THE DEVELOPMENT

OF THE

EUROPEAN NATIONS

1870-1914

BY

J. HOLLAND ROSE LITT.D.

FELLOW OF CHRIST'S COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE AUTHOR OF 'THE LIFE OF NAPOLEON,' 'THE LIFE OF WILLIAM
PITT,' 'THE ORIGINS OF THE WAR,' ETC.

     'Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas.'--VIRGIL.

FIFTH EDITION, WITH A NEW PREFACE AND THREE SUPPLEMENTARY CHAPTERS

1915

First Edition . .  October 1905.
   Second  "   . . November 1905.
   Third   "   . . December 1911.
   Fourth  "   . . November 1914.
   Fifth   "   . .  October 1915.

TO

MY WIFE

WITHOUT WHOSE HELP

THIS WORK

COULD NOT HAVE BEEN COMPLETED

PREFACE TO THE FIFTH EDITION

In this Edition are included three new chapters (Nos. XXI.-XXIII.), in which I seek to describe
the most important and best-ascertained facts of the period 1900-14. Necessarily, the narrative
is tentative at many points; and it is impossible to attain impartiality; but I have sought
to view events from the German as well as the British standpoint, and to sum up the evidence
fairly. The addition of these chapters has necessitated the omission of the former Epilogue
and Appendices. I regret the sacrifice of the Epilogue, for it emphasised two important considerations,
(1) the tendency of British foreign policy towards undue complaisance, which by other Powers
is often interpreted as weakness; (2) the danger arising from the keen competition in armaments.
No one can review recent events without perceiving the significance of these considerations.
Perhaps they may prove to be among the chief causes producing the terrible finale of July-August
1914. I desire to express my acknowledgments and thanks for valuable advice given by Mr. J.W.
Headlam, M.A., Mr. A.B. Hinds, M.A., and Dr. R.W. Seton-Watson, D. Litt.

J.H.R.

CAMBRIDGE,

September 5, 1915.

PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION

The outbreak of war in Europe is an event too momentous to be treated fully in this Preface.
But I may point out that the catastrophe resulted from the two causes of unrest described in
this volume, namely, the Alsace-Lorraine Question and the Eastern Question. Those disputes
have dragged on without any attempt at settlement by the Great Powers. The Zabern incident
inflamed public opinion in Alsace-Lorraine, and illustrated the overbearing demeanour of the
German military caste; while the insidious attempts of Austria in 1913 to incite Bulgaria against
Servia marked out the Hapsburg Empire as the chief enemy of the Slav peoples of the Balkan
Peninsula after the collapse of Turkish power in 1912. The internal troubles of the United
Kingdom, France, and Russia in July 1914 furnished the opportunity so long sought by the forward
party at Berlin and Vienna; and the Austro-German Alliance, which, in its origin, was defensive
(as I have shown in this volume), became offensive, Italy parting from her allies when she
discovered their designs. Drawn into the Triple Alliance solely by pique against France after
the Tunis affair, she now inclines towards the Anglo-French connection.

Readers of my chapter on the Eastern Question will not fail to see how the neglect of the Balkan
peoples by the Great Powers has left that wound festering in the weak side of Europe; and they
will surmise that the Balkan troubles have, by a natural Nemesis, played their part in bringing
about the European War. It is for students of modern Europe to seek to form a healthy public
opinion so that the errors of the past may not be repeated, and that the new Europe shall be
constituted in conformity with the aspirations of the peoples themselves.

CAMBRIDGE,

September 25, 1914.

PREFACE

The line of Virgil quoted on the title-page represents in the present case a sigh of aspiration,
not a paean of achievement. No historical student, surely, can ever feel the conviction that
he has fathomed the depths of that well where Truth is said to lie hid. What, then, must be
the feelings of one who ventures into the mazy domain of recent annals, and essays to pick
his way through thickets all but untrodden? More than once I have been tempted to give up the
quest and turn aside to paths where pioneers have cleared the way. There, at least, the whereabouts
of that fabulous well is known and the plummet is ready to hand. Nevertheless, I resolved to
struggle through with my task, in the consciousness that the work of a pioneer may be helpful,
provided that he carefully notches the track and thereby enables those who come after him to
know what to seek and what to avoid.

After all, there is no lack of guides in the present age. The number of memoir-writers and
newspaper correspondents is legion; and I have come to believe that they are fully as trustworthy
as similar witnesses have been in any age. The very keenness of their rivalry is some guarantee
for truth. Doubtless competition for good "copy" occasionally leads to artful embroidering
on humdrum actuality; but, after spending much time in scanning similar embroidery in the literature
of the Napoleonic Era, I unhesitatingly place the work of Archibald Forbes, and that of several
knights of the pen still living, far above the delusive tinsel of Marbot, Thiébault, and Ségur.
I will go further and say that, if we could find out what were the sources used by Thucydides,
we should notice qualms of misgiving shoot through the circles of scientific historians as
they contemplated his majestic work. In any case, I may appeal to the example of the great
Athenian in support of the thesis that to undertake to write contemporary history is no vain thing.

Above and beyond the accounts of memoir-writers and newspaper correspondents there are Blue
Books. I am well aware that they do not always contain the whole truth. Sometimes the most
important items are of necessity omitted. But the information which they contain is enormous;
and, seeing that the rules of the public service keep the original records in Great Britain
closed for well-nigh a century, only the most fastidious can object to the use of the wealth
of materials given to the world in Parliamentary Papers.

Besides these published sources there is the fund of information possessed by public men and
the "well-informed" of various grades. Unfortunately this is rarely accessible, or only under
conventional restrictions. Here and there I have been able to make use of it without any breach
of trust; and to those who have enlightened my darkness I am very grateful. The illumination,
I know, is only partial; but I hope that its effect, in respect to the twilight of diplomacy,
may be compared to that of the Aurora Borealis lights.

After working at my subject for some time, I found it desirable to limit it to events which
had a distinctly formative influence on the development of European States. On questions of
motive and policy I have generally refrained from expressing a decided verdict, seeing that
these are always the most difficult to probe; and facile dogmatism on them is better fitted
to omniscient leaderettes than to the pages of an historical work. At the same time, I have
not hesitated to pronounce a judgment on these questions, and to differ from other writers,
where the evidence has seemed to me decisive. To quote one instance, I reject the verdict of
most authorities on the question of Bismarck's treatment of the Ems telegram, and of its effect
in the negotiations with France in July 1870.

For the most part, however, I have dealt only with external events, pointing out now and again
the part which they have played in the great drama of human action still going on around us.
This limitation of aim has enabled me to take only specific topics, and to treat them far more
fully than is done in the brief chronicle of facts presented by MM. Lavisse and Rambaud in
the concluding volume of their Histoire Générale. Where a series of events began in the year
1899 or 1900, and did not conclude before the time with which this narrative closes, I have
left it on one side. Obviously the Boer War falls under this head. Owing to lack of space my
references to the domestic concerns of the United Kingdom have been brief. I have regretfully
omitted one imperial event of great importance, the formation of the Australian Commonwealth.
After all, that concerned only the British race; and in my survey of the affairs of the Empire
I have treated only those which directly affected other nations as well, namely the Afghan
and Egyptian questions and the Partition of Africa. Here I have sought to show the connection
with "world politics," and I trust that even specialists will find something new and suggestive
in this method of treatment.

In attempting to write a history of contemporary affairs, I regard it as essential to refer
to the original authority, or authorities, in the case of every important statement. I have
sought to carry out this rule (though at the cost of great additional toil) because it enables
the reader to check the accuracy of the narrative and to gain hints for further reading. To
compile bibliographies, where many new books are coming out every year, is a useless task;
but exact references to the sources of information never lose their value.

My thanks are due to many who have helped me in this undertaking. Among them I may name Sir
Charles Dilke, M.P., Mr. James Bryce, M.P., and Mr. Chedo Mijatovich, who have given me valuable
advice on special topics. My obligations are also due to a subject of the Czar, who has placed
his knowledge at my service, but for obvious reasons does not wish his name to be known. Mr.
Bernard Pares, M.A., of the University of Liverpool, has very kindly read over the proofs of
the early chapters, and has offered most helpful suggestions. Messrs. G. Bell and Sons have
granted me permission to make use of the plans of the chief battles of the Franco-German War
from Mr. Hooper's work, Sedan and the Downfall of the Second Empire, published by them. To
Mr. H.W. Wilson, author of Ironclads in Action, my thanks are also due for permission to make
use of the plan illustrating the fighting at Alexandria in 1882.

J.H.R.

July, 1905.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER I THE CAUSES OF THE FRANCO-GERMAN WAR.

CHAPTER II FROM WÖRTH TO GRAVELOTTE

CHAPTER III SEDAN

CHAPTER IV THE FOUNDING OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC

CHAPTER V THE FOUNDING OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC--continued

CHAPTER VI THE GERMAN EMPIRE

CHAPTER VII THE EASTERN QUESTION

CHAPTER VIII THE RUSSO-TURKISH WAR

CHAPTER IX THE BALKAN SETTLEMENT

CHAPTER X THE MAKING OF BULGARIA

CHAPTER XI NIHILISM AND ABSOLUTISM IN RUSSIA

CHAPTER XII THE TRIPLE AND DUAL ALLIANCES

CHAPTER XIII THE CENTRAL ASIAN QUESTION

CHAPTER XIV THE AFGHAN AND TURKOMAN CAMPAIGNS

CHAPTER XV BRITAIN IN EGYPT

CHAPTER XVI GORDON AND THE SUDAN

CHAPTER XVII THE CONQUEST OF THE SUDAN

CHAPTER XVIII THE PARTITION OF AFRICA

CHAPTER XIX THE CONGO FREE STATE

CHAPTER XX RUSSIA IN THE FAR EAST

CHAPTER XXI THE NEW GROUPING OF THE GREAT POWERS (1900-1907)

CHAPTER XXII TEUTON versus SLAV (1908-13)

CHAPTER XXIII THE CRISIS OF 1914

INDEX

MAPS AND PLANS

Campaigns of 1859-71

Sketch Map of the District between Metz and the Rhine

Plan of the Battle of Wörth

Plan of the Battles of Rezonville and Gravelotte

Plan of the Battle of Sedan

Map of Bulgaria

Plan of Plevna

Map of the Treaties of Berlin and San Stefano

Map of Thessaly

Map of Afghanistan

Battle of Maiwand

Battle of Alexandria (Bombardment of, 1882)

Map of the Nile

The Battle of Omdurman

Plan of Khartum

Map of Africa (1902)

INTRODUCTION

     "The movements in the masses of European peoples are divided
     and slow, and their progress interrupted and impeded, because
     they are such great and unequally formed masses; but the
     preparation for the future is widely diffused, and . . . the
     promises of the age are so great that even the most
     faint-hearted rouse themselves to the belief that a time has
     arrived in which it is a privilege to live."--GERVINUS, 1853.

The Roman poet Lucretius in an oft-quoted passage describes the satisfaction that naturally
fills the mind when from some safe vantage-ground one looks forth on travellers tossed about
on the stormy deep. We may perhaps use the poet's not very altruistic words as symbolising
many of the feelings with which, at the dawn of the twentieth century, we look back over the
stormy waters of the century that has passed away. Some congratulation on this score is justifiable,
especially as those wars and revolutions have served to build up States that are far stronger
than their predecessors, in proportion as they correspond more nearly with the desires of the
nations that compose them.

As we gaze at the revolutions and wars that form the storm-centres of the past century, we
can now see some of the causes that brought about those storms. If we survey them with discerning
eye, we soon begin to see that, in the main, the cyclonic disturbances had their origins in
two great natural impulses of the civilised races of mankind. The first of these forces is
that great impulse towards individual liberty, which we name Democracy; the second is that
impulse, scarcely less mighty and elemental, that prompts men to effect a close union with
their kith and kin: this we may term Nationality.

Now, it is true that these two forces have not led up to the last and crowning phase of human
development, as their enthusiastic champions at one time asserted that they would; far from
that, they are accountable, especially so the force of Nationality, for numerous defects in
the life of the several peoples; and the national principle is at this very time producing
great and needless friction in the dealings of nations. Yet, granting all this, it still remains
true that Democracy and Nationality have been the two chief formative influences in the political
development of Europe during the Nineteenth Century.

In no age of the world's history have these two impulses worked with so triumphant an activity.
They have not always been endowed with living force. Among many peoples they lay dormant for
ages and were only called to life by some great event, such as the intolerable oppression of
a despot or of a governing caste that crushed the liberties of the individual, or the domination
of an alien people over one that obstinately refused to be assimilated. Sometimes the spark
that kindled vital consciousness was the flash of a poet's genius, or the heroism of some sturdy
son of the soil. The causes of awakening have been infinitely various, and have never wholly
died away; but it is the special glory of the Nineteenth Century that races which had hitherto
lain helpless and well-nigh dead, rose to manhood as if by magic, and shed their blood like
water in the effort to secure a free and unfettered existence both for the individual and the
nation. It is a true saying of the German historian, Gervinus, "The history of this age will
no longer be only a relation of the lives of great men and of princes, but a biography of nations."

At first sight, this illuminating statement seems to leave out of count the career of the mighty
Napoleon. But it does not. The great Emperor unconsciously called into vigorous life the forces
of Democracy and Nationality both in Germany and in Italy, where there had been naught but
servility and disunion. His career, if viewed from our present standpoint, falls into two portions:
first, that in which he figured as the champion of Revolutionary France and the liberator of
Italy from foreign and domestic tyrants; and secondly, as imperial autocrat who conquered and
held down a great part of Europe in his attempt to ruin British commerce. In the former of
these enterprises he had the new forces of the age acting with him and endowing him with seemingly
resistless might; in the latter part of his life he mistook his place in the economy of Nature,
and by his violation of the principles of individual liberty and racial kinship in Spain and
Central Europe, assured his own downfall.

The greatest battle of the century was the tremendous strife that for three days surged to
and fro around Leipzig in the month of October 1813, when Russians, Prussians, Austrians, Swedes,
together with a few Britons, Hanoverians, and finally his own Saxon allies, combined to shake
the imperial yoke from the neck of the Germanic peoples. This Völkerschlacht (Battle of the
Peoples), as the Germans term it, decided that the future of Europe was not to be moulded by
the imperial autocrat, but by the will of the princes and nations whom his obstinacy had embattled
against him. Far from recognising the verdict, the great man struggled on until the pertinacity
of the allies finally drove him from power and assigned to France practically the same boundaries
that she had had in 1791, before the time of her mighty expansion. That is to say, the nation
which in its purely democratic form had easily overrun and subdued the neighbouring States
in the time of their old, inert, semi-feudal existence, was overthrown by them when their national
consciousness had been trampled into being by the legions of the great Emperor.

In 1814, and again after Waterloo, France was driven in on herself, and resumed something like
her old position in Europe, save that the throne of the Bourbons never acquired any solidity--the
older branch of that family being unseated by the Revolution of 1830. In the centre of the
Continent, the old dynasties had made common cause with the peoples in the national struggles
of 1813-14, and therefore enjoyed more consideration--a fact which enabled them for a time
to repress popular aspirations for constitutional rule and national unity.

Nevertheless, by the Treaties of Vienna (1814-15) the centre of Europe was more solidly organised
than ever before. In place of the effete institution known as the Holy Roman Empire, which
Napoleon swept away in 1806, the Central States were reorganised in the German Confederation--a
cumbrous and ineffective league in which Austria held the presidency. Austria also gained Venetia
and Lombardy in Italy. The acquisition of the fertile Rhine Province by Prussia brought that
vigorous State up to the bounds of Lorraine and made her the natural protectress of Germany
against France. Russia acquired complete control over nearly the whole of the former Kingdom
of Poland. Thus, the Powers that had been foremost in the struggle against Napoleon now gained
most largely in the redistribution of lands in 1814-15, while the States that had been friendly
to him now suffered for their devotion. Italy was split up into a mosaic of States; Saxony
ceded nearly the half of her lands to Prussia; Denmark yielded up her ancient possession, Norway,
to the Swedish Crown.

In some respects the triumph of the national principle, which had brought victory to the old
dynasties, strengthened the European fabric. The Treaties of Vienna brought the boundaries
of States more nearly into accord with racial interests and sentiments than had been the case
before; but in several instances those interests and feelings were chafed or violated by designing
or short-sighted statesmen. The Germans, who had longed for an effective national union, saw
with indignation that the constitution of the new Germanic Confederation left them under the
control of the rulers of the component States and of the very real headship exercised by Austria,
which was always used to repress popular movements. The Italians, who had also learned from
Napoleon the secret that they were in all essentials a nation, deeply resented the domination
of Austria in Lombardy-Venetia and the parcelling out of the rest of the Peninsula between
reactionary kings somnolent dukes, and obscurantist clerics. The Belgians likewise protested
against the enforced union with Holland in what was now called the Kingdom of the United Netherlands
(1815-30). In the east of Europe the Poles struggled in vain against the fate which once more
partitioned them between Russia, Austria, and Prussia. The Germans of Holstein, Schleswig,
and Lauenburg submitted uneasily to the Danish rule; and only under the stress of demonstrations
by the allies did the Norwegians accept the union with Sweden.

It should be carefully noted that these were the very cases which caused most of the political
troubles in the following period. In fact, most of the political occurrences on the Continent
in the years 1815 to 1870--the revolts, revolutions, and wars, that give a special character
to the history of the century--resulted directly from the bad or imperfect arrangements of
the Congress of Vienna and of the so-called Holy Alliance of the monarchs who sought to perpetuate
them. The effect of this widespread discontent was not felt at once. The peoples were too exhausted
by the terrific strain of the Napoleonic wars to do much for a generation or more, save in
times of popular excitement. Except in the south-east of Europe, where Greece, with the aid
of Russia, Britain, and France, wrested her political independence from the grasp of the Sultan
(1827), the forty years that succeeded Waterloo were broken by no important war; but they were
marked by oft-recurring unrest and sedition. Thus, when the French Revolution of 1830 overthrew
the reactionary dynasty of the elder Bourbons, the universal excitement caused by this event
endowed the Belgians with strength sufficient to shake off the heavy yoke of the Dutch; while
in Italy, Germany, and Poland the democrats and nationalists (now working generally in accord)
made valiant but unsuccessful efforts to achieve their ideals.

The same was the case in 1848. The excitement, which this time originated in Italy, spread
to France, overthrew the throne of Louis Philippe (of the younger branch of the French Bourbons),
and bade fair to roll half of the crowns of Europe into the gutter. But these spasmodic efforts
of the democrats speedily failed. Inexperience, disunion, and jealousy paralysed their actions
and yielded the victory to the old Governments. Frenchmen, in dismay at the seeming approach
of communism and anarchy, fell back upon the odd expedient of a Napoleonic Republic, which
in 1852 was easily changed by Louis Napoleon into an Empire modelled on that of his far greater
uncle. The democrats of Germany achieved some startling successes over their repressive Governments
in the spring of the year 1848, only to find that they could not devise a working constitution
for the Fatherland; and the deputies who met at the federal capital, Frankfurt, to unify Germany
"by speechifying and majorities," saw power slip back little by little into the hands of the
monarchs and princes. In the Austrian Empire nationalist claims and strivings led to a very
Babel of discordant talk and action, amidst which the young Hapsburg ruler, Francis Joseph,
thanks to Russian military aid, was able to triumph over the valour of the Hungarians and the
devotion of their champion, Kossuth.

In Italy the same sad tale was told. In the spring of that year of revolutions, 1848, the rulers
in quick succession granted constitutions to their subjects. The reforming Pope, Pius IX.,
and the patriotic King of Sardinia, Charles Albert, also made common cause with their peoples
in the effort to drive out the Austrians from Lombardy-Venetia; but the Pope and all the potentates
except Charles Albert speedily deserted the popular cause; friction between the King and the
republican leaders, Mazzini and Garibaldi, further weakened the nationalists, and the Austrians
had little difficulty in crushing Charles Albert's forces, whereupon he abdicated in favour
of his son, Victor Emmanuel II. (1849). The Republics set up at Rome and Venice struggled valiantly
for a time against great odds--Mazzini, Garibaldi, and their volunteers being finally overborne
at the Eternal City by the French troops whom Louis Napoleon sent to restore the Pope (June
1849); while, two months later, Venice surrendered to the Austrians whom she had long held
at bay. The Queen of the Adriatic under the inspiring dictatorship of Manin had given a remarkable
example of orderly constitutional government in time of siege.

It seemed to be the lot of the nationalists and democrats to produce leaders who could thrill
the imagination of men by lofty teachings and sublime heroism; who could, in a word, achieve
everything but success. A poetess, who looked forth from Casa Guidi windows upon the tragi-comedy
of Florentine failure in those years, wrote that what was needed was a firmer union, a more
practical and intelligent activity, on the part both of the people and of the future leader:

                   A land's brotherhood
     Is most puissant: men, upon the whole,
       Are what they can be,--nations, what they would.

     Will therefore to be strong, thou Italy!
       Will to be noble! Austrian Metternich
     Can fix no yoke unless the neck agree.

       *       *       *       *       *

       Whatever hand shall grasp this oriflamme,
     Whatever man (last peasant or first Pope
       Seeking to free his country) shall appear,
     Teach, lead, strike fire into the masses, fill
       These empty bladders with fine air, insphere
     These wills into a unity of will,
       And make of Italy a nation--dear
     And blessed be that man!

When Elizabeth Barrett Browning penned those lines she cannot have surmised that two men were
working their way up the rungs of the political ladder in Piedmont and Prussia, whose keen
intellects and masterful wills were to weld their Fatherlands into indissoluble union within
the space of one momentous decade. These men were Cavour and Bismarck.

It would far exceed the limits of space of this brief Introduction to tell, except in the briefest
outline, the story of the plodding preparation and far-seeing diplomacy by which these statesmen
raised their respective countries from depths of humiliation to undreamt of heights of triumph.
The first thing was to restore the prestige of their States. No people can be strong in action
that has lost belief in its own powers and has allowed its neighbours openly to flout it. The
history of the world has shown again and again that politicians who allow their country to
be regarded as une quantité négligeable bequeath to some abler successor a heritage of struggle
and war--struggle for the nation to recover its self-respect, and war to regain consideration
and fair treatment from others. However much frothy talkers in their clubs may decry the claims
of national prestige, no great statesman has ever underrated their importance. Certainly the
first aim both of Cavour and Bismarck was to restore self-respect and confidence to their States
after the humiliations and the dreary isolation of those dark years, 1848-51. We will glance,
first, at the resurrection (Risorgimento) of the little Kingdom of Sardinia, which was destined
to unify Italy.

Charles Albert's abdication immediately after his defeat by the Austrians left no alternative
to his son and successor, Victor Emmanuel II., but that of signing a disastrous peace with
Austria. In a short time the stout-hearted young King called to his councils Count Cavour,
the second son of a noble Piedmontese family, but of firmly Liberal principles, who resolved
to make the little kingdom the centre of enlightenment and hope for despairing Italy. He strengthened
the constitution (the only one out of many granted in 1848 that survived the time of reaction);
he reformed the tariff in the direction of Free Trade; and during the course of the Crimean
War he persuaded his sovereign to make an active alliance with France and England, so as to
bind them by all the claims of honour to help Sardinia in the future against Austria. The occasion
was most opportune; for Austria was then suspected and disliked both by Russia and the Western
Powers owing to her policy of armed neutrality. Nevertheless the reward of Cavour's diplomacy
came slowly and incompletely. By skilfully vague promises (never reduced to writing) Cavour
induced Napoleon III. to take up arms against Austria; but, after the great victory of Solferino
(June 24, 1859), the French Emperor enraged the Italians by breaking off the struggle before
the allies recovered the great province of Venetia, which he had pledged himself to do. Worse
still, he required the cession of Savoy and Nice to France, if the Central Duchies and the
northern part of the Papal States joined the Kingdom of Sardinia, as they now did. Thus, the
net result of Napoleon's intervention in Italy was his acquisition of Savoy and Nice (at the
price of Italian hatred), and the gain of Lombardy and the central districts for the national
cause (1859-60).

The agony of mind caused by this comparative failure undermined Cavour's health; but in the
last months of his life he helped to impel and guide the revolutionary elements in Italy to
an enterprise that ended in a startling and momentous triumph. This was nothing less than the
overthrow of Bourbon rule in Sicily and Southern Italy by Garibaldi. Thanks to Cavour's connivance,
this dashing republican organised an expedition of about 1000 volunteers near Genoa, set sail
for Sicily, and by a few blows shivered the chains of tyranny in that island. It is noteworthy
that British war-ships lent him covert but most important help at Palermo and again in his
crossing to the mainland; this timely aid and the presence of a band of Britons in his ranks
laid the foundation of that friendship which has ever since united the two nations. In Calabria
the hero met with the feeblest resistance from the Bourbon troops and the wildest of welcomes
from the populace. At Salerno he took tickets for Naples and entered the enemy's capital by
railway train (September 7). Then he purposed, after routing the Bourbon force north of the
city, to go on and attack the French at Rome and proclaim a united Italy.

Cavour took care that he should do no such thing. The Piedmontese statesman knew when to march
onwards and when to halt. As his compatriot, Manzoni, said of him, "Cavour has all the prudence
and all the imprudence of the true statesman." He had dared and won in 1855-59, and again in
secretly encouraging Garibaldi's venture. Now it was time to stop in order to consolidate the
gains to the national cause.

The leader of the red-shirts, having done what no king could do, was thenceforth to be controlled
by the monarchy of the north. Victor Emmanuel came in as the deus ex machina; his troops pressed
southwards, occupying the eastern part of the Papal States in their march, and joined hands
with the Garibaldians to the north of Naples, thus preventing the collision with France which
the irregulars would have brought about. Even as it was, Cavour had hard work to persuade Napoleon
that this was the only way of curbing Garibaldi and preventing the erection of a South Italian
Republic; but finally the French Emperor looked on uneasily while the Pope's eastern territories
were violated, and while the cause of Italian Unity was assured at the expense of the Pontiff
whom France was officially supporting in Rome. A plébiscite, or mass vote, of the people of
Sicily, South Italy, and the eastern and central parts of the Papal States, was resorted to
by Cavour in order to throw a cloak of legality over these irregular proceedings. The device
pleased Napoleon, and it resulted in an overwhelming vote in favour of annexation to Victor
Emmanuel's kingdom. Thus, in March 1861, the soldier-king was able amidst universal acclaim
to take the title of King of Italy. Florence was declared to be the capital of the realm (1864),
which embraced all parts of Italy except the Province of Venetia, pertaining to Austria, and
the "Patrimonium Petri"--that is, Rome and its vicinity,--still held by the Pope and garrisoned
by the French. The former of these was to be regained for la patria in 1866, the latter in
1870, in consequence of the mighty triumphs then achieved by the principle of nationality in
Prussia and Germany. To these triumphs we must now briefly advert.

No one who looked at the state of European politics in 1861, could have imagined that in less
than ten years Prussia would have waged three wars and humbled the might of Austria and France.
At that time she showed no signs of exceptional vigour: she had as yet produced no leaders
so inspiring as Mazzini and Garibaldi, no statesman so able as Cavour. Her new king, William,
far from arousing the feelings of growing enthusiasm that centred in Victor Emmanuel, was more
and more distrusted and disliked by Liberals for the policy of militarism on which he had just
embarked. In fact, the Hohenzollern dynasty was passing into a "Conflict Time" with its Parliament
which threatened to impair the influence of Prussia abroad and to retard her recovery from
the period of humiliations through which she had recently passed.

A brief recital of those humiliations is desirable as showing, firstly, the suddenness with
which the affairs of a nation may go to ruin in slack and unskilful hands, and, secondly, the
immense results that can be achieved in a few years by a small band of able men who throw their
whole heart into the work of national regeneration.

The previous ruler, Frederick William IV., was a gifted and learned man, but he lacked soundness
of judgment and strength of will--qualities which are of more worth in governing than graces
of the intellect. At the time of the revolutionary outbreaks of 1848 he capitulated to the
Berlin mob and declared for a constitutional régime in which Prussia should merge herself in
Germany; but when the excesses of the democrats had weakened their authority, he put them down
by military force, refused the German Crown offered him by the popularly elected German Parliament
assembled at Frankfurt-on-Main (April 1849); and thereupon attempted to form a smaller union
of States, namely, Prussia, Saxony, and Hanover. This Three Kings' League, as it was called,
soon came to an end; for it did not satisfy the nationalists who wished to see Germany united,
the constitutionalists who aimed at the supremacy of Parliament, or the friends of the old
order of things. The vacillations of Frederick William and the unpractical theorisings of the
German Parliament at Frankfurt having aroused general disgust, Austria found little difficulty
in restoring the power of the old Germanic Confederation in September, 1850. Strong in her
alliance with Russia, she next compelled Frederick William to sign the Convention of Olmütz
(Nov. 1850). By this humiliating compact he agreed to forbear helping the German nationalists
in Schleswig-Holstein to shake off the oppressive rule of the Danes; to withdraw Prussian troops
from Hesse-Cassel and Baden, where strifes had broken out; and to acknowledge the supremacy
of the old Federal Diet under the headship of Austria. Thus, it seemed that the Prussian monarchy
was a source of weakness and disunion for North Germany, and that Austria, backed up by the
might of Russia, must long continue to lord it over the cumbrous Germanic Confederation.

But a young country squire, named Bismarck, even then resolved that the Prussian monarchy should
be the means of strengthening and binding together the Fatherland. The resolve bespoke the
patriotism of a sturdy, hopeful nature; and the young Bismarck was nothing if not patriotic,
sturdy, and hopeful. The son of an ancient family in the Mark of Brandenburg, he brought to
his life-work powers inherited from a line of fighting ancestors; and his mind was no less
robust than his body. Quick at mastering a mass of details, he soon saw into the heart of a
problem, and his solution of it was marked both by unfailing skill and by sound common sense
as to the choice of men and means. In some respects he resembles Napoleon the Great. Granted
that he was his inferior in the width of vision and the versatility of gifts that mark a world-genius,
yet he was his equal in diplomatic resourcefulness and in the power of dealing lightning strokes;
while his possession of the priceless gift of moderation endowed his greatest political achievements
with a soundness and solidity never possessed by those of the mighty conqueror who "sought
to give the mot d'ordre to the universe." If the figure of the Prussian does not loom so large
on the canvas of universal history as that of the Corsican--if he did not tame a Revolution,
remodel society, and reorganise a Continent--be it remembered that he made a United Germany,
while Napoleon the Great left France smaller and weaker than he found her.

Bismarck's first efforts, like those of Cavour for Sardinia, were directed to the task of restoring
the prestige of his State. Early in his official career, the Prussian patriot urged the expediency
of befriending Russia during the Crimean War, and he thus helped on that rapprochement between
Berlin and St. Petersburg which brought the mighty triumphs of 1866 and 1870 within the range
of possibility. In 1857 Frederick William became insane; and his brother William took the reins
of Government as Regent, and early in 1861 as King. The new ruler was less gifted than his
unfortunate brother; but his homely common sense and tenacious will strengthened Prussian policy
where it had been weakest. He soon saw the worth of Bismarck, employed him in high diplomatic
positions, and when the royal proposals for strengthening the army were decisively rejected
by the Prussian House of Representatives, he speedily sent for Bismarck to act as Minister-President
(Prime Minister) and "tame" the refractory Parliament. The constitutional crisis was becoming
more and more acute when a great national question came into prominence owing to the action
of the Danes in Schleswig-Holstein affairs.

Without entering into the very tangled web of customs, treaties, and dynastic claims that made
up the Schleswig-Holstein question, we may here state that those Duchies were by ancient law
very closely connected together, that the King of Denmark was only Duke of Schleswig-Holstein,
and that the latter duchy, wholly German in population, formed part of the Germanic Confederation.
Latterly the fervent nationalists in Denmark, while leaving Holstein to its German connections,
had resolved thoroughly to "Danify" Schleswig, the northern half of which was wholly Danish,
and they pressed on this policy by harsh and intolerant measures, making it difficult or well-nigh
impossible for the Germans to have public worship in their own tongue and to secure German
teachers for their children in the schools. Matters were already in a very strained state,
when shortly before the death of King Frederick VII. of Denmark (November, 1863) the Rigsraad
at Copenhagen sanctioned a constitution for Schleswig, which would practically have made it
a part of the Danish monarchy. The King gave his assent to it, an act which his successor,
Christian IX., ratified.

Now, this action violated the last treaty--that signed by the Powers at London in 1852, which
settled the affairs of the Duchies; and Bismarck therefore had strong ground for appealing
to the Powers concerned, as also to the German Confederation, against this breach of treaty
obligations. The Powers, especially England and France, sought to set things straight, but
the efforts of our Foreign Minister, Lord John Russell, had no effect. The German Confederation
also refused to take any steps about Schleswig as being outside its jurisdiction. Bismarck
next persuaded Austria to help Prussia in defeating Danish designs on that duchy. The Danes,
on the other hand, counted on the unofficial expressions of sympathy which came from the people
of Great Britain and France at sight of a small State menaced by two powerful monarchies. In
fact, the whole situation was complicated by this explosion of feeling, which seemed to the
Danes to portend the armed intervention of the Western States, especially England, on their
behalf. As far as is known, no official assurance to that effect ever went forth from London.
In fact, it is certain that Queen Victoria absolutely forbade any such step; but the mischief
done by sentimental orators, heedless newspaper-editors, and factious busybodies, could not
be undone. As Lord John Russell afterwards stated in a short "Essay on the Policy of England":
"It pleased some English advisers of great influence to meddle in this affair; they were successful
in thwarting the British Government, and in the end, with the professed view, and perhaps the
real intention, of helping Denmark, their friendship tended to deprive her of Holstein and
Schleswig altogether." This final judgment of a veteran statesman is worth quoting as showing
his sense of the mischief done by well-meant but misguided sympathy, which pushed the Danes
on to ruin and embittered our relations with Prussia for many years.

Not that the conduct of the German Powers was flawless. On January 16, 1864, they sent to Copenhagen
a demand for the withdrawal of the constitution for Schleswig within two days. The Danish Foreign
Minister pointed out that, as the Rigsraad was not in session, this could not possibly be done
within two days. In this last step, then, the German Powers were undoubtedly the aggressors[1].
The Prussian troops were ready near the River Eider, and at once invaded Schleswig. The Danes
were soon beaten on the mainland; then a pause occurred, during which a Conference of the Powers
concerned was held at London. It has been proved by the German historian, von Sybel, that the
first serious suggestion to Prussia that she should take both the Duchies came secretly from
Napoleon III. It was in vain that Lord John Russell suggested a sensible compromise, namely,
the partition of Schleswig between Denmark and Germany according to the language-frontier inside
the Duchy. To this the belligerents demurred on points of detail, the Prussian representative
asserting that he would not leave a single German under Danish rule. The war was therefore
resumed, and ended in a complete defeat for the weaker State, which finally surrendered both
Duchies to Austria and Prussia (1864)[2].

[1] Lord Wodehouse (afterwards Earl of Kimberley) was at that time sent on a special mission
to Copenhagen. When his official correspondence is published, it will probably throw light
on many points.

[2] Sybel, Die Begründung des deutschen Reiches, vol. iii. pp. 299-344; Débidour, Hist. diplomatique
de l'Europe, vol. ii. pp. 261-273; Lowe, Life of Bismarck, vol. i. chap. vi.; Headlam, Bismarck,
chap. viii.; Lord Malmesbury, Memoirs of an ex-Minister pp. 584-593 (small edition); Spencer
Walpole, Life of Lord J. Russell, vol. ii. pp. 396-411.

In several respects the cause of ruin to Denmark in 1863-64 bears a remarkable resemblance
to that which produced war in South Africa in 1899, viz. high-handed action of a minority towards
men whom they treated as Outlanders, the stiff-necked obstinacy of the smaller State, and reliance
on the vehement but (probably) unofficial offers of help or intervention by other nations.

The question of the sharing of the Duchies now formed one of the causes of the far greater
war between the victors; but, in truth, it was only part of the much larger question, which
had agitated Germany for centuries, whether the balance of power should belong to the North
or the South. Bismarck also saw that the time was nearly ripe for settling this matter once
for all in favour of Prussia; but he had hard work even to persuade his own sovereign; while
the Prussian Parliament, as well as public opinion throughout Germany, was violently hostile
to his schemes and favoured the claims of the young Duke of Augustenburg to the Duchies--claims
that had much show of right. Matters were patched up for a time between the two German States,
by the Convention of Gastein (August 1865), while in reality each prepared for war and sought
to gain allies.

Here again Bismarck was successful. After vainly seeking to buy Venetia from the Austrian Court,
Italy agreed to side with Prussia against that Power in order to wrest by force a province
which she could not hope to gain peaceably. Russia, too, was friendly to the Court of Berlin,
owing to the help which the latter had given her in crushing the formidable revolt of the Poles
in 1863. It remained to keep France quiet. In this Bismarck thought he had succeeded by means
of interviews which he held with Napoleon III. at Biarritz (Nov. 1865). What there occurred
is not clearly known. That Bismarck played on the Emperor's foible for oppressed nationalities,
in the case of Italy, is fairly certain; that he fed him with hopes of gaining Belgium, or
a slice of German land, is highly probable, and none the less so because he later on indignantly
denied in the Reichstag that he ever "held out the prospect to anybody of ceding a single German
village, or even as much as a clover-field." In any case Napoleon seems to have promised to
observe neutrality--not because he loved Prussia, but because he expected the German Powers
to wear one another out and thus leave him master of the situation. In common with most of
the wiseacres of those days he believed that Prussia and Italy would ultimately fall before
the combined weight of Austria and of the German States, which closely followed her in the
Confederation; whereupon he could step in and dictate his own terms[3].

[3] Busch, Our Chancellor, vol. ii. p. 17 (Eng. edit.); Débidour, Histoire diplomatique de
l'Europe (1814-1878), vol ii. pp. 291-293. Lord Loftus in his Diplomatic Reminiscences (vol.
ii. p. 280) says: "So satisfied was Bismarck that he could count on the neutrality of France,
that no defensive military measures were taken on the Rhine and western frontier. He had no
fears of Russia on the eastern frontier, and was therefore able to concentrate the military
might of Prussia against Austria and her South German Allies."

Light has been thrown on the bargainings between Italy and Prussia by the Memoirs of General
Govone, who found Bismarck a hard bargainer.

Bismarck and the leaders of the Prussian army had few doubts as to the result. They were determined
to force on the war, and early in June 1866 brought forward proposals at the Frankfurt Diet
for the "reform" of the German Confederation, the chief of them being the exclusion of Austria,
the establishment of a German Parliament elected by manhood suffrage, and the formation of
a North German army commanded by the King of Prussia.

A great majority of the Federal Diet rejected these proposals, and war speedily broke out,
Austria being supported by nearly all the German States except the two Mecklenburgs.

The weight of numbers was against Prussia, even though she had the help of the Italians operating
against Venetia. On that side Austria was completely successful, as also in a sea-fight near
Lissa in the Adriatic; but in the north the Hapsburgs and their German allies soon found out
that organisation, armament, and genius count for more than numbers. The great organiser, von
Roon, had brought Prussia's citizen army to a degree of efficiency that surprised every one;
and the quick-firing "needle-gun" dealt havoc and terror among the enemy. Using to the full
the advantage of her central position against the German States, Prussia speedily worsted their
isolated and badly-handled forces, while her chief armies overthrew those of Austria and Saxony
in Bohemia. The Austrian plan of campaign had been to invade Prussia by two armies--a comparatively
small force advancing from Cracow as a base into Silesia, while another, acting from Olmütz,
advanced through Bohemia to join the Saxons and march on Berlin, some 50,000 Bavarians joining
them in Bohemia for the same enterprise. This design speedily broke down owing to the short-sighted
timidity of the Bavarian Government, which refused to let its forces leave their own territory;
the lack of railway facilities in the Austrian Empire also hampered the moving of two large
armies to the northern frontier. Above all, the swift and decisive movements of the Prussians
speedily drove the allies to act on the defensive--itself a grave misfortune in war.

Meanwhile the Prussian strategist, von Moltke, was carrying out a far more incisive plan of
operations--that of sending three Prussian armies into the middle of Bohemia, and there forming
a great mass which would sweep away all obstacles from the road to Vienna. This design received
prompt and skilful execution. Saxony was quickly overrun, and the irruption of three great
armies into Bohemia compelled the Austrians and their Saxon allies hurriedly to alter their
plans. After suffering several reverses in the north of Bohemia, their chief array under Benedek
barred the way of the two northern Prussian armies on the heights north of the town of Königgrätz.
On the morning of July 3 the defenders long beat off all frontal attacks with heavy loss; but
about 2 P.M. the Army of Silesia, under the Crown Prince Frederick of Prussia, after a forced
march of twelve miles, threw itself on their right flank, where Benedek expected no very serious
onset. After desperate fighting the Army of Silesia carried the village of Chlum in the heart
of the Austrian position, and compelled Austrians and Saxons to a hurried retreat over the
Elbe. In this the Austrian infantry was saved from destruction by the heroic stand made by
the artillery. Even so, the allies lost more than 13,000 killed and wounded, 22,000 prisoners,
and 187 guns[4].

[4] Sybel, Die Begründung des deutschen Reiches, vol. v. pp. 174-205; Journals of Field Marshal
Count von Blumenthal for 1866 and 1871 (Eng. edit.), pp. 37-44.

Königgrätz (or Sadowa, as it is often called) decided the whole campaign. The invaders now
advanced rapidly towards Vienna, and at the town of Nikolsburg concluded the Preliminaries
of Peace with Austria (July 26), whereupon a mandate came from Paris, bidding them stop. In
fact, the Emperor of the French offered his intervention in a manner most threatening to the
victors. He sought to detach Italy from the Prussian alliance by the offer of Venetia as a
left-handed present from himself--an offer which the Italian Government subsequently refused.

To understand how Napoleon III. came to change front and belie his earlier promises, one must
look behind the scenes. Enough is already known to show that the Emperor's hand was forced
by his Ministers and by the Parisian Press, probably also by the Empress Eugénie. Though desirous,
apparently, of befriending Prussia, he had already yielded to their persistent pleas urging
him to stay the growth of the Protestant Power of North Germany. On June 10, at the outbreak
of the war, he secretly concluded a treaty with Austria, holding out to her the prospect of
recovering the great province of Silesia (torn from her by Frederick the Great in 1740) in
return for a magnanimous cession of Venetia to Italy. The news of Königgrätz led to a violent
outburst of anti-Prussian feeling; but Napoleon refused to take action at once, when it might
have been very effective.

The best plan for the French Government would have been to send to the Rhine all the seasoned
troops left available by Napoleon III.'s ill-starred Mexican enterprise, so as to help the
hard-pressed South German forces, offering also the armed mediation of France to the combatants.
In that case Prussia must have drawn back, and Napoleon III. could have dictated his own terms
to Central Europe. But his earlier leanings towards Prussia and Italy, the advice of Prince
Napoleon ("Plon-Plon") and Lavalette, and the wheedlings of the Prussian ambassador as to compensations
which France might gain as a set-off to Prussia's aggrandisement, told on the French Emperor's
nature, always somewhat sluggish and then prostrated by severe internal pain; with the result
that he sent his proposals for a settlement of the points in dispute, but took no steps towards
enforcing them. A fortnight thus slipped away, during which the Prussians reaped the full fruits
of their triumph at Königgrätz; and it was not until July 29, three days after the Preliminaries
of Peace were signed, that the French Foreign Minister, Drouyn de Lhuys, worried his master,
then prostrate with pain at Vichy, into sanctioning the following demands from victorious Prussia:
the cession to France of the Rhenish Palatinate (belonging to Bavaria), the south-western part
of Hesse Darmstadt, and that part of Prussia's Rhine-Province lying in the valley of the Saar
which she had acquired after Waterloo. This would have brought within the French frontier the
great fortress of Mainz (Mayence); but the great mass of these gains, it will be observed,
would have been at the expense of South German States, whose cause France proclaimed her earnest
desire to uphold against the encroaching power of Prussia.

Bismarck took care to have an official copy of these demands in writing, the use of which will
shortly appear; and having procured this precious document, he defied the French envoy, telling
him that King William, rather than agree to such a surrender of German land, would make peace
with Austria and the German States on any terms, and invade France at the head of the forces
of a united Germany. This reply caused another change of front at Napoleon's Court. The demands
were disavowed and the Foreign Minister, Drouyn de Lhuys, resigned[5].

[5] Sybel, op. cit. vol. v. pp. 365-374. Débidour, op. cit. vol. ii. pp. 315-318. See too volume
viii. of Ollivier's work, L'Empire libéral, published in 1904; and M. de la Gorce's work, Histoire
du second Empire, vol. vi. (Paris 1903).

The completeness of Prussia's triumph over Austria and her German allies, together with the
preparations of the Hungarians for revolt, decided the Court of Vienna to accept the Prussian
terms which were embodied in the Treaty of Prague (Aug. 23); they were, the direct cession
of Venetia to Italy; the exclusion of Austria from German affairs and her acceptance of the
changes there pending; the cession to Prussia of Schleswig-Holstein; and the payment of 20,000,000
thalers (about £3,000,000) as war indemnity. The lenience of these conditions was to have a
very noteworthy result, namely, the speedy reconciliation of the two Powers: within twenty
years they were firmly united in the Triple Alliance with Italy (see Chapter X.).

Some difficulties stood in the way of peace between Prussia and her late enemies in the German
Confederation, especially Bavaria. These last were removed when Bismarck privately disclosed
to the Bavarian Foreign Minister the secret demand made by France for the cession of the Bavarian
Palatinate. In the month of August, the South German States, Bavaria, Würtemberg and Baden,
accepted Prussia's terms; whereby they paid small war indemnities and recognised the new constitution
of Germany. Outwardly they formed a South German Confederation; but this had a very shadowy
existence; and the three States by secret treaties with Prussia agreed to place their armies
and all military arrangements, in case of war, under the control of the King of Prussia. Thus
within a month from the close of "the Seven Weeks' War," the whole of Germany was quietly but
firmly bound to common action in military matters; and the actions of France left little doubt
as to the need of these timely precautions.

On those German States which stood in the way of Prussia's territorial development and had
shown marked hostility, Bismarck bore hard. The Kingdom of Hanover, Electoral Hesse (Hesse-Cassel),
the Duchy of Nassau, and the Free City of Frankfurt were annexed outright, Prussia thereby
gaining direct contact with her Westphalian and Rhenish Provinces. The absorption of Frankfurt-on-the-Main,
and the formation of a new league, the North German Confederation, swept away all the old federal
machinery, and marked out Berlin, not Vienna or Frankfurt, as the future governing centre of
the Fatherland. It was doubtless a perception of the vast gains to the national cause which
prompted the Prussian Parliament to pass a Bill of Indemnity exonerating the King's Ministers
for the illegal acts committed by them during the "Conflict Time" (1861-66)--acts which saved
Prussia in spite of her Parliament.

Constitutional freedom likewise benefited largely by the results of the war. The new North
German Confederation was based avowedly on manhood suffrage, not because either King William
or Bismarck loved democracy, but because after lately pledging themselves to it as the groundwork
of reform of the old Confederation, they could not draw back in the hour of triumph. As Bismarck
afterwards confessed to his Secretary, Dr. Busch, "I accepted universal suffrage, but with
reluctance, as a Frankfurt tradition" (i.e. of the democratic Parliament of Frankfurt in 1848)[6].
All the lands, therefore, between the Niemen and the Main were bound together in a Confederation
based on constitutional principles, though the governing powers of the King and his Ministers
continued to be far larger than is the case in Great Britain. To this matter we shall recur
when we treat of the German Empire, formed by the union of the North and South German Confederations
of 1866.

[6] Busch, Our Chancellor, vol. ii. p. 196 (English edit.).

Austria also was soon compelled to give way before the persistent demands of the Hungarian
patriots for their ancient constitution, which happily blended monarchy and democracy. Accordingly,
the centralised Hapsburg monarchy was remodelled by the Ausgleich (compromise) of 1867, and
became the Dual-Monarchy of Austria-Hungary, the two parts of the realm being ruled quite separately
for most purposes of government, and united only for those of army organisation, foreign policy,
and finance. Parliamentary control became dominant in each part of the Empire; and the grievances
resulting from autocratic or bureaucratic rule vanished from Hungary. They disappeared also
from Hanover and Hesse-Cassel, where the Guelf sovereigns and Electors had generally repressed
popular movements.

Greatest of all the results of the war of 1866, however, was the gain to the national cause
in Germany and Italy. Peoples that had long been divided were now in the brief space of three
months brought within sight of the long-wished-for unity. The rush of these events blinded
men to their enduring import and produced an impression that the Prussian triumph was like
that of Napoleon I., too sudden and brilliant to last. Those who hazarded this verdict forgot
that his political arrangements for Europe violated every instinct of national solidarity;
while those of 1866 served to group the hitherto divided peoples of North Germany and Italy
around the monarchies that had proved to be the only possible rallying points in their respective
countries. It was this harmonising of the claims and aspirations of monarchy, nationality,
and democracy that gave to the settlement of 1866 its abiding importance, and fitted the two
peoples for the crowning triumph of 1870.

CHAPTER I

THE CAUSES OF THE FRANCO-GERMAN WAR

     "After the fatal year 1866, the Empire was in a state of
     decadence."--L. GREGOIRE, Histoire de France.

The irony of history is nowhere more manifest than in the curious destiny which called a Napoleon
III. to the place once occupied by Napoleon I., and at the very time when the national movements,
unwittingly called to vigorous life by the great warrior, were attaining to the full strength
of manhood. Napoleon III. was in many ways a well-meaning dreamer, who, unluckily for himself,
allowed his dreams to encroach on his waking moments. In truth, his sluggish but very persistent
mind never saw quite clearly where dreams must give way to realities; or, as M. de Falloux
phrased it, "He does not know the difference between dreaming and thinking[7]." Thus his policy
showed an odd mixture of generous haziness and belated practicality.

[7] Notes from a Diary, 1851-1872, by Sir M.E. Grant Duff, vol. i. p. 120.

Long study of his uncle's policy showed him, rightly enough, that it erred in trampling down
the feeling of nationality in Germany and elsewhere. The nephew resolved to avoid this mistake
and to pose as the champion of the oppressed and divided peoples of Italy, Germany, Poland,
and the Balkan Peninsula--a programme that promised to appeal to the ideal aspirations of the
French, to embarrass the dynasties that had overthrown the first Napoleon, and to yield substantial
gains for his nephew. Certainly it did so in the case of Italy; his championship of the Roumanians
also helped on the making of that interesting Principality (1861) and gained the good-will
of Russia; but he speedily forfeited this by his wholly ineffective efforts on behalf of the
Poles in 1863. His great mistakes, however, were committed in and after the year 1863, when
he plunged into Mexican politics with the chimerical aim of founding a Roman Catholic Empire
in Central America, and favoured the rise of Prussia in connection with the Schleswig-Holstein
question. By the former of these he locked up no small part of his army in Mexico when he greatly
needed it on the Rhine; by the latter he helped on the rise of the vigorous North German Power.

As we have seen, he secretly advised Prussia to take both Schleswig and Holstein, thereby announcing
his wish for the effective union of Germans with the one great State composed almost solely
of Germans. "I shall always be consistent in my conduct," he said. "If I have fought for the
independence of Italy, if I have lifted up my voice for Polish nationality, I cannot have other
sentiments in Germany, or obey other principles." This declaration bespoke the doctrinaire
rather than the statesman. Untaught by the clamour which French Chauvinists and ardent Catholics
had raised against his armed support of the Italian national cause in 1859, he now proposed
to further the aggrandisement of the Protestant North German Power which had sought to partition
France in 1815.

The clamour aroused by his leanings towards Prussia in 1864-66 was naturally far more violent,
in proportion as the interests of France were more closely at stake. Prussia held the Rhine
Province; and French patriots, who clung to the doctrine of the "natural frontiers"--the Ocean,
Pyrenees, Alps, and Rhine--looked on her as the natural enemy. They pointed out that millions
of Frenchmen had shed their blood in the Revolutionary and Napoleonic wars to win and to keep
the Rhine boundary; and their most eloquent spokesman, M. Thiers, who had devoted his historical
gifts to glorifying those great days, passionately declaimed against the policy of helping
on the growth of the hereditary foe.

We have already seen the results of this strife between the pro-Prussian foibles of the Emperor
and the eager prejudices of Frenchmen, whose love of oppressed and divided nations grew in
proportion to their distance from France, and changed to suspicion or hatred in the case of
her neighbours. In 1866, under the breath of ministerial arguments and oratorical onslaughts
Napoleon III.'s policy weakly wavered, thereby giving to Bismarck's statecraft a decisive triumph
all along the line. In vain did he in the latter part of that year remind the Prussian statesman
of his earlier promises (always discreetly vague) of compensation for France, and throw out
diplomatic feelers for Belgium, or at any rate Luxemburg[8]. In vain did M. Thiers declare
in the Chamber of Deputies that France, while recognising accomplished facts in Germany, ought
"firmly to declare that we will not allow them to go further" (March 14, 1867). Bismarck replied
to this challenge of the French orator by publishing five days later the hitherto secret military
alliances concluded with the South German States in August 1866. Thenceforth France knew that
a war with Prussia would be war with a united Germany.

[8] In 1867 Bismarck's promises went so far as the framing of a secret compact with France,
one article of which stated that Prussia would not object to the annexation of Belgium by France.
The agreement was first published by the Times on July 25, 1870, Bismarck then divulging the
secret so as to inflame public opinion against France.

In the following year the Zollverein, or German Customs' Union (which had been gradually growing
since 1833), took a definitely national form in a Customs' Parliament which assembled in April
1868, thus unifying Germany for purposes of trade as well as those of war. This sharp rebuff
came at a time when Napoleon's throne was tottering from the utter collapse of his Mexican
expedition; when, too, he more than ever needed popular support in France for the beginnings
of a more constitutional rule. Early in 1867 he sought to buy Luxemburg from Holland. This
action aroused a storm of wrath in Prussia, which had the right to garrison Luxemburg; but
the question was patched up by a Conference of the Powers at London, the Duchy being declared
neutral territory under the guarantee of Europe; the fortifications of its capital were also
to be demolished, and the Prussian garrison withdrawn. This success for French diplomacy was
repeated in Italy, where the French troops supporting the Pope crushed the efforts of Garibaldi
and his irregulars to capture Rome, at the sanguinary fight of Mentana (November 3, 1867).
The official despatch, stating that the new French rifle, the chassepôt, "had done wonders,"
spread jubilation through France and a sharp anti-Gallic sentiment throughout Italy.

And while Italy heaved with longings for her natural capital, popular feelings in France and
North Germany made steadily for war.

Before entering upon the final stages of the dispute, it may be well to take a bird's-eye view
of the condition of the chief Powers in so far as it explains their attitude towards the great
struggle.

The condition of French politics was strangely complex. The Emperor had always professed that
he was the elect of France, and would ultimately crown his political edifice with the corner-stone
of constitutional liberty. Had he done so in the successful years 1855-61, possibly his dynasty
might have taken root. He deferred action, however, until the darker years that came after
1866. In 1868 greater freedom was allowed to the Press and in the case of public meetings.
The General Election of the spring of 1869 showed large gains to the Opposition, and decided
the Emperor to grant to the Corps Législatif the right of initiating laws concurrently with
himself, and he declared that Ministers should be responsible to it (September 1869).

These and a few other changes marked the transition from autocracy to the "Liberal Empire."
One of the champions of constitutional principles, M. Emile Ollivier, formed a Cabinet to give
effect to the new policy, and the Emperor, deeming the time ripe for consolidating his power
on a democratic basis, consulted the country in a plébiscite, or mass vote, primarily as to
their judgment on the recent changes, but implicitly as to their confidence in the imperial
system as a whole. His skill in joining together two topics that were really distinct, gained
him a tactical victory. More than 7,350,000 affirmative votes were given, as against 1,572,000
negatives; while 1,900,000 voters registered no vote. This success at the polls emboldened
the supporters of the Empire; and very many of them, especially, it is thought, the Empress
Eugénie, believed that only one thing remained in order to place the Napoleonic dynasty on
a lasting basis--that was, a successful war.

Champions of autocracy pointed out that the growth of Radicalism coincided with the period
of military failures and diplomatic slights. Let Napoleon III., they said in effect, imitate
the policy of his uncle, who, as long as he dazzled France by triumphs, could afford to laugh
at the efforts of constitution-mongers. The big towns might prate of liberty; but what France
wanted was glory and strong government. Such were their pleas: there was much in the past history
of France to support them. The responsible advisers of the Emperor determined to take a stronger
tone in foreign affairs, while the out-and-out Bonapartists jealously looked for any signs
of official weakness so that they might undermine the Ollivier Ministry and hark back to absolutism.
When two great parties in a State make national prestige a catchword of the political game,
peace cannot be secure: that was the position of France in the early part of 1870[9].

[9] See Ollivier's great work, L'Empire libéral, for full details of this time.

The eve of the Franco-German War was a time of great importance for the United Kingdom. The
Reform Bill of 1867 gave a great accession of power to the Liberal Party; and the General Election
of November 1868 speedily led to the resignation of the Disraeli Cabinet and the accession
of the Gladstone Ministry to power. This portended change in other directions than home affairs.
The tradition of a spirited foreign policy died with Lord Palmerston in 1865. With the entry
of John Bright to the new Cabinet peace at all costs became the dominant note of British statesmanship.
There was much to be said in favour of this. England needed a time of rest in order to cope
with the discontent of Ireland and the problems brought about by the growth of democracy and
commercialism in the larger island. The disestablishment and partial disendowment of the Protestant
Church in Ireland (July 1869), the Irish Land Act (August 1870), and the Education Act of 1870,
showed the preoccupation of the Ministry for home affairs; while the readiness with which,
a little later, they complied with all the wishes of the United States in the "Alabama" case,
equally proclaimed their pacific intentions. England, which in 1860 had exercised so powerful
an influence on the Italian national question, was for five years a factor of small account
in European affairs. Far from pleasing the combatants, our neutrality annoyed both of them.
The French accused England of "deserting" Napoleon III. in his time of need--a charge that
has lately been revived by M. Hanotaux. To this it is only needful to reply that the French
Emperor entered into alliance with us at the time of the Crimean War merely for his own objects,
and allowed all friendly feeling to be ended by French threats of an invasion of England in
1858 and his shabby treatment of Italy in the matter of Savoy and Nice a year later. On his
side, Bismarck also complained that our feeling for the German cause went no further than "theoretical
sympathy," and that "during the war England never compromised herself so far in our favour
as to endanger her friendship with France. On the contrary." These vague and enigmatic charges
at bottom only express the annoyance of the combatants at their failure to draw neutrals into
the strife[10].

[10] Hanotaux, Contemporary France, vol. i. p. 9 (Eng. ed.); Bismarck: his Reflections and
Reminiscences, vol. ii. p. 61. The popular Prussian view about England found expression in
the comic paper Kladderdatsch:--

Deutschland beziehe billige Sympathien Und Frankreich theures Kriegsmateriel.

The traditions of the United States, of course, forbade their intervention in the Franco-Prussian
dispute. By an article of their political creed termed the Monroe Doctrine, they asserted their
resolve not to interfere in European affairs and to prevent the interference of any strictly
European State in those of the New World. It was on this rather vague doctrine that they cried
"hands off" from Mexico to the French Emperor; and the abandonment of his protégé, the so-called
Emperor Maximilian, by French troops, brought about the death of that unhappy prince and a
sensible decline in the prestige of his patron (June 1867).

Russia likewise remembered Napoleon III.'s championship of the Poles in 1863, which, however
Platonic in its nature, caused the Czar some embarrassment. Moreover, King William of Prussia
had soothed the Czar's feelings, ruffled by the dethroning of three German dynasties in 1866,
by a skilful reply which alluded to his (King William's) desire to be of service to Russian
interests elsewhere--a hint which the diplomatists of St. Petersburg remembered in 1870 to
some effect.

For the rest, the Czar Alexander II. (1855-81) and his Ministers were still absorbed in the
internal policy of reform, which in the sixties freed the serfs and gave Russia new judicial
and local institutions, doomed to be swept away in the reaction following the murder of that
enlightened ruler. The Russian Government therefore pledged itself to neutrality, but in a
sense favourable to Prussia. The Czar ascribed the Crimean War to the ambition of Napoleon
III., and remembered the friendship of Prussia at that time, as also in the Polish Revolt of
1863[11]. Bismarck's policy now brought its reward.

[11] See Sir H. Rumbold's Recollections of a Diplomatist (First Series), vol. ii. p. 292, for
the Czar's hostility to France in 1870.

The neutrality of Russia is always a matter of the utmost moment for the Central Powers in
any war on their western frontiers. Their efforts against Revolutionary France in 1792-94 failed
chiefly because of the ambiguous attitude of the Czarina Catherine II.; and the collapse of
Frederick William IV.'s policy in 1848-51 was due to the hostility of his eastern neighbour.
In fact, the removal of anxiety about her open frontier on the east was now worth a quarter
of a million of men to Prussia.

But the Czar's neutrality was in one matter distinctly friendly to his uncle, King William
of Prussia. It is an open secret that unmistakable hints went from St. Petersburg to Vienna
to the effect that, if Austria drew the sword for Napoleon III. she would have to reckon with
an irruption of the Russians into her open Galician frontier. Probably this accounts for the
conduct of the Hapsburg Power, which otherwise is inexplicable. A war of revenge against Prussia
seemed to be the natural step to take. True, the Emperor Francis Joseph had small cause to
like Napoleon III. The loss of Lombardy in 1859 still rankled in the breast of every patriotic
Austrian; and the suspicions which that enigmatical ruler managed to arouse, prevented any
definite agreement resulting from the meeting of the two sovereigns at Salzburg in 1867.

The relations of France and Austria were still in the same uncertain state before the War of
1870. The foreign policy of Austria was in the hands of Count Beust, a bitter foe of Prussia;
but after the concession of constitutional rule to Hungary by the compromise (Ausgleich) of
1867, the Dual Monarchy urgently needed rest, especially as its army was undergoing many changes.
The Chancellor's action was therefore clogged on all sides. Nevertheless, when the Luxemburg
affair of 1867 brought France and Prussia near to war, Napoleon began to make advances to the
Court of Vienna. How far they went is not known. Beust has asserted in his correspondence with
the French Foreign Minister, the Duc de Gramont (formerly ambassador at Vienna), that they
never were more than discussions, and that they ended in 1869 without any written agreement.
The sole understanding was to the effect that the policy of both States should be friendly
and pacific, Austria reserving the right to remain neutral if France were compelled to make
war. The two Empires further promised not to make any engagement with a third Power without
informing the other.

This statement is not very convincing. States do not usually bind themselves in the way just
described, unless they have some advantageous agreement with the Power which has the first
claim on their alliance. It is noteworthy, however, that the Duc de Gramont, in the correspondence
alluded to above, admits that, as Ambassador and as Foreign Minister of France, he never had
to claim the support of Austria in the war with Prussia[12].

[12] Memoirs of Count Beust, vol. ii. pp. 358-359 (Appendix D, Eng. edit.).

How are we to reconcile these statements with the undoubted fact that the Emperor Napoleon
certainly expected help from Austria and also from Italy? The solution of the riddle seems
to be that Napoleon, as also Francis Joseph and Victor Emmanuel, kept their Foreign Ministers
in the dark on many questions of high policy, which they transacted either by private letters
among themselves, or through military men who had their confidence. The French and Italian
sovereigns certainly employed these methods, the latter because he was far more French in sympathy
than his Ministers.

As far back as the year 1868, Victor Emmanuel made overtures to Napoleon with a view to alliance,
the chief aim of which, from his standpoint, was to secure the evacuation of Rome by the French
troops, and the gain of the Eternal City for the national cause. Prince Napoleon lent his support
to this scheme, and from an article written by him we know that the two sovereigns discussed
the matter almost entirely by means of confidential letters[13]. These discussions went on
up to the month of June 1869. Francis Joseph, on hearing of them, urged the French Emperor
to satisfy Italy, and thus pave the way for an alliance between the three Powers against Prussia.
Nothing definite came of the affair, and chiefly, it would seem, owing to the influence of
the Empress Eugénie and the French clerics. She is said to have remarked: "Better the Prussians
in Paris than the Italian troops in Rome." The diplomatic situation therefore remained vague,
though in the second week of July 1870, the Emperor again took up the threads which, with greater
firmness and foresight, he might have woven into a firm design.

[13] Revue des deux Mondes for April 1, 1878.

The understanding between the three Powers advanced only in regard to military preparations.
The Austrian Archduke Albrecht, the victor of Custoza, burned to avenge the defeat of Königgrätz,
and with this aim in view visited Paris in February to March 1870. He then proposed to Napoleon
an invasion of North Germany by the armies of France, Austria, and Italy. The French Emperor
developed the plan by more specific overtures which he made in the month of June; but his Ministers
were so far in the dark as to these military proposals that they were then suggesting the reduction
of the French army by 10,000 men, while Ollivier, the Prime Minister, on June 30 declared to
the French Chamber that peace had never been better assured[14].

[14] Seignobos, A Political History of Contemporary Europe, vol. ii. pp. 806-807 (Eng. edit.).
Oncken, Zeitalter des Kaisers Wilhelm (vol. i. pp. 720-740), tries to prove that there was
a deep conspiracy against Prussia. I am not convinced by his evidence.

And yet on that same day General Lebrun, aide-de-camp to the Emperor, was drawing up at Paris
a confidential report of the mission with which he had lately been entrusted to the Austrian
military authorities. From that report we take the following particulars. On arriving at Vienna,
he had three private interviews with the Archduke Albrecht, and set before him the desirability
of a joint invasion of North Germany in the autumn of that year. To this the Archduke demurred,
on the ground that such a campaign ought to begin in the spring if the full fruits of victory
were to be gathered in before the short days came. Austria and Italy, he said, could not place
adequate forces in the field in less than six weeks owing to lack of railways[15].

[15] Souvenirs militaires, by General B.L.J. Lebrun (Paris 1895), pp. 95-148.

Developing his own views, the Archduke then suggested that it would be desirable for France
to undertake the war against North Germany not later than the middle of March 1871, Austria
and Italy at the same time beginning their mobilisations, though not declaring war until their
armies were ready at the end of six weeks. Two French armies should in the meantime cross the
Rhine in order to sever the South Germans from the Confederation of the North, one of them
marching towards Nuremberg, where it would be joined by the western army of Austria and the
Italian forces sent through Tyrol. The other Austrian army would then invade Saxony or Lusatia
in order to strike at Berlin. He estimated the forces of the States hostile to Prussia as follows:--

   +------------------------------------------------------------------+
   |                               |Men.        |Horses.   |Cannon.   |
   +-------------------------------+------------+----------+----------+
   |France                         |309,000     |35,000    |972       |
   |Austria (exclusive of reserve) |360,000     |27,000    |1128      |
   |Italy                          |68,000      |5000      |180       |
   |Denmark                        |260,000 (?) |2000      |72        |
   +-------------------------------+------------+----------+----------+

He thus reckoned the forces of the two German Confederations:--

   +-------------------------------+------------+----------+----------+
   |                               |Men.        |Horses.   |Cannon.   |
   |North                          |377,000     |48,000    |1284      |
   |South                          |97,000      |10,000    |288       |
   +-------------------------------+------------+----------+----------+

but the support of the latter might be hoped for. Lebrun again urged the desirability of a
campaign in the autumn, but the Archduke repeated that it must begin in the spring. In that
condition, as in his earlier statement that France must declare war first, while her allies
prepared for war, we may discern a deep-rooted distrust of Napoleon III.

On June 14 the Archduke introduced Lebrun to the Emperor Francis Joseph, who informed him that
he wanted peace; but, he added, "if I make war, I must be forced to it." In case of war Prussia
might exploit the national German sentiment existing in South Germany and Austria. He concluded
with these words, "But if the Emperor Napoleon, compelled to accept or to declare war, came
with his armies into South Germany, not as an enemy but as a liberator, I should be forced
on my side to declare that I [would] make common cause with him. In the eyes of my people I
could do no other than join my armies to those of France. That is what I pray you to say for
me to the Emperor Napoleon; I hope that he will see, as I do, my situation both in home and
foreign affairs." Such was the report which Lebrun drew up for Napoleon III. on June 30. It
certainly led that sovereign to believe in the probability of Austrian help in the spring of
1871, but not before that time.

The question now arises whether Bismarck was aware of these proposals. If warlike counsels
prevailed at Vienna, it is probable that some preparations would be made, and the secret may
have leaked out in this way, or possibly through the Hungarian administration. In any case,
Bismarck knew that the Austrian chancellor, Count Beust, thirsted for revenge for the events
of 1866[16]. If he heard any whispers of an approaching league against Prussia, he would naturally
see the advantage of pressing on war at once, before Austria and Italy were ready to enter
the lists. Probably in this fact will be found one explanation of the origin of the Franco-German
War.

[Footnote 16: Bismarck: his Reflections and Reminiscences, vol. ii. p. 58.]

Before adverting to the proximate cause of the rupture, we may note that Beust's despatch of
July 11, 1870, to Prince Metternich, Austrian ambassador at Paris, displayed genuine fear lest
France should rush blindly into war with Prussia; and he charged Metternich tactfully to warn
the French Government against such a course of action, which would "be contrary to all that
we have agreed upon. . . . Even if we wished, we could not suddenly equip a respectably large
force. . . . Our services are gained to a certain extent [by France]; but we shall not go further
unless events carry us on; and we do not dream of plunging into war because it might suit France
to do so."

Again, however, the military men seem to have pushed on the diplomatists. The Archduke Albrecht
and Count Vitzthum went to Paris charged with some promises of support to France in case of
war. Thereafter, Count Beust gave the assurance at Vienna that the Austrians would be "faithful
to our engagements, as they have been recorded in the letters exchanged last year between the
two sovereigns. We consider the cause of France as ours, and we will contribute to the success
of her arms to the utmost of our power[17]."

[Footnote 17: Memoirs of Count Beust, vol. ii. p. 359. The Present Position of European Politics
p. 366 (1887). By the author of Greater Britain.]

In the midst of this maze of cross-purposes this much is clear: that both Emperors had gone
to work behind the backs of their Ministers, and that the military chiefs of France and Austria
brought their States to the brink of war while their Ministers and diplomatists were unaware
of the nearness of danger.

As we have seen, King Victor Emmanuel II. longed to draw the sword for Napoleon III., whose
help to Italy in 1859-60 he so curiously overrated. Fortunately for Italy, his Ministers took
a more practical view of the situation; but probably they too would have made common cause
with France had they received a definite promise of the withdrawal of French troops from Rome
and the satisfaction of Italian desires for the Eternal City as the national capital. This
promise, even after the outbreak of war, the French Emperor declined to give, though his cousin,
Prince Napoleon, urged him vehemently to give way on that point[18].

[Footnote 18: See the Rev. des deux Mondes for April 1, 1878, and "Chronique" of the Revue
d'Histoire diplomatique for 1905, p. 298; also W.H. Stillman, The Union of Italy, 1815-1895,
p. 348.]

In truth, the Emperor could not well give way. An Oecumenical Council sat at Rome from December
1869 to July 1870; its Ultramontane tendencies were throughout strongly marked, as against
the "Old Catholic" views; and it was a foregone conclusion that the Council would vote the
dogma of the infallibility of the Pope in matters of religion--as it did on the day before
France declared war against Prussia. How, then, could the Emperor, the "eldest son of the Church,"
as French monarchs have proudly styled themselves, bargain away Rome to the Italian Government,
already stained by sacrilege, when this crowning aureole of grace was about to encircle the
visible Head of the Church? There was no escape from the dilemma. Either Napoleon must go into
war with shouts of "Judas" hurled at him by all pious Roman Catholics; or he must try his fortunes
without the much-coveted help of Austria and Italy. He chose the latter alternative, largely,
it would seem, owing to the influence of his vehemently Catholic Empress[19]. After the first
defeats he sought to open negotiations, but then it was too late. Prince Napoleon went to Florence
and arrived there on August 20; but his utmost efforts failed to move the Italian Cabinet from
neutrality.

[Footnote 19: For the relations of France to the Vatican, see Histoire du second Empire, by
M. De la Gorce, vol. vi. (Paris, 1903); also Histoire Contemporaine (i.e. of France in 1869-1875),
by M. Samuel Denis, 4 vols. The Empress Eugénie once said that she was "deux fois Catholique,"
as a Spaniard and as French Empress. (Sir M.K. Grant Duff, Notes from a Diary, 1851-1872, vol.
i. p. 125.)]

Even this brief survey of international relations shows that Napoleon III. was a source of
weakness to France. Having seized on power by perfidious means, he throughout his whole reign
strove to dazzle the French by a series of adventures, which indeed pleased the Parisians for
the time, but at the cost of lasting distrust among the Powers. Generous in his aims, he at
first befriended the German and Italian national movements, but forfeited all the fruits of
those actions by his pettifogging conduct about Savoy and Nice, the Rhineland and Belgium;
while his final efforts to please French clericals and Chauvinists[20] by supporting the Pope
at Rome, lost him the support of States that might have retrieved the earlier blunders. In
brief, by helping on the nationalists of North Germany and Italy he offended French public
opinion; and his belated and spasmodic efforts to regain popularity at home aroused against
him the distrust of all the Powers. Their feelings about him may be summarised in the mot of
a diplomatist, "Scratch the Emperor and you will find the political refugee."

[Footnote 20: Chauvinist is a term corresponding to our "Jingo." It is derived from a man named
Chauvin, who lauded Napoleon I. and French glory to the skies.]

How different were the careers of Napoleon III. and of Bismarck! By resolutely keeping before
him the national aim, and that only, the Prussian statesman had reduced the tangle of German
affairs to simplicity and now made ready for the crowning work of all. In his Reminiscences
he avows his belief, as early as 1866, "that a war with France would succeed the war with Austria
lay in the logic of history"; and again, "I did not doubt that a Franco-German War must take
place before the construction of a United Germany could take place[21]." War would doubtless
have broken out in 1867 over the Luxemburg question, had he not seen the need of delay for
strengthening the bonds of union with South Germany and assuring the increase of the armies
of the Fatherland by the adoption of Prussian methods; or, as he phrased it, "each year's postponement
of the war would add 100,000 trained soldiers to our army[22]." In 1870 little was to be gained
by delay. In fact, the unionist movement in Germany then showed ominous signs of slackening.
In the South the Parliaments opposed any further approach to union with the North; and the
voting of the military budget in the North for that year was likely to lead to strong opposition
in the interests of the overtaxed people. A war might solve the unionist problem which was
insoluble in time of peace; and a casus belli was at hand.

[Footnote 21: Bismarck, Reminiscences, vol. ii. pp. 41, 57 (Eng. edit.).]

[Footnote 22: Ib. p. 58.]

Early in July 1870, the news leaked out that Prince Leopold of Hohenzollern was the officially
accepted candidate for the throne of Spain, left vacant since the revolution which drove Queen
Isabella into exile in 1868[23]. At once a thrill of rage shot through France; and the Duc
de Gramont, Foreign Minister of the new Ollivier Ministry, gave expression to the prevailing
feeling in his answer to a question on the subject in the Chamber of Deputies (July 6):--

[Footnote 23: The ex-queen Isabella died in Paris in April 1904.]

     We do not think that respect for the rights of a neighbouring
     people [Spain] obliges us to allow an alien Power [Prussia],
     by placing one of its princes on the throne of Charles V., to
     succeed in upsetting to our disadvantage the present
     equilibrium of forces in Europe, and imperil the interests
     and honour of France. We have the firm hope that this
     eventuality will not be realised. To hinder it, we count both
     on the wisdom of the German people and on the friendship of
     the Spanish people. If that should not be so, strong in your
     support and in that of the nation, we shall know how to
     fulfil our duty without hesitation and without weakness[24].

[Footnote 24: Sorel, Hist. diplomatique de la Guerre Franco-Allemande, vol. i. p. 77.]

The opening phrases were inaccurate. The prince in question was Prince Leopold of the Swabian
and Roman Catholic branch of the Hohenzollern family, who, as the Duc de Gramont knew, could
by no possibility recall the days when Charles V. reigned as Emperor in Germany and monarch
in Spain. This misstatement showed the intention of the French Ministry to throw down the glove
to Prussia--as is also clear from this statement in Gramont's despatch of July 10 to Benedetti:
"If the King will not advise the Prince of Hohenzollern to withdraw, well, it is war forthwith,
and in a few days we are at the Rhine[25]."

[Footnote 25: Benedetti, Ma Mission en Prusse, p.34. This work contains the French despatches
on the whole affair.]

Nevertheless, those who were behind the scenes had just cause for anger against Bismarck. The
revelations of Benedetti, French ambassador at Berlin, as well as the Memoirs of the King of
Roumania (brother to Prince Leopold of Hohenzollern) leave no doubt that the candidature of
the latter was privately and unofficially mooted in 1868, and again in the spring of 1869 through
a Prussian diplomatist, Werthern, and that it met with no encouragement whatever from the Prussian
monarch or the prince himself. But early in 1870 it was renewed in an official manner by the
provisional Government of Spain, and (as seems certain) at the instigation of Bismarck, who,
in May-June, succeeded in overcoming the reluctance of the prince and of King William. Bismarck
even sought to hurry the matter through the Spanish Cortes so as to commit Spain to the plan;
but this failed owing to the misinterpretation of a ciphered telegram from Berlin at Madrid[26].

[Footnote 26: In a recent work, Kaiser Wilhelm und die Begründung des Reichs, 1866-1871, Dr.
Lorenz tries to absolve Bismarck from complicity in these intrigues, but without success. See
Reminiscences of the King of Roumania (edited by S. Whitman), pp. 70, 86-87, 92-95; also Headlam's
Bismarck, p. 327.]

Such was the state of the case when the affair became known to the Ollivier Ministry. Though
not aware, seemingly, of all these details, Napoleon's advisers were justified in treating
the matter, not as a private affair between the Hohenzollerns and Spain (as Germans then maintained
it was) but as an attempt of the Prussian Government to place on the Spanish throne a prince
who could not but be friendly to the North German Power. In fact, the French saw in it a challenge
to war; and putting together all the facts as now known, we must pronounce that they were almost
certainly right. Bismarck undoubtedly wanted war; and it is impossible to think that he did
not intend to use this candidature as a means of exasperating the French. The man who afterwards
declared that, at the beginning of the Danish disputes in 1863, he made up his mind to have
Schleswig-Holstein for Prussia[27], certainly saw in the Hohenzollern candidature a step towards
a Prusso-Spanish alliance or a war with France that might cement German unity.

[Footnote 27: Busch, Our Chancellor, vol. i. p. 367.]

In any case, that was the outcome of events. The French papers at once declaimed against the
candidature in a way that aroused no less passion on the other side of the Rhine. For a brief
space, however, matters seemed to be smoothed over by the calm good sense of the Prussian monarch
and his nephew. The King was then at Ems, taking the waters, when Benedetti, the French ambassador,
waited on him and pressed him most urgently to request Prince Leopold to withdraw from the
candidature to the Spanish Crown. This the King declined to do in the way that was pointed
out to him, rightly considering that such a course would play into the hands of the French
by lowering his own dignity and the prestige of Prussia. Moreover, he, rather illogically,
held the whole matter to be primarily one that affected the Hohenzollern family and Spain.
The young prince, however, on hearing of the drift of events, solved the problem by declaring
his intention not to accept the Crown of Spain (July 12). The action was spontaneous, emanating
from Prince Leopold and his father Prince Antony, not from the Prussian monarch, though, on
hearing of their decision, he informed Benedetti that he entirely approved it.

If the French Government had really wished for peace, it would have let the matter end there.
But it did not do so. The extreme Bonapartists--plus royalistes que le roi--all along wished
to gain prestige for their sovereign by inflicting an open humiliation on King William and
through him on Prussia. They were angry that he had evaded the snare, and now brought pressure
to bear on the Ministry, especially the Duc de Gramont, so that at 7 P.M. of that same day
(July 12) he sent a telegram to Benedetti at Ems directing him to see King William and press
him to declare that he "would not again authorise this candidature." The Minister added: "The
effervescence of spirits [at Paris] is such that we do not know whether we shall succeed in
mastering it." This was true. Paris was almost beside herself. As M. Sorel says: "The warm
July evening drove into the streets a populace greedy of shows and excitements, whose imagination
was spoiled by the custom of political quackery, for whom war was but a drama and history a
romance[28]." Such was the impulse which led to Gramont's new demand, and it was made in spite
of the remonstrances of the British ambassador, Lord Lyons.

Ollivier tried to persuade Sir M.E. Grant Duff (Notes from a Diary, 1873-1881, vol. i. p. 45)
that the French demand to King William was quite friendly and natural.]

Viewing that demand in the clearer light of the present time, we must say that it was not unreasonable
in itself; but it was presented in so insistent a way that King William declined to entertain
it. Again Gramont pressed Benedetti to urge the matter; but the utmost that the King would
do was to state: "He gives his approbation entirely and without reserve to the withdrawal of
the Prince of Hohenzollern: he cannot do more." He refused to see the ambassador further on
this subject; but on setting out to return to Berlin--a step necessitated by the growing excitement
throughout Germany--he took leave of Benedetti with perfect cordiality (July 14). The ambassador
thereupon returned to Paris.

Meanwhile, however, Bismarck had given the last flick to the restive courses of the Press on
both sides of the Rhine. In his Reminiscences he has described his depression of spirits on
hearing the news of the withdrawal of Prince Leopold's candidature and of his nearly formed
resolve to resign as a protest against so tame a retreat before French demands. But while Moltke,
Roon, and he were dining together, a telegram reached him from the King at Ems, dated July
13, 3.50 P.M., which gave him leave to inform the ambassadors and the Press of the present
state of affairs. Bismarck saw his chance. The telegram could be cut down so as to give a more
resolute look to the whole affair. And, after gaining Moltke's assurance that everything was
ready for war, he proceeded to condense it. The facts here can only be understood by a comparison
of the two versions. We therefore give the original as sent to Bismarck by Abeken, Secretary
to the Foreign Office, who was then at Ems:--

     His Majesty writes to me: "Count Benedetti spoke to me on the
     promenade, in order to demand from me, finally in a very
     importunate manner, that I should authorise him to telegraph
     at once that I bound myself for all future time never again
     to give my consent if the Hohenzollerns should renew their
     candidature. I refused at last somewhat sternly, as it is
     neither right nor possible to undertake engagements of this
     kind à tout jamais. Naturally I told him that I had as yet
     received no news, and as he was earlier informed about Paris
     and Madrid than myself, he could see clearly that my
     Government once more had no hand in the matter." His Majesty
     has since received a letter from the Prince. His Majesty
     having told Count Benedetti that he was awaiting news from
     the Prince, has decided, with reference to the above demand,
     upon the representation of Count Eulenburg and myself, not to
     receive Count Benedetti again, but only to let him be
     informed through an aide-de-camp: "That his Majesty had now
     received from the Prince confirmation of the news which
     Benedetti had already received from Paris, and had nothing
     further to say to the ambassador." His Majesty leaves it to
     your Excellency whether Benedetti's fresh demand and its
     rejection should not be at once communicated both to our
     ambassadors and to the Press. His Majesty,
     the King, thereupon decided not to receive the French
     ambassador again, and sent to tell him through the
     aide-de-camp on duty that his Majesty had nothing further to
     communicate to the ambassador.

Efforts have been made to represent Bismarck's "editing" of the Ems telegram as the decisive
step leading to war; and in his closing years, when seized with the morbid desire of a partly
discredited statesman to exaggerate his influence on events, he himself sought to perpetuate
this version. He claims that the telegram, as it came from Ems, described the incident there
"as a fragment of a negotiation still pending, and to be continued at Berlin." This claim is
quite untenable. A careful perusal of the original despatch from Ems shows that the negotiation,
far from being "still pending," was clearly described as having been closed on that matter.
That Benedetti so regarded it is proved by his returning at once to Paris. If it could have
been "continued at Berlin," he most certainly would have proceeded thither. Finally, the words
in the original as to the King refusing Benedetti "somewhat sternly" were omitted, and very
properly omitted, by Bismarck in his abbreviated version. Had he included those words, he might
have claimed to be the final cause of the War of 1870. As it is, his claim must be set aside
as the offspring of senile vanity. His version of the original Ems despatch did not contain
a single offensive word, neither did it alter any statement. Abeken also admitted that his
original telegram was far too long, and that Bismarck was quite justified in abbreviating it
as he did[29].

[Footnote 29: Heinrich Abeken, by Hedwig Abeken, p. 375. Bismarck's successor in the chancellory,
Count Caprivi, set matters in their true light in a speech in the Reichstag shortly after the
publication of Bismarck's Reminiscences.

I dissent from the views expressed by the well-informed reviewer of Ollivier's L'Empire libéral
(vol. viii.) in the Times of May 27, 1904, who pins his faith to an interview of Bismarck with
Lord Loftus on July 13, 1870. Bismarck, of course wanted war; but so did Gramont, and I hold
that the latter brought it about.]

If we pay attention, not to the present more complete knowledge of the whole affair, but to
the imperfect information then open to the German public, war was the natural result of the
second and very urgent demand that came from Paris. The Duc de Gramont in dispatching it must
have known that he was playing a desperate game. Either Prussia would give way and France would
score a diplomatic triumph over a hated rival; or Prussia would fight. The friends of peace
in France thought matters hopeless when that demand was sent in so insistent a manner. As soon
as Gladstone heard of the second demand of the Ollivier Ministry, he wrote to Lord Granville,
then Foreign Minister: "It is our duty to represent the immense responsibility which will rest
upon France, if she does not at once accept as satisfactory and conclusive the withdrawal of
the candidature of Prince Leopold[30]."

[Footnote 30: J. Morley, Life of Gladstone, vol. ii. p. 328.]

On the other hand, we must note that the conduct of the German Press at this crisis was certainly
provocative of war. The morning on which Bismarck's telegram appeared in the official North
German Gazette, saw a host of violent articles against France, and gleeful accounts of imaginary
insults inflicted by the King on Benedetti. All this was to be expected after the taunts of
cowardice freely levelled by the Parisian papers against Prussia for the last two days; but
whether Bismarck directly inspired the many sensational versions of the Ems affair that appeared
in North German papers on July 14 is not yet proven.

However that may be, the French Government looked on the refusal of its last demand, the publication
of Bismarck's telegram, and the insults of the German Press as a casus belli. The details of
the sitting of the Emperor's Council at 10 P.M. on July 14, at which it was decided to call
out the French reserves, are not yet known. Ollivier was not present. There had been a few
hours of wavering on this question; but the tone of the Parisian evening papers--it was the
French national day--the loud cries of the rabble for war, and their smashing the windows of
the Prussian embassy, seem to have convinced the Emperor and his advisers that to draw back
now would involve the fall of the dynasty. Report has uniformly pointed to the Empress as pressing
these ideas on her consort, and the account which the Duc de Gramont later on gave to Lord
Malmesbury of her words at that momentous Council-meeting support popular rumour. It is as
follows:--

     Before the final resolve to declare war the Emperor, Empress,
     and Ministers went to St. Cloud. After some discussion
     Gramont told me that the Empress, a high-spirited and
     impressionable woman, made a strong and most excited address,
     declaring that "war was inevitable if the honour of France
     was to be sustained." She was immediately followed by Marshal
     Leboeuf, who, in the most violent tone, threw down his
     portfolio and swore that if war was not declared he would
     give it up and renounce his military rank. The Emperor gave
     way, and Gramont went straight to the Chamber to announce the
     fatal news[31].

[Footnote 31: This version has, I believe, not been refuted. Still, I must look on it with
suspicion. No Minister, who had done so much to stir up the war-feeling, ought to have made
any such confession--least of all against a lady, who could not answer it. M. Seignobos in
his Political History of Contemporary Europe, vol. i. chap. vi. p. 184 (Eng edit.) says of
Gramont: "He it was who embroiled France in the war with Prussia." In the course of the parliamentary
inquiry of 1872 Gramont convicted himself and his Cabinet of folly in 1870 by using these words:
"Je crois pouvoir déclarer que si on avait eu un doute, un seule doute, sur notre aptitude
à la guerre, on eût immédiatement arrêté la négociation" (Enquête parlementaire, I. vol. i.
p. 108).]

On the morrow (July 15) the Chamber of Deputies appointed a Commission, which hastily examined
the diplomatic documents and reported in a sense favourable to the Ollivier Ministry. The subsequent
debate made strongly for a rupture; and it is important to note that Ollivier and Gramont based
the demand for warlike preparations on the fact that King William had refused to see the French
ambassador, and held that that alone was a sufficient insult. In vain did Thiers protest against
the war as inopportune, and demand to see all the necessary documents. The Chamber passed the
war supplies by 246 votes to 10; and Thiers had his windows broken. Late on that night Gramont
set aside a last attempt of Lord Granville to offer the mediation of England in the cause of
peace, on the ground that this would be to the harm of France--"unless means were found to
stop the rapid mobilisation of the Prussian armies which were approaching our frontier[32]."
In this connection it is needful to state that the order for mobilising the North German troops
was not given by the King of Prussia until late on July 15, when the war votes of the French
Chambers were known at Berlin.

[Footnote 32: Quoted by Sorel, op. cit. vol. i. p. 196.]

Benedetti, in his review of the whole question, passes the following very noteworthy and sensible
verdict: "It was public opinion which forced the [French] Government to draw the sword, and
by an irresistible onset dictated its resolutions[33]." This is certainly true for the public
opinion of Paris, though not of France as a whole. The rural districts which form the real
strength of France nearly always cling to peace. It is significant that the Prefects of French
Departments reported that only 16 declared in favour of war, while 37 were in doubt on the
matter, and 34 accepted war with regret. This is what might be expected from a people which
in the Provinces is marked by prudence and thrift.

[Footnote 33: Benedetti, Ma Mission en Prusse, p. 411.]

In truth, the people of modern Europe have settled down to a life of peaceful industry, in
which war is the most hateful of evils. On the other hand, the massing of mankind in great
cities, where thought is superficial and feelings can quickly be stirred by a sensation-mongering
Press, has undoubtedly helped to feed political passions and national hatred. A rural population
is not deeply stirred by stories of slights to ambassadors. The peasant of Brittany had no
active dislike for the peasant of Brandenburg. Each only asked to be left to till his fields
in peace and safety. But the crowds on the Parisian boulevards and in Unter den Linden took
(and seemingly always will take) a very different view of life. To them the news of the humiliation
of the rival beyond the Rhine was the greatest and therefore the most welcome of sensations;
and, unfortunately, the papers which pandered to their habits set the tone of thought for no
small part of France and Germany and exerted on national policy an influence out of all proportion
to its real weight.

The story of the Franco-German dispute is one of national jealousy carefully fanned for four
years by newspaper editors and popular speakers until a spark sufficed to set Western Europe
in a blaze. The spark was the Hohenzollern candidature, which would have fallen harmless had
not the tinder been prepared since Königgratz by journalists at Paris and Berlin. The resulting
conflagration may justly be described as due partly to national friction and partly to the
supposed interests of the Napoleonic dynasty, but also to the heat engendered by a sensational
Press.

It is well that one of the chief dangers to the peace of the modern world should be clearly
recognised. The centralisation of governments and of population may have its advantages; but
over against them we must set grave drawbacks; among those of a political kind the worst are
the growth of nervousness and excitability, and the craving for sensation--qualities which
undoubtedly tend to embitter national jealousies at all times, and in the last case to drive
weak dynasties or Cabinets on to war. Certainly Bismarck's clever shifts to bring about a rupture
in 1870 would have failed had not the atmosphere both at Paris and Berlin been charged with
electricity[34].

[Footnote 34: Prince Leopold of Hohenzollern died at Berlin on June 8, 1905. He was born in
1835, and in 1861 married the Infanta of Portugal.]

CHAPTER II

FROM WÖRTH TO GRAVELOTTE

     "The Chief of the General Staff had his eye fixed from the
     first upon the capture of the enemy's capital, the possession
     of which is of more importance in France than in other
     countries. . . . It is a delusion to believe that a plan of war
     may be laid for a prolonged period and carried out in every
     point."--VON MOLTKE, The Franco-German War.

In olden times, before the invention of long-range arms of precision, warfare was decided mainly
by individual bravery and strength. In the modern world victory has inclined more and more
to that side which carefully prepares beforehand to throw a force, superior alike in armament
and numbers, against the vitals of its enemy. Assuming that the combatants are fairly equal
in physical qualities--and the spread of liberty has undoubtedly lessened the great differences
that once were observable in this respect among European peoples--war becomes largely an affair
of preliminary organisation. That is to say, it is now a matter of brain rather than muscle.
Writers of the school of Carlyle may protest that all modern warfare is tame when compared
with the splendidly rampant animalism of the Homeric fights. In the interests of Humanity it
is to be hoped that the change will go on until war becomes wholly scientific and utterly unattractive.
Meanwhile, the soldier-caste, the politician, and the tax-payer have to face the fact that
the fortunes of war are very largely decided by humdrum costly preparations in time of peace.

The last chapter set forth the causes that led to war in 1870. That event found Germany fully
prepared. The lessons of the campaign of 1866 had not been lost upon the Prussian General Staff.
The artillery was improved alike in matériel and in drill-tactics, Napoleon I.'s plan of bringing
massed batteries to bear on decisive points being developed with Prussian thoroughness. The
cavalry learnt to scout effectively and act as "the eyes and ears of an army," as well as to
charge in brigades on a wavering foe. Universal military service had been compulsory in Prussia
since 1813; but the organisation of territorial army corps now received fuller development,
so that each part of Prussia, including, too, most of the North German Confederation, had its
own small army complete in all arms, and reinforced from the Reserve, and, at need, from the
Landwehr[35]. By virtue of the military conventions of 1866, the other German States adopted
a similar system, save that while Prussians served for three years (with few exceptions in
the case of successful examinees), the South Germans served with the colours for a shorter
period. Those conventions also secured uniformity, or harmony, in the railway arrangements
for the transport of troops.

[Footnote 35: By the Prussian law of November 9, 1867, soldiers had to serve three years with
the colours, four in the reserve, and five in the Landwehr. Three new army corps (9th, 10th,
and 11th) were formed in the newly annexed or confederated lands, Hanover, Hesse-Cassel, Saxony,
etc. (Maurice, The Franco-German War, 1900).]

The General Staff of the North German Army had used these advantages to the utmost, by preparing
a most complete plan of mobilisation--so complete, in fact, that the myriad orders had only
to be drawn from their pigeon-holes and dated in the last hours of July 15. Forthwith the whole
of the vast machinery started in swift but smooth working. Reservists speedily appeared at
their regimental depôts, there found their equipment, and speedily brought their regiments
up to the war footing; trains were ready, timed according to an elaborate plan, to carry them
Rhinewards; provisions and stores were sent forward, ohne Hast, ohne Rast, as the Germans say;
and so perfect were the plans on rail, river, and road, that none of those blocks occurred
which frequently upset the plans of the French. Thus, by dint of plodding preparation, a group
of federal States gained a decisive advantage over a centralised Empire which left too many
things to be arranged in the last few hours.

Herein lies the true significance of the War of 1870. All Governments that were not content
to jog along in the old military ruts saw the need of careful organisation, including the eventual
control of all needful means of transport; and all that were wise hastened to adapt their system
to the new order of things, which aimed at assuring the swift orderly movement of great masses
of men by all the resources of mechanical science. Most of the civilised States soon responded
to the new needs of the age; but a few (among them Great Britain) were content to make one
or two superficial changes and slightly increase the number of troops, while leaving the all-important
matter of organisation almost untouched; and that, too, despite the vivid contrast which every
one could see between the machine-like regularity of the German mobilisation and the chaos
that reigned on the French side.

Outwardly, the French army appeared to be beyond the reach of criticism. The troops had in
large measure seen active service in the various wars whereby Napoleon III. fulfilled his promise
of 1852--"The Empire is peace"; and their successes in the Crimea, Lombardy, Syria, and China,
everywhere in fact but Mexico, filled them with warlike pride. Armed with the chassepôt, a
newer and better rifle than the needle-gun, while their artillery (admittedly rather weak)
was strengthened by the mitrailleuse, they claimed to be the best in the world, and burned
to measure swords with the upstart forces of Prussia.

But there was a sombre reverse to this bright side. All thinking Frenchmen, including the Emperor,
were aware of grave defects--the lack of training of the officers[36], and the want of adaptability
in the General Staff, which had little of that practical knowledge that the German Staff secured
by periods of service with the troops. Add to this the leaven of republicanism working strongly
in the army as in the State, and producing distrust between officers and men; above all, the
lack of men and materials; and the outlook was not reassuring to those who knew the whole truth.
Inclusive of the levies of the year 1869, which were not quite ready for active service, France
would have by August 1, 1870, as many as 567,000 men in her regular army; but of these colonial,
garrison, and other duties claimed as many as 230,000--a figure which seems designed to include
the troops that existed only on paper. Not only the personnel but the matériel came far below
what was expected. General Leboeuf, the War Minister, ventured to declare that all was ready
even to the last button on the gaiters; but his boast at once rang false when at scores of
military depôts neither gaiters, boots, nor uniforms were ready for the reservists who needed them.

[Footnote 36: M. de la Gorce in his Histoire du second Empire, vol. vi., tells how the French
officers scouted study of the art of war, while most of them looked on favouritism as the only
means of promotion. The warnings of Colonel Stoffel, French Military Attaché at Berlin, were
passed over, as those of "a Prussomane, whom Bismarck had fascinated."]

Even where the organisation worked at its best, that best was slow and confused. There were
no territorial army corps in time of peace; and the lack of this organisation led to a grievous
waste of time and energy. Regiments were frequently far away from the depôts which contained
the reservists' equipment; and when these had found their equipment, they often wandered widely
before finding their regiments on the way to the frontier. One general officer hunted about
on the frontier for a command which did not exist. As a result of this lack of organisation,
and of that control over the railways which the Germans had methodically enforced, France lost
the many advantages which her compact territory and excellent railway system ought to have
ensured over her more straggling and poorer rival.

The loss of time was as fatal as it was singular under the rule of a Napoleon whose uncle had
so often shattered his foes by swift movements of troops. In 1870 Napoleonic France had nothing
but speed and dash on which to count. Numbers were against her. In 1869 Marshal Leboeuf had
done away with the Garde Mobile, a sort of militia which had involved only fifteen days' drill
in the year; and the Garde Nationale of the towns was less fit for campaigning than the re-formed
Mobiles proved to be later on in the war. Thus France had no reserves: everything rested on
the 330,000 men struggling towards the frontiers. It is doubtful whether there were more than
220,000 men in the first line by August 6, with some 50,000 more in reserve at Metz, etc.

Against them Germany could at once put into the field 460,000 infantry, 56,000 cavalry, with
1584 cannon; and she could raise these forces to some 1,180,000 men by calling out all the
reserves and Landwehr. These last were men who had served their time and had not, as a rule,
lost their soldierly qualities in civil life. Nearly 400,000 highly trained troops were ready
to invade France early in August.

In view of these facts it seems incredible that Ollivier, the French Prime Minister, could
have publicly stated that he entered on war with a light heart. Doubtless, Ministers counted
on help from Austria or Italy, perhaps from both; but, as it proved, they judged too hastily.
As was stated in Chapter I. of this work, Austria was not likely to move as long as Russia
favoured the cause of Prussia; for any threatening pressure of the Muscovites on the open flank
of the Hapsburg States, Galicia, has sufficed to keep them from embarking on a campaign in
the West. In this case, the statesmen of Vienna are said to have known by July 20 that Russia
would quietly help Prussia; she informed the Hapsburg Government that any increase in its armaments
would be met by a corresponding increase in those of Russia. The meaning of such a hint was
clear; and Austria decided not to seek revenge for Königgrätz unless the French triumph proved
to be overwhelming. As for Italy, her alliance with France alone was very improbable for the
reasons previously stated.

Another will o' the wisp which flitted before the ardent Bonapartists who pushed on the Emperor
to war, was that the South German States would forsake the North and range their troops under
the French eagles, as they had done in the years 1805-12. The first plan of campaign drawn
up at Paris aimed at driving a solid wedge of French troops between the two Confederations
and inducing or compelling the South to join France; it was hoped that Saxony would follow.
As a matter of fact, very many of the South Germans and Saxons disliked Prussian supremacy;
Catholic Bavaria looked askance at the growing power of Protestant Prussia. Würtemberg was
Protestant, but far too democratic to wish for the control of the cast-iron bureaucrats of
Berlin. The same was even more true of Saxony, where hostility to Prussia was a deep-rooted
tradition; some of the Saxon troops on leaving their towns even shouted Napoleon soll leben[37].
It is therefore quite possible that, had France struck quickly at the valleys of the Neckar
and Main, she might have reduced the South German States to neutrality. Alliance perhaps was
out of the question save under overwhelming compulsion; for France had alienated the Bavarian
and Hessian Governments by her claims in 1866, and the South German people by her recent offensive
treatment of the Hohenzollern candidature. It is, however, safe to assert that if Napoleon
I. had ordered French affairs he would have swept the South Germans into his net a month after
the outbreak of war, as he had done in 1805. But Nature had not bestowed warlike gifts on the
nephew, who took command of the French army at Metz at the close of July 1870. His feeble health,
alternating with periods of severe pain, took from him all that buoyancy which lends life to
an army and vigour to the headquarters; and his Chief of Staff, Leboeuf, did not make good
the lack of these qualities in the nominal chief.

[Footnote 37: I.e. "Long live Napoleon." The author had this from an Englishman who was then
living in Saxony.]

All the initiative and vigour were on the east of the Rhine. The spread of the national principle
to Central and South Germany had recently met with several checks; but the diplomatic blunders
of the French Government, the threats of their Press that the Napoleonic troops would repeat
the wonders of 1805; above all, admiration of the dignified conduct of King William under what
were thought to be gratuitous insults from France, began to kindle the flame of German patriotism
even in the particularists of the South. The news that the deservedly popular Crown Prince
of Prussia, Frederick William, would command the army now mustering in the Palatinate, largely
composed of South Germans, sent a thrill of joy through those States. Taught by the folly of
her stay-at-home strategy in 1866, Bavaria readily sent her large contingent beyond the Rhine;
and all danger of a French irruption into South Germany was ended by the speedy massing of
the Third German Army, some 200,000 strong in all, on the north of Alsace. For the French to
cross the Rhine at Speyer, or even at Kehl, in front of a greatly superior army (though as
yet they knew not its actual strength) was clearly impossible; and in the closing hours of
July the French headquarters fell back on other plans, which, speaking generally, were to defend
the French frontier from the Moselle to the Rhine by striking at the advanced German troops.
At least, that seems to be the most natural explanation of the sudden and rather flurried changes
then made.

It was wise to hide this change to a strategic defensive by assuming a tactical offensive;
and on August 2 two divisions of Frossard's corps attacked and drove back the advanced troops
of the Second German Army from Saarbrücken. The affair was unimportant: it could lead to nothing,
unless the French had the means of following up the success. This they had not; and the advance
of the First and Second German Armies, commanded by General Steinmetz and Prince Frederick
Charles, was soon to deprive them of this position.

Meanwhile the Germans were making ready a weighty enterprise. The muster of the huge Third
Army to the north of Alsace enabled their General Staff to fix August 4 for a general advance
against that frontier. It fell to this army, under the Crown Prince of Prussia, Frederick William,
to strike the first great blow. Early on August 4 a strong Bavarian division advanced against
the small fortified town of Weissenburg, which lies deep down in the valley of the Lauter,
surrounded by lofty hills. There it surprised a weak French division, the vanguard of MacMahon's
army, commanded by General Abel Douay, whose scouts had found no trace of the advancing enemy.
About 10 A.M. Douay fell, mortally wounded; another German division, working round the town
to the east, carried the strong position of the Geisberg; and these combined efforts, frontal
and on the flank, forced the French hastily to retreat westwards over the hills to Wörth, after
losing more than 2000 men.

The news of this reverse and of the large German forces ready to pour into the north of Alsace
led the Emperor to order the 7th French corps at Belfort, and the 5th in and around Bitsch,
to send reinforcements to MacMahon, whose main force held the steep and wooded hills between
the villages of Wörth, Fröschweiler, and Reichshofen. The line of railway between Strassburg
and Bitsch touches Reichshofen; but, for some reason that has never been satisfactorily explained,
MacMahon was able to draw up only one division from the side of Strassburg and Belfort, and
not one from Bitsch, which was within an easy march. The fact seems to be that de Failly, in
command at Bitsch, was a prey to conflicting orders from Metz, and therefore failed to bring
up the 5th corps as he should have done. MacMahon's cavalry was also very defective in scouting,
and he knew nothing as to the strength of the forces rapidly drawing near from Weissenburg
and the east.

Certainly his position at Wörth was very strong. The French lines were ranged along the steep
wooded slope running north and south, with buttress-like projections, intersected by gullies,
the whole leading up to a plateau on which stand the village of Fröschweiler and the hamlet
of Elsasshausen. Behind is the wood called the Grosser Wald, while the hamlet is flanked on
the south and in front by an outlying wood, the Niederwald. Behind the Grosser Wald the ground
sinks away to the valley in which runs the Bitsch-Reichshofen railway. In front of MacMahon's
position lay the village of Wörth, deep in the valley of the Sauerbach. The invader would therefore
have to carry this village or cross the stream, and press up the long open slopes on which
were ranged the French troops and batteries with all the advantages of cover and elevation
on their side. A poor general, having forces smaller than those of his enemy, might hope to
hold such a position. But there was one great defect. Owing to de Failly's absence MacMahon
had not enough men to hold the whole of the position marked out by Nature for defence.

Conscious of its strength, the Prussian Crown Prince ordered the leaders of his vanguard not
to bring on a general engagement on August 6, when the invading army had not at hand its full
striking strength[38]. But orders failed to hold in the ardour of the Germans under the attacks
of the French. Affairs of outposts along the Sauerbach early on that morning brought on a serious
fight, which up to noon went against the invaders. At that time the Crown Prince galloped to
the front, and ordered an attack with all available forces. The fighting, hitherto fierce but
spasmodic between division and division, was now fed by a steady stream of German reinforcements,
until 87,000 of the invaders sought to wrest from MacMahon the heights, with their woods and
villages, which he had but 54,000 to defend. The superiority of numbers soon made itself felt.
Pursuant to the Crown Prince's orders, parts of two Bavarian corps began to work their way
(but with one strangely long interval of inaction) through the wood to the north of the French
left wing; on the Prussian 11th corps fell the severer task of winning their way up the slopes
south of Wörth, and thence up to the Niederwald and Elsasshausen. When these woods were won,
the 5th corps was to make its frontal attack from Wörth against Fröschweiler. Despite the desperate
efforts of the French and their Turco regiments, and a splendid but hopeless charge of two
regiments of Cuirassiers and one of Lancers against the German infantry, the Niederwald and
Elsasshausen were won; and about four o'clock the sustained fire of fifteen German batteries
against Fröschweiler enabled the 5th corps to struggle up that deadly glacis in spite of desperate
charges by the defenders.

[Footnote 38: See von Blumenthal's Journals, p. 87 (Eng. edit.): "The battle which I had expected
to take place on the 7th, and for which I had prepared a good scheme for turning the enemy's
right flank, came on of itself to-day."]

Throughout the day the French showed their usual dash and devotion, some regiments being cut
to pieces rather than retire. But by five o'clock the defence was outflanked on the two wings
and crushed at the centre; human nature could stand no more after eight hours' fighting; and
after a final despairing effort of the French Cuirassiers all their line gave way in a general
rout down the slopes to Reichshofen and towards Saverne. Apart from the Würtembergers held
in reserve, few of the Germans were in a condition to press the pursuit. Nevertheless the fruits
of victory were very great: 10,000 Frenchmen lay dead or wounded; 6000 unwounded prisoners
were taken, with 28 cannon and 5 mitrailleuses. Above all, MacMahon's fine army was utterly
broken, and made no attempt to defend any of the positions on the north of the Vosges. Not
even a tunnel was there blown up to delay the advance of the Germans. Hastily gathering up
the 5th corps from Bitsch--the corps which ought to have been at Wörth--that gallant but unfortunate
general struck out to the south-west for the great camp at Châlons. The triumph, however, cost
the Germans dear. As many as 10,600 men were killed or wounded, the 5th Prussian corps alone
losing more than half that number. Their cavalry failed to keep touch with the retreating French.

On that same day (August 6) a disaster scarcely less serious overtook the French 2nd corps,
which had been holding Saarbrücken. Convinced that that post was too advanced and too weak
in presence of the foremost divisions of the First and Second German Armies now advancing rapidly
against it, General Frossard drew back his vanguard some mile and a half to the line of steep
hills between Spicheren and Forbach, just within the French frontier. This retreat, as it seemed,
tempted General Kameke to attack with a single division, as he was justified in doing in order
to find the direction and strength of the retiring force. The attack, when pushed home, showed
that the French were bent on making a stand on their commanding heights; and an onset on the
Rothe Berg was stoutly beaten off about noon.

But now the speedy advance and intelligent co-operation of other German columns was instrumental
in turning an inconsiderable repulse into an important victory. General Göben was not far off,
and marching towards the firing, sent to offer his help with the 8th corps. General von Alvensleben,
also, with the 3rd corps had reached Neunkirchen when the sound of firing near Saarbrücken
led him to push on for that place with the utmost speed. He entrained part of his corps and
brought it up in time to strengthen the attack on the Rothe Berg and other heights nearer to
Forbach. Each battalion as it arrived was hurled forward, and General von François, charging
with his regiment, gained a lodgment half-way up the broken slope of the Rothe Berg, which
was stoutly maintained even when he fell mortally wounded. Elsewhere the onsets were repelled
by the French, who, despite their smaller numbers, kept up a sturdy resistance on the line
of hills in the woods behind, and in the iron-works in front of Forbach. Even when the Germans
carried the top of the Rothe Berg, their ranks were riddled by a cross fire; but by incredible
exertions they managed to bring guns to the summit and retaliate with effect[39].

[Footnote 39: For these details about the fighting at the Rothe Berg I am largely indebted
to my friend, Mr. Bernard Pares, M.A., who has made a careful study of the ground there, as
also at Wörth and Sedan.]

This, together with the outflanking movement which their increasing numbers enabled them to
carry out against the French left wing at Forbach, decided the day; and Frossard's corps fell
back shattered towards the corps of Bazaine. It is noteworthy that this was but nine or ten
miles to the rear. Bazaine had ordered three divisions to march towards the firing: one made
for a wrong point and returned; the others made half-hearted efforts, and thus left Frossard
to be overborne by numbers. The result of these disjointed movements was that both Frossard
and Bazaine hurriedly retired towards Metz, while the First and Second German Armies now gathered
up all their strength with the aim of shutting up the French in that fortress. To this end
the First Army made for Colombey, east of Metz, while the leading part of the Second Army purposed
to cross the Moselle south of Metz, and circle round that stronghold on the west.

It is now time to turn to the French headquarters. These two crushing defeats on a single day
utterly dashed Napoleon's plan of a spirited defence of the north-east frontier, until such
time as the levies of 1869 should be ready, or Austria and Italy should draw the sword. On
July 26 the Austrian ambassador assured the French Ministry that Austria was pushing on her
preparations. Victor Emmanuel was with difficulty restrained by his Ministers from openly taking
the side of France. On the night of August 6 he received telegraphic news of the Battles of
Wörth and Forbach, whereupon he exclaimed, "Poor Emperor! I pity him, but I have had a lucky
escape." Austria also drew back, and thus left France face to face with the naked truth that
she stood alone and unready before a united and triumphant Germany, able to pour treble her
own forces through the open portals of Lorraine and northern Alsace.

Napoleon III., to do him justice, had never cherished the wild dreams that haunted the minds
of his consort and of the frothy "Mamelukes" lately in favour at Court; still less did the
"silent man of destiny" indulge in the idle boasts that had helped to alienate the sympathy
of Europe and to weld together Germany to withstand the blows of a second Napoleonic invasion.
The nephew knew full well that he was not the Great Napoleon--he knew it before Victor Hugo
in spiteful verse vainly sought to dub him the Little. True, his statesmanship proved to be
mere dreamy philosophising about nationalities; his administrative powers, small at the best,
were ever clogged by his too generous desire to reward his fellow-conspirators of the coup
d'état of 1851; and his gifts for war were scarcely greater than those of the other Napoléonides,
Joseph and Jerome. Nevertheless the reverses of his early life had strengthened that fund of
quiet stoicism, that energy to resist if not to dare, which formed the backbone of an otherwise
somewhat weak, shadowy, and uninspiring character. And now, in the rapid fall of his fortunes,
the greatest adventurer of the nineteenth century showed to the full those qualities of toughness
and dignified reserve which for twenty years had puzzled and imposed on that lively emotional
people. By the side of the downcast braggarts of the Court and the unstrung screamers of the
Parisian Press, his mien had something of the heroic. Tout peut se rétablir--"All may yet be
set right"--such was the vague but dignified phrase in which he summarised the results of August
6 to his people.

The military situation now required a prompt retirement beyond the Moselle. The southerly line
of retreat, which MacMahon and de Failly had been driven to take, forbade the hope of their
junction with the main army at Metz in time to oppose a united front to the enemy. And it was
soon known that their flight could not be stayed at Nancy or even at Toul. During the agony
of suspense as to their movements and those of their German pursuers, the Emperor daily changed
his plans. First, he and Leboeuf planned a retreat beyond the Moselle and Meuse; next, political
considerations bade them stand firm on the banks of the Nied, some twelve miles east of Metz;
and when this position seemed unsafe, they ended the marchings and counter-marchings of their
troops by taking up a position at Colombey, nearer to Metz.

Meanwhile at Paris the Chamber of Deputies had overthrown the Ollivier Ministry, and the Empress-Regent
installed in office Count Palikao. There was a general outcry against Leboeuf, and on the 12th
the Emperor resigned the command to Marshal Bazaine (Lebrun now acting as Chief of Staff),
with the injunction to retreat westwards to Verdun. For the Emperor to order such a retreat
in his own name was thought to be inopportune. Bazaine was a convenient scapegoat, and he himself
knew it. Had he thrown an army corps into Metz and obeyed the Emperor's orders by retreating
on Verdun, things would certainly have gone better than was now to be the case. In his printed
defence Bazaine has urged that the army had not enough provisions for the march, and, further,
that the outlying forts of Metz were not yet ready to withstand a siege--a circumstance which,
if true, partly explains Bazaine's reluctance to leave the "virgin city[40]." Napoleon III.
quitted it early on the 16th: he and his escort were the last Frenchmen to get free of that
death-trap for many a week.

[Footnote 40: Bazaine gave this excuse in his Rapport sommaire sur les Opérations de l'Armée
du Rhin; but as a staff-officer pointed out in his incisive Réponse, this reason must have
been equally cogent when Napoleon (August 12) ordered him to retreat; and he was still bound
to obey the Emperor's orders.]

While Metz exercised this fatal fascination over the protecting army, the First and Second
German Armies were striding westwards to envelop both the city and its guardians. Moltke's
aim was to hold as many of the French to the neighbourhood of the fortress, while his left
wing swung round it on the south. The result was the battle of Colombey on the east of Metz
(August 14). It was a stubborn fight, costing the Germans some 5000 men, while the French with
smaller losses finally withdrew under the eastern walls of Metz. But that heavy loss meant
a great ultimate gain to Germany. The vacillations of Bazaine, whose strategy was far more
faulty than that of Napoleon III. had been, together with the delay caused by the defiling
of a great part of the army through the narrow streets of Metz, gave the Germans an opportunity
such as had not occurred since the year 1805, when Napoleon I. shut up an Austrian army in Ulm.

The man who now saw the splendid chance of which Fortune vouchsafed a glimpse, was Lieutenant-General
von Alvensleben, Commander of the 3rd corps, whose activity and resource had so largely contributed
to the victory of Spicheren-Forbach. Though the orders of his Commander-in-Chief, Prince Frederick
Charles, forbade an advance until the situation in front was more fully known, the General
heard enough to convince himself that a rapid advance southwards to and over the Moselle might
enable him to intercept the French retreat on Verdun, which might now be looked on as certain.
Reporting his conviction to his chief as also to the royal headquarters, he struck out with
all speed on the 15th, quietly threw a bridge over the river, and sent on his advanced guard
as far as Pagny, near Gorze, while all his corps, about 33,000 strong, crossed the river about
midnight. Soon after dawn, he pushed on towards Gorze, knowing by this time that the other
corps of the Second Army were following him, while the 7th and 8th corps of the First Army
were about to cross the river nearly opposite that town.

This bold movement, which would have drawn on him sharp censure in case of overthrow, was more
than justifiable seeing the discouraged state of the French troops, the supreme need of finding
their line of retreat, and the splendid results that must follow on the interception of that
retreat. The operations of war must always be attended with risk, and the great commander is
he whose knowledge of the principles of strategy enables him quickly to see when the final
gain warrants the running of risks, and how they may be met with the least likelihood of disaster.

Alvensleben's advance was in accordance with Moltke's general plan of operations; but that
corps-leader, finding the French to be in force between him and Metz, determined to attack
them in order to delay their retreat. The result was the battle of August 16, variously known
as Vionville, Rezonville, or Mars-la-Tour--a battle that defies brief description, inasmuch
as it represented the effort of the Third, or Brandenburg, corps, with little help at first
from others, to hold its ground against the onsets of two French corps. Early in the fight
Bazaine galloped up, but he did not bring forward the masses in his rear, probably because
he feared to be cut off from Metz. Even so, all through the forenoon, it seemed that the gathering
forces of the French must break through the thin lines audaciously thrust into that almost
open plain on the flank of their line of march. But Alvensleben and his men held their ground
with a dogged will that nothing could shatter. In one sense their audacity saved them. Bazaine
for a long time could not believe that a single corps would throw itself against one of the
two roads by which his great army was about to retreat. He believed that the northern road
might also be in danger, and therefore did not launch at Alvensleben the solid masses that
must have swept him back towards the Meuse. At noon four battalions of the German 10th corps
struggled up from the south and took their share of the hitherto unequal fight.

But the crisis of the fight came a little later. It was marked by one of the most daring and
effective strokes ever dealt in modern warfare. At 2 o'clock, when the advance of Canrobert's
6th corps towards Vionville threatened to sweep away the wearied Brandenburgers, six squadrons
of the 7th regiment of Cuirassiers with a few Uhlans flung themselves on the new lines of foemen,
not to overpower them--that was impossible--but to delay their advance and weaken their impact.
Only half of the brave horsemen returned from that ride of death, but they gained their end.

The mad charge drove deep into the French array about Rezonville, and gave their leaders pause
in the belief that it was but the first of a series of systematic attacks on the French left.
System rather than dash was supposed to characterise German tactics; and the daring of their
enemies for once made the French too methodical. Bazaine scarcely brought the 3rd corps and
the Guard into action at all, but kept them in reserve. As the afternoon sun waned, the whole
weight of the German 10th corps was thrown into the fight about Vionville, and the vanguards
of the 8th and 9th came up from Gorze to threaten the French left. Fearing that he might be
cut off from Metz on the south--a fear which had unaccountably haunted him all the day--Bazaine
continued to feed that part of his lines; and thus Alvensleben was able to hold the positions
near the southern road to Verdun, which he had seized in the morning. The day closed with a
great cavalry combat on the German left wing in which the French had to give way. Darkness
alone put an end to the deadly strife. Little more than two German corps had sufficed to stay
the march of an army which potentially numbered in all more than 170,000 men.

On both sides the losses were enormous, namely, some 16,000 killed and wounded. No cannon,
standards, or prisoners were taken; but on that day the army of Prince Frederick Charles practically
captured the whole of Bazaine's army. The statement may seem overdrawn, but it is none the
less true. The advance of other German troops on that night made Bazaine's escape from Metz
far more difficult than before, and very early on the morrow he drew back his lines through
Gravelotte to a strong position nearer Metz. Thus, a battle, which in a tactical sense seemed
to be inconclusive, became, when viewed in the light of strategy, the most decisive of the
war. Had Bazaine used even the forces which he had in the field ready to hand he must have
overborne Alvensleben; and the arrival of 170,000 good troops at Verdun or Châlons would have
changed the whole course of the war. The campaign would probably have followed the course of
the many campaigns waged in the valleys of the Meuse and Marne; and Metz, held by a garrison
of suitable size, might have defied the efforts of a large besieging army for fully six months.
These conjectures are not fanciful. The duration of the food supply of a garrison cut off from
the outside world varies inversely with the size of that garrison. The experiences of armies
invading and defending the East of France also show with general accuracy what might have been
expected if the rules of sound strategy had been observed. It was the actual course of events
which transcended experience and set all probabilities at defiance.

The battle of Gravelotte, or St. Privat, on the 18th completed the work so hardily begun by
the 3rd German corps on the 16th. The need of driving back Bazaine's army upon Metz was pressing,
and his inaction on the 17th gave time for nearly all the forces of the First and Second German
Armies to be brought up to the German positions, some nine miles west of Metz, though one corps
was left to the east of that fortress to hinder any attempt of the French to break out on that
side. Bazaine, however, massed his great army on the west along a ridge stretching north and
south, and presenting, especially in the southern half, steep slopes to the assailants. It
also sloped away to the rear, thus enabling the defenders (as was the case with Wellington
at Waterloo) secretly to reinforce any part of the line. On the French left wing, too, the
slopes curved inward, thus giving the defenders ample advantage against any flanking movements
on that side. On the north, between Amanvillers and Ste. Marie-aux-Chênes, the defence had
fewer strong points except those villages, the Jaumont Wood, and the gradual slope of the ground
away to the little River Orne, which formed an open glacis. Bazaine massed his reserves on
the plateau of Plappeville and to the rear of his left wing; but this cardinal fault in his
dispositions--due to his haunting fear of being cut off from Metz--was long hidden by the woods
and slopes in the rear of his centre. The position here and on the French left was very strong,
and at several parts so far concealed the troops that up to 11 A.M. the advancing Germans were
in doubt whether the French would not seek to break away towards the north-west. That so great
an army would remain merely on the defensive, a course so repugnant to the ardour of the French
nature and the traditions of their army, entered into the thoughts of few.

Yet such was the case. The solution of the riddle is to be found in Bazaine's despatch of August
17 to the Minister of War: "We are going to put forth every effort to make good our supplies
of all kinds in order to resume our march in two days if that is possible[41]." That the army
was badly hampered by lack of stores is certain; but to postpone even for a single day the
march to Verdun by the northern road--that by way of Briey--was fatal. Possibly, however, he
hoped to deal the Germans so serious a blow, if they attacked him on the 18th, as to lighten
the heavy task of cutting his way out on the 19th.

[Footnote 41: Bazaine, Rapport sommaire, etc. The sentence quoted above is decisive. The defence
which Bazaine and his few defenders later on put forward, as well as the attacks of his foes,
are of course mixed up with theories evolved after the event.]

If so, he nearly succeeded. The Germans were quite taken aback by the extent and strength of
his lines. Their intention was to outflank his right wing, which was believed to stretch no
further north than Amanvillers; but the rather premature advance of Manstein's 9th corps soon
drew a deadly fire from that village and the heights on either side, which crushed the artillery
of that corps. Soon the Prussian Guards and the 12th corps began to suffer from the fire poured
in from the trenches that crowned the hill. On the German right, General Steinmetz, instead
of waiting for the hoped-for flank attack on the north to take effect, sent the columns of
the First Army to almost certain death in the defile in front of Gravelotte, and he persisted
in these costly efforts even when the strength of the French position on that side was patent
to all. For this the tough old soldier met with severe censure and ultimate disgrace. In his
defence, however, it may be urged that when a great battle is raging with doubtful fortunes,
the duty of a commander on the attacking side is to busy the enemy at as many points as possible,
so that the final blow may be dealt with telling effect on a vital point where he cannot be
adequately reinforced; and the bull-dog tactics of Steinmetz in front of Gravelotte, which
cost the assailants many thousands of men, at any rate served to keep the French reserves on
that side, and thereby weaken the support available for a more important point at the crisis
of the fight. It so happened, too, that the action of Steinmetz strengthened the strange misconception
of Bazaine that the Germans were striving to cut him off from Metz on the south.

The real aim of the Germans was exactly the contrary, namely, to pin his whole army to Metz
by swinging round their right flank on the villages of St. Privat and Raucourt. Having some
40,000 men under Canrobert in and between these villages, whose solid buildings gave the defence
the best of cover, Bazaine had latterly taken little thought for that part of his lines, though
it was dangerously far removed from his reserves. These he kept on the south, under the misconception
which clung to him here as at Rezonville.

The mistake was to prove fatal. As we have said, the German plan was to turn the French right
wing in the more open country on the north. To this end the Prussian Guards and the Saxons,
after driving the French outposts from Ste. Marie-aux-Chênes, brought all their strength to
the task of crushing the French at their chief stronghold on the right, St. Privat. The struggle
of the Prussian Guards up the open slope between that village and Amanvillers left them a mere
shadow of their splendid array; but the efforts of the German artillery cost the defenders
dear: by seven o'clock St. Privat was in flames, and as the Saxons (the 12th corps), wheeling
round from the north after a long flank-march, closed in on the outlying village of Raucourt,
Canrobert saw that the day was lost unless he received prompt aid from the Imperial Guard.
Bourbaki, however, brought up only some 3000 of these choice troops, and that too late to save
St. Privat from the persistent fury of the German onset.

As dusk fell over the scene of carnage the French right fell back in some disorder, even from
part of Amanvillers. Farther south, they held their ground. On the whole they had dealt to
their foes a loss of 20,159 men, or nearly a tenth of their total. Of the French forces engaged,
some 150,000 in number, 7853 were killed and wounded, and 4419 were taken prisoners. The disproportion
in the losses shows the toughness of the French defence and the (in part) unskilful character
of the German attack. On this latter point the recently published Journals of Field-Marshal
Count von Blumenthal supply some piquant details. He describes the indignation of King William
at the wastefulness of the German tactics at Gravelotte: "He complained bitterly that the officers
of the higher grades appeared to have forgotten all that had been so carefully taught them
at manoeuvres, and had apparently all lost their heads." The same authority supplies what may
be in part an explanation of this in his comment, written shortly before Gravelotte, that he
believed there might not be another battle in the whole war--a remark which savours of presumption
and folly. Gravelotte, therefore, cannot be considered as wholly creditable to the victors.
Still, the result was that some 180,000 French troops were shut up within the outworks of Metz[42].

[Footnote 42: For fuller details of these battles the student should consult the two great
works on the subject--the Staff Histories of the war, issued by the French and German General
Staffs; Bazaine, L'Armée du Rhin, and Episodes de la Guerre; General Blumenthal's Journals;
Aus drei Kriegen, by Gen. von Lignitz; Maurice, The Franco-German War; Hooper, The Campaign
of Sedan; the War Correspondence of the Times and the Daily News, published in book form.]

NOTE THE SECOND EDITION

With reference to M. Ollivier's statement (quoted on p. 55) that he entered on war with a light
heart, it should be added that he has since explained his meaning to have been that the cause
of France was just, that of Prussia unjust.

CHAPTER III

SEDAN

     "Nothing is more rash and contrary to the principles of war
     than to make a flank-march before an army in position,
     especially when this army occupies heights before which it is
     necessary to defile."--NAPOLEON I.

The success of the German operations to the south and west of Metz virtually decided the whole
of the campaign. The Germans could now draw on their vast reserves ever coming on from the
Rhine, throw an iron ring around that fortress, and thereby deprive France of her only great
force of regular troops. The throwing up of field-works and barricades went on with such speed
that the blockading forces were able in a few days to detach a strong column towards Châlons-sur-Marne
in order to help the army of the Crown Prince of Prussia. That army in the meantime was in
pursuit of MacMahon by way of Nancy, and strained every nerve so as to be able to strike at
the southern railway lines out of Paris. It was, however, diverted to the north-west by events
soon to be described.

The German force detached from the neighbourhood of Metz consisted of the Prussian Guards,
the 4th and 12th corps, and two cavalry divisions. This army, known as the Army of the Meuse,
was placed under the command of the Crown Prince of Saxony. Its aim was, in common with the
Third German Army (that of the Crown Prince of Prussia), to strike at MacMahon before he received
reinforcements. The screen of cavalry which preceded the Army of the Meuse passed that river
on the 22nd, when the bulk of the forces of the Crown Prince of Prussia crossed not many miles
farther to the south. The two armies swept on westwards within easy distance of one another;
and on the 23rd their cavalry gleaned news of priceless value, namely, that MacMahon's army
had left Châlons. On the next day the great camp was found deserted.

In fact, MacMahon had undertaken a task of terrible difficulty. On taking over the command
at Châlons, where Napoleon III. arrived from Metz on the 16th, he found hopeless disorder not
only among his own beaten troops, but among many of the newcomers; the worst were the Garde
Mobile, many regiments of whom greeted the Emperor with shouts of À Paris. To meet the Germans
in the open plains of Champagne with forces so incoherent and dispirited was sheer madness;
and a council of war on the 17th came to the conclusion to fall back on the capital and operate
within its outer forts--a step which might enable the army to regain confidence, repress any
rising in the capital, and perhaps inflict checks on the Germans, until the provinces rose
en masse against the invaders. But at this very time the Empress-Regent and the Palikao Ministry
at Paris came to an exactly contrary decision, on the ground that the return of the Emperor
with MacMahon's army would look like personal cowardice and a mean desertion of Bazaine at
Metz. The Empress was for fighting à outrance, and her Government issued orders for a national
rising and the enrolling of bodies of irregulars, or francs-tireurs, to harass the Germans[43].

[Footnote 43: See General Lebrun's Guerre de 1870: Bazailles-Sedan, for an account of his corps
of MacMahon's army.

In view of the events of the late Boer War, it is worth noting that the Germans never acknowledged
the francs-tireurs as soldiers, and forthwith issued an order ending with the words, "They
are amenable to martial law and liable to be sentenced to death" (Maurice, Franco-German War,
p. 215).]

Their decision was telegraphed to Napoleon III. at Châlons. Against his own better judgment
the Emperor yielded to political considerations--that mill-stone around the neck of the French
army in 1870--and decided to strike out to the north with MacMahon's army, and by way of Montmédy
stretch a hand to Bazaine, who, on his side, was expected to make for that rendezvous. On the
21st, therefore, they marched to Reims. There the Emperor received a despatch which Bazaine
had been able to get through the enemies' lines on the 19th, stating that the Germans were
making their way in on Metz, but that he (Bazaine) hoped to break away towards Montmédy and
so join MacMahon's army. (This, it will be observed, was after Gravelotte had been lost.) Napoleon
III. thereupon replied: "Received yours of the 19th at Reims; am going towards Montmédy; shall
be on the Aisne the day after to-morrow, and there will act according to circumstances to come
to your aid." Bazaine did not receive this message until August 30, and then made only two
weak efforts to break out on the north (August 31-September 1). The Marshal's action in sending
that message must be pronounced one of the most fatal in the whole war. It led the Emperor
and MacMahon to a false belief as to the position at Metz, and furnished a potent argument
to the Empress and Palikao at Paris to urge a march towards Montmédy at all costs.

Doubtfully MacMahon led his straggling array from Reims in a north-easterly direction towards
Stenay on the Meuse. Rain checked his progress, and dispirited the troops; but on the 27th
August, while about half-way between the Aisne and the Meuse, his outposts touched those of
the enemy. They were, in fact, those of the Prussian Crown Prince, whose army was about to
cross the northern roads over the Argonne, the line of hills that saw the French stem the Prussian
invasion in 1792. Far different was the state of affairs now. National enthusiasm, organisation,
enterprise--all were on the side of the invaders. As has been pointed out, their horsemen found
out on the 23rd that the Châlons camp was deserted; on the next day their scouts found out
from a Parisian newspaper that MacMahon was at Reims; and, on the day following, newspaper
tidings that had come round by way of London revealed the secret that MacMahon was striving
to reach Bazaine.

How it came about that this news escaped the eye of the censor has not been explained. If it
was the work of an English journalist, that does not absolve the official censorship from the
charge of gross carelessness in leaving even a loophole for the transmission of important secrets.
Newspaper correspondents, of course, are the natural enemies of Governments in time of war;
and the experience of the year 1870 shows that the fate of Empires may depend on the efficacy
of the arrangements for controlling them. As a proof of the superiority of the German organisation,
or of the higher patriotism of their newspapers, we may mention that no tidings of urgent importance
leaked out through the German Press. This may have been due to a solemn declaration made by
German newspaper editors and correspondents that they would never reveal such secrets; but,
from what we know of the fierce competition of newspapers for priority of news, it is reasonable
to suppose that the German Government took very good care that none came in their way.

As a result of the excellent scouting of their cavalry and of the slipshod Press arrangements
of the French Government, the German Army of the Meuse, on the 26th, took a general turn towards
the north-west. This movement brought its outposts near to the southernmost divisions of MacMahon,
and sent through that Marshal's staff the foreboding thrill felt by the commander of an unseaworthy
craft at the oncoming of the first gust of a cyclone. He saw the madness of holding on his
present course and issued orders for a retreat to Mézières, a fortress on the Meuse below Sedan.
Once more, however, the Palikao Ministry intervened to forbid this salutary move--the only
way out of imminent danger--and ordered him to march to the relief of Bazaine. At this crisis
Napoleon III. showed the good sense which seemed to have deserted the French politicians: he
advised the Marshal not to obey this order if he thought it dangerous. Nevertheless, MacMahon
decided to yield to the supposed interests of the dynasty, which the Emperor was ready to sacrifice
to the higher claims of the safety of France. Their rôles were thus curiously reversed. The
Emperor reasoned as a sound patriot and a good strategist. MacMahon must have felt the same
promptings, but obedience to the Empress and the Ministry, or chivalrous regard for Bazaine,
overcame his scruples. He decided to plod on towards the Meuse.

The Germans were now on the alert to entrap this army that exposed its flank in a long line
of march near to the Belgian frontier. Their ubiquitous horsemen captured French despatches
which showed them the intended moves in MacMahon's desperate game; Moltke hurried up every
available division; and the elder of the two Alvenslebens had the honour of surprising de Failly's
corps amidst the woods of the Ardennes near Beaumont, as they were in the midst of a meal.
The French rallied and offered a brisk defence, but finally fell back in confusion northwards
on Mouzon, with the loss of 2000 prisoners and 42 guns (August 30).

This mishap, the lack of provisions, and the fatigue and demoralisation of his troops, caused
MacMahon on the 31st to fall back on Sedan, a little town in the valley of the Meuse. It is
surrounded by ramparts planned by the great Vauban, but, being commanded by wooded heights,
it no longer has the importance that it possessed before the age of long-range guns of precision.
The chief strength of the position for defence lay in the deep loop of the river below the
town, the dense Garenne Wood to the north-east, and the hollow formed by the Givonne brook
on the east, with the important village of Bazeilles. It is therefore not surprising that von
Moltke, on seeing the French forces concentrating in this hollow, remarked to von Blumenthal,
Chief of the Staff: "Now we have them in a trap; to-morrow we must cross over the Meuse early
in the morning."

The Emperor and MacMahon seem even then, on the afternoon of the 31st, to have hoped to give
their weary troops a brief rest, supply them with provisions and stores from the fortress,
and on the morrow, or the 2nd, make their escape by way of Mézières. Possibly they might have
done so on that night, and certainly they could have reached the Belgian frontier, only some
six miles distant, and there laid down their arms to the Belgian troops whom the resourceful
Bismarck had set on the qui vive. To remain quiet even for a day in Sedan was to court disaster;
yet passivity characterised the French headquarters and the whole army on that afternoon and
evening. True, MacMahon gave orders for the bridge over the Meuse at Donchéry to be blown up,
but the engine-driver who took the engineers charged with this important task, lost his nerve
when German shells whizzed about his engine, and drove off before the powder and tools could
be deposited. A second party, sent later on, found that bridge in the possession of the enemy.
On the east side, above Sedan, the Bavarians seized the railway bridge south of Bazeilles,
driving off the French who sought to blow it up[44].

[Footnote 44: Moltke, The Franco-German War, vol. i. p. 114. Hooper, The Campaign of Sedan,
p. 296.]

Over the Donchéry bridge and two pontoon bridges constructed below that village the Germans
poured their troops before dawn of September 1, and as the morning fog of that day slowly lifted,
their columns were seen working round the north of the deep loop of the Meuse, thus cutting
off escape on the west and north-west. Meanwhile, on the other side of the town, von der Tann's
Bavarians had begun the fight. Pressing in on Bazeilles so as to hinder the retreat of the
enemy (as had been so effectively done at Colombey, on the east of Metz), they at first surprised
the sleeping French, but quickly drew on themselves a sharp and sustained counter-attack from
the marines attached to the 12th French corps.

In order to understand the persistent vigour of the French on this side, we must note the decisions
formed by their headquarters on August 31 and early on September 1. At a council of war held
on the afternoon of the 31st no decision was reached, probably because the exhaustion of the
5th and 7th corps and the attack of the Bavarians on the 12th corps at Bazeilles rendered any
decided movement very difficult. The general conclusion was that the army must have some repose;
and Germans afterwards found on the battlefield a French order--"Rest to-day for the whole
army." But already on the 30th an officer had come from Paris determined to restore the morale
of the army and break through towards Bazaine. This was General de Wimpffen, who had gained
distinction in previous wars, and, coming lately from Algeria to Paris, was there appointed
to supersede de Failly in command of the 5th corps. Nor was this all. The Palikao Ministry
apparently had some doubts as to MacMahon's energy, and feared that the Emperor himself hampered
the operations. De Wimpffen therefore received an unofficial mandate to infuse vigour into
the counsels at headquarters, and was entrusted with a secret written order to take over the
supreme command if anything were to happen to MacMahon. On taking command of the 5th corps
on the 30th, de Wimpffen found it demoralised by the hurried retreat through Mouzon; but neither
this fact nor the exhaustion of the whole army abated the determination of this stalwart soldier
to break through towards Metz.

Early on September 1 the positions held by the French formed, roughly speaking, a triangle
resting on the right bank of the Meuse from, near Bazeilles to Sedan and Glaire. Damming operations
and the heavy rains of previous days had spread the river over the low-lying meadows, thus
rendering it difficult, if not impossible, for an enemy to cross under fire; but this same
fact lessened the space by which the French could endeavour to break through. Accordingly they
deployed their forces almost wholly along the inner slopes of the Givonne brook and of the
smaller stream that flows from the high land about Illy down to the village of Floing and thence
to the Meuse. The heights of Illy, crowned by the Calvaire, formed the apex of the French position,
while Floing and Bazeilles formed the other corners of what was in many respects good fighting-ground.
Their strength was about 120,000 men, though many of these were disabled or almost helpless
from fatigue; that of the Germans was greater on the whole, but three of their corps could
not reach the scene of action before 1 P.M. owing to the heaviness of the roads[45]. At first,
then, the French had a superiority of force and a far more compact position, as will be seen
by the accompanying plan.

[Footnote 45: Maurice, The Franco-German War, p. 235.]

We now resume the account of the battle. The fighting in and around Bazeilles speedily led
to one very important result. At 6 A.M. a splinter of a shell fired by the assailants from
the hills north-east of that village, severely wounded Marshal MacMahon as he watched the conflict
from a point in front of the village of Balan. Thereupon he named General Ducrot as his successor,
passing over the claims of two generals senior to him. Ducrot, realising the seriousness of
the position, prepared to draw off the troops towards the Calvaire of Illy preparatory to a
retreat on Mézières by way of St. Menges. The news of this impending retreat, which must be
conducted under the hot fire of the Germans now threatening the line of the Givonne, cut de
Wimpffen to the quick. He knew that the Crown Prince held a force to the south-west of Sedan,
ready to fall on the flank of any force that sought to break away to Mézières; and a temporary
success of his own 5th corps against the Saxons in la Moncelle strengthened his prepossession
in favour of a combined move eastwards towards Carignan and Metz. Accordingly, about nine o'clock
he produced the secret order empowering him to succeed MacMahon should the latter be incapacitated.
Ducrot at once yielded to the ministerial ukase; the Emperor sought to intervene in favour
of Ducrot, only to be waved aside by the confident de Wimpffen; and thus the long conflict
between MacMahon and the Palikao Ministry ended in victory for the latter--and disaster for
France[46].

[Footnote 46: See Lebrun's Guerre de 1870: Bazeilles-Sédan, for these disputes.] In hazarding
this last statement we do not mean to imply that a retreat on Mézières would then have saved
the whole army. It might, however, have enabled part of it to break through either to Mézières
or the Belgian boundary; and it is possible that Ducrot had the latter objective in view when
he ordered the concentration at Illy. In any case, that move was now countermanded in favour
of a desperate attack on the eastern assailants. It need hardly be said that the result of
these vacillations was deplorable, unsteadying the defenders, and giving the assailants time
to bring up troops and cannon, and thereby strengthen their grip on every important point.
Especially valuable was the approach of the 2nd Bavarian corps; setting out from Raucourt at
4 A.M. it reached the hills south of Sedan about 9, and its artillery posted near Frénois began
a terrible fire on the town and the French troops near it.

About the same time the Second Division of the Saxons reinforced their hard-pressed comrades
to the north of la Moncelle, where, on de Wimpffen's orders, the French were making a strong
forward move. The opportune arrival of these new German troops saved their artillery, which
had been doing splendid service. The French were driven back across the Givonne with heavy
loss, and the massed battery of 100 guns crushed all further efforts at advance on this side.
Meanwhile at Bazeilles the marines had worthily upheld the honour of the French arms. Despite
the terrible artillery fire now concentrated on the village, they pushed the German footmen
back, but never quite drove them out. These, when reinforced, renewed the fight with equal
obstinacy; the inhabitants themselves joined in with whatever weapons fury suggested to them
and as that merciless strife swayed to and fro amidst the roar of artillery, the crash of walls,
and the hiss of flame, war was seen in all its naked ferocity.

Yet here again, as at all points, the defence was gradually overborne by the superiority of
the German artillery. About eleven o'clock the French, despite their superhuman efforts, were
outflanked by the Bavarians and Saxons on the north of the village. Even then, when the regulars
fell back, some of the inhabitants went on with their mad resistance; a great part of the village
was now in flames, but whether they were kindled by the Germans, or by the retiring French
so as to delay the victors, has never been cleared up. In either case, several of the inhabitants
perished in the flames; and it is admitted that the Bavarians burnt some of the villagers for
firing on them from the windows[47].

[Footnote 47: M. Busch, Bismarck in the Franco-German War, vol. i. p. 114.]

In the defence of Bazeilles the French infantry showed its usual courage and tenacity. Elsewhere
the weary and dispirited columns were speedily becoming demoralised under the terrific artillery
fire which the Germans poured in from many points of vantage. The Prussian Guards coming up
from Villers Cernay about 10 A.M. planted their formidable batteries so as to sweep the Bois
de Garenne and the ground about the Calvaire d'Illy from the eastward; and about that time
the guns of the 5th and 11th German corps, that had early crossed the Meuse below Sedan, were
brought to bear on the west front of that part of the French position. The apex of the defenders'
triangle was thus severely searched by some 200 guns; and their discharges, soon supported
by the fire of skirmishers and volleys from the troops, broke all forward movements of the
French on that side. On the south and south-east as many cannon swept the French lines, but
from a greater distance.

Up to nearly noon there seemed some chance of the French bursting through on the north, and
some of them did escape. Yet no well-sustained effort took place on that side, apparently because,
even after the loss of Bazeilles at eleven o'clock, de Wimpffen clung to the belief that he
could cut his way out towards Carignan, if not by Bazeilles, then perhaps by some other way,
as Daigny or la Moncelle. The reasoning by which he convinced himself is hard to follow; for
the only road to Carignan on that side runs through Bazeilles. Perhaps we ought to say that
he did not reason, but was haunted by one fixed notion; and the history of war from the time
of the Roman Varro down to the age of the Austrian Mack and the French de Wimpffen shows that
men whose brains work in grooves and take no account of what is on the right hand and the left,
are not fit to command armies; they only yield easy triumphs to the great masters of warfare--Hannibal,
Napoleon the Great, and von Moltke.

De Wimpffen, we say, paid little heed to the remonstrances of Generals Douay and Ducrot at
leaving the northern apex and the north-western front of the defence to be crushed by weight
of metal and of numbers. He rode off towards Balan, near which village the former defenders
of Bazeilles were making a gallant and partly successful stand, and no reinforcements were
sent to the hills on the north. The villages of Illy and Floing were lost; then the French
columns gave ground even up the higher ground behind them, so great was the pressure of the
German converging advance. Worst of all, skulkers began to hurry from the ranks and seek shelter
in the woods, or even under the ramparts of Sedan far in the rear. The French gunners still
plied their guns with steady devotion, though hopelessly outmatched at all points, but it was
clear that only a great forward dash could save the day. Ducrot therefore ordered General Margueritte
with three choice cavalry regiments (Chasseurs d'Afrique) and several squadrons of Lancers
to charge the advancing lines. Moving forward from the northern edge of the Bois de Garenne
to judge his ground, Margueritte fell mortally wounded. De Bauffremont took his place, and
those brave horsemen swept forward on a task as hopeless as that of the Light Brigade at Balaclava,
or that of the French Cuirassiers at Wörth[48]. Their conduct was as glorious; but the terrible
power of the modern rifle was once more revealed. The pounding of distant batteries they could
brave; disordered but defiant they swept on towards the German lines, but when the German infantry
opened fire almost at pistol range, rank after rank of the horsemen went down as grass before
the scythe. Here and there small bands of horsemen charged the footmen on the flank, even in
a few cases on their rear, it is said; but the charge, though bravely renewed, did little except
to delay the German triumph and retrieve the honour of France.

[Footnote 48: Lebrun (op. cit. pp. 126-127; also Appendix D) maintains that de Bauffremont
then led the charge, de Gallifet leading only the 3rd Chasseurs d'Afrique.]

By about two o'clock the French cavalry was practically disabled, and there now remained no
Imperial Guard, as at Waterloo, to shed some rays of glory over the disaster. Meanwhile, however,
de Wimpffen had resolved to make one more effort. Gathering about him a few of the best infantry
battalions in and about Sedan, he besought the Emperor to join him in cutting a way out towards
the east. The Emperor sent no answer to this appeal; he judged that too much blood had already
been needlessly shed. Still, de Wimpffen persisted in his mad endeavour. Bursting upon the
Bavarians in the village of Balan, he drove them back for a space until his men, disordered
by the rush, fell before the stubborn rally of the Bavarians and Saxons. With the collapse
of this effort and the cutting up of the French cavalry behind Floing, the last frail barriers
to the enemy's advance gave way. The roads to Sedan were now thronged with masses of fugitives,
whose struggles to pass the drawbridges into the little fortress resembled an African battue;
for King William and his Staff, in order to hurry on the inevitable surrender, bade the 200
or more pieces on the southern heights play upon the town. Still de Wimpffen refused to surrender,
and, despite the orders of his sovereign, continued the hopeless struggle. At length, to stay
the frightful carnage, the Emperor himself ordered the white flag to be hoisted[49]. A German
officer went down to arrange preliminaries, and to his astonishment was ushered into the presence
of the Emperor. The German Staff had no knowledge of his whereabouts. On hearing the news,
King William, who throughout the day sat on horseback at the top of the slope behind Frénois,
said to his son, the Crown Prince: "This is indeed a great success; and I thank thee that thou
hast contributed to it." He gave his hand to his son, who kissed it, and then, in turn, to
Moltke and to Bismarck, who kissed it also.

     SÉDAN, le 1er Septembre, 1870.

[Footnote 49: Lebrun, op. cit. pp. 130 et seq. for the disputes about surrender.]

The King named von Moltke to arrange the terms and then rode away to a village farther south,
it being arranged, probably at Bismarck's suggestion, that he should not see the Emperor until
all was settled. Meanwhile de Wimpffen and other French generals, in conference with von Moltke,
Bismarck, and Blumenthal, at the village of Donchéry, sought to gain easy terms by appealing
to their generosity and by arguing that this would end the war and earn the gratitude of France.
To all appeals for permission to let the captive army go to Algeria, or to lay down its arms
in Belgium, the Germans were deaf,--Bismarck at length plainly saying that the French were
an envious and jealous people on whose gratitude it would be idle to count. De Wimpffen then
threatened to renew the fight rather than surrender, to which von Moltke grimly assented, but
Bismarck again interposed to bring about a prolongation of the truce. Early on the morrow,
Napoleon himself drove out to Donchéry in the hope of seeing the King. The Bismarckian Boswell
has given us a glimpse of him as he then appeared: "The look in his light grey eyes was somewhat
soft and dreamy, like that of people who have lived too fast." [In his case, we may remark,
this was induced by the painful disease which never left him all through the campaign, and
carried him off three years later.] "He wore his cap a little on the right, to which side his
head also inclined. His short legs were out of proportion to the long upper body. His whole
appearance was a little unsoldier-like. The man looked too soft--I might say too spongy--for
the uniform he wore."

Bismarck, the stalwart Teuton who had wrecked his policy at all points, met him at Donchéry
and foiled his wish to see the King, declaring this to be impossible until the terms of the
capitulation were settled. The Emperor then had a conversation with the Chancellor in a little
cottage belonging to a weaver. Seating themselves on two rush-bottomed chairs beside the one
deal table, they conversed on the greatest affairs of State. The Emperor said he had not sought
this war--"he had been driven into it by the pressure of public opinion. I replied" (wrote
Bismarck) "that neither had any one with us wished for war--the King least of all[50]." Napoleon
then pleaded for generous terms, but admitted that he, as a prisoner, could not fix them; they
must be arranged with de Wimpffen. About ten o'clock the latter agreed to an unconditional
surrender for the rank and file of the French army, but those officers who bound themselves
by their word of honour (in writing) not to fight again during the present war were to be set
free. Napoleon then had an interview with the King. What transpired is not known, but when
the Emperor came out "his eyes" (wrote Bismarck) "were full of tears."

[Footnote 50: Busch, Bismarck on the Franco-German War, vol. i. p. 109. Contrast this statement
with his later efforts (Reminiscences, vol. ii. pp. 95-100) to prove that he helped to bring
on war.]

The fallen monarch accepted the King's offer of the castle of Wilhelmshöhe near Cassel for
his residence up to the end of the war; it was the abode on which Jerome Bonaparte had spent
millions of thalers, wrung from Westphalian burghers, during his brief sovereignty in 1807-1813.
Thither his nephew set out two days after the catastrophe of Sedan. And this, as it seems,
was the end of a dynasty whose rise to power dated from the thrilling events of the Bridge
of Lodi, Arcola, Rivoli, and the Pyramids. The French losses on September 1 were about 3000
killed, 14,000 wounded, and 21,000 prisoners. On the next day there surrendered 83,000 prisoners
by virtue of the capitulation, along with 419 field-pieces and 139 cannon of the fortress.
Some 3000 had escaped, through the gap in the German lines on the north-east, to the Belgian
frontier, and there laid down their arms.

The news of this unparalleled disaster began to leak out at Paris late on the 2nd; on the morrow,
when details were known, crowds thronged into the streets shouting "Down with the Empire! Long
live the Republic!" Power still remained with the Empress-Regent and the Palikao Ministry.
All must admit that the Empress Eugénie did what was possible in this hopeless position. She
appealed to that charming literary man, M. Prosper Mérimée, to go to his friend, M. Thiers
(at whom we shall glance presently), and beg him to form a Ministry that would save the Empire
for the young Prince Imperial. M. Thiers politely but firmly refused to give a helping hand
to the dynasty which he looked on as the author of his country's ruin.

On that day the Empress also summoned the Chambers--the Senate and the Corps Législatif--a
vain expedient, for in times of crisis the French look to a man, not to Chambers. The Empire
had no man at hand. General Trochu, Governor of Paris, was suspected of being a Republican--at
any rate he let matters take their course. On the 4th, vast crowds filled the streets; a rush
was made to the Chamber, where various compromises were being discussed; the doors were forced,
and amid wild excitement a proposal to dethrone the Napoleonic dynasty was put. Two Republican
deputies, Gambetta and Jules Favre, declared that the Hôtel de Ville was the fit place to declare
the Republic. There, accordingly, it was proclaimed, the deputies for the city of Paris taking
office as the Government of National Defence. They were just in time to prevent Socialists
like Blanqui, Flourens, and Henri Rochefort from installing the "Commune" in power. The Empress
and the Prince Imperial at once fled, and, apart from a protest by the Senate, no voice was
raised in defence of the Empire. Jules Favre who took up the burden of Foreign Affairs in the
new Government of National Defence was able to say in his circular note of September 6 that
"the Revolution of September 4 took place without the shedding of a drop of blood or the loss
of liberty to a single person[51]."

[Footnote 51: Gabriel Hanotaux, Contemporary France, vol. i. p. 14 (Eng. edit.)]

That fact shows the unreality of Bonapartist rule in France. At bottom Napoleon III.'s ascendancy
was due to several causes, that told against possible rivals rather than directly in his favour.
Hatred of the socialists, whose rash political experiments had led to the bloody days of street
fighting in Paris in June 1848, counted for much. Added to this was the unpopularity of the
House of Orleans after the sordid and uninteresting rule of Louis Philippe (1830-48). The antiquated
royalism of the Elder or Legitimist branch of that ill-starred dynasty made it equally an impossibility.
Louis Napoleon promised to do what his predecessors, Monarchical and Republican, had signally
failed to do, namely, to reconcile the claims of liberty and order at home and uphold the prestige
of France abroad. For the first ten years the glamour of his name, the skill with which he
promoted the material prosperity of France, and the successes of his early wars, promised to
build up a lasting power. But then came the days of failing health and tottering prestige--of
financial scandals, of the Mexican blunder, of the humiliation before the rising power of Prussia.
To retrieve matters he toyed with democracy in France, and finally allowed his Ministers to
throw down a challenge to Prussia; for, in the words of a French historian, the conditions
on which he held power "condemned him to be brilliant[52]."

[Footnote 52: Said in 1852 by an eminent Frenchman to our countryman, Nassau Senior (Journals,
ii. ad fin).]

Failing at Sedan, he lost all; and he knew it. His reign, in fact, was one long disaster for
France. The canker of moral corruption began to weaken her public life when the creatures of
whom he made use in the coup d'état of 1851 crept into place and power. The flashy sensationalism
of his policy, setting the tone for Parisian society, was fatal to the honest unseen drudgery
which builds up a solid edifice alike in public and in private life. Even the better qualities
of his nature told against ultimate success. As has been shown, his vague but generous ideas
on Nationality drew French policy away from the paths of obvious self-interest after the year
1864, and gave an easy victory to the keen and objective statecraft of Bismarck. That he loved
France as sincerely as he believed in the power of the Bonapartist tradition to help her, can
scarcely admit of doubt. His conduct during the war of 1870 showed him to be disinterested,
while his vision was clearer than that of the Generals about him. But in the field of high
policy, as in the moral events that make or mar a nation's life, his influence told heavily
against the welfare of France; and he must have carried into exile the consciousness that his
complex nature and ill-matched strivings had but served to bring his dynasty and his country
to an unexampled overthrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

It may be well to notice here an event of world-wide importance, which came as a sequel to
the military collapse of France. Italians had always looked to the day when Rome would be the
national capital. Rome will without doubt be chosen by the Italians as their capital." The
political and economic needs of the present, coinciding herein with the voice of tradition,
always so strong in Italian hearts, pointed imperiously to Rome as the only possible centre
of national life.

As was pointed out in the Introduction, Pius IX. after the years of revolution, 1848-49, felt
the need of French troops in his capital, and his harsh and reactionary policy (or rather,
that of his masterful Secretary of State, Antonelli) before long completely alienated the feelings
of his subjects.

After the master-mind of Cavour was removed by death, (June 1861), the patriots struggled desperately,
but in vain, to rid Rome of the presence of foreign troops and win her for the national cause.
Garibaldi's raids of 1862 and 1867 were foiled, the one by Italian, the other by French troops;
and the latter case, which led to the sharp fight of Mentana, effaced any feelings of gratitude
to Napoleon III. for his earlier help, which survived after his appropriation of Savoy and
Nice. Thus matters remained in 1867-70, the Pope relying on the support of French bayonets
to coerce his own subjects. Clearly this was a state of things which could not continue. The
first great shock must always bring down a political edifice which rests not on its own foundations,
but on external buttresses. These were suddenly withdrawn by the war of 1870. Early in August,
Napoleon ordered all his troops to leave the Papal States; and the downfall of his power a
month later absolved Victor Emmanuel from the claims of gratitude which he still felt towards
his ally of 1859.

At once the forward wing of the Italian national party took action in a way that either forced,
or more probably encouraged, Victor Emmanuel's Government to step in under the pretext of preventing
the creation of a Roman Republic. The King invited Pius IX. to assent to the peaceful occupation
of Rome by the royal troops, and on receiving the expected refusal, moved forward 35,000 soldiers.
The resistance of the 11,000 Papal troops proved to be mainly a matter of form. The wall near
the Porta Pia soon crumbled before the Italian cannon, and after a brief struggle at the breach,
the white flag was hoisted at the bidding of the Pope (Sept. 20).

Thus fell the temporal power of the Papacy. The event aroused comparatively little notice in
that year of marvels, but its results have been momentous. At the time there was a general
sense of relief, if not of joy, in Italy, that the national movement had reached its goal,
albeit in so tame and uninspiring a manner. Rome had long been a prey to political reaction,
accompanied by police supervision of the most exasperating kind. The plébiscite as to the future
government gave 133,681 votes for Victor Emmanuel's rule, and only 1507 negative votes[53].

[Footnote 53: Countess Cesaresco, The Liberation of Italy, p. 411.]

Now, for the first time since the days of Napoleon I. and of the short-lived Republic for which
Mazzini and Garibaldi worked and fought so nobly in 1849, the Eternal City began to experience
the benefits of progressive rule. The royal government soon proved to be very far from perfect.
Favouritism, the multiplication of sinecures, municipal corruption, and the prosaic inroads
of builders and speculators, soon helped to mar the work of political reconstruction, and began
to arouse a certain amount of regret for the more picturesque times of the Papal rule. A sentimental
reaction of this kind is certain to occur in all cases of political change, especially in a
city where tradition and emotion so long held sway.

The consciences of the faithful were also troubled when the fiat of the Pope went forth excommunicating
the robber-king and all his chief abettors in the work of sacrilege. Sons of the Church throughout
Italy were bidden to hold no intercourse with the interlopers and to take no part in elections
to the Italian Parliament which thenceforth met in Rome. The schism between the Vatican and
the King's Court and Government was never to be bridged over; and even to-day it constitutes
one of the most perplexing problems of Italy.

Despite the fact that Rome and Italy gained little of that mental and moral stimulus which
might have resulted from the completion of the national movement solely by the action of the
people themselves, the fact nevertheless remains that Rome needed Italy and Italy needed Rome.
The disappointment loudly expressed by idealists, sentimentalists, and reactionaries must not
blind us to the fact that the Italians, and above all the Romans, have benefited by the advent
of unity, political freedom, and civic responsibility. It may well be that, in acting as the
leader of a constitutional people, the Eternal City will little by little develop higher gifts
than those nurtured under Papal tutelage, and perhaps as beneficent to Humanity as those which,
in the ancient world, bestowed laws on Europe.

As Mazzini always insisted, political progress, to be sound, must be based ultimately on moral
progress. It is of its very nature slow, and is therefore apt to escape the eyes of the moralist
or cynic who dwells on the untoward signs of the present. But the Rome for which Mazzini and
his compatriots yearned and struggled can hardly fail ultimately to rise to the height of her
ancient traditions and of that noble prophecy of Dante: "There is the seat of empire. There
never was, and there never will be, a people endowed with such capacity to acquire command,
with more vigour to maintain it, and more gentleness in its exercise, than the Italian nation,
and especially the Holy Roman people." The lines with which Mr. Swinburne closed his "Dedication"
of Songs before Sunrise to Joseph Mazzini are worthy of finding a place side by side with the
words of the mediaeval seer:--

     Yea, even she as at first,
     Yea, she alone and none other,
     Shall cast down, shall build up, shall bring home,
     Slake earth's hunger and thirst,
     Lighten, and lead as a mother;
     First name of the world's names, Rome.

CHAPTER IV

THE FOUNDING OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC

     "[Greek: egigneto te logo men daemokratia, ergo de hupo tou
     protou andros archae]."

     "Thus Athens, though still in name a democracy, was in fact
     ruled by her greatest man."--THUCYDIDES, book ii. chap. 65.

The aim of this work being to trace the outlines only of those outstanding events which made
the chief States of the world what they are to-day, we can give only the briefest glance at
the remaining events of the Franco-German War and the splendid though hopeless rally attempted
by the newly-installed Government of National Defence. Few facts in recent history have a more
thrilling interest than the details of the valiant efforts made by the young Republic against
the invaders. The spirit in which they were made breathed through the words of M. Picard's
proclamation on September 4: "The Republic saved us from the invasion of 1792. The Republic
is proclaimed."

Inspiring as was this reference to the great and successful effort of the First Republic against
the troops of Central Europe in 1792, it was misleading. At that time Prussia had lapsed into
a state of weakness through the double evils of favouritism and a facing-both-ways policy.
Now she felt the strength born of sturdy championship of a great principle--that of Nationality--which
had ranged nearly the whole of the German race on her side. France, on the other hand, owing
to the shocking blunders of her politicians and generals during the war, had but one army corps
free, that of General Vinoy, which hastily retreated from the neighbourhood of Mézières towards
Paris on September 2 to 4. She therefore had to count almost entirely on the Garde Mobile,
the Garde Nationale, and Francs-tireurs; but bitter experience was to show that this raw material
could not be organised in a few weeks to withstand the trained and triumphant legions of Germany.

Nevertheless there was no thought of making peace with the invaders. The last message of Count
Palikao to the Chambers had been one of defiance to the enemy; and the Parisian deputies, nearly
all of them Republicans, who formed the Government of National Defence, scouted all faint-hearted
proposals. Their policy took form in the famous phrase of Jules Favre, Minister of Foreign
Affairs: "We will give up neither an inch of our territory nor a stone of our fortresses."
This being so, all hope of compromise with the Germans was vain. Favre had interviews with
Bismarck at the Château de Ferrières (September 19); but his fine oratory, even his tears,
made no impression on the Iron Chancellor, who declared that in no case would an armistice
be granted, not even for the election of a National Assembly, unless France agreed to give
up Alsace and a part of Lorraine, allowing the German troops also to hold, among other places,
Strassburg and Toul.

Obviously, a self-constituted body like the provisional Government at Paris could not accept
these terms, which most deeply concerned the nation at large. In the existing temper of Paris
and France, the mention of such terms meant war to the knife, as Bismarck must have known.
On their side, Frenchmen could not believe that their great capital, with its bulwarks and
ring of outer forts, could be taken; while the Germans--so it seems from the Diary of General
von Blumenthal--looked forward to its speedy capitulation. One man there was who saw the pressing
need of foreign aid. M. Thiers (whose personality will concern us a little later) undertook
to go on a mission to the chief Powers of Europe in the hope of urging one or more of them
to intervene on behalf of France.

The details of that mission are, of course, not fully known. We can only state here that Russia
now repaid Prussia's help in crushing the Polish rebellion of 1863 by neutrality, albeit tinged
with a certain jealousy of German success. Bismarck had been careful to dull that feeling by
suggesting that she (Russia) should take the present opportunity of annulling the provision,
made after the Crimean War, which prevented her from sending war-ships on to the Black Sea;
and this was subsequently done, under a thin diplomatic disguise, at the Congress of London
(March 1871). Bismarck's astuteness in supporting Russia at this time therefore kept that Power
quiet. As for Austria, she undoubtedly wished to intervene, but did not choose to risk a war
with Russia, which would probably have brought another overthrow. Italy would not unsheathe
her sword for France unless the latter recognised her right to Rome (which the Italian troops
entered on September 20). To this the young French Republic demurred. Great Britain, of course,
adhered to the policy of neutrality which she at first declared[54].

[Footnote 54: See Débidour, Histoire diplomatique de l'Europe, vol. ii. pp. 412-415. For Bismarck's
fears of intervention, especially that of Austria, see his Reminiscences, vol. ii. p. 109 (English
edit.); Count Beust's Aus drei Viertel-Jahrhunderten, pt. ii. pp. 361, 395; for Thiers' efforts
see his Notes on the years 1870-73 (Paris 1904).]

Accordingly, France had to rely on her own efforts. They were surprisingly great. Before the
complete investment of Paris (September 20), a Delegation of the Government of National Defence
had gone forth to Tours with the aim of stirring up the provinces to the succour of the besieged
capital. Probably the whole of the Government ought to have gone there; for, shut up in the
capital, it lost touch with the provinces, save when balloons and carrier-pigeons eluded the
German sharpshooters and brought precious news[55]. The mistake was seen in time to enable
a man of wondrous energy to leave Paris by balloon on October 7, to descend as a veritable
deus ex machina on the faltering Delegation at Tours, and to stir the blood of France by his
invective. There was a touch of the melodramatic not only in his apparition but in his speeches.
Frenchmen, however, follow a leader all the better if he is a good stage-manager and a clever
actor. The new leader was both; but he was something more.

[Footnote 55: M. Grégoire in his Histoire de France, vol. iv. p. 647, states that 64 balloons
left Paris during the siege, 5 were captured and 2 lost in the sea; 363 carrier-pigeons left
the city and 57 came in. For details of the French efforts see Les Responsabilités de la Défense
rationale, by H. Génevois; also The People's War in France, 1870-1871, by Col. L. Hale (The
Pall Mall Military Series, 1904), founded on Hönig's Der Volkskrieg an der Loire.]

Léon Gambetta had leaped to the front rank at the Bar in the closing days of 1868 by a passionate
outburst against the coup d'état, uttered, to the astonishment of all, in a small Court of
Correctional Police, over a petty case of State prosecution of a small Parisian paper. Rejecting
the ordinary methods of defence, the young barrister flung defiance at Napoleon III. as the
author of the coup d'état and of all the present degradation of France. The daring of the young
barrister, who thus turned the tables on the authorities and impeached the head of the State,
made a profound impression; it was redoubled by the Southern intensity of his thought and expression.
Disdaining all forms of rhetoric, he poured forth a torrent of ideas, clothing them in the
first words that came to his facile tongue, enforcing them by blows of the fist or the most
violent gestures, and yet, again, modulating the roar of passion to the falsetto of satire
or the whisper of emotion. His short, thick-set frame, vibrating with strength, doubled the
force of all his utterances. Nor did they lack the glamour of poetry and romance that might
be expected from his Italian ancestry. He came of a Genoese stock that had for some time settled
in the South of France. Strange fate, that called him now to the front with the aim of repairing
the ills wrought to France by another Italian House! In time of peace his power over men would
have raised him to the highest positions had his Bohemian exuberance of thought and speech
been tameable. It was not. He scorned prudence in moderation at all times, and his behaviour,
when the wave of Revolution at last carried him to power, gave point to the taunt of Thiers--"c'est
un fou furieux." Such was the man who now brought the quenchless ardour of his patriotism to
the task of rousing France. As far as words and energy could call forth armies, he succeeded;
but as he lacked all military knowledge, his blind self-confidence was to cost France dear.

Possibly the new levies of the Republic might at some point have pierced the immense circle
of the German lines around Paris (for at first the besieging forces were less numerous than
the besieged), had not the assailants been strengthened by the fall of Metz (Oct. 27). This
is not the place to discuss the culpability of Bazaine for the softness shown in the defence.
The voluminous evidence taken at his trial shows that he was very slack in the critical days
at the close of August; it is also certain that Bismarck duped him under the pretence that,
on certain conditions to be arranged with the Empress Eugénie, his army might be kept intact
for the sake of re-establishing the Empire[56]. The whole scheme was merely a device to gain
time and keep Bazaine idle, and the German Chancellor succeeded here as at all points in his
great game. On October 27, then, 6000 officers, 173,000 rank and file, were constrained by
famine to surrender, along with 541 field-pieces and 800 siege guns.

[Footnote 56: Bazaine gives the details from his point of view in his Episodes de la Guerre
de 1870 et le Blocus de Metz (Madrid, 1883). One of the go-betweens was a man Regnier, who
pretended to come from the Empress Eugénie, then at Hastings; but Bismarck seems to have distrusted
him and to have dismissed him curtly. The adventuress, Mme. Humbert, recently claimed that
she had her "millions" from this Regnier. See, too, M. Samuel Denis in his recent work, Histoire
Contemporaine (de France).]

This capitulation, the greatest recorded in the history of civilised nations, dealt a death-blow
to the hopes of France. Strassburg had hoisted the white flag a month earlier; and the besiegers
of these fortresses were free to march westwards and overwhelm the new levies. After gaining
a success at Coulmiers, near Orleans (Nov. 9), the French were speedily driven down the valley
of the Loire and thence as far west as Le Mans. In the North, at St. Quentin, the Germans were
equally successful, as also in Burgundy against that once effective free-lance, Garibaldi,
who came with his sons to fight for the Republic. The last effort was made by Bourbaki and
a large but ill-compacted army against the enemy's communications in Alsace. By a speedy concentration
the Germans at Héricourt, near Belfort, defeated this daring move (imposed by the Government
of National Defence on Bourbaki against his better judgment), and compelled him and his hard-pressed
followers to pass over into Switzerland (January 30, 1871).

Meanwhile Paris had already surrendered. During 130 days, and that too in a winter of unusual
severity, the great city had held out with a courage that neither defeats, schisms, dearth
of food, nor the bombardment directed against its southern quarters could overcome. Towards
the close of January famine stared the defenders in the face, and on the 28th an armistice
was concluded, which put an end to the war except in the neighbourhood of Belfort. That exception
was due to the determination of the Germans to press Bourbaki hard, while the French negotiators
were not aware of his plight. The garrison of Paris, except 12,000 men charged with the duty
of keeping order, surrendered; the forts were placed in the besiegers' hands. When that was
done the city was to be revictualled and thereafter pay a war contribution of 200,000,000 francs
(£8,000,000). A National Assembly was to be freely elected and meet at Bordeaux to discuss
the question of peace. The National Guards retained their arms, Favre maintaining that it would
be impossible to disarm them; for this mistaken weakness he afterwards expressed his profound
sorrow[57].

[Footnote 57: It of course led up to the Communist revolt. Bismarck's relations to the disorderly
elements in Paris are not fully known; but he warned Favre on Jan. 26 to "provoke an émeute
while you have an army to suppress it with" (Bismarck in Franco-German War, vol. ii. p. 265).]

Despite the very natural protests of Gambetta and many others against the virtual ending of
the war at the dictation of the Parisian authorities, the voice of France ratified their action.
An overwhelming majority declared for peace. The young Republic had done wonders in reviving
the national spirit: Frenchmen could once more feel the self-confidence which had been damped
by the surrenders of Sedan and Metz; but the instinct of self-preservation now called imperiously
for the ending of the hopeless struggle. In the hurried preparations for the elections held
on February 8, few questions were asked of the candidates except that of peace or war; and
it soon appeared that a great majority was in favour of peace, even at the cost of part of
the eastern provinces.

Of the 630 deputies who met at Bordeaux on February 12, fully 400 were Monarchists, nearly
evenly divided between the Legitimists and Orleanists; 200 were professed Republicans; but
only 30 Bonapartists were returned. It is not surprising that the Assembly, which met in the
middle of February, should soon have declared that the Napoleonic Empire had ceased to exist,
as being "responsible for the ruin, invasion, and dismemberment of the country" (March 1).
These rather exaggerated charges (against which Napoleon III. protested from his place of exile,
Chislehurst) were natural in the then deplorable condition of France. What is surprising and
needs a brief explanation here, is the fact that a monarchical Assembly should have allowed
the Republic to be founded.

This paradoxical result sprang from several causes, some of them of a general nature, others
due to party considerations, while the personal influence of one man perhaps turned the balance
at this crisis in the history of France. We will consider them in the order here named.

Stating the matter broadly, we may say that the present Assembly was not competent to decide
on the future constitution of France; and that vague but powerful instinct, which guides representative
bodies in such cases, told against any avowedly partisan effort in that direction. The deputies
were fully aware that they were elected to decide the urgent question of peace or war, either
to rescue France from her long agony, or to pledge the last drops of her life-blood in an affair
of honour. By an instinct of self-preservation, the electors, especially in the country districts,
turned to the men of property and local influence as those who were most likely to save them
from the frothy followers of Gambetta. Accordingly, local magnates were preferred to the barristers
and pressmen, whose oratorical and literary gifts usually carry the day in France; and more
than 200 noblemen were elected. They were chosen not on account of their nobility and royalism,
but because they were certain to vote against the fou furieux.

Then, too, the Royalists knew very well that time would be required to accustom France to the
idea of a King, and to adjust the keen rivalries between the older and the younger branches
of the Bourbon House. Furthermore, they were anxious that the odium of signing a disastrous
peace should fall on the young Republic, not on the monarch of the future. Just as the great
Napoleon in 1814 was undoubtedly glad that the giving up of Belgium and the Rhine boundary
should devolve on his successor, Louis XVIII., and counted on that as one of the causes undermining
the restored monarchy, so now the Royalists intended to leave the disagreeable duty of ceding
the eastern districts of France to the Republicans who had so persistently prolonged the struggle.
The clamour of no small section of the Republican party for war à outrance still played into
the hands of the royalists and partly justified this narrow partisanship. Events, however,
were to prove here, as in so many cases, that the party which undertook a pressing duty and
discharged it manfully, gained more in the end than those who shirked responsibility and left
the conduct of affairs to their opponents. Men admire those who dauntlessly pluck the flower,
safety, out of the nettle, danger.

Finally, the influence of one commanding personality was ultimately to be given to the cause
of the Republic. That strange instinct which in times of crisis turns the gaze of a people
towards the one necessary man, now singled out M. Thiers. The veteran statesman was elected
in twenty-six Departments. Gambetta and General Trochu, Governor of Paris, were each elected
nine times over. It was clear that the popular voice was for the policy of statesmanlike moderation
which Thiers now summed up in his person; and Gambetta for a time retired to Spain.

The name of Thiers had not always stood for moderation. From the time of his youth, when his
journalistic criticisms on the politics, literature, art and drama of the Restoration period
set all tongues wagging, to the day when his many-sided gifts bore him to power under Louis
Philippe, he stood for all that is most beloved by the vivacious sons of France. His early
work, The History of the French Revolution, had endeared him to the survivors of the old Jacobin
and Girondin parties, and his eager hostility to England during his term of office flattered
the Chauvinist feelings that steadily grew in volume during the otherwise dull reign of Louis
Philippe. In the main, Thiers was an upholder of the Orleans dynasty, yet his devotion to constitutional
principles, the ardour of his Southern temperament,--he was a Marseillais by birth,--and the
vivacious egotism that never brooked contradiction, often caused sharp friction with the King
and the King's friends. He seemed born for opposition and criticism. Thereafter, his conduct
of affairs helped to undermine the fabric of the Second Republic (1848-51). Flung into prison
by the minions of Louis Napoleon at the time of the coup d'état, he emerged buoyant as ever,
and took up again the rôle that he loved so well.

Nevertheless, amidst all the seeming vagaries of Thiers' conduct there emerge two governing
principles--a passionate love of France, and a sincere attachment to reasoned liberty. The
first was absolute and unchangeable; the second admitted of some variations if the ruler did
not enhance the glory of France, and also (as some cynics said) recognise the greatness of
M. Thiers. For the many gibes to which his lively talents and successful career exposed him,
he had his revenge. His keen glance and incisive reasoning generally warned him of the probable
fate of Dynasties and Ministries. Like Talleyrand, whom he somewhat resembled in versatility,
opportunism, and undying love of France, he might have said that he never deserted a Government
before it deserted itself. He foretold the fall of Louis Philippe under the reactionary Guizot
Ministry as, later on, he foretold the fall of Napoleon III. He blamed the Emperor for not
making war on Prussia in 1866 with the same unanswerable logic that marked his opposition to
the mad rush for war in 1870. And yet the war spirit had been in some sense strengthened by
his own writings. His great work, The History of the Consulate and Empire, which appeared from
1845 to 1862--the last eight volumes came out during the Second Empire--was in the main a glorification
of the First Napoleon. Men therefore asked with some impatience why the panegyrist of the uncle
should oppose the supremacy of the nephew; and the action of the crowd in smashing the historian's
windows after his great speech against the war of 1870 cannot be called wholly illogical, even
if it erred on the side of Gallic vivacity.

In the feverish drama of French politics Time sometimes brings an appropriate Nemesis. It was
so now. The man who had divided the energies of his manhood between parliamentary opposition
of a somewhat factious type and the literary cultivation of the Napoleonic legend, was now
in the evening of his days called upon to bear a crushing load of responsibility in struggling
to win the best possible terms of peace from the victorious Teuton, in mediating between contending
factions at Bordeaux and Paris, and, finally, in founding a form of government which never
enlisted his whole-hearted sympathy, save as the least objectionable expedient then open to France.

For the present, the great thing was to gain peace with the minimum of sacrifice for France.
Who could drive a better bargain than Thiers, the man who knew France so well, and had recently
felt the pulse of the Governments of Europe? Accordingly, on the 17th of February, the Assembly
named him Head of the Executive Power "until it is based upon the French Constitution." He
declined to accept this post until the words "of the French Republic" were substituted for
the latter clause. He had every reason for urging this demand. Unlike the Republic of 1848,
the strength of which was chiefly, or almost solely, in Paris, the Republic was proclaimed
at Lyons, Marseilles, and Bordeaux, before any news came of the overthrow of the Napoleonic
dynasty at the capital[58].

[Footnote 58: Seignobos, A Political History of Contemporary Europe, vol. i. p. 187 (Eng. edit.).]

He now entrusted three important portfolios, those for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, and Public
Instruction, to pronounced Republicans--Jules Favre, Picard, and Jules Simon. Having pacified
the monarchical majority by appealing to them to defer all questions respecting the future
constitution until affairs were more settled, he set out to meet Bismarck at Versailles.

A disadvantage which almost necessarily besets parliamentary institutions had weakened the
French case before the negotiations began. The composition of the Assembly implied a strong
desire for peace--a fact which Thiers had needlessly emphasised before he left Bordeaux. On
the other hand, Bismarck was anxious to end the war. He knew enough to be uneasy at the attitude
of the neutral States; for public opinion was veering round in England, Austria, and Italy
to a feeling of keen sympathy for France, and even Russia was restless at the sight of the
great military Empire that had sprung into being on her flank. The recent proclamation of the
German Empire at Versailles--an event that will be treated in a later chapter--opened up a
vista of great developments for the Fatherland, not unmixed with difficulties and dangers.
Above all, sharp differences had arisen between him and the military men at the German headquarters,
who wished to "bleed France white" by taking a large portion of French Lorraine (including
its capital Nancy), a few colonies, and part of her fleet. It is now known that Bismarck, with
the same moderation that he displayed after Königgrätz, opposed these extreme claims, because
he doubted the advisability of keeping Metz, with its large French population. The words in
which he let fall these thoughts while at dinner with Busch on February 21 deserve to be quoted:--

     If they (the French) gave us a milliard more (£40,000,000) we
     might perhaps let them have Metz. We would then take
     800,000,000 francs, and build ourselves a fortress a few
     miles further back, somewhere about Falkenberg or
     Saarbrück--there must be some suitable spot thereabouts. We
     should thus make a clear profit of 200,000,000 francs.
     [N.B.--A milliard = 1,000,000,000 francs.] I do not like so
     many Frenchmen being in our house against their will. It is
     just the same with Belfort. It is all French there too. The
     military men, however, will not be willing to let Metz slip,
     and perhaps they are right[59].

[Footnote 59: Busch, Bismarck in the Franco-German War, vol. ii. p. 341.]

A sharp difference of opinion had arisen between Bismarck and Moltke on this question, and
the Emperor Wilhelm intervened in favour of Moltke. That decided the question of Metz against
Thiers despite his threat that this might lead to a renewal of war. For Belfort, however, the
French statesman made a supreme effort. That fortress holds a most important position. Strong
in itself, it stands as sentinel guarding the gap of nearly level ground between the spurs
of the Vosges and those of the Jura. If that virgin stronghold were handed over to Germany,
she would easily be able to pour her legions down the valley of the Doubs and dominate the
rich districts of Burgundy and the Lyonnais. Besides, military honour required France to keep
a fortress that had kept the tricolour flying. Metz the Germans held, and it was impossible
to turn them out. Obviously the case of Belfort was on a different footing. In his conference
of February 24, Thiers at last defied Bismarck in these words: "No; I will never yield Belfort
and Metz in the same breath. You wish to ruin France in her finances, in her frontiers. Well!
Take her. Conduct her administration, collect her revenues, and you will have to govern her
in the face of Europe--if Europe permits[60]."

[Footnote 60: G. Hanotaux, Contemporary France, vol i. p. 124 (Eng. edit.). This work is the
most detailed and authoritative that has yet appeared on these topics. See, too, M. Samuel
Denis' work, Histoire Contemporaine.]

Probably this defiance had less weight with the Iron Chancellor than his conviction, noticed
above, that to bring two entirely French towns within the German Empire would prove a source
of weakness; beside which his own motto, Beati possidentes, told with effect in the case of
Belfort. That stronghold was accordingly saved for France. Thiers also obtained a reduction
of a milliard from the impossible sum of six milliards first named for the war indemnity due
to Germany; in this matter Jules Favre states that British mediation had been of some avail.
If so, it partly accounts for the hatred of England which Bismarck displayed in his later years.
The Preliminaries of Peace were signed at Versailles on February 26.

One other matter remained. The Germans insisted that, if Belfort remained to France, part of
their army should enter Paris. In vain did Thiers and Jules Favre point out the irritation
that this would cause and the possible ensuing danger. The German Emperor and his Staff made
it a point of honour, and 30,000 of their troops accordingly marched in and occupied for a
brief space the district of the Champs Élysées. The terms of peace were finally ratified in
the Treaty of Frankfurt (May 10, 1871), whereby France ceded Alsace and part of Lorraine, with
a population of some 1,600,000 souls, and underwent the other losses noted above. Last but
not least was the burden of supporting the German army of occupation that kept its grip on
the north-east of France until, as the instalments came in, the foreign troops were proportionately
drawn away eastwards. The magnitude of these losses and burdens had already aroused cries of
anguish in France. The National Assembly at Bordeaux, on first hearing the terms, passionately
confirmed the deposition of Napoleon III.; while the deputies from the ceded districts lodged
a solemn protest against their expatriation (March 1). Some of the advanced Republican deputies,
refusing to acknowledge the cession of territory, resigned their seats in the Assembly. Thus
there began a schism between the Radicals, especially those of Paris, and the Assembly, which
was destined to widen into an impassable gulf. Matters were made worse by the decision of the
Assembly to sit, not at the capital, but at Versailles, where it would be free from the commotions
of the great city. Thiers himself declared in favour of Versailles; there the Assembly met
for the first time on March 20, 1871.

A conflict between this monarchical Assembly and the eager Radicals of Paris perhaps lay in
the nature of things. The majority of the deputies looked forward to the return of the King
(whether the Comte de Chambord of the elder Bourbons, or the Comte de Paris of the House of
Orleans) as soon as France should be freed from the German armies of occupation and the spectre
of the Red Terror. Some of their more impatient members openly showed their hand, and while
at Bordeaux began to upbraid Thiers for his obstinate neutrality on this question. For his
part, the wise old man had early seen the need of keeping the parties in check. On February
17 he begged them to defer questions as to the future form of government, working meanwhile
solely for the present needs of France, and allowing future victory to be the meed of that
party which showed itself most worthy of trust. "Can there be any man" (he exclaimed) "who
would dare learnedly to discuss the articles of the Constitution, while our prisoners are dying
of misery far away, or while our people, perishing of hunger, are obliged to give their last
crust to the foreign soldiers?" A similar appeal on March led to the informal truce on constitutional
questions known as the Compact of Bordeaux. It was at best an uncertain truce, certain to be
broken at the first sign of activity on the Republican side.

That activity was now put forth by the "Reds" of Paris. It would take us far too long to describe
the origins of the municipal socialism which took form in the Parisian Commune of 1871. The
first seeds of that movement had been sown by its prototype of 1792-93, which summed up all
the daring and vigour of the revolutionary socialism of that age. The idea had been kept alive
by the "National Workshops" of 1848, whose institution and final suppression by the young Republic
of that year had been its own undoing.

History shows, then, that Paris, as the head of France, was accustomed to think and act vigorously
for herself in time of revolution. But experience proved no less plainly that the limbs, that
is, the country districts, generally refused to follow the head in these fantastic movements.
Hence, after a short spell of St. Vitus' activity, there always came a time of strife, followed
only too often by torpor, when the body reduced the head to a state of benumbed subjection.
The triumph of rural notions accounts for the reactions of 1831-47, and 1851-70. Paris having
once more regained freedom of movement by the fall of the Second Empire on September 4, at
once sought to begin her politico-social experiments, and, as we pointed out, only the promptitude
of the "moderates," when face to face with the advancing Germans, averted the catastrophe of
a socialistic regime in Paris during the siege. Even so, the Communists made two determined
efforts to gain power; the former of these, on October 31, nearly succeeded. Other towns in
the centre and south, notably Lyons, were also on the brink of revolutionary socialism, and
the success of the movement in Paris might conceivably have led to a widespread trial of the
communal experiment. The war helped to keep matters in the old lines.

But now, the feelings of rage at the surrender of Paris and the cession of the eastern districts
of France, together with hatred of the monarchical assembly that flouted the capital by sitting
at the abode of the old Kings of France, served to raise popular passion to fever heat. The
Assembly undoubtedly made many mistakes: it authorised the payment of rents and all other obligations
in the capital for the period of siege as if in ordinary times, and it appointed an unpopular
man to command the National Guards of Paris. At the close of February the National Guards formed
a Central Committee to look after their interests and those of the capital; and when the Executive
of the State sent troops of the line to seize their guns parked on Montmartre, the Nationals
and the rabble turned out in force. The troops refused to act against the National Guards,
and these murdered two Generals, Lecomte and Thomas (March 18). Thiers and his Ministers thereupon
rather tamely retired to Versailles, and the capital fell into the hands of the Communists.
Greater firmness at the outset might have averted the horrors that followed.

The Communists speedily consulted the voice of the people by elections conducted in the most
democratic spirit. In many respects their programme of municipal reforms marked a great improvement
on the type of town-government prevalent during the Empire. That was, practically, under the
control of the imperial préfets. The Communists now asserted the right of each town to complete
self-government, with the control of its officials, magistrates, National Guards, and police,
as well as of taxation, education, and many other spheres of activity. The more ambitious minds
looked forward to a time when France would form a federation of self-governing Communes, whose
delegates, deciding matters of national concern, would reduce the executive power to complete
subservience. At bottom this Communal Federalism was the ideal of Rousseau and of his ideal
Cantonal State.

By such means, they hoped, the brain of France would control the body, the rural population
inevitably taking the position of hewers of wood and drawers of water, both in a political
and material sense. Undoubtedly the Paris Commune made some intelligent changes which pointed
the way to reforms of lasting benefit; but it is very questionable whether its aims could have
achieved permanence in a land so very largely agricultural as France then was. Certainly it
started its experiment in the worst possible way, namely, by defying the constituted authorities
of the nation at large, and by adopting the old revolutionary calendar, and the red flag, the
symbol of social revolution. Thenceforth it was an affair of war to the knife.

The National Government, sitting at Versailles, could not at first act with much vigour. Many
of the line regiments sympathised with the National Guards of Paris: these were 200,000 strong,
and had command of the walls and some of the posts to the south-west of Paris. The Germans
still held the forts to the north and east of the capital, and refused to allow any attack
on that side. It has even been stated that Bismarck favoured the Communists; but this is said
to have resulted from their misreading of his promise to maintain a friedlich (peaceful) attitude,
as if it were freundlich (friendly)[61]. The full truth as to Bismarck's relations to the Commune
is not known. The Germans, however, sent back a force of French prisoners, and these with other
troops, after beating back the Communist sortie of April 3, began to threaten the defences
of the city. The strife at once took on a savage character, as was inevitable after the murder
of two Generals in Paris. The Versailles troops, treating the Communists as mere rebels, shot
their chief officers. Thereupon the Commune retaliated by ordering the capture of hostages,
and by seizing the Archbishop of Paris, and several other ecclesiastics (April 5). It also
decreed the abolition of the budget for Public Worship and the confiscation of clerical and
monastic property throughout France--a proposal which aroused ridicule and contempt.

[Footnote 61: Débidour, Histoire diplomatique de l'Europe, vol. ii. p. 438-440.]

It would be tedious to dwell on the details of this terrible strife. Gradually the regular
forces overpowered the National Guards of Paris, drove them from the southern forts, and finally
(May 21) gained a lodgment within the walls of Paris at the Auteuil gate. Then followed a week
of street-fighting and madness such as Europe had not seen since the Peninsular War. "Room
for the people, for the bare-armed fighting men. The hour of the revolutionary war has struck."
This was the placard posted throughout Paris on the 22nd, by order of the Communist chief,
Delescluze. And again, "After the barricades, our houses; after our houses, our ruins." Preparations
were made to burn down a part of Central Paris to delay the progress of the Versaillese. Rumour
magnified this into a plan of wholesale incendiarism, and wild stories were told of pétroleuses
flinging oil over buildings, and of Communist firemen ready to pump petroleum. A squad of infuriated
"Reds" rushed off and massacred the Archbishop of Paris and six other hostages, while elsewhere
Dominican friars, captured regulars, and police agents fell victims to the rage of the worsted
party.

Madness seemed to have seized on the women of Paris. Even when the men were driven from barricades
by weight of numbers or by the capture of houses on their flank, these creatures fought on
with the fury of despair till they met the death which the enraged linesmen dealt out to all
who fought, or seemed to have fought. Simpson, the British war correspondent, tells how he
saw a brutal officer tear the red cross off the arm of a nurse who tended the Communist wounded,
so that she might be done to death as a fighter[62]. Both sides, in truth, were maddened by
the long and murderous struggle, which showed once again that no strife is so horrible as that
of civil war. On Sunday, May 28, the last desperate band was cut down at the Cemetery Père-Lachaise,
and fighting gave way to fusillades. Most of the chiefs perished without the pretence of trial,
and the same fate befel thousands of National Guards, who were mown down in swathes and cast
into trenches. In the last day of fighting, and the horrible time that followed, 17,000 Parisians
are said to have perished[63]. Little by little, law reasserted her sway, but only to doom
9600 persons to heavy punishment. Not until 1879 did feelings of mercy prevail, and then, owing
to Gambetta's powerful pleading, an amnesty was passed for the surviving Communist prisoners.

[Footnote 62: The Autobiography of William Simpson (London, 1903), p. 261.]

[Footnote 63: G. Hanotaux, Contemporary France, p. 225. For further details see Lissagaray's
History of the Commune; also personal details in Washburne's Recollections of a Minister to
France, 1869-1877, vol. ii. chaps, ii.-vii.]

The Paris Commune affords the last important instance of a determined rising in Europe against
a civilised Government. From this statement we of course except the fitful efforts of the Carlists
in Spain; and it is needless to say that the risings of the Bulgarians and other Slavs against
Turkish rule have been directed against an uncivilised Government. The absence of revolts in
the present age marks it off from all that have preceded, and seems to call for a brief explanation.
Obviously, there is no lack of discontent, as the sequel will show. Finland, portions of Caucasia,
and all the parts of the once mighty realm of Poland which have fallen to Russia and Prussia,
now and again heave with anger and resentment. But these feelings are suppressed. They do not
flame forth, as was the case in Poland as late as the year 1863. What is the reason for this?
Mainly, it would seem, the enormous powers given to the modern organised State by the discoveries
of mechanical science and the triumphs of the engineer. Telegraphy now flashes to the capital
the news of a threatening revolt in the hundredth part of the time formerly taken by couriers
with their relays of horses. Fully as great is the saving of time in the transport of large
bodies of troops to the disaffected districts. Thus, the all-important factors that make for
success--force, skill, and time--are all on the side of the central Governments[64].

[Footnote 64: See Turkey in Europe, by "Odysseus" (p. 130), for the parallel instance of the
enhanced power of the Sultan Abdul Hamid owing to the same causes.]

The spread of constitutional rule has also helped to dispel discontent--or, at least, has altered
its character. Representative government has tended to withdraw disaffection from the market-place,
the purlieus of the poor, and the fastnesses of the forest, and to focus it noisily but peacefully
in the columns of the Press and the arena of Parliament. The appeal now is not so much to arms
as to argument; and in this new sphere a minority, provided that it is well organised and persistent,
may generally hope to attain its ends. Revolt, even if it take the form of a refusal to pay
taxes, is therefore an anachronism under a democracy; unless, as in the case of the American
Civil War, two great sections of the country are irreconcilably opposed.

The fact, however, that there has been no widespread revolt in Russia since the year 1863,
shows that democracy has not been the chief influence tending to dissolve or suppress discontent.
As we shall see in a later chapter, Russia has defied constitutionalism and ground down alien
races and creeds; yet (up to the year 1904) no great rising has shaken her autocratic system
to its base. This seems to prove that the immunity of the present age in regard to insurrections
is due rather to the triumphs of mechanical science than to the progress of democracy. The
fact is not pleasing to contemplate; but it must be faced. So also must its natural corollary:
that the minority, if rendered desperate, may be driven to arm itself with new and terrible
engines of destruction in order to shatter that superiority of force with which science has
endowed the centralised Governments of to-day.

Certain it is that desperation, perhaps brought about by a sense of helplessness in face of
an armed nation, was one of the characteristics of the Paris Commune, as it was also of Nihilism
in Russia. In fact the Communist effort of 1871 may be termed a belated attempt on the part
of a daring minority to dominate France by seizing the machinery of government at Paris. The
success of the Extremists of 1793 and 1848 in similar experiments--not to speak of the Communistic
rising of Babeuf in 1797--was only temporary; but doubtless it encouraged the "Reds" of 1871
to make their mad bid for power. Now, however, the case was very different. France was no longer
a lethargic mass, dominated solely by the eager brain of Paris. The whole country thrilled
with political life. For the time, the provinces held the directing power, which had been necessarily
removed from the capital; and--most powerful motive of all--they looked on the Parisian experiment
as gross treason to la patrie, while she lay at the feet of the Germans. Thus, the very motives
which for a space lent such prestige and power to the Communistic Jacobins of 1793 told against
their imitators in 1871.

The inmost details of their attempt will perhaps never be fully known; for too many of the
actors died under the ruins of the building they had so heedlessly reared. Nevertheless, it
is clear that the Commune was far from being the causeless outburst that it has often been
represented. In part it resulted from the determination of the capital to free herself from
the control of the "rurals" who dominated the National Assembly; and in that respect it foreshadowed,
however crudely, what will probably be the political future of all great States, wherein the
urban population promises altogether to outweigh and control that of the country. Further,
it should be remembered that the experimenters of 1871 believed the Assembly to have betrayed
the cause of France by ceding her eastern districts, and to be on the point of handing over
the Republic to the Monarchists. A fit of hysteria, or hypochondria, brought on by the exhausting
siege and by exasperation at the triumphal entry of the Germans, added the touch of fury which
enabled the Radicals of Paris to challenge the national authorities and thereafter to persist
in their defiance with French logicality and ardour.

France, on the other hand, looked on the Communist movement at Paris and in the southern towns
as treason to the cause of national unity, when there was the utmost need of concord. Thus
on both sides there were deplorable misunderstandings. In ordinary times they might have been
cleared away by frank explanations between the more moderate leaders; but the feverish state
of the public mind forbade all thoughts of compromise, and the very weakness brought on by
the war sharpened the fit of delirium which will render the spring months of the year 1871
for ever memorable even in the thrilling annals of Paris.

CHAPTER V

THE FOUNDING OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC (continued)

The seemingly suicidal energy shown in the civil strifes at Paris served still further to depress
the fortunes of France. On the very day when the Versailles troops entered the walls of Paris,
Thiers and Favre signed the treaty of peace at Frankfurt. The terms were substantially those
agreed on in the preliminaries of February, but the terms of payment of the indemnity were
harder than before. Resistance was hopeless. In truth, the Iron Chancellor had recently used
very threatening language: he accused the French Government of bad faith in procuring the release
of a large force of French prisoners, ostensibly for the overthrow of the Commune, but really
in order to patch up matters with the "Reds" of Paris and renew the war with Germany. Misrepresentations
and threats like these induced Thiers and Favre to agree to the German demands, which took
form in the Treaty of Frankfurt (May 10, 1871).

Peace having been duly ratified on the hard terms[65], it remained to build up France almost
de nova. Nearly everything was wanting. The treasury was nearly empty, and that too in face
of the enormous demands made by Germany. It is said that in February 1871, the unhappy man
who took up the Ministry of Finance, carried away all the funds of the national exchequer in
his hat. As Thiers confessed to the Assembly, he had, for very patriotism, to close his eyes
to the future and grapple with the problems of every day as they arose. But he had faith in
France, and France had faith in him. The French people can perform wonders when they thoroughly
trust their rulers. The inexhaustible wealth inherent in their soil, the thrift of the peasantry,
and the self-sacrificing ardour shown by the nation when nerved by a high ideal, constituted
an asset of unsuspected strength in face of the staggering blows dealt to French wealth and
credit. The losses caused by the war, the Commune, and the cession of the eastern districts,
involved losses that have been reckoned at more than £614,000,000. Apart from the 1,597,000
inhabitants transferred to German rule, the loss of population due to the war and the civil
strifes has been put as high as 491,000 souls[66].

[Footnote 65: They included the right to hold four more Departments until the third half milliard
(£20,000,000, that is, £60,000,000 in all) had been paid. A commercial treaty on favourable
terms, those of the "most favoured nation," was arranged, as also an exchange of frontier strips
near Luxemburg and Belfort. Germany acquired Elsass (Alsace) and part of Lorraine, free of
all their debts.

We may note here that the Anglo-French Treaty of Commerce arranged in 1860 with Napoleon largely
by the aid of Cobden, was not renewed by the French Republic, which thereafter began to exclude
British goods. Bismarck forced France at Frankfurt to concede favourable terms to German products.
England was helpless. For this subject, see Protection in France, by H.O. Meredith (1905).]

[Footnote 66: Quoted by M. Hanotaux, Contemporary France, vol. i. pp. 323-327.]

Yet France flung herself with triumphant energy into the task of paying off the invaders. At
the close of June 1871, a loan for two milliards and a quarter (£90,000,000) was opened for
subscription, and proved to be an immense success. The required amount was more than doubled.
By means of the help of international banks, the first half milliard of the debt was paid off
in July 1871, and Normandy was freed from the burden of German occupation. We need not detail
the dates of the successive payments. They revealed the unsuspected vitality of France and
the energy of her Government and financiers. In March 1873, the arrangements for the payment
of the last instalment were made, and in the autumn of that year the last German troops left
Verdun and Belfort. For his great services in bending all the powers of France to this great
financial feat, Thiers was universally acclaimed as the Liberator of the Territory.

Yet that very same period saw him overthrown. To read this riddle aright, we must review the
outlines of French internal politics. We have already referred to the causes that sent up a
monarchical majority to the National Assembly, the schisms that weakened the action of that
majority, and the peculiar position held by M. Thiers, an Orleanist in theory, but the chief
magistrate of the French Republic. No more paradoxical situation has ever existed; and its
oddity was enhanced by the usually clear-cut logicality of French political thought. Now, after
the war and the Commune, the outlook was dim, even to the keenest sight. One thing alone was
clear, the duty of all citizens to defer raising any burning question until law, order, and
the national finances were re-established. It was the perception of this truth that led to
the provisional truce between the parties known as the Compact of Bordeaux. Flagrantly broken
by the "Reds" of Paris in the spring of 1871, that agreement seemed doomed. The Republic itself
was in danger of perishing as it did after the socialistic extravagances of the Revolution
of 1848. But Thiers at once disappointed the monarchists by stoutly declaring that he would
not abet the overthrow of the Republic: "We found the Republic established, as a fact of which
we are not the authors; but I will not destroy the form of government which I am now using
to restore order. . . . When all is settled, the country will have the liberty to choose as
it pleases in what concerns its future destinies[67]." Skilfully pointing the factions to the
future as offering a final reward for their virtuous self-restraint, this masterly tactician
gained time in which to heal the worst wounds dealt by the war.

[Footnote 67: Speech of March 27, 1871.]

But it was amidst unending difficulties. The Monarchists, eager to emphasise the political
reaction set in motion by the extravagances of the Paris Commune, wished to rid themselves
at the earliest possible time of this self-confident little bourgeois who seemed to stand alone
between them and the realisation of their hopes. Their more unscrupulous members belittled
his services and hinted that love of power alone led him to cling to the Republic, and thus
belie his political past. Then, too, the Orleans princes, the Duc d'Aumale and the Prince de
Joinville, the surviving sons of King Louis Philippe, took their seats as deputies for the
Oise and Haute-Marne Departments, thus keeping the monarchical ideal steadily before the eye
of France. True, the Duc d'Aumale had declared to the electorate that he was ready to bow before
the will of France whether it decided for a Constitutional Monarchy or a Liberal Republic;
and the loyalty with which he served his country was destined to set the seal of honesty on
a singularly interesting career. But there was no guarantee that the Chamber would not take
upon itself to interpret the will of France and call from his place of exile in London the
Comte de Paris, son of the eldest descendant of Louis Philippe, around whom the hopes of the
Orleanists centred.

Had Thiers followed his earlier convictions and declared for such a Restoration, it might quite
conceivably have come about without very much resistance. But early in the year 1871, or perhaps
after the fall of the Empire, he became convinced that France could not heal her grievous wounds
except under a government that had its roots deep in the people's life. Now, the cause of monarchy
in France was hopelessly weakened by schisms. Legitimists and Orleanists were at feud ever
since, in 1830, Louis Philippe, so the former said, cozened the rightful heir out of his inheritance;
and the efforts now made to fuse the claims of the two rival branches remained without result,
owing to the stiff and dogmatic attitude of the Comte de Chambord, heir to the traditions of
the elder branch. A Bonapartist Restoration was out of the question. Yet all three sections
began more and more to urge their claims. Thiers met them with consummate skill. Occasionally
they had reason to resent his tactics as showing unworthy finesse; but oftener they quailed
before the startling boldness of his reminders that, as they constituted the majority of the
deputies of France, they might at once undertake to restore the monarchy--if they could. "You
do not, and you cannot, do so. There is only one throne and it cannot have three occupants[68]."
Or, again, he cowed them by the sheer force of his personality: "If I were a weak man, I would
flatter you," he once exclaimed. In the last resort he replied to their hints of his ambition
and self-seeking by offering his resignation. Here again the logic of facts was with him. For
many months he was the necessary man, and he and they knew it.

[Footnote 68: De Mazade, Thiers, p. 467. For a sharp criticism of Thiers, see Samuel Denis'
Histoire Contemperaine (written from the royalist standpoint).]

But, as we have seen, there came a time when the last hard bargains with Bismarck as to the
payment of the war debt neared their end; and the rapier-play between the Liberator of the
Territory and the parties of the Assembly also drew to a close. In one matter he had given
them just cause for complaint. As far back as November 13, 1872 (that is, before the financial
problem was solved), he suddenly and without provocation declared from the tribune of the National
Assembly that it was time to establish the Republic. The proposal was adjourned, but Thiers
had damaged his influence. He had broken the "Compact of Bordeaux" and had shown his hand.
The Assembly now knew that he was a Republican. Finally, he made a dignified speech to the
Assembly, justifying his conduct in the past, appealing from the verdict of parties to the
impartial tribunal of History, and prophesying that the welfare of France was bound up with
the maintenance of the Conservative Republic. The Assembly by a majority of fourteen decided
on a course of action that he disapproved, and he therefore resigned (May 24, 1873).

It seems that History will justify his appeal to her tribunal. Looking, not at the occasional
shifts that he used in order to disunite his opponents, but rather at the underlying motives
that prompted his resolve to maintain that form of government which least divided his countrymen,
posterity has praised his conduct as evincing keen insight into the situation, a glowing love
for France before which all his earliest predilections vanished, and a masterly skill in guiding
her from the abyss of anarchy, civil war, and bankruptcy that had but recently yawned at her
feet. Having set her upon the path of safety, he now betook himself once more to those historical
and artistic studies which he loved better than power and office. It is given to few men not
only to write history but also to make history; yet in both spheres Thiers achieved signal
success. Some one has dubbed him "the greatest little man known to history." Granting even
that the paradox is tenable, we may still assert that his influence on the life of France exceeded
that of many of her so-called heroes.

In fact, it would be difficult to point out in any country during the Nineteenth Century, since
the time of Bonaparte's Consulate, a work of political, economic, and social renovation greater
than that which went on in the two years during which Thiers held the reins of power. Apart
from the unparalleled feat of paying off the Germans, the Chief of the Executive breathed new
vigour into the public service, revived national spirit in so noteworthy a way as to bring
down threats of war from German military circles in 1872 (to be repeated more seriously in
1875), and placed on the Statute Book two measures of paramount importance. These were the
reform of Local Government and the Army Bill.

These measures claim a brief notice. The former of them naturally falls into two parts, dealing
severally with the Commune and the Department. These are the two all-important areas in French
life. In rural districts the Commune corresponds to the English parish; it is the oldest and
best-defined of all local areas. In urban districts it corresponds with the municipality or
township. The Revolutionists of 1790 and 1848 had sought to apply the principle of manhood
suffrage to communal government; but their plans were swept away by the ensuing reactions,
and the dawn of the Third Republic found the Communes, both rural and urban, under the control
of the préfets and their subordinates. We must note here that the office of préfet, instituted
by Bonaparte in 1800, was designed to link the local government of the Departments closely
to the central power: this magistrate, appointed by the Executive at Paris, having almost unlimited
control over local affairs throughout the several Departments. Indeed, it was against the excessive
centralisation of the prefectorial system that the Parisian Communists made their heedless
and unmeasured protest. The question having thus been thrust to the front, the Assembly brought
forward (April 1871) a measure authorising the election of Communal Councils elected by every
adult man who had resided for a year in the Commune. A majority of the Assembly wished that
the right of choosing mayors should rest with the Communal Councils, but Thiers, browbeating
the deputies by his favourite device of threatening to resign, carried an amendment limiting
this right to towns of less than 20,000 inhabitants. In the larger towns, and in all capitals
of Departments, the mayors were to be appointed by the central power. Thus the Napoleonic tradition
in favour of keeping local government under the oversight of officials nominated from Paris
was to some extent perpetuated even in an avowedly democratic measure.

Paris was to have a Municipal Council composed of eighty members elected by manhood suffrage
from each ward; but the mayors of the twenty arrondissements, into which Paris is divided,
were, and still are, appointed by the State; and here again the control of the police and other
extensive powers are vested in the Préfet of the Department of the Seine, not in the mayors
of the arrondissements or the Municipal Council. The Municipal or Communal Act of 1871, then,
is a compromise--on the whole a good working compromise--between the extreme demands for local
self-government and the Napoleonic tradition, now become an instinct with most Frenchmen in
favour of central control over matters affecting public order[69].

[Footnote 69: On the strength of this instinct see Mr. Bodley's excellent work, France, vol.
i. pp. 32-42. etc. For the Act, see Hanotaux op. cit. pp. 236-238.]

The matter of Army Reform was equally pressing. Here, again, Thiers had the ground cleared
before him by a great overturn, like that which enabled Bonaparte in his day to remodel France,
and the builders of Modern Prussia--Stein, Scharnhorst, and Hardenberg--to build up their State
from its ruins. In particular, the inefficiency of the National Guards and of the Garde Mobile
made it easy to reconstruct the French Army on the system of universal conscription in a regular
army, the efficiency of which Prussia had so startlingly displayed in the campaigns of Königgrätz
(Sadowa) and Sedan. Thiers, however, had no belief in a short service system with its result
of a huge force of imperfectly trained troops: he clung to the old professional army; and when
that was shown to be inadequate to the needs of the new age, he pleaded that the period of
compulsory service should be, not three, but five years. On the Assembly demurring to the expense
and vital strain for the people which this implied, he declared with passionate emphasis that
he would resign unless the five years were voted. They were voted (June 10, 1872). At the same
time, the exemptions, so numerous during the Second Empire, were curtailed and the right of
buying a substitute was swept away. After five years' service with the active army were to
come four years with the reserve of the active army, followed by further terms in the territorial
army. The favour of one year's service instead of five was to be accorded in certain well-defined
cases, as, for instance, to those who had distinguished themselves at the Lycées, or highest
grade public schools. Such was the law which was published on July 27, 1872[70].

[Footnote 70: Hanotaux, op. cit. pp. 452-465.]

The sight of a nation taking on itself this heavy blood-tax (heavier than that of Germany,
where the time of service with the colours was only for three years) aroused universal surprise,
which beyond the Rhine took the form of suspicion that France was planning a war of revenge.
That feeling grew in intensity in military circles in Berlin three years later, as the sequel
will show. Undaunted by the thinly-veiled threats that came from Germany, France proceeded
with the tasks of paying off her conquerors and reorganising her own forces; so that Thiers
on his retirement from office could proudly point to the recovery of French credit and prestige
after an unexampled overthrow.

In feverish haste, the monarchical majority of the National Assembly appointed Marshal MacMahon
to the Presidency (May 24, 1873). They soon found out, however, the impossibility of founding
a monarchy. The Comte de Paris, in whom the hopes of the Orleanists centred, went to the extreme
of self-sacrifice, by visiting the Comte de Chambord, the Legitimist "King" of France, and
recognising the validity of his claims to the throne. But this amiable pliability, while angering
very many of the Orleanists, failed to move the monarch-designate by one hair's-breadth from
those principles of divine right against which the more liberal monarchists always protested.
"Henri V." soon declared that he would neither accept any condition nor grant a single guarantee
as to the character of his future rule. Above all, he declared that he would never give up
the white flag of the ancien régime. In his eyes the tricolour, which, shortly after the fall
of the Bastille, Louis XVI. had recognised as the flag of France, represented the spirit of
the Great Revolution, and for that great event he had the deepest loathing. As if still further
to ruin his cause, the Count announced his intention of striving with all his might for the
restoration of the Temporal Power of the Pope. It is said that the able Bishop of Orleans,
Mgr. Dupanloup, on reading one of the letters by which the Comte de Chambord nailed the white
flag to the mast, was driven to exclaim, "There! That makes the Republic! Poor France! All
is lost."

Thus the attempts at fusion of the two monarchical parties had only served to expose the weaknesses
of their position and to warn France of the probable results of a monarchical restoration.
That the country had well learnt the lesson appeared in the bye-elections, which in nearly
every case went in favour of Republican candidates. Another event that happened early in 1873
further served to justify Thiers' contention that the Republic was the only possible form of
government. On January 9, Napoleon III. died of the internal disease which for seven years
past had been undermining his strength. His son, the Prince Imperial, was at present far too
young to figure as a claimant to the throne.

It is also an open secret that Bismarck worked hard to prevent all possibility of a royalist
Restoration; and when the German ambassador at Paris, Count Arnim, opposed his wishes in this
matter, he procured his recall and subjected him to a State prosecution. In fact, Bismarck
believed that under a Republic France would be powerless in war, and, further, that she could
never form that alliance with Russia which was the bugbear of his later days. A Russian diplomatist
once told the Duc de Broglie that the kind of Republic which Bismarck wanted to see in France
was "une République dissolvante."

Everything therefore concurred to postpone the monarchical question, and to prolong the informal
truce which Thiers had been the first to bring about. Accordingly, in the month of November,
the Assembly extended the Presidency of Marshal MacMahon to seven years--a period therefore
known as the Septennate.

Having now briefly shown the causes of the helplessness of the monarchical majority in the
matter that it had most nearly at heart, we must pass over subsequent events save as they refer
to that crowning paradox--the establishment of a Republican Constitution. This was due to the
despair felt by many of the Orleanists of seeing a restoration during the lifetime of the Comte
de Chambord, and to the alarm felt by all sections of the monarchists at the activity and partial
success of the Bonapartists, who in the latter part of 1874 captured a few seats. Seeking above
all things to keep out a Bonaparte, they did little to hinder the formation of a Constitution
which all of them looked on as provisional. In fact, they adopted the policy of marking time
until the death of the Comte de Chambord--whose hold on life proved to be no less tenacious
than on his creed--should clear up the situation. Accordingly, after many diplomatic delays,
the Committee which in 1873 had been charged to draw up the Constitution, presented its plan,
which took form in the organic laws of February 25, 1875. They may be thus summarised:--

The Legislature consists of two Assemblies--the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, the former
being elected by "universal" (or, more properly, manhood) suffrage. The composition of the
Senate, as determined by a later law, lies with electoral bodies in each of the Departments;
these bodies consist of the national deputies for that Department, the members of their General
Councils and District Councils, and delegates from the Municipal Councils. Senators are elected
for nine years; deputies to the Chamber of Deputies for four years. The President of the Republic
is chosen by the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies sitting together for that purpose. He is
chosen for seven years and is eligible for re-election; he is responsible to the Chambers only
in case of high treason; he enjoys, conjointly with the members of the two Chambers, the right
of proposing laws; he promulgates them when passed and supervises their execution; he disposes
of the armed forces of France and has the right of pardon formerly vested in the Kings of France.
Conformably to the advice of the Senate he may dissolve the Chamber of Deputies. Each Chamber
may initiate proposals for laws, save that financial measures rest solely with the Chamber
of Deputies.

The Chambers may decide that the Constitution shall be revised. In that case, they meet together,
as a National Assembly, to carry out such revision, which is determined by the bare majority.
Each arrondissement, or district of a Department, elects one deputy. From 1885 to 1889 the
elections were decided by each Department on a list, but since that time the earlier plan has
been revived. We may also add that the seat of government was fixed at Versailles; four years
later this was altered in favour of Paris, but certain of the most important functions, such
as the election of a new President, take place at Versailles.

Taken as a whole, this Constitution was a clever compromise between the democratic and autocratic
principles of government. Having its roots in manhood suffrage, it delegated very extensive
powers to the head of the State. These powers are especially noteworthy if we compare them
with those of the Ministry. The President commissions such and such a senator or deputy to
form a Ministry (not necessarily representing the opinions of the majority of the Chambers);
and that Ministry is responsible to the Chambers for the execution of laws and the general
policy of the Government; but the President is not responsible to the Chambers, save in the
single and very exceptional case of high treason to the State. Obviously, the Assembly wished
to keep up the autocratic traditions of the past as well as to leave open the door for a revision
of the Constitution at any time favourable to the monarchical cause. That this Constitution
did not pave the way for the monarchy was due to several causes. Some we have named above.

Another and perhaps a final cause was the unwillingness or inability of Marshal MacMahon to
bring matters to the test of force. Actuated, perhaps, by motives similar to those which kept
the Duke of Wellington from pushing matters to an extreme in England in 1831, the Marshal refused
to carry out a coup d'état against the Republican majority sent up to the Chamber of Deputies
by the General Election of January 1876. Once or twice he seemed on the point of using force.
Thus, in May 1877, he ventured to dissolve the Chamber of Deputies; but the Republican party,
led by the impetuous Gambetta, appealed to the country with decisive results. That orator's
defiant challenge to the Marshal, either to submit or to resign (se soumettre ou se démettre)
was taken up by France, with the result that nearly all the Republican deputies were re-elected.
The President recognised the inevitable, and in December of that year charged M. Dufaure to
form a Ministry that represented the Republican majority. In January 1879 even, some senatorial
elections went against the President, and he accordingly resigned, January 30, 1879.

In the year 1887 the Republic seemed for a time to be in danger owing to the intrigues of the
Minister for War, General Boulanger. Making capital out of the difficulties of France, the
financial scandals brought home to President Grévy, and his own popularity with the army, the
General seemed to be preparing a coup d'état. The danger increased when the Ministry had to
resign office (May 1887). A "National party" was formed, consisting of monarchists, Bonapartists,
clericals, and even some crotchety socialists--in fact, of all who hoped to make capital out
of the fell of the Parliamentary regime. The malcontents called for a plebiscite as to the
form of government, hoping by these means to thrust in Boulanger as dictator to pave the way
for the Comte de Paris up to the throne of France. After a prolonged crisis, the scheme ignominiously
collapsed at the first show of vigour on the Republican side. When the new Floquet Ministry
summoned Boulanger to appear before the High Court of Justice, he fled to Belgium, and shortly
afterwards committed suicide.

The chief feature of French political life, if one reviews it in its broad outlines, is the
increase of stability. When we remember that that veteran opportunist, Talleyrand, on taking
the oath of allegiance to the new Constitution of 1830, could say, "It is the thirteenth,"
and that no régime after that period lasted longer than eighteen years, we shall be chary of
foretelling the speedy overthrow of the Third Republic at any and every period of Ministerial
crisis or political ferment. Certainly the Republic has seen Ministries made and unmade in
bewilderingly quick succession; but these are at most superficial changes--the real work of
administration being done by the hierarchy of permanent officials first established by the
great Napoleon. Even so terrible an event as the murder of President Sadi Carnot (June 1894)
produced none of the fatal events that British alarmists confidently predicted. M. Casimir
Périer was quietly elected and ruled firmly. The same may be said of his successors, MM. Faure
and Loubet. Sensible, businesslike men of bourgeois origin, they typify the new France that
has grown up since the age when military adventurers could keep their heels on her neck provided
that they crowned her brow with laurels. That age would seem to have passed for ever away.
A well-known adage says: "It is the unexpected that happens in French politics." To forecast
their course is notoriously unsafe in that land of all lands. That careful and sagacious student
of French life, Mr. Bodley, believes that the nation at heart dislikes the prudent tameness
of Parliamentary rule, and that "the day will come when no power will prevent France from hailing
a hero of her choice[71]."

[Footnote 71: Mr. Bodley, France, vol. i. ad fin.]

Doubtless the advent of a Napoleon the Great would severely test the qualities of prudence
and patience that have gained strength under the shelter of democratic institutions. Yet it
must always be remembered that Democracy has until now never had a fair chance in France. The
bright hopes of 1789 faded away ten years later amidst the glamour of military glory. As for
the Republic of 1848, it scarcely outlived the troubles of infancy. The Third Republic, on
the other hand, has attained to manhood. It has met and overcome very many difficulties; at
the outset parts of two valued provinces and a vast sum of treasure were torn away. In those
early days of weakness it also crushed a serious revolt. The intrigues of Monarchists and Bonapartists
were foiled. Hardest task of all, the natural irritation of Frenchmen at playing a far smaller
part in the world was little by little allayed.

In spite of these difficulties, the Third Republic has now lasted a quarter of a century. That
is to say, it rests on the support of a generation which has gradually become accustomed to
representative institutions--an advantage which its two predecessors did not enjoy. The success
of institutions depends in the last resort on the character of those who work them; and the
testimony of all observers is that the character of Frenchmen has slowly but surely changed
in the direction which Thiers pointed out in the dark days of February 1871 as offering the
only means of a sound national revival--"Yes: I believe in the future of France: I believe
in it, but on condition that we have good sense; that we no longer use mere words as the current
coin of our speech, but that under words we shall place realities; that we have not only good
sense, but good sense endowed with courage."

These are the qualities that have built up the France of to-day. The toil has been enormous,
and it has been doubled by the worries and disappointments incident to Parliamentarism when
grafted on to a semi-military bureaucracy; but the toil and the disappointments have played
their part in purging the French nature of the frothy sensationalism and eager irresponsibility
that naturally resulted from the Imperialism of the two Napoleons. France seems to be outgrowing
the stage of hobble-de-hoyish ventures, military or communistic, and to have taken on the staid,
sober, and self-respecting mien of manhood--a process helped on by the burdens of debt and
conscription resulting from her juvenile escapades. In a word, she has attained to a full sense
of responsibility. No longer are her constructive powers hopelessly outmatched by her critical
powers. In the political sphere she has found a due balance between the brain and the hand.
From analysis she has worked her way to synthesis.

NOTE TO THE SECOND EDITION

The following are the Ministries of the Republic in 1870-1900:--1870, Favre; 1871, Dufaure
(1); 1873, De Broglie (1); 1874, Cissey; 1875, Buffet; 1876, Dufaure (2); 1876, Simon; 1877,
De Broglie (2); 1877, De Rochebouet; 1877, Dufaure (3); 1879, Waddington; 1879, Freycinet (1);
1880, Ferry (1); 1881, Gambetta; 1882, Freycinet (2); 1882, Duclerc; 1883, Fallières; 1883,
Ferry (2); 1885, Brisson; 1886, Freycinet (3); 1886, Goblet; 1887, Rouvier; 1887, Tirard (1);
1888, Floquet; 1889, Tirard (2); 1890, Freycinet (4); 1892, Loubet; 1892, Ribot (1); 1892,
Dupuy (1); 1893, Casimir Périer; 1894, Dupuy (2); 1895, Ribot (2); 1895, Bourgeois; 1896, Méline;
1898, Brisson; 1898 Dupuy (3); 1899, Waldeck-Rousseau.

CHAPTER VI

THE GERMAN EMPIRE

     "From the very beginning of my career my sole guiding-star
     has been how to unify Germany, and, that being achieved, how
     to strengthen, complete, and so constitute her unification
     that it may be preserved enduringly and with the goodwill of
     all concerned in it."--BISMARCK: Speech in the North German
     Reichstag, July 9, 1869.

On the 18th of January 1871, while the German cannon were still thundering against Paris, a
ceremony of world-wide import occurred in the Palace of the Kings of France at Versailles.
King William of Prussia was proclaimed German Emperor. The scene lacked no element that could
appeal to the historic imagination. It took place in the Mirror Hall, where all that was brilliant
in the life of the old French monarchy used to encircle the person of Louis XIV. And now, long
after that dynasty had passed away, and when the crown of the last of the Corsican adventurers
had but recently fallen beneath the feet of the Parisians, the descendant of the Prussian Hohenzollerns
celebrated the advent to the German people of that unity for which their patriots had vainly
struggled for centuries.

The men who had won this long-deferred boon were of no common stamp. King William himself,
as is now shown by the publication of many of his letters to Bismarck, had played a far larger
share in the making of a united Germany than was formerly believed. His plain good sense and
unswerving fortitude had many times marked out the path of safety and kept his country therein.
The policy of the Army Bill of 1860, which brought salvation to Prussia in spite of her Parliament,
was wholly his. Bismarck's masterful grip of the helm of State in and after 1862 helped to
carry out that policy, just as von Roon's organising ability perfected the resulting military
machine; but its prime author was the King, who now stood triumphant in the hall of his ancestral
foes. Beside and behind him on the dais, in front of the colours of all the German States,
were the chief princes of Germany--witnesses to the strength of the national sentiment which
the wars against the First Napoleon had called forth, and the struggle with the nephew had
now brought to maturity. Among their figures one might note the stalwart form of the Crown
Prince, along with other members of the House of Prussia; the Grand Duke of Baden, son-in-law
of the Prussian King; the Crown Prince of Saxony, and representatives of every reigning family
of Germany. Still more remarkable were some of the men grouped before the King and princes.
There was the thin war-worn face of Moltke; there, too, the sturdy figure of Bismarck: the
latter, wrote Dr. Russell, "looking pale, but calm and self-possessed, elevated, as it were,
by some internal force[72]."

[Footnote 72: Quoted by C. Lowe, Life of Bismarck, vol. i. p. 615.]

The King announced the re-establishment of the German Empire; and those around must have remembered
that that venerable institution (which differed so widely from the present one that the word
"re-establishment" was really misleading) had vanished but sixty-four years before at the behests
of the First Napoleon. Next, Bismarck read the Kaiser's proclamation, stating his sense of
duty to the German nation and his hope that, within new and stronger boundaries, which would
guarantee them against attacks from France, they would enjoy peace and prosperity. The Grand
Duke of Baden then called for three cheers for the Emperor, which were given with wild enthusiasm,
and were taken up by the troops far round the iron ring that encircled Paris.

Few events in history so much impress one, at first sight, with a sense of strength, spontaneity,
and inevitableness. And yet, as more is known of the steps that led up to the closer union
of the German States, that feeling is disagreeably warped. Even then it was known that Bavaria
and Würtemberg strongly objected to the closer form of union desired by the northern patriots,
which would have reduced the secondary States to complete dependence on the federal Government.
Owing to the great reluctance of the Bavarian Government and people to give up the control
of their railways, posts and telegraphs, these were left at their disposal, the two other Southern
States keeping the direction of the postal and telegraphic services in time of peace. Bavaria
and Würtemberg likewise reserved the control of their armed forces, though in case of war they
were to be placed at the disposal of the Emperor--arrangements which also hold good for the
Saxon forces. In certain legal and fiscal matters Bavaria also bargained for freedom of action.

What was not known then, and has leaked out in more or less authentic ways, was the dislike,
not only of most of the Bavarian people, but also of its Government, to the whole scheme of
imperial union. It is certain that the letter which King Louis finally wrote to his brother
princes to propose that union was originally drafted by Bismarck; and rumour asserts, on grounds
not to be lightly dismissed, that the opposition of King Louis was not withdrawn until the
Bavarian Court favourite, Count Holstein, came to Versailles and left it, not only with Bismarck's
letter, but also with a considerable sum of money for his royal master and himself. Probably,
however, the assent of the Bavarian monarch, who not many years after became insane, was helped
by the knowledge that if he did not take the initiative, it would pass to the Grand Duke of
Baden, an ardent champion of German unity.

Whatever may be the truth as to this, there can be no doubt as to the annoyance felt by Roman
Catholic Bavaria and Protestant democratic Würtemberg at accepting the supremacy of the Prussian
bureaucracy. This doubtless explains why Bismarck was so anxious to hurry through the negotiations,
first, for the imperial union, and thereafter for the conclusion of peace with France.

Even in a seemingly small matter he had met with much opposition, this time from his master.
The aged monarch clung to the title King of Prussia; but if the title of Emperor was a political
necessity, he preferred the title "Emperor of Germany"; nevertheless, the Chancellor tactfully
but firmly pointed out that this would imply a kind of feudal over-lordship of all German lands,
and that the title "German Emperor", as that of chief of the nation, was far preferable. In
the end the King yielded, but he retained a sore feeling against his trusted servant for some
time on this matter. It seems that at one time he even thought of abdicating in favour of his
son rather than "see the Prussian title supplanted[73]." However, he soon showed his gratitude
for the immense services rendered by Bismarck to the Fatherland. On his next birthday (March
22) he raised the Chancellor to the rank of Prince and appointed him Chancellor of the Empire.

[Footnote 73: E. Marcks, Kaiser Wilhelm I. (Leipzig, 1900), pp. 337-343.]

It will be well to give here an outline of the Imperial Constitution. In all essentials it
was an extension, with few changes, of the North German federal compact of the year 1866. It
applied to the twenty-five States of Germany--inclusive, that is, of Hamburg, Bremen, and Lubeck,
but exclusive, for the present, of Elsass-Lothringen (Alsace-Lorraine). In those areas imperial
law takes precedence of local law (save in a few specially reserved cases for Bavaria and the
Free Cities). The same laws of citizenship hold good in all parts of the Empire. The Empire
controls these laws, the issuing of passports, surveillance of foreigners and of manufactures,
likewise matters relating to emigration and colonisation. Commerce, customs dues, weights and
measures, coinage, banking regulations, patents, the consular service abroad, and matters relating
to navigation also fall under its control. Railways, posts and telegraphs (with the exceptions
noted above) are subject to imperial supervision, the importance of which during the war had
been so abundantly manifested.

The King of Prussia is ipso facto German Emperor. He represents the Empire among foreign nations;
he has the right to declare war, conclude peace, and frame alliances; but the consent of the
Federal Council (Bundesrath) is needed for the declaration of war in the name of the Empire.
The Emperor convenes, adjourns, and closes the sessions of the Federal Council and the Imperial
Diet (Reichstag). They are convened every year. The Chancellor of the Empire presides in the
Federal Council and supervises the conduct of its business. Proposals of laws are laid before
the Reichstag in accordance with the resolutions of the Federal Council, and are supported
by members of that Council. To the Emperor belongs the right of preparing and publishing the
laws of the Empire: they must be passed by the Bundesrath and Reichstag, and then receive the
assent of the Kaiser. They are then countersigned by the Chancellor, who thereby becomes responsible
for their due execution.

The members of the Bundesrath are appointed by the Federal Governments: they are sixty-two
in number, and now include those from the Reichstand of Elsass-Lothringen (Alsace-Lorraine)[74]

[Footnote 74: Up to 1874 the government of Alsace-Lorraine was vested solely in the Emperor
and Chancellor. In 1874 the conquered lands returned deputies to the Reichstag. In October
1879 they gained local representative institutions, but under the strict control of the Governor,
Marshal von Manteuffel. This control has since been relaxed, the present administration being
quasi-constitutional.]

The Prussian Government nominates seventeen members; Bavaria six; Saxony and Würtemburg and
Alsace-Lorraine four each; and so on. The Bundesrath is presided over by the Imperial Chancellor.
At the beginning of each yearly session it appoints eleven standing committees to deal with
the following matters: (1) Army and fortifications; (2) the Navy; (3) tariff, excise, and taxes;
(4) commerce and trade; (5) railways, posts and telegraphs; (6) civil and criminal law; (7)
financial accounts; (8) foreign affairs; (9) Alsace-Lorraine; (10) the Imperial Constitution;
(11) Standing Orders. Each committee is presided over by a chairman. In each committee at least
four States of the Empire must be represented, and each State is entitled only to one vote.
To this rule there are two modifications in the case of the committees on the army and on foreign
affairs. In the former of these Bavaria has a permanent seat, while the Emperor appoints the
other three members from as many States: in the latter case, Prussia, Bavaria, Saxony, and
Würtemberg only are represented. The Bundesrath takes action on the measures to be proposed
to the Reichstag and the resolutions passed by that body; it also supervises the execution
of laws, and may point out any defects in the laws or in their execution.

The members of the Reichstag, or Diet, are elected by universal (more properly manhood) suffrage
and by direct secret ballot, in proportion to the population of the several States[75]. On
the average, each of the 397 members represents rather more than 100,000 of the population.
The proceedings of the Reichstag are public; it has the right (concurrently with those wielded
by the Emperor and the Bundesrath) to propose laws for the Empire. It sits for three years,
but may be dissolved by a resolution of the Bundesrath, with the consent of the Emperor. Deputies
may not be bound by orders and instructions issued by their constituents. They are not paid.

[Footnote 75: Bismarck said in a speech to the Reichstag, on September 16, 1878: "I accepted
universal suffrage, but with repugnance, as a Frankfurt tradition."]

As has been noted above, important matters such as railway management, so far as it relates
to the harmonious and effective working of the existing systems, and the construction of new
lines needful for the welfare and the defence of Germany, are under the Control of the Empire--except
in the case of Bavaria. The same holds good of posts and telegraphs except in the Southern
States. Railway companies are bound to convey troops and warlike stores at uniform reduced
rates. In fact, the Imperial Government controls the fares of all lines subject to its supervision,
and has ordered the reduction of freightage for coal, coke, minerals, wood, stone, manure,
etc., for long distances, "as demanded by the interests of agriculture and industry." In case
of dearth, the railway companies can be compelled to forward food supplies at specially low rates.

Further, with respect to military affairs, the central authority exercises a very large measure
of control over the federated States. All German troops swear the oath of allegiance to the
Emperor. He appoints all commanders of fortresses; the power of building fortresses within
the Empire is also vested in him; he determines the strength of the contingents of the federated
States, and in the last case may appoint their commanding officers; he may even proclaim martial
law in any portion of the Empire, if public security demands it. The Prussian military code
applies to all parts of the Empire (save to Bavaria, Würtemberg, and Saxony in time of peace);
and the military organisation is everywhere of the same general description, especially as
regards length of service, character of the drill, and organisation in corps and regiments.
Every German, unless physically unfit, is subject to military duty and cannot shift the burden
on a substitute. He must serve for seven years in the standing army: that is, three years in
the field army and four in the reserve; thereafter he takes his place in the Landwehr[76].

[Footnote 76: The three years are shortened to one year for those who have taken a high place
in the Gymnasia (highest of the public schools); they feed and equip themselves and are termed
"volunteers." Conscription is the rule on the coasts for service in the German Navy. For the
text of the Imperial Constitution, see Lowe, Life of Bismarck, vol. ii. App. F.]

The secondary States are protected in one important respect. The last proviso of the Imperial
Constitution stipulates that any proposal to modify it shall fail if fourteen, or more, votes
are cast against it in the Federal Council. This implies that Bavaria, Würtemberg, and Saxony,
if they vote together, can prevent any change detrimental to their interests. On the whole,
the new system is less centralised than that of the North German Confederation had been; and
many of the Prussian Liberals, with whom the Crown Prince of Prussia very decidedly ranged
himself on this question, complained that the government was more federal than ever, and that
far too much had been granted to the particularist prejudices of the Southern States[77]. To
all these objections Bismarck could unanswerably reply that it was far better to gain this
great end without bitterness, even if the resulting compact were in some respects faulty, than
to force on the Southern States a more logically perfect system that would perpetuate the sore
feeling of the past.

[Footnote 77: J.W. Headlam, Bismarck, p. 367.]

Such in its main outlines is the new Constitution of Germany. On the whole, it has worked well.
That it has fulfilled all the expectations aroused in that year of triumph and jubilation will
surprise no one who knows that absolute and lasting success is attained only in Utopias, never
in practical politics. In truth, the suddenness with which German unity was finally achieved
was in itself a danger.

The English reader will perhaps find it hard to realise this until he remembers that the whole
course of recorded history shows us the Germans politically disunited, or for the most part
engaged in fratricidal strifes. When they first came within the ken of the historians of Ancient
Rome, they were a set of warring tribes who banded together only under the pressure of overwhelming
danger; and such was to be their fate for well-nigh two thousand years. Their union under the
vigorous rule of the great Frankish chief whom the French call Charlemagne, was at best nominal
and partial. The Holy Roman Empire, which he founded in the year 800 by a mystically vague
compact with the Pope, was never a close bond of union, even in his stern and able hands. Under
his weak successors that imposing league rarely promoted peace among its peoples, while the
splendour of its chief elective dignity not seldom conduced to war. Next, feudalism came in
as a strong political solvent, and thus for centuries Germany crumbled and mouldered away,
until disunion seemed to be the fate of her richest lands, and particularism became a rooted
instinct of her princes, burghers, and peasants. Then again South was arrayed against North
during and long after the time of the Reformation; when the strife of creeds was stayed, the
rivalry of the Houses of Hapsburg and Hohenzollern added another cause of hatred.

As a matter of fact, it was reserved for the two Napoleons, uncle and nephew, to force those
divided peoples to comradeship in arms. The close of the campaign of 1813 and that of 1814
saw North and South, Prussians and Austrians, for the first time fighting heartily shoulder
to shoulder in a great war--for that of 1792-94 had only served to show their rooted suspicion
and inner hostility. Owing to reasons that cannot be stated here, the peace of 1814-15 led
up to no effective union: it even perpetuated the old dualism of interests. But once more the
hostility of France under a Napoleon strengthened the impulse to German consolidation, and
on this occasion there was at hand a man who had carefully prepared the way for an abiding
form of political union; his diplomatic campaign of the last seven years had secured Russia's
friendship and consequently Austria's reluctant neutrality; as for the dislike of the Southern
States to unite with the North, that feeling waned for a few weeks amidst the enthusiasm caused
by the German triumphs. The opportunity was unexampled: it had not occurred even in 1814; it
might never occur again; and it was certain to pass away when the war fever passed by. How
wise, then, to strike while the iron was hot! The smaller details of the welding process were
infinitely less important than the welding itself.

One last consideration remains. If the opportunity was unexampled, so also were the statesmanlike
qualities of the man who seized it. The more that we know concerning the narrowly Prussian
feelings of King William, the centralising pedantry of the Crown Prince of Prussia, and the
petty particularism of the Governments of Bavaria and Würtemberg, the more does the figure
of Bismarck stand out as that of the one great statesman of his country and era. However censurable
much of his conduct may be, his action in working up to and finally consummating German unity
at the right psychological moment stands out as one of the greatest feats of statesmanship
which history records.

But obviously a wedded life which had been preceded by no wooing, over whose nuptials Mars
shed more influence than Venus, could not be expected to run a wholly smooth course. In fact,
this latest instance in ethnical lore of marriage by capture has on the whole led to a more
harmonious result than was to be expected. Possibly, if we could lift the veil of secrecy which
is wisely kept drawn over the weightiest proceedings of the Bundesrath and its committees,
the scene would appear somewhat different. As it is, we can refer here only to some questions
of outstanding importance the details of which are fairly well known.

The first of these which subjected the new Empire to any serious strain was a sharp religious
struggle against the new claims of the Roman Catholic hierarchy. Without detailing the many
causes of friction that sprang up between the new Empire and the Roman Catholic Church, we
may state that most of them had their roots in the activity shown by that Church among the
Poles of Prussian Poland (Posen), and also in the dogma of Papal infallibility. Decreed by
the Oecumenical Council at Rome on the very eve of the outbreak of the Franco-German War, it
seemed to be part and parcel of that forward Jesuit policy which was working for the overthrow
of the chief Protestant States. Many persons--among them Bismarck[78]--claimed that the Empress
Eugénie's hatred of Prussia and the warlike influence which she is said to have exerted on
Napoleon III. on that critical day, July 14, 1870, were prompted by Jesuitical intrigues. However
that may be (and it is a matter on which no fair-minded man will dogmatise until her confidential
papers see the light) there is little doubt that the Pope at Rome and the Roman hierarchy among
the Catholics of Central and Eastern Europe did their best to prevent German unity and to introduce
elements of discord. The dogma of the infallibility of the Pope in matters of faith and doctrine
was itself a cause of strife. Many of the more learned and moderate of the German Catholics
had protested against the new dogma, and some of these "Old Catholics", as they were called,
tried to avoid teaching it in the Universities and schools. Their bishops, however, insisted
that it should be taught, placed some recalcitrants under the lesser ban, and deprived them
of their posts.

[Footnote 78: Busch, Our Chancellor, vol i. p. 139, where he quotes a conversation of Bismarck
of Nov. 1883. On the Roman Catholic policy in Posen, see ibid. pp. 143-145.]

When these high-handed proceedings were extended even to the schools, the Prussian Government
intervened, and early in 1872 passed a law ordaining that all school inspectors should be appointed
by the King's Government at Berlin. This greatly irritated the Roman Catholic hierarchy and
led up to aggressive acts on both sides, the German Reichstag taking up the matter and decreeing
the exclusion of the Jesuits from all priestly and scholastic duties of whatever kind within
the Empire (July 1872). The strife waxed ever fiercer. When the Roman Catholic bishops of Germany
persisted in depriving "Old Catholics" of professorial and other charges, the central Government
retorted by the famous "May Laws" of 1873. The first of these forbade the Roman Catholic Church
to intervene in civil affairs in any way, or to coerce officials and citizens of the Empire.
The second required of all ministers of religion that they should have passed the final examination
at a High School, and also should have studied theology for three years at a German University:
it further subjected all seminaries to State inspection. The third accorded fuller legal protection
to dissidents from the various creeds.

This anti-clerical policy is known as the "Kultur-Kampf", a term that denotes a struggle for
civilisation against the forces of reaction. For some years the strife was of the sharpest
kind. The Roman Catholic bishops continued to ban the "Old Catholics", while the State refused
to recognise any act of marriage or christening performed by clerics who disobeyed the new
laws. The logical sequel to this was obvious, namely, that the State should insist on the religious
ceremony of marriage being supplemented by a civil contract[79]. Acts to render this compulsory
were first passed by the Prussian Landtag late in 1873 and by the German Reichstag in 1875.

[Footnote 79: Lowe, Life of Bismarck, vol. ii. p. 336, note.]

It would be alike needless and tedious to detail the further stages of this bitter controversy,
especially as several of the later "May Laws" have been repealed. We may, however, note its
significance in the development of parties. Many of the Prussian nobles and squires (Junkers
the latter were called) joined issue with Bismarck on the Civil Marriage Act, and this schism
weakened Bismarck's long alliance with the Conservative party. He enjoyed, however, the enthusiastic
support of the powerful National Liberal party, as well as the Imperialist and Progressive
groups. Differing on many points of detail, these parties aimed at strengthening the fabric
of the central power, and it was with their aid in the Reichstag that the new institutions
of Germany were planted and took root. The General Election of 1874 sent up as many as 155
National Liberals, and they, with the other groups just named, gave the Government a force
of 240 votes--a good working majority as long as Bismarck's aims were of a moderately Liberal
character. This, however, was not always the case even in 1874-79, when he needed their alliance.
His demand for a permanently large military establishment alienated his allies in 1874, and
they found it hard to satisfy the requirements of his exacting and rigorous nature.

The harshness of the "May Laws" also caused endless friction. Out of some 10,000 Roman Catholic
priests in Prussia (to which kingdom alone the severest of these laws applied) only about thirty
bowed the knee to the State. In 800 parishes the strife went so far that all religious services
came to an end. In the year 1875, fines amounting to 28,000 marks (£2800) were imposed, and
103 clerics or their supporters were expelled from the Empire[80]. Clearly this state of things
could not continue without grave danger to the Empire; for the Church held on her way with
her usual doggedness, strengthened by the "protesting" deputies from the Reichsland on the
south-west, from Hanover (where the Guelph feeling was still uppermost), as well as those from
Polish Posen and Danish Schleswig. Bismarck and the anti-clerical majority of the Reichstag
scorned any thoughts of surrender. Yet, slowly but surely, events at the Vatican and in Germany
alike made for compromise. In February 1878, Pope Pius IX. passed away. That unfortunate pontiff
had never ceased to work against the interests of Prussia and Germany, while his encyclicals
since 1873 mingled threats of defiance of the May Laws with insults against Prince Bismarck.
His successor, Leo XIII. (1878-1903), showed rather more disposition to come to a compromise,
and that, too, at a time when Bismarck's new commercial policy made the support of the Clerical
Centre in the Reichstag peculiarly acceptable.

[Footnote 80: Busch, Our Chancellor, vol. i. p. 122, quotes speeches of his hero to prove that
Bismarck himself disliked this Civil Marriage Law. "From the political point of view I have
convinced myself that the State . . . is constrained by the dictates of self-defence to enact
this law in order to avert from a portion of His Majesty's subjects the evils with which they
are menaced by the Bishops' rebellion against the laws and the State" (Speech of Jan. 17, 1873).
In 1849 he had opposed civil marriage.]

Bismarck's resolve to give up the system of Free Trade, or rather of light customs dues, adopted
by Prussia and the German Zollverein in 1865, is so momentous a fact in the economic history
of the modern world, that we must here give a few facts which will enable the reader to understand
the conditions attending German commerce up to the years 1878-79, when the great change came.
The old order of things in Prussia, as in all German States, was strongly protective--in fact,
to such an extent as often to prevent the passing of the necessaries of life from one little
State to its Lilliputian neighbours. The rise of the national idea in Germany during the wars
against the great Napoleon led to a more enlightened system, especially for Prussia. The Prussian
law of 1818 asserted the principle of imposing customs dues for revenue purposes, but taxed
foreign products to a moderate extent. On this basis she induced neighbouring small German
States to join her in a Customs Union (Zollverein), which gradually extended, until by 1836
it included all the States of the present Empire except the two Mecklenburgs, the Elbe Duchies,
and the three Free Cities of Hamburg, Bremen, and Lübeck. That is to say, the attractive force
of the highly developed Prussian State practically unified Germany for purposes of trade and
commerce, and that, too, thirty-eight years before political union was achieved.

This, be it observed, was on condition of internal Free Trade, but of moderate duties being
levied on foreign products. Up to 1840 these import duties were on the whole reduced; after
that date a protectionist reaction set in; it was checked, however, by the strong wave of Free
Trade feeling which swept over Europe after the victory of that principle in England in 1846-49.
Of the new champions of Free Trade on the Continent, the foremost in point of time was Cavour,
for that kingdom of Sardinia on which he built the foundations of a regenerated and united
Italy. Far more important, however, was the victory which Cobden won in 1859-60 by inducing
Napoleon III. to depart from the almost prohibitive system then in vogue in France. The Anglo-French
Commercial Treaty of January 1860 seemed to betoken the speedy conversion of the world to the
enlightened policy of unfettered exchange of all its products. In 1862 and 1865 the German
Zollverein followed suit, relaxing duties on imported articles and manufactured goods--a process
which was continued in its commercial treaties and tariff changes of the years 1868 and 1869.

At this time Bismarck's opinions on fiscal matters were somewhat vague. He afterwards declared
that he held Free Trade to be altogether false. But in this as in other matters he certainly
let his convictions be shaped by expediency. Just before the conclusion of peace with France
he so far approximated to Free Trade as to insist that the Franco-German Commercial Treaty
of 1862, which the war had of course abrogated--- war puts an end to all treaties between the
States directly engaged--should now be again regarded as in force and as holding good up to
the year 1887[81]. He even stated that he "would rather begin again the war of cannon-balls
than expose himself to a war of tariffs." France and Germany, therefore, agreed to place one
another permanently on "the most favoured nation" footing. Yet this same man, who so much desired
to keep down the Franco-German tariff, was destined eight years later to initiate a protectionist
policy which set back the cause of Free Trade for at least a generation.

[Footnote 81: For that treaty, and Austria's desire in 1862 to enter the German Zollverein,
see The Diplomatic Reminiscences of Lord A. Loftus, vol. ii. pp. 250-251.]

What brought about this momentous change? To answer this fully would take up a long chapter.
We can only glance at the chief forces then at work. Firstly, Germany, after the year 1873,
passed through a severe and prolonged economic crisis. It was largely due to the fever of speculation
induced by the incoming of the French milliards into a land where gold had been none too plentiful.
Despite the efforts of the German Government to hold back a large part of the war indemnity
for purposes of military defence and substantial enterprises, the people imagined themselves
to be suddenly rich. Prices rapidly rose, extravagant habits spread in all directions, and
in the years 1872-73 company-promoting attained to the rank of a fine art, with the result
that sober, hard-working Germany seemed to be almost another England at the time of the South
Sea Bubble. Alluding to this time, Busch said to Bismarck early in 1887: "In the long-run the
[French] milliards were no blessing, at least not for our manufacturers, as they led to over-production.
It was merely the bankers who benefited, and of these only the big ones[82]."

[Footnote 82: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages of his History, by M. Busch, vol. iii. p. 161 (English
edition).]

The result happened that always happens when a nation mistakes money, the means of commercial
exchange, for the ultimate source of wealth. After a time of inflation came the inevitable
collapse. The unsound companies went by the board; even sound ventures were in some cases overturned.
How grievously public credit suffered may be seen by the later official admission, that liquidations
and bankruptcies of public companies in the following ten years inflicted on shareholders a
total loss of more than 345,000,000 marks (£17,250,000)[83].

[Footnote 83: German State Paper of June 28, 1884, quoted by Dawson, Bismarck and State Socialism,
App. B.]

Now, it was in the years 1876-77, while the nation lay deep in the trough of economic depression,
that the demand for "protection for home industries" grew loud and persistent. Whether it would
not have been raised even if German finance and industry had held on its way in a straight
course and on an even keel, cannot of course be determined, for the protectionist movement
had been growing since the year 1872, owing to the propaganda of the "Verein für Sozialpolitik"
(Union for Social Politics) founded in that year. But it is safe to say that the collapse of
speculation due to inflowing of the French milliards greatly strengthened the forces of economic
reaction.

Bismarck himself put it in this way: that the introduction of Free Trade in 1865 soon produced
a state of atrophy in Germany; this was checked for a time by the French war indemnity; but
Germany needed a permanent cure, namely, Protection. It is true that his ideal of national
life had always been strict and narrow--in fact, that of the average German official; but we
may doubt whether he had in view solely the shelter of the presumedly tender flora of German
industry from the supposed deadly blasts of British, Austrian, and Russian competition. He
certainly hoped to strengthen the fabric of his Empire by extending the customs system and
making its revenue depend more largely on that source and less on the contributions of the
federated States. But there was probably a still wider consideration. He doubtless wished to
bring prominently before the public gaze another great subject that would distract it from
the religious feuds described above and bring about a rearrangement of political parties. The
British people has good reason to know that the discussion of fiscal questions that vitally
touch every trade and every consumer, does act like the turning of a kaleidoscope upon party
groupings; and we may fairly well assume that so far-seeing a statesman as Bismarck must have
forecast the course of events.

Reasons of statecraft also warned him to build up the Empire four-square while yet there was
time. The rapid recovery of France, whose milliards had proved somewhat of a "Greek gift" to
Germany, had led to threats on the part of the war party at Berlin, which brought from Queen
Victoria, as also from the Czar Alexander, private but pressing intimations to Kaiser Wilhelm
that no war of extermination must take place. This affair and its results in Germany's foreign
policy will occupy us in Chapter XII. Here we may note that Bismarck saw in it a reason for
suspecting Russia, hating England, and jealously watching every movement in France. Germany's
future, it seemed, would have to be safeguarded by all the peaceable means available. How natural,
then, to tone down her internal religious strifes by bringing forward another topic of still
more absorbing interest, and to aim at building up a self-contained commercial life in the
midst of uncertain, or possibly hostile, neighbours. In truth, if we view the question in its
broad issues in the life of nations, we must grant that Free Trade could scarcely be expected
to thrive amidst the jealousies and fears entailed by the war of 1870. That principle presupposes
trust and good-will between nations; whereas the wars of 1859, 1864, and 1870 left behind bitter
memories and rankling ills. Viewed in this light, Germany's abandonment of Free Trade in 1878
was but the natural result of that forceful policy by which she had cut the Gordian knot of
her national problem.

The economic change was decided on in the year 1879, when the federated States returned to
"the time-honoured ways of 1823-65." Bismarck appealed to the Reichstag to preserve at least
the German market to German industry. The chances of having a large export trade were on every
ground precarious; but Germany could, at the worst, support herself. All interests were mollified
by having moderate duties imposed to check imports. Small customs dues were placed on corn
and other food supplies so as to please the agrarian party; imports of manufactured goods were
taxed for the benefit of German industries, and even raw materials underwent small imposts.
The Reichstag approved the change and on July 7 passed the Government's proposals by 217 to
117: the majority comprised the Conservatives, Clericals, the Alsace-Lorrainers, and a few
National Liberals; while the bulk of the last-named, hitherto Bismarck's supporters on most
topics, along with Radicals and Social Democrats, opposed it. The new tariff came into force
on January 1, 1880.

On the whole, much may be said in favour of the immediate results of the new policy. By the
year 1885 the number of men employed in iron and steel works had increased by 35 per cent over
the numbers of 1879; wages also had increased, and the returns of shipping and of the export
trade showed a considerable rise. Of course, it is impossible to say whether this would not
have happened in any case owing to the natural tendency to recovery from the deep depression
of the years 1875-79. The duties on corn did not raise its price, which appears strange until
we know that the foreign imports of corn were less than 8 per cent of the whole amount consumed.
In 1885, therefore, Bismarck gave way to the demands of the agrarians that the corn duties
should be raised still further, in order to make agriculture lucrative and to prevent the streaming
of rural population to the towns. Again the docile Reichstag followed his lead. But, two years
later, it seemed that the new corn duties had failed to check the fall of prices and keep landlords
and farmers from ruin; once more, then, the duties were raised, being even doubled on certain
food products. This time they undoubtedly had one important result, that of making the urban
population, especially that of the great industrial centres, more and more hostile to the agrarians
and to the Government which seemed to be legislating in their interests. From this time forward
the Social Democrats began to be a power in the land.

And yet, if we except the very important item of rent, which in Berlin presses with cruel weight
on the labouring classes, the general trend of the prices of the necessaries of life in Germany
has been downwards, in spite of all the protectionist duties. The evidence compiled in the
British official Blue-book on "British and Foreign Trade and Industry" (1903. Cd. 1761, p.
226) yields the following results. By comparing the necessary expenditure on food of a workman's
family of the same size and living under the same conditions, it appears that if we take that
expenditure for the period 1897-1901 to represent the number 100 we have these results:--

     +-----------+-----------+-----------------+
     |  Period.  |  Germany. | United Kingdom. |
     +-----------+-----------+-----------------+
     | 1877-1881 |    112    |       140       |
     | 1882-1886 |    101    |       125       |
     | 1887-1891 |    103    |       106       |
     | 1892-1896 |     99    |        98       |
     | 1897-1901 |    100    |       100       |
     +-----------+-----------+-----------------+

Thus the fall in the cost of living of a British working man's family has been 40 points, while
that of the German working man shows a decline of only 12 points. It is, on the whole, surprising
that there has not been more difference between the two countries[84].

[Footnote 84: In a recent work, England and the English (London, 1904), Dr. Carl Peters says:
"Considering that wages in England average 20 per cent higher in England than in Germany, that
the week has only 54 working hours, and that all articles of food are cheaper, the fundamental
conditions of prosperous home-life are all round more favourable in England than in Germany.
And yet he [the British working-man] does not derive greater comfort from them, for the simple
reason that a German labourer's wife is more economical and more industrious than the English
wife."] Before dealing with the new social problems that resulted, at least in part, from the
new duties on food, we may point out that Bismarck and his successors at the German Chancellory
have used the new tariff as a means of extorting better terms from the surrounding countries.
The Iron Chancellor has always acted on the diplomatic principle do ut des--"I give that you
may give"--with its still more cynical corollary--"Those who have nothing to give will get
nothing." The new German tariff on agricultural products was stiffly applied against Austria
for many years, to compel her to grant more favourable terms to German manufactured goods.
For eleven years Austria-Hungary maintained their protective barriers; but in 1891 German persistence
was rewarded in the form of a treaty by which the Dual Monarchy let in German goods on easier
terms provided that the corn duties of the northern Power were relaxed. The fiscal strife with
Russia was keener and longer, but had the same result (1894). Of a friendlier kind were the
negotiations with Italy, Belgium, and Switzerland, which led to treaties with those States
in 1891. It is needless to say that in each of these cases the lowering of the corn duties
was sharply resisted by the German agrarians. We may here add that the Anglo-German commercial
treaty which expired in 1903 has been extended for two years; and that Germany's other commercial
treaties were at the same time continued.

It is hazardous at present to venture on any definite judgment as to the measure of success
attained by the German protectionist policy. Protectionists always point to the prosperity
of Germany as the crowning proof of its efficacy. In one respect they are, perhaps, fully justified
in so doing. The persistent pressure which Germany brought to bear on the even more protectionist
systems of Russia and Austria undoubtedly induced those Powers to grant easier terms to German
goods than they would have done had Germany lost her bargaining power by persisting in her
former Free Trade tendencies. Her success in this matter is the best instance in recent economic
history of the desirability of holding back something in reserve so as to be able to bargain
effectively with a Power that keeps up hostile tariffs. In this jealously competitive age the
State that has nothing more to offer is as badly off in economic negotiations as one that,
in affairs of general policy, has no armaments wherewith to face a well-equipped foe. This
consideration is of course scouted as heretical by orthodox economists; but it counts for much
in the workaday world, where tariff wars and commercial treaty bargainings unfortunately still
distract the energies of mankind.

On the other hand, it would be risky to point to the internal prosperity of Germany and the
vast growth of her exports as proofs of the soundness of protectionist theories. The marvellous
growth of that prosperity is very largely due to the natural richness of a great part of the
country, to the intelligence, energy, and foresight of her people and their rulers, and to
the comparatively backward state of German industry and commerce up to the year 1870. Far on
into the Nineteenth Century, Germany was suffering from the havoc wrought by the Napoleonic
wars and still earlier struggles. Even after the year 1850, the political uncertainties of
the time prevented her enjoying the prosperity that then visited England and France. Therefore,
only since 1870 (or rather since 1877-78, when the results of the mad speculation of 1873 began
to wear away) has she entered on the normal development of a modern industrial State; and he
would be an eager partisan who would put down her prosperity mainly to the credit of the protectionist
régime. In truth, no one can correctly gauge the value of the complex causes--economic, political,
educational, scientific and engineering--that make for the prosperity of a vast industrial
community. So closely are they intertwined in the nature of things, that dogmatic arguments
laying stress on one of them alone must speedily be seen to be the merest juggling with facts
and figures.

As regards the wider influences exerted by Germany's new protective policy, we can here allude
only to one; and that will be treated more fully in the chapter dealing with the Partition
of Africa. That policy gave a great stimulus to the colonial movement in Germany, and, through
her, in all European States. As happened in the time of the old Mercantile System, Powers which
limited their trade with their neighbours, felt an imperious need for absorbing new lands in
the tropics to serve as close preserves for the mother-country. Other circumstances helped
to impel Germany on the path of colonial expansion; but probably the most important, though
the least obvious, was the recrudescence of that "Mercantilism" which Adam Smith had exploded.
Thus, the triumph of the national principle in and after 1870 was consolidated by means which
tended to segregate the human race in masses, regarding each other more or less as enemies
or rivals, alike in the spheres of politics, commerce, and colonial expansion.

We may conclude our brief survey of German constructive policy by glancing at the chief of
the experiments which may be classed as akin to State Socialism.

In 1882 the German Government introduced the Sickness Insurance Bill and the Accident Insurance
Bill, but they were not passed till 1884, and did not take effect till 1885. For the relief
of sickness the Government relied on existing institutions organised for that object. This
was very wise, seeing that the great difficulty is how to find out whether a man really is
ill or is merely shamming illness. Obviously a local club can find that out far better than
a great imperial agency can. The local club has every reason for looking sharply after doubtful
cases as a State Insurance Fund cannot do. As regards sickness, then, the Imperial Government
merely compelled all the labouring classes, with few exceptions, to belong to some sick fund.
They were obliged to pay in a sum of not less than about fourpence in the pound of their weekly
wages; and this payment of the workman has to be supplemented by half as much, paid by his
employer--or rather, the employer pays the whole of the premium and deducts the share payable
by the workman from his wages.

Closely linked with this is the Accident Insurance Law. Here the brunt of the payment falls
wholly on the employer. He alone pays the premiums for all his work-people; the amount varies
according to (1) the man's wage, (2) the risk incidental to the employment. The latter is determined
by the actuaries of the Government. If a man is injured (even if it be by his own carelessness)
he receives payments during the first thirteen weeks from the ordinary Sick Fund. If his accident
keeps him a prisoner any longer, he is paid from the Accident Fund of the employers of that
particular trade, or from the Imperial Accident Fund. Here of course the chance of shamming
increases, particularly if the man knows that he is being supported out of a general fund made
up entirely by the employers' payments. The burden on the employers is certainly very heavy,
seeing that for all kinds of accidents relief may be claimed; the only exception is in cases
where the injury can be shown to be wilfully committed[85]. A British Blue-book issued on March
31, 1905, shows that the enormous sum of £5,372,150 was paid in Germany in the year 1902 as
compensation to workmen for injuries sustained while at work.

[Footnote 85: For the account given above, as also that of the Old Age Insurance Law, I am
indebted to Mr. Dawson's excellent little work, Bismarck and State Socialism (Swan Sonnenschein
& Co., 1890). See also the Appendix to The German Empire of To-day, by "Veritas" (1902).]

The burden of the employers does not end here. They have to bear their share of Old Age Insurance.
This law was passed in 1889, at the close of the first year of the present Kaiser's reign.
His father, the Emperor Frederick, during his brief reign had not favoured the principles of
State Socialism; but the young Emperor William in November 1888 announced that he would further
the work begun by his grandfather, and though the difficulties of insurance for old age were
very great, yet, with God's help, they would prove not to be insuperable.

Certainly the effort was by far the greatest that had yet been made by any State. The young
Emperor and his Chancellor sought to build up a fund whereby 12,000,000 of work-people might
be guarded against the ills of a penniless old age. Their law provided for all workmen (even
men in domestic service) whose yearly income did not exceed 2000 marks (£100). Like the preceding
laws, it was compulsory. Every youth who is physically and mentally sound, and who earns more
than a minimum wage, must begin to put by a fixed proportion of that wage as soon as he completes
his sixteenth year. His employer is also compelled to contribute the same amount for him. Mr.
Dawson, in the work already referred to, gives some figures showing what the joint payment
of employer and employed amount to on this score. If the workman earns £15 a year (i.e. about
6s. a week), the sum of 3s. 3-1/2d. is put by for him yearly into the State Fund. If he earns
£36 a year, the joint annual payment will be 5s. 7-1/2d.; if he earns £78, it will be 7s. a
year, and so on. These payments are reckoned up in various classes, according to the amounts;
and according to the total amount is the final annuity payable to the worker in the evening
of his days. That evening is very slow in coming for the German worker. For old age merely,
he cannot begin to draw his full pension until he has attained the ripe age of seventy-one
years. Then he will draw the full amount. He may anticipate that if he be incapacitated; but
in that case the pension will be on a lower scale, proportioned to the amounts paid in and
the length of time of the payments.

The details of the measure are so complex as to cause a good deal of friction and discontent.
The calculation of the various payments alone employs an army of clerks: the need of safeguarding
against personation and other kinds of fraud makes a great number of precautions necessary;
and thus the whole system becomes tied up with red tape in a way that even the more patient
workman of the Continent cannot endure.

In a large measure, then, the German Government has failed in its efforts to cure the industrial
classes of their socialistic ideas. But its determination to attach them to the new German
Empire, and to make that Empire the leading industrial State of the Continent, has had a complete
triumph. So far as education, technical training, research, and enlightened laws can make a
nation great, Germany is surely on the high road to national and industrial supremacy.

It is a strange contrast that meets our eyes if we look back to the years before the advent
of King William and Bismarck to power. In the dark days of the previous reign Germany was weak,
divided, and helpless. In regard to political life and industry she was still almost in swaddling-clothes;
and her struggles to escape from the irksome restraints of the old Confederation seemed likely
to be as futile as they had been since the year 1815. But the advent of the King and his sturdy
helper to power speedily changed the situation. The political problems were grappled with one
by one, and were trenchantly solved. Union was won by Bismarck's diplomacy and Prussia's sword;
and when the longed-for goal was reached in seven momentous years, the same qualities were
brought to bear on the difficult task of consolidating that union. Those qualities were the
courage and honesty of purpose that the House of Hohenzollern has always displayed since the
days of the Great Elector; added to these were rarer gifts, namely, the width of view, the
eagle foresight, the strength of will, the skill in the choice of means, that made up the imposing
personality of Bismarck. It was with an eye to him, and to the astonishing triumphs wrought
by his diplomacy over France, that a diplomatist thus summed up the results of the year 1870:
"Europe has lost a mistress, but she has got a master."

After the lapse of a generation that has been weighted with the cuirass of Militarism, we are
able to appreciate the force of that remark. Equally true is it that the formation of the German
Empire has not added to the culture and the inner happiness of the German people. The days
of quiet culture and happiness are gone; and in their place has come a straining after ambitious
aims which is a heavy drag even on the vitality of the Teutonic race. Still, whether for good
or for evil, the unification of Germany must stand out as the greatest event in the history
of the Nineteenth Century.

NOTE TO THE SECOND EDITION

The statement on page 135 that service in the German army is compulsory for seven years, three
in the field army and four in the reserve, applies to the cavalry and artillery only. In the
infantry the time of service is two years with the colours and five years in the reserve.

CHAPTER VII

THE EASTERN QUESTION

     "Perhaps one fact which lies at the root of all the actions
     of the Turks, small and great, is that they are by nature
     nomads. . . . Hence it is that when the Turk retires from a
     country he leaves no more sign of himself than does a Tartar
     camp on the upland pastures where it has passed the
     summer."--Turkey in Europe, by "Odysseus."

The remark was once made that the Eastern Question was destined to perplex mankind up to the
Day of Judgment. Certainly that problem is extraordinarily complex in its details. For a century
and a half it has distracted the statesmen and philanthropists of Europe; for it concerns not
only the ownership of lands of great intrinsic and strategic importance, but also the welfare
of many peoples. It is a question, therefore, which no intelligent man ought to overlook.

For the benefit of the tiresome person who insists on having a definition of every term, the
Eastern Question may be briefly described as the problem of finding a modus vivendi between
the Turks and their Christian subjects and the neighbouring States. This may serve as a general
working statement. No one who is acquainted with the rules of Logic will accept it as a definition.
Definitions can properly apply only to terms and facts that have a clear outline; and they
can therefore very rarely apply to the facts of history, which are of necessity as many-sided
as human life itself. The statement given above is incomplete, inasmuch as it neither hints
at the great difficulty of reconciling the civic ideas of Christian and Turkish peoples, nor
describes the political problems arising out of the decay of the Ottoman Power and the ambitions
of its neighbours.

It will be well briefly to see what are the difficulties that arise out of the presence of
Christians under the rule of a great Moslem State. They are chiefly these. First, the Koran,
though far from enjoining persecution of Christians, yet distinctly asserts the superiority
of the true believer and the inferiority of "the people of the book" (Christians). The latter
therefore are excluded from participation in public affairs, and in practice are refused a
hearing in the law courts. Consequently they tend to sink to the position of hewers of wood
and drawers of water to the Moslems, these on their side inevitably developing the defects
of an exclusive dominant caste. This is so especially with the Turks. They are one of the least
gifted of the Mongolian family of nations; brave in war and patient under suffering and reverses,
they nevertheless are hopelessly narrow-minded and bigoted; and the Christians in their midst
have fared perhaps worse than anywhere else among the Mohammedan peoples.

M. de Lavelaye, who studied the condition of things in Turkey not long after the war of 1877-78,
thus summed up the causes of the social and political decline of the Turks:--

The true Mussulman loves neither progress, novelty, nor education; the Koran is enough for
him. He is satisfied with his lot, therefore cares little for its improvement, somewhat like
a Catholic monk; but at the same time he hates and despises the Christian raya, who is the
labourer. He pitilessly despoils, fleeces, and ill-treats him to the extent of completely ruining
and destroying those families, which are the only ones who cultivate the ground; it was a state
of war continued in time of peace, and transformed into a regime of permanent spoliation and
murder. The wife, even when she is the only one, is always an inferior being, a kind of slave,
destitute of any intellectual culture; and as it is she who trains the children--boys and girls--the
bad results are plainly seen.

Matters were not always and in all parts of Turkey so bad as this; but they frequently became
so under cruel or corrupt governors, or in times when Moslem fanaticism ran riot. In truth,
the underlying cause of Turkey's troubles is the ignorance and fanaticism of her people. These
evils result largely from the utter absorption of all devout Moslems in their creed and ritual.
Texts from the Koran guide their conduct; and all else is decided by fatalism, which is very
often a mere excuse for doing nothing[86]. Consequently all movements for reform are mere ripples
on the surface of Turkish life; they never touch its dull depths; and the Sultan and officials,
knowing this, cling to the old ways with full confidence. The protests of Christian nations
on behalf of their co-religionists are therefore met with a polite compliance which means nothing.
Time after time the Sublime Porte has most solemnly promised to grant religious liberty to
its Christian subjects; but the promises were but empty air, and those who made them knew it.
In fact, the firmans of reform now and again issued with so much ostentation have never been
looked on by good Moslems as binding, because the chief spiritual functionary, the Sheikh-ul-Islam,
whose assent is needed to give validity to laws, has withheld it from those very ordinances.
As he has power to depose the Sultan for a lapse of orthodoxy, the result may be imagined.
The many attempts of the Christian Powers to enforce their notions of religious toleration
on the Porte have in the end merely led to further displays of Oriental politeness.

[Footnote 86: "Islam continues to be, as it has been for twelve centuries, the most inflexible
adversary to the Western spirit" (History of Serbia and the Slav Provinces of Turkey, by L.
von Ranke, Eng. edit. p. 296).]

It may be asked: Why have not the Christians of Turkey united in order to gain civic rights?
The answer is that they are profoundly divided in race and sentiment. In the north-east are
the Roumanians, a Romano-Slavonic race long ago Latinised in speech and habit of mind by contact
with Roman soldiers and settlers on the Lower Danube. South of that river there dwell the Bulgars,
who, strictly speaking, are not Slavs but Mongolians. After long sojourn on the Volga they
took to themselves the name of that river, lost their Tartar speech, and became Slav in sentiment
and language. This change took place before the ninth century, when they migrated to the south
and conquered the districts which they now inhabit. Their neighbours on the west, the Servians,
are Slavs in every sense, and look back with pride to the time of the great Servian Kingdom,
carved out by Stephen Dushan, which stretched southwards to the Ægean and the Gulf of Corinth
(about 1350).

To the west of the present Kingdom of Servia dwell other Servians and Slavs, who have been
partitioned and ground down by various conquerors and have kept fewer traditions than the Servians
who won their freedom. But from this statement we must except the Montenegrins, who in their
mountain fastnesses have ever defied the Turks. To the south of them is the large but little-known
Province of Albania, inhabited by the descendants of the ancient Illyrians, with admixtures
of Greeks in the south, Bulgarians in the east, and Servians in the north-east. Most of the
Albanians forsook Christianity and are among the most fanatical and warlike upholders of Islam;
but in their turbulent clan-life they often defy the authority of the Sultan, and uphold it
only in order to keep their supremacy over the hated and despised Greeks and Bulgars on their
outskirts. Last among the non-Turkish races of the Balkan Peninsula are a few Wallachs in Central
Macedonia, and Greeks; these last inhabit Thessaly and the seaboard of Macedonia and of part
of Roumelia. It is well said that Greek influence in the Balkans extends no further inland
than that of the sea breezes.

Such is the medley of races that complicates the Eastern Question. It may be said that Turkish
rule in Europe survives owing to the racial divisions and jealousies of the Christians. The
Sultan puts in force the old Roman motto, Divide et impera, and has hitherto done so, in the
main, with success. That is the reason why Islam dominates Christianity in the south-east of
Europe.

This brief explanation will show what are the evils that affect Turkey as a whole and her Christian
subjects in particular. They are due to the collision of two irreconcilable creeds and civilisations,
the Christian and the Mohammedan. Both of them are gifted with vitality and propagandist power
(witness the spread of the latter in Africa and Central Asia in our own day); and, while no
comparison can be made between them on ideal grounds and in their ethical and civic results,
it still remains true that Islam inspires its votaries with fanatical bravery in war. There
is the weakness of the Christians of south-eastern Europe. Superior in all that makes for home
life, civilisation, and civic excellence, they have in time past generally failed as soldiers
when pitted against an equal number of Moslems. But the latter show no constructive powers
in time of peace, and have very rarely assimilated the conquered races. Putting the matter
baldly, we may say that it is a question of the survival of the fittest between beavers and
bears. And in the Nineteenth Century the advantage has been increasingly with the former.

These facts will appear if we take a brief glance at the salient features of the European history
of Turkey. After capturing Constantinople, the capital of the old Eastern Empire, in the year
1453, the Turks for a time rapidly extended their power over the neighbouring Christian States,
Bulgaria, Servia, and Hungary. In the year 1683 they laid siege to Vienna; but after being
beaten back from that city by the valiant Sobieski, King of Poland, they gradually lost ground.
Little by little Hungary, Transylvania, the Crimea, and parts of the Ukraine (South Russia)
were wrenched from their grasp; and the close of the eighteenth century saw their frontiers
limited to the River Dniester and the Carpathians[87]. Further losses were staved off only
by the jealousies of the Great Powers. Joseph II. of Austria came near to effecting further
conquests, but his schemes of partition fell through amidst the wholesale collapse of his too
ambitious policy. Napoleon Bonaparte seized Egypt in 1798, but was forced by Great Britain
to give it back to Turkey (1801-2). In 1807-12 Alexander I. of Russia resumed the conquering
march of the Czars southward, captured Bessarabia, and forced the Sultan to grant certain privileges
to the Principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia. In 1815 the Servians revolted against Turkish
rule: they had always remembered the days of their early fame, and in 1817 wrested from the
Porte large rights of local self-government.

[Footnote 87: The story that Peter the Great of Russia left a clause in his will, bidding Russia
to go on with her southern conquests until she gained Constantinople, is an impudent fiction
of French publicists in the year 1812, when Napoleon wished to keep Russia and Turkey at war.
Of course, Peter the Great gave a mighty impulse to Russian movements towards Constantinople.]

Ten years later the intervention of England and France in favour of the Greek patriots led
to the battle of Navarino, which destroyed the Turco-Egyptian fleet and practically secured
the independence of Greece. An even worse blow was dealt by the Czar Nicholas I. of Russia.
In 1829, at the close of a war in which his troops drove the Turks over the Balkans and away
from Adrianople, he compelled the Porte to sign a peace at that city, whereby they acknowledged
the almost complete independence of Moldavia and Wallachia. These Danubian Principalities owned
the suzerainty of the Sultan and paid him a yearly tribute, but in other respects were practically
free from his control, while the Czar gained for the time the right of protecting the Christians
of the Eastern, or Greek, Church in the Ottoman Empire. The Sultan also recognised the independence
of Greece. Further troubles ensued which laid Turkey for a time at the feet of Russia. England
and France, however, intervened to raise her up; and they also thwarted the efforts of Mehemet
Ali, the rebellious Pacha of Egypt, to seize Syria from his nominal lord, the Sultan.

Even this bare summary will serve to illustrate three important facts: first, that Turkey never
consolidated her triumph over the neighbouring Christians, simply because she could not assimilate
them, alien as they were, in race, and in the enjoyment of a higher creed and civilisation;
second, that the Christians gained more and more support from kindred peoples (especially the
Russians) as these last developed their energies; third, that the liberating process was generally
(though not in 1827) delayed by the action of the Western Powers (England and France), which,
on grounds of policy, sought to stop the aggrandisement of Austria, or Russia, by supporting
the Sultan's authority.

The policy of supporting the Sultan against the aggression of Russia reached its climax in
the Crimean War (1854-55), which was due mainly to the efforts of the Czar Nicholas to extend
his protection over the Greek Christians in Turkey. France, England, and later on the Kingdom
of Sardinia made war on Russia--France, chiefly because her new ruler, Napoleon III., wished
to play a great part in the world, and avenge the disasters of the Moscow campaign of 1812;
England, because her Government and people resented the encroachments of Russia in the East,
and sincerely believed that Turkey was about to become a civilised State; and Sardinia, because
her statesman Cavour saw in this action a means of securing the alliance of the two western
States in his projected campaign against Austria. The war closed with the Treaty of Paris,
of 1856, whereby the signatory Powers formally admitted Turkey "to participate in the advantages
of the public law and system of Europe."

This, however, merely signified that the signatory Powers would resist encroachments on the
territorial integrity of Turkey. It did not limit the rights of the Powers, as specified in
various "Capitulations," to safeguard their own subjects residing in Turkey against Turkish
misrule. The Sultan raised great hopes by issuing a firman granting religious liberty to his
Christian subjects; this was inserted in the Treaty of Paris, and thereby became part of the
public law of Europe. The Powers also became collectively the guarantors of the local privileges
of the Danubian Principalities. Another article of the Treaty provided for the exclusion of
war-ships from the Black Sea. This of course applied specially to Russia and Turkey[88]. The
Sublime Porte was now placed in a stronger position than it had held since the year 1770; and
the due performance of its promises would probably have led to the building up of a strong
State. But the promises proved to be mere waste-paper. The Sultan, believing that England and
France would always take his part, let matters go on in the old bad way. The natural results
came to pass. The Christians showed increasing restiveness under Turkish rule. In 1860 numbers
of them were massacred in the Lebanon, and Napoleon III. occupied part of Syria with French
troops. The vassal States in Europe also displayed increasing vitality, while that of Turkey
waned. In 1861, largely owing to the diplomatic help of Napoleon III., Moldavia and Wallachia
united and formed the Principality of Roumania. In 1862, after a short but terrible struggle,
the Servians rid themselves of the Turkish garrisons and framed a constitution of the Western
type. But the worst blow came in 1870. During the course of the Franco-German War the Czar's
Government (with the good-will and perhaps the active connivance of the Court of Berlin) announced
that it would no longer be bound by the article of the Treaty of Paris excluding Russian war-ships
from the Black Sea. The Gladstone Ministry sent a protest against this act, but took no steps
to enforce its protest. Our young diplomatist, Sir Horace Rumbold, then at St. Petersburg,
believed that she would have drawn back at a threat of war[89]. Finally, the Russian declaration
was agreed to by the Powers in a Treaty signed at London on March 31, 1871.

[Footnote 89: Sir Horace Rumbold, Recollections of a Diplomatist (First Series), vol. ii. p. 295.]

These warnings were all thrown away on the Porte. Its promises of toleration to Christians
were ignored; the wheels of government clanked on in the traditional rusty way; governors of
provinces and districts continued, as of yore, to pocket the grants that were made for local
improvements; in defiance of the promises given in 1856, taxes continued to be "farmed" out
to contractors; the evidence of Christians against Moslems was persistently refused a hearing
in courts of justice[90]; and the collectors of taxes gave further turns of the financial screw
in order to wring from the cultivators, especially from the Christians, the means of satisfying
the needs of the State and the ever-increasing extravagance of the Sultan. Incidents which
were observed in Bosnia by an Oxford scholar of high repute, in the summer of 1875, will be
found quoted in an Appendix at the end of this volume.

[Footnote 90: As to this, see Reports: Condition of Christians in Turkey (1860). Presented
to Parliament in 1861. Also Parliamentary Papers, Turkey, No. 16 (1877).]

Matters came to a climax in the autumn of 1875 in Herzegovina, the southern part of Bosnia.
There after a bad harvest the farmers of taxes and the Mohammedan landlords insisted on having
their full quota; for many years the peasants had suffered under agrarian wrongs, which cannot
be described here; and now this long-suffering peasantry, mostly Christians, fled to the mountains,
or into Montenegro, whose sturdy mountaineers had never bent beneath the Turkish yoke[91].
Thence they made forays against their oppressors until the whole of that part of the Balkans
was aflame with the old religious and racial feuds. The Slavs of Servia, Bulgaria, and of Austrian
Dalmatia also gave secret aid to their kith and kin in the struggle against their Moslem overlords.
These peoples had been aroused by the sight of the triumph of the national cause in Italy,
and felt that the time had come to strike for freedom in the Balkans. Turkey therefore failed
to stamp out the revolt in Herzegovina, fed as it was by the neighbouring Slav peoples; and
it was clear to all the politicians of Europe that the Eastern Question was entering once more
on an acute phase.

[Footnote 91: Efforts were made by the British Consul, Holmes, and other pro-Turks, to assign
this revolt to Panslavonic intrigues. That there were some Slavonic emissaries at work is undeniable;
but it is equally certain that their efforts would have had no result but for the existence
of unbearable ills. It is time, surely, to give up the notion that peoples rise in revolt merely
owing to outside agitators. To revolt against the warlike Turks has never been child's play.]

These events aroused varied feelings in the European States. The Russian people, being in the
main of Slavonic descent, sympathised deeply with the struggles of their kith and kin, who
were rendered doubly dear by their membership in the Greek Church. The Panslavonic Movement,
for bringing the scattered branches of the Slav race into some form of political union, was
already gaining ground in Russia; but it found little favour with the St. Petersburg Government
owing to the revolutionary aims of its partisans. Sympathy with the revolt in the Balkans was
therefore confined to nationalist enthusiasts in the towns of Russia. Austria was still more
anxious to prevent the spread of the Balkan rising to the millions of her own Slavs. Accordingly,
the Austrian Chancellor, Count Andrassy, in concert with Prince Bismarck and the Russian statesman,
Prince Gortchakoff, began to prepare a scheme of reforms which was to be pressed on the Sultan
as a means of conciliating the insurgents of Herzegovina. They comprised (1) the improvement
of the lot of the peasantry; (2) complete religious liberty; (3) the abolition of the farming
of taxes; (4) the application of the local taxation to local needs; (5) the appointment of
a Commission, half of Moslems, half of Christians, to supervise the execution of these reforms
and of others recently promised by the Porte[92].

[Footnote 92: For the full text, see Hertslet, The Map of Europe by Treaty, iv. pp. 2418-2429.]

These proposals would probably have been sent to the Porte before the close of 1875 but for
the diplomatic intervention of the British Cabinet. Affairs at London were then in the hands
of that skilful and determined statesman, Disraeli, soon to become Lord Beaconsfield. It is
impossible to discuss fully the causes of that bias in his nature which prejudiced him against
supporting the Christians of Turkey. Those causes were due in part to the Semitic instincts
of his Jewish ancestry,--the Jews having consistently received better treatment from the Turks
than from the Russians,--and in part to his staunch Imperialism, which saw in Muscovite expansion
the chief danger to British communications with India. Mr. Bryce has recently pointed out in
a suggestive survey of Disraeli's character that tradition had great weight with him[93]. It
is known to have been a potent influence on the mind of Queen Victoria; and, as the traditional
policy at Whitehall was to support Turkey against Russia, all the personal leanings, which
count for so much, told in favour of a continuance in the old lines, even though the circumstances
had utterly changed since the time of the Crimean War.

[Footnote 93: Bryce, Studies in Contemporary Biography (1904).]

When, therefore, Disraeli became aware that pressure was about to be applied to the Porte by
the three Powers above named, he warned them that he considered any such action to be inopportune,
seeing that Turkey ought to be allowed time to carry out a programme of reforms of recent date.
By an iradé of October 2, 1875, the Sultan had promised to all his Christian subjects a remission
of taxation and the right of choosing not only the controllers of taxes, but also delegates
to supervise their rights at Constantinople.

In taking these promises seriously, Disraeli stood almost alone. But his speech of November
9, 1875, at the Lord Mayor's banquet, showed that he viewed the Eastern Question solely from
the standpoint of British interests. His acts spoke even more forcibly than his words. That
was the time when the dawn of Imperialism flushed all the eastern sky. H.R.H. the Prince of
Wales had just begun his Indian tour amidst splendid festivities at Bombay; and the repetition
of these in the native States undoubtedly did much to awaken interest in our Eastern Empire
and cement the loyalty of its Princes and peoples. Next, at the close of the month of November,
came the news that the British Government had bought the shares in the Suez Canal, previously
owned by the Khedive of Egypt, for the sum of £4,500,000[94]. The transaction is now acknowledged
by every thinking man to have been a master-stroke of policy, justified on all grounds, financial
and Imperial. In those days it met with sharp censure from Disraeli's opponents. In a sense
this was natural; for it seemed to be part of a scheme for securing British influence in the
Levant and riding roughshod over the susceptibilities of the French (the constructors of the
canal) and the plans of Russia. Everything pointed to the beginning of a period of spirited
foreign policy which would lead to war with Russia.

[Footnote 94: For details of this affair, see Chapter XV. of this work.]

Meanwhile the three Empires delayed the presentation of their scheme of reforms for Turkey,
and, as it would seem, out of deference to British representations. The troubles in Herzegovina
therefore went on unchecked through the winter, the insurgents refusing to pay any heed to
the Sultan's promises, even though these were extended by the iradé of December 12, offering
religious liberty and the institution of electoral bodies throughout the whole of European
Turkey. The statesmen of the Continent were equally sceptical as to the bona fides of these
offers, and on January 31, 1876, presented to the Porte their scheme of reforms already described.
Disraeli and our Foreign Minister, Lord Derby, gave a cold and guarded assent to the "Andrassy
Note," though they were known to regard it as "inopportune." To the surprise of the world,
the Porte accepted the Note on February 11, with one reservation.

This act of acceptance, however, failed to satisfy the insurgents. They decided to continue
the struggle. Their irreconcilable attitude doubtless arose from their knowledge of the worthlessness
of Turkish promises when not backed by pressure from the Powers; and it should be observed
that the "Note" gave no hint of any such pressure[95]. But it was also prompted by the hope
that Servia and Montenegro would soon draw the sword on their behalf--as indeed happened later
on. Those warlike peoples longed to join in the struggle against their ancestral foes; and
their rulers were nothing loth to do so. Servia was then ruled by Prince Milan (1868-89), of
that House of Obrenovitch which has been extinguished by the cowardly murders of June 1903
at Belgrade. He had recently married Nathalie Kechko, a noble Russian lady, whose connections
strengthened the hopes that he naturally entertained of armed Muscovite help in case of a war
with Turkey. Prince Nikita of Montenegro had married his second daughter to a Russian Grand
Duke, cousin of the Czar Alexander II., and therefore cherished the same hopes. It was clear
that unless energetic steps were taken by the Powers to stop the spread of the conflagration
it would soon wrap the whole of the Balkan Peninsula in flames. An outbreak of Moslem fanaticism
at Salonica (May 6), which led to the murder of the French and German Consuls at that port,
shed a lurid light on the whole situation and convinced the Continental Powers that sterner
measures must be adopted towards the Porte.

[Footnote 95: See Parliamentary Papers, Turkey, No. 5 (1877), for Consul Freeman's report of
March 17, 1877, of the outrages by the Turks in Bosnia. The refugees declared they would "sooner
drown themselves in the Unna than again subject themselves to Turkish oppression." The Porte
denied all the outrages.]

Such was the position, and such the considerations, that led the three Empires to adopt more
drastic proposals. Having found, meanwhile, by informal conferences with the Herzegovinian
leaders, what were the essentials to a lasting settlement, they prepared to embody them in
a second Note, the Berlin Memorandum, issued on May 13. It was drawn up by the three Imperial
Chancellors at Berlin, but Andrassy is known to have given a somewhat doubtful consent. T his
"Berlin Memorandum" demanded the adoption of an armistice for two months; the repatriation
of the Bosnian exiles and fugitives; the establishment of a mixed Commission for that purpose;
the removal of Turkish troops from the rural districts of Bosnia; the right of the Consuls
of the European Powers to see to the carrying out of all the promised reforms. Lastly, the
Memorandum stated that if within two months the three Imperial Courts did not attain the end
they had in view (viz. the carrying out of the needed reforms), it would become necessary to
take "efficacious measures" for that purpose[96]. Bismarck is known to have favoured the policy
of Gortchakoff in this affair.

[Footnote 96: Hertslet, iv. pp. 2459-2463.]

The proposals of the Memorandum were at once sent to the British, French, and Italian Governments
for their assent. The two last immediately gave it. After a brief delay the Disraeli Ministry
sent a decisive refusal and made no alternative proposal, though one of its members, Sir Stafford
Northcote, is known to have formulated a scheme[97]. The Cabinet took a still more serious
step: on May 24, it ordered the British fleet in the Mediterranean to steam to Besika Bay,
near the entrance to the Dardanelles--the very position it had taken before the Crimean War[98].
It is needless to say that this act not only broke up the "European Concert," but ended all
hopes of compelling Turkey at once to grant the much-needed reforms. That compulsion would
have been irresistible had the British fleet joined the Powers in preventing the landing of
troops from Asia Minor in the Balkan Peninsula. As it was, the Turks could draw those reinforcements
without hindrance.

[Footnote 97: Sir Stafford Northcote, Earl of Iddesleigh, by Andrew Lang, vol. ii. p. 181.]

[Footnote 98: Our ambassador at Constantinople, Sir Henry Elliott, asked (May 9) that a squadron
should be sent there to reassure the British subjects in Turkey; but as the fleet was not ordered
to proceed thither until after a long interval, and was kept there in great strength and for
many months, it is fair to assume that the aim of our Government was to encourage Turkey.]
The Berlin Memorandum was, of course, not presented to Turkey, and partly owing to the rapid
changes which then took place at Constantinople. To these we must now advert.

The Sultan, Abdul Aziz, during his fifteen years of rule had increasingly shown himself to
be apathetic, wasteful, and indifferent to the claims of duty. In the month of April, when
the State repudiated its debts, and officials and soldiers were left unpaid, his life of luxurious
retirement went on unchanged. It has been reckoned that of the total Turkish debt of £T200,000,000,
as much as £T53,000,000 was due to his private extravagance[99]. Discontent therefore became
rife, especially among the fanatical bands of theological students at Constantinople. These
Softas, as they are termed, numbering some 20,000 or more, determined to breathe new life into
the Porte--an aim which the patriotic "Young Turkey" party already had in view. On May 11 large
bands of Softas surrounded the buildings of the Grand Vizier and the Sheik-ul-Islam, and with
wild cries compelled them to give up their powers in favour of more determined men. On the
night of May 29-30 they struck at the Sultan himself. The new Ministers were on their side:
the Sheik-ul-Islam, the chief of the Ulemas, who interpret Mohammedan theology and law, now
gave sentence that the Sultan might be dethroned for mis-government; and this was done without
the least show of resistance. His nephew, Murad Effendi, was at once proclaimed Sultan as Murad
V.; a few days later the dethroned Sultan was secretly murdered, though possibly his death
may have been due to suicide[100].

[Footnote 99: Gallenga, The Eastern Question, vol. ii. p. 99.]

[Footnote 100: For the aims of the Young Turkey party, see the Life of Midhat Pasha, by his
son; also an article by Midhat in the Nineteenth Century for June 1878.]

We may add here that Murad soon showed himself to be a friend to reform; and this, rather than
any incapacity for ruling, was probably the cause of the second palace revolution, which led
to his deposition on August 31. Thereupon his brother, the present ruler, Abdul Hamid, ascended
the throne. His appearance was thus described by one who saw him at his first State progress
through his capital: "A somewhat heavy and stern countenance . . . narrow at the temples, with
a long gloomy cast of features, large ears, and dingy complexion. . . . It seemed to me the
countenance of a ruler capable of good or evil, but knowing his own mind and determined to
have his own way[101]." This forecast has been fulfilled in the most sinister manner.

[Footnote 101: Gallenga, The Eastern Question, vol. ii. p. 126. Murad died in the year 1904.]

If any persons believed in the official promise of June 1, that there should be "liberty for
all" in the Turkish dominions, they might have been undeceived by the events that had just
transpired to the south of the Balkan Mountains. The outbreak of Moslem fanaticism, which at
Constantinople led to the dethronement of two Sultans in order to place on the throne a stern
devotee, had already deluged with blood the Bulgarian districts near Philippopolis. In the
first days of May, the Christians of those parts, angered by the increase of misrule and fired
with hope by the example of the Herzegovinians, had been guilty of acts of insubordination;
and at Tatar Bazardjik a few Turkish officials were killed. The movement was of no importance,
as the Christians were nearly all unarmed. Nevertheless, the authorities poured into the disaffected
districts some 18,000 regulars, along with hordes of irregulars, or Bashi-Bazouks; and these,
especially the last, proceeded to glut their hatred and lust in a wild orgy which desolated
the whole region with a thoroughness that the Huns of Attila could scarcely have excelled (May
9-16). In the upper valley of the Maritza out of eighty villages, all but fifteen were practically
wiped out. Batak, a flourishing town of some 7000 inhabitants, underwent a systematic massacre,
culminating in the butchery of all who had taken refuge in the largest church; of the whole
population only 2000 managed to escape[102].

[Footnote 102: Mr. Baring, a secretary of the British Legation at Constantinople, after a careful
examination of the evidence, gave the number of Bulgarians slain as "not fewer than 12,000";
he opined that 163 Mussulmans were perhaps killed early in May. He admitted the Batak horrors.
Achmet Agha, their chief perpetrator, was at first condemned to death by a Turkish commission
of inquiry, but he was finally pardoned. Shefket Pasha, whose punishment was also promised,
was afterwards promoted to a high command. Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 2 (1877), pp. 248-249;
ibid. No. 15 (1877), No. 77, p. 58. Mr. Layard, successor to Sir Henry Elliott at Constantinople,
afterwards sought to reduce the numbers slain to 3500. Turkey, No. 26 (1877), p. 54.]

It is painful to have to add that the British Government was indirectly responsible for these
events. Not only had it let the Turks know that it deprecated the intervention of the European
Powers in Turkey (which was equivalent to giving the Turks carte blanche in dealing with their
Christian subjects), but on hearing of the Herzegovina revolt, it pressed on the Porte the
need of taking speedy measures to suppress them. The despatches of Sir Henry Elliott, our ambassador
at Constantinople, also show that he had favoured the use of active measures towards the disaffected
districts north of Philippopolis[103].

[Footnote 103: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 3 (1876), pp. 144, 173, 198-199.]

Of course, neither the British Government nor its ambassador foresaw the awful results of this
advice; but their knowledge of Turkish methods should have warned them against giving it without
adding the cautions so obviously needed. Sir Henry Elliott speedily protested against the measures
adopted by the Turks, but then it was too late[104]. Furthermore, the contemptuous way in which
Disraeli dismissed the first reports of the Bulgarian massacres as "coffee-house babble" revealed
his whole attitude of mind on Turkish affairs; and the painful impression aroused by this utterance
was increased by his declaration of July 30 that the British fleet then at Besika Bay was kept
there solely in defence of British interests. He made a similar but more general statement
in the House of Commons on August 11. On the next morning the world heard that Queen Victoria
had been pleased to confer on him the title of Earl of Beaconsfield. It is well known, on his
own admission, that he could no longer endure the strain of the late sittings in the House
of Commons and had besought Her Majesty for leave to retire. She, however, suggested the gracious
alternative that he should continue in office with a seat in the House of Lords. None the less,
the conferring of this honour was felt by very many to be singularly inopportune.

[Footnote 104: See, inter alia, his letter of May 26, 1876, quoted in Life and Correspondence
of William White (1902), pp. 99-100.]

For at this time tidings of the massacres at Batak and elsewhere began to be fully known. Despite
the efforts of Ministers to discredit them, they aroused growing excitement; and when the whole
truth was known, a storm of indignation swept over the country as over the whole of Europe.
Efforts were made by the Turcophil Press to represent the new trend of popular feeling as a
mere party move and an insidious attempt of the Liberal Opposition to exploit humanitarian
sentiment; but this charge will not bear examination. Mr. Gladstone had retired from the Liberal
Leadership early in 1875 and was deeply occupied in literary work; and Lords Granville and
Hartington, on whom devolved the duty of leading the Opposition, had been very sparing of criticisms
on the foreign policy of the Cabinet. They, as well as Mr. Gladstone, had merely stated that
the Government, on refusing to join in the Berlin Memorandum, ought to have formulated an alternative
policy. We now know that Mr. Gladstone left his literary work doubtfully and reluctantly[105].

[Footnote 105: J. Morley, Life of Gladstone, vol. ii. pp. 548-549.]

Now, however, the events in Bulgaria shed a ghastly light on the whole situation, and showed
the consequences of giving the "moral support" of Britain to the Turks. The whole question
ceased to rest on the high and dry levels of diplomacy, and became one of life or death for
many thousands of men and women. The conscience of the country was touched to the quick by
the thought that the presence of the British Mediterranean fleet at Besika Bay was giving the
same encouragement to the Turks as it had done before the Crimean War, and that, too, when
they had belied the promises so solemnly given in 1856, and were now proved to be guilty of
unspeakable barbarities. In such a case, the British nation would have been disgraced had it
not demanded that no further alliance should be formed. It was equally the duty of the leaders
of the Opposition to voice what was undoubtedly the national sentiment. To have kept silence
would have been to stultify our Parliamentary institutions. The parrot cry that British interests
were endangered by Russia's supposed designs on Turkey, was met by the unanswerable reply that,
if those designs existed, the best way to check them was to maintain the European Concert,
and especially to keep in close touch with Austria, seeing that that Power had as much cause
as England to dread any southward extension of the Czar's power. Russia might conceivably fight
Turkey and Great Britain; but she would not wage war against Austria as well. Therefore, the
dictates of humanity as well as those of common sense alike condemned the British policy, which
from the outset had encouraged the Turks to resist European intervention, had made us in some
measure responsible for the Bulgarian massacres, and, finally, had broken up the Concert of
the Powers, from which alone a peaceful solution of the Eastern Question could be expected.

The union of the Powers having been dissolved by British action, it was but natural that Russia
and Austria should come to a private understanding. This came about at Reichstadt in Bohemia
on July 8. No definitive treaty was signed, but the two Emperors and their Chancellors framed
an agreement defining their spheres of influence in the Balkans in case war should break out
between Russia and Turkey. Francis Joseph of Austria covenanted to observe a neutrality friendly
to the Czar under certain conditions that will be noticed later on. Some of those conditions
were distasteful to the Russian Government, which sounded Bismarck as to his attitude in case
war broke out between the Czar and the Hapsburg ruler. Apparently the reply of the German Chancellor
was unfavourable to Russia[106], for it thereafter renewed the negotiations with the Court
of Vienna. On the whole, the ensuing agreement was a great diplomatic triumph; for the Czar
thereby secured the neutrality of Austria--a Power that might readily have remained in close
touch with Great Britain had British diplomacy displayed more foresight.

[Footnote 106: Bismarck, Reflections and Reminiscences vol. ii. chap, xxviii.]

The prospects of a great war, meanwhile, had increased owing to the action of Servia and Montenegro.
The rulers of those States, unable any longer to hold in their peoples, and hoping for support
from their Muscovite kinsfolk, declared war on Turkey at the end of June. Russian volunteers
thronged to the Servian forces by thousands; but, despite the leadership of the Russian General,
Tchernayeff, they were soon overborne by the numbers and fanatical valour of the Turks. Early
in September, Servia appealed to the Powers for their mediation; and, owing chiefly to the
efforts of Great Britain, terms for an armistice were proposed by the new Sultan, Abdul Hamid,
but of so hard a nature that the Servians rejected them.

On the fortune of war still inclining against the Slavonic cause, the Russian people became
intensely excited; and it was clear that they would speedily join in the war unless the Turks
moderated their claims. There is reason to believe that the Czar Alexander II. dreaded the
outbreak of hostilities with Turkey in which he might become embroiled with Great Britain.
The Panslavonic party in Russia was then permeated by revolutionary elements that might threaten
the stability of the dynasty at the end of a long and exhausting struggle. But, feeling himself
in honour bound to rescue Servia and Montenegro from the results of their ill-judged enterprise,
he assembled large forces in South Russia and sent General Ignatieff to Constantinople with
the demand, urged in the most imperious manner (Oct. 30), that the Porte should immediately
grant an armistice to those States. At once Abdul Hamid gave way.

Even so, Alexander II. showed every desire of averting the horrors of war. Speaking to the
British ambassador at St. Petersburg on November 2, he said that the present state of affairs
in Turkey "was intolerable, and unless Europe was prepared to act with firmness and energy,
he should be obliged to act alone." But he pledged his word that he desired no aggrandisement,
and that "he had not the smallest wish or intention to be possessed of Constantinople[107]."
At this time proposals for a Conference of the Powers at Constantinople were being mooted:
they had been put forth by the British Government on October 5. There seemed, therefore, to
be some hope of a compromise if the Powers reunited so as to bring pressure to bear on Turkey;
for, a week later, the Sultan announced his intention of granting a constitution, with an elected
Assembly to supervise the administration. But hopes of peace as well as of effective reform
in Turkey were damped by the warlike speech of Lord Beaconsfield at the Lord Mayor's banquet
on November 9. He then used these words. If Britain draws the sword "in a righteous cause;
if the contest is one which concerns her liberty, her independence, or her Empire, her resources,
I feel, are inexhaustible. She is not a country that, when she enters into a campaign, has
to ask herself whether she can support a second or a third campaign." On the next day the Czar
replied in a speech at Moscow to the effect that if the forthcoming Conference at Constantinople
did not lead to practical results, Russia would be forced to take up arms; and he counted on
the support of his people. A week later 160,000 Russian troops were mobilised.

[Footnote 107: Hertslet, iv. p. 2508.]

The issue was thus clear as far as concerned Russia. It was not so clear for Great Britain.
Even now, we are in ignorance as to the real intent of Lord Beaconsfield's speech at the Guildhall.
It seems probable that, as there were divisions in his Cabinet, he may have wished to bring
about such a demonstration of public feeling as would strengthen his hands in proposing naval
and military preparations. The duties of a Prime Minister are so complex that his words may
be viewed either in an international sense, or as prompted by administrative needs, or by his
relations to his colleagues, or, again, they may be due merely to electioneering considerations.
Whatever their real intent on this occasion, they were interpreted by Russia as a defiance
and by Turkey as a promise of armed help.

On the other hand, if Lord Beaconsfield hoped to strengthen the pro-Turkish feeling in the
Cabinet and the country, he failed. The resentment aroused by Turkish methods of rule and repression
was too deep to be eradicated even by his skilful appeals to Imperialist sentiment. The Bulgarian
atrocities had at least brought this much of good: they rendered a Turco-British alliance absolutely
impossible.

Lord Derby had written to this effect on August 29 to Sir Henry Elliott: "The impression produced
here by events in Bulgaria has completely destroyed sympathy with Turkey. The feeling is universal
and so strong that even if Russia were to declare war against the Porte, Her Majesty's Government
would find it practically impossible to interfere[108]."

[Footnote 108: Parliamentary Papers, Turkey, No. 6 (1877).]

The assembly of a Conference of the envoys of the Powers at Constantinople was claimed to be
a decisive triumph for British diplomacy. There were indeed some grounds for hoping that Turkey
would give way before a reunited Europe. The pressure brought to bear on the British Cabinet
by public opinion resulted in instructions being given to Lord Salisbury (our representative,
along with Sir H. Elliott, at the Conference) which did not differ much from the avowed aims
of Russia and of the other Powers. Those instructions stated that the Powers could not accept
mere promises of reform, for "the whole history of the Ottoman Empire, since it was admitted
into the European Concert under the engagements of the Treaty of Paris [1856], has proved that
the Porte is unable to guarantee the execution of reforms in the provinces by Turkish officials,
who accept them with reluctance and neglect them with impunity." The Cabinet, therefore, insisted
that there must be "external guarantees," but stipulated that no foreign armies must be introduced
into Turkey[109]. Here alone British Ministers were at variance with the other Powers; and
when, in the preliminary meetings of the Conference, a proposal was made to bring Belgian troops
in order to guarantee the thorough execution of the proposed reforms, Lord Salisbury did not
oppose it. In pursuance of instructions from London, he even warned the Porte that Britain
would not give any help in case war resulted from its refusal of the European proposals.

[Footnote 109: Parliamentary Papers, Turkey, ii. (1877), No. 1; also, in part, in Hertslet,
iv. p. 2517.]

It is well known that Lord Salisbury was far less pro-Turkish than the Prime Minister or the
members of the British embassy at Constantinople. During a diplomatic tour that he had made
to the chief capitals he convinced himself "that no Power was disposed to shield Turkey--not
even Austria--if blood had to be shed for the status quo." (The words are those used by his
assistant, Mr., afterwards Sir, William White.) He had had little or no difficulty in coming
to an understanding with the Russian plenipotentiary, General Ignatieff, despite the intrigues
of Sir Henry Elliott and his Staff to hinder it[110]. Indeed, the situation shows what might
have been effected in May 1876, had not the Turks then received the support of the British
Government.

[Footnote 110: Sir William White: Life and Correspondence, p. 117.]

Now, however, there were signs that the Turks declined to take the good advice of the Powers
seriously; and on December 23, when the "full" meetings of the Conference began, the Sultan
and his Ministers treated the plenipotentiaries to a display of injured virtue and reforming
zeal that raised the situation to the level of the choicest comedy. In the midst of the proceedings,
after the Turkish Foreign Minister, Safvet Pacha, had explained away the Bulgarian massacres
as a myth woven by the Western imagination, salvoes of cannon were heard, that proclaimed the
birth of a new and most democratic constitution for the whole of the Turkish Empire. Safvet
did justice to the solemnity of the occasion; the envoys of the Powers suppressed their laughter;
and before long, Lord Salisbury showed his resentment at this display of oriental irony and
stubbornness by ordering the British Fleet to withdraw from Besika Bay[111].

[Footnote 111: See Gallenga (The Eastern Question, vol. ii. pp. 255-258) as to the scepticism
regarding the new constitution, felt alike by foreigners and natives at Constantinople.]

But deeds and words were alike wasted on the Sultan and his Ministers. To all the proposals
and warnings of the Powers they replied by pointing to the superior benefits about to be conferred
by the new constitution. The Conference therefore speedily came to an end (Jan. 20). It had
served its purpose. It had fooled Europe[112].

[Footnote 112: See Parl. Papers (1878), Turkey, No. 2, p. 114, for the constitution; and p.
302 for Lord Salisbury's criticisms on it; also ibid, pp. 344-345, for Turkey's final rejection
of the proposals of the Powers.]

The responsibility for this act of cynical defiance must be assigned to one man. The Sultan
had never before manifested a desire for any reform whatsoever; and it was not until December
19, 1876, that he named as Grand Vizier Midhat Pasha, who was known to have long been weaving
constitutional schemes. This Turkish Siéyès was thrust to the front in time to promulgate that
fundamental reform. His tenure of power, like that of the French constitution-monger in 1799,
ended when the scheme had served the purpose of the real controller of events. Midhat obviously
did not see whither things were tending. On January 24, 1877, he wrote to Saïd Pasha, stating
that, according to the Turkish ambassador at London (Musurus Pasha), Lord Derby congratulated
the Sublime Porte on the dissolution of the Conference, "which he considers a success for Turkey[113]."

[Footnote 113: Life of Midhat Pasha, by Midhat Ali (1903), p. 142. Musurus must have deliberately
misrepresented Lord Derby.]

It therefore only remained to set the constitution in motion. After six days, when no sign
of action was forthcoming, Midhat wrote to the Sultan in urgent terms, reminding him that their
object in promulgating the constitution "was certainly not merely to find a solution of the
so-called Eastern Question, nor to seek thereby to make a demonstration that should conciliate
the sympathies of Europe, which had been estranged from us." This Note seems to have irritated
the Sultan. Abdul Hamid, with his small, nervous, exacting nature, has always valued Ministers
in proportion to their obedience, not to their power of giving timely advice. In every independent
suggestion he sees the germ of opposition, and perhaps of a palace plot. He did so now. By
way of reply, he bade Midhat come to the Palace. Midhat, fearing a trap, deferred his visit,
until he received the assurance that the order for the reforms had been issued. Then he obeyed
the summons; at once he was apprehended, and was hurried to the Sultan's yacht, which forthwith
steamed away for the Aegean (Feb. 5). The fact that he remained above its waters, and was allowed
to proceed to Italy, may be taken as proof that his zeal for reform had been not without its
uses in the game which the Sultan had played against the Powers. The Turkish Parliament, which
assembled on March 1, acted with the subservience that might have been expected after this
lesson. The Sultan dissolved it on the outbreak of war, and thereafter gave up all pretence
of constitutional forms. As for Midhat, he was finally lured back to Turkey and done to death.
Such was the end of the Turkish constitution, of the Turkish Parliament, and of their contriver[114].

[Footnote 114: Life of Midhat Pasha, chaps. v.-vii. For the Sultan's character and habits,
see an article in the Contemporary Review for December 1896, by D. Kelekian.]

Even the dissolution of the Conference of the Powers did not bring about war at once. It seems
probable that the Czar hoped much from the statesmanlike conduct of Lord Salisbury at Constantinople,
or perhaps he expected to secure the carrying out of the needed reforms by means of pressure
from the Three Emperors' League (see Chapter XII.). But, unless the Russians gave up all interest
in the fate of her kinsmen and co-religionists in Turkey, war was now the more probable outcome
of events. Alexander had already applied to Germany for help, either diplomatic or military;
but these overtures, of whatever kind, were declined by Bismarck--so he declared in his great
speech of February 6, 1888. Accordingly, the Czar drew closer to Austria, with the result that
the Reichstadt agreement of July 8, 1876, now assumed the form of a definitive treaty signed
at Vienna between the two Powers on January 15, 1877.

The full truth on this subject is not known. M. Élie de Cyon, who claims to have seen the document,
states that Austria undertook to remain neutral during the Russo-Turkish War, that she stipulated
for a large addition of territory if the Turks were forced to quit Europe; also that a great
Bulgaria should be formed, and that Servia and Montenegro should be extended so as to become
conterminous. To the present writer this account appears suspect. It is inconceivable that
Austria should have assented to an expansion of these principalities which would bar her road
southward to Salonica[115].

[Footnote 115: Élie de Cyon, Histoire de l'Entente franco-russe, chap, i.; and in Nouvelle
Revue for June 1, 1887. His account bears obvious signs of malice against Germany and Austria.]

Another and more probable version was given by the Hungarian Minister, M. Tisza, during the
course of debates in the Hungarian Delegations in the spring of 1887, to this effect:--(1)
No Power should claim an exclusive right of protecting the Christians of Turkey, and the Great
Powers should pronounce on the results of the war; (2) Russia would annex no land on the right
(south) bank of the Danube, would respect the integrity of Roumania, and refrain from touching
Constantinople; (3) if Russia formed a new Slavonic State in the Balkans, it should not be
at the expense of non-Slavonic peoples; and she would not claim special rights over Bulgaria,
which was to be governed by a prince who was neither Russian nor Austrian; (4) Russia would
not extend her military operations to the districts west of Bulgaria. These were the terms
on which Austria agreed to remain neutral; and in certain cases she claimed to occupy Bosnia
and Herzegovina[116].

[Footnote 116: Débidour, Hist. diplomatique de l'Europe (1814-1878), vol. ii. p. 502.] Doubtless
these, or indeed any, concessions to Austria were repugnant to Alexander II. and Prince Gortchakoff;
but her neutrality was essential to Russia's success in case war broke out; and the Czar's
Government certainly acted with much skill in securing the friendly neutrality of the Power
which in 1854 had exerted so paralysing a pressure on the Russian operations on the Lower Danube.

Nevertheless, Alexander II. still sought to maintain the European Concert with a view to the
exerting of pacific pressure upon Turkey. Early in March he despatched General Ignatieff on
a mission to the capitals of the Great Powers; except at Westminster, that envoy found opinion
favourable to the adoption of some form of coercion against Turkey, in case the Sultan still
hardened his heart against good advice. Even the Beaconsfield Ministry finally agreed to sign
a Protocol, that of March 31, 1877, which recounted the efforts of the six Great Powers for
the improvement of the lot of the Christians in Turkey, and expressed their approval of the
promises of reform made by that State on February 13, 1876. Passing over without notice the
new Turkish Constitution, the Powers declared that they would carefully watch the carrying
out of the promised reforms, and that, if no improvement in the lot of the Christians should
take place, "they [the Powers] reserve to themselves to consider in common as to the means
which they may deem best fitted to secure the wellbeing of the Christian populations, and the
interests of the general peace[117]." This final clause contained a suggestion scarcely less
threatening than that with which the Berlin Memorandum had closed; and it is difficult to see
why the British Cabinet, which now signed the London Protocol, should have wrecked that earlier
effort of the Powers. In this as in other matters it is clear that the Cabinet was swayed by
a "dual control."

[Footnote 117: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 9 (1877), p. 2.]

But now it was all one whether the British Government signed the Protocol or not. Turkey would
have none of it. Despite Lord Derby's warning that "the Sultan would be very unwise if he would
not endeavour to avail himself of the opportunity afforded him to arrange a mutual disarmament,"
that potentate refused to move a hair's-breadth from his former position. On the 12th of April
the Turkish ambassador announced to Lord Derby the final decision of his Government: "Turkey,
as an independent State, cannot submit to be placed under any surveillance, whether collective
or not. . . . No consideration can arrest the Imperial Government in their determination to
protest against the Protocol of the 31st March, and to consider it, as regards Turkey, as devoid
of all equity, and consequently of all binding character." Lord Derby thereupon expressed his
deep regret at this decision, and declared that he "did not see what further steps Her Majesty's
Government could take to avert a war which appeared to have become inevitable[118]."

[Footnote 118: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 15 (1877), pp. 354-355.]

The Russian Government took the same view of the case, and on April 7-19, 1877, stated in a
despatch that, as a pacific solution of the Eastern Question was now impossible, the Czar had
ordered his armies to cross the frontiers of Turkey. The official declaration of war followed
on April 12-24. From the point of view of Lord Derby this seemed "inevitable." Nevertheless,
on May 1 he put his name to an official document which reveals the curious dualism which then
prevailed in the Beaconsfield Cabinet. This reply to the Russian despatch contained the assertion
that the last answer of the Porte did not remove all hope of deference on its part to the wishes
and advice of Europe, and "that the decision of the Russian Government is not one which can
have their concurrence or approval." We shall not be far wrong in assuming that, while the
hand that signed this document was the hand of Derby, the spirit behind it was that of Beaconsfield.

In many quarters the action of Russia was stigmatised as the outcome of ambition and greed,
rendered all the more odious by the cloak of philanthropy which she had hitherto worn. The
time has not come when an exhaustive and decisive verdict can be given on this charge. Few
movements have been free from all taint of meanness; but it is clearly unjust to rail against
a great Power, because, at the end of a war which entailed frightful losses and a serious though
temporary loss of prestige, it determined to exact from the enemy the only form of indemnity
which was forthcoming, namely, a territorial indemnity. Russia's final claims, as will be seen,
were open to criticism at several points; but the censure just referred to is puerile. It accords,
however, with most of the criticisms passed in London "club-land," which were remarkable for
their purblind cynicism.

No one who has studied the mass of correspondence contained in the Blue-books relating to Turkey
in 1875-77 can doubt that the Emperor Alexander II. displayed marvellous patience in face of
a series of brutal provocations by Moslem fanatics and the clamour of his own people for a
liberating crusade. Bismarck, who did not like the Czar, stated that he did not want war, but
waged it "under stress of Panslavist influence[119]." That some of his Ministers and Generals
had less lofty aims is doubtless true; but practically all authorities are now agreed that
the maintenance of the European Concert would have been the best means of curbing those aims.
Yet, despite the irritating conduct of the Beaconsfield Cabinet, the Emperor Alexander sought
to re-unite Europe with a view to the execution of the needed reforms in Turkey. Even after
the successive rebuffs of the rejection of the Berlin Memorandum by Great Britain and of the
suggestions of the Powers at Constantinople by Turkey, he succeeded in restoring the semblance
of accord between the Powers, and of leaving to Turkey the responsibility of finally and insolently
defying their recommendations. A more complete diplomatic triumph has rarely been won. It was
the reward of consistency and patience, qualities in which the Beaconsfield Cabinet was signally
lacking.

[Footnote 119: Bismarck: his Reflections and Reminiscences, vol. ii. p. 259 (Eng. ed.).] We
may notice one other criticism: that Russia's agreement with Austria implied the pre-existence
of aggressive designs. This is by no means conclusive. That the Czar should have taken the
precaution of coming to the arrangement of January 1877 with Austria does not prove that he
was desirous of war. The attitude of Turkey during the Conference at Constantinople left but
the slightest hope of peace. To prepare for war in such a case is not a proof of a desire for
war, but only of common prudence.

Certain writers in France and Germany have declared that Bismarck was the real author of the
Russo-Turkish War. The dogmatism of their assertions is in signal contrast with the thinness
of their evidence[120]. It rests mainly on the statement that the Three Emperors' League (see
Chapter XII.) was still in force; that Bismarck had come to some arrangement for securing gains
to Austria in the south-east as a set-off to her losses in 1859 and 1866; that Austrian agents
in Dalmatia had stirred up the Herzegovina revolt of 1875; and that Bismarck and Andrassy did
nothing to avert the war of 1877. Possibly he had a hand in these events--he had in most events
of the time; and there is a suspicious passage in his Memoirs as to the overtures made to Berlin
in the autumn of 1876. The Czar's Ministers wished to know whether, in the event of a war with
Austria, they would have the support of Germany. To this the Chancellor replied, that Germany
could not allow the present equilibrium of the monarchical Powers to be disturbed: "The result
. . . was that the Russian storm passed from Eastern Galicia to the Balkans[121]." Thereafter
Russia came to terms with Austria as described above.

[Footnote 120: Élie de Cyon, op. cit. chap. i.; also in Nouvelle Revue for 1880.]

[Footnote 121: Bismarck, Recollections and Reminiscences, vol. ii. p. 231 (Eng. ed.).]

But the passage just cited only proves that Russia might have gone to war with Austria over
the Eastern Question. In point of fact, she went to war with Turkey, after coming to a friendly
arrangement with Austria. Bismarck therefore acted as "honest-broker" between his two allies;
and it has yet to be proved that Bismarck did not sincerely work with the two other Empires
to make the coercion of Turkey by the civilised Powers irresistibly strong. In his speech of
December 6, 1876, to the Reichstag, the Chancellor made a plain and straightforward declaration
of his policy, namely, that of neutrality, but inclining towards friendship with Austria. That,
surely, did not drive Russia into war with Turkey, still less entice her into it. As for the
statement that Austrian intrigues were the sole cause of the Bosnian revolt, it must appear
childish to all who bear in mind the exceptional hardships and grievances of the peasants of
that province. Finally, the assertion of a newspaper, the Czas, that Queen Victoria wrote to
Bismarck in April 1877 urging him to protest against an attack by Russia on Turkey, may be
dismissed as an impudent fabrication[122]. It was altogether opposed to the habits of her late
Majesty to write letters of that kind to the Foreign Ministers of other Powers.

[Footnote 122: Busch, Our Chancellor, vol. ii. p. 126.]

Until documents of a contrary tenor come to light, we may say with some approach to certainty
that the responsibility for the war of 1877-78 rests with the Sultan of Turkey and with those
who indirectly encouraged him to set at naught the counsels of the Powers. Lord Derby and Lord
Salisbury had of late plainly warned him of the consequences of his stubbornness; but the influence
of the British embassy at Constantinople and of the Turkish ambassador in London seems greatly
to have weakened the force of those warnings.

It must always be remembered that the Turk will concede religious freedom and civic equality
to the "Giaours" only under overwhelming pressure. In such a case he mutters "Kismet" ("It
is fate"), and gives way; but the least sign of weakness or wavering on the part of the Powers
awakens his fanatical scruples. Then his devotion to the Koran forbids any surrender. History
has afforded several proofs of this, from the time of the Battle of Navarino (1827) to that
of the intervention of the Western Powers on behalf of the slaughtered and harried Christians
of the Lebanon (1860). Unfortunately Abdul Hamid had now come to regard the Concert of the
Powers as a "loud-sounding nothing." With the usual bent of a mean and narrow nature he detected
nothing but hypocrisy in its lofty professions, and self-seeking in its philanthropic aims,
together with a treacherous desire among influential persons to make the whole scheme miscarry.
Accordingly he fell back on the boundless fund of inertia, with which a devout Moslem ruler
blocks the way to western reforms. A competent observer has finely remarked that the Turk never
changes; his neighbours, his frontiers, his statute-books may change, but his ideas and his
practice remain always the same. He will not be interfered with; he will not improve[123].
To this statement we must add that only under dire necessity will he allow his Christian subjects
to improve. The history of the Eastern Question may be summed up in these assertions.

[Footnote 123: Turkey in Europe, by Odysseus, p. 139.]

Abdul Hamid II. is the incarnation of the reactionary forces which have brought ruin to Turkey
and misery to her Christian subjects. He owed his crown to a recrudescence of Moslem fanaticism;
and his reign has illustrated the unsuspected strength and ferocity of his race and creed in
face of the uncertain tones in which Christendom has spoken since the spring of the year 1876.
The reasons which prompted his defiance a year later were revealed by his former Grand Vizier,
Midhat Pasha, in an article in the Nineteenth Century for June 1877. The following passage
is especially illuminating:--

     Turkey was not unaware of the attitude of the English
     Government towards her; the British Cabinet had declared in
     clear terms that it would not interfere in our dispute. This
     decision of the English Cabinet was perfectly well known to
     us, but we knew still better that the general interests of
     Europe and the particular interests of England were so bound
     up in our dispute with Russia that, in spite of all the
     Declarations of the English Cabinet, it appeared to us to be
     absolutely impossible for her to avoid interfering sooner or
     later in this Eastern dispute. This profound belief, added to
     the reasons we have mentioned, was one of the principal
     factors of our contest with Russia[124].

[Footnote 124: See, too, the official report of our pro-Turkish Ambassador at Constantinople,
Mr. Layard (May 30, 1877), as to the difficulty of our keeping out of the war in its final
stages (Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 26 (1877), p. 52).]

It appears, then, that the action of the British Government in the spring and summer of 1876,
and the well-known desire of the Prime Minister to intervene in favour of Turkey, must have
contributed to the Sultan's decision to court the risks of war rather than allow any intervention
of the Powers on behalf of his Christian subjects.

The information that has come to light from various quarters serves to strengthen the case
against Lord Beaconsfield's policy in the years 1875-77. The letter written by Mr. White to
Sir Robert Morier on January 16, 1877, and referred to above, shows that his diplomatic experience
had convinced him of the futility of supporting Turkey against the Powers. In that letter he
made use of these significant words:--"You know me well enough. I did not come here (Constantinople)
to deceive Lord Salisbury or to defend an untenable Russophobe or pro-Turkish policy. There
will probably be a difference of opinion in the Cabinet as to our future line of policy, and
I shall not wonder if Lord Salisbury should upset Dizzy and take his place or leave the Government
on this question. If he does the latter, the coach is indeed upset." Mr. White also referred
to the personnel of the British Embassy at Constantinople in terms which show how mischievous
must have been its influence on the counsels of the Porte.

A letter from Sir Robert Morier of about the same date proves that that experienced diplomatist
also saw the evil results certain to accrue from the Beaconsfield policy:--"I have not ceased
to din that into the ears of the F.O. (Foreign Office), to make ourselves the point d'appui
of the Christians in the Turkish Empire, and thus take all the wind out of the sails of Russia;
and after the population had seen the difference between an English and a Russian occupation
[of the disturbed parts of Turkey] it would jump to the eyes even of the blind, and we should
débuter into a new policy at Constantinople with an immense advantage[125]." This advice was
surely statesmanlike. To support the young and growing nationalities in Turkey would serve,
not only to checkmate the supposed aggressive designs of Russia, but also to array on the side
of Britain the progressive forces of the East. To rely on the Turk was to rely on a moribund
creature. It was even worse. It implied an indirect encouragement to the "sick man" to enter
on a strife for which he was manifestly unequal, and in which we did not mean to help him.
But these considerations failed to move Lord Beaconsfield and the Foreign Office from the paths
of tradition and routine[126].

[Footnote 125: Sir William White: Life and Correspondence, pp. 115-117.]

[Footnote 126: For the power of tradition in the Foreign Office, see Sir William White: Life
and Correspondence, p. 119.]

Finally, in looking at the events of 1875-76 in their broad outlines, we may note the verdict
of a veteran diplomatist, whose conduct before the Crimean War proved him to be as friendly
to the interests of Turkey as he was hostile to those of Russia, but who now saw that the situation
differed utterly from that which was brought about by the aggressive action of Czar Nicholas
I. in 1854. In a series of letters to the Times he pointed out the supreme need of joint action
by all the Powers who signed the Treaty of Paris; that that treaty by no means prohibited their
intervention in the affairs of Turkey; that wise and timely intervention would be to the advantage
of that State; that the Turks had always yielded to coercion if it were of overwhelming strength,
but only on those terms; and that therefore the severance of England from the European Concert
was greatly to be deplored[127]. In private this former champion of Turkey went even farther,
and declared on Sept. 10, 1876, that the crisis in the East would not have become acute had
Great Britain acted conjointly with the Powers[128]. There is every reason to believe that
posterity will endorse this judgment of Lord Stratford de Redcliffe.

[Footnote 127: Letters of Dec. 31, 1875, May 16, 1876, and Sept. 9, 1876, republished with
others in The Eastern Question, by Lord Stratford de Redcliffe (1881).]

[Footnote 128: J. Morley, Life of Gladstone, vol. ii. p. 555.]

CHAPTER VIII

THE RUSSO-TURKISH WAR

     "Knowledge of the great operations of war can be acquired
     only by experience and by the applied study of the campaigns
     of all the great captains. Gustavus, Turenne, and Frederick,
     as well as Alexander, Hannibal, and Cæsar, have all acted on
     the same principles. To keep one's forces together, to bear
     speedily on any point, to be nowhere vulnerable,--such are
     the principles that assure victory."--NAPOLEON.

Despite the menace to Russia contained in the British Note of May 1, 1877, there was at present
little risk of a collision between the two Powers for the causes already stated. The Government
of the Czar showed that it desired to keep on friendly terms with the Cabinet of St. James,
for, in reply to a statement of Lord Derby that the security of Constantinople, Egypt, and
the Suez Canal was a matter of vital concern for Great Britain, the Russian Chancellor, Prince
Gortchakoff, on May 30 sent the satisfactory assurance that the two latter would remain outside
the sphere of military operations; that the acquisition of the Turkish capital was "excluded
from the views of His Majesty the Emperor," and that its future was a question of common interest
which could be settled only by a general understanding among the Powers[129]. As long as Russia
adhered to these promises there could scarcely be any question of Great Britain intervening
on behalf of Turkey.

[Footnote 129: Hertslet, vol. iv. p. 2625.]

Thus the general situation in the spring of 1877 scarcely seemed to warrant the hopes with
which the Turks entered on the war. They stood alone confronting a Power which had vastly greater
resources in men and treasure. Seeing that the Sultan had recently repudiated a large part
of the State debt, and could borrow only at exorbitant rates of interest, it is even now mysterious
how his Ministers managed to equip very considerable forces, and to arm them with quick-firing
rifles and excellent cannon. The Turk is a born soldier, and will fight for nothing and live
on next to nothing when his creed is in question; but that does not solve the problem how the
Porte could buy huge stores of arms and ammunition. It had procured 300,000 American rifles,
and bought 200,000 more early in the war. On this topic we must take refuge in the domain of
legend, and say that the life of Turkey is the life of a phoenix: it now and again rises up
fresh and defiant among the flames.

As regards the Ottoman army, an English officer in its service, Lieutenant W.V. Herbert, states
that the artillery was very good, despite the poor supply of horses; that the infantry was
very good; the regular cavalry mediocre, the irregular cavalry useless. He estimates the total
forces in Europe and Asia at 700,000; but, as he admits that the battalions of 800 men rarely
averaged more than 600, that total is clearly fallacious. An American authority believes that
Turkey had not more than 250,000 men ready in Europe and that of these not more than 165,000
were north of the Balkans when the Russians advanced towards the Danube[130]. Von Lignitz credits
the Turks with only 215,000 regular troops and 100,000 irregulars (Bashi Bazouks and Circassians)
in the whole Empire; of these he assigns two-thirds to European Turkey[131].

[Footnote 130: The Campaign in Bulgaria, by F.V. Greene, pt. ii. ch. i.; W.V. Herbert, The
Defence of Plevna, chaps, i.-ii.]

[Footnote 131: Aus drei Kriegen, by Gen. von Lignitz, p. 99.]

It seemed, then, that Russia had no very formidable task before her. Early in May seven army
corps began to move towards that great river. They included 180 battalions of infantry, 200
squadrons of cavalry, and 800 guns--in all about 200,000 men. Their cannon were inferior to
those of the Turks, but this seemed a small matter in view of the superior numbers which Russia
seemed about to place in the field. The mobilisation of her huge army, however, went on slowly,
and produced by no means the numbers that were officially reported. Our military attaché at
the Russian headquarters, Colonel Wellesley, reported this fact to the British Government;
and, on this being found out, incurred disagreeable slights from the Russian authorities[132].

[Footnote 132: With the Russians in War and Peace, by Colonel F.A. Wellesley (1905), ch. xvii.]

Meanwhile Russia had secured the co-operation of Roumania by a convention signed on April 16,
whereby the latter State granted a free passage through that Principality, and promised friendly
treatment to the Muscovite troops. The Czar in return pledged himself to "maintain and defend
the actual integrity of Roumania[133]." The sequel will show how this promise was fulfilled.
For the present it seemed that the interests of the Principality were fully secured. Accordingly
Prince Charles (elder brother of the Prince Leopold of Hohenzollern, whose candidature for
the Crown of Spain made so much stir in 1870) took the further step of abrogating the suzerainty
of the Sultan over Roumania (June 3).

[Footnote 133: Hertslet, vol. iv. p. 2577.]

Even before the declaration of independence Roumania had ventured on a few acts of war against
Turkey; but the co-operation of her army, comprising 50,000 regulars and 70,000 National Guards,
with that of Russia proved to be a knotty question. The Emperor Alexander II., on reaching
the Russian headquarters at Plojeschti, to the north of Bukharest, expressed his wish to help
the Roumanian army, but insisted that it must be placed under the commander-in-chief of the
Russian forces, the Grand Duke Nicholas. To this Prince Charles demurred, and the Roumanian
troops at first took no active part in the campaign. Undoubtedly their non-arrival served to
mar the plans of the Russian Staff[134].

[Footnote 134: Reminiscences of the King of Roumania, edited by S. Whitman (1899), pp. 269,
274.] Delays multiplied from the outset. The Russians, not having naval superiority in the
Black Sea which helped to gain them their speedy triumph in the campaign of 1828, could only
strike through Roumania and across the Danube and the difficult passes of the middle Balkans.
Further, as the Roumanian railways had but single lines, the movement of men and stores to
the Danube was very slow. Numbers of the troops, after camping on its marshy banks (for the
river was then in flood), fell ill of malarial fever; above all, the carelessness of the Russian
Staff and the unblushing peculation of its subordinates and contractors clogged the wheels
of the military machine. One result of it was seen in the bad bread supplied to the troops.
A Roumanian officer, when dining with the Grand Duke Nicholas, ventured to compare the ration
bread of the Russians with the far better bread supplied to his own men at cheaper rates. The
Grand Duke looked at the two specimens and then--talked of something else[135]. Nothing could
be done until the flood subsided and large bodies of troops were ready to threaten the Turkish
line of defence at several points[136]. The Ottoman position by no means lacked elements of
strength. The first of these was the Danube itself. The task of crossing a great river in front
of an active foe is one of the most dangerous of all military operations. Any serious miscalculation
of the strength, the position, or the mobility of the enemy's forces may lead to an irreparable
disaster; and until the bridges used for the crossing are defended by têtes de pont the position
of the column that has passed over is precarious.

[Footnote 135: Farcy, La Guerre sur le Danube, p. 73. For other malpractices see Colonel F.A.
Wellesley's With the Russians in Peace and War, chs. xi. xii.]

[Footnote 136: Punch hit off the situation by thus parodying the well-known line of Horace:
"Russicus expectat dum defluat amnis."]

The Danube is especially hard to cross, because its northern bank is for the most part marshy,
and is dominated by the southern bank. The German strategist, von Moltke, who knew Turkey well,
and had written the best history of the Russo-Turkish War of 1828, maintained that the passage
of the Danube must cost the invaders upwards of 50,000 men. Thereafter, they would be threatened
by the Quadrilateral of fortresses--Rustchuk, Shumla, Varna, and Silistria. Three of these
were connected by railway, which enabled the Turks to send troops quickly from the port of
Varna to any position between the mountain stronghold of Shumla and the riverine fortress,
Rustchuk.

Even the non-military reader will see by a glance at the map that this Quadrilateral, if strongly
held, practically barred the roads leading to the Balkans on their eastern side. It also endangered
the march of an invading army through the middle of Bulgaria to the central passes of that
chain. Moreover, there are in that part only two or three passes that can be attempted by an
army with artillery. The fortress of Widdin, where Osman Pasha was known to have an army of
about 40,000 seasoned troops, dominated the west of Bulgaria and the roads leading to the easier
passes of the Balkans near Sofia.

These being the difficulties that confronted the invaders in Europe, it is not surprising that
the first important battles took place in Asia. On the Armenian frontier the Russians, under
Loris Melikoff, soon gained decided advantages, driving back the Turks with considerable losses
on Kars and Erzeroum. The tide of war soon turned in that quarter, but, for the present, the
Muscovite triumphs sent a thrill of fear through Turkey, and probably strengthened the determination
of Abdul-Kerim, the Turkish commander-in-chief in Europe, to maintain a cautious defensive.

Much could be said in favour of a "Fabian" policy of delay. Large Turkish forces were in the
western provinces warring against Montenegro, or watching Austria, Servia, and Greece. It is
even said that Abdul-Kerim had not at first more than about 120,000 men in the whole of Bulgaria,
inclusive of the army at Widdin. But obviously, if the invaders so far counted on his weakness
as to thrust their columns across the Danube in front of forces that could be secretly and
swiftly strengthened by drafts from the south and west, they would expose themselves to the
gravest risks. The apologists of Abdul-Kerim claim that such was his design, and that the signs
of sluggishness which he at first displayed formed a necessary part of a deep-laid scheme for
luring the Russians to their doom. Let the invaders enter Central Bulgaria in force, and expose
their flanks to Abdul-Kerim in the Quadrilateral, and to Osman Pasha at Widdin; then the Turks,
by well-concerted moves against those flanks, would drive the enemy back on the Danube, and
perhaps compel a large part of his forces to lay down their arms. Such is their explanation
of the conduct of Abdul-Kerim.

As the Turkish Government is wholly indifferent to the advance of historical knowledge, it
is impossible even now to say whether this idea was definitely agreed on as the basis of the
plan of campaign. There are signs that Abdul-Kerim and Osman Pasha adopted it, but whether
it was ever approved by the War Council at Constantinople is a different question. Such a plan
obviously implied the possession of great powers of self-control by the Sultan and his advisers,
in face of the initial success of the Russians; and unless that self-control was proof against
panic, the design could not but break down at the crucial point. Signs are not wanting that
in the suggestions here tentatively offered, we find a key that unlocks the riddle of the Danubian
campaign of 1877.

At first Abdul-Kerim in the Quadrilateral, and Osman at Widdin, maintained a strict defensive.
The former posted small bodies of troops, probably not more than 20,000 in all, at Sistova,
Nicopolis, and other neighbouring points. But, apart from a heavy bombardment of Russian and
Roumanian posts on the northern bank, neither commander did much to mar the hostile preparations.
This want of initiative, which contrasted with the enterprise displayed by the Turks in 1854,
enabled the invaders to mature their designs with little or no interruption.

The Russian plan of campaign was to destroy or cripple the four small Turkish ironclads that
patrolled the lower reaches of the river, to make feints at several points, and to force a
passage at two places--first near Ibrail into the Dobrudscha, and thereafter, under cover of
that diversion, from Simnitza to Sistova. The latter place of crossing combined all the possible
advantages. It was far enough away from the Turkish Quadrilateral to afford the first essentials
of safety; it was known to be but weakly held; its position on the shortest line of road between
the Danube and a practicable pass of the Balkans--the Shipka Pass--formed a strong recommendation;
while the presence of an island helped on the first preparations.

The flood of the Danube having at last subsided, all was ready by midsummer. Russian batteries
and torpedo-boats had destroyed two Turkish armoured gunboats in the lower reaches of the river,
and on June 22 a Russian force crossed in boats from a point near Galatz to Matchin, and made
good their hold on the Dobrudscha.

Preparations were also ripe at Simnitza. In the narrow northern arm of the river the boats
and pontoons collected by the Russians were launched with no difficulty, the island was occupied,
and on the night of June 26-27, a Volhynian regiment, along with Cossacks, crossed in boats
over the broad arm of the river, there some 1000 yards wide, and gained a foothold on the bank.
Already their numbers were thinned by a dropping fire from a Turkish detachment; but the Turks
made the mistake of trusting to the bullet instead of plying the bayonet. Before dawn broke,
the first-comers had been able to ensconce themselves under a bank until other boats came up.
Then with rousing cheers they charged the Turks and pressed them back.

This was the scene which greeted the eyes of General Dragomiroff as his boat drew near to the
shore at 5 A.M. Half hidden by the morning mist, the issue seemed doubtful. But at his side
stood a general, fresh from triumphs in Turkestan, who had begged to be allowed to come as
volunteer or aide-de-camp. When Dragomiroff, in an agony of suspense, lowered his glass, the
other continued to gaze, and at last exclaimed: "I congratulate you on your victory." "Where
do you see that?" asked Dragomiroff "Where? on the faces of the soldiers. Look at them. Watch
them as they charge the enemy. It is a pleasure to see them." The verdict was true. It was
the verdict of Skobeleff[137].

[Footnote 137: Quoted from a report by an eye-witness, by "O.K." (Madame Novikoff), Skobeleff
and the Slavonic Cause, p. 38. The crossing was planned by the Grand Duke Nicholas; see von
Lignitz, Aus drei Kriegen, p. 149.]

Such was the first appearance in European warfare of the greatest leader of men that Russia
has produced since the days of Suvoroff. The younger man resembled that sturdy veteran in his
passion for war, his ambition, and that frank, bluff bearing which always wins the hearts of
the soldiery. The grandson of a peasant, whose bravery had won him promotion in the great year,
1812; the son of a general whose prowess was renowned--Skobeleff was at once a commander and
a soldier. "Ah! he knew the soul of a soldier as if he were himself a private." These were
the words often uttered by the Russians about Skobeleff; similar things had been said of Suvoroff
in his day. For champions such as these the emotional Slavs will always pour out their blood
like water. But, like the captor of Warsaw, Skobeleff knew when to put aside the bayonet and
win the day by skill. Both were hard hitters, but they had a hold on the principles of the
art of war. The combination of these qualities was formidable; and many Russians believe that,
had the younger man, with his magnificent physique and magnetic personality, enjoyed the length
of days vouchsafed to the diminutive Suvoroff, he would have changed the face of two continents.

The United States attaché to the Russian army in the Russo-Turkish War afterwards spoke of
his military genius as "stupendous," and prophesied that, should he live twenty years longer,
and lead the Russian armies in the next Turkish war, he would win a place side by side with
"Napoleon, Wellington, Grant, and Moltke." To equate these four names is a mark of transatlantic
enthusiasm rather than of balanced judgment; but the estimate, so far as it concerns Skobeleff,
reflects the opinion of nearly all who knew him[138].

[Footnote 138: F.V. Green, Sketches of Army Life in Russia, p. 142.]

Encouraged by the advent of Skobeleff and Dragomiroff, the Russians assumed the offensive with
full effect, and by the afternoon of that eventful day, had mastered the rising ground behind
Sistova. Here again the Turkish defence was tame. The town was unfortified, but its outskirts
presented facilities for defence. Nevertheless, under the pressure of the Russian attack and
of artillery fire from the north bank, the small Turkish garrison gave up the town and retreated
towards Rustchuk. At many points on that day the Russians treated their foes to a heavy bombardment
or feints of crossing, especially at Nicopolis and Rustchuk; and this accounts for the failure
of the defenders to help the weak garrison on which fell the brunt of the attack. All things
considered, the crossing of the Danube must rank as a highly creditable achievement, skilfully
planned and stoutly carried out; it cost the invaders scarcely 700 men[139].

[Footnote 139: Farcy, La Guerre sur le Danube, ch. viii.; Daily News Correspondence of the
War of 1877-78, ch. viii.]

They now threw a pontoon-bridge across the Danube between Simnitza and Sistova; and by July
2 had 65,000 men and 244 cannon in and near the latter town. Meanwhile, their 14th corps held
the central position of Babadagh in the Dobrudscha, thereby preventing any attack from the
north-east side of the Quadrilateral against their communications with the south of Russia.

It may be questioned, however, whether the invaders did well to keep so large a force in the
Dobrudscha, seeing that a smaller body of light troops patrolling the left bank of the lower
Danube or at the tête de pont at Matchin would have answered the same purpose. The chief use
of the crossing at Matchin was to distract the attention of the enemy, an advance through the
unhealthy district of the Dobrudscha against the Turkish Quadrilateral being in every way risky;
above all, the retention of a whole corps on that side weakened the main line of advance, that
from Sistova; and here it was soon clear that the Russians had too few men for the enterprise
in hand. The pontoon-bridge over the Danube was completed by July 2--a fact which enabled those
troops which were in Roumania to be hurried forward to the front.

Obviously it was unsafe to march towards the Balkans until both flanks were secured against
onsets from the Quadrilateral on the east, and from Nicopolis and Widdin on the west. At Nicopolis,
twenty-five miles away, there were about 10,000 Turks; and around Widdin, about 100 miles farther
up the stream, Osman mustered 40,000 more. To him Abdul-Kerim now sent an order to march against
the flank of the invaders.

Nor were the Balkan passes open to the Russians; for, after the crossing of the Danube, Reuf
Pasha had orders to collect all available troops for their defence, from the Shipka Pass to
the Slievno Pass farther east; 7000 men now held the Shipka; about 10,000 acted as a general
reserve at Slievno; 3000 were thrown forward to Tirnova, where the mountainous country begins,
and detachments held the more difficult tracks over the mountains. An urgent message was also
sent to Suleiman Pasha to disengage the largest possible force from the Montenegrin war; and,
had he received this message in time, or had he acted with the needful speed and skill, events
might have gone very differently.

For some time the Turks seemed to be paralysed at all points by the vigour of the Muscovite
movements. Two corps, the 13th and 14th, marched south-east from Sistova to the torrent of
the Jantra, or Yantra, and seized Biela, an important centre of roads in that district. This
secured them against any immediate attack from the Quadrilateral. The Grand Duke Nicholas also
ordered the 9th corps, under the command of General Krüdener, to advance from Sistova and attack
the weakly fortified town of Nicopolis. Aided by the Roumanian guns on the north bank of the
Danube, this corps succeeded in overpowering the defence and capturing the town, along with
7000 troops and 110 guns (July 16).

Thus the invaders seemed to have gained a secure base on the Danube, from Sistova to Nicopolis,
whence they could safely push forward their vanguard to the Balkans. In point of fact their
light troops had already seized one of its more difficult passes--an exploit that will always
recall the name of that dashing leader, General Gurko. The plan now to be described was his
conception; it was approved by the Grand Duke Nicholas. Setting out from Sistova and drawing
part of his column from the forces at Biela, Gurko first occupied the important town of Tirnova,
the small Turkish garrison making a very poor attempt to defend the old Bulgarian capital (July
7). The liberators there received an overwhelming ovation, and gained many recruits for the
"Bulgarian Legion." Pushing ahead, the Cossacks and Dragoons seized large supplies of provisions
stored by the Turks, and gained valuable news respecting the defences of the passes.

The Shipka Pass, due south of Tirnova, was now strongly held, and Turkish troops were hurrying
towards the two passes north of Slievno, some fifty miles farther east. Even so they had not
enough men at hand to defend all the passes of the mountain chain that formed their chief line
of defence. They left one of them practically undefended; this was the Khainkoi Pass, having
an elevation of 3700 feet above the sea.

A Russian diplomatist, Prince Tserteleff, who was charged to collect information about the
passes, found that the Khainkoi enjoyed an evil reputation. "Ill luck awaits him who crosses
the Khainkoi Pass," so ran the local proverb. He therefore determined to try it; by dint of
questioning the friendly Bulgarian peasantry he found one man who had been through it once,
and that was two years before with an ox-cart. Where an ox-cart could go, a light mountain
gun could go. Accordingly, the Prince and General Rauch went with 200 Cossacks to explore the
pass, set the men to work at the worst places, and, thanks to the secrecy observed by the peasantry,
soon made the path to the summit practicable for cavalry and light guns. The Prince disguised
himself as a Bulgarian shepherd to examine the southern outlet; and, on his bringing a favourable
report, 11,000 men of Gurko's command began to thread the intricacies of the defile.

Thanks to good food, stout hearts, jokes, and songs, they managed to get the guns up the worst
places. Then began the perils of the descent. But the Turks knew nothing of their effort, else
it might have ended far otherwise. At the southern end 300 Turkish regulars were peacefully
smoking their pipes and cooking their food when the Cossack and Rifles in the vanguard burst
upon them, drove them headlong, and seized the village of Khainkoi. A pass over the Balkans
had been secured at the cost of two men killed and three wounded. Gurko was almost justified
in sending to the Grand Duke Nicholas the proud vaunt that none but Russian soldiers could
have brought field artillery over such a pass, and in the short space of three days (July 11-14)[140].

[Footnote 140: General Gurko's Advance Guard In 1877, by Colonel Epauchin, translated by H.
Havelock (The Wolseley Series, 1900), ch. ii.; The Daily News War Correspondence (1877), pp.
263-270.]

After bringing his column of 11,000 men through the pass, Gurko drove off four Turkish battalions
sent against him from the Shipka Pass and Kazanlik. Next he sent out bands of Cossacks to spread
terror southwards, and delude the Turks into the belief that he meant to strike at the important
towns, Jeni Zagra and Eski Zagra, on the road to Adrianople. Having thus caused them to loosen
their grip on Kazanlik and the Shipka, he wheeled his main force to the westward (leaving 3500
men to hold the exit of the Khainkoi), and drove the Turks successively from positions in front
of the town, from the town itself, and then from the village of Shipka. Above that place towered
the mighty wall of the Balkans, lessened somewhat at the pass itself, but presenting even there
a seemingly impregnable position.

Gurko, however, relied on the discouragement of the Turkish garrison after the defeats of their
comrades, and at seeing their positions turned on the south while they were also threatened
on the north. For another Russian column had advanced from Tirnova up the more gradual northern
slopes of the Balkans, and now began to hammer at the defences of the pass on that side. The
garrison consisted of six and a half battalions under Khulussi Pasha, and the wreckage of five
battalions already badly beaten by Gurko's column. These, with one battery of artillery, held
the pass and the neighbouring peaks, which they had in part fortified.

In pursuance of a pre-arranged plan for a joint attack on July 17 of both Russian forces, the
northern body advanced up the slopes; but, as Gurko's men were unable to make their diversion
in time, the attack failed. An isolated attempt by Gurko's force on the next day also failed,
the defenders disgracing themselves by tricking the Russians with the white flag and firing
upon them. But the Turks were now in difficulties for want of food and water; or possibly they
were seized with panic. At any rate, while amusing the Russians with proposals of surrender,
they stole off in small bodies, early on July 19. The truth was, ere long, found out by outposts
of the north Russian forces; Skobeleff and his men were soon at the summit, and there Gurko's
vanguard speedily joined them with shouts of joy.

Thus, within twenty-three days from the crossing of the Danube Gurko seized two passes of the
Balkans, besides capturing 800 prisoners and 13 guns. It is not surprising that a Turkish official
despatch of July 21 to Suleiman summed up the position: "The existence of the Empire hangs
on a hair." And when Gurko's light troops proceeded to raid the valley of the Maritsa, it seemed
that the Turkish defence would collapse as helplessly as in the memorable campaign of 1828.
We must add here that the Bulgarians now began to revenge themselves for the outrages of May
1876; and the struggle was sullied by horrible acts on both sides.

The impression produced by these dramatic strokes was profound and widespread. The British
fleet was sent to Besika Bay, a step preparatory, as it seemed, to steaming up the Dardanelles
to the Sea of Marmora. At Adrianople crowds of Moslems fled away in wild confusion towards
Constantinople. There the frequent meetings of ministers at the Sultan's palace testified to
the extent of the alarm; and that nervous despot wavered between the design of transferring
the seat of government to Brussa in Asia Minor, and that of unfurling the standard of the Prophet
and summoning all the faithful to rally to its defence against the infidels. Finally he took
courage from despair, and adopted the more manly course. But first he disgraced his ministers.
The War Minister and Abdul-Kerim were summarily deposed, the latter being sent off as prisoner
to the island of Lemnos.

All witnesses agree that the War Minister, Redif Pasha, was incapable and corrupt. The age
and weakness of Abdul-Kerim might have excused his comparative inaction in the Quadrilateral
in the first half of July. It is probable that his plan of campaign, described above, was sound;
but he lacked the vigour, and the authorities at Constantinople lacked the courage, to carry
it out thoroughly and consistently.

Mehemet Ali Pasha, a renegade German, who had been warring with some success in Montenegro,
assumed the supreme command on July 22; and Suleiman Pasha, who, with most of his forces had
been brought by sea from Antivari to the mouth of the River Maritsa, now gathered together
all the available troops for the defence of Roumelia.

The Czar, on his side, cherished hopes of ending the war while Fortune smiled on his standards.
There are good grounds for thinking that he had entered on it with great reluctance. In its
early stages he let the British Government know of his desire to come to terms with Turkey;
and now his War Minister, General Milutin, hinted to Colonel F.A. Wellesley, British attaché
at headquarters, that the mediation of Great Britain would be welcomed by Russia. That officer
on July 30 had an interview with the Emperor, who set forth the conditions on which he would
be prepared to accept peace with Turkey. They were--the recovery of the strip of Bessarabia
lost in 1856, and the acquisition of Batoum in Asia Minor. Alexander II. also stated that he
would not occupy Constantinople unless that step were necessitated by the course of events;
that the Powers would be invited to a conference for the settlement of Turkish affairs; and
that he had no wish to interfere with the British spheres of interest already referred to.
Colonel Wellesley at once left headquarters for London, but on the following day the aspect
of the campaign underwent a complete change, which, in the opinion of the British Government,
rendered futile all hope of a settlement on the conditions laid down by the Czar.[141]

[Footnote 141: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 9 (1878), Nos. 2, 3. With the Russians in Peace and
War, by Colonel the Hon. F.A. Wellesley, ch. xx.]

For now, when the Turkish cause seemed irrevocably lost, the work of a single brave man to
the north of the Balkans dried up, as if by magic, the flood of invasion, brought back victory
to the standards of Islam, and bade fair to overwhelm the presumptuous Muscovites in the waters
of the Danube. Moltke in his account of the war of 1828, had noted a peculiarity of the Ottomans
in warfare (a characteristic which they share with the glorious defenders of Saragossa in 1808)
of beginning the real defence when others would abandon it as hopeless. This remark, if not
true of the Turkish army as a whole, certainly applies to that part of it which was thrilled
to deeds of daring by Osman Pasha.

More fighting had fallen to him perhaps than to any Turk of his time. He was now forty years
of age; his frame, slight and of middle height, gave no promise of strength or capacity; neither
did his face, until the observer noted the power of his eyes to take in the whole situation
"with one slow comprehensive look[142]." This gave him a magnetic faculty, the effect of which
was not wholly marred by his disdainful manners, curt speech, and contemptuous treatment of
foreigners. Clearly here was a cold, sternly objective nature like that of Bonaparte. He was
a good representative of the stolid Turk of the provinces, who, far from the debasing influence
of the Court, retains the fanaticism and love of war on behalf of his creed that make his people
terrible even in the days of decline[143].

[Footnote 142: W.W. Herbert, The Defence of Plevna, p. 81.]

[Footnote 143: For these qualities, see Turkey in Europe, by "Odysseus," p. 97.]

In accordance with the original design of Abdul-Kerim, Osman had for some time remained passive
at Widdin. On receiving orders from the commander-in-chief, he moved eastwards on July 13,
with 40,000 men, to save Nicopolis. Finding himself too late to save that place he then laid
his plans for the seizure of Plevna. The importance of that town, as a great centre of roads,
and as possessing many advantages for defence on the hills around, had been previously pointed
out to the Russian Staff by Prince Charles of Roumania, as indeed, earlier still, by Moltke.
Accordingly, the Grand Duke Nicholas had directed a small force of cavalry towards that town.
General Krüdener made the mistake of recalling it in order to assist in the attack on Nicopolis
on July 14-16, an unlucky move, which enabled Osman to occupy Plevna without resistance on
July 19[144]. On the 18th the Grand Duke Nicholas ordered General Krüdener to occupy Plevna.
Knowing nothing of Osman's whereabouts, his vanguard advanced heedlessly on the town, only
to meet with a very decided repulse, which cost the Russians 3000 men (July 20).

[Footnote 144: Herbert, The Defence of Plevna, p. 129.]

Osman now entrenched himself on the open downs that stretch eastwards from Plevna. As will
be seen by reference to the map on page 213, his position, roughly speaking, formed an ellipse
pointing towards the village of Grivitza. Above that village his engineers threw up two great
redoubts which dominated the neighbourhood. Other redoubts and trenches screened Plevna on
the north-east and south. Finally, the crowns of three main slopes lying to the east of Plevna
bristled with defensive works. West of the town lay the deep vale of the little River Wid,
itself the chief defence on that side. We may state here that during the long operations against
Plevna the Russians had to content themselves with watching this western road to Orkanye and
Sofia by means of cavalry; but the reinforcements from Sofia generally made their way in. From
that same quarter the Turks were also able to despatch forces to occupy the town of Lovtcha,
between Plevna and the Shipka Pass.

The Russian Staff, realising its error in not securing this important centre of roads, and
dimly surmising the strength of the entrenchments which Osman was throwing up near to the base
of their operations, determined to attack Plevna at once. Their task proved to be one of unexpected
magnitude. Already the long curve of the outer Turkish lines spread along slopes which formed
natural glacis, while the ground farther afield was so cut up by hollows as to render one combined
assault very difficult. The strength, and even the existence, of some of Osman's works were
unknown. Finally, the Russians are said to have had only 32,000 infantry men at hand with two
brigades of cavalry.

Nevertheless, Generals Krüdener and Schahofski received orders to attack forthwith. They did
so on July 31. The latter, with 12,000 men took two of the outer redoubts on the south side,
but had to fall back before the deadly fire that poured on him from the inner works. Krüdener
operated against the still stronger positions on the north; but, owing to difficulties that
beset his advance, he was too late to make any diversion in favour of his colleague. In a word,
the attack was ill planned and still worse combined. Five hours of desperate fighting yielded
the assailants not a single substantial gain; their losses were stated officially to be 7336
killed and wounded; but this is certainly below the truth. Turkish irregulars followed the
retreating columns at nightfall, and butchered the wounded, including all whom they found in
a field-hospital.

This second reverse at Plevna was a disaster of the first magnitude. The prolongation of the
Russian line beyond the Balkans had left their base and flanks too weak to stand against the
terrible blows that Osman seemed about to deal from his point of vantage. Plevna was to their
right flank what Biela was to their left. Troops could not be withdrawn from the latter point
lest the Turks from Shumla and Rustchuk should break through and cut their way to the bridge
at Sistova; and now Osman's force threatened that spinal cord of the Russian communications.
If he struck how could the blow be warded off? For bad news poured in from all quarters. From
Armenia came the tidings that Mukhtar Pasha, after a skilful retreat and concentration of force,
had turned on the Russians and driven them back in utter confusion.

From beyond the Balkans Gurko sent news that Suleiman's army was working round by way of Adrianople,
and threatened to pin him to the mountain chain. In fact, part of Gurko's corps sustained a
serious reverse at Eski Zagra, and had to retreat in haste through the Khainkoi Pass; while
its other sections made their way back to the Shipka Pass, leaving a rearguard to hold that
important position (July 30-August 8). Thus, on all sides, proofs accumulated that the invaders
had attempted far too much for their strength, and that their whole plan of campaign was more
brilliant than sound. Possibly, had not the 14th corps been thrown away on the unhealthy Dobrudscha,
enough men would have been at hand to save the situation. But now everything was at stake.

The whole of the month of August was a time of grave crisis for the Russians, and it is the
opinion of the best military critics that the Turks, with a little more initiative and power
of combination, might have thrown the Russians back on the Danube in utter disarray. From this
extremity the invaders were saved by the lack among the Turks of the above-named gifts, on
which, rather than on mere bravery, the issue of campaigns and the fate of nations now ultimately
depend. True to their old renown, the Turks showed signal prowess on the field of battle, but
they lacked the higher intellectual qualities that garner the full harvest of results.

Osman, either because he knew not that the Russians had used up their last reserves at Plevna,
or because he mistrusted the manoeuvring powers of his men, allowed Krüdener quietly to draw
off his shattered forces towards Sistova, and made only one rather half-hearted move against
that all-important point. The new Turkish commander-in-chief, Mehemet Ali, gathered a formidable
array in front of Shumla and drove the Russian army now led by the Cesarewich back on Biela,
but failed to pierce their lines. Finally, Suleiman Pasha, in his pride at driving Gurko through
the Khainkoi Pass, wasted time on the southern side, first by harrying the wretched Bulgarians,
and then by hurling his brave troops repeatedly against the now almost impregnable position
on the Shipka Pass.

It is believed that jealousy of the neighbouring Turkish generals kept Suleiman from adopting
less wasteful and more effective tactics. If he had made merely a feint of attacking that post,
and had hurried with his main body through the Slievno Pass on the east to the aid of Mehemet,
or through the western defiles of the Balkans to the help of the brave Osman in his Plevna-Lovtcha
positions, probably the gain of force to one or other of them might have led to really great
results. As it was, these generals dealt heavy losses to the invaders, but failed to drive
them back on the Danube.

Moreover, Russian reinforcements began to arrive by the middle of August, the Emperor having
already, on July 22, called out the first ban of the militia and three divisions of the reserve
of the line, in all some 224,000 men[145].

[Footnote 145: F.V. Greene, The Campaign in Bulgaria, p. 225.]

The bulk of these men did not arrive until September; and meanwhile the strain was terrible.
The war correspondence of Mr. Archibald Forbes reveals the state of nervous anxiety in which
Alexander II. was plunged at this time. Forbes had been a witness of the savage tenacity of
the Turkish attack and the Russian defence on the hills commanding the Shipka Pass. Finally,
he had shared in the joy of the hard-pressed defenders at the timely advent of a rifle battalion
hastily sent up on Cossack ponies, and the decisive charge of General Radetzky at the head
of two companies of reserves at a Turkish breastwork in the very crisis of the fight (Aug.
24). Then, after riding post-haste northwards to the Russian headquarters at Gornisstuden,
he was at once taken to the Czar's tent, and noted the look of eager suspense on his face until
he heard the reassuring news that Radetzky kept his seat firm on the pass.

The worst was now over. The Russian Guards, 50,000 strong, were near at hand, along with the
other reinforcements above named. The urgency of the crisis also led the Grand Duke Nicholas
to waive his claim that the Roumanian troops should be placed under his immediate command.
Accordingly, early in August, Prince Charles led some 35,000 Roumanians across the Danube,
and was charged with the command of all the troops around Plevna[146]. The hopes of the invaders
were raised by Skobeleff's capture, on September 3, of Lovtcha, a place half-way between Plevna
and the Balkans, which had ensured Osman's communications with Suleiman Pasha. The Turkish
losses at Lovtcha are estimated at nearly 15,000 men[147].

[Footnote 146: Reminiscences of the King of Roumania, p. 275.]

[Footnote 147: F.V. Greene, op. cit. p. 232.]

This success having facilitated the attack on Plevna from the south, a general assault was
ordered for September 11. In the meantime Osman also had received large reinforcements from
Sofia, and had greatly strengthened his defences. So skilfully had outworks been thrown up
on the north-east of Plevna that what looked like an unimportant trench was found to be a new
and formidable redoubt, which foiled the utmost efforts of the 3rd Roumanian division to struggle
up the steep slopes on that side. To their 4th division and to a Russian brigade fell an equally
hard task, that of advancing from the east against the two Grivitza redoubts which had defied
all assaults. The Turks showed their usual constancy, despite the heavy and prolonged bombardment
which preluded the attack here and all along the lines. But the weight and vigour of the onset
told by degrees; and the Russian and Roumanian supports finally carried by storm the more southerly
of the two redoubts. The Turks made desperate efforts to retrieve this loss. From the northern
redoubt and the rear entrenchments somewhat to the south there came a galling fire which decimated
the victors; for a time the Turks succeeded in recovering the work, but at nightfall the advance
of other Russian and Roumanian troops ousted the Moslems. Thenceforth the redoubt was held
by the allies.

Meanwhile, to the south of the village of Grivitza the 4th and 9th Russian Corps had advanced
in dense masses against the cluster of redoubts that crowned the heights south-east of Plevna;
but their utmost efforts were futile; under the fearful fire of the Turks the most solid lines
melted away, and the corps fell back at nightfall, with the loss of 110 officers and 5200 men.

Only on the south and south-west did the assailants seriously imperil Osman's defence at a
vital point; and here again Fortune bestowed her favours on a man who knew how to wrest the
utmost from her, Michael Dimitrievitch Skobeleff. Few men or women could look on his stalwart
figure, frank, bold features, and keen, kindling eyes without a thrill of admiration. Tales
were told by the camp-fires of the daring of his early exploits in Central Asia; how, after
the capture of Khiva in 1874, he dressed himself in Turkoman garb, and alone explored the route
from that city to Igdy, as well as the old bed of the River Oxus; or again how, at the capture
of Khokand in the following year, his skill and daring led to the overthrow of a superior force
and the seizure of fifty-eight guns. Thus, at thirty-two years of age he was the darling of
the troops; for his prowess in the field was not more marked than his care and foresight in
the camp. While other generals took little heed of their men, he saw to their comforts and
cheered them by his jokes. They felt that he was the embodiment of the patriotism, love of
romantic exploit, and soaring ambition of the Great Russians.

They were right. Already, as will appear in a later chapter, he was dreaming of the conquest
of India; and, like Napoleon, he could not only see visions but also master details, from the
principles of strategy to the routine of camp life, which made those visions realisable. If
ambition spurred him on towards Delhi, hatred of things Teutonic pointed him to Berlin. Ill
would it have fared with the peace of the world had this champion of the Slavonic race lived
out his life. But his fiery nature wore out its tenement, the baser passions, so it is said,
contributing to hasten the end of one who lived his true life only amidst the smoke of battle.
In war he was sublime. Having recently came from Central Asia, he was at first unattached to
any corps, and roved about in search of the fiercest fighting. His insight and skill had warded
off a deadly flank attack on Schahofski's shattered corps at Plevna on July 30, and his prowess
had contributed largely to the capture of Lovtcha on September 3. War correspondents, who knew
their craft, turned to follow Skobeleff, wherever official reports might otherwise direct them;
and the lust of fighting laid hold of the grey columns when they saw the "white general" approach.

On September 11 Prince Imeritinski and Skobeleff (the order should be inverted) commanded the
extreme left of the Russian line, attacking Plevna from the south. Having four regiments of
the line and four battalions of sharpshooters--about 12,000 men in all--he ranged them at the
foot of the hill, whose summit was crowned by an all-important redoubt-the "Kavanlik." There
were four others that flanked the approach. When the Russian guns had thoroughly cleared the
way for an assault, he ordered the bands to play and the two leading regiments to charge up
the slope. Keeping his hand firmly on the pulse of the battle, he saw them begin to waver under
the deadly fire of the Turks; at once he sent up a rival regiment; the new mass carried on
the charge until it too threatened to die away. The fourth regiment struggled up into that
wreath of death, and with the like result.

Then Skobeleff called on his sharpshooters to drive home the onset. Riding on horseback before
the invigorating lines, he swept on the stragglers and waverers until all of them came under
the full blast of the Turkish flames vomited from the redoubt. There his sword fell, shivered
in his hand, and his horse rolled over at the very verge of the fosse. Fierce as ever, the
leader sprang to his feet, waved the stump in air, and uttered a shout which put fresh heart
into his men. With him they swarmed into the fosse, up the bank, and fell on the defenders.
The bayonet did the rest, taking deadly revenge for the murderous volleys.

But Osman's engineers had provided against such an event. The redoubt was dominated from the
left and could be swept by cross fire from the rear and right. On the morrow the Turks drew
in large forces from the north side and pressed the victors hard. In vain did Skobeleff send
urgent messages for reinforcements to make good the gaps in his ranks. None were sent, or indeed
could be sent. Five times his men beat off the foe. The sixth charge hurled them first from
the Kavanlik redoubt, and thereafter from the flanking works and trenches out on to that fatal
slope. I never before saw such a picture of battle[148]."

[Footnote 148: War Correspondence of the "Daily News," pp. 479-483. For another character-sketch
of Skobeleff see the Fortnightly Review of Oct. 1882, by W.K. Rose.]

Thus all the efforts of the Russians and Roumanians had failed to wrest more than a single
redoubt from the Moslems; and at that point they were unable to make any advance against the
inner works. The fighting of September 11-12 is believed to have cost the allies 18,000 men
killed and wounded out of the 75,000 infantrymen engaged. The mistakes of July 31 had been
again repeated. The number of assailants was too small for an attack on so great an extent
of fortified positions defended with quick-firing rifles. Had the Russians, while making feints
at other points to hold the Turks there, concentrated their efforts either on the two Grivitza
redoubts, or on those about the Kavanlik work, they would almost certainly have succeeded.
As it was, they hurled troops in close order against lines, the strength of which was not well
known; and none of their commanders but Skobeleff employed tactics that made the most of their
forces[149]. The depression at the Russian headquarters was now extreme[150]. On September
13 the Emperor held a council of war at which the Prince of Roumania, the Grand Duke Nicholas,
General Milutin (Minister of War), and three other generals were present. The Grand Duke declared
that the only prudent course was to retire to the Danube, construct a tête de pont guarding
the southern end of their bridge and, after receiving reinforcements, again begin the conquest
of Bulgaria. General Milutin, however, demurred to this, seeing that Osman's army was not mobile
enough to press them hard; he therefore proposed to await the reinforcements in the positions
around Plevna. The Grand Duke thereupon testily exclaimed that Milutin had better be placed
in command, to which the Emperor replied: "No; you shall retain the command; but the plan suggested
by the Minister of War shall be carried out[151]."

[Footnote 149: For an account of the battle, see Greene, op. cit. pt. ii. chap. v.]

[Footnote 150: Gen. von. Lignitz, Aus drei Kriegen, p. 167.]

[Footnote 151: Col. F.A. Wellesley, op. cit. p. 281.]

The Emperor's decision saved the situation. The Turks made no combined effort to advance towards
Plevna in force; and Osman felt too little trust in the new levies that reached him from Sofia
to move into the open and attack Sistova. Indeed, Turkish strategy over the whole field of
war is open to grave censure. On their side there was a manifest lack of combination. Mehemet
Ali pounded away for a month at the army of the Czarewitch on the River Lom, and then drew
back his forces (September 24). He allowed Suleiman Pasha to fling his troops in vain against
the natural stronghold of the Russians at the Shipka Pass, and had made no dispositions for
succouring Lovtcha. Obviously he should have concentrated the Turkish forces so as to deal
a timely and decisive blow either on the Lom or on the Sofia-Plevna road. When he proved his
incapacity both as commander-in-chief and as commander of his own force, Turkish jealousy against
the quondam German flared forth; and early in October he was replaced by Suleiman. The change
was greatly for the worse. Suleiman's pride and obstinacy closed the door against larger ideas,
and it has been confidently stated that at the end of the campaign he was bribed by the Russians
to betray his cause. However that may be, it is certain that the Turkish generals continued
to fight, each for his own hand, and thus lost the campaign.

It was now clear that Osman must be starved out from the position which the skill of his engineers
and the steadiness of his riflemen had so speedily transformed into an impregnable stronghold.
Todleben, the Russian engineer, who had strengthened the outworks of Sevastopol, had been called
up to oppose trench to trench, redoubt to redoubt. Yet so extensive were the Turkish works,
and so active was Shevket Pasha's force at Sofia in sending help and provisions, that not until
October 24 was the line of investment completed, and by an army which now numbered fully 120,000
men. By December 10 Osman came to the end of his resources and strove to break out on the west
over the River Wid towards Sofia. Masking the movement with great skill, he inflicted heavy
losses on the besiegers. Slowly, however, they closed around him, and a last scene of slaughter
ended in the surrender of the 43,000 half-starved survivors, with the 77 guns that had wrought
such havoc among the invaders. Osman's defence is open to criticism at some points, but it
had cost Russia more than 50,000 lives, and paralysed her efforts in Europe during five months.

The operations around Plevna are among the most instructive in modern warfare, as illustrating
the immense power that quick-firing rifles confer upon the defence. Given a nucleus of well-trained
troops, with skilled engineers, any position of ordinary strength can quickly be turned into
a stronghold that will foil the efforts of a far greater number of assailants. Experience at
Plevna showed that four or five times as many men were needed to attack redoubts and trenches
as in the days of muzzle-loading muskets. It also proved that infantry fire is far more deadly
in such cases than the best served artillery. And yet a large part of Osman's troops--perhaps
the majority after August--were not regulars. Doubtless that explains why (with the exception
of an obstinate but unskilful effort to break out on August 31) he did not attack the Russians
in the open after his great victories of July 31 and September 11-12. On both occasions the
Russians were so badly shaken that, in the opinion of competent judges, they could easily have
been driven in on Nicopolis or Sistova, in which case the bridges at those places might have
been seized. But Osman did not do so, doubtless because he knew that his force, weak in cavalry
and unused to manoeuvring, would be at a disadvantage in the open. Todleben, however, was informed
on good authority that, when the Turkish commander heard of the likelihood of the investment
of Plevna, he begged the Porte to allow him to retire; but the assurance of Shevket Pasha,
the commander of the Turkish force at Sofia, that he could keep open communications between
that place and Plevna, decided the authorities at Constantinople to order the continuance of
defensive tactics[152].

[Footnote 152: A. Forbes, Czar and Sultan, p. 291. On the other hand, W.V. Herbert (op. cit.
p. 456) states that it was Osman's wish to retire to Orkanye, on the road to Sofia, and that
this was forbidden. For remarks on this see Greene, op. cit. chap. viii.]

Whatever may have been the cause of this decision it ruined the Turkish campaign. Adherence
to the defensive spells defeat now, as it has always done. Defeat comes more slowly now that
quick-firing rifles quadruple the power of the defence; but all the same it must come if the
assailant has enough men to throw on that point and then at other points. Or, to use technical
terms, while modern inventions alter tactics, that is, the dispositions of troops on the field
of battle--a fact which the Russians seemed to ignore at Plevna--they do not change the fundamental
principles of strategy. These are practically immutable, and they doom to failure the side
that, at the critical points, persists in standing on the defensive. A study of the events
around Plevna shows clearly what a brave but ill-trained army can do and what it cannot do
under modern conditions.

From the point of view of strategy--that is, the conduct of the great operations of a campaign--Osman's
defence of Plevna yields lessons of equal interest. It affords the most brilliant example in
modern warfare of the power of a force strongly intrenched in a favourable position to "contain,"
that is, to hold or hold back, a greater force of the enemy. Other examples are the Austrian
defence of Mantua in 1796-97, which hindered the young Bonaparte's invasion of the Hapsburg
States; Bazaine's defence of Metz in 1870; and Sir George White's defence of Ladysmith against
the Boers. We have no space in which to compare these cases, in which the conditions varied
so greatly. Suffice it to say that Mantua and Plevna were the most effective instances, largely
because those strongholds lay near the most natural and easy line of advance for the invaders.
Metz and Ladysmith possessed fewer advantages in this respect; and, considering the strength
of the fortress and the size and quality of his army, Bazaine's conduct at Metz must rank as
the weakest on record; for his 180,000 troops "contained" scarcely more than their own numbers
of Germans.

On the other hand, Osman's force brought three times its number of Russians to a halt for five
months before hastily constructed lines. In the opinion of many authorities the Russians did
wrong in making the whole campaign depend on Plevna. When it was clear that Osman would cling
to the defensive, they might with safety have secretly detached part of the besieging force
to help the army of the Czarewitch to drive back the Turks on Shumla. This would have involved
no great risk; for the Russians occupied the inner lines of what was, roughly speaking, a triangle,
resting on the Shipka Pass, the River Lom, and Plevna as its extreme points. Having the advantage
of the inner position, they could quickly have moved part of their force at Plevna, battered
in the Turkish defence on the Lom, and probably captured the Slievno passes. In that case they
would have cleared a new line of advance to Constantinople farther to the east, and made the
possession of Plevna of little worth. Its value always lay in its nearness to their main line
of advance, but they were not tied to that line. It is safe to say that, if Moltke had directed
their operations, he would have devised some better plan than that of hammering away at the
redoubts of Plevna.

In fact, the Russians made three great blunders: first, in neglecting to occupy Plevna betimes;
second, in underrating Osman's powers of defence; third, in concentrating all their might on
what was a very strong, but not an essential, point of the campaign.

The closing scenes of the war are of little interest except in the domain of diplomacy. Servia
having declared war against Turkey immediately after the fall of Plevna, the Turks were now
hopelessly outnumbered. Gurko forced his way over one of the western passes of the Balkans,
seized Sofia (January 4, 1878), and advancing quickly towards Philippopolis, utterly routed
Suleiman's main force near that town (January 17). The Turkish commander-in-chief thus paid
for his mistake in seeking to defend a mountain chain with several passes by distributing his
army among those passes. Experience has proved that this invites disaster at the hands of an
enterprising foe, and that the true policy is to keep light troops or scouts at all points,
and the main forces at a chief central pass and at a convenient place in the rear, whence the
invaders may be readily assailed before they complete the crossing. As it was, Suleiman saw
his main force, still nearly 50,000 strong, scatter over the Rhodope mountains; many of them
reached the Aegean Sea at Enos, whence they were conveyed by ship to the Dardanelles. He himself
was tried by court-martial and imprisoned for fifteen years[153].

[Footnote 153: Sir N. Layard attributed to him the overthrow of Turkey. See his letter of February
1, 1878, in Sir W. White: Life and Correspondence, p. 127.] A still worse fate befell those
of his troops which hung about Radetzky's front below the Shipka Pass. The Russians devised
skilful moves for capturing this force. On January 5-8 Prince Mirsky threaded his way with
a strong column through the deep snows of the Travna Pass, about twenty-five miles east of
the Shipka, which he then approached; while Skobeleff struggled through a still more difficult
defile west of the central position. The total strength of the Russians was 56,000 men. On
the 8th, when their cannon were heard thundering in the rear of the Turkish earthworks at the
foot of the Shipka Pass, Radetzky charged down on the Turkish positions in front, while Mirsky
assailed them from the east. Skobeleff meanwhile had been detained by the difficulties of the
path and the opposition of the Turks on the west. But on the morrow his onset on the main Turkish
positions carried all before it. On all sides the Turks were worsted and laid down their arms;
36,000 prisoners and 93 guns (so the Russians claim) were the prize of this brilliant feat
(January 9, 1878)[154].

[Footnote 154: Greene, op. cit. chap. xi. I have been assured by an Englishman serving with
the Turks that these numbers were greatly exaggerated.]

In Roumelia, as in Armenia, there now remained comparatively few Turkish troops to withstand
the Russian advance, and the capture of Constantinople seemed to be a matter of a few weeks.
There are grounds for thinking that the British Ministry, or certainly its chief, longed to
send troops from Malta to help in its defence. Colonel Wellesley, British attaché at the Russian
headquarters, returned to London at the time when the news of the crossing of the Balkans reached
the Foreign Office. At once he was summoned to see the Prime Minister, who inquired eagerly
as to the length of time which would elapse before the Russians occupied Adrianople. The officer
thought that that event might occur within a month--an estimate which proved to be above the
mark. Lord Beaconsfield was deeply concerned to hear this and added, "If you can only guarantee
me six weeks, I see my way." He did not further explain his meaning; but Colonel Wellesley
felt sure that he wished to move British troops from Malta to Constantinople[155]. Fortunately
the Russian advance to Adrianople was so speedy--their vanguard entered that city on January
20--as to dispose of any such project. But it would seem that only the utter collapse of the
Turkish defence put an end to the plans of part at least of the British Cabinet for an armed
intervention on behalf of Turkey.

[Footnote 155: With the Russians in Peace and War, by Colonel F.A. Wellesley, p. 272.]

Here, then, as at so many points of their history, the Turks lost their opportunity, and that,
too, through the incapacity and corruption of their governing class. The war of 1877 ended
as so many of their wars had ended. Thanks to the bravery of their rank and file and the mistakes
of the invaders, they gained tactical successes at some points; but they failed to win the
campaign owing to the inability of their Government to organise soundly on a great scale, and
the intellectual mediocrity of their commanders in the sphere of strategy. Mr. Layard, who
succeeded Sir Henry Elliot at Constantinople early in 1878, had good reason for writing, "The
utter rottenness of the present system has been fully revealed by the present war[156]." Whether
Suleiman was guilty of perverse obstinacy, or, as has often been asserted, of taking bribes
from the Russians, cannot be decided. What is certain is that he was largely responsible for
the final débacle.

[Footnote 156: Sir William White: Life and Correspondence, p. 128.]

But in a wider and deeper sense the Turks owed their misfortunes to themselves--to their customs
and their creed. Success in war depends ultimately on the brain-power of the chief leaders
and organisers; and that source of strength has long ago been dried up in Turkey by adhesion
to a sterilising creed and cramping traditions. The wars of the latter half of the nineteenth
century are of unique interest, not only because they have built up the great national fabrics
of to-day, but also because they illustrate the truth of that suggestive remark of the great
Napoleon, "The general who does great things is he who also possesses qualities adapted for
civil life."

CHAPTER IX

THE BALKAN SETTLEMENT

     New hopes should animate the world; new light
     Should dawn from new revealings to a race
     Weighed down so long, forgotten so long.

     ROBERT BROWNING, Paracelsus.

The collapse of the Turkish defence in Roumelia inaugurated a time of great strain and stress
in Anglo-Russian relations. On December 13, 1877, that is, three days after the fall of Plevna,
Lord Derby reminded the Russian Government of its promise of May 30, 1876, that the acquisition
of Constantinople was excluded from the wishes and intentions of the Emperor Alexander II.,
and expressed the earnest hope that the Turkish capital would not be occupied, even for military
purposes. The reply of the Russian Chancellor (December 16) was reserved. It claimed that Russia
must have full right of action, which is the right of every belligerent, and closed with a
request for a clearer definition of the British interests which would be endangered by such
a step. In his answer of January 13, 1878, the British Foreign Minister specified the occupation
of the Dardanelles as an event that would endanger the good relations between England and Russia;
whereupon Prince Gortchakoff, on January 16, 1878, gave the assurance that this step would
not be taken unless British forces were landed at Gallipoli, or Turkish troops were concentrated
there.

So far this was satisfactory; but other signs seemed to betoken a resolve on the part of Russia
to gain time while her troops pressed on towards Constantinople. The return of the Czar to
St. Petersburg after the fall of Plevna had left more power in the hands of the Grand Duke
Nicholas and of the many generals who longed to revenge themselves for the disasters in Bulgaria
by seizing Constantinople.

In face of the probability of this event, public opinion in England underwent a complete change.
Russia appeared no longer as the champion of oppressed Christians, but as an ambitious and
grasping Power. Mr. Gladstone's impassioned appeals for non-intervention lost their effect,
and a warlike feeling began to prevail. The change of feeling was perfectly natural. Even those
who claimed that the war might have been averted by the adoption of a different policy by the
Beaconsfield Cabinet, had to face the facts of the situation; and these were extremely grave.

The alarm increased when it was known that Turkey, on January 3, 1878, had appealed to the
Powers for their mediation, and that Germany had ostentatiously refused. It seemed probable
that Russia, relying on the support of Germany, would endeavour to force her own terms on the
Porte. Lord Loftus, British Ambassador at St. Petersburg, was therefore charged to warn the
Ministers of the Czar (January 16) that any treaty made separately between Russia and Turkey,
which affected the international treaties of 1856 and 1871, would not be valid without the
consent of all the signatory Powers. Four days later the Muscovite vanguard entered Adrianople,
and it appeared likely that peace would soon be dictated at Constantinople without regard to
the interests of Great Britain and Austria.

Such was the general position when Parliament met at Westminster on January 17. The Queen's
Speech contained the significant phrase that, should hostilities be unfortunately prolonged,
some unexpected occurrence might render it incumbent to adopt measures of precaution. Five
days later it transpired that the Sultan had sent an appeal to Queen Victoria for her mediation
with a view to arranging an armistice and the discussion of the preliminaries of peace. In
accordance with this appeal, the Queen telegraphed to the Emperor of Russia in these terms:--

     I have received a direct appeal from the Sultan which I
     cannot leave without an answer. Knowing that you are
     sincerely desirous of peace, I do not hesitate to communicate
     this fact to you, in hope that you may accelerate the
     negotiations for the conclusion of an armistice which may
     lead to an honourable peace.

This communication was sent with the approval of the Cabinet. The nature of the reply is not
known. Probably it was not encouraging; for on the next day (January 23) the British Admiralty
ordered Admiral Hornby with the Mediterranean fleet to steam up the Dardanelles to Constantinople.
On the following day this was annulled, and the Admiral was directed not to proceed beyond
Besika Bay[157]. The original order was the cause of the resignation of Lord Carnarvon. The
retirement of Lord Derby was also announced, but he afterwards withdrew it, probably on condition
that the fleet did not enter the Sea of Marmora. Disraeli once said in his whimsical way that
there were six parties in the Ministry. The first party wanted immediate war with Russia; the
second was for war in order to save Constantinople; the third was for peace at any price; the
fourth would let the Russians take Constantinople and then turn them out; the fifth wanted
to plant the cross on the dome of St. Sofia; "and then there are the Prime Minister and the
Chancellor of the Exchequer, who desire to see something done, but don't know exactly what[158]."
The coupling of himself with the amiable Sir Stafford Northcote is a good instance of Disraelian
irony. It is fairly certain that he was for war with Russia; that Lord Carnarvon constituted
the third party, and Lord Derby the fourth.

[Footnote 158: Ibid. pp. 105-106. For the telegrams between the First Lord of the Admiralty,
W.H. Smith, and Admiral Hornby, see Life and Times of W.H. Smith, by Sir H. Maxwell, vol. i.
chap. xi.]

On the day after the resignation of Lord Carnarvon, the British Cabinet heard for the first
time what were the demands of Russia. They included the formation of a Greater Bulgaria, "within
the limits of the Bulgarian nationality," practically independent of the Sultan's direct control;
the entire independence of Roumania, Servia, and Montenegro; a territorial and pecuniary indemnity
to Russia for the expenses of the war; and "an ulterior understanding for safeguarding the
rights and interests of Russia in the Straits."

The extension of Bulgaria to the shores of the Aegean seemed at that time a mighty triumph
for Russian influence; but it was the last item, vaguely foreshadowing the extension of Russian
influence to the Dardanelles, that most aroused the alarm of the British Cabinet. Russian control
of those straits would certainly have endangered Britain's connections with India by way of
the Suez Canal, seeing that we then had no foothold in Egypt. Accordingly, on January 28, the
Ministry proposed to Parliament the voting of an additional sum of £6,000,000 towards increasing
the armaments of the country. At once there arose strong protests against this proposal, especially
from the districts then suffering from the prolonged depression of trade. The outcry was very
natural; but none the less it can scarcely be justified in view of the magnitude of the British
interests then at stake. Granted that the views of the Czar were pacific, those of his generals
at the seat of war were very much open to question[159]. The long coveted prize of Constantinople,
or the Dardanelles, was likely to tempt them to disregard official orders from St. Petersburg,
unless they knew that any imprudent step would bring on a European war. In any case, the vote
of £6,000,000 was a precautionary measure; and it probably had the effect of giving pause to
the enthusiasts at the Russian headquarters.

[Footnote 159: See the compromising revelations made by an anonymous Russian writer in the
Revue de Paris for July 15, 1897. The authoress, "O.K.," in her book, The Friends and Foes
of Russia (pp. 240-241), states that only the autocracy could have stayed the Russian advance
on Constantinople. General U.S. Grant told her that if he had had such an order, he would have
put it in his pocket and produced it again when in Constantinople.]

The preliminary bases of peace between Russia and Turkey were signed at Adrianople (Jan. 31)
on the terms summarised above, except that the Czar's Ministers now withdrew the obnoxious
clause about the Straits. A line of demarcation was also agreed on between the hostile forces;
it passed from Derkos, a lake near the Black Sea, to the north of Constantinople, in a southerly
direction by the banks of the Karasou stream as far as the Sea of Marmora. This gave to the
Russians the lines of Tchekmedje, the chief natural defence of Constantinople, and they occupied
this position on February 6. This fact was reported by Mr. Layard, Sir Henry Elliot's successor
at Constantinople, in alarmist terms, and it had the effect of stilling the opposition at Westminster
to the vote of credit. Though official assurances of a reassuring kind came from Prince Gortchakoff
at St. Petersburg, the British Ministry on February 7 ordered a part of the Mediterranean fleet
to enter the Sea of Marmora for the defence of British interests and the protection of British
subjects at Constantinople. The Czar's Government thereupon declared that if the British fleet
steamed up the Bosporus, Russian troops would enter Constantinople for the protection of the
Christian population.

This rivalry in philanthropic zeal was not pushed to its logical issue, war. The British fleet
stopped short of the Bosporus, but within sight of the Russian lines. True, these were pushed
eastwards slightly beyond the limits agreed on with the Turks; but an arrangement was arrived
at between Lord Derby and Prince Gortchakoff (Feb. 19) that the Russians would not occupy the
lines of Bulair close to Constantinople, or the Peninsula of Gallipoli commanding the Dardanelles,
provided that British forces were not landed in that important strait[160]. So matters rested,
both sides regarding each other with the sullenness of impotent wrath. As Bismarck said, a
war would have been a fight between an elephant and a whale.

[Footnote 160: Hertslet, iv. p. 2670.]

The situation was further complicated by an invasion of Thessaly by the Greeks (Feb. 3); but
they were withdrawn at once on the urgent remonstrance of the Powers, coupled with a promise
that the claims of Greece would be favourably considered at the general peace[161].

[Footnote 161: L. Sergeant, Greece in the Nineteenth Century (1897), ch. xi.]

In truth, all the racial hatreds, aspirations, and ambitions that had so long been pent up
in the south-east of Europe now seemed on the point of bursting forth and overwhelming civilisation
in a common ruin. Just as the earth's volcanic forces now and again threaten to tear their
way through the crust, so now the immemorial feuds of Moslems and Christians, of Greeks, Servians,
Bulgars, Wallachs, and Turks, promised to desolate the slopes of the Balkans, of Rhodope and
the Pindus, and to spread the lava tide of war over the half of the Continent. The Russians
and Bulgars, swarming over Roumelia, glutted their revenge for past defeats and massacres by
outrages well-nigh as horrible as that of Batak. At once the fierce Moslems of the Rhodope
Mountains rose in self-defence or for vengeance. And while the Russian eagles perforce checked
their flight within sight of Stamboul, the Greeks and Armenians of that capital--nay, the very
occupants of the foreign embassies--trembled at sight of the lust of blood that seized on the
vengeful Ottomans.

Nor was this all. Far away beyond the northern horizon the war cloud hung heavily over the
Carpathians. The statesmen of Vienna, fearing that the terms of their bargain with Russia were
now forgotten in the intoxication of her triumph, determined to compel the victors to lay their
spoils before the Great Powers. In haste the Austrian and Hungarian troops took station on
the great bastion of the Carpathians, and began to exert on the military situation the pressure
which had been so fatal to Russia in her Turkish campaign of 1854.

But though everything betokened war, there were forces that worked slowly but surely for a
pacific settlement. However threatening was the attitude of Russia, her rulers really desired
peace. The war had shown once again the weakness of that Power for offence. Her strength lies
in her boundless plains, in the devotion of her millions of peasants to the Czar, and in the
patient, stubborn strength which is the outcome of long centuries of struggle with the yearly
tyrant, winter. Her weakness lies in the selfishness, frivolity, corruption, and narrowness
of outlook of her governing class--in short, in their incapacity for organisation. Against
the steady resisting power of her peasants the great Napoleon had hurled his legions in vain.
That campaign of 1812 exhibited the strength of Russia for defence. But when, in fallacious
trust in that precedent, she has undertaken great wars far from her base, failure has nearly
always been the result. The pathetic devotion of her peasantry has not made up for the mental
and moral defects of her governing classes. This fact had fixed itself on every competent observer
in 1877. The Emperor Alexander knew it only too well. Now, early in 1878, it was fairly certain
that his army would succumb under the frontal attacks of Turks and British, and the onset of
the Austrians on their rear.

Therefore when, on Feb. 4, the Hapsburg State proposed to refer the terms of peace to a Conference
of the Powers at Vienna, the consent of Russia was almost certain, provided that the prestige
of the Czar remained unimpaired. Three days later the place of meeting was changed to Berlin,
the Conference also becoming a Congress, that is, a meeting where the chief Ministers of the
Powers, not merely their Ambassadors, would take part. The United Kingdom, France, and Italy
at once signified their assent to this proposal. As for Bismarck, he promised in a speech to
the Reichstag (Feb. 19) that he would act as an "honest broker" between the parties most nearly
concerned. There is little doubt that Russia took this in a sense favourable to her claims,
and she, too, consented.

Nevertheless, she sought to tie the hands of the Congress by binding Turkey to a preliminary
treaty signed on March 3 at San Stefano, a village near to Constantinople. The terms comprised
those stated above (p. 225), but they also stipulated the cession of frontier districts to
Servia and Montenegro, while Russia was to acquire the Roumanian districts east of the River
Pruth, Roumania receiving the Dobrudscha as an equivalent. Most serious of all was the erection
of Bulgaria into an almost independent Principality, extending nearly as far south as Midia
(on the Black Sea), Adrianople, Salonica, and beyond Ochrida in Albania. As will be seen by
reference to the map (p. 239), this Principality would then have comprised more than half of
the Balkan Peninsula, besides including districts on the Ægean Sea and around the town of Monastir,
for which the Greeks have never ceased to cherish hopes. A Russian Commissioner was to supervise
the formation of the government for two years; all the fortresses on the Danube were to be
razed, and none others constructed; Turkish forces were required entirely to evacuate the Principality,
which was to be occupied by Russian troops for a space of time not exceeding two years.

On her side, Turkey undertook to grant reforms to the Armenians, and protect them from Kurds
and Circassians, Russia further claimed 1,410,000,000 roubles as war indemnity, but consented
to take the Dobrudscha district (offered to Roumania, as stated above), and in Asia the territories
of Batoum, Kars, Ardahan, and Bayazid, in lieu of 1,100,000,000 roubles. The Porte afterwards
declared that it signed this treaty under persistent pressure from the Grand Duke Nicholas
and General Ignatieff, who again and again declared that otherwise the Russians would advance
on the capital[162].

[Footnote 162: For the text of the treaty see Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 22 (1878); also The
European Concert in the Eastern Question by T.E. Holland, pp. 335-348.]

At once, from all parts of the Balkan Peninsula, there arose a chorus of protests against the
Treaty of San Stefano. The Mohammedans of the proposed State of Bulgaria protested against
subjection to their former helots. The Greeks saw in the treaty the death-blow to their hopes
of gaining the northern coasts of the Aegean and a large part of Central Macedonia. They fulminated
against the Bulgarians as ignorant peasants, whose cause had been taken up recently by Russia
for her own aggrandisement[163]. The Servians were equally indignant. They claimed, and with
justice, that their efforts against the Turks should be rewarded by an increase of territory
which would unite to them their kinsfolk in Macedonia and part of Bosnia, and place them on
an equality with the upstart State of Bulgaria. Whereas the treaty assigned to these protégés
of Russia districts inhabited solely by Servians, thereby barring the way to any extension
of that Principality.

[Footnote 163: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 31 (1878), Nos. 6-17, and enclosures; L'Hellénisme
et la Macédonie, by N. Kasasis (Paris, 1904); L. Sergeant, op. cit. ch. xii.]

Still more urgent was the protest of the Roumanian Government. In return for the priceless
services rendered by his troops at Plevna, Prince Charles and his Ministers were kept in the
dark as to the terms arranged between Russia and Turkey. The Czar sent General Ignatieff to
prepare the Prince for the news, and sought to mollify him by the hint that he might become
also Prince of Bulgaria--a suggestion which was scornfully waved aside. The Government at Bukharest
first learnt the full truth as to the Bessarabia-Dobrudscha exchange from the columns of the
Journal du St. Pétersbourg, which proved that the much-prized Bessarabian territory was to
be bargained away by the Power which had solemnly undertaken to uphold the integrity of the
Principality. The Prince, the Cabinet, and the people unanimously inveighed against this proposal.
On Feb. 4 the Roumanian Chamber of Deputies declared that Roumania would defend its territory
to the last, by armed force if necessary; but it soon appeared that none of the Powers took
any interest in the matter, and, thanks to the prudence of Prince Charles, the proud little
nation gradually schooled itself to accept the inevitable[164].

[Footnote 164: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 30 (1878); also Reminiscences of the King of Roumania,
chs. x. xi.]

The peace of Europe now turned on the question whether the Treaty of San Stefano would be submitted
as a whole to the Congress of the Powers at Berlin; England claimed that it must be so submitted.
This contention, in its extreme form, found no support from any of the Powers, not even from
Austria, and it met with firm opposition from Russia. She, however, assured the Viennese Court
that the Congress would decide which of the San Stefano terms affected the interests of Europe
and would pronounce on them. The Beaconsfield Cabinet later on affirmed that "every article
in the treaty between Russia and Turkey will be placed before the Congress--not necessarily
for acceptance, but in order that it may be considered what articles require acceptance or
concurrence by the several Powers and what do not[165]."

[Footnote 165: Lord Derby to Sir H. Elliot, March 13, 1878. Turkey, No. xxiv. (1878), No 9, p. 5.]

When this much was conceded, there remained no irreconcilable difference, unless the treaty
contained secret articles which Russia claimed to keep back from the Congress. As far as we
know, there were none. But the fact is that the dispute, small as it now appears to us, was
intensified by the suspicions and resentment prevalent on both sides. The final decision of
the St. Petersburg Government was couched in somewhat curt and threatening terms: "It leaves
to the other Powers the liberty of raising such questions at the Congress as they may think
it fit to discuss, and reserves to itself the liberty of accepting, or not accepting, the discussion
of these questions[166]."

[Footnote 166: Ibid. No. 15, p. 7.]

This haughty reply, received at Downing Street on March 27, again brought the two States to
the verge of war. Lord Beaconsfield, and all his colleagues but one, determined to make immediate
preparations for the outbreak of hostilities; while Lord Derby, clinging to the belief that
peace would best be preserved by ordinary negotiations, resigned the portfolio for foreign
affairs (March 28); two days later he was succeeded by the Marquis of Salisbury[167]. On April
1 the Prime Minister gave notice of motion that the reserves of the army and militia should
be called out; and on the morrow Lord Salisbury published a note for despatch to foreign courts
summarising the grounds of British opposition to the Treaty of San Stefano, and to Russia's
contentions respecting the Congress.

[Footnote 167: See p. 243 for Lord Derby's further reason for resigning.]

Events took a still more threatening turn fifteen days later, when the Government ordered eight
Indian regiments, along with two batteries of artillery, to proceed at once to Malta. The measure
aroused strong differences of opinion, some seeing in it a masterly stroke which revealed the
greatness of Britain's resources, while the more nervous of the Liberal watch-dogs bayed forth
their fears that it was the beginning of a Strafford-like plot for undermining the liberties
of England.

So sharp were the differences of opinion in England, that Russia would perhaps have disregarded
the threats of the Beaconsfield Ministry had she not been face to face with a hostile Austria.
The great aim of the Czar's government was to win over the Dual Monarchy by offering a share
of the spoils of Turkey. Accordingly, General Ignatieff went on a mission to the continental
courts, especially to that of Vienna, and there is little doubt that he offered Bosnia to the
Hapsburg Power. That was the least which Francis Joseph and Count Andrassy had the right to
expect, for the secret compact made before the war promised them as much. In view of the enormous
strides contemplated by Russia, they now asked for certain rights in connection with Servia
and Montenegro, and commercial privileges that would open a way to Salonica[168]. But Russia's
aims, as expressed at San Stefano, clearly were to dominate the Greater Bulgaria there foreshadowed,
which would probably shut out Austria from political and commercial influence over the regions
north of Salonica. Ignatieff's effort to gain over Austria therefore failed; and it was doubtless
Lord Beaconsfield's confidence in the certainty of Hapsburg support in case of war that prompted
his defiance alike of Russia and of the Liberal party at home.

[Footnote 168: Débidour, Hist. diplomatique de l'Europe, vol. ii. p. 515.]

The Czar's Government also was well aware of the peril of arousing a European war. Nihilism
lifted its head threateningly at home; and the Russian troops before Constantinople were dying
like flies in autumn. The outrages committed by them and the Bulgarians on the Moslems of Roumelia
had, as we have seen, led to a revolt in the district of Mount Rhodope; and there was talk
in some quarters of making a desperate effort to cut off the invaders from the Danube[169].
The discontent of the Roumanians might have been worked upon so as still further to endanger
the Russian communications. Probably the knowledge of these plans and of the warlike preparations
of Great Britain induced the Russian Government to moderate its tone. On April 9 it expressed
a wish that Lord Salisbury would formulate a definite policy.

[Footnote 169: For these outrages, see Parl. Papers, Turkey (1878), Nos. 42 and 45, with numerous
enclosures. The larger plans of the Rhodope insurgents and their abettors at Constantinople
are not fully known. An Englishman, Sinclair, and some other free-lances were concerned in
the affair. The Rhodope district long retained a kind of independence, see Les Événements politiques
en Bulgarie, by A.G. Drandar, Appendix.]

The new Foreign Minister speedily availed himself of this offer; and the cause of peace was
greatly furthered by secret negotiations which he carried on with Count Shuvaloff. The Russian
ambassador in London had throughout bent his great abilities to a pacific solution of the dispute,
and, on finding out the real nature of the British objections to the San Stefano Treaty, he
proceeded to St. Petersburg to persuade the Emperor to accept certain changes. In this he succeeded,
and on his return to London was able to come to an agreement with Lord Salisbury (May 30),
the chief terms of which clearly foreshadowed those finally adopted at Berlin.

In effect they were as follows: The Beaconsfield Cabinet strongly objected to the proposed
wide extension of Bulgaria at the expense of other nationalities, and suggested that the districts
south of the Balkans, which were peopled almost wholly by Bulgarians, should not be wholly
withdrawn from Turkish control, but "should receive a large measure of administrative self-government
. . . with a Christian governor." To these proposals the Russian Government gave a conditional
assent. Lord Salisbury further claimed that the Sultan should have the right "to canton troops
on the frontiers of southern Bulgaria"; and that the militia of that province should be commanded
by officers appointed by the Sultan with the consent of Europe. England also undertook to see
that the cause of the Greeks in Thessaly and Epirus received the attention of all the Powers,
in place of the intervention of Russia alone on their behalf, as specified in the San Stefano
Treaty.

Respecting the cession of Roumanian Bessarabia to Russia, on which the Emperor Alexander had
throughout insisted (see page 205), England expressed "profound regret" at that demand, but
undertook not to dispute it at the Congress. On his side the Emperor Alexander consented to
restore Bayazid in Asia Minor to the Turks, but insisted on the retention of Batoum, Kars,
and Ardahan. Great Britain acceded to this, but hinted that the defence of Turkey in Asia would
thenceforth rest especially upon her--a hint to prepare Russia for the Cyprus Convention.

For at this same time the Beaconsfield Cabinet had been treating secretly with the Sublime
Porte. When Lord Salisbury found out that Russia would not abate her demands for Batoum, Ardahan,
and Kars, he sought to safeguard British interests in the Levant by acquiring complete control
over the island of Cyprus. His final instructions to Mr. Layard to that effect were telegraphed
on May 30, that is, on the very day on which peace with Russia was practically assured[170].
The Porte, unaware of the fact that there was little fear of the renewal of hostilities, agreed
to the secret Cyprus Convention on June 4; while Russia, knowing little or nothing as to Britain's
arrangement with the Porte, acceded to the final arrangements for the discussion of Turkish
affairs at Berlin. It is not surprising that this manner of doing business aroused great irritation
both at St. Petersburg and Constantinople. Count Shuvaloff's behaviour at the Berlin Congress
when the news came out proclaimed to the world that he considered himself tricked by Lord Beaconsfield;
while that statesman disdainfully sipped nectar of delight that rarely comes to the lips even
of the gods of diplomacy.

[Footnote 170: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 36 (1878). See, too, ibid. No. 43.]

The terms of the Cyprus Convention were to the effect that, if Russia retained the three districts
in Asia Minor named above, or any of them (as it was perfectly certain that she would); or
if she sought to take possession of any further Turkish territory in Asia Minor, Great Britain
would help the Sultan by force of arms. He, on his side assigned to Great Britain the island
of Cyprus, to be occupied and administered by her. He further promised "to introduce necessary
reforms, to be agreed upon later between the two Powers, into the government, and for the protection
of the Christian and other subjects of the Porte in these territories." On July I Britain also
covenanted to pay to the Porte the surplus of revenue over expenditure in Cyprus, calculated
upon the average of the last five years, and to restore Cyprus to Turkey if Russia gave up
Kars and her other acquisitions[171].

[Footnote 171: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 36 (1878); Hertslet, vol. iv. pp. 2722-2725; Holland,
op. cit., pp. 354-356.]

Fortified by the secret understanding with Russia, and by the equally secret compact with Turkey,
the British Government could enter the Congress of the Powers at Berlin with complete equanimity.
It is true that news as to the agreement with Russia came out in a London newspaper which at
once published a general description of the Anglo-Russian agreement of May 30; and when the
correctness of the news was stoutly denied by Ministers, the original deed was given to the
world by the same newspaper on June 14; but again vigorous disclaimers and denials were given
from the ministerial bench in Parliament[172]. Thus, when Lords Beaconsfield and Salisbury
proceeded to Berlin for the opening of the Congress (June 13), they were believed to hold the
destinies of the British Empire in their hands, and the world waited with bated breath for
the scraps of news that came from that centre of diplomacy.

[Footnote 172: Mr. Charles Marvin, a clerk in the Foreign Office, was charged with this offence,
but the prosecution failed (July 16) owing to lack of sufficient evidence.]

On various details there arose sharp differences which the tactful humour of the German Chancellor
could scarcely set at rest. The fate of nations seemed to waver in the balance when Prince
Gortchakoff gathered up his maps and threatened to hurry from the room, or when Lord Beaconsfield
gave pressing orders for a special train to take him back to Calais; but there seemed good
grounds for regarding these incidents rather as illustrative of character, or of the electioneering
needs of a sensational age, than as throes in the birth of nationalities. The "Peace with honour,"
which the Prime Minister on his return announced at Charing Cross to an admiring crowd, had
virtually been secured at Downing Street before the end of May respecting all the great points
in dispute between England and Russia.

We know little about the inner history of the Congress of Berlin, which is very different from
the official Protocols that half reveal and half conceal its debates. One fact and one incident
claim attention as serving to throw curious sidelights on policy and character respectively.
The Emperor William had been shot at and severely wounded by a socialist fanatic, Dr. Nobiling,
on June 2, 1878, and during the whole time of the Congress the Crown Prince Frederick acted
as regent of the Empire. Limited as his powers were by law, etiquette, and Bismarck, he is
said to have used them on behalf of Austria and England. The old Emperor thought so; for in
a moment of confiding indiscretion he hinted to the Princess Radziwill (a Russian by birth)
that Russian interests would have fared better at Berlin had he then been steering the ship
of State[173]. Possibly this explains why Bismarck always maintained that he had done what
he could for his Eastern neighbour, and that he really deserved a Russian decoration for his
services during the Congress.

[Footnote 173: Princess Radziwill, My Recollections (Eng. ed. 1900), p. 91.]

The incident, which flashes a search-light into character and discloses the recherché joys
of statecraft, is also described in the sprightly Memoirs of Princess Radziwill. She was present
at a brilliant reception held on the evening of the day when the Cyprus Convention had come
to light. Diplomatists and generals were buzzing eagerly and angrily when the Earl of Beaconsfield
appeared. A slight hush came over the wasp-like clusters as he made his way among them, noting
everything with his restless, inscrutable eyes. At last he came near the Princess, once a bitter
enemy, but now captivated and captured by his powers of polite irony. "What are you thinking
of," she asked. "I am not thinking at all," he replied, "I am enjoying myself[174]." After
that one can understand why Jew-baiting became a favourite sport in Russia throughout the next
two decades.

[Footnote 174: Ibid. p. 149.]

We turn now to note the terms of the Treaty of Berlin (July 13, 1878)[175]. The importance
of this compact will be seen if its provisions are compared with those of the Treaty of San
Stefano, which it replaced. Instead of the greater Bulgaria subjected for two years to Russian
control, the Congress ordained that Bulgaria proper should not extend beyond the main chain
of the Balkans, thus reducing its extent from 163,000 square kilometres to 64,000, and its
population from four millions to a million and a half. The period of military occupation and
supervision of the new administration by Russia was reduced to nine months. At the end of that
time, and on the completion of the "organic law," a Prince was to be elected "freely" by the
population of the Principality. The new State remained under the suzerainty of Turkey, the
Sultan confirming the election of the new Prince of Bulgaria, "with the assent of the Powers."

[Footnote 175: For the Protocols, see Parl. Papers, Turkey (1878), No. 39. For the Treaty see
ibid. No. 44; also The European Concert in the Eastern Question, by T.E. Holland, pp. 277-307.]

Another important departure from the San Stefano terms was the creation of the Province of
Eastern Roumelia, with boundaries shown in the accompanying map. As will be shown in the next
chapter, this anomalous state of things passed away in 1885, when the province threw off Turkish
control and joined Bulgaria.

The other Christian States of the Balkans underwent changes of the highest importance. Montenegro
lost half of her expected gains, but secured access to the sea at Antivari. The acquisitions
of Servia were now effected at the expense of Bulgaria. These decisions were greatly in favour
of Austria. To that Power the occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was now entrusted for an
indefinite period in the interest of the peace of Europe, and she proceeded forthwith to drive
a wedge between the Serbs of Servia and Montenegro. It is needless to say that, in spite of
the armed opposition of the Mohammedan people of those provinces--which led to severe fighting
in July to September of that year--Austria's occupation has been permanent, though nominally
they still form part of the Turkish Empire.

Roumania and Servia gained complete independence and ceased to pay tribute to the Sultan, but
both States complained of the lack of support accorded to them by Russia, considering the magnitude
of their efforts for the Slavonic cause. Roumania certainly fared very badly at the hands of
the Power for which it had done yeoman service in the war. The pride of the Roumanian people
brooked no thought of accepting the Dobrudscha, a district in great part marshy and thinly
populated, as an exchange for a fertile district peopled by their kith and kin. They let the
world know that Russia appropriated their Bessarabian district by force, and that they accepted
the Dobrudscha as a war indemnity. By dint of pressure exerted at the Congress their envoys
secured a southern extension of its borders at the expense of Bulgaria, a proceeding which
aroused the resentment of Russia.

The conduct of the Czar's Government in this whole matter was most impolitic. It embittered
the relations between the two States and drove the Government of Prince Charles to rely on
Austria and the Triple Alliance. That is to say, Russia herself closed the door which had been
so readily opened for her into the heart of the Sultan's dominions in 1828, 1854, and 1877[176].
We may here remark that, on the motion of the French plenipotentiaries at the Congress, that
body insisted that Jews must be admitted to the franchise in Roumania. This behest of the Powers
aroused violent opposition in that State, but was finally, though by no means fully, carried out.

[Footnote 176: Frederick, Crown Prince of Germany, expressed the general opinion in a letter
written to Prince Charles after the Berlin Congress: "Russia's conduct, after the manful service
you did for that colossal Empire, meets with censure on all sides." (Reminiscences of the King
of Roumania, p. 325).]

Another Christian State of the Peninsula received scant consideration at the Congress. Greece,
as we have seen, had recalled her troops from Thessaly on the understanding that her claims
should be duly considered at the general peace. She now pressed those claims; but, apart from
initial encouragement given by Lord Salisbury, she received little or no support. On the motion
of the French plenipotentiary, M. Waddington, her desire to control the northern shores of
the Aegean and the island of Crete was speedily set aside; but he sought to win for her practically
the whole of Thessaly and Epirus. This, however, was firmly opposed by Lord Beaconsfield, who
objected to the cession to her of the southern and purely Greek districts of Thessaly and Epirus.
He protested against the notion that the plenipotentiaries had come to Berlin in order to partition
"a worn-out State" (Turkey). They were there to "strengthen an ancient Empire--essential to
the maintenance of peace."

"As for Greece," he said, "States, like individuals, which have a future are in a position
to be able to wait." True, he ended by expressing "the hope and even the conviction" that the
Sultan would accept an equitable solution of the question of the Thessalian frontier; but the
Congress acted on the other sage dictum and proceeded to subject the Hellenes to the educative
influences of hope deferred. Protocol 13 had recorded the opinion of the Powers that the northern
frontier of Greece should follow the courses of the Rivers Salammaria and Kalamas; but they
finally decided to offer their mediation to the disputants only in case no agreement could
be framed. The Sublime Porte, as we shall see, improved on the procrastinating methods of the
Nestors of European diplomacy[177].

[Footnote 177: See Mr. L. Sergeant's Greece in the Nineteenth Century (1897), ch. xii., for
the speeches of the Greek envoys at the Congress; also that of Sir Charles Dilke in the House
of Commons in the debate of July 29-August 2, 1878, as to England's desertion of the Greek
cause after the ninth session (June 29) of the Berlin Congress.]

As regards matters that directly concerned Turkey and Russia, we may note that the latter finally
agreed to forego the acquisition of the Bayazid district and the lands adjoining the caravan
route from the Shah's dominions to Erzeroum. The Czar's Government also promised that Batoum
should be a free port, and left unchanged the regulations respecting the navigation of the
Dardanelles and Bosporus. By a subsequent treaty with Turkey of February 1879 the Porte agreed
to pay to Russia a war indemnity of about £32,000,000.

More important from our standpoint are the clauses relating to the good government of the Christians
of Turkey. By article 61 of the Treaty of Berlin the Porte bound itself to carry out "the improvements
and reforms demanded by local requirements in the provinces inhabited by the Armenians, and
to guarantee their security against the Circassians and Kurds." It even added the promise "periodically"
to "make known the steps taken to this effect to the Powers who will superintend their application."
In the next article Turkey promised to "maintain" the principle of religious liberty and to
give it the widest application. Differences of religion were to be no bar to employment in
any public capacity, and all persons were to "be admitted, without distinction of religion,
to give evidence before the tribunals."

Such was the Treaty of Berlin (July 13, 1878). Viewed in its broad outlines, it aimed at piecing
together again the Turkish districts which had been severed at San Stefano; the Bulgars and
Serbs who there gained the hope of effecting a real union of those races were now sundered
once more, the former in three divisions; while the Serbs of Servia, Bosnia, and Montenegro
were wedged apart by the intrusion of the Hapsburg Power. Yet, imperfect though it was in several
points, that treaty promised substantial gains for the Christians of Turkey. The collapse of
the Sultan's power had been so complete, so notorious, that few persons believed he would ever
dare to disregard the mandate of the Great Powers and his own solemn promises stated above.
But no one could then foresee the exhibition of weakness and cynicism in the policy of those
Powers towards Turkey, which disgraced the polity of Europe in the last decades of the century.
The causes that brought about that state of mental torpor in the face of hideous massacres,
and of moral weakness displayed by sovereigns and statesmen in the midst of their millions
of armed men, will be to some extent set forth in the following chapters.

As regards the welfare of the Christians in Asia Minor, the Treaty of Berlin assigned equal
responsibilities to all the signatory Powers. But the British Government had already laid itself
under a special charge on their behalf by the terms of the Cyprus Convention quoted above.
Five days before that treaty was signed the world heard with a gasp of surprise that England
had become practically mistress of Cyprus and assumed some measure of responsibility for the
good government of the Christians of Asiatic Turkey. No limit of time was assigned for the
duration of the Convention, and apparently it still holds good so far as relates to the material
advantages accruing from the possession of that island.

It is needless to say that the Cypriotes have benefited greatly by the British administration;
the value of the imports and exports nearly doubled between 1878 and 1888. But this fact does
not and cannot dispose of the larger questions opened up as to the methods of acquisition and
of the moral responsibilities which it entailed. These at once aroused sharp differences of
opinion. Admiration at the skill and daring which had gained for Britain a point of vantage
in the Levant and set back Russia's prestige in that quarter was chequered by protests against
the methods of secrecy, sensationalism, and self-seeking that latterly had characterised British
diplomacy.

One more surprise was still forthcoming. Lord Derby, speaking in the House of Lords on July
18, gave point to these protests by divulging a State secret of no small importance, namely,
that one of the causes of his retirement at the end of March was a secret proposal of the Ministry
to send an expedition from India to seize Cyprus and one of the Syrian ports with a view to
operations against Russia, and that, too, with or without the consent of the Sultan. Whether
the Cabinet arrived at anything like a decision in this question is very doubtful. Lord Salisbury
stoutly denied the correctness of his predecessor's statement. The papers of Sir Stafford Northcote
also show that the scheme at that time came up for discussion, but was "laid aside[178]." Lord
Derby, however, stated that he had kept private notes of the discussion; and it is improbable
that he would have resigned on a question that was merely mooted and entirely dismissed. The
mystery in which the deliberations of the Cabinet are involved, and very rightly involved,
broods over this as over so many topics in which Lord Beaconsfield was concerned.

[Footnote 178: Sir Stafford Northcote, vol. ii. p. 108.]

On another and far weightier point no difference of opinion is possible. Viewed by the light
of the Cyprus Convention, Britain's responsibility for assuring a minimum of good government
for the Christians of Asiatic Turkey is undeniable. Unfortunately it admits of no denial that
the duties which that responsibility involves have not been discharged. The story of the misgovernment
and massacre of the Armenian Christians is one that will ever redound to the disgrace of all
the signatories of the Treaty of Berlin; it is doubly disgraceful to the Power which framed
the Cyprus Convention.

A praiseworthy effort was made by the Beaconsfield Government to strengthen British influence
and the cause of reform by sending a considerable number of well-educated men as Consuls to
Asia Minor, under the supervision of the Consul-General, Sir Charles Wilson. In the first two
years they effected much good, securing the dismissal of several of the worst Turkish officials,
and implanting hope in the oppressed Greeks and Armenians. Had they been well supported from
London, they might have wrought a permanent change. Such, at least, is the belief of Professor
Ramsay after several years' experience in Asia Minor.

Unfortunately, the Gladstone Government, which came into power in the spring of 1880, desired
to limit its responsibilities on all sides, especially in the Levant. The British Consuls ceased
to be supported, and after the arrival of Mr. (now Lord) Goschen at Constantinople in May 1880,
as Ambassador Extraordinary, British influence began to suffer a decline everywhere through
Turkey, partly owing to the events soon to be described. The outbreak of war in Egypt in 1882
was made a pretext by the British Government for the transference of the Consuls to Egypt;
and thereafter matters in Asia Minor slid back into the old ruts. The progress of the Greeks
and Armenians, the traders of that land, suffered a check; and the remarkable Moslem revival
which the Sultan inaugurated in that year (the year 1300 of the Mohammedan calendar) gradually
led up to the troubles and massacres which culminated in the years 1896 and 1897. We may finally
note that when the Gladstone Ministry left the field open in Asia Minor, the German Government
promptly took possession; and since 1883 the influence of Berlin has more and more penetrated
into the Sultan's lands in Europe and Asia[179].

[Footnote 179: See Impressions of Turkey, by Professor W.M. Ramsay (1897), chap. vi.]

The collapse of British influence at Constantinople was hastened on by the efforts made by
the Cabinet of London, after Mr. Gladstone's accession to office, on behalf of Greece. It soon
appeared that Abdul Hamid and his Ministers would pay no heed to the recommendations of the
Great Powers on this head, for on July 20, 1878, they informed Sir Henry Layard of their "final"
decision that no Thessalian districts would be given up to Greece. Owing to pressure exerted
by the Dufaure-Waddington Ministry in France, the Powers decided that a European Commission
should be appointed to consider the whole question. To this the Beaconsfield Government gave
a not very willing assent.

The Porte bettered the example. It took care to name as the first place of meeting of the Commissioners
a village to the north of the Gulf of Arta which was not discoverable on any map. When at last
this mistake was rectified, and the Greek envoys on two occasions sought to steam into the
gulf, they were fired on from the Turkish forts. After these amenities, the Commission finally
met at Prevesa, only to have its report shelved by the Porte (January-March 1879). Next, in
answer to a French demand for European intervention, the Turks opposed various devices taken
from the inexhaustible stock of oriental subterfuges. So the time wore on until, in the spring
of 1880, the fall of the Beaconsfield Ministry brought about a new political situation.

The new Prime Minister, Mr. Gladstone, was known as the statesman who had given the Ionian
Isles to Greece, and who advocated the expulsion of the Turks, "bag and baggage," from Europe.
At once the despatches from Downing Street took on a different complexion, and the substitution
of Mr. Goschen for Sir Henry Layard at Constantinople enabled the Porte to hear the voice of
the British people, undimmed by official checks. A Conference of the Powers met at Berlin to
discuss the carrying out of their recommendations on the Greek Question, and of the terms of
the late treaty respecting Montenegro.

On this latter affair the Powers finally found it needful to make a joint naval demonstration
against the troops of the Albanian League who sought to prevent the handing over of the seaport
of Dulcigno to Montenegro, as prescribed by the Treaty of Berlin. But, as happened during the
Concert of the Powers in the spring of 1876, a single discordant note sufficed to impair the
effect of the collective voice. Then it was England which refused to employ any coercive measures;
now it was Austria and Germany, and finally (after the resignation of the Waddington Ministry)
France. When the Sultan heard of this discord in the European Concert, his Moslem scruples
resumed their wonted sway, and the Albanians persisted in defying Europe.

The warships of the Powers might have continued to threaten the Albanian coast with unshotted
cannon to this day, had not the Gladstone Cabinet proposed drastic means for bringing the Sultan
to reason. The plan was that the united fleet should steam straightway to Smyrna and land marines
for the sequestration of the customs' dues of that important trading centre. Here again the
Powers were not of one mind. The three dissentients again hung back; but they so far concealed
their refusal, or reluctance, as to leave on Abdul Hamid's mind the impression that a united
Christendom was about to seize Smyrna[180]. This was enough. He could now (October 10, 1880)
bow his head resignedly before superior force without sinning against the Moslem's unwritten
but inviolable creed of never giving way before Christians save under absolute necessity. At
once he ordered his troops to carry out the behests of the Powers; and after some fighting,
Dervish Pasha drove the Albanians out of Dulcigno, and surrendered it to the Montenegrins (Nov.-Dec.
1880). Such is the official account; but, seeing that the Porte knows how to turn to account
the fanaticism and turbulence of the Albanians[181], it may be that their resistance all along
was but a device of that resourceful Government to thwart the will of Europe.

[Footnote 180: Life of Gladstone, by J. Morley, vol. iii. p. 9.]

[Footnote 181: See Turkey in Europe, by "Odysseus," p. 434.]

The same threat as to the seizure of the Turkish customs-house at Smyrna sufficed to help on
the solution of the Greek Question. The delays and insults of the Turks had driven the Greeks
to desperation, and only the urgent remonstrances of the Powers availed to hold back the Cabinet
of Athens from a declaration of war. This danger by degrees passed away; but, as usually happens
where passions are excited on both sides, every compromise pressed on the litigants by the
arbiters presented great difficulty. The Congress of Berlin had recommended the extension of
Greek rule over the purely Hellenic districts of Thessaly, assigning as the new boundaries
the course of the Rivers Salammaria and Kalamas, the latter of which flows into the sea opposite
the Island of Corfu.

Another Conference of the Powers (it was the third) met to decide the details of that proposal;
but owing to the change of Government in France, along with other causes, the whole question
proved to be very intricate. In the end, the Powers induced the Sultan to sign the Convention
of May 24, 1881, whereby the course of the River Arta was substituted for that of the Kalamas.

As a set-off to this proposal, which involved the loss of Jannina and Prevesa for Greece, they
awarded to the Hellenes some districts north of the Salammaria which helped partially to screen
the town of Larissa from the danger of Turkish inroads[182]. To this arrangement Moslems and
Christians sullenly assented. On the whole the Greeks gained 13,200 square kilometres in territory
and about 150,000 inhabitants, but their failure to gain several Hellenic districts of Epirus
rankled deep in the popular consciousness and prepared the way for the events of 1885 and 1897.

[Footnote 182: The European Concert in the Eastern Question, by T.E. Holland, pp. 60-69.]

These later developments can receive here only the briefest reference. In the former year,
when the two Bulgarias framed their union, the Greeks threatened Turkey with war, but were
speedily brought to another frame of mind by a "pacific" blockade by the Powers. Embittered
by this treatment, the Hellenes sought to push on their cause in Macedonia and Crete through
a powerful Society, the "Ethnike Hetairia." The chronic discontent of the Cretans at Turkish
misrule and the outrages of the Moslem troops led to grave complications in 1897. At the beginning
of that year the Powers intervened with a proposal for the appointment of a foreign gendarmerie
(January 1897). In order to defeat this plan the Sultan stirred up Moslem fanaticism in the
island, until the resulting atrocities brought Greece into the field both in Thessaly and Crete.
During the ensuing strifes in Crete the Powers demeaned themselves by siding against the Christian
insurgents, and some Greek troops sent from Athens to their aid. Few events in our age have
caused a more painful sensation than the bombardment of Cretan villages by British and French
warships. The Powers also proclaimed a "pacific" blockade of Crete (March-May 1897). The inner
reasons that prompted these actions are not fully known. It may safely be said that they will
need far fuller justification than that which was given in the explanations of Ministers at
Westminster.

Meanwhile the passionate resentment felt by the Greeks had dragged the Government of King George
into war with Turkey (April 18, 1897). The little kingdom was speedily overpowered by Turks
and Albanians; and despite the recall of their troops from Crete, the Hellenes were unable
to hold Phersala and other positions in the middle of Thessaly. The Powers, however, intervened
on May 12, and proceeded to pare down the exorbitant terms of the Porte, allowing it to gain
only small strips in the north of Thessaly, as a "strategic rectification" of the frontier.
The Turkish demand of £T10,000,000 was reduced to T4,000,000 (September 18).

This successful war against Greece raised the prestige of Turkey and added fuel to the flames
of Mohammedan bigotry. These, as we have seen, had been assiduously fanned by Abdul Hamid II.
ever since the year 1882, when a Pan-Islam movement began. The results of this revival were
far-reaching, being felt even among the hill tribes on the Afghan-Punjab border (see Chapter
XIV.). Throughout the Ottoman Empire the Mohammedans began to assert their superiority over
Christians; and, as Professor Ramsay has observed, "the means whereby Turkish power is restored
is always the same--massacre[183]."

[Footnote 183: Impressions of Turkey, by W.M. Ramsay, p. 139.]

It would be premature to inquire which of the European Powers must be held chiefly responsible
for the toleration of the hideous massacres of the Armenians in 1896-97, and the atrocious
misgovernment of Macedonia, by the Turks. All the Great Powers who signed the Berlin Treaty
are guilty; and, as has been stated above, the State which framed the Cyprus Convention is
doubly guilty, so far as concerns the events in Armenia. A grave share of responsibility also
rests with those who succeeded in handing back a large part of Macedonia to the Turks. But
the writer who in the future undertakes to tell the story of the decline of European morality
at the close of the nineteenth century, and the growth of cynicism and selfishness, will probably
pass still severer censures on the Emperors of Germany and Russia, who, with the unequalled
influence which they wielded over the Porte, might have intervened with effect to screen their
co-religionists from unutterable wrongs, and yet, as far as is known, raised not a finger on
their behalf. The Treaty of Berlin, which might have inaugurated an era of good government
throughout the whole of Turkey if the Powers had been true to their trust, will be cited as
damning evidence in the account of the greatest betrayal of a trust which Modern History records.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.--For the efforts made by the British Government on behalf of the Armenians, the reader
should consult the last chapter of Mr. James Bryce's book, Transcaucasia and Mount Ararat (new
edition, 1896). Further information may be expected in the Life of Earl Granville, soon to
appear, from the pen of Lord Edmund Fitzmaurice.

CHAPTER X

THE MAKING OF BULGARIA

     "If you can help to build up these peoples into a bulwark of
     independent States and thus screen the 'sick man' from the
     fury of the northern blast, for God's sake do it."--SIR R.
     MORIER to SIR W. WHITE, December 27, 1885.

The failure which attended the forward Hellenic movement during the years 1896-97 stands in
sharp relief with the fortunes of the Bulgarians. To the rise of this youngest, and not the
least promising, of European States, we must devote a whole chapter; for during a decade the
future of the Balkan Peninsula and the policy of the Great Powers turned very largely on the
emancipation of this interesting race from the effective control of the Sultan and the Czar.

The rise of this enigmatical people affords a striking example of the power of national feeling
to uplift the downtrodden. Until the year 1876, the very name Bulgarian was scarcely known
except as a geographical term. Kinglake, in his charming work, Eothen, does not mention the
Bulgarians, though he travelled on horseback from Belgrade to Sofia and thence to Adrianople.
And yet in 1828, the conquering march of the Russians to Adrianople had awakened that people
to a passing thrill of national consciousness. Other travellers,--for instance, Cyprien Robert
in the "thirties,"--noted their sturdy patience in toil, their slowness to act, but their great
perseverance and will-power, when the resolve was formed.

These qualities may perhaps be ascribed to their Tatar (Tartar) origin. Ethnically, they are
closely akin to the Magyars and Turks, but, having been long settled on the banks of the Volga
(hence their name, Bulgarian = Volgarian), they adopted the speech and religion of the Slavs.
They have lived this new life for about a thousand years[184]; and in this time have been completely
changed. Though their flat lips and noses bespeak an Asiatic origin, they are practically Slavs,
save that their temperament is less nervous, and their persistence greater than that of their
co-religionists[185]. Their determined adhesion to Slav ideals and rejection of Turkish ways
should serve as a reminder to anthropologists that peoples are not mainly to be judged and
divided off by craniological peculiarities. Measurement of skulls may tell us something concerning
the basal characteristics of tribes: it leaves untouched the boundless fund of beliefs, thoughts,
aspirations, and customs which mould the lives of nations. The peoples of to-day are what their
creeds, customs, and hopes have made them; as regards their political life, they have little
more likeness to their tribal forefathers than the average man has to the chimpanzee.

[Footnote 184: The Peasant State: Bulgaria in 1894, by E. Dicey, C.B. (1904), p. 11.]

[Footnote 185: Turkey in Europe, by "Odysseus," pp. 28, 356, 367.]

The first outstanding event in the recent rise of the Bulgarian race was the acquisition of
spiritual independence in 1869-70. Hitherto they, in common with nearly all the Slavs, had
belonged to the Greek Church, and had recognised the supremacy of its Patriarch at Constantinople,
but, as the national idea progressed, the Bulgarians sought to have their own Church. It was
in vain that the Greeks protested against this schismatic attempt. The Western Powers and Russia
favoured it; the Porte also was not loth to see the Christians further divided. Early in the
year 1870, the Bulgarian Church came into existence, with an Exarch of its own at Constantinople
who has survived the numerous attempts of the Greeks to ban him as a schismatic from the "Universal
Church." The Bulgarians therefore took rank with the other peoples of the Peninsula as a religious
entity., the Roumanian and Servian Churches having been constituted early in the century. In
fact, the Porte recognises the Bulgarians, even in Macedonia, as an independent religious community,
a right which it does not accord to the Servians; the latter, in Macedonia, are counted only
as "Greeks[186]."

[Footnote 186: Turkey in Europe, by "Odysseus," pp. 280-283, 297; The Peasant State, by E.
Dicey, pp. 75-77.]

The Treaty of San Stefano promised to make the Bulgarians the predominant race of the Balkan
Peninsula for the benefit of Russia; but, as we have seen, the efforts of Great Britain and
Austria, backed by the jealousies of Greeks and Servians, led to a radical change in those
arrangements. The Treaty of Berlin divided that people into three unequal parts. The larger
mass, dwelling in Bulgaria Proper, gained entire independence of the Sultan, save in the matter
of suzerainty; the Bulgarians on the southern slopes of the Balkans acquired autonomy only
in local affairs, and remained under the control of the Porte in military affairs and in matters
of high policy; while the Bulgarians who dwelt in Macedonia, about 1,120,000 in number, were
led to hope something from articles 61 and 62 of the Treaty of Berlin, but remained otherwise
at the mercy of the Sultan[187].

[Footnote 187: Récius, Kiepert, Ritter, and other geographers and ethnologists, admit that
the majority in Macedonia is Bulgarian.]

This unsatisfactory state of things promised to range the Principality of Bulgaria entirely
on the side of Russia, and at the outset the hope of all Bulgarians was for a close friendship
with the great Power that had effected their liberation. These sentiments, however, speedily
cooled. The officers appointed by the Czar to organise the Principality carried out their task
in a high-handed way that soon irritated the newly enfranchised people. Gratitude is a feeling
that soon vanishes, especially in political life. There, far more than in private life, it
is a great mistake for the party that has conferred a boon to remind the recipient of what
he owes, especially if that recipient be young and aspiring. Yet that was the mistake committed
everywhere throughout Bulgaria. The army, the public service--everything--was modelled on Russian
lines during the time of the occupation, until the overbearing ways of the officials succeeded
in dulling the memory of the services rendered in the war. The fact of the liberation was forgotten
amidst the irritation aroused by the constant reminders of it.

The Russians succeeded in alienating even the young German prince who came, with the full favour
of the Czar Alexander II., to take up the reins of Government. A scion of the House of Hesse
Darmstadt by a morganatic marriage, Prince Alexander of Battenberg had been sounded by the
Russian authorities, with a view to his acceptance of the Bulgarian crown. By the vote of the
Bulgarian Chamber, it was offered to him on April 29, 1879. He accepted it, knowing full well
that it would be a thorny honour for a youth of twenty-two years of age. His tall commanding
frame, handsome features, ability and prowess as a soldier, and, above all, his winsome address,
seemed to mark him out as a natural leader of men; and he received a warm welcome from the
Bulgarians in the month of July.

His difficulties began at once. The chief Russian administrator, Dondukoff Korsakoff, had thrust
his countrymen into all the important and lucrative posts, thereby leaving out in the cold
the many Bulgarians, who, after working hard for the liberation of their land, now saw it transferred
from the slovenly overlordship of the Turk to the masterful grip of the Muscovite. The Principality
heaved with discontent, and these feelings finally communicated themselves to the sympathetic
nature of the Prince. But duty and policy alike forbade him casting off the Russian influence.
No position could be more trying for a young man of chivalrous and ambitious nature, endowed
with a strain of sensitiveness which he probably derived from his Polish mother. He early set
forth his feelings in a private letter to Prince Charles of Roumania:--

Devoted with my whole heart to the Czar Alexander, I am anxious to do nothing that can be called
anti-Russian. Unfortunately the Russian officials have acted with the utmost want of tact;
confusion prevails in every office, and peculation, thanks to Dondukoff's decrees, is all but
sanctioned. I am daily confronted with the painful alternative of having to decide either to
assent to the Russian demands or to be accused in Russia of ingratitude and of "injuring the
most sacred feelings of the Bulgarians." My position is truly terrible.

The friction with Russia increased with time. Early in the year 1880, Prince Alexander determined
to go to St. Petersburg to appeal to the Czar in the hope of allaying the violence of the Panslavonic
intriguers. Matters improved for a time, but only because the Prince accepted the guidance
of the Czar. Thereafter he retained most of his pro-Russian Ministers, even though the second
Legislative Assembly, elected in the spring of that year, was strongly Liberal and anti-Russian.
In April 1881 he acted on the advice of one of his Ministers, a Russian general named Ehrenroth,
and carried matters with a high hand: he dissolved the Assembly, suspended the constitution,
encouraged his officials to browbeat the voters, and thereby gained a docile Chamber, which
carried out his behests by decreeing a Septennate, or autocratic rule for seven years. In order
to prop up his miniature czardom, he now asked the new Emperor, Alexander III., to send him
two Russian Generals. His request was granted in the persons of Generals Soboleff and Kaulbars,
who became Ministers of the Interior and for War; a third, General Tioharoff, being also added
as Minister of Justice.

The triumph of Muscovite influence now seemed to be complete, until the trio just named usurped
the functions of the Bulgarian Ministers and informed the Prince that they took their orders
from the Czar, not from him. Chafing at these self-imposed Russian bonds, the Prince now leant
more on the moderate Liberals, headed by Karaveloff; and on the Muscovites intriguing in the
same quarter, and with the troops, with a view to his deposition, they met with a complete
repulse. An able and vigorous young Bulgarian, Stambuloff, was now fast rising in importance
among the more resolute nationalists. The son of an innkeeper of Tirnova, he was sent away
to be educated at Odessa; there he early became imbued with Nihilist ideas, and on returning
to the Danubian lands, framed many plots for the expulsion of the Turks from Bulgaria. His
thick-set frame, his force of will, his eloquent, passionate speech, and, above all, his burning
patriotism, soon brought him to the front as the leader of the national party; and he now strove
with all his might to prevent his land falling to the position of a mere satrapy of the liberators.
Better the puny autocracy of Prince Alexander than the very real despotism of the nominees
of the Emperor Alexander III.

The character of the new Czar will engage our attention in the following chapter; here we need
only say that the more his narrow, hard, and overbearing nature asserted itself, the greater
appeared the danger to the liberties of the Principality. At last, when the situation became
unbearable, the Prince resolved to restore the Bulgarian constitution; and he took this momentous
step, on September 18, 1883, without consulting the three Russian Ministers, who thereupon
resigned[188].

[Footnote 188: For the scenes which then occurred, see Le Prince Alexandre de Battenberg en
Bulgarie, by A.G. Drandar, pp. 169 et seq.; also A. Koch, Fürst Alexander von Bulgarien, pp.
144-147.

For the secret aims of Russia, see Documents secrets de la Politique russe en Orient, by R.
Leonoff (Berlin, 1893), pp. 49-65. General Soboleff, Der erste Fürst von Bulgarian (Leipzig,
1896), has given a highly coloured Russian account of all these incidents.]

At once the Prince summoned Karaveloff, and said to him: "My dear Karaveloff--For the second
time I swear to thee that I will be entirely submissive to the will of the people, and that
I will govern in full accordance with the constitution of Tirnova. Let us forget what passed
during the coup d'état [of 1881], and work together for the prosperity of the country." He
embraced him; and that embrace was the pledge of a close union of hearts between him and his
people[189].

[Footnote 189: See Laveleye's The Balkan Peninsula, pp. 259-262, for an account of Karaveloff.]

The Czar forthwith showed his anger at this act of independence, and, counting it a sign of
defiance, allowed or encouraged his agents in Bulgaria to undermine the power of the Prince,
and procure his deposition. For two years they struggled in vain. An attempt by the Russian
Generals Soboleff and Kaulbars to kidnap the Prince by night failed, owing to the loyalty of
Lieutenant Martinoff, then on duty at his palace; the two ministerial plotters forthwith left
Bulgaria[190].

[Footnote 190: J.G.C. Minchin, The Growth of Freedom in the Balkan Peninsula (1886) p. 237.
The author, Consul-General for Servia in London, had earlier contributed many articles to the
Times and Morning Advertiser on Balkan affairs.]

Even now the scales did not fall from the eyes of the Emperor Alexander III. Bismarck was once
questioned by the faithful Busch as to the character of that potentate. The German Boswell
remarked that he had heard Alexander III. described as "stupid, exceedingly stupid"; whereupon
the Chancellor replied: "In a general way that is saying too much[191]." Leaving to posterity
the task of deciding that question, we may here point out that Muscovite policy in the years
1878-85 achieved a truly remarkable feat in uniting all the liberated races of the Balkan Peninsula
against their liberators. By the terms of the Treaty of San Stefano, Russia had alienated the
Roumanians, Servians, and Greeks; so that when the Princes of those two Slav Principalities
decided to take the kingly title (as they did in the spring of 1881 and 1882 respectively),
it was after visits to Berlin and Vienna, whereby they tacitly signified their friendliness
to the Central Powers.

[Footnote 191: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages of his History, by Dr. M. Busch (Note of January
5, 1886), vol. iii. p. 150 (English edition).]

In the case of Servia this went to the length of alliance. On June 25, 1881, the Foreign Minister,
M. Mijatovich, concluded with Austria-Hungary a secret convention, whereby Servia agreed to
discourage any movement among the Slavs of Bosnia, while the Dual Monarchy promised to refrain
from any action detrimental to Servian hopes for what is known as old Servia. The agreement
was for eight years; but it was not renewed in 1889[192]. The fact, however, that such a compact
could be framed within three years of the Berlin Congress, shows how keen was the resentment
of the Servian Government at the neglect of its interests by Russia, both there and at San Stefano.

[Footnote 192: The treaty has not been published; for this general description of it I am indebted
to the kindness of M. Mijatovich himself.]

The gulf between Bulgaria and Russia widened more slowly, but with the striking sequel that
will be seen. The Dondukoffs, Soboleffs, and Kaulbars first awakened and then estranged the
formerly passive and docile race for whose aggrandisement Russia had incurred the resentment
of the neighbouring peoples. Under Muscovite tutelage the "ignorant Bulgarian peasants" were
developing a strong civic and political instinct. Further, the Czar's attacks, now on the Prince,
and then on the popular party, served to bind these formerly discordant elements into an alliance.
Stambuloff, the very embodiment of young Bulgaria in tenacity of purpose and love of freedom,
was now the President of the Sobranje, or National Assembly, and he warmly supported Prince
Alexander so long as he withstood Russian pretensions. At the outset the strifes at Sofia had
resembled a triangular duel, and the Russian agents could readily have disposed of the third
combatant had they sided either with the Prince or with the Liberals. By browbeating both they
simplified the situation to the benefit both of the Prince and of the nascent liberties of
Bulgaria.

Alexander III. and his Chancellor, de Giers, had also tied their hands in Balkan affairs by
a treaty which they framed with Austria and Germany, and signed and ratified at the meeting
of the three Emperors at Skiernewice (September 1884--see Chapter XII.). The most important
of its provisions from our present standpoint was that by which, in the event of two of the
three Empires disagreeing on Balkan questions, the casting vote rested with the third Power.
This gave to Bismarck the same role of arbiter which he had played at the Berlin Congress.

But in the years 1885 and 1886, the Czar and his agents committed a series of blunders, by
the side of which their earlier actions seemed statesmanlike. The welfare of the Bulgarian
people demanded an early reversal of the policy decided on at the Congress of Berlin (1878),
whereby the southern Bulgarians were divided from their northern brethren in order that the
Sultan might have the right to hold the Balkan passes in time of war. That is to say, the Powers,
especially Great Britain and Austria, set aside the claims of a strong racial instinct for
purely military reasons. The breakdown of this artificial arrangement was confidently predicted
at the time; and Russian agents at first took the lead in preparing for the future union. Skobeleff,
Katkoff, and the Panslavonic societies of Russia encouraged the formation of "gymnastic societies"
in Eastern Roumelia, and the youth of that province enrolled themselves with such ardour that
by the year 1885 more than 40,000 were trained to the use of arms. As for the protests of the
Sultan and those of his delegates at Philippopolis, they were stilled by hints from St. Petersburg,
or by demands for the prompt payment of Turkey's war debt to Russia. All the world knew that,
thanks to Russian patronage, Eastern Roumelia had slipped entirely from the control of Abdul Hamid.

By the summer of 1885, the unionist movement had acquired great strength. But now, at the critical
time, when Russia should have led that movement, she let it drift, or even, we may say, cast
off the tow-rope. Probably the Czar and his Ministers looked on the Bulgarians as too weak
or too stupid to act for themselves. It was a complete miscalculation; for now Stambuloff and
Karaveloff had made that aim their own, and brought to its accomplishment all the skill and
zeal which they had learned in a long career of resistance to Turkish and Russian masters.
There is reason to think that they and their coadjutors at Philippopolis pressed on events
in the month of September 1885, because the Czar was then known to disapprove any immediate action.

In order to understand the reason for this strange reversal of Russia's policy, we must scrutinise
events more closely. The secret workings of that policy have been laid bare in a series of
State documents, the genuineness of which is not altogether established. They are said to have
been betrayed to the Bulgarian patriots by a Russian agent, and they certainly bear signs of
authenticity. If we accept them (and up to the present they have been accepted by well-informed
men) the truth is as follows:--

Russia would have worked hard for the union of Eastern Roumelia to Bulgaria, provided that
the Prince abdicated and his people submitted completely to Russian control. Quite early in
his reign Alexander III. discovered in them an independence which his masterful nature ill
brooked. He therefore postponed that scheme until the Prince should abdicate or be driven out.
As one of the Muscovite agents phrased it in the spring of 1881, the union must not be brought
about until a Russian protectorate should be founded in the Principality; for if they made
Bulgaria too strong, it would become "a second Roumania," that is, as "ungrateful" to Russia
as Roumania had shown herself after the seizure of her Bessarabian lands. In fact, the Bulgarians
could gain the wish of their hearts only on one condition--that of proclaiming the Emperor
Alexander Grand Duke of the greater State of the future[193]. This work is named by M. Malet
in his Bibliographie on the Eastern Question on p. 448, vol. ix., of the Histoire Générale
of MM. Lavisse and Rambaud. I have been assured of its genuineness by a gentleman well versed
in the politics of the Balkan States.]

The chief obstacles in the way of Russia's aggrandisement were the susceptibilities of "the
Battenberger," as her agents impertinently named him, and the will of Stambuloff. When the
Czar, by his malevolent obstinacy, finally brought these two men to accord, it was deemed needful
to adopt various devices in order to shatter the forces which Russian diplomacy had succeeded
in piling up in its own path. But here again we are reminded of the Horatian precept--

     Vis consili expers mole ruit sua.

To the hectorings of Russian agents the "peasant State" offered an ever firmer resistance,
and by the summer of 1885 it was clear that bribery and bullying were equally futile.

Of course the Emperor of all the Russias had it in his power to harry the Prince in many ways.
Thus in the summer of 1885, when a marriage was being arranged between him and the Princess
Victoria, daughter of the Crown Princess of Germany, the Czar's influence at Berlin availed
to veto an engagement which is believed to have been the heartfelt wish of both the persons
most nearly concerned. In this matter Bismarck, true to his policy of softening the Czar's
annoyance at the Austro-German alliance by complaisance in all other matters, made himself
Russia's henchman, and urged his press-trumpet, Busch, to write newspaper articles abusing
Queen Victoria as having instigated this match solely with a view to the substitution of British
for Russian influence in Bulgaria[194]. The more servile part of the German Press improved
on these suggestions, and stigmatised the Bulgarian Revolution of the ensuing autumn as an
affair trumped up at London. So far is it possible for minds of a certain type to read their
own pettiness into events.

[Footnote 194: For Bismarck's action and that of the Emperor William I. in 1885, see Bismarck:
Some Secret Pages of his History, by M. Busch, vol. iii. pp. 171, 180, 292, also p. 335. Russian
agents came to Stambuloff in the summer of 1885 to say that "Prince Alexander must be got rid
of before he can ally himself with the German family regnant." Stambuloff informed the Prince
of this. See Stambuloff, by A.H. Beaman, p. 52.]

Meanwhile, if we may credit the despatches above referred to, the Russian Government was seeking
to drag Bulgaria into fratricidal strife with Roumania over some trifling disputes about the
new border near Silistria. That quarrel, if well managed, promised to be materially advantageous
to Russia and mentally soothing to her ruler. It would weaken the Danubian States and help
to bring them back to the heel of their former protector. Further, seeing that the behaviour
of King Charles to his Russian benefactors was no less "ungrateful" than that of Prince Alexander,
it would be a fit Nemesis for these ingrats to be set by the ears. Accordingly, in the month
of August 1885, orders were issued to Russian agents to fan the border dispute; and on August
12/30 the Director of the Asiatic Department at St. Petersburg wrote the following instructions
to the Russian Consul-General at Rustchuk:--

     You remember that the union [of the two Bulgarias] must not
     take place until after the abdication of Prince Alexander.
     However, the ill-advised and hostile attitude of King Charles
     of Roumania [to Russia] obliges the imperial government to
     postpone for some time the projected union of Eastern
     Roumelia to the Principality, as well as the abdication and
     expulsion of the Prince of Bulgaria. In the session of the
     Council of [Russian] Ministers held yesterday it was decided
     to beg the Emperor to call Prince Alexander to Copenhagen or
     to St. Petersburg in order to inform him that, according to
     the will of His Majesty, Bulgaria must defend by armed force
     her rights over the points hereinbefore mentioned[195].

[Footnote 195: R. Leonoff, op. cit. pp. 81-84.]

The despatch then states that Russia will keep Turkey quiet and will eventually make war on
Roumania; also, that if Bulgaria triumphs over Roumania, the latter will pay her in territory
or money, or in both. Possibly, however, the whole scheme may have been devised to serve as
a decoy to bring Prince Alexander within the power of his imperial patrons, who, in that case,
would probably have detained and dethroned him.

Further light was thrown on the tortuous course of Russian diplomacy by a speech of Count Eugen
Zichy to the Hungarian Delegations about a year later. He made the startling declaration that
in the summer of 1885 Russia concluded a treaty with Montenegro with the aim of dethroning
King Milan and Prince Alexander, and the division of the Balkan States between Prince Nicholas
of Montenegro and the Karageorgevich Pretender who has since made his way to the throne at
Belgrade. The details of these schemes are not known, but the searchlight thrown upon them
from Buda-Pesth revealed the shifts of the policy of those "friends of peace," the Czar Alexander
III. and his Chancellor, de Giers.

Prince Alexander may not have been aware of these schemes in their full extent, but he and
his friends certainly felt the meshes closing around them. There were only two courses open,
either completely to submit to the Czar (which, for the Prince, implied abdication) or to rely
on the Bulgarian people. The Prince took the course which would have been taken by every man
worthy of the name. It is, however, almost certain that he did not foresee the events at Philippopolis.
He gave his word to a German officer, Major von Huhn, that he had not in the least degree expected
the unionist movement to take so speedy and decisive a step forward as it did in the middle
of September. The Prince, in fact, had been on a tour throughout Europe, and expressed the
same opinion to the Russian Chancellor, de Giers, at Franzensbad.

But by this time everything was ready at Philippopolis. As the men of Eastern Roumelia were
all of one mind in this matter, it was the easiest of tasks to surprise the Sultan's representative,
Gavril Pasha, to surround his office with soldiers, and to request him to leave the province
(September 18). A carriage was ready to conduct him towards Sofia. In it sat a gaily dressed
peasant girl holding a drawn sword. Gavril turned red with rage at this insult, but he mounted
the vehicle, and was driven through the town and thence towards the Balkans.

Such was the departure of the last official of the Sultan from the land which the Turks had
often drenched with blood; such was the revenge of the southern Bulgarians for the atrocities
of 1876. Not a drop of blood was shed; and Major von Huhn, who soon arrived at Philippopolis,
found Greeks and Turks living contentedly under the new government. The word "revolution" is
in such cases a misnomer. South Bulgaria merely returned to its natural state[196]. But nothing
will convince diplomatists that events can happen without the pulling of wires by themselves
or their rivals. In this instance they found that Prince Alexander had made the revolution.

[Footnote 196: The Struggle of the Bulgarians for National Independence, by Major A. von Huhn,
chap. ii. See, too, Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 1 (1886), p. 83.]

At first, however, the Prince doubted whether he should accept the crown of a Greater Bulgaria
which the men of Philippopolis now enthusiastically offered to him. Stambuloff strongly urged
him to accept, even if he thereby still further enraged the Czar: "Sire," he said, "two roads
lie before you: the one to Philippopolis and as far beyond as God may lead; the other to Sistova
and Darmstadt. I counsel you to take the crown the nation offers you." On the 20th the Prince
announced his acceptance of the crown of a united Bulgaria. As he said to the British Consul
at Philippopolis, he would have been a "sharper" (filou) not to side with his people[197].

[Footnote 197: Stambuloff, by A.H. Beaman, chap. iii.; Parl. Papers, ibid. p. 81.]

Few persons were prepared for the outburst of wrath of the Czar at hearing this news. Early
in his reign he had concentrated into a single phrase--"silly Pole"--the spleen of an essentially
narrow nature at seeing a kinsman and a dependant dare to think and act for himself[198]. But
on this occasion, as we can now see, the Prince had marred Russia's plans in the most serious
way. Stambuloff and he had deprived her of her unionist trump card. The Czar found his project
of becoming Grand Duke of a Greater Bulgaria blocked by the action of this same hated kinsman.
Is it surprising that his usual stolidity gave way to one of those fits of bull-like fury which
aroused the fear of all who beheld them? Thenceforth between the Emperor Alexander and Prince
Alexander the relations might be characterised by the curt phrase which Palafox hurled at the
French from the weak walls of Saragossa--"War to the knife." Like Palafox, the Prince now had
no hope but in the bravery of his people.

[Footnote 198: Bismarck: Reflections and Reminiscences, vol. ii. p. 116 (Eng. ed.).]

In the ciphered telegrams of September 19 and 20, which the Director of the Asiatic Department
at St. Petersburg sent to the Russian Consul-General at Rustchuk, the note of resentment and
revenge was clearly sounded. The events in Eastern Roumelia had changed "all our intentions."
The agent was therefore directed to summon the chief Russian officers in Bulgaria and ask them
whether the "young" Bulgarian officers could really command brigades and regiments, and organise
the artillery; also whether that army could alone meet the army of "a neighbouring State."
The replies of the officers being decidedly in the negative, they were ordered to leave Bulgaria[199].
Nelidoff, the Russian ambassador at Constantinople, also worked furiously to spur on the Sultan
to revenge the insult inflicted on him by Prince Alexander.

[Footnote 199: R. Leonoff, op. cit. Nos. 75, 77.]

Sir William White believed that the volte face in Russian policy was due solely to Nelidoff's
desire to thwart the peaceful policy of the Russian Chancellor, de Giers, who at that time
chanced to be absent in Tyrol, while the Czar also was away at Copenhagen[200]. But it now
appears that the Russian Foreign Office took Nelidoff's view, and bade him press Turkey to
restore the "legal order" of things in Eastern Roumelia. Further, the Ministers of the Czar
found that Servia, Greece, and perhaps also Roumania, intended to oppose the aggrandisement
of Bulgaria; and it therefore seemed easy to chastise "the Battenberger" for his wanton disturbance
of the peace of Europe.

[Footnote 200: Sir William White: Memoirs and Correspondence, by H. Sutherland Edwards, pp.
231-232.]

Possibly Russia would herself have struck at Bulgaria but for the difficulties of the general
situation. How great these were will be realised by a perusal of the following chapters, which
deal with the spread of Nihilism in Russia, the formation of the Austro-German alliance, and
the favour soon shown to it by Italy, the estrangement of England and the Porte owing to the
action taken by the former in Egypt, and the sharp collision of interests between Russia and
England at Panjdeh on the Afghan frontier. When it is further remembered that France fretted
at the untoward results of M. Ferry's forward policy in Tonquin; that Germany was deeply engaged
in colonial efforts; and that the United Kingdom was distracted by those efforts, by the failure
of the expedition to Khartum, and by the Parnellite agitation in Ireland--the complexity of
the European situation will be sufficiently evident. Assuredly the events of the year 1885
were among the most distracting ever recorded in the history of Europe.

This clash of interests among nations wearied by war, and alarmed at the apparition of the
red spectre of revolution in their midst, told by no means unfavourably on the fortunes of
the Balkan States. The dominant facts of the situation were, firstly, that Russia no longer
had a free hand in the Balkan Peninsula in face of the compact between the three Emperors ratified
at Skiernewice in the previous autumn (see Chapter XII.); and, secondly, that the traditional
friendship between England and the Porte had been replaced by something like hostility. Seeing
that the Sultan had estranged the British Government by his very suspicious action during the
revolts of Arabi Pasha and of the Mahdi, even those who had loudly proclaimed the need of propping
up his authority as essential to the stability of our Eastern Empire now began to revise their
prejudices.

Thus, when Lord Salisbury came to office, if not precisely to power, in June 1885, he found
affairs in the East rapidly ripening for a change of British policy--a change which is known
to have corresponded with his own convictions. Finally, the marriage of Princess Beatrice to
Prince Henry of Battenberg, on July 23, 1885, added that touch of personal interest which enabled
Court circles to break with the traditions of the past and to face the new situation with equanimity.
Accordingly the power of Britain, which in 1876-78 had been used to thwart the growth of freedom
in the Balkan Peninsula, was now put forth to safeguard the union of Bulgaria. During these
critical months Sir William White acted as ambassador at Constantinople, and used his great
knowledge of the Balkan peoples with telling effect for this salutary purpose.

Lord Salisbury advised the Sultan not to send troops into Southern Bulgaria; and the warning
chimed in with the note of timorous cunning which formed the undertone of that monarch's thought
and policy. Distracted by the news of the warlike preparations of Servia and Greece, Abdul
Hamid looked on Russia's advice in a contrary sense as a piece of Muscovite treachery. About
the same time, too, there were rumours of palace plots at Constantinople; and the capricious
recluse of Yildiz finally decided to keep his best troops near at hand. It appears, then, that
Nihilism in Russia and the spectre of conspiracy always haunting the brain of Abdul Hamid played
their part in assuring the liberties of Bulgaria.

Meanwhile the Powers directed their ambassadors at Constantinople to hold a preliminary Conference
at which Turkey would be represented. The result was a declaration expressing formal disapproval
of the violation of the Treaty of Berlin, and a hope that all parties concerned would keep
the peace. This mild protest very inadequately reflected the character of the discussions which
had been going on between the several Courts. Russia, it is known, wished to fasten the blame
for the revolution on Prince Alexander; but all public censure was vetoed by England.

Probably her action was as effective in still weightier matters. A formal Conference of the
ambassadors of the Powers met at Constantinople on November 5; and there again Sir William
White, acting on instructions from Lord Salisbury, defended the Bulgarian cause, and sought
to bring about a friendly understanding between the Porte and "a people occupying so important
a position in the Sultan's dominions." Lord Salisbury also warned the Turkish ambassador in
London that if Turkey sought to expel Prince Alexander from Eastern Roumelia, she would "be
making herself the instrument of those who desired the fall of the Ottoman Empire[201]."

[Footnote 201: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 1 (1886), pp. 214-215. See, too, ibid. pp. 197 et
seq. for Lord Salisbury's instructions to Sir William White for the Conference. In view of
them it is needless to waste space in refuting the arguments of the Russophil A.G. Drandar,
op. cit. p. 147, that England sought to make war between the Balkan States.]

This reference to the insidious means used by Russia for bringing the Turks to a state of tutelage,
as a preliminary to partition, was an effective reminder of the humiliations which they had
undergone at the hands of Russia by the Treaty of Unkiar Skelessi (1833). France also showed
no disposition to join the Russian and Austrian demand that the Sultan should at once re-establish
the status quo; and by degrees the more intelligent Turks came to see that a strong Bulgaria,
independent of Russian control, might be an additional safeguard against the Colossus of the
North. Russia's insistence on the exact fulfilment of the Treaty of Berlin helped to open their
eyes, and lent force to Sir William White's arguments as to the need of strengthening that
treaty by "introducing into it a timely improvement[202]."

[Footnote 202: Ibid. pp. 273-274, 288, for Russia's policy; p. 284 for Sir W. White's argument.]

Owing to the opposition offered by Great Britain, and to some extent by France, to the proposed
restoration of the old order of things in Eastern Roumelia, the Conference came to an end at
the close of November, the three Imperial Powers blaming Sir William White for his obstructive
tactics. The charges will not bear examination, but they show the irritation of those Governments
at England's championship of the Bulgarian cause[203]. The Bulgarians always remember the names
of Lord Salisbury and Sir William White as those of friends in need.

[Footnote 203: Ibid. pp. 370-372.]

In the main, however, the consolidation of Bulgaria was achieved by her own stalwart sons.
While the Imperial Powers were proposing to put back the hands of the clock, an alarum sounded
forth, proclaiming the advent of a new era in the history of the Balkan peoples. The action
which brought about this change was startling alike in its inception, in the accompanying incidents,
and still more in its results.

Where Abdul Hamid forebore to enter, even as the mandatory of the Continental Courts, there
Milan of Servia rushed in. As an excuse for his aggression, the Kinglet of Belgrade alleged
the harm done to Servian trade by a recent revision of the Bulgarian tariff. But the Powers
assessed this complaint and others at their due value, and saw in his action merely the desire
to seize a part of Western Bulgaria as a set-off to the recent growth of that Principality.
On all sides his action in declaring war against Prince Alexander (November 14) met with reprobation,
even on the part of his guide and friend, Austria. A recent report of the Hungarian Committee
on Foreign Affairs contained a recommendation which implied that he ought to receive compensation;
and this seemed to show the wish of the more active part of the Dual Monarchy peacefully but
effectively to champion his cause[204].

[Footnote 204: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 1 (1886), p. 250.]

Nevertheless, the King decided to carve out his fortunes by his own sword. He had some grounds
for confidence. If a Bulgarian fait accompli could win tacit recognition from the Powers, why
should not a Servian triumph over Bulgaria force their hands once more? Prince Alexander was
unsafe on his throne; thanks to the action of Russia his troops had very few experienced officers;
and in view of the Sultan's resentment his southern border could not be denuded of troops.
Never did a case seem more desperate than that of the "Peasant State," deserted and flouted
by Russia, disliked by the Sultan, on bad terms with Roumania, and publicly lectured by the
Continental Powers for her irregular conduct. Servia's triumph seemed assured.

But now there came forth one more proof of the vitalising force of the national principle.
In seven years the downtrodden peasants of Bulgaria had become men, and now astonished the
world by their prowess. The withdrawal of the Russian officers left half of the captaincies
vacant; but they were promptly filled up by enthusiastic young lieutenants. Owing to the blowing
up of the line from Philippopolis to Adrianople, only five locomotives were available for carrying
back northwards the troops which had hitherto been massed on the southern border; and these
five were already overstrained. Yet the engineers now worked them still harder and they did
not break down[205]. The hardy peasants tramped impossibly long distances in their longing
to meet the Servians. The arrangements were carried through with a success which seems miraculous
in an inexperienced race. The explanation was afterwards rightly discerned by an English visitor
to Bulgaria. "This is the secret of Bulgarian independence--everybody is in grim earnest. The
Bulgarians do not care about amusements[206]." In that remark there is food for thought. Inefficiency
has no place among a people that looks to the welfare of the State as all in all. Breakdowns
occur when men think more about "sport" and pleasure than about doing their utmost for their
country.

[Footnote 205: A. von Huhn, op. cit. p. 105.]

[Footnote 206: E.A.B. Hodgetts, Round about Armenia, p. 7.]

The results of this grim earnestness were to astonish the world. The Servians at first gained
some successes in front of Widdin and Slivnitza; but the defenders of the latter place (an
all-important position north-west of Sofia) hurried up all possible forces. Two Bulgarian regiments
are said to have marched 123 kilometres in thirty hours in order to defend that military outwork
of their capital; while others, worn out with marching, rode forward on horseback, two men
to each horse, and then threw themselves into the fight. The Bulgarian artillery was well served,
and proved to be very superior to that of the Servians.

Thus, on the first two days of conflict at Slivnitza, the defenders beat back the Servians
with some loss. On the third day (November 19), after receiving reinforcements, they took the
offensive, with surprising vigour. A talented young officer, Bendereff, led their right wing,
with bands playing and colours flying, to storm the hillsides that dominated the Servian position.
The hardy peasants scaled the hills and delivered the final bayonet charge so furiously that
there and on all sides the invaders fled in wild panic, and scarcely halted until they reached
their own frontier.

Thenceforth King Milan had hard work to keep his men together. Many of them were raw troops;
their ammunition was nearly exhausted; and their morale had vanished utterly. Prince Alexander
had little difficulty in thrusting them forth from Pirot, and seemed to have before him a clear
road to Belgrade, when suddenly he was brought to a halt by a menace from the north[207].

[Footnote 207: Drandar, Événements politiques en Bulgarie, pp. 89-116; von Huhn, op. cit. chaps.
x. xi.]

A special envoy sent by the Hapsburgs, Count Khevenhüller, came in haste to the headquarters
of the Prince on November 28, and in imperious terms bade him grant an armistice to Servia,
otherwise Austrian troops would forthwith cross the frontier to her assistance. Before this
threat Alexander gave way, and was blamed by some of his people for this act of complaisance.
But assuredly he could not well have acted otherwise. The three Emperors, of late acting in
accord in Balkan questions, had it in their power to crush him by launching the Turks against
Philippopolis, or their own troops against Sofia. He had satisfied the claims of honour; he
had punished Servia for her peevish and unsisterly jealousy. Under his lead the Bulgarians
had covered themselves with glory, and had leaped at a bound from political youth to manhood.
Why should he risk their new-found unity merely in order to abase Servia? The Prince never
acted more prudently than when he decided not to bring into the field the Power which, as he
believed, had pushed on Servia to war[208].

[Footnote 208: Drandar, op. cit. chap. iii.; Kuhn, op. cit. chap. xviii.]

Had he known that the Russian Chancellor, de Giers, on hearing of Austria's threat to Bulgaria,
informed the Court of Vienna of the Czar's condign displeasure if that threat were carried
into effect, perhaps he would have played a grand game, advancing on Belgrade, dethroning the
already unpopular King Milan, and offering to the Czar the headship of a united Servo-Bulgarian
State. He might thus have appeased that sovereign, but at the cost of a European war. Whether
from lack of information, or from a sense of prudence and humanity, the Prince held back and
decided for peace with Servia. Despite many difficulties thrown in the way by King Milan, this
was the upshot of the ensuing negotiations. The two States finally came to terms by the Treaty
of Bukharest, where, thanks to the good sense of the negotiators and the efforts of Turkey
to compose these strifes, peace was assured on the basis of the status quo ante bellum (March
3, 1886).

Already the Porte had manifested its good-will towards Bulgaria in the most signal manner.
This complete reversal of policy may be assigned to several causes. Firstly, Prince Alexander,
on marching against the Servians, had very tactfully proclaimed that he did so on behalf of
the existing order of things, which they were bent on overthrowing. His actions having corresponded
to his words, the Porte gradually came to see in him a potent defender against Russia. This
change in the attitude of the Sultan was undoubtedly helped on by the arguments of Lord Salisbury
to the Turkish ambassador at London. He summarised the whole case for a recognition of the
union of the two Bulgarias in the following remarks (December 23, 1885):--

     Every week's experience showed that the Porte had little to
     dread from the subserviency of Bulgaria to foreign influence,
     if only Bulgaria were allowed enjoyment of her unanimous
     desires, and the Porte did not gratuitously place itself in
     opposition to the general feeling of the people. A Bulgaria,
     friendly to the Porte, and jealous of foreign influence,
     would be a far surer bulwark against foreign aggression than
     two Bulgarias, severed in administration, but united in
     considering the Porte as the only obstacle to their national
     development[209].

[Footnote 209: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 1 (1886), p. 424.]

Events served to reveal the soundness of this statesmanlike pronouncement. At the close of
the year Prince Alexander returned from the front to Sofia and received an overwhelming ovation
as the champion of Bulgarian liberties. Further, he now found no difficulty in coming to an
understanding with the Turkish Commissioners sent to investigate the state of opinion in Southern
Bulgaria. Most significant of all was the wrath of the Czar at the sight of his popularity,
and the utter collapse of the Russian party at Sofia.

Meanwhile the Powers found themselves obliged little by little to abandon their pedantic resolve
to restore the Treaty of Berlin. Sir Robert Morier, British ambassador at St. Petersburg, in
a letter of December 27, 1885, to Sir William White, thus commented on the causes that assured
success to the Bulgarian cause:

     The very great prudence shown by Lord Salisbury, and the
     consummate ability with which you played your part, have made
     it a successful game; but the one crowning good fortune,
     which we mainly owe to the incalculable folly of the Servian
     attack, has been that Prince Alexander's generalship and the
     fighting capacities of his soldiers have placed our rival
     action [his own and that of Sir W. White] in perfect harmony
     with the crushing logic of fact. The rivalry is thus
     completely swamped in the bit of cosmic work so successfully
     accomplished. A State has been evolved out of the protoplasm
     of Balkan chaos.

Sir Robert Morier finally stated that if Sir William White succeeded in building up an independent
Bulgaria friendly to Roumania, he would have achieved the greatest feat of diplomacy since
Sir James Hudson's statesmanlike moves at Turin in the critical months of 1859-60 gained for
England a more influential position in Italy than France had secured by her aid in the campaign
of Solferino. The praise is overstrained, inasmuch as it leaves out of count the statecraft
of Bismarck in the years 1863-64 and 1869-70; but certainly among the peaceful triumphs of
recent years that of Sir William White must rank very high.

If, however, we examine the inner cause of the success of the diplomacy of Hudson and White
we must assign it in part to the mistakes of the liberating Powers, France and Russia. Napoleon
III., by requiring the cession of Savoy and Nice, and by revealing his design to Gallicise
the Italian Peninsula, speedily succeeded in alienating the Italians. The action of Russia,
in compelling Bulgaria to give up the Dobrudscha as an equivalent to the part of Bessarabia
which she took from Roumania, also strained the sense of gratitude of those peoples; and the
conduct of Muscovite agents in Bulgaria provoked in that Principality feelings bitterer than
those which the Italians felt at the loss of Savoy and Nice. So true is it that in public as
in private life the manner in which a wrong is inflicted counts for more than the wrong itself.
It was on this sense of resentment (misnamed "ingratitude" by the "liberators") that British
diplomacy worked with telling effect in both cases. It conferred on the "liberated" substantial
benefits; but their worth was doubled by the contrast which they offered to the losses or the
irritation consequent on the actions of Napoleon III. and of Alexander III.

To the present writer it seems that the great achievements of Sir William White were, first,
that he kept the Sultan quiet (a course, be it remarked, from which that nervous recluse was
never averse) when Nelidoff sought to hound him on against Bulgaria; and, still more, that
he helped to bring about a good understanding between Constantinople and Sofia. In view of
the hatred which Abdul Hamid bore to England after her intervention in Egypt in 1882, this
was certainly a great diplomatic achievement; but possibly Abdul Hamid hoped to reap advantages
on the Nile from his complaisance to British policy in the Balkans.

The outcome of it all was the framing of a Turco-Bulgarian Convention (February 1, 1886) whereby
the Porte recognised Prince Alexander as Governor of Eastern Roumelia for a term of five years;
a few border districts in Rhodope, inhabited by Moslems, were ceded to the Sultan, and (wonder
of wonders!) Turkey and Bulgaria concluded an offensive and defensive alliance. In case of
foreign aggression on Bulgaria, Turkish troops would be sent thither to be commanded by the
Prince; if Turkey were invaded, Bulgarian troops would form part of the Sultan's army repelling
the invader. In other respects the provisions of the Treaty of Berlin remained in force for
Southern Bulgaria[210].

[Footnote 210: Parl. Papers, Turkey, No. 2 (1886).]

On that same day, as it chanced, the Salisbury Cabinet resigned office, and Mr. Gladstone became
Prime Minister, Lord Rosebery taking the portfolio for Foreign Affairs. This event produced
little variation in Britain's Eastern policy, and that statement will serve to emphasise the
importance of the change of attitude of the Conservative party towards those affairs in the
years 1878-85--a change undoubtedly due in the main to the Marquis of Salisbury.

In the official notes of the Earl of Rosebery there is manifest somewhat more complaisance
to Russia, as when on February 12 he instructed Sir William White to advise the Porte to modify
its convention with Bulgaria by abandoning the stipulation as to mutual military aid. Doubtless
this advice was sound. It coincided with the known opinions of the Court of Vienna; and at
the same time Russia formally declared that she could never accept that condition[211]. As
Germany took the same view the Porte agreed to expunge the obnoxious clause. The Government
of the Czar also objected to the naming of Prince Alexander in the Convention. This unlooked-for
slight naturally aroused the indignation of the Prince; but as the British Government deferred
to Russian views on this matter, the Convention was finally signed at Constantinople on April
5, 1886. The Powers, including Turkey, thereby recognised "the Prince of Bulgaria" (not named)
as Governor of Eastern Roumelia for a term of five years, and referred the "Organic Statute"
of that province to revision by a joint Conference.

[Footnote 211: Ibid. pp. 96-98.]

The Prince submitted to this arrangement, provisional and humiliating though it was. But the
insults inflicted by Russia bound him the more closely to his people; and at the united Parliament,
where 182 members out of the total 300 supported his Ministers, he advocated measures that
would cement the union. Bulgarian soon became the official language throughout South Bulgaria,
to the annoyance of the Greek and Turkish minorities. But the chief cause of unrest continued
to be the intrigues of Russian agents.

The anger of the Czar at the success of his hated kinsman showed itself in various ways. Not
content with inflicting every possible slight and disturbing the peace of Bulgaria through
his agents, he even menaced Europe with war over that question. At Sevastopol on May 19, he
declared that circumstances might compel him "to defend by force of arms the dignity of the
Empire"--a threat probably aimed at Bulgaria and Turkey. On his return to Moscow he received
an enthusiastic welcome from the fervid Slavophils of the old Russian capital, the Mayor expressing
in his address the hope that "the cross of Christ will soon shine on St. Sofia" at Constantinople.
At the end of June the Russian Government repudiated the clause of the Treaty of Berlin constituting
Batoum a free port[212]. Despite a vigorous protest by Lord Rosebery against this infraction
of treaty engagements, the Czar and M. de Giers held to their resolve, evidently by way of
retort to the help given from London to the union of the two Bulgarias.

[Footnote 212: Parl. Papers, Russia (1886), p. 828.]

The Dual Monarchy, especially Hungary, also felt the weight of Russia's displeasure in return
for the sympathy manifested for the Prince at Pesth and Vienna; and but for the strength which
the friendship of Germany afforded, that Power would almost certainly have encountered war
from the irate potentate of the North.

Turkey, having no champion, was in still greater danger; her conduct in condoning the irregularities
of Prince Alexander was as odious to Alexander III. as the atrocities of her Bashi-bazouks
ten years before had been to his more chivalrous sire. It is an open secret that during the
summer of 1886 the Czar was preparing to deal a heavy blow. The Sultan evaded it by adroitly
shifting his ground and posing as a well-wisher of the Czar, whereupon M. Nelidoff, the Russian
ambassador at Constantinople, proposed an offensive and defensive alliance, and went to the
length of suggesting that they should wage war against Austria and England in order to restore
the Sultan's authority over Bosnia and Egypt at the expense of those intrusive Powers. How
far negotiations went on this matter and why they failed is not known. The ordinary explanation,
that the Czar forbore to draw the sword because of his love of peace, hardly tallies with what
is now known of his character and his diplomacy. It is more likely that he was appeased by
the events now to be described, and thereafter attached less importance to a direct intervention
in Balkan affairs.

No greater surprise has happened in this generation than the kidnapping of Prince Alexander
by officers of the army which he had lately led to victory. Yet the affair admits of explanation.
Certain of their number nourished resentment against him for his imperfect recognition of their
services during the Servian War, and for the introduction of German military instructors at
its close. Among the malcontents was Bendereff, the hero of Slivnitza, who, having been guilty
of discourtesy to the Prince, was left unrewarded. On this discontented knot of men Russian
intriguers fastened themselves profitably, with the result that one regiment at least began
to waver in its allegiance.

A military plot was held in reserve as a last resort. In the first place, a Russian subject,
Captain Nabokoff, sought to simplify the situation by hiring some Montenegrin desperadoes,
and by seeking to murder or carry off the Prince as he drew near to Bourgas during a tour in
Eastern Bulgaria. This plan came to light through the fidelity of a Bulgarian peasant, whereupon
Nabokoff and a Montenegrin priest were arrested (May 18). At once the Russian Consul at that
seaport appeared, demanded the release of the conspirators, and, when this was refused, threatened
the Bulgarian authorities if justice took its course. It is not without significance that the
Czar's warlike speech at Sevastopol startled the world on the day after the arrest of the conspirators
at Bourgas. Apparently the arrest of Nabokoff impelled the Czar of all the Russias to uphold
the dignity of his Empire by hurling threats against a State which protected itself from conspiracy.
The champion of order in Russia thereby figured as the abettor of plotters in the Balkans.

The menaces of the Northern Power availed to defer the trial of the conspirators, and the affair
was still undecided when the conspirators at Sofia played their last card. Bendereff was at
that time acting as Minister of War, and found means to spread broadcast a rumour that Servia
was arming as if for war. Sending northwards some faithful troops to guard against this baseless
danger, he left the capital at the mercy of the real enemy.

On August 21, when all was ready, the Struma Regiment hastily marched back by night to Sofia,
disarmed the few faithful troops there in garrison, surrounded the palace of the Prince, while
the ringleaders burst into his bedchamber. He succeeded in fleeing through a corridor which
led to the garden, only to be met with levelled bayonets and cries of hatred. The leaders thrust
him into a corner, tore a sheet out of the visitors' book which lay on a table close by, and
on it hastily scrawled words implying abdication; the Prince added his signature, along with
the prayer, "God save Bulgaria." At dawn the mutineers forced him into a carriage, Bendereff
and his accomplices crowding round to dismiss him with jeers and screen him from the sight
of the public. Thence he was driven at the utmost speed through byways towards the Danube.
There the conspirators had in readiness his own yacht, which they had seized, and carried him
down the stream towards Russian territory.

The outburst of indignation with which the civilised world heard of this foul deed had its
counterpart in Bulgaria. So general and so keen was the reprobation (save in the Russian and
Bismarckian Press) that the Russian Government took some steps to dissociate itself from the
plot, while profiting by its results. On August 24, when the Prince was put on shore at Reni,
the Russian authorities kept him under guard, and that, too, despite an order of the Czar empowering
him to "continue his journey exactly as he might please." Far from this, he was detained for
some little time, and then was suffered to depart by train only in a northerly direction. He
ultimately entered Austrian territory by way of Lemberg in Galicia, on August 27. The aim of
the St. Petersburg Government evidently was to give full time for the conspirators at Sofia
to consolidate their power[213].

[Footnote 213: A. von Huhn, op. cit. chap. iv.]

Meanwhile, by military display, the distribution of money, and a Te Deum at the Cathedral for
"liberation from Prince Battenberg," the mutineers sought to persuade the men of Sofia that
peace and prosperity would infallibly result from the returning favour of the Czar. The populace
accepted the first tokens of his good-will and awaited developments. These were not promising
for the mutineers. The British Consul at Philippopolis, Captain Jones, on hearing of the affair,
hurried to the commander of the garrison, General Mutkuroff, and besought him to crush the
plotters[214]. The General speedily enlisted his own troops and those in garrison elsewhere
on the side of the Prince, with the result that a large part of the army refused to take the
oath of allegiance to the new Russophil Ministry, composed of trimmers like Bishop Clement
and Zankoff. Karaveloff also cast in his influence against them.

[Footnote 214: See Mr. Minchin's account in the Morning Advertiser for September 23, 1886.]

Above all, Stambuloff worked furiously for the Prince; and when a mitred Vicar of Bray held
the seals of office and enjoyed the official counsels of traitors and place-hunters, not all
the prayers of the Greek Church and the gold of Russian agents could long avail to support
the Government against the attacks of that strong-willed, clean-handed patriot. Shame at the
disgrace thus brought on his people doubled his powers; and, with the aid of all that was best
in the public life of Bulgaria, he succeeded in sweeping Clement and his Comus rout back to
their mummeries and their underground plots. So speedy was the reverse of fortune that the
new Provisional Government succeeded in thwarting the despatch of a Russian special Commissioner,
General Dolgorukoff, through whom Alexander III. sought to bestow the promised blessings on
that "much-tried" Principality.

The voice of Bulgaria now made itself heard. There was but one cry--for the return of Prince
Alexander. At once he consented to fulfil his people's desire; and, travelling by railway through
Bukharest, he reached the banks of the Danube and set foot on his yacht, not now a prisoner,
but the hero of the German, Magyar, and Balkan peoples. At Rustchuk officers and deputies bore
him ashore shoulder-high to the enthusiastic people. He received a welcome even from the Consul-General
for Russia--a fact which led him to take a false step. Later in the day, when Stambuloff was
not present, he had an interview with this agent, and then sent a telegram to the Czar, announcing
his return, his thanks for his friendly reception by Russia's chief agent, and his readiness
to accept the advice of General Dolgorukoff. The telegram ended thus:--

     I should be happy to be able to give to Your Majesty the
     definitive proof of the devotion with which I am animated
     towards Your august person. The monarchical principle forces
     me to re-establish the reign of law (la légalité) in
     Bulgaria and Roumelia. Russia having given me my crown, I am
     ready to give it back into the hands of its Sovereign.

To this the Czar sent the following telegraphic reply, and allowed it to appear at once in
the official paper at St. Petersburg:--

     I have received Your Highness's telegram. I cannot approve
     your return to Bulgaria, as I foresee the sinister
     consequences that it may bring on Bulgaria, already so much
     tried. The mission of General Dolgorukoff is now inopportune.
     I shall abstain from it in the sad state of things to which
     Bulgaria is reduced so long as you remain there. Your
     Highness will understand what you have to do. I reserve my
     judgment as to what is commanded me by the venerated memory
     of my father, the interests of Russia, and the peace of the
     Orient[215].

[Footnote 215: A. von Huhn, The Kidnapping of Prince Alexander, chap. xi. (London, 1887). Article
III. of the Treaty of Berlin ran thus: "The Prince of Bulgaria shall be freely elected by the
population and confirmed by the Sublime Porte, with the assent of the Powers." Russia had no
right to choose the Prince, and her assent to his election was only that of one among the six
Great Powers. The mistake of Prince Alexander is therefore inexplicable.]

What led the Prince to use the extraordinary words contained in the last sentence of his telegram
can only be conjectured. The substance of his conversation with the Russian Consul-General
is not known; and until the words of that official are fully explained he must be held open
to the suspicion of having played on the Prince a diplomatic version of the confidence trick.
Another version, that of M. Élie de Cyon, is that he acted on instructions from the Russian
Chancellor, de Giers, who believed that the Czar would relent. On the contrary, he broke loose,
and sent the answer given above[216].

[Footnote 216: Histoire de l'Entente franco-russe, by Élie de Cyon, p. 158.]

It is not surprising that, after receiving the Czar's retort, the Prince seemed gloomy and
depressed where all around him were full of joy. At Tirnova and Philippopolis he had the same
reception; but an attempt to derail his train on the journey to Sofia showed that the malice
of his foes was still unsated. The absence of the Russian and German Consuls from the State
reception accorded to the Prince at the capital on September 3 showed that he had to reckon
with the hostility or disapprobation of those Governments; and there was the ominous fact that
the Russian agent at Sofia had recently intervened to prevent the punishment of the mutineers
and Bishop Clement. Few, however, were prepared for what followed. On entering his palace,
the Prince called his officers about him and announced that, despairing of overcoming the antipathy
of the Czar to him, he must abdicate. Many of them burst into tears, and one of them cried,
"Without your Highness there is no Bulgaria."

This action, when the Prince seemed at the height of popularity, caused intense astonishment.
The following are the reasons that probably dictated it. Firstly, he may have felt impelled
to redeem the pledges which he too trustfully made to the Czar in his Rustchuk telegram, and
of which that potentate took so unchivalrous an advantage. Secondly, the intervention of Russia
to protect the mutineers from their just punishment betokened her intention to foment further
plots. In this intervention, strange to say, she had the support of the German Government,
Bismarck using his influence at Berlin persistently against the Prince, in order to avert the
danger of war, which once or twice seemed to be imminent between Russia and Germany.

Further, we may note that Austria and the other States had no desire to court an attack from
the Eastern Power, on account of a personal affair between the two Alexanders. Great Britain
also was at that time too hampered by domestic and colonial difficulties to be able to do more
than offer good wishes.

Thus the weakness or the weariness of the States friendly to Bulgaria left the Czar a free
hand in the personal feud on which he set such store. Accordingly, on September 7, the Prince
left Bulgaria amidst the lamentations of that usually stolid people and the sympathy of manly
hearts throughout the world. At Buda-Pesth and London there were ominous signs that the Czar
must not push his triumph further. Herr Tisza at the end of the month assured the Hungarian
deputies that, if the Sultan did not choose to restore the old order of things in Southern
Bulgaria, no other Power had the right to intervene there by force of arms. Lord Salisbury,
also, at the Lord Mayor's banquet, on November 9, inveighed with startling frankness against
the "officers debauched by foreign gold," who had betrayed their Prince. He further stated
that all interest in foreign affairs centred in Bulgaria, and expressed the belief that the
freedom of that State would be assured.

These speeches were certainly intended as a warning to Russia and a protest against her action
in Bulgaria. After the departure of Prince Alexander, the Czar hit upon the device of restoring
order to that "much-tried" country through the instrumentality of General Kaulbars, a brother
of the General who had sought to kidnap Prince Alexander three years before. It is known that
the despatch of the younger Kaulbars was distasteful to the more pacific and Germanophil chancellor,
de Giers, who is said to have worked against the success of his mission. Such at least is the
version given by his private enemies, Katkoff and de Cyon[217]. Kaulbars soon succeeded in
adding to the reputation of his family. On reaching Sofia, on September 25, he ordered the
liberation of the military plotters still under arrest, and the adjournment of the forthcoming
elections for the Sobranje; otherwise Russia would not regard them as legal. The Bulgarian
Regents, Stambuloff at their head, stoutly opposed these demands and fixed the elections for
October the 10th; whereupon Kaulbars treated the men of Sofia, and thereafter of all the chief
towns, to displays of bullying rhetoric, which succeeded in blotting out all memories of Russian
exploits of nine years before[218]. For further details of Kaulbars' electioneering devices
see Minchin, op. cit. pp. 327-330.]

Despite his menace, that 100,000 Russian troops were ready to occupy Bulgaria, despite the
murder of four patriots by his bravos at Dubnitza, Bulgaria flung back the threats by electing
470 supporters of independence and unity, as against 30 Russophils and 20 deputies of doubtful
views. The Sobranje met at Tirnova, and, disregarding his protest, proceeded to elect Prince
Waldemar of Denmark; it then confirmed Stambuloff in his almost dictatorial powers. The Czar's
influence over the Danish Royal House led to the Prince promptly refusing that dangerous honour,
which it is believed that Russia then designed for the Prince of Mingrelia, a dignitary of
Russian Caucasia.

The aim of the Czar and of Kaulbars now was to render all government impossible; but they had
to deal with a man far more resolute and astute than Prince Alexander. Stambuloff and his countrymen
fairly wearied out Kaulbars, until that imperial agent was suddenly recalled (November 19).
He also ordered the Russian Consuls to withdraw.

It is believed that the Czar recalled him partly because of the obvious failure of a hectoring
policy, but also owing to the growing restlessness of Austria-Hungary, England, and Italy at
Russia's treatment of Bulgaria. For several months European diplomacy turned on the question
of Bulgaria's independence; and here Russia could not yet count on a French alliance. As has
been noted above, Alexander III. and de Giers had tied their hands by the alliance contracted
at Skiernewice in 1884; and the Czar had reason to expect that the Austro-German compact would
hold good against him if he forced on his solution of the Balkan Question.

Probably it was this consideration which led him to trust to underground means for assuring
the dependence of Bulgaria. If so, he was again disappointed. Stambuloff met his agents everywhere,
above ground and below ground. That son of an innkeeper at Tirnova now showed a power of inspiring
men and controlling events equal to that of the innkeeper of the Pusterthal, Andreas Hofer.
The discouraged Bulgarians everywhere responded to his call; at Rustchuk they crushed a rising
of Russophil officers, and Stambuloff had nine of the rebels shot (March 7, 1887). Thereafter
he acted as dictator and imprisoned numbers of suspects. His countrymen put up with the loss
of civic freedom in order to secure the higher boon of national independence.

In the main, however, the freedom of Bulgaria from Russian control was due to events transpiring
in Central Europe. As will appear in Chapter XII. of this work, the Czar and de Giers became
convinced, early in the year 1887, that Bismarck was preparing for war against France, and
they determined to hold aloof from other questions, in order to be free to checkmate the designs
of the war party at Berlin. The organ usually inspired by de Giers, the Nord, uttered an unmistakable
warning on February 20, 1887, and even stated that, with this aim in view, Russia would let
matters take their course in Bulgaria.

Thus, once again, the complexities of the general situation promoted the cause of freedom in
the Balkans; and the way was cleared for a resolute man to mount the throne at Sofia. In the
course of a tour to the European capitals, a Bulgarian delegation found that man. The envoys
were informed that Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg, a grandson of Louis Philippe on the spindle-side,
would welcome the dangerous honour. He was young, ambitious, and, as events were to prove,
equally tactful and forceful according to circumstances. In vain did Russia seek to prevent
his election by pushing on the Sultan to intervene. Abdul Hamid was not the man to let himself
long be the catspaw of Russia, and now invited the Powers to name one or two candidates for
the throne of Bulgaria. Stambuloff worked hard for the election of Prince Ferdinand; and on
July 7, 1887, he was unanimously elected by the Sobranje. Alone among the Great Powers, Russia
protested against his election and threw many difficulties in his path. In order to please
the Czar, the Sultan added his protest; but this act was soon seen to be merely a move in the
diplomatic game.

Limits of space, however, preclude the possibility of noting later events in the history of
Bulgaria, such as the coolness that clouded the relations of the Prince to Stambuloff, the
murder of the latter, and the final recognition of the Prince by the Russian Government after
the "conversion" of his little son, Boris, to the Greek Church (Feb. 1896). In this curious
way was fulfilled the prophetic advice given by Bismarck to the Prince not long after his acceptance
of the crown of Bulgaria: "Play the dead (faire mort). . . . Let yourself be driven gently
by the stream, and keep yourself, as hitherto, above water. Your greatest ally is time--force
of habit. Avoid everything that might irritate your enemies. Unless you give them provocation,
they cannot do you much harm, and in course of time the world will become accustomed to see
you on the throne of Bulgaria[219]."

[Footnote 219: Personal Reminiscences of Prince Bismarck, by S. Whitman, p. 179.]

Time has worked on behalf of Bulgaria, and has helped to strengthen this Benjamin of the European
family. Among the events which have made the chief States of to-day, none are more remarkable
than those which endowed a population of downtrodden peasants with a passionate desire for
national existence. Thanks to the liberating armies of Russia, to the prowess of Bulgarians
themselves, to the inspiring personality of Prince Alexander and the stubborn tenacity of Stambuloff,
the young State gained a firm grip on life. But other and stranger influences were at work
compelling that people to act for itself; these are to be found in the perverse conduct of
Alexander III. and of his agents. The policy of Russia towards Bulgaria may be characterised
by a remark made by Sir Robert Morier to Sir M. Grant Duff in 1888: "Russia is a great bicephalic
creature, having one head European, and the other Asiatic, but with the persistent habit of
turning its European face to the East, and its Asiatic face to the West[220]." Asiatic methods,
put in force against Slavised Tartars, have certainly played no small part in the upbuilding
of this youngest of the European States.

[Footnote 220: Sir M. Grant Duff, Notes from a Diary (1886-88), vol. ii. p. 139.]

In taking leave of the Balkan peoples, we may note the strange tendency of events towards equipoise
in the Europe of the present age. Thirty years ago the Turkish Empire seemed at the point of
dissolution. To-day it is stronger than ever; and this cause is to be found, not so much in
the watchful cunning of Abdul Hamid, as in the vivifying principle of nationality, which has
made of Bulgaria and Roumania two strong barriers against Russian aggression in that quarter.
The feuds of those States have been replaced by something like friendship, which in its turn
will probably ripen into alliance. Together they could put 250,000 good troops in the field--that
is, a larger force than that which the Turks had in Europe during the war with Russia. Turkey
is therefore fully as safe as she was under Abdul Aziz.

An enlightened ruler could consolidate her position still further. Just as Austria has gained
in strength by having Venetia as a friendly and allied land, rather than a subject province
heaving with discontent, so, too, it is open to the Porte to secure the alliance of the Balkan
States by treating them in an honourable way, and by according good government to Macedonia.

Possibly the future may see the formation of a federation of all the States of European Turkey.
If so, Russia will lose all foothold in a quarter where she formerly had the active support
of three-fourths of the population. However that may be, it is certain that her mistakes in
and after the year 1878 have profoundly modified the Eastern Question. They have served to
cancel those which, as it seems to the present writer, Lord Beaconsfield committed in the years
1876-77; and the skilful diplomacy of Lord Salisbury and Sir William White has regained for
England the prestige which she then lost among the rising peoples of the Peninsula.

The final solution of the tangled racial problems of Mace donia cannot be long deferred, in
spite of the timorous selfishness of the Powers who incurred treaty obligations for the welfare
of that land; and, when that question can be no longer postponed or explained away, it is to
be hoped that the British people, taking heed of the lessons of the past, will insist on a
solution that will conform to the claims of humanity, which have been proved to be those of
enlightened statesmanship[221].

[Footnote 221: For the recent developments of the Macedonian Question, see Turkey in Europe,
by "Odysseus" (1900); the Middle Eastern Question, by V. Chirol, 18s. net (Murray); A Tour
in Macedonia, by G.F. Abbot (1903); The Burden of the Balkans, by Miss Edith Durham (1904);
The Balkans from Within, by R. Wyon (1904); The Balkan Question, edited by L. Villari (1904);
Critical Times in Turkey, by G. King-Lewis (1904); Pro Macedonia, by V. Bérard (Paris, 1904);
La Péninsule balkanique, by Capitaine Lamouche (Paris, 1899).]

CHAPTER XI

NIHILISM AND ABSOLUTISM IN RUSSIA

                  THE HOUSE OF ROMANOFF

                        Catharine II.
                        (1762-1796.)
                             |
                             |
                           Paul.
                        (1796-1801.)
                             |

                   |                   |
              Alexander I.         Nicholas I.
             (1801-1825.)         (1825-1855.)
                                       |

                         |             |             |            |
                   Alexander II.   Constantine.   Nicholas.   Michael.
                   (1855-1881.)
                         |

      |            |            |        |            |           |
     Nicholas. Alexander III. Alexis.  Marie.      Sergius.      Paul.
     (Died in   (1881-1894.)         (Duchess of (Assassinated
     1865.)        |                 Edinburgh.) Feb. 17, 1905.)
                   |
              Nicholas II.
              (1894--.)

The Whig statesman, Charles James Fox, once made the profound though seemingly paradoxical
assertion that the most dangerous part of a Revolution was the Restoration that ended it. In
a similar way we may hazard the statement that the greatest danger brought about by war lies
in the period of peace immediately following. Just as the strain involved by any physical effort
is most felt when the muscles and nerves resume their normal action, so, too, the body politic
is liable to depression when once the time of excitement is over and the artificial activities
of war give place to the tiresome work of paying the bill. England after Waterloo, France and
Germany after the war of 1870, afford examples of this truth; but never perhaps has it been
more signally illustrated than in the Russia of 1878-82.

There were several reasons why the reaction should be especially sharp in Russia. The Slav
peoples that form the great bulk of her population are notoriously sensitive. Shut up for nearly
half the year by the rigours of winter, they naturally develop habits of brooding introspection
or coarse animalism--witness the plaintive strains of their folk-songs, the pessimism that
haunts their literature, and the dram-drinking habits of the peasantry. The Muscovite temperament
and the Muscovite climate naturally lead to idealist strivings against the hardships of life
or a dull grovelling amongst them. Melancholy or vodka is the outcome of it all.

The giant of the East was first aroused to a consciousness of his strength by the invasion
of Napoleon the Great. The comparative ease with which the Grand Army was engulfed left on
the national mind of Russia a consciousness of pride never to be lost even amidst the cruel
disappointments of the Crimean War. Holy Russia had once beaten back the forces of Europe marshalled
by the greatest captain of all time. She was therefore a match for the rest of the Continent.
Such was the belief of every patriotic Muscovite. As for the Turks, they were not worthy of
entering the lists against the soldiers of the Czar. Did not every decade bring further proofs
of the decline of the Ottomans in governing capacity and military prowess? They might harry
Bulgarian peasants and win laurels over the Servian militia. But how could that bankrupt State
and its undisciplined hordes hold up against the might of Russia and the fervour of her liberating
legions?

After the indulgence of these day dreams the disillusionment caused by the events at Plevna
came the more cruelly. One general after another became the scapegoat for the popular indignation.
Then the General Staff was freely censured, and whispers went round that the Grand Duke Nicholas,
brother of the Czar, was not only incompetent to conduct a great war, but guilty of underhand
dealings with the contractors who defrauded the troops and battened on the public funds. Letters
from the rank and file showed that the bread was bad, the shoes were rotten, the rifles outclassed
by those of the Turks, and that trenching-tools were lacking for many precious weeks[222].
Then, too, the Bulgarian peasants were found to be in a state of comfort superior to that of
the bulk of their liberators--a discovery which aroused in the Russian soldiery feelings like
those of the troops of the old French monarchy when they fought side by side with the soldiers
of Washington for the triumph of democracy in the New World. In both cases the lessons were
stored up, to be used when the champions of liberty returned home and found the old order of
things clanking on as slowly and rustily as ever.

[Footnote 222: Russia Before and After the War, translated by E.F. Taylor (London, 1880), chap.
xvi.: "We have been cheated by blockheads, robbed by people whose incapacity was even greater
than their villainy."]

Finally, there came the crushing blow of the Treaty of Berlin. The Russian people had fought
for an ideal: they longed to see the cross take the place of the crescent which for five centuries
had flashed defiance to Christendom from the summit of St. Sofia at Constantinople. But Britain's
ironclads, Austria's legions, and German diplomacy barred the way in the very hour of triumph;
and Russia drew back. To the Slav enthusiasts of Moscow even the Treaty of San Stefano had
seemed a dereliction of a sacred duty; that of Berlin seemed the most cowardly of betrayals.
As the Princess Radziwill confesses in her Recollections--that event made Nihilism possible.

As usual, the populace, whether reactionary Slavophils or Liberals of the type of Western Europe,
vented its spleen on the Government. For a time the strongest bureaucracy in Europe was driven
to act on the defensive. The Czar returned stricken with asthma and prematurely aged by the
privations and cares of the campaign. The Grand Duke Nicholas was recalled from his command,
and, after bearing the signs of studied hostility of the Czarevitch, was exiled to his estates
in February 1879. The Government inspired contempt rather than fear; and a new spirit of independence
pervaded all classes. This was seen even as far back as February 1878, in the acquittal of
Vera Zazulich, a lady who had shot the Chief of the Police at St. Petersburg, by a jury consisting
of nobles and high officials; and the verdict, given in the face of damning evidence, was generally
approved. Similar crimes occurred nearly every week[223]. Everything therefore, favoured the
designs of those who sought to overthrow all government. In a word, the outcome of the war
was Nihilism.

[Footnote 223: Ibid. chap. xvii. The Government thereafter dispensed with the ordinary forms
of justice for political crimes and judged them by special Commissions.]

The father of this sombre creed was a wealthy Russian landlord named Bakunin; or rather, he
shares this doubtful honour with the Frenchman Prudhon. Bakunin, who was born in 1814, entered
on active life in the time of soulless repression inaugurated by the Czar Nicholas I. (1825-1855).
Disgusted by Russian bureaucracy, the youth eagerly drank in the philosophy of Western Europe,
especially that of Hegel. During a residence at Paris, he embraced and developed Prudhon's
creed that "property is theft," and sought to prepare the way for a crusade against all Governments
by forming the Alliance of Social Democracy (1869), which speedily became merged in the famous
"Internationale." Driven successively from France and Central Europe, he was finally handed
over to the Russians and sent to Siberia; thence he escaped to Japan and came to England, finally
settling in Switzerland. His writings and speeches did much to rouse the Slavs of Austria,
Poland, and Russia to a sense of their national importance, and of the duty of overthrowing
the Governments that cramped their energies.

As in the case of Prudhon his zeal for the non-existent and hatred of the actual bordered on
madness, as when he included most of the results of art, literature, and science in his comprehensive
anathemas. Nevertheless his crusade for destruction appealed to no small part of the sensitive
peoples of the Slavonic race, who, differing in many details, yet all have a dislike of repression
and a longing to have their "fling[224]." A union in a Panslavonic League for the overthrow
of the Houses of Romanoff, Hapsburg, and Hohenzollern promised to satisfy the vague longings
of that much-baffled race, whose name, denoting "glorious," had become the synonym for servitude
of the lowest type. Such was the creed that disturbed Eastern and Central Europe throughout
the period 1847-78, now and again developing a kind of iconoclastic frenzy among its votaries.

[Footnote 224: For this peculiarity and a consequent tendency to extremes, see Prof. G. Brandes
Impressions of Russia, p. 22.]

This revolutionary creed absorbed another of a different kind. The second creed was scientific
and self-centred; it had its origin in the Liberal movement of the sixties, when reforms set
in, even in governmental circles. The Czar, Alexander II., in 1861 freed the serfs from the
control of their lords, and allotted to them part of the plots which they had hitherto worked
on a servile tenure. For various reasons, which we cannot here detail, the peasants were far
from satisfied with this change, weighted, as it was, by somewhat onerous terms, irksome restrictions,
and warped sometimes by dishonest or hostile officials. Limited powers of local government
were also granted in 1864 to the local Zemstvos or land-organisations; but these again failed
to satisfy the new cravings for a real system of self-government; and the Czar, seeing that
his work produced more ferment than gratitude, began at the close of the sixties to fall back
into the old absolutist ways[225].

[Footnote 225: See Wallace's Russia, 2 vols.; Russia under the Tzars, by "Stepniak," vol. ii.
chap. xxix.; also two lectures on Russian affairs by Prof. Vinogradoff, in Lectures on the
History of the Nineteenth Century (Camb. 1902).]

At that time, too, a band of writers, of whom the novelist Turgenieff is the best known, were
extolling the triumphs of scientific research and the benefits of Western democracy. He it
was who adapted to scientific or ethical use the word "Nihilism" (already in use in France
to designate Prudhon's theories), so as to represent the revolt of the individual against the
religious creed and patriarchal customs of old Russia. "The fundamental principle of Nihilism,"
says "Stepniak," "was absolute individualism. It was the negation, in the name of individual
liberty, of all the obligations imposed upon the individual by society, by family life, and
by religion[226]."

[Footnote 226: Underground Russia, by "Stepniak," Introduction, p. 4. Or, as Turgenieff phrased
it in one of his novels: "a Nihilist is a man who submits to no authority, who accepts not
a single principle upon faith merely, however high such a principle may stand in the eyes of
men." In short, a Nihilist was an extreme individualist and rationalist.]

For a time these disciples of Darwin and Herbert Spencer were satisfied with academic protests
against autocracy; but the uselessness of such methods soon became manifest; the influence
of professors and philosophic Epicureans could never permeate the masses of Russia and stir
them to their dull depths. What "the intellectuals" needed was a creed which would appeal to
the many.

This they gained mainly from Bakunin. He had pointed the way to what seemed a practical policy,
the ownership of the soil of Russia by the Mirs, the communes of her myriad villages. As to
methods, he advocated a propaganda of violence. "Go among the people," he said, and convert
them to your aims. The example of the Paris Communists in 1871 enforced his pleas; and in the
subsequent years thousands of students, many of them of the highest families, quietly left
their homes, donned the peasants' garb, smirched their faces, tarred their hands, and went
into the villages or the factories in the hope of stirring up the thick sedimentary deposit
of the Russian system[227]. In many cases their utmost efforts ended in failure, the tragi-comedy
of which is finely set forth in Turgenieff's Virgin Soil. Still more frequently their goal
proved to be--Siberia. But these young men and women did not toil for nought. Their efforts
hastened the absorption of philosophic Nihilism in the creed of Prudhon and Bakunin. The Nihilist
of Turgenieff's day had been a hedonist of the clubs, or a harmless weaver of scientific Utopias;
the Nihilist of the new age was that most dangerous of men, a desperado girt with a fighting creed.

[Footnote 227: Russia in Revolution, by G.H. Perriss, pp. 204-206, 210-214; Arnaudo, I Nihilismo
(Turin, 1879). See, too, the chapters added by Sir D.M. Wallace to the new edition of his work
Russia (1905).]

The fusing of these two diverse elements was powerfully helped on by the white heat of indignation
that glowed throughout Russia when details of the official peculation and mismanagement of
the war with Turkey became known. Everything combined to discredit the Government; and enthusiasts
of all kinds felt that the days for scientific propaganda and stealthy agitation were past.
Voltaire must give way to Marat. It was time for the bomb and the dagger to do their work.

The new Nihilists organised an executive committee for the removal of the most obnoxious officials.
Its success was startling. To name only a few of their chief deeds: on August 15, 1878, a Chief
of the Police was slain near one of the Imperial Palaces at the capital; and, in February 1879,
the Governor of Kharkov was shot, the Nihilists succeeding in announcing his condemnation by
placards mysteriously posted up in every large town. In vain did the Government intervene and
substitute a military Commission in place of trial by jury. Exile and hanging only made the
Nihilists more daring, and on more than one occasion the Czar nearly fell a victim to their
desperadoes.

The most astounding of these attempts was the explosion of a mine under the banqueting-hall
of the Winter Palace at St. Petersburg on the evening of February 17, 1880, when the Imperial
family escaped owing to a delay in the arrival of the Grand Duke of Hesse. Ten soldiers were
killed and forty-eight wounded in and near the guard-room.

The Czar answered outrage by terrorism. A week after this outrage he issued a ukase suspending
the few remaining rights of local self-government hitherto spared by the reaction, and vesting
practically all executive powers in a special Commission, presided over by General Loris Melikoff.
This man was an Armenian by descent, and had distinguished himself as commander in the recent
war in Asia, the capture of Kars being largely due to his dispositions. To these warlike gifts,
uncommon in the Armenians of to-day, he added administrative abilities of a high order. Enjoying
in a peculiar degree the confidence of Alexander II., he was charged with the supervision of
all political trials and a virtual control of all the Governors-General of the Empire. Thereupon
the central committee of the Nihilists proclaimed war à outrance until the Czar conceded to
a popularly elected National Assembly the right to reform the life of Russia.

Here was the strength of the Nihilist party. By violent means it sought to extort what a large
proportion of the townsfolk wished for and found no means of demanding in a lawful manner.
Loris Melikoff, gifted with the shrewdness of his race, saw that the Government would effect
little by terrorism alone. Wholesale arrests, banishment, and hangings only added to the number
of the disaffected, especially as the condemned went to their doom with a calm heroism that
inspired the desire of imitation or revenge. Repression must clearly be accompanied by reforms
that would bridge over the gulf ever widening between the Government and the thinking classes
of the people. He began by persuading the Emperor to release several hundreds of suspects and
to relax the severe measures adopted against the students of the Universities. Lastly, he sought
to induce the Czar to establish representative institutions, for which even the nobles were
beginning to petition. Little by little he familiarised him with the plan of extending the
system of the Zemstvos, so that there should be elective councils for towns and provinces,
as well as delegations from the provincial noblesse. He did not propose to democratise the
central Government. In his scheme the deputies of nobles and representatives of provinces and
towns were to send delegates to the Council of State, a purely consultative body which Alexander
I. had founded in 1802.

Despite the tentative nature of these proposals, and the favourable reception accorded to them
by the Council of State, the Czar for several days withheld his assent. On March 9 he signed
the ukase, only to postpone its publication until March 12. Not until the morning of March
13 did he give the final order for its publication in the Messager Officiel. It was his last
act as lawgiver. On that day (March 1, and Sunday, in the Russian calendar) he went to the
usual military parade, despite the earnest warnings of the Czarevitch and Loris Melikoff as
to a rumoured Nihilist plot. To their pleadings he returned the answer, "Only Providence can
protect me, and when it ceases to do so, these Cossacks cannot possibly help." On his return,
alongside of the Catharine Canal, a bomb was thrown under his carriage; the explosion tore
the back off the carriage, injuring some of his Cossack escort, but leaving the Emperor unhurt.
True to his usual feelings of compassion, he at once alighted to inquire after the wounded.
This act cost him his life. Another Nihilist quickly approached and flung a bomb right at his
feet. As soon as the smoke cleared away, Alexander was seen to be frightfully mangled and lying
in his blood. He could only murmur, "Quick, home; carry to the Palace; there die." There, surrounded
by his dearest ones, Alexander II. breathed his last.

In striking down the liberator of the serfs when on the point of recurring to earlier and better
methods of rule, the Nihilists had dealt the death-blow to their own cause. As soon as the
details of the outrage were known, the old love for the Czar welled forth: his imperfections
in public and private life, the seeming weakness of his foreign policy, and his recent use
of terrorism against the party of progress were forgotten; and to the sensitive Russian nature,
ever prone to extremes, his figure stood forth as the friend of peace, and the would-be reformer,
hindered in his efforts by unwise advisers and an untoward destiny.

       *       *       *       *       *

His successor was a man cast in a different mould. It is one of the peculiarities of the recent
history of Russia that her rulers have broken away from the policy of their immediate predecessors,
to recur to that which they had discarded. The vague and generous Liberalism of Alexander I.
gave way in 1825 to the stern autocracy of his brother, Nicholas I. This being shattered by
the Crimean War, Alexander II. harked back to the ideals of his uncle, and that, too, in the
wavering and unsatisfactory way which had brought woe to that ruler and unrest to the people.
Alexander III., raised to the throne by the bombs of the revolutionaries, determined to mould
his policy on the principles of autocracy and orthodoxy. To pose as a reformer would have betokened
fear of the Nihilists; and the new ruler, gifted with a magnificent physique, a narrow mind,
and a stern will, ever based his conduct on elementary notions that appealed to the peasant
and the common soldier. In 1825 Nicholas I. had cowed the would-be rebels at his capital by
a display of defiant animal courage. Alexander III. resolved to do the like. He had always
been noted for a quiet persistence on which arguments fell in vain. The nickname, "bullock,"
which his father early gave him (shortened by his future subjects to "bull"), sufficiently
summed up the supremacy of the material over the mental that characterised the new ruler. Bismarck,
who knew him, had a poor idea of his abilities, and summed up his character by saying that
he looked at things from the point of view of a Russian peasant[228]. That remark supplies
a key to Russian politics during the years 1881-94.

[Footnote 228: Reminiscences of Bismarck, by S. Whitman, p. 114; Bismarck: some Secret Pages
of his History, by M. Busch, vol. iii. p. 150.]

At first, when informed by Melikoff that the late Czar was on the point of making the constitutional
experiment described above, Alexander III. exclaimed, "Change nothing in the orders of my father.
This shall count as his will and testament." If he had held to this generous resolve the world's
history would perhaps have been very different. Had he published his father's last orders;
had he appealed to the people, like another Antony over the corpse of Cæar, the enthusiastic
Slav temperament would have eagerly responded to this mark of Imperial confidence. Loyalty
to the throne and fury against the Nihilists would have been the dominant feelings of the age,
impelling all men to make the wisest use of the thenceforth sacred bequest of constitutional
freedom.

The man who is believed to have blighted these hopes was Pobyedonosteff, the Procureur of the
highest Ecclesiastical Court of the Empire. To him had been confided the education of the present
Czar; and the fervour of his orthodoxy, as well as the clear-cut simplicity of his belief in
old Muscovite customs, had gained complete ascendancy over the mind of his pupil. Different
estimates have been formed as to the character of Pobyedonosteff. In the eyes of some he is
a conscientious zealot who believes in the mission of Holy Russia to vivify an age corrupted
by democracy and unbelief; others regard him as the Russian Macchiavelli, straining his beliefs
to an extent which his reason rejects, in order to gain power through the mechanism of the
autocracy and the Greek Church. The thin face, passionless gaze, and coldly logical utterance
bespeak the politician rather than the zealot; yet there seems to be good reason for believing
that he is a "fanatic by reflection," not by temperament[229]. A volume of Reflections which
he has given to the world contains some entertaining judgments on the civilisation of the West.
It may be worth while to select a few, as showing the views of the man who, through his pupil,
influenced the fate of Russia and of the world.

[Footnote 229: Russia under Alexander III., by H. von Samson-Himmelstierna, Eng. ed. ch. vii.]

     Parliament is an institution serving for the satisfaction of
     the personal ambition, vanity, and self-interest of its
     members. The institution of Parliament is indeed one of the
     greatest illustrations of human delusion. . . . On the pediment
     of this edifice is inscribed, "All for the public good." This
     is no more than a lying formula: Parliamentarism is the
     triumph of egoism--its highest expression. . . .

     From the day that man first fell, falsehood has ruled the
     world--ruled it in human speech, in the practical business of
     life, in all its relations and institutions. But never did
     the Father of Lies spin such webs of falsehood of every kind
     as in this restless age. . . . The press is one of the falsest
     institutions of our time.

In the chapter "Power and Authority" the author holds up to the gaze of a weary world a refreshing
vision of a benevolent despotism which will save men in spite of themselves.

     Power is the depository of truth, and needs, above all
     things, men of truth, of clear intellects, of strong
     understandings, and of sincere speech, who know the limits of
     "yes" and "no," and never transcend them, etc[230].

[Footnote 230: Pobyedonosteff; his Reflections, Eng. ed.]

To this Muscovite Laud was now entrusted the task of drafting a manifesto in the interests
of "power" and "truth."

Meanwhile the Nihilists themselves had helped on the cause of reaction. Even before the funeral
of Alexander II. their executive committee had forwarded to his successor a document beseeching
him to give up arbitrary power and to take the people into his confidence. While purporting
to impose no conditions, the Nihilist chiefs urged him to remember that two measures were needful
preliminaries to any general pacification, namely, a general amnesty of all political offenders,
as being merely "executors of a hard civic duty"; and "the convocation of representatives of
all the Russian people for a revision and reform of all the private laws of the State, according
to the will of the nation." In order that the election of this Assembly might be a reality,
the Czar was pressed to grant freedom of speech and of public meetings[231].

[Footnote 231: The whole document is printed in the Appendix to "Stepniak's" Underground Russia.]

It is difficult to say whether the Nihilists meant this document as an appeal, or whether the
addition of the demand of a general amnesty was intended to anger the Czar and drive him into
the arms of the reactionaries. In either case, to press for the immediate pardon of his father's
murderers appeared to Alexander III. an unpardonable insult. Thenceforth between him and the
revolutionaries there could be no truce. As a sop to quiet the more moderate reformers, he
ordered the appointment of a Commission, including a few members of Zemstvos, and even one
peasant, to inquire into the condition of public-houses and the excessive consumption of vodka.
Beyond this humdrum though useful question the imperial reformer did not deign to move.

After a short truce, the revolutionaries speedily renewed their efforts against the chief officials
who were told off to crush them; but it soon became clear that they had lost the good-will
of the middle class. The Liberals looked on them, not merely as the murderers of the liberating
Czar, but as the destroyers of the nascent constitution; and the masses looked on unmoved while
five of the accomplices in the outrage of March 13 were slowly done to death. In the next year
twenty-two more suspects were arrested on the same count; ten were hanged and the rest exiled
to Siberia. Despite these inroads into the little band of desperadoes, the survivors compassed
the murder of the Public Prosecutor as he sat in a café at Odessa (March 30, 1882). On the
other hand, the official police were helped for a time by zealous loyalists, who formed a "Holy
Band" for secretly countermining the Nihilist organisation. These amateur detectives, however,
did little except appropriate large donations, arrest a few harmless travellers and no small
number of the secret police force. The professionals thereupon complained to the Czar, who
suppressed the "Holy Band."

The events of the years 1883 and 1884 showed that even the army, on which the Czar was bestowing
every care, was permeated with Nihilism, women having by their arts won over many officers
to the revolutionary cause. Poland, also, writhing with discontent under the Czar's stern despotism,
was worked on with success by their emissaries; and the ardour of the Poles made the recruits
especially dangerous to the authorities, ever fearful of another revolt in that unhappy land.
Finally, the Czar was fain to shut himself up in nearly complete seclusion in his palace at
Gatchina, near St. Petersburg, or in his winter retreat at Livadia, on the southern shores
of the Crimea.

These facts are of more than personal and local importance. They powerfully affected the European
polity. These were the years which saw the Bulgarian Question come to a climax; and the impotence
of Russia enabled that people and their later champions to press on to a solution which would
have been impossible had the Czar been free to strike as he undoubtedly willed. For the present
he favoured the cause of peace upheld by his chancellor, de Giers; and in the autumn of the
year 1884, as will be shown in the following chapter, he entered into a compact at Skiernewice,
which virtually allotted to Bismarck the arbitration on all urgent questions in the Balkans.
As late as November 1885, we find Sir Robert Morier, British ambassador at the Russian Court,
writing privately and in very homely phrase to his colleague at Constantinople, Sir William
White: "I am convinced Russia does not want a general war in Europe about Turkey now, and that
she is really suffering from a gigantic Katzenjammer (surfeit) caused by the last war[232]."
It is safe to say that Bulgaria largely owes her freedom from Russian control to the Nihilists.

[Footnote 232: Memoirs and Correspondence of Sir William White, edited by H.S. Edwards, ch. xviii.]

For the Czar the strain of prolonged warfare against unseen and desperate foes was terrible.
Surrounded by sentries, shadowed by secret police, the lonely man yet persisted in governing
with the assiduity and thoroughness of the great Napoleon. He tried to pry into all the affairs
of his vast empire; and, as he held aloof even from his chief Ministers, he insisted that they
should send to him detailed reports on all the affairs of State, foreign and domestic, military
and naval, religious and agrarian. What wonder that the Nihilists persisted in their efforts,
in the hope that even his giant strength must break down under the crushing burdens of toil
and isolation. That he held up so long shows him to have been one of the strongest men and
most persistent workers known to history. He had but one source of inspiration, religious zeal,
and but one form of relaxation, the love of his devoted Empress.

It is needless to refer to the later phases of the revolutionary movement. Despite their well-laid
plans, the revolutionaries gradually lost ground; and in 1892 even Stepniak confessed that
they alone could not hope to overthrow the autocracy. About that time, too, their party began
to split in twain, a younger group claiming that the old terrorist methods must be replaced
by economic propaganda of an advanced socialistic type among the workers of the towns. For
this new departure and its results we must refer our readers to the new materials brought to
light by Sir D. Mackenzie Wallace in the new edition of his work Russia (1905).

Here we can point out only a few of the more general causes that contributed to the triumph
of the Czar. In the first place, the difficulties in the way of common action among the proletariat
of Russia are very great. Millions of peasants, scattered over vast plains, where the great
struggle is ever against the forces of nature, cannot effectively combine. Students of history
will observe that even where the grievances are mainly agrarian, as in the France of 1789,
the first definite outbreak is wont to occur in great towns. Russia has no Paris, eager to
voice the needs of the many.

Then again, the Russian peasants are rooted in customs and superstitions which cling about
the Czar with strange tenacity and are proof against the reasoning of strangers. Their rising
could, therefore, be very partial; besides which, the land is for the most part unsuited to
the guerilla tactics that so often have favoured the cause of liberty in mountainous lands.
The Czar and his officials know that the strength of their system lies in the ignorance of
the peasants, in the soldierly instincts of their immense army, and in the spread of railways
and telegraphs, which enables the central power to crush the beginnings of revolt. Thus the
Czar's authority, resting incongruously on a faith dumb and grovelling as that of the Dark
Ages, and on the latest developments of mechanical science, has been able to defy the tendencies
of the age and the strivings of Russian reformers.

       *       *       *       *       *

The aim of this work prescribes a survey of those events alone which have made modern States
what they are to-day; but the victory of absolutism in Russia has had so enormous an influence
on the modern world--not least in the warping of democracy in France--that it will be well
to examine the operation of other forces which contributed to the set back of reform in that
Empire, especially as they involved a change in the relations of the central power to alien
races in general, and to the Grand Duchy of Finland in particular.

These forces, or ideals, may be summed up in the old Slavophil motto, "Orthodoxy, Autocracy,
Nationality." These old Muscovite ideals had lent strength to Nicholas I. in his day; and his
grandson now determined to appeal to the feeling of Nationality in its narrowest and strongest
form. That instinct, which Mazzini looked on as the means of raising in turn all the peoples
of the world to the loftier plane of Humanity, was now to be the chief motive in the propulsion
of the Juggernaut car of the Russian autocracy.

The first to feel the weight of the governmental machine were the Jews. Rightly or wrongly,
they were thought to be concerned in the peculations that disgraced the campaign of 1877 and
in the plot for the murder of Alexander II. In quick succession the officials and the populace
found out that outrages on the Jews would not be displeasing at headquarters. The secret once
known, the rabble of several towns took the law into their own hands. In scores of places throughout
the years 1881 and 1882, the mob plundered and fired their shops and houses, beat the wretched
inmates, and in some cases killed them outright. At Elisabetgrad and Kiev the Jewish quarters
were systematically pillaged and then given over to the flames. The fury reached its climax
at the small town of Balta; the rabble pillaged 976 Jewish houses, and, not content with seizing
all the wealth that came to hand, killed eight of the traders, besides wounding 211 others.

Doubtless these outrages were largely due to race-hatred as well as to spite on the part of
the heedless, slovenly natives against the keen and grasping Hebrews. The same feelings have
at times swept over Roumania, Austria, Germany, and France. Jew-baiting has appealed even to
nominally enlightened peoples as a novel and profitable kind of sport; and few of its votaries
have had the hypocritical effrontery to cloak their conduct under the plea of religious zeal.
The movement has at bottom everywhere been a hunt after Jewish treasure, embittered by the
hatred of the clown for the successful trader, of the individualist native for an alien, clannish,
and successful community. In Russia religious motives may possibly have weighed with the Czar
and the more ignorant and bigoted of the peasantry; but levelling and communistic ideas certainly
accounted for the widespread plundering--witness the words often on the lips of the rioters:
"We are breakfasting on the Jews; we shall dine on the landlords, and sup on the priests."
In 1890 there appeared a ukase ordering the return of the Jews to those provinces and districts
where they had been formerly allowed to settle--that is, chiefly in the South and West; and
all foreign Jews were expelled from the Empire. It is believed that as many as 225,000 Jewish
families left Russia in the sixteen months following[233].

[Footnote 233: Rambaud, Histoire de la Russie, ch. xxxviii.; Lowe, Alexander III. of Russia,
ch. viii.; H. Frederic, The New Exodus; Professor Errera, The Russian Jews.]

The next onslaught was made against a body of Christian dissenters, the humble community known
as Stundists. These God-fearing peasants had taken a German name because the founder of their
sect had been converted at the Stunden, or hour-long services, of German Lutherans long settled
in the south of Russia; they held a simple evangelical faith; their conduct was admittedly
far better than that of the peasants, who held to the mass of customs and superstitions dignified
by the name of the orthodox Greek creed; and their piety and zeal served to spread the evangelical
faith, especially among the more emotional people of South Russia, known as Little Russians.

Up to the year 1878, Alexander II. refrained from persecuting them, possibly because he felt
some sympathy with men who were fast raising themselves and their fellows above the old level
of brutish ignorance. But in that year the Greek Church pressed him to take action. If he chastised
them with whips, his son lashed them with scorpions. He saw that they were sapping the base
of one of the three pillars that supported the imperial fabric--Orthodoxy, in the Russian sense.
Orders went forth to stamp out the heretic pest. At once all the strength of the governmental
machine was brought to bear on these non-resisting peasants. Imprisonment, exile, execution--such
was their lot. Their communities, perhaps the happiest then to be found in rural Russia, were
broken up, to be flung into remote corners of Transcaucasia or Siberia, and there doomed to
the régime of the knout or the darkness of the mines[234]. According to present appearances
the persecutors have succeeded. The evangelical faith seems to have been almost stamped out
even in South Russia; and the Greek Church has regained its hold on the allegiance, if not
on the beliefs and affections, of the masses.

[Footnote 234: See an article by Count Leo Tolstoy in the Contemporary Review for November
1895; also a pamphlet on "The Stundists," with Preface by Rev. J. Brown, D.D.]

To account for this fact, we must remember the immense force of tradition and custom among
a simple rural folk, also that very many Russians sincerely believe that their institutions
and their national creed were destined to regenerate Europe. See, they said in effect, Western
Europe oscillates between papal control and free thought; its industries, with their laissez
faire methods, raise the few to enormous wealth and crush the many into a new serfdom worse
than the old. For all these evils Russia has a cure; her autocracy saves her from the profitless
wrangling of Parliaments; her national Church sums up the beliefs and traditions of nobles
and peasants; and at the base of her social system she possesses in the "Mir" a patriarchal
communism against which the forces of the West will beat in vain. Looking on the Greek Church
as a necessary part of the national life, they sought to wield its powers for nationalising
all the races of that motley Empire. "Russia for the Russians," cried the Slavophils. "Let
us be one people, with one creed. Let us reverence the Czar as head of the Church and of the
State. In this unity lies our strength." However defective the argument logically, yet in the
realm of sentiment, in which the Slavs live, move, and have their being, the plea passed muster.
National pride was pressed into the service of the persecutors; and all dissenters, whether
Roman Catholics of Poland, Lutherans of the Baltic Provinces, or Stundists of the Ukraine,
felt the remorseless grinding of the State machine, while the Greek Church exalted its horn
as it had not done for a century past.

Other sides of this narrowly nationalising policy were seen in the determined repression of
Polish feelings, of the Germans in the Baltic provinces, and of the Armenians of Transcaucasia.
Finally, remorseless pressure was brought to bear on that interesting people, the Finns. We
can here refer only to the last of these topics. The Germans in the Provinces of Livonia, Courland,
and Esthonia formed the majority only among the land-holding and merchant classes; and the
curbing of their semi-feudal privileges wore the look of a democratic reform.

       *       *       *       *       *

The case was far different with the Finns. They are a non-Aryan people, and therefore differ
widely from the Swedes and Russians. For centuries they formed part of the Swedish monarchy,
deriving thence in large measure their literature, civilisation, and institutions. To this
day the Swedish tongue is used by about one-half of their gentry and burghers. On the annexation
of Finland by Alexander I., in consequence of the Franco-Russian compact framed at Tilsit in
1807, he made to their Estates a solemn promise to respect their constitution and laws. Similar
engagements have been made by his successors. Despite some attempts by Nicholas I. to shelve
the constitution of the Grand Duchy, local liberties remained almost intact up to a comparatively
recent time. In the year 1869 the Finns gained further guarantees of their rights. Alexander
II. then ratified the laws of Finland, and caused a statement of the relations between Finland
and Russia to be drawn up.

In view of the recent struggle between the Czar and the Finnish people, it may be well to give
a sketch of their constitution. The sovereign governs, not as Emperor of Russia, but as Grand
Duke of Finland. He delegates his administrative powers to a Senate, which is presided over
by a Governor-General. This important official, as a matter of fact, has always been a Russian;
his powers are, or rather were[235], shared by two sections of the Finnish Senate, each composed
of ten members nominated by the Grand Duke. The Senate prepares laws and ordinances which the
Grand Duke then submits to the Diet. This body consists of four Orders--nobles, clergy, burghers,
and peasants. Since 1886 it has enjoyed to a limited extent the right of initiating laws. The
Orders sit and vote separately. In most cases a resolution that is passed by three of them
becomes law, when it has received the assent of the Grand Duke. But the assent of a majority
in each of the four Orders is needed in the case of a proposal that affects the constitution
of the Grand Duchy and the privileges of the Orders. In case a Bill is accepted by two Orders
and is rejected by the other two, a deadlock is averted by each of the Orders appointing fifteen
delegates; these sixty delegates, meeting without discussion, vote by ballot, and a bare majority
carries the day. Measures are then referred to the Grand Duke, who, after consulting the Senate,
gives or witholds his assent[236].

[Footnote 235: A law of the autumn of 1902 altered this. It delegated the administration to
the Governor-General, assisted by the Senate.]

[Footnote 236: For the constitution of Finland and its relation to Russia, see A Précis of
the Public Law of Finland, by L. Mechelin, translated by C.J. Cooke (1889); Pour la Finlande,
par Jean Deck; Pour la Finlande, La Constitution du Grand Duché de Finlande (Paris, 1900).
J.R. Danielsson, Finland's Union with the Russian Empire (Borga, 1891).]

A very important clause of the law of 1869 declares that "Fundamental laws can be made, altered,
explained, or repealed, only on the representation of the Emperor and Grand Duke, and with
the consent of all the Estates." This clause sharply marked off Finland from Russia, where
the power of the Czar is theoretically unlimited. New taxes may not be imposed nor old taxes
altered without the consent of the Finnish Diet; but, strange to say, the customs dues are
fixed by the Government (that is, by the Grand Duke and the Senate) without the co-operation
of the Diet. Despite the archaic form of its representation, the Finnish constitution (an offshoot
of that of Sweden) has worked extremely well; and in regard to civil freedom and religious
toleration, the Finns take their place among the most progressive communities of the world.
Moreover, the constitution is no recent and artificial creation; it represents customs and
beliefs that are deeply ingrained in a people who, like their Magyar kinsmen, cling firmly
to the old, even while they hopefully confront the facts of the present. There was every ground
for hope. Between the years 1812 and 1886 the population grew from 900,000 to 2,300,000, and
the revenue from less than 7,000,000 marks (a Finnish mark = about ten pence) to 40,000,000 marks.

Possibly this prosperity prompted in the Russian bureaucracy the desire to bring the Grand
Duchy closely into line with the rest of the Empire. On grounds other than constitutional,
the bureaucrats had a case. They argued that while the revenue of Finland was increasing faster
than that of Russia Proper, yet the Grand Duchy bore no share of the added military burdens.
It voted only 17 per cent of its revenue for military defence as against 28 per cent set apart
in the Russian Budget. The fact that the Swedish and Finnish languages, as well as Finnish
money, were alone used on the railways of the Grand Duchy, even within a few miles of St. Petersburg,
also formed a cause of complaint. When, therefore, the Slavophils began to raise a hue and
cry against everything that marred the symmetry of the Empire, an anti-Finnish campaign lay
in the nature of things. Historical students discovered that the constitution was the gift
of the Czars, and that their goodwill had been grossly misused by the Finns. Others, who could
not deny the validity of the Finnish constitution, claimed that even constitutions and laws
must change with changing circumstances; that a narrow particularism was out of place in an
age of railways and telegraphs; and that Finland must take its fair share in the work of national
defence[237].

[Footnote 237: See for the Russian case d'Elenew, Les Prétentions des Séparatistes finlandais
(1895); also La Conquête de la Finlande, by K. Ordine (1889)--answered by J.R. Danielsson,
op. cit.; also Russland und Finland vom russischen Standpunkte aus betrachtet, by "Sarmatus"
(1903).]

Little by little Alexander III. put in force this Slavophil creed against Finland. His position
as Grand Duke gave him the right of initiating laws; but he overstepped his constitutional
powers by imposing various changes. In January 1890 he appointed three committees, sitting
at St. Petersburg, to bring the coinage, the customs system, and the postal service of Finland
into harmony with those of Russia. In June there appeared an imperial ukase assimilating the
postal service of Finland to that of Russia--an illegal act which led to the resignation of
the Finnish Ministers. In May 1891 the "Committee for Finnish Affairs," sitting at St. Petersburg,
was abolished; and that year saw other efforts curbing the liberty of the Press, and extending
the use of the Russian language in the government of the Grand Duchy.

The trenches having now been pushed forward against the outworks of Finnish freedom, an assault
was prepared against the ramparts--the constitution itself. The assailants discovered in it
a weak point, a lack of clearness in the clauses specifying the procedure to be followed in
matters where common action had to be taken in Finland and in Russia. They saw here a chance
of setting up an independent authority, which, under the guise of interpreting the constitution,
could be used for its suspension and overthrow. A committee, consisting of six Russians and
four Finns, was appointed at the close of the year 1892 to codify laws and take the necessary
action. It sat at St. Petersburg; but the opposition of the Finnish members, backed up by the
public opinion of the whole Duchy, sufficed to postpone any definite decision. Probably this
time of respite was due to the reluctance felt by Alexander III. in his closing days to push
matters to an extreme.

The alternating tendencies so well marked in the generations of the Romanoff rulers made themselves
felt at the accession of Nicholas II. (Nov. 1, 1894). Lacking the almost animal force which
carried Alexander III. so far in certain grooves, he resembles the earlier sovereigns of that
name in the generous cosmopolitanism and dreamy good nature which shed an autumnal haze over
their careers. Unfortunately the reforming Czars have been without the grit of the crowned
Boyars, who trusted in Cossack, priest, and knout; and too often they have bent before the
reactionary influences always strong at the Russian Court. To this peculiarity in the nature
of Nicholas II. we may probably refer the oscillations in his Finnish policy. In the first
years of his reign he gradually abated the rigour of his father's regime, and allowed greater
liberty of the Press in Finland. The number of articles suppressed sank from 216 in the year
1893 to 40 in 1897[238].

[Footnote 238: Pour la Finlande, par Jean Deck, p. 36.]

The hopes aroused by this display of moderation soon vanished. Early in 1898 the appointment
of General Kuropatkin to the Ministry for War for Russia foreboded evil to the Grand Duchy.
The new Minister speedily counselled the exploitation of the resources of Finland for the benefit
of the Empire. Already the Russian General Staff had made efforts in this direction; and now
Kuropatkin, supported by the whole weight of the Slavophil party, sought to convince the Czar
of the danger of leaving the Finns with a separate military organisation. A military committee,
in which there was only one Finn, the Minister Procope, had for some time been sitting at St.
Petersburg, and finally gained over Nicholas II. to its views. He is said to have formed his
final decision during his winter stay at Livadia in the Crimea, owing to the personal intervention
of Kuropatkin, and that too in face of a protest from the Finnish Minister, Procope, against
the suspension by imperial ukase of a fundamental law of the Grand Duchy. The Czar must have
known of the unlawfulness of the present procedure, for on November 6/18, 1894, shortly after
his accession, he signed the following declaration:--

     . . . We have hereby desired to confirm and ratify the
     religion, the fundamental laws, the rights and privileges of
     every class in the said Grand Duchy, in particular, and all
     its inhabitants high and low in general, which they,
     according to the constitution of this country, had enjoyed,
     promising to preserve the same steadfastly and in full
     force[239].

[Footnote 239: The Rights of Finland, p. 4 (Stockholm 1899). See too for the whole question
Finland and the Tsars, 1809-1899, by J.R. Fisher (London, 2nd Edit. 1900).]

The military system of Finland having been definitely organised by the Finnish law of 1878,
that statute clearly came within the scope of those "fundamental laws" which Nicholas II. had
promised to uphold in full force. We can imagine, then, the astonishment which fell on the
Finnish Diet and people on the presentation of the famous Imperial Manifesto of February 3/15,
1899. While expressing a desire to leave purely Finnish affairs to the consideration of the
Government and Diet of the Grand Duchy, the Czar warned his Finnish subjects that there were
others that could not be so treated, seeing that they were "closely bound up with the needs
of the whole Empire." As the Finnish constitution pointed out no way of treating such subjects,
it was needful now to complete the existing institutions of the Duchy. The Manifesto proceded
as follows:--

     Whilst maintaining in full force the now prevailing statutes
     which concern the promulgation of local laws touching
     exclusively the internal affairs of Finland, We have found it
     necessary to reserve to Ourselves the ultimate decision as to
     which laws come within the scope of the general legislation
     of the Empire. With this in view, We have with Our Royal Hand
     established and confirmed the fundamental statutes for the
     working out, revision, and promulgation of laws issued for
     the Empire, including the Grand Duchy of Finland, which are
     proclaimed simultaneously herewith[240].

[Footnote 240: The Rights of Finland, pp. 6-7 also in Pour la Finlande, par J. Deck, p. 43.]

The accompanying enactments made it clear that the Finnish Diet would thenceforth have only
consultative duties in respect to any measure which seemed to the Czar to involve the interests
of Russia as well as of Finland. In fact, the proposals of February 15 struck at the root of
the constitution, subjecting it in all important matters to the will of the autocrat at St.
Petersburg. At once the Finns saw the full extent of the calamity. They observed the following
Sunday as a day of mourning; the people of Helsingfors, the capital, gathered around the statue
of Alexander II., the organiser of their liberties, as a mute appeal to the generous instincts
of his grandson. Everywhere, even in remote villages, solemn meetings of protest were held;
but no violent act marred the impressiveness of these demonstrations attesting the surprise
and grief of a loyal people.

By an almost spontaneous impulse a petition was set on foot begging the Czar to reconsider
his decision. If ever a petition deserved the name "national," it was that of Finland. Towns
and villages signed almost en masse. Ski-runners braved the hardships of a severe winter in
the effort to reach remote villages within the Arctic Circle; and within five days (March 10-14)
529,931 names were signed, the marks of illiterates being rejected. All was in vain. The Czar
refused to receive the petition, and ordered the bearers of it to return home[241].

[Footnote 241: The Rights of Finland, pp. 23-30.]

The Russian Governor-General of Finland then began a brisk campaign against the Finnish newspapers.
Four were promptly suppressed, while there were forty-three cases of "suspension" in the year
1899 alone. The public administration also underwent a drastic process of russification, Finnish
officials and policemen being in very many cases ousted by Muscovites. Early in the year 1901
local postage stamps gave place to those of the Empire. Above all, General Kuropatkin was able
almost completely to carry out his designs against the Finnish army, the law of 1901 practically
abolishing the old constitutional force and compelling Finns to serve in any part of the Empire--in
defiance of the old statutes which limited their services to the Grand Duchy itself.

The later developments of this interesting question fall without the scope of this volume.
We can therefore only state that the steadfast opposition of the Finns to these illegal proceedings
led to still harsher treatment, and that the few concessions granted since the outbreak of
the Japanese War have apparently failed to soothe the resentment aroused by the former unprovoked
attacks upon the liberties of Finland.

       *       *       *       *       *

One fact, which cannot fail to elicit the attention of thoughtful students of contemporary
history, is the absence of able leaders in the popular struggles of the age. Whether we look
at the orderly resistance of the Finns, the efforts of the Russian revolutionaries, or the
fitful efforts now and again put forth by the Poles, the same discouraging symptom is everywhere
apparent. More than once the hour seemed to have struck for the overthrow of the old order,
but no man appeared. Other instances might of course be cited to show that the adage about
the hour and the man is more picturesque than true. The democratic movements of 1848-49 went
to pieces largely owing to the coyness of the requisite hero. Or rather, perhaps, we ought
to say that the heroes were there, in the persons of Cavour and Garibaldi, Bismarck and Moltke;
but no one was at hand to set them in the places which they filled so ably in 1858-70. Will
the future see the hapless, unguided efforts of to-day championed in an equally masterful way?
If so, the next generation may see strange things happen in Russia, as also elsewhere.

Two suggestions may be advanced, with all diffidence, as to the reasons for the absence of
great leaders in the movements of to-day. As we noted in the chapter dealing with the suppression
of the Paris Commune of 1871, the centralised Governments now have a great material advantage
in dealing with local disaffection owing to their control of telegraphs, railways, and machine-guns.
This fact tells with crushing force, not only at the time of popular rising, but also on the
men who work to that end. Little assurance was needed in the old days to compass the overthrow
of Italian Dukes and German Translucencies. To-day he would be a man of boundlessly inspiring
power who could hopefully challenge Czar or Kaiser to a conflict. The other advantage which
Governments possess is in the intellectual sphere. There can be no doubt that the mere size
of the States and Governments of the present age exercises a deadening effect on the minds
of individuals. As the vastness of London produces inertia in civic affairs, so, too, the great
Empires tend to deaden the initiative and boldness of their subjects. Those priceless qualities
are always seen to greatest advantage in small States like the Athens of Pericles, the England
of Elizabeth, or the Geneva of Rousseau; they are stifled under the pyramidal mass of the Empire
of the Czars; and as a result there is seen a respectable mediocrity, equal only to the task
of organising street demonstrations and abortive mutinies. It may be that in the future some
commanding genius will arise, able to free himself from the paralysing incubus, to fire the
dull masses with hope, and to turn the very vastness of the governmental machine into a means
of destruction. But, for that achievement, he will need the magnetism of a Mirabeau, the savagery
of a Marat, and the organising powers of a Bonaparte.

CHAPTER XII

THE TRIPLE AND DUAL ALLIANCES

     "International policy is a fluid element which, under certain
     conditions, will solidify, but, on a change of atmosphere,
     reverts to its original condition."--Bismarck's Reflections
     and Reminiscences.

It is one thing to build up a system of States: it is quite another thing to guarantee their
existence. As in the life of individuals, so in that of nations, longevity is generally the
result of a sound constitution, a healthy environment, and prudent conduct. That the new States
of Europe possessed the first two of these requisites will be obvious to all who remember that
they are co-extensive with those great limbs of Humanity, nations. Yet even so they needed
protection from the intrigues of jealous dynasties and of dispossessed princes or priests,
which have so often doomed promising experiments to failure. It is therefore essential to our
present study to observe the means which endowed the European system with stability.

Here again the master-builder was Bismarck. As he had concentrated all the powers of his mind
on the completion of German unity (with its natural counterpart in Italy), so, too, he kept
them on the stretch for its preservation. For two decades his policy bestrode the continent
like a Colossus. It rested on two supporting ideas. The one was the maintenance of alliance
with Russia, which had brought the events of the years 1863-70 within the bounds of possibility;
the other aim was the isolation of France. Subsidiary notions now and again influenced him,
as in 1884 when he sought to make bad blood between Russia and England in Central Asian affairs
(see Chapter XIV.), or to busy all the Powers in colonial undertakings: but these considerations
were secondary to the two main motives, which at one point converged and begot a haunting fear
(the realisation of which overclouded his last years) that Russia and France would unite against
Germany.

In order, as he thought, to obviate for ever a renewal of the "policy of Tilsit" of the year
1807, he sought to favour the establishment of the Republic in France. In his eyes, the more
Radical it was the better: and when Count von Arnim, the German ambassador at Paris, ventured
to contravene his instructions in this matter, he subjected him to severe reproof and finally
to disgrace. However harsh in his methods, Bismarck was undoubtedly right in substance. The
main consideration was that which he set forth in his letter of December 20, 1872, to the Count:--"We
want France to leave us in peace, and we have to prevent France finding an ally if she does
not keep the peace. As long as France has no allies she is not dangerous to Germany." A monarchical
reaction, he thought, might lead France to accord with Russia or Austria. A Republic of the
type sought for by Gambetta could never achieve that task. Better, then, the red flag waving
at Paris than the fleur-de-lys.

Still more important was it to bring about complete accord between the three empires. Here
again the red spectre proved to be useful. Various signs seemed to point to socialism as the
common enemy of them all. The doctrines of Bakunin, Herzen, and Lassalle had already begun
to work threateningly in their midst, and Bismarck discreetly used this community of interest
in one particular to bring about an agreement on matters purely political. In the month of
September 1872 he realised one of his dearest hopes. The Czar, Alexander II., and the Austrian
Emperor, Francis Joseph, visited Berlin, where they were most cordially received. At that city
the chancellors of the three empires exchanged official memoranda--there seems to have been
no formal treaty[242]--whereby they agreed to work together for the following purposes: the
maintenance of the boundaries recently laid down, the settlement of problems arising from the
Eastern Question, and the repression of revolutionary movements in Europe.

[Footnote 242: In his speech of February 19, 1878, Bismarck said, "The liaison of the three
Emperors, which is habitually designated an alliance, rests on no written agreement and does
not compel any one of the three Emperors to submit to the decisions of the two others."]

Such was the purport of the Three Emperors' League of 1872. There is little doubt that Bismarck
had worked on the Czar, always nervous as to the growth of the Nihilist movement in Russia,
in order to secure his adhesion to the first two provisions of the new compact, which certainly
did not benefit Russia. The German Chancellor has since told us that, as early as the month
of September 1870, he sought to form such a league, with the addition of the newly-united Italian
realm, in order to safeguard the interests of monarchy against republicans and revolutionaries[243].
After the lapse of two years his wish took effect, though Italy as yet did not join the cause
of order. The new league stood forth as the embodiment of autocracy and a terror to the dissatisfied,
whether revengeful Gauls, Danes, or Poles, intriguing cardinals--it was the time of the "May
Laws"--or excited men who waved the red flag. It was a new version of the Holy Alliance formed
after Waterloo by the monarchs of the very same Powers, which, under the plea of watching against
French enterprises, succeeded in bolstering up despotism on the Continent for a whole generation.
Either because the dangers against which it guarded were less serious, or owing to the jealousies
which strained its structure from within, signs of weakness soon appeared, and the imposing
fabric was disfigured by cracks which all the plastering of diplomatists failed to conceal.
An eminent Russian historian, M. Tatischeff, has recently discovered the hidden divulsive agency.
It seems that, not long after the formation of the Three Emperors' League, Germany and Austria
secretly formed a separate compact, whereby the former agreed eventually to secure to the latter
due compensation in the Balkan Peninsula for her losses in the wars of 1859 and 1866 (Lombardy,
Venetia, and the control of the German Confederation, along with Holstein)[244].

[Footnote 244: The Emperor Alexander II.: His Life and Reign, by S.S. Tatischeff (St. Petersburg,
1903), Appendix to vol. ii.]

That is, the two Central Powers in 1872 secretly agreed to take action in the way in which
Austria advanced in 1877-78, when she secured Herzegovina. When and to what extent Russian
diplomatists became aware of this separate agreement is not known, but their suspicion or their
resentment appears to have prompted them to the unfriendly action towards Germany which they
took in the year 1875. According to the Bismarck Reflections and Reminiscences, the Russian
Chancellor, Prince Gortchakoff, felt so keenly jealous of the rapid rise of the German Chancellor
to fame and pre-eminence as to spread "the lie" that Germany was about to fall upon France.
Even the uninitiated reader might feel some surprise that the Russian Chancellor should have
endangered the peace of Europe and his own credit as a statesman for so slight a motive; but
it now seems that Bismarck's assertion must be looked on as a "reflection," not as a "reminiscence."

The same remark may perhaps apply to his treatment of the "affair of 1875," which largely determined
the future groupings of the Powers. At that time the recovery of France from the wounds of
1870 was well nigh complete; her military and constitutional systems were taking concrete form;
and in the early part of the year 1875 the Chambers decreed a large increase to the armed forces
in the form of "the fourth battalions." At once the military party at Berlin took alarm, and
through their chief, Moltke, pressed on the Emperor William the need of striking promptly at
France. The Republic, so they argued, could not endure the strain which it now voluntarily
underwent; the outcome must be war; and war at once would be the most statesmanlike and merciful
course. Whether the Emperor in any way acceded to these views is not known. He is said to have
more than once expressed a keen desire to end his reign in peace.

The part which Bismarck played at this crisis is also somewhat obscure. If the German Government
wished to attack France, the natural plan would have been to keep that design secret until
the time for action arrived. But it did not do so. Early in the month of April, von Radowitz,
a man of high standing at the Court of Berlin, took occasion to speak to the French ambassador,
de Gontaut-Biron, at a ball, and warned him in the most significant manner of the danger of
war owing to the increase of French armaments. According to de Blowitz, the Paris correspondent
of the Times (who had his information direct from the French Premier, the Duc Decazes), Germany
intended to "bleed France white" by compelling her finally to pay ten milliards of francs in
twenty instalments, and by keeping an army of occupation in her Eastern Departments until the
last half-milliard was paid. The French ambassador also states in his account of these stirring
weeks that Bismarck had mentioned to the Belgian envoy the impossibility of France keeping
up armaments, the outcome of which must be war[245].

[Footnote 245: De Blowitz, Memoirs, ch. v.; An Ambassador of the Vanquished (ed. by the Duc
de Broglie), pp. 180 et seq. Probably the article "Krieg in Sicht," published in the Berlin
Post of April 15, 1875, was "inspired."]

As Radowitz continued in favour with Bismarck, his disclosure of German intentions seems to
have been made with the Chancellor's approval; and we may explain his action as either a threat
to compel France to reduce her army, a provocation to lead her to commit some indiscretion,
or a means of undermining the plans of the German military party. Leaving these questions on
one side, we may note that Gontaut-Biron's report to the Duc Decazes produced the utmost anxiety
in official circles at Paris. The Duke took the unusual step of confiding the secret to Blowitz,
showed him the document, along with other proofs of German preparations for war, and requested
him to publish the chief facts in the Times. Delane, the editor of the Times, having investigated
the affair, published the information on May 4. It produced an immense sensation. The Continental
Press denounced it as an impudent fabrication designed to bring on war. We now know that it
was substantially correct. Meanwhile Marshal MacMahon and the Duc Decazes had taken steps to
solicit the help of the Czar if need arose. They despatched to St. Petersburg General Leflô,
armed with proofs of the hostile designs of the German military chiefs. A perusal of them convinced
Alexander II. of the seriousness of the situation; and he assured Leflô of his resolve to prevent
an unprovoked attack on France. He was then about to visit his uncle, the German Emperor; and
there is little doubt that his influence at Berlin helped to end the crisis.

Other influences were also at work, emanating from Queen Victoria and the British Government.
It is well known that Her late Majesty wrote to the Emperor William stating that it would be
"easy to prove that her fears [of a Franco-German war] were not exaggerated[246]." The source
of her information is now known to have been unexceptionable. It reached our Foreign Office
through the medium of German ambassadors. Such is the story imparted by Lord Odo Russell, our
Ambassador at Berlin, to his brother, and by him communicated to Sir Mountstuart Grant Duff.
It concerns an interview between Gortchakoff and Bismarck in which the German Chancellor inveighed
against the Russian Prince for blurting out, at a State banquet held the day before, the news
that he had received a letter from Queen Victoria, begging him to work in the interests of
peace. Bismarck thereafter sharply upbraided Gortchakoff for this amazing indiscretion. Lord
Odo Russell was present at their interview in order to support the Russian Chancellor, who
parried Bismarck's attack by affecting a paternal interest in his health:--

     "Come, come, my dear Bismarck, be calm. You know that I am
     very fond of you. I have known you since your childhood. But
     I do not like you when you are hysterical. Come, you are
     going to be hysterical. Pray be calm: come, come, my dear
     fellow." A short time after this interview Bismarck
     complained to Odo of "the preposterous folly and ignorance of
     the English and all other Cabinets, who had mistaken stories
     got up for speculations on the Bourse for the true policy of
     the German Government." "Then will you," asked Odo, "censure
     your four ambassadors who have misled us and the other
     Powers?" Bismarck made no reply[247]. See, too, other proofs of the probability of an attack by
Germany on France in Professor Geffcken's Frankreich, Russland, und der
Dreibund, pp. 90 et seq.]

It seems, then, that the German Chancellor had no ground for suspicion against the Crown Princess
as having informed Queen Victoria of the suggested attack on France; but thenceforth he had
an intense dislike of these august ladies, and lost no opportunity of maligning them in diplomatic
circles and through the medium of the Press. Yet, while nursing resentful thoughts against
Queen Victoria, her daughter, and the British Ministry, the German Chancellor reserved his
wrath mainly for his personal rival at St. Petersburg. The publication of Gortchakoff's circular
despatch of May 10, 1875, beginning with the words, "Maintenant la paix est assurée," was in
his eyes the crowning offence.

The result was the beginning of a good understanding between Russia and France, and the weakening
of the Three Emperors' League[248]. That league went to pieces for a time amidst the disputes
at the Berlin Congress on the Eastern Question, where Germany's support of Austria's resolve
to limit the sphere of Muscovite influence robbed the Czar of prospective spoils and placed
a rival Power as "sentinel on the Balkans." Further, when Germany favoured Austrian interests
in the many matters of detail that came up for settlement in those States, the rage in Russian
official circles knew no bounds. Newspapers like the Journal de St. Pétersbourg, the Russki
Mir, and the Golos, daily poured out the vials of their wrath against everything German; and
that prince of publicists, Katkoff, with his coadjutor, Élie de Cyon, moved heaven and earth
in the endeavour to prove that Bismarck alone had pushed Russia on to war with Turkey, and
then had intervened to rob her of the fruits of victory. Amidst these clouds of invective,
friendly hands were thrust forth from Paris and Moscow, and the effusive salutations of would-be
statesmen marked the first beginnings of the present alliance. A Russian General--Obretchoff--went
to Paris and "sounded the leading personages in Paris respecting a Franco-Russian alliance[249]."
There was little to hinder their rapprochement. Bismarck's clemency to the Hapsburg Power in
the hour of Prussia's triumph in 1866 now bore fruit; for when Russia sent a specific demand
that the Court of Berlin must cease to support Austrian interests or forfeit the friendship
of Russia, the German Chancellor speedily came to an understanding with Count Andrassy in an
interview at Gastein on August 27-28, 1879. At first it had reference only to a defensive alliance
against an attack by Russia, Count Andrassy, then about to retire from his arduous duties,
declining to extend the arrangement to an attack by another Power--obviously France. The plan
of the Austro-German alliance was secretly submitted by Bismarck to the King of Bavaria, who
signified his complete approval[250]. It received a warm welcome from the Hapsburg Court; and,
when the secret leaked out, Bismarck had enthusiastic greetings on his journey to Vienna and
thence northwards to Berlin. The reason is obvious. For the first time in modern history the
centre of Europe seemed about to form a lasting compact, strong enough to impose respect on
the restless extremities. That of 1813 and 1814 had aimed only at the driving of Napoleon I.
from Germany. The present alliance had its roots in more abiding needs.

[Footnote 250: Bismarck: Reflections and Reminiscences, vol. ii. pp. 251-289.]

Strange to say, the chief obstacle was Kaiser Wilhelm himself. The old sovereign had very many
claims on the gratitude of the German race, for his staunchness of character, singleness of
aim, and homely good sense had made the triumphs of his reign possible. But the newer light
of to-day reveals the limitations of his character. He never saw far ahead, and even in his
survey of the present situation Prussian interests and family considerations held far too large
a space. It was so now. Against the wishes of his Chancellor, he went to meet the Czar at Alexandrovo;
and while the Austro-German compact took form at Gastein and Vienna, Czar and Kaiser were assuring
each other of their unchanging friendship. Doubtless Alexander II. was sincere in these professions
of affection for his august uncle; but Bismarck paid more heed to the fact that Russia had
recently made large additions to her army, while dense clouds of her horsemen hung about the
Polish border, ready to flood the Prussian plains. He saw safety only by opposing force to
force. As he said to his secretary, Busch: "When we [Germany and Austria] are united, with
our two million soldiers back to back, they [the Russians], with their Nihilism, will doubtless
think twice before disturbing the peace." Finally the Emperor William agreed to the Austro-German
compact, provided that the Czar should be informed that if he attacked Austria he would be
opposed by both Powers[251].

[Footnote 251: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages of his History, by M. Busch, vol. ii. p. 404; Bismarck:
Reflections and Reminiscences, vol. ii. p. 268.]

It was not until November 5, 1887, that the terms of the treaty were made known, and then through
the medium of the Times. The official publication did not take place until February 3, 1888,
at Berlin, Vienna, and Buda-Pesth. The compact provides that if either Germany or Austria shall
be attacked by Russia, each Power must assist its neighbour with all its forces. If, however,
the attack shall come from any other Power, the ally is pledged merely to observe neutrality;
and not until Russia enters the field is the ally bound to set its armies in motion. Obviously
the second case implies an attack by France on Germany; in that case Austria would remain neutral,
carefully watching the conduct of Russia. As far as is known, the treaty does not provide for
joint action, or mutual support, in regard to the Eastern Question, still less in matters further
afield.

In order to give pause to Russia, Bismarck even indulged in a passing flirtation with England.
At the close of 1879, Lord Dufferin, then British ambassador at St. Petersburg, was passing
through Berlin, and the Chancellor invited him to his estate at Varzin, and informed him that
Russian overtures had been made to France through General Obretcheff, "but Chanzy [French ambassador
at St. Petersburg], having reported that Russia was not ready, the French Government became
less disposed than ever to embark on an adventurous policy[252]."

[Footnote 252: The Life of the Marquis of Dufferin and Ava, by Sir A. Lyall (1905), vol. i.
p. 304.]

To the end of his days Bismarck maintained that the Austro-German alliance did not imply the
lapse of the Three Emperors' League, but that the new compact, by making a Russian attack on
Austria highly dangerous, if not impossible, helped to prolong the life of the old alliance.
Obviously, however, the League was a mere "loud-sounding nothing" (to use a phrase of Metternich's)
when two of its members had to unite to guard the weakest of the trio against the most aggressive.
In the spirit of that statesmanlike utterance of Prince Bismarck, quoted as motto at the head
of this chapter, we may say that the old Triple Alliance slowly dissolved under the influence
of new atmospheric conditions. The three Emperors met for friendly intercourse in 1881, 1884,
and 1885; and at or after the meeting of 1884, a Russo-German agreement was formed, by which
the two Powers promised to observe a friendly neutrality in case either was attacked by a third
Power. Probably the Afghan question, or Nihilism, brought Russia to accept Bismarck's advances;
but when the fear of an Anglo-Russian war passed away, and the revolutionists were curbed,
this agreement fell to the ground; and after the fall of Bismarck the compact was not renewed[253].

[Footnote 253: On October 24, 1896, the Hamburger Nachrichten, a paper often inspired by Bismarck,
gave some information (all that is known) about this shadowy agreement.]

       *       *       *       *       *

It will be well now to turn to the events which brought Italy into line with the Central Powers
and thus laid the foundation of the Triple Alliance of to-day.

The complex and uninteresting annals of Italy after the completion of her unity do not concern
us here. The men whose achievements had ennobled the struggle for independence passed away
in quick succession after the capture of Rome for the national cause. Mazzini died in March
1872 at Pisa, mourning that united Italy was so largely the outcome of foreign help and monarchical
bargainings. Garibaldi spent his last years in fulminating against the Government of Victor
Emmanuel. The soldier-king himself passed away in January 1878, and his relentless opponent,
Pius IX., expired a month later. The accession of Umberto I. and the election of Leo XIII.
promised at first to assuage the feud between the Vatican and the Quirinal, but neither the
tact of the new sovereign nor the personal suavity of the Pope brought about any real change.
Italy remained a prey to the schism between Church and State. A further cause of weakness was
the unfitness of many parts of the Peninsula for constitutional rule. Naples and the South
were a century behind the North in all that made for civic efficiency, the taint of favouritism
and corruption having spread from the governing circles to all classes of society. Clearly
the time of wooing had been too short and feverish to lead up to a placid married life.

During this period of debt and disenchantment came news of a slight inflicted by the Latin
sister of the North. France had seized Tunis, a land on which Italian patriots looked as theirs
by reversion, whereas the exigencies of statecraft assigned it to the French. It seems that
during the Congress of Berlin (June-July 1878) Bismarck and Lord Salisbury unofficially dropped
suggestions that their Governments would raise no objections to the occupation of Tunis by
France. According to de Blowitz, Bismarck there took an early opportunity of seeing Lord Beaconsfield
and of pointing out the folly of England quarrelling with Russia, when she might arrange matters
more peaceably and profitably with her. England, said he, should let Russia have Constantinople
and take Egypt in exchange; "France would not prove inexorable--besides, one might give her
Tunis or Syria[254]." Another Congress story is to the effect that Lord Salisbury, on hearing
of the annoyance felt in France at England's control over Cyprus, said to M. Waddington at
Berlin: "Do what you like with Tunis; England will raise no objections." A little later, the
two Governments came to a written understanding that France might occupy Tunis at a convenient
opportunity.

[Footnote 254: De Blowitz, Memoirs, ch. vi., also Busch, Our Chancellor, vol. ii. pp. 92-93.]

The seizure of Tunis by France aroused all the more annoyance in Italy owing to the manner
of its accomplishment. On May 11, 1881, when a large expedition was being prepared in her southern
ports, M. Barthélémy de St. Hilaire disclaimed all idea of annexation, and asserted that the
sole aim of France was the chastisement of a troublesome border tribe, the Kroumirs; but on
the entry of the "red breeches" into Kairwan and the collapse of the Moslem resistance, the
official assurance proved to be as unsubstantial as the inroads of the Kroumirs. Despite the
protests that came from Rome and Constantinople, France virtually annexed that land, though
the Sultan's representative, the Bey, still retains the shadow of authority[255].

[Footnote 255: It transpired later on that Barthélémy de St. Hilaire did not know of the extent
of the aims of the French military party, and that these subsequently gained the day; but this
does not absolve the Cabinet and him of bad faith. Later on France fortified Bizerta, in contravention
(so it is said) of an understanding with the British Government that no part of that coast
should be fortified.]

In vain did King Umberto's ministers appeal to Berlin for help against France. They received
the reply that the affair had been virtually settled at the time of the Berlin Congress[256].
The resentment produced by these events in Italy led to the fall of the Cairoli Ministry, which
had been too credulous of French assurances; and Depretis took the helm of State. Seeing that
Bismarck had confessed his share in encouraging France to take Tunis, Italy's rapprochement
to Germany might seem to be unnatural. It was so. In truth, her alliance with the Central Powers
was based, not on good-will to them, but on resentment against France. The Italian Nationalists
saw in Austria the former oppressor, and still raised the cry of Italia irredenta for the recovery
of the Italian districts of Tyrol, Istria, and Dalmatia. In January 1880, we find Bismarck
writing: "Italy must not be numbered to-day among the peace-loving and conservative Powers,
who must reckon with this fact. . . . We have much more ground to fear that Italy will join
our adversaries than to hope that she will unite with us, seeing that we have no more inducements
to offer her[257]."

[Footnote 256: Politische Geschichte der Gegenwart, for 1881, p. 176; quoted by Lowe, Life
of Bismarck, vol. ii. p. 133.]

[Footnote 257: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages, etc., vol. iii. p. 291.]

This frame of mind changed after the French acquisition of Tunis.

     Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes

should have been the feeling of MM. Waddington and Ferry when Bismarck encouraged them to undertake
that easiest but most expensive of conquests. The nineteenth century offers, perhaps, no more
successful example of Macchiavellian statecraft. The estrangement of France and Italy postponed
at any rate for a whole generation, possibly for the present age, that war of revenge in which
up to the spring of 1881 the French might easily have gained the help of Italy. Thenceforth
they had to reckon on her hostility. The irony of the situation was enhanced by the fact that
the Tunis affair, with the recriminations to which it led, served to bring to power at Paris
the very man who could best have marshalled the French people against Germany.

Gambetta was the incarnation of the spirit of revenge. On more than one occasion he had abstained
from taking high office in the shifting Ministries of the seventies; and it seems likely that
by this calculating coyness he sought to keep his influence intact, not for the petty personal
ends which have often been alleged, but rather with a view to the more effective embattling
of all the national energies against Germany. Good-will to England and to the Latin peoples,
hostility to the Power which had torn Elsass-Lothringen from France--such was the policy of
Gambetta. He had therefore protested, though in vain, against the expedition to Tunis; and
now, on his accession to power (November 9, 1881), he found Italy sullenly defiant, while he
and his Radical friends could expect no help from the new autocrat of all the Russias. All
hope of a war of revenge proved to be futile; and he himself fell from power on January 26,
1882[258]. The year to which he looked forward with high hopes proved to be singularly fatal
to the foes of Germany. The armed intervention of Britain in Egypt turned the thoughts of Frenchmen
from the Rhine to the Nile. Skobeleff, the arch enemy of all things Teutonic, passed away in
the autumn; and its closing days witnessed the death of Gambetta at the hands of his mistress.

[Footnote 258: Seignobos, A Political History of Contemporary Europe, vol. i. p. 210 (Eng. Ed.).]

The resignation of Gambetta having slackened the tension between Germany and France, Bismarck
displayed less desire for the alliance of Italy. Latterly, as a move in the German parliamentary
game, he had coquetted with the Vatican; and as a result of this off-hand behaviour, Italy
was slow in coming to accord with the Central Powers. Nevertheless, her resentment respecting
Tunis overcame her annoyance at Bismarck's procedure; and on May 20, 1882, treaties were signed
which bound Italy to the Central Powers for a term of five years. Their conditions have not
been published, but there are good grounds for thinking that the three allies reciprocally
guaranteed the possession of their present territories, agreed to resist attack on the lands
of any one of them, and stipulated the amount of aid to be rendered by each in case of hostilities
with France or Russia, or both Powers combined. Subsequent events would seem to show that the
Roman Government gained from its northern allies no guarantee whatever for its colonial policy,
or for the maintenance of the balance of power in the Mediterranean[259].

[Footnote 259: For the Triple Alliance see the Rev. des deux Mondes, May 1, 1883; also Chiala,
Storia contemporanea--La Triplice e la Duplice Alleanza (1898).]

Very many Italians have sharply questioned the value of the Triple Alliance to their country.
Probably, when the truth comes fully to light, it will be found that the King and his Ministers
needed some solid guarantee against the schemes of the Vatican to drive the monarchy from Rome.
The relations between the Vatican and the Quirinal were very strained in the year 1882; and
the alliance of Italy with Austria removed all fear of the Hapsburgs acting on behalf of the
Jesuits and other clerical intriguers. The annoyance with which the clerical party in Italy
received the news of the alliance shows that it must have interfered with their schemes. Another
explanation is that Italy actually feared an attack from France in 1882 and sought protection
from the Central Powers. We may add that on the renewal of the Triple Alliance in 1891, Italy
pledged herself to send two corps through Tyrol to fight the French on their eastern frontier
if they attacked Germany. But it is said that that clause was omitted from the treaty on its
last renewal, in 1902.

The accession of Italy to the Austro-German Alliance gave pause to Russia. The troubles with
the Nihilists also indisposed Alexander III. from attempting any rash adventures, especially
in concert with a democratic Republic which changed its Ministers every few months. His hatred
of the Republic as the symbol of democracy equalled his distrust of it as a political kaleidoscope;
and more than once he rejected the idea of a rapprochement to the western Proteus because of
"the absence of any personage authorised to assume the responsibility for a treaty of alliance[260]."
These were the considerations, doubtless, which led him to dismiss the warlike Ignatieff, and
to entrust the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to a hard-headed diplomatist, de Giers (June 12,
1882). His policy was peaceful and decidedly opposed to the Slavophil propaganda of Katkoff,
who now for a time lost favour.

[Footnote 260: Élie de Cyon, op. cit. p. 38.]

For the present, then, Germany was safe. Russia turned her energies against England and achieved
the easy and profitable triumphs in Central Asia which nearly brought her to war with the British
Government (see Chapter xiv.).

In the year 1884 Bismarck gained another success in bringing about the signature of a treaty
of alliance between the three Empires. It was signed on March 24, 1884, at Berlin, but was
not ratified until September, during a meeting of the three Emperors at Skiernewice. M. Élie
de Cyon gives its terms as follows:

(1) If one of the three contracting parties makes war on a fourth Power, the other two will
maintain a benevolent neutrality. (To this Bismarck sought to add a corollary, that if two
of them made war on a fourth Power, the third would equally remain neutral; but the Czar is
said to have rejected this, in the interests of France.) (2) In case of a conflict in the Balkan
Peninsula, the three Powers shall consult their own interests; and in the case of disagreement
the third Power shall give a casting vote. (A protocol added here that Austria might annex
Bosnia and Herzegovina, and occupy Novi-Bazar.) (3) The former special treaties between Russia
and Germany, or Russia and Austria, are annulled. (4) The three Powers will supervise the execution
of the terms of the Treaty of Berlin respecting Turkey; and if the Porte allows a fourth Power
(evidently England) to enter the Dardanelles, it will incur the hostility of one of the three
Powers (Russia). (5) They will not oppose the union of Bulgaria and Eastern Roumelia "if it
comes about by the force of circumstances"; and will not allow Turkey to fortify the Balkan
Passes. Finally, by Article 6, they forbid any one of the contracting Powers to occupy the
Balkan Principalities. The compact held good only for three years.

If these terms are correctly stated, the treaty was a great triumph for Austria and Germany
at the expense of Russia. It is not surprising that the Czar finally broke away from the constraint
imposed by the Skiernewice compact. As we have seen, his conduct towards Bulgaria in 1885-86
brought him very near to a conflict with the Central Powers. The mystery is why he ever joined
them on terms so disadvantageous. The explanation would seem to be that, like the King of Italy,
he felt an alliance with the "conservative" Powers of Central Europe to be some safeguard against
the revolutionary elements then so strong in Russia.

In the years 1886-87 that danger became less acute, and the dictates of self-interest in foreign
affairs resumed their normal sway. At the beginning of the year 1887 Katkoff regained his influence
over the mind of the Czar by convincing him that the troubles in the Balkan Peninsula were
fomented by the statesmen of Berlin and Vienna in order to distract his attention from Franco-German
affairs. Let Russia and France join hands, said Katkoff in effect, and then Russia would have
a free hand in Balkan politics and could lay down the law in European matters generally.

In France the advantage of a Russian alliance was being loudly asserted by General Boulanger--then
nearing the zenith of his popularity--as also by that brilliant leader of society, Mme. Adam,
and a cluster of satellites in the Press. Even de Giers bowed before the idea of the hour,
and allowed the newspaper which he inspired, Le Nord, to use these remarkable words (February
20, 1887):

     Henceforth Russia will watch the events on the Rhine, and
     relegates the Eastern Question to the second place. The
     interests of Russia forbid her, in case of another
     Franco-German war, observing the same benevolent neutrality
     which she previously observed. The Cabinet of St. Petersburg
     will in no case permit a further weakening of France. In
     order to keep her freedom of action for this case, Russia
     will avoid all conflict with Austria and England, and will
     allow events to take their course in Bulgaria.

Thus, early in the year 1887, the tendency towards that equilibrium of the Powers, which is
the great fact of recent European history, began to exercise a sedative effect on Russian policy
in Bulgaria and in Central Asia. That year saw the delimitation of the Russo-Afghan border,
and the adjustment in Central Asian affairs of a balance corresponding to the equilibrium soon
to be reached in European politics. That, too, was the time when Bulgaria began firmly and
successfully to assert her independence and to crush every attempt at a rising on the part
of her Russophil officers. This was seen after an attempt which they made at Rustchuk, when
Stambuloff condemned nine of them to death. The Russian Government having recalled all its
agents from Bulgaria, the task of saving these rebels devolved on the German Consuls, who were
then doing duty for Russia. Their efforts were futile, and Katkoff used their failure as a
means of poisoning the Czar's mind not only against Germany, but also against de Giers, who
had suggested the supervision of Russian interests by German Consuls[261].

[Footnote 261: Élie de Cyon, op. cit. p. 274.]

Another incident of the spring-tide of 1887 kindled the Czar's anger against the Teutons more
fiercely and with more reason. On April 20, a French police commissioner, Schnaebele, was arrested
by two German agents or spies on the Alsacian border in a suspiciously brutal manner, and thrown
into prison. Far from soothing the profound irritation which this affair produced in France,
Bismarck poured oil upon the flames a few days later by a speech which seemed designed to extort
from France a declaration of war. That, at least, was the impression produced on the mind of
Alexander III., who took the unusual step of sending an autograph letter to the Emperor William
I. He, in his turn, without referring the matter to Bismarck, gave orders for the instant release
of Schnaebele[262]. Thus the incident closed; but the disagreeable impression which it created
ended all chance of renewing the Three Emperors' League. The Skiernewice compact, which had
been formed for three years, therefore came to an end.

[Footnote 262: See the Nouvelle Revue for April 15, 1890, for Cyon's version of the whole affair,
which is treated with prudent brevity by Oncken, Blum, and Delbrück.]

Already, if we may trust the imperfect information yet available, France and Russia had sought
to break up the Triple Alliance. In the closing weeks of 1886 de Giers sought to entice Italy
into a compact with Russia with a view to an attack on the Central States (her treaty with
them expired in the month of May following), and pointed to Trieste and the Italian districts
of Istria as a reward for this treachery. The French Government is also believed to have made
similar overtures, holding out the Trentino (the southern part of Tyrol) as the bait. Signor
Depretis, true to the policy of the Triple Alliance, repelled these offers--an act of constancy
all the more creditable seeing that Bismarck had on more than one occasion shown scant regard
for the interests of Italy.

Even now he did little to encourage the King's Government to renew the alliance framed in 1882.
Events, however, again brought the Roman Cabinet to seek for support. The Italian enterprise
in Abyssinia had long been a drain on the treasury, and the annihilation of a force by those
warlike mountaineers on January 26, 1887, sent a thrill of horror through the Peninsula. The
internal situation was also far from promising. The breakdown of attempts at a compromise between
the monarchy and Pope Leo XIII. revealed the adamantine hostility of the Vatican to the King's
Government in Rome. A prey to these discouragements, King Umberto and his advisers were willing
to renew the Triple Alliance (March 1887), though on terms no more advantageous than before.
Signor Depretis, the chief champion of the alliance, died in July; but Signor Crispi, who thereafter
held office, proved to be no less firm in its support. After a visit to Prince Bismarck at
his abode of Friedrichsruh, near Hamburg, the Italian Prime Minister came back a convinced
Teutophil, and announced that Italy adhered to the Central Powers in order to assure peace
to Europe.

Crispi also hinted that the naval support of England might be forthcoming if Italy were seriously
threatened; and when the naval preparations at Toulon seemed to portend a raid on the ill-protected
dockyard of Spezzia, British warships took up positions at Genoa in order to render help if
it were needed. This incident led to a discussion in the Neue Freie Presse of Vienna, owing
to a speech made by Signor Chiala at Rome. Mr. Labouchere also, on February 10, 1888, sharply
questioned Sir James Fergusson in the House of Commons on the alleged understanding between
England and Italy. All information, however, was refused[263].

[Footnote 263: Hansard, vol. cccxii. pp. 1180 et seq.; Chiala, La Triplice e la Duplice Alleanza,
app. ii.; Mr. Stillman, Francesco Crispi (p. 177), believes in the danger to Spezzia.]

Next to nothing, then, is known on the interesting question how far the British Government
went in framing an agreement with Italy, and through her, with the Triple Alliance. We can
only conjecture the motives which induced the Salisbury Cabinet to make a strategic turn towards
that "conservative" alliance, and yet not definitely join it. The isolation of England proved,
in the sequel, to be not only a source of annoyance to the Continental Powers but of weakness
to herself, because her statesmen failed to use to the full the potential advantages of their
position at the middle of the see-saw. Bismarck's dislike of England was not incurable; he
was never a thorough-going "colonial"; and it is probable that the adhesion of England to his
league would have inaugurated a period of mutual good-will in politics, colonial policy, and
commerce. The abstention of England has in the sequel led German statesmen to show all possible
deference to Russia, generally at the expense of British interests.

The importance of this consideration becomes obvious when the dangers of the year 1887 are
remembered. The excitement caused in Russia and France by the Rustchuk and Schnaebele affairs,
the tension in Germany produced by the drastic proposals of a new Army Bill, and, above all,
the prospect of the triumph of Boulangist militarism in France, kept the Continent in a state
of tension for many months. In May, Katkoff nearly succeeded in persuading the Czar to dismiss
de Giers and adopt a warlike policy, in the belief that a strong Cabinet was about to be formed
at Paris with Boulanger as the real motive power. After a long ministerial crisis the proposed
ministerial combination broke down; Boulanger was shelved, and the Czar is believed to have
sharply rebuked Katkoff for his presumption[264]. This disappointment of his dearest hopes
preyed on the health of that brilliant publicist and hastened his end, which occurred on August
1, 1887.

[Footnote 264: This version (the usual one) is contested by Cyon, who says that Katkoff's influence
over the Czar was undermined by a mean German intrigue.]

The seed which Katkoff had sown was, however, to bring forth fruit. Despite the temporary discomfiture
of the Slavophils, events tended to draw France and Russia more closely together. The formal
statement of Signor Crispi that the Triple Alliance was a great and solid fact would alone
have led to some counter move; and all the proofs of the instability of French politics furnished
by the Grévy-Wilson scandals could not blind Russian statesmen to the need of some understanding
with a great Power[265].

[Footnote 265: See the Chauvinist pamphlets, Échec et Mat à la Politique de l'Ennemi de la
France, by "un Russe" (Paris, 1887); and Nécessité de l'Alliance franco-russe, by P. Pader
(Toulouse, 1888).]

Bismarck sought to give the needed hand-grip. In November 1887, during an interview with the
Czar at Berlin, he succeeded in exposing the forgery of some documents concerning Bulgaria
which had prejudiced Alexander against him. He followed up this advantage by secretly offering
the Cabinet of St. Petersburg a guarantee of German support in case of an attack from Austria;
but it does not appear that the Czar placed much trust in the assurance, especially when Bismarck
made his rhetorical fanfare of February 6, 1888, in order to ensure the raising of a loan of
28,000,000 marks for buying munitions of war.

That speech stands forth as a landmark in European politics. In a simple, unadorned style the
German Chancellor set forth the salient facts of the recent history of his land, showing how
often its peace had been disturbed, and deducing the need for constant preparation in a State
bordered, as Germany was, by powerful neighbours:--"The pike in the European pool prevent us
from becoming carp; but we must fulfil the designs of Providence by making ourselves so strong
that the pike can do no more than amuse us." He also traced the course of events which led
to the treaties with Austria and Italy, and asserted that by their formation and by the recent
publication of the treaty of 1882 with Austria the German Government had not sought in any
way to threaten Russia. The present misunderstandings with that Power would doubtless pass
away; but seeing that the Russian Press had "shown the door to an old, powerful, and effective
friend, which we were, we shall not knock at it again." These days marked the climax of the
Chancellor's career and the triumph of the policy which led to the Triple Alliance.

The question, which of the two great hostile groups was the more sincere in its championship
of peace principles, must remain one of the riddles of the age. Bismarck had certainly given
much provocation to France in the Schnaebele affair; but in the year 1888 the chief danger
to the cause of peace came from Boulanger and the Slavophils of Russia. The Chancellor, having
carried through his army proposals, posed as a peacemaker; and Germany for some weeks bent
all her thoughts on the struggle between life and death which made up the ninety days' reign
of the Emperor Frederick III. Cyon and other French writers have laboured to prove that Bismarck's
efforts to prevent his accession to the throne, on the ground that he was the victim of an
incurable disease, betokened a desire for immediate war with France.

It appears, however, that the contention of the Chancellor was strictly in accord with one
of the fundamental laws of the Empire. His attitude towards France throughout the later phases
of the Boulanger affair was coldly "correct," while he manifested the greatest deference towards
the private prejudices of the Czar when the Empress Frederick allowed the proposals of marriage
between her daughter and Prince Alexander of Battenberg to be renewed. Knowing the unchangeable
hatred of the Czar for the ex-Prince of Bulgaria, Bismarck used all his influence to thwart
the proposal, which was defeated by the personal intervention of the present Kaiser[266]. According
to our present information, then, German policy was sincerely peaceful, alike in aim and in
tone, during the first six months of the year; and the piling up of armaments which then went
on from the Urals to the Pyrenees may be regarded as an unconsciously ironical tribute paid
by the Continental Powers to the cause of peace.

[Footnote 266: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages, etc. vol. iii. p. 335.]

       *       *       *       *       *

A change came over the scene when William II. ascended the throne of Germany (June 15, 1888).
At once he signalised the event by issuing a proclamation to the army, in which occurred the
words: "I swear ever to remember that the eyes of my ancestors look down upon me from the other
world, and that I shall one day have to render account to them of the glory and honour of the
army." The navy received his salutation on that same day; and not until three days later did
a proclamation go forth to his people. Men everywhere remembered that "Frederick the Noble"
had first addressed his people, and then his army and navy. The inference was unavoidable that
the young Kaiser meant to be a Frederick the Great rather than a "citizen Emperor," as his
father had longed to be known. The world has now learnt to discount the utterances of the most
impulsive of Hohenzollern rulers; but in those days, when it knew not his complex character,
such an army order seemed to portend the advent of another Napoleon.

Not only France but Russia felt some alarm. True, the young Kaiser speedily paid a visit to
his relative at St. Petersburg; but it soon appeared that the stolid and very reserved Alexander
III. knew not what to make of the versatile personality that now controlled the policy of Central
Europe. It was therefore natural that France and Russia should take precautionary measures;
and we now know that these were begun in the autumn of that year.

In the first instance, they took the form of loans. A Parisian financier, M. Hoskier, Danish
by descent, but French by naturalisation and sympathy, had long desired to use the resources
of Paris as a means of cementing friendship, and, if possible, alliance with Russia. For some
time he made financial overtures at St. Petersburg, only to find all doors closed against him
by German capitalists. But in the spring of the year 1888 the Berlin Bourse had been seized
by a panic at the excessive amount of Russian securities held by German houses; large sales
took place, and thenceforth it seemed impossible for Russia to raise money at Berlin or Frankfurt
except on very hard terms.

Now was the opportunity for which the French houses had been waiting and working. In October
1888, Hoskier received an invitation to repair to St. Petersburg secretly, in order to consider
the taking up of a loan of 500,000,000 francs at 4 per cent, to replace war loans contracted
in 1877 at 5 per cent. At once he assured the Russian authorities that his syndicate would
accept the offer, and though the German financiers raged and plotted against him, the loan
went to Paris. This was the beginning of a series of loans launched by Russia at Paris, and
so successfully that by the year 1894 as much as four milliards of francs (£160,000,000) is
said to have been subscribed in that way[267]. Thus the wealth of France enabled Russia to
consolidate her debt on easier terms, to undertake strategic railways, to build a new navy,
and arm her immense forces with new and improved weapons. It is well known that Russia could
not otherwise have ventured on these and other costly enterprises; and one cannot but admire
the skill which she showed in making so timely a use of Gallic enthusiasm, as well as the statesmanlike
foresight of the French in piling up these armaments on the weakest flank of Germany.

[Footnote 267: E. Daudet, Histoire diplomatique de l'Alliance franco-russe, pp. 270-279.]

Meanwhile the Boulangist bubble had burst. After his removal from the army on the score of
insubordination, "le brav' général" entered into politics, and, to the surprise of all, gained
an enormous majority in the election for a district of Paris (January 1889). It is believed
that, had he rallied his supporters and marched against the Elysée, he might have overthrown
the parliamentary Republic. But, like Robespierre at the crisis of his career, he did not strike--he
discoursed of reason and moderation. For once the authorities took the initiative; and when
the new Premier, Tirard, took action against him for treason, he fled to Brussels on the appropriate
date of the 1st of April. Thenceforth, the Royalist-Bonapartist-Radical hybrid, known as Boulangism,
ceased to scare the world; and its challenging snorts died away in sounds which were finally
recognised as convulsive brayings. How far the Slavophils of Russia had a hand in goading on
the creature is not known. Élie de Cyon, writing at a later date, declared that he all along
saw through and distrusted Boulanger. Disclaimers of this kind were plentiful in the following
years[268].

[Footnote 268: De Cyon, op. cit. pp. 394 et seq.]

After the exposure of that hero of the Boulevards, it was natural that the Czar should decline
to make a binding compact with France; and he signalised the isolation of Russia by proposing
a toast to the Prince of Montenegro as "the only sincere and faithful friend of Russia." Nevertheless,
the dismissal of Bismarck by William II., in March 1890, brought about a time of strain and
friction between Russia and Germany which furthered the prospects of a Franco-Russian entente.
Thenceforth peace depended on the will of a young autocrat who now and again gave the impression
that he was about to draw the sword for the satisfaction of his ancestral manes. A sharp and
long-continued tariff war between Germany and Russia also embittered the relations between
the two Powers.

Rumours of war were widespread in the year 1891. Wild tales were told as to a secret treaty
between Germany and Belgium for procuring a passage to the Teutonic hosts through that neutralised
kingdom, and thus turning the new eastern fortresses which France had constructed at enormous
cost[269]. Parts of Northern France were to be the reward of King Leopold's complaisance, and
the help of England and Turkey was to be secured by substantial bribes[270]. The whole scheme
wears a look of amateurish grandiosity; but, on the principle that there is no smoke without
fire (which does not always hold good for diplomatic smoke), much alarm was felt at Paris.
The renewal of the Triple Alliance in June 1891, for a term of six years, was followed up a
month later by a visit of the Emperor William to England, during which he took occasion at
the Guildhall to state his desire "to maintain the historical friendship between these our
two nations" (July 10). Balanced though this assertion was by an expression of a hope in the
peaceful progress of all peoples, the words sent an imaginative thrill to the banks of the
Seine and the Neva.

[Footnote 269: In the French Chamber of Deputies it was officially stated in 1893, that in
two decades France had spent the sum of £614,000,000 on her army and the new fortresses, apart
from that on strategic railways and the fleet.]

[Footnote 270: Notovich, L'Empereur Alexandre III. ch. viii.]

The outcome of it all was the visit of the French Channel Fleet to Cronstadt at the close of
July; and the French statesman M. Flourens asserts that the Czar himself took the initiative
in this matter[271]. The fleet received an effusive welcome, and, to the surprise of all Europe,
the Emperor visited the flagship of Admiral Gervais and remained uncovered while the band played
the national airs of the two nations. Few persons ever expected the autocrat of the East to
pay that tribute to the Marseillaise. But, in truth, French democracy was then entering on
a new phase at home. Politicians of many shades of opinion had begun to cloak themselves with
"opportunism"--a conveniently vague term, first employed by Gambetta, but finally used to designate
any serviceable compromise between parliamentary rule, autocracy, and flamboyant militarism.
The Cronstadt fêtes helped on the warping process.

[Footnote 271: L.E. Flourens, Alexandre III.: sa Vie, son Oeuvre, p. 319.]

Whether any definite compact was there signed is open to doubt. The Times correspondent, writing
on July 31 from St. Petersburg, stated that Admiral Gervais had brought with him from Paris
a draft of a convention, which was to be considered and thereafter signed by the Russian Ministers
for Foreign Affairs, War, and the Navy, but not by the Czar himself until the need for it arose.
Probably, then, no alliance was formed, but military and naval conventions were drawn up to
serve as bases for common action if an emergency should arise. These agreements were elaborated
in conferences held by the Russian generals, Vanoffski and Obrucheff, with the French generals,
Saussier, Miribel, and Boisdeffre. A Russian loan was soon afterwards floated at Paris amidst
great enthusiasm.

For the present the French had to be satisfied with this exchange of secret assurances and
hard cash. The Czar refused to move further, mainly because the scandals connected with the
Panama affair once more aroused his fears and disgust. De Cyon states that the degrading revelations
which came to light, at the close of 1891 and early in 1892, did more than anything to delay
the advent of a definite alliance. The return visit of a Russian squadron to French waters
was therefore postponed to the month of October 1893, when there were wild rejoicings at Toulon.
The Czar and President exchanged telegrams, the former referring to "the bonds which unite
the two countries."

It appeared for a time that Russia meant to keep her squadron in the Mediterranean; and representations
on this subject are known to have been made by England and Italy, which once again drew close
together. A British squadron visited Italian ports--an event which seemed to foreshadow the
entrance of the Island Power to the Triple Alliance. The Russian fleet, however, left the Mediterranean,
and the diplomatic situation remained unchanged. Despite all the passionate wooing of the Gallic
race, no contract of marriage took place during the life of Alexander III. He died on November
1, 1894, and his memory was extolled in many quarters as that of the great peacemaker of the age.

How far he deserved this praise, to which every statesman of the first rank laid claim, is
matter for doubt. It is certain that he disliked war on account of the evil results accruing
from the Russo-Turkish conflict; but whether his love of peace rested on grounds other than
prudential will be questioned by those who remember his savage repression of non-Russian peoples
in his Empire, his brutal treatment of the Bulgarians and of their Prince, his underhand intrigues
against Servia and Roumania, and the favour which he showed to the commander who violated international
law at Panjdeh. That the French should enshrine his memory in phrases to which their literary
skill gives a world-wide vogue is natural, seeing that he ended their days of isolation and
saved them from the consequences of Boulangism; but it still has to be proved that, apart from
the Schnaebele affair, Germany ever sought a quarrel with France during the reign of Alexander
III.; and it may finally appear that the Triple Alliance was the genuinely conservative league
which saved Europe from the designs of the restless Republic and the exacting egotism of Alexander
III.

Another explanation of the Franco-Russian entente is fully as tenable as the theory that the
Czar based his policy on the seventh beatitude. A careful survey of the whole of that policy
in Asia, as well as in Europe, seems to show that he drew near to the Republic in order to
bring about an equilibrium in Europe which would enable him to throw his whole weight into
the affairs of the Far East. Russian policy has oscillated now towards the West, now towards
the East; but old-fashioned Russians have always deplored entanglement in European affairs,
and have pointed to the more hopeful Orient. Even during the pursuit of Napoleon's shattered
forces in their retreat from Moscow in 1812, the Russian Commander, Kutusoff, told Sir Robert
Wilson that Napoleon's overthrow would benefit, not the world at large, but only England[272].
He failed to do his utmost, largely because he looked forward to peace with France and a renewal
of the Russian advance on India.

[Footnote 272: The French Invasion of Russia, by Sir R. Wilson, p. 234.]

The belief that England was the enemy came to be increasingly held by leading Russians, especially,
of course, after the Crimean War and the Berlin Congress. Russia's true mission, they said,
lay in Asia. There, among those ill-compacted races, she could easily build up an Empire that
never could be firmly founded on tough, recalcitrant Bulgars or warlike Turks. The Triple Alliance
having closed the door to Russia on the West, there was the greater temptation to take the
other alternative course--that line of least resistance which led towards Afghanistan and Manchuria.
The value of an understanding with France was now clear to all. As we have seen, it guarded
Russia's exposed frontier in Poland, and poured into the exchequer treasures which speedily
took visible form in the Siberian railway, as well as the extensions of the lines leading to
Merv and Tashkend.

But this eastern trend of Russian policy can scarcely be called peaceful. The Panjdeh incident
(March 29, 1885) would have led any other Government than that of Mr. Gladstone to declare
war on the aggressor. Events soon turned the gaze of the Russians towards Manchuria, and the
Franco-Russian agreement enabled them to throw their undivided energies in that direction (see
Chapter XX.). It was French money which enabled Russia to dominate Manchuria, and, for the
time, to overawe Japan. In short, the Dual Alliance peacefully conducted the Muscovites to
Port Arthur.

       *       *       *       *       *

The death of Alexander III. in November 1894 brought to power a very different personality,
kindlier and more generous, but lacking the strength and prudence of the deceased ruler. Nicholas
II. had none of that dislike of Western institutions which haunted his father. The way was
therefore open for a more binding compact with France, the need for which was emphasised by
the events of the years 1894-95 in the Far East. But the manner in which it came about is still
but dimly known. Members of the House of Orleans are said to have taken part in the overtures,
perhaps with the view of helping on the hypnotising influence which alliance with the autocracy
of the East exerts on the democracy of the West.

The Franco-Russian entente ripened into an alliance in the year 1895. So, at least, we may
judge from the reference to Russia as "notre allié" by the Prime Minister, M. Ribot, in the
debate of June 10, 1895. Nicholas II., at the time of his visit to Paris in 1896, proclaimed
his close friendship with the Republic; and during the return visit of President Faure to Cronstadt
and St. Petersburg he gave an even more significant sign that the two nations were united by
something more than sentiment and what Carlyle would have called the cash-nexus. On board the
French warship Pothuau he referred in his farewell speech to the "nations amies et alliées"
(August 26, 1897).

The treaty has never been made public, but a version of it appeared in the Wiener Allgemeine
Zeitung of September 21, 1901, and in the Paris paper, La Liberté five days later. Mr. Henry
Norman gives the following summary of the information there unofficially communicated. After
stating that the treaty contains no direct reference to Germany, he proceeds: "It declares
that if either nation is attacked, the other will come to its assistance with the whole of
its military and naval forces, and that peace shall only be concluded in concert and by agreement
between the two. No other casus belli is mentioned, no term is fixed to the duration of the
treaty, and the whole instrument consists of only a few clauses[273]."

[Footnote 273: H. Norman, M.P., All the Russias, p. 390 (Heinemann, 1902). See the articles
on the alliance as it affects Anglo-French relations by M. de Pressensé in the Nineteenth Century
for February and November 1896; also Mr. Spenser Wilkinson's The Nation's Awakening, ch. v.]

Obviously France and Russia cannot help one another with all their forces unless the common
foe were Germany, or the Triple Alliance as a whole. In that case alone would such a clause
be operative. The pressure of France and Russia on the flanks of the German Empire would be
terrible; and it is inconceivable that Germany would attack France, knowing that such action
would bring the weight of Russia upon her weakest frontier. It is, however, conceivable that
the three central allies might deem the strain of an armed peace to be unendurable and attack
France or Russia. To such an attack the Dual Alliance would oppose about equal forces, though
now hampered by the weakening of the Empire in the Far East.

Another account, also unofficial and discreetly vague, was given to the world by a diplomatist
at the time when the Armenian outrages had for a time quickened the dull conscience of Christendom[274].
Assuming that the Sick Man of the East was at the point of death, the anonymous writer hinted
at the profitable results obtainable by the Continental States if, leaving England out of count,
they arranged the Eastern Question à l'aimable among themselves. The Dual Alliance, he averred,
would not meet the needs of the situation; for it did not contemplate the partition of Turkey
or a general war in the East.

[Footnote 274: L'Alliance Franco-russe devant la Crise Orientale, par un Diplomate étranger.
(Paris, Plon. 1897).]

     Both parties [France and Russia] have examined the course to
     be taken in the case of aggression by one or more members of
     the Triple Alliance; an understanding has been arrived at on
     the great lines of general policy; but of necessity they did
     not go further. If the Russian Government could not undertake
     to place its sword at the service of France with a view to a
     revision of the Treaty of Frankfurt--a demand, moreover,
     which France did not make--it cannot claim that France should
     mobilise her forces to permit it to extend its territory in
     Europe or in Asia. They know that very well on the banks of
     the Neva.

To this interesting statement we may add that France and Russia have been at variance on the
Eastern Question. Thus, when, in order to press her rightful claims on the Sultan, France determined
to coerce him by the seizure of Mitylene, if need be, the Czar's Government is known to have
discountenanced this drastic proceeding. Speaking generally, it is open to conjecture whether
the Dual Alliance refers to other than European questions. This may be inferred from the following
fact. On the announcement of the Anglo-Japanese compact early in 1902, by which England agreed
to intervene in the Far Eastern Question if another Power helped Russia against Japan, the
Governments of St. Petersburg and Paris framed a somewhat similar convention whereby France
definitely agreed to take action if Russia were confronted by Japan and a European or American
Power in these quarters. No such compact would have been needed if the Franco-Russian alliance
had referred to the problems of the Far East.

Another "disclosure" of the early part of 1904 is also noteworthy. The Paris Figaro published
official documents purporting to prove that the Czar Nicholas II., on being sounded by the
French Government at the time of the Fashoda incident, declared his readiness to abide by his
engagements in case France took action against Great Britain. The Figaro used this as an argument
in favour of France actively supporting Russia against Japan, if an appeal came from St. Petersburg.
This contention would now meet with little support in France. The events of the Russo-Japanese
War and the massacre of workmen in St. Petersburg on January 22, 1905, have visibly strained
Franco-Russian relations. This is seen in the following speech of M. Anatole France on February
1, 1905, with respect to his interview with the Premier, M. Combes:--

     At the beginning of this war I had heard it said very vaguely
     that there existed between France and Russia firm and fast
     engagements, and that, if Russia came to blows with a second
     Power, France would have to intervene. I asked M. Combes,
     then Prime Minister, whether anything of the kind existed. M.
     Combes thought it due to his position not to give a precise
     answer; but he declared to me in the clearest way that so
     long as he was Minister we need not fear that our sailors and
     our soldiers would be sent to Japan. My own opinion is that
     this folly is not to be apprehended under any Ministry. (The
     Times. February 3.)

At present, then, everything tends to show that the Franco-Russian alliance refers solely to
European questions and is merely a defensive agreement in view of a possible attack from one
or more members of the Triple Alliance. Seeing that the purely defensive character of the latter
has always been emphasised, doubts are very naturally expressed in many quarters as to the
use of these alliances. The only tangible advantage gained by any one of the five Powers is
that Russia has had greater facilities for raising loans in France and in securing her hold
on Manchuria. On the other hand, Frenchmen complain that the alliance has entailed an immense
financial responsibility, which is dearly bought by the cessation of those irritating frontier
incidents of the Schnaebele type which they had to put up with from Bismarck in the days of
their isolation[275].

[Footnote 275: See an article by Jules Simon in the Contemporary Review, May 1894.]

Italy also questions the wisdom of her alliance with the Central Powers which brings no obvious
return except in the form of slightly enhanced consideration from her Latin sister. In cultured
circles on both sides of the Maritime Alps there is a strong feeling that the present international
situation violates racial instincts and tradition; and, as we have already seen, Italy's attitude
towards France is far different now from what it was in 1882. It is now practically certain
that Italians would not allow the King's Government to fight France in the interests of the
Central Powers. Their feelings are quite natural. What have Italians in common with Austrians
and Prussians? Little more, we may reply, than French republicans with the subjects of the
Czar. In truth both of these alliances rest, not on whole-hearted regard or affection, but
on fear and on the compulsion which it exerts.

To this fact we may, perhaps, largely attribute the malaise of Europe. The Greek philosopher
Empedocles looked on the world as the product of two all-pervading forces, love and hate, acting
on blind matter: love brought cognate particles together and held them in union; hate or repulsion
kept asunder the unlike or hostile elements. We may use the terms of this old cosmogony in
reference to existing political conditions, and assert that these two elemental principles
have drawn Europe apart into two hostile masses; with this difference, that the allies for
the most part are held together, not so much by mutual regard as by hatred of their opposites.
From this somewhat sweeping statement we must mark off one exception. There were two allies
who came together with the ease which betokens a certain amount of affinity. Thanks to the
statesmanlike moderation of Bismarck after Königgrätz, Austria willingly entered into a close
compact with her former rival. At least that was the feeling among the Germans and Magyars
of the Dual Monarchy. The Austro-German alliance, it may be predicted, will hold good while
the Dual Monarchy exists in its present form; but even in that case fear of Russia is the one
great binding force where so much else is centrifugal. If ever the Empire of the Czar should
lose its prestige, possibly the two Central Powers would drift apart.

Although there are signs of weakness in both alliances, they will doubtless remain standing
as long as the need which called them into being remains. Despite all the efforts made on both
sides, the military and naval resources of the two great leagues are approximately equal. In
one respect, and in one alone, Europe has benefited from these well-matched efforts. The uneasy
truce that has been dignified by the name of peace since the year 1878 results ultimately from
the fact that war will involve the conflict of enormous citizen armies of nearly equal strength.

So it has come to this, that in an age when the very conception of Christendom has vanished,
and ideal principles have been well-nigh crushed out of life by the pressure of material needs,
peace again depends on the once-derided principle of the balance of power. That it should be
so is distressing to all who looked to see mankind win its way to a higher level of thought
on international affairs. The level of thought in these matters could scarcely be lower than
it has been since the Armenian massacres. The collective conscience of Europe is as torpid
as it was in the eighteenth century, when weak States were crushed or partitioned, and armed
strength came to be the only guarantee of safety.

At the close of this volume we shall glance at some of the influences which the Tantalus toil
of the European nations has exerted on the life of our age. It is not for nothing that hundreds
of millions of men are ever striving to provide the sinews of war, and that rulers keep those
sinews in a state of tension. The result is felt in all the other organs of the body politic.
Certainly the governing classes of the Continent must be suffering from atrophy of the humorous
instinct if they fail to note the practical nullity of the efforts which they and their subjects
have long put forth. Perhaps some statistical satirist of the twentieth century will assess
the economy of the process which requires nearly twelve millions of soldiers for the maintenance
of peace in the most enlightened quarter of the globe.

NOTE TO THE SECOND EDITION

In the Echo de Paris of July 3, 1905, the Comte de Nion published documents which further prove
the importance of the services rendered by Great Britain to France at the time of the war scare
of May 1875. They confirm the account as given in this chapter, but add a few more details.
See, too, corroborative evidence in the Times for July 4, 1905.

NOTE TO THE THIRD EDITION

It has been stated, apparently on good authority, that the informal conversations which went
on during the Congress of Berlin between the plenipotentiaries of the Powers (see ante, p.
328) furnished Italy with an assurance that, in the event of France expanding in North Africa,
Italy should find "compensation" in Tripoli. Apparently this explains her recent action there
(October 1911).

CHAPTER XIII

THE CENTRAL ASIAN QUESTION

     "The Germans have reached their day, the English their
     mid-day, the French their afternoon, the Italians their
     evening, the Spanish their night; but the Slavs stand on the
     threshold of the morning."--MADAME NOVIKOFF ("O.K.")--The
     Friends and Foes of Russia.

The years 1879-85 which witnessed the conclusion of the various questions opened up by the
Treaty of Berlin and the formation of the Triple Alliance mark the end of a momentous period
in European history. The quarter of a century which followed the Franco-Austrian War of 1859
in Northern Italy will always stand out as one of the most momentous epochs in State-building
that the world has ever seen. Italy, Denmark, Austria-Hungary, Germany, and Turkey, assumed
their present form. The Christians of the Balkan Peninsula made greater strides towards liberty
than they had taken in the previous century. Finally, the new diplomatic grouping of the Powers
helped to endow these changes with a permanence which was altogether wanting to the fitful
efforts of the period 1815-59. That earlier period was one of feverish impulse and picturesque
failure; the two later decades were characterised by stern organisation and prosaic success.

It generally happens to nations as to individuals that a period devoted to recovery from internal
disorders is followed by a time of great productive and expansive power. The introspective
epoch gives place to one of practical achievement. Faust gives up his barren speculations and
feels his way from thought to action. From "In the beginning was the Word" he wins his way
onward through "the Thought" and "the Might," until he rewrites the dictum "In the beginning
was the Deed." That is the change which came over Germany and Europe in the years 1850-80.
The age of the theorisers of the Vor-Parlament at Frankfurt gave place to the age of Bismarck.
The ideals of Mazzini paled in the garish noonday of the monarchical triumph at Rome.

Alas! too, the age of great achievement, that of the years 1859-85, makes way for a period
characterised by satiety, torpor, and an indefinable malaise. Europe rests from the generous
struggles of the past, and settles down uneasily into a time of veiled hostility and armed
peace. Having framed their State systems and covering alliances, the nations no longer give
heed to constitutions, rights of man, or duties of man; they plunge into commercialism, and
search for new markets. Their attitude now is that of Ancient Pistol when he exclaims

                  "The world's mine oyster,
     Which I with sword will open."

In Europe itself there is little to chronicle in the years 1885-1900, which are singularly
dull in regard to political achievement. No popular movement (not even those of the distressed
Cretans and Armenians) has aroused enough sympathy to bring it to the goal. The reason for
this fact seems to be that the human race, like the individual, is subject to certain alternating
moods which may be termed the enthusiastic and the practical; and that, during the latter phase,
the material needs of life are so far exalted at the expense of the higher impulses that small
struggling communities receive not a tithe of the sympathy which they would have aroused in
more generous times.

The fact need not beget despair. On the contrary, it should inspire the belief that, when the
fit passes away, the healthier, nobler mood will once more come; and then the world will pulsate
with new life, making wholesome use of the wealth previously stored up but not assimilated.
It is significant that Gervinus, writing in 1853, spoke of that epoch as showing signs of disenchantment
and exhaustion in the political sphere. In reality he was but six years removed from the beginning
of an age of constructive activity the like of which has never been seen.

Further, we may point out that the ebb in the tide of human affairs which set in about the
year 1885 was due to specific causes operating with varied force on different peoples. First
in point of time, at the close of the year 1879, came the decision of Bismarck and of the German
Reichstag to abandon the cause of Free Trade in favour of a narrow commercial nationalism.
Next came the murder of the Czar Alexander II. (March 1881), and the grinding down of the reformers
and of all alien elements by his stern successor. Thus, the national impulse, which had helped
on that of democracy in the previous generation, now lent its strength to the cause of economic,
religious, and political reaction in the two greatest of European States.

In other lands that vital force frittered itself away in the frothy rhetoric of Déroulède and
the futile prancings of Boulanger, in the gibberings of Italia Irredenta, or in the noisy obstruction
of Czechs and Parnellites in the Parliaments of Vienna and London. Everything proclaimed that
the national principle had spent its force and could now merely turn and wobble until it came
to rest.

A curious series of events also served to discredit the party of progress in the constitutional
States. Italian politics during the ascendancy of Depretis, Mancini, and Crispi became on the
one side a mere scramble for power, on the other a nervous edging away from the gulf of bankruptcy
ever yawning in front. France, too, was slow to habituate herself to parliamentary institutions,
and her history in the years 1887 to 1893 is largely that of a succession of political scandals
and screechy recriminations, from the time of the Grévy-Wilson affair to the loathsome end
of the Panama Company. In the United Kingdom the wheels of progress lurched along heavily after
the year 1886, when Gladstone made his sudden strategic turn towards the following of Parnell.
Thus it came about that the parties of progress found themselves almost helpless or even discredited;
and the young giant of Democracy suddenly stooped and shrivelled as if with premature decay.

The causes of this seeming paralysis were not merely political and dynamic: they were also
ethical. The fervour of religious faith was waning under the breath of a remorseless criticism
and dogmatic materialism. Already, under their influence, the teachers of the earlier age,
Carlyle, Tennyson, and Browning, had lost their joyousness and spontaneity; and the characteristic
thinkers of the new age were chiefly remarkable for the arid formalism with which they preached
the gospel of salvation for the strong and damnation to the weak. The results of the new creed
were not long in showing themselves in the political sphere. If the survival of the fittest
were the last word of philosophy, where was the need to struggle on behalf of the weak and
oppressed? In that case, it might be better to leave them to the following clutch of the new
scientific devil; while those who had charged through to the head of the rout enjoyed themselves
with utmost abandon. Such was, and is, the deduction from the new gospel (crude enough, doubtless,
in many respects), which has finally petrified in the lordly egotism of Nietzche and in the
unlovely outlines of one or two up-to-date Utopias.

These fashions will have their day. Meanwhile it is the duty of the historian to note that
self-sacrifice and heroism have a hard struggle for life in an age which for a time exalted
Herbert Spencer to the highest pinnacle of greatness, which still riots in the calculating
selfishness of Nietzsche and raves about Omar Khayyám.

Seeing, then, that the last fifteen years of the nineteenth century in Europe were almost barren
of great formative movements such as had ennobled the previous decades, we may well leave that
over-governed, over-drilled continent weltering in its riches and discontent, its militarism
and moral weakness, in order to survey events further afield which carried on the State-building
process to lands as yet chaotic or ill-organised. There, at least, we may chronicle some advance,
hampered though it has been by the moral languor or laxity that has warped the action of Europeans
in their new spheres.

The transference of human interest from European history to that of Asia and Africa is certainly
one of the distinguishing features of the years in question. The scene of great events shifts
from the Rhine and the Danube to the Oxus and the Nile. The affairs of Rome, Alsace, and Bulgaria
being settled for the present, the passions of great nations centre on Herat and Candahar,
Alexandria and Khartum, the Cameroons, Zanzibar, and Johannesburg, Port Arthur and Korea. The
United States, after recovering from the Civil War and completing their work of internal development,
enter the lists as a colonising Power, and drive forth Spain from two of her historic possessions.
Strife becomes keen over the islands of the Pacific. Australia seeks to lay hands on New Guinea,
and the European Powers enter into hot discussions over Madagascar, the Carolines, Samoa, and
many other isles.

In short, these years saw a repetition of the colonial strifes that marked the latter half
of the eighteenth century. Just as Europe, after solving the questions arising out of the religious
wars, betook itself to marketing in the waste lands over the seas, so too, when the impulses
arising from the incoming of the principles of democracy and nationality had worn themselves
out, the commercial and colonial motive again came uppermost. And, as in the eighteenth century,
so too after 1880 there was at hand an economic incentive spurring on the Powers to annexation
of new lands. France had recurred to protective tariffs in 1870. Germany, under Bismarck, followed
suit ten years later; and all the continental Powers in turn, oppressed by armaments and girt
around with hostile tariffs, turned instinctively to the unclaimed territories oversea as life-saving
annexes for their own overstocked industrial centres.

       *       *       *       *       *

It will be convenient to begin the recital of extra-European events by considering the expansion
of Russia and Great Britain in Central Asia. There, it is true, the commercial motive is less
prominent than that of political rivalry; and the foregoing remarks apply rather to the recent
history of Africa than to that of Central Asia. But, as the plan of this work is to some extent
chronological, it seems better to deal first with events which had their beginning further
back than those which relate to the partition of Africa.

The two great colonising and conquering movements of recent times are those which have proceeded
from London and Moscow as starting-points. In comparison with them the story of the enterprise
of the Portuguese and Dutch has little more than the interest that clings around an almost
vanished past. The halo of romance that hovers over the exploits of Spaniards in the New World
has all but faded away. Even the more solid achievements of the gallant sons of France in a
later age are of small account when compared with the five mighty commonwealths that bear witness
to the strength of the English stock and the adaptability of its institutions, or with the
portentous growth of the Russian Empire in Asia.

The methods of expansion of these two great colonial Empires are curiously different; and students
of Ancient History will recall a similar contrast in the story of the expansion of the Greek
and Latin races. The colonial Empire of England has been sown broadcast over the seas by adventurous
sailors, the freshness and spontaneity of whose actions recall corresponding traits in the
maritime life of Athens. Nursed by the sea, and filled with the love of enterprise and freedom
which that element inspires, both peoples sought wider spheres for their commerce, and homes
more spacious and wealthy than their narrow cradles offered; but, above all, they longed to
found a microcosm of Athens or England, with as little control from the mother-land as might be.

The Russian Empire, on the other hand, somewhat resembles that of Rome in its steady, persistent
extension of land boundaries by military and governmental methods. The Czars, like the Consuls
and Emperors of Rome, set to work with a definite purpose, and brought to bear on the shifting,
restless tribes beyond their borders the pressure of an unchanging policy and of a well-organised
administration. Both States relied on discipline and civilisation to overcome animal strength
and barbarism; and what they won by the sword, they kept by means of a good system of roads
and by military colonies. In brief, while Ancient Greece and Modern England worked through
sailors and traders, Rome and Russia worked through soldiers, road-makers, and proconsuls.
The Sea Powers trusted mainly to individual initiative and civic freedom; the Land Powers founded
their empires on organisation and order. The dominion of the former was sporadic and easily
dissolvable; that of the latter was solid, and liable to be destroyed only by some mighty cataclysm.
The contrast between them is as old and ineffaceable as that which subsists between the restless
sea and the unchanging plain.

While the comparison between England and Athens is incomplete, and at some points fallacious,
that between the Czars and the Cæsars is in many ways curiously close and suggestive. As soon
as the Roman eagles soared beyond the mighty ring of the Alps and perched securely on the slopes
of Gaul and Rhætia, the great Republic had the military advantage of holding the central position
as against the mutually hostile tribes of Western, Central, and Eastern Europe. Thanks to that
advantage, to her organisation, and to her military colonies, she pushed forward an ever-widening
girdle of empire, finally conferring the blessings of the pax Romana on districts as far remote
as the Tyne, the Lower Rhine and Danube, the Caucasus, and the Pillars of Hercules.

Russia also has used to the full the advantages conferred by a central position, an inflexible
policy, and a military-agrarian system well adapted to the needs of the nomadic peoples on
her borders. In the fifteenth century, her polity emerged victorious from the long struggle
with the Golden Horde of Tartars [I keep the usual spelling, though "Tatars" is the correct
form]; and, as the barbarous Mongolians lost their hold on the districts of the middle Volga,
the power of the Czars began its forward march, pressing back Asiatics on the East and Poles
on the West. In 1556, Ivan the Terrible seized Astrakan at the mouth of the Volga, and victoriously
held Russia's natural frontiers on the East, the Ural Mountains, and the northern shore of
the Caspian Sea. We shall deal in a later chapter with her conquest of Siberia, and need only
note here that Muscovite pioneers reached the shores of the Northern Pacific as early as the
year 1636.

Russia's conquests at the expense of Turks, Circassians, and Persians is a subject alien to
this narrative; and the tragic story of the overthrow of Poland at the hand of the three partitioning
Powers, Russia, Prussia, and Austria, does not concern us here.

It is, however, needful to observe the means by which she was able to survive the dire perils
of her early youth and to develop the colonising and conquering agencies of her maturer years.
They may be summed up in the single word, "Cossacks."

The Cossacks are often spoken of as though they were a race. They are not; they are bands or
communities, partly military, partly nomadic or agricultural, as the case may be. They can
be traced back to bands of outlaws who in the time of Russia's weakness roamed about on the
verge of her settlements, plundering indifferently their Slavonic kinsmen, or the Tartars and
Turks farther south. They were the "men of the plain," who had fled from the villages of the
Slavs, or (in fewer cases) from the caravans of the Tartars, owing to private feuds, or from
love of a freer and more lucrative life than that of the village or the encampment. In this
debatable land their numbers increased until, Slavs though they mainly were, they became a
menace to the growing power of the Czars. Ivan the Terrible sent expeditions against them,
transplanted many of their number, and compelled those who remained in the space between the
rivers Don and Ural to submit to his authority, and to give military service in time of war
in return for rights of pasturage and tillage in the districts thenceforth recognised as their
own. Some of them transferred their energies to Asia; and it was a Cossack outlaw, Jermak,
who conquered a great part of Siberia. The Russian pioneers, who early penetrated into Siberia
or Turkestan, found it possible at a later time to use these children of the plain as a kind
of protective belt against the warlike natives. The same use was made of them in the South
against Turks. Catharine II. broke the power of the "Zaporoghians" (Cossacks of the Dnieper),
and settled large numbers of them on the River Kuban to fight the Circassians.

In short, out of the driftwood and wreckage of their primitive social system the Russians framed
a bulwark against the swirling currents of the nomad world outside. In some respects the Cossacks
resemble the roving bands of Saxons and Franks who pushed forward roughly but ceaselessly the
boundaries of the Teutonic race[276]. But, whereas those offshoots soon came to have a life
of their own, apart from the parent stems, Russia, on the other hand, has known how to keep
a hold on her boisterous youth, turning their predatory instincts against her worst neighbours,
and using them as hardy irregulars in her wars.

[Footnote 276: See Cæsar, Gallic War, bk. vi., for an account of the formation, at the tribal
meeting, of a roving band.]

Considering the number of times that the Russian Government crushed the Cossack revolts, broke
up their self-made organisation, and transplanted unruly bands to distant parts, their almost
invariable loyalty to the central authority is very remarkable. It may be ascribed either to
the veneration which they felt for the Czar, to the racial sentiment which dwells within the
breast of nearly every Slav, or to their proximity to alien peoples whom they hated as Mohammedans
or despised as godless pagans. In any case, the Russian autocracy gained untold advantages
from the Cossack fringe on the confines of the Empire.

Some faint conception of the magnitude of that gain may be formed, if, by way of contrast,
we try to picture the Teutonic peoples always acting together, even through their distant offshoots;
or, again, if by a flight of fancy we can imagine the British Government making a wise use
of its old soldiers and the flotsam and jetsam of our cities for the formation of semi-military
colonies on the most exposed frontiers of the Empire. That which our senators have done only
in the case of the Grahamstown experiment of 1819, Russia has done persistently and successfully
with materials far less promising--a triumph of organisation for which she has received scant
credit.

The roving Cossacks have become practically a mounted militia, highly mobile in peace and in
war. Free from taxes, and enjoying certain agrarian or pastoral rights in the district which
they protect, their position in the State is fully assured. At times the ordinary Russian settlers
are turned into Cossacks. Either by that means, or by migration from Russia, or by a process
of accretion from among the conquered nomads, their ranks are easily recruited; and the readiness
with which Tartars and Turkomans are absorbed into this cheap and effective militia has helped
to strengthen Russia alike in peace and war. The source of strength open to her on this side
of her social system did not escape the notice of Napoleon--witness his famous remark that
within fifty years Europe would be either Republican or Cossack[277].

[Footnote 277: For the Cossacks, see D.M. Wallace's Russia, vol. ii. pp. 80-95; and Vladimir's
Russia on the Pacific, pp. 46-49. The former points out that their once democratic organisation
has vanished under the autocracy; and that their officers, appointed by the Czar, own most
of the land, formerly held in common.]

The firm organisation which Central Europe gained under the French Emperor's hammer-like blows
served to falsify the prophecy; and the stream of Russian conquest, dammed up on the west by
the newly-consolidated strength of Prussia and Austria, set strongly towards Asia. Pride at
her overthrow of the great conqueror in 1812 had quickened the national consciousness of Russia;
and besides this praiseworthy motive there was another perhaps equally potent, namely, the
covetousness of her ruling class. The Memoirs written by her bureaucrats and generals reveal
the extravagance, dissipation, and luxury of the Court circles. Fashionable society had as
its main characteristic a barbaric and ostentatious extravagance, alike in gambling and feasting,
in the festivals of the Court or in the scarcely veiled debauchery of its devotees. Baron Löwenstern,
who moved in its higher ranks, tells of cases of a license almost incredible to those who have
not pried among the garbage of the Court of Catharine II. This recklessness, resulting from
the tendency of the Muscovite nature, as of the Muscovite climate, to indulge in extremes,
begot an imperious need of large supplies of money; and, ground down as were the serfs on the
broad domains of the nobles, the resulting revenues were all too scanty to fill up the financial
void created by the urgent needs of St. Petersburg, Gatchina, or Monte Carlo. Larger domains
had to be won in order to outvie rivals or stave off bankruptcy; and these new domains could
most easily come by foreign conquest.

For an analogous reason, the State itself suffered from land hunger. Its public service was
no less corrupt than inefficient. Large sums frequently vanished, no one knew whither; but
one infallible cure for bankruptcy was always at hand, namely, conquests over Poles, Turks,
Circassians, or Tartars. To this Catharine II. had looked when she instituted the vicious practice
of paying the nobles for their services at Court; and during her long career of conquest she
greatly developed the old Muscovite system of meeting the costs of war out of the domains of
the vanquished, besides richly dowering the Crown, and her generals and favoured courtiers.
One of the Russian Ministers, referring to the notorious fact that his Government made war
for the sake of booty as well as glory, said to a Frenchman, "We have remained somewhat Asiatic
in that respect[278]." It is not always that a Minister reveals so frankly the motives that
help to mould the policy of a great State.

[Footnote 278: Quoted by Vandal, Napoléon I. et Alexandre, vol. i. p. 136.]

The predatory instinct, once acquired, does not readily pass away. Alexander I. gratified it
by forays in Circassia, even at the time when he was face to face with the might of the great
Napoleon; and after the fall of the latter, Russia pushed on her confines in Georgia until
they touched those of Persia. Under Nicholas I. little territory was added except the Kuban
coast on the Black Sea, Erivan to the south of Georgia, and part of the Kirghiz lands in Turkestan.

The reason for this quiescence was that almost up to the verge of the Crimean War Nicholas
hoped to come to an understanding with England respecting an eventual partition of the Turkish
Empire, Austria also gaining a share of the spoils. With the aim of baiting these proposals,
he offered, during his visit to London in 1844, to refrain from any movement against the Khanates
of Central Asia, concerning which British susceptibilities were becoming keen. His Chancellor,
Count Nesselrode, embodied these proposals in an important Memorandum, containing a promise
that Russia would leave the Khanates of Turkestan as a neutral zone in order to keep the Russian
and British possessions in Asia "from dangerous contact[279]."

[Footnote 279: Quoted on p. 14 of A Diplomatic Study on the Crimean War, issued by the Russian
Foreign Office, and attributed to Baron Jomini (Russian edition, 1879; English edition, 1882).]

For reasons which we need not detail, British Ministers rejected these overtures, and by degrees
England entered upon the task of defending the Sultan's dominions, largely on the assumption
that they formed a necessary bulwark of her Indian Empire. It is not our purpose to criticise
British policy at that time. We merely call attention to the fact that there seemed to be a
prospect of a friendly understanding with Russia respecting Turkey, Asia Minor, Egypt, and
Central Asia; and that the British Government decided to maintain the integrity of Turkey by
attacking the Power which seemed about to impugn it. As a result, Turkey secured a new lease
of life by the Crimean War, while Alexander II. deemed himself entirely free to press on Asiatic
conquests from which his father had refrained. Thus, the two great expanding Powers entered
anew on that course of rivalry in Asia which has never ceased, and which forms to-day the sole
barrier to a good understanding between them.

After the Crimean War circumstances favoured the advance of the Russian arms. England, busied
with the Sepoy Mutiny in India, cared little what became of the rival Khans of Turkestan; and
Lord Lawrence, Governor-General of India in 1863-69, enunciated the soothing doctrine that
"Russia might prove a safer neighbour than the wild tribes of Central Asia." The Czar's emissaries
therefore had easy work in fomenting the strifes that constantly arose in Bokhara, Khiva, and
Tashkend, with the result that in 1864 the last-named was easily acquired by Russia. We may
add here that Tashkend is now an important railway centre in the Russian Central Asian line,
and that large stores of food and material are there accumulated, which may be utilised in
case Russia makes a move against Afghanistan or Northern India.

In 1868 an outbreak of Mohammedan fanaticism in Bokhara brought the Ameer of that town into
collision with the Russians, who thereupon succeeded in taking Samarcand. The capital of the
empire of Tamerlane, "the scourge of Asia," now sank to the level of an outpost of Russian
power, and ultimately to that of a mart for cotton. The Khan of Bokhara fell into a position
of complete subservience, and ceded to the conquerors the whole of his province of Samarcand[280].

[Footnote 280: For an account of Samarcand and Bokhara, see Russia in Central Asia, by Hon.
G. (Lord) Curzon (1889); A. Vambéry's Travels in Central Asia (1867-68); Rev. H. Lansdell,
Russian Central Asia, 2 vols. (1885); E. Schuyler, Journey in Russian Turkestan, etc., 2 vols.
(1876); E. O'Donovan, The Merv Oasis, 2 vols. (1883).]

It is believed that the annexation of Samarcand was contrary to the intentions of the Czar.
Alexander II. was a friend of peace; and he had no desire to push forward his frontiers to
the verge of Afghanistan, where friction would probably ensue with the British Government.
Already he had sought to allay the irritation prevalent in Russophobe circles in England. In
November 1864, his Chancellor, Prince Gortchakoff, issued a circular setting forth the causes
that impelled the Russians on their forward march. It was impossible, he said, to keep peace
with uncivilised and predatory tribes on their frontiers. Russia must press on until she came
into touch with a State whose authority would guarantee order on the boundaries. The argument
was a strong one; and it may readily be granted that good government, civilisation, and commerce
have benefited by the extension of the pax Russica over the slave-hunting Turkomans and the
inert tribes of Siberia.

Nevertheless, as Gortchakoff's circular expressed the intention of refraining from conquest
for the sake of conquest, the irritation in England became very great when the conquest of
Tashkend, and thereafter of Samarcand, was ascribed, apparently on good grounds, to the ambition
of the Russian commanders, Tchernaieff and Kaufmann respectively. On the news of the capture
of Samarcand reaching London, the Russian ambassador hastened to assure the British Cabinet
that his master did not intend to retain his conquest. Nevertheless, it was retained. The doctrine
of political necessity proved to be as expansive as Russia's boundaries; and, after the rapid
growth of the Indian Empire under Lord Dalhousie, the British Government could not deny the
force of the plea.

This mighty stride forward brought Russia to the northern bounds of Afghanistan, a land which
was thenceforth to be the central knot of diplomatic problems of vast magnitude. It will therefore
be well, in beginning our survey of a question which was to test the efficacy of autocracy
and democracy in international affairs, to gain some notion of the physical and political conditions
of the life of that people.

As generally happens in a mountainous region in the midst of a great continent, their country
exhibits various strata of conquest and settlement. The northern district, sloping towards
Turkestan, is inhabited mainly by Turkomans who have not yet given up their roving habits.
The rugged hill country bordering on the Punjab is held by Pathans and Ghilzais, who are said
by some to be of the same stock as the Afghans. On the other hand, a well-marked local legend
identifies the Afghans proper with the lost ten tribes of Israel; and those who love to speculate
on that elusive and delusive subject may long use their ingenuity in speculating whether the
oft-quoted text as to the chosen people possessing the gates of their enemies is more applicable
to the sea-faring and sea-holding Anglo-Saxons or to the pass-holding Afghans.

That elevated plateau, ridged with lofty mountains and furrowed with long clefts, has seen
Turkomans, Persians, and many other races sweep over it; and the mixture of these and other
races, perhaps including errant Hebrews, has there acquired the sturdiness, tenacity, and clannishness
that mark the fragments of three nations clustering together in the Alpine valleys; while it
retains the turbulence and fierceness of a full-blooded Asiatic stock. The Afghan problem is
complicated by these local differences and rivalries; the north cohering with the Turkomans,
Herat and the west having many affinities and interests in common with Persia, Candahar being
influenced by Baluchistan, while the hill tribes of the north-east bristle with local peculiarities
and aboriginal savagery. These districts can be welded together only by the will of a great
ruler or in the white heat of religious fanaticism; and while Moslem fury sometimes unites
all the Afghan clans, the Moslem marriage customs result fully as often in a superfluity of
royal heirs, which gives rein to all the forces that make for disruption. Afghanistan is a
hornet's nest; and yet, as we shall see presently, owing to geographical and strategical reasons,
it cannot be left severely alone. The people are to the last degree clannish; and nothing but
the grinding pressure of two mighty Empires has endowed them with political solidarity.

It is not surprising that British statesmen long sought to avoid all responsibility for the
internal affairs of such a land. As we have seen, the theory which found favour with Lord Lawrence
was that of intervening as little as possible in the affairs of States bordering on India,
a policy which was termed "masterly inactivity" by the late Mr. J.W.S. Wyllie. It was the outcome
of the experience gained in the years 1839-42, when, after alienating Dost Mohammed, the Ameer
of Afghanistan, by its coolness, the Indian Government rushed to the other extreme and invaded
the country in order to tear him from the arms of the more effusive Russians.

The results are well known. Overweening confidence and military incapacity finally led to the
worst disaster that befell a British army during the nineteenth century, only one officer escaping
from among the 4500 troops and 12,000 camp followers who sought to cut their way back through
the Khyber Pass[281]. A policy of non-intervention in the affairs of so fickle and savage a
people naturally ensued, and was stoutly maintained by Lords Canning, Elgin, and Lawrence,
who held sway during and after the great storm of the Indian Mutiny. The worth of that theory
of conduct came to be tested in 1863, on the occasion of the death of Dost Mohammed, who had
latterly recovered Herat from Persia, and brought nearly the whole of the Afghan clans under
his sway. He had been our friend during the Mutiny, when his hostility might readily have turned
the wavering scales of war; and he looked for some tangible return for his loyal behaviour
in preventing the attempt of some of his restless tribesmen to recover the once Afghan city
of Peshawur.

[Footnote 281: Sir J.W. Kaye, History of the War in Afghanistan, 5 vols. (1851-78).]

To his surprise and disgust he met with no return whatever, even in a matter which most nearly
concerned his dynasty and the future of Afghanistan. As generally happens with Moslem rulers,
the aged Ameer occupied his declining days with seeking to provide against the troubles that
naturally resulted from the oriental profusion of his marriages. Dost Mohammed's quiver was
blessed with the patriarchal equipment of sixteen sons--most of them stalwart, warlike, and
ambitious. Eleven of them limited their desires to parts of Afghanistan, but five of them aspired
to rule over all the tribes that go to make up that seething medley. Of these, Shere Ali was
the third in age but the first in capacity, if not in prowess. Moreover, he was the favourite
son of Dost Mohammed; but where rival mothers and rival tribes were concerned, none could foresee
the issue of the pending conflict[282].

[Footnote 282: G.B. Malleson, History of Afghanistan, p. 421.]

Dost Mohammed sought to avert it by gaining the effective support of the Indian Government
for his Benjamin. He pleaded in vain. Lord Canning, Governor-General of India at the time of
the Mutiny, recognised Shere Ali as heir-apparent, but declined to give any promise of support
either in arms or money. Even after the Mutiny was crushed, Lord Canning and his successor,
Lord Elgin, adhered to the former decision, refusing even a grant of money and rifles for which
father and son pleaded.

As we have said, Dost Mohammed died in 1863; but even when Shere Ali was face to face with
formidable family schisms and a widespread revolt, Lord Lawrence clung to the policy of recognising
only "de facto Powers," that is, Powers which actually existed and could assert their authority.
All that he offered was to receive Shere Ali in conference, and give him good advice; but he
would only recognise him as Ameer of Afghanistan if he could prevail over his brothers and
their tribesmen. He summed it up in this official letter of April 17, 1866, sent to the Governor
of the Punjab:--

It should be our policy to show clearly that we will not interfere in the struggle, that we
will not aid either party, that we will leave the Afghans to settle their own quarrels, and
that we are willing to be on terms of amity and good-will with the nation and with their rulers
de facto. Suitable opportunities can be taken to declare that these are the principles which
will guide our policy; and it is the belief of the Governor-General that such a policy will
in the end be appreciated[283].

[Footnote 283: Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 1 (1878), p. 10. For a defence of this policy
of "masterly inactivity," see Mr. Bosworth Smith's Life of Lord Lawrence, vol. ii. pp. 570-590;
also Mr. J.W.S. Wyllie's Essays on the External Policy of India.]

The Afghans did not appreciate it. Shere All protested that it placed a premium on revolt;
he also complained that the Viceroy not only gave him no help, but even recognised his rival,
Ufzul, when the latter captured Cabul. After the death of Ufzul and the assumption of authority
at Cabul by a third brother, Azam, Shere Ali by a sudden and desperate attempt drove his rival
from Cabul (September 8, 1868) and practically ended the schisms and strifes which for five
years had rent Afghanistan in twain. Then, but then only, did Lord Lawrence consent to recognise
him as Ameer of the whole land, and furnish him with £60,000 and a supply of arms. An act which,
five years before, would probably have ensured the speedy triumph of Shere Ali and his lasting
gratitude to Great Britain, now laid him under no sense of obligation[284].

[Footnote 284: The late Duke of Argyll in his Eastern Question (vol. ii. p. 42) cited the fact
of this offer of money and arms as a proof that Lord Lawrence was not wedded to the theory
of "masterly inactivity," and stated that the gift helped Shere Ali to complete his success.
It is clear, however, that Lord Lawrence waited to see whether that success was well assured
before the offer was made.

The Duke of Argyll proves one thing, that the action of Lord Lawrence in September 1868 was
not due to Sir Henry Rawlinson's despatch from London (dated July 20, 1868) in favour of more
vigorous action. It was due to Lawrence's perception of the change brought about by Russian
action in the Khanate of Bokhara, near the Afghan border.]

Moreover, there is every reason to think that Shere Ali, with the proneness of orientals to
refer all actions to the most elemental motives, attributed the change of front at Calcutta
solely to fear. That was the time when the Russian capture of Samarcand cowed the Khan of Bokhara
and sent a thrill through Central Asia. In the political psychology of the Afghans, the tardy
arrival at Cabul of presents from India argued little friendship for Shere Ali, but great dread
of the conquering Muscovites.

Such, then, was the policy of "masterly inactivity" in 1863-68, cheap for India, but excessively
costly for Afghanistan. Lord Lawrence rendered incalculable services to India before and during
the course of the Mutiny, but his conduct towards Shere Ali is certainly open to criticism.
The late Duke of Argyll, Secretary of State for India in the Gladstone Ministry (1868-74),
supported it in his work, The Eastern Question, on the ground that the Anglo-Afghan treaty
of 1855 pledged the British not to interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan[285]. But uncalled
for interference is one thing; to refuse even a slight measure of help to an ally, who begs
it as a return for most valuable services, is quite another thing.

[Footnote 285: The Duke of Argyll, op. cit. vol. ii. p. 226 (London, 1879). For the treaty,
see Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 1 (1878), p. 1.]

Moreover, the Viceroy himself was brought by the stern logic of events implicitly to give up
his policy. In one of his last official despatches, written on January 4, 1869, he recognised
the gain to Russia that must accrue from our adherence to a merely passive policy in Central
Asian affairs. He suggested that we should come to a "clear understanding with the Court of
St. Petersburg as to its projects and designs in Central Asia, and that it might be given to
understand in firm but courteous language, that it cannot be permitted to interfere in the
affairs of Afghanistan, or in those of any State which lies contiguous to our frontier."

This sentence tacitly implied a change of front; for any prohibition to Russia to interfere
in the affairs of Afghanistan virtually involved Britain's claim to exercise some degree of
suzerainty in that land. The way therefore seemed open for a new departure, especially as the
new Governor-General, Lord Mayo, was thought to favour the more vigorous ideas latterly prevalent
at Westminster. But when Shere Ali met the new Viceroy in a splendid Durbar at Umballa (March
1869) and formulated his requests for effective British support, in case of need, they were,
in the main, refused[286].

[Footnote 286: Sir W.W. Hunter, The Earl of Mayo, p. 125 (Oxford, 1891); the Duke of Argyll,
op. cit. vol. ii, p. 252.]

We may here use the words in which the late Duke of Argyll summed up the wishes of the Ameer
and the replies of Lord Mayo:--

He (the Ameer) wanted to have an unconditional treaty, offensive and defensive. He wanted to
have a fixed subsidy. He wanted to have a dynastic guarantee. He would have liked sometimes
to get the loan of English officers to drill his troops, or to construct his forts--provided
they retired the moment they had done this work for him. On the other hand, officers "resident"
in his country as political agents of the British Government were his abhorrence.

Lord Mayo's replies, or pledges, were virtually as follows:--

The first pledge (says the Duke of Argyll) was that of non-interference in his (the Ameer's)
affairs. The second pledge was that "we would support his independence." The third pledge was
"that we would not force European officers, or residents, upon him against his wish[287]."

[Footnote 287: Argyll, op. cit. vol. i. Preface, pp. xxiii.-xxvi.]

There seems to have been no hopeless contrariety between the views of the Ameer and the Viceroy
save in one matter that will be noted presently. It is also of interest to learn from the Duke's
narrative, which claims to be official in substance, however partisan it may be in form, that
there was no difference of opinion on this important subject between Lord Mayo and the Gladstone
Ministry, which came to power shortly after his departure for India. The new Viceroy summed
up his views in the following sentence, written to the Duke of Argyll: "The safe course lies
in watchfulness, and friendly intercourse with neighbouring tribes."

Apparently, then, there was a fair chance of arriving at an agreement with the Ameer. But the
understanding broke down on the question of the amount of support to be accorded to Shere Ali's
dynasty. That ruler wished for an important modification of the Anglo-Afghan treaty of 1855,
which had bound his father to close friendship with the old Company without binding the Company
to intervene in his favour. That, said Shere Ali, was a "dry friendship." He wanted a friendship
more fruitful than that of the years 1863-67, and a direct support to his dynasty whenever
he claimed it. The utmost concession that Lord Mayo would grant was that the British Government
would "view with severe displeasure any attempt to disturb your position as Ruler of Cabul,
and rekindle civil war[288]."

[Footnote 288: Argyll, op. cit. vol. ii. p. 263.]

It seems that Shere Ali thought lightly of Britain's "displeasure," for he departed ill at
ease. Not even the occasional presents of money and weapons that found their way from Calcutta
to Cabul could thenceforth keep his thoughts from turning northwards towards Russia. At Umballa
he had said little about that Power; and the Viceroy had very wisely repressed any feelings
of anxiety that he may have had on that score. Possibly the strength and cheeriness of Lord
Mayo's personality would have helped to assuage the Ameer's wounded feelings; but that genial
Irishman fell under the dagger of a fanatic during a tour in the Andaman Islands (February
1872). His death was a serious event. Shere Ali cherished towards him feelings which he did
not extend to his successor, Lord Northbrook (1872-76).

Yet, during that vice-royalty, the diplomatic action of Great Britain secured for the Ameer
the recognition of his claims over the northern part of Afghanistan, as far as the banks of
the Upper Oxus. In the years 1870-72 Russia stoutly contested those claims, but finally withdrew
them, the Emperor declaring at the close of the latter year "that such a question should not
be a cause of difference between the two countries, and he was determined it should not be
so." It is further noteworthy that Russian official communications more than once referred
to the Ameer of Afghanistan as being "under the protection of the Indian Government[289]".

[Footnote 289: Argyll, op. cit. vol. ii. pp. 289, 292. For the Czar's assurance that "extension
of territory" was "extension of weakness," see Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 1 (1878), p. 101.]

These signal services of British diplomacy counted for little at Cabul in comparison with the
question of the dynastic guarantee which we persistently withheld. In the spring of 1873, when
matters relating to the Afghan-Persian frontier had to be adjusted, the Ameer sent his Prime
Minister to Simla with the intention of using every diplomatic means for the extortion of that
long-delayed boon.

The time seemed to favour his design. Apart from the Persian boundary questions (which were
settled in a manner displeasing to the Ameer), trouble loomed ahead in Central Asia. The Russians
were advancing on Khiva; and the Afghan statesman, during his stay at Simla, sought to intimidate
Lord Northbrook by parading this fact. He pointed out that Russia would easily conquer Khiva
and then would capture Merv, near the western frontier of Afghanistan, "either in the current
year or the next." Equally obvious was his aim in insisting that "the interests of the Afghan
and English Governments are identical," and that "the border of Afghanistan is in truth the
border of India." These were ingenious ways of working his intrenchments up to the hitherto
inaccessible citadel of Indian border policy. The news of the Russian advance on Khiva lent
strength to his argument.

Yet, when he came to the question of the guarantee of Shere Ali's dynasty, he again met with
a rebuff. In truth, Lord Northbrook and his advisers saw that the Ameer was seeking to frighten
them about Russia in order to improve his own family prospects in Afghanistan; and, paying
too much attention, perhaps, to the oriental artfulness of the method of request, and too little
to the importance of the questions then at stake, he decided to meet the Ameer in regard to
non-essentials, though he failed to satisfy him on the one thing held to be needful at the
palace of Cabul.

Anxious, however, to consult the Home Government on a matter of such importance, now that the
Russians were known to be at Khiva, Lord Northbrook telegraphed to the Duke of Argyll on July
24, 1873:--

Ameer of Cabul alarmed at Russian progress, dissatisfied with general assurance, and anxious
to know how far he may rely on our help if invaded. I propose assuring him that if he unreservedly
accepts and acts on our advice in all external relations, we will help him with money, arms,
and troops, if necessary, to expel unprovoked aggression. We to be the judge of the necessity.
Answer by telegraph quickly.

The Gladstone Ministry was here at the parting of the ways. The Ameer asked them to form an
alliance on equal terms. They refused, believing, as it seems, that they could keep to the
old one-sided arrangement of 1855, whereby the Ameer promised effective help to the Indian
Government, if need be, and gained only friendly assurance in return. The Duke of Argyll telegraphed
in reply on July 26:--

Cabinet thinks you should inform Ameer that we do not at all share his alarm, and consider
there is no cause for it; but you may assure him we shall maintain our settled policy in favour
of Afghanistan if he abides by our advice in external affairs[290].

[Footnote 290: Argyll, op. cit. vol. ii. 331. The Gladstone Cabinet clearly weakened Lord Northbrook's
original proposal, and must therefore bear a large share of responsibility for the alienation
of the Ameer which soon ensued. The Duke succeeded in showing up many inaccuracies in the versions
of these events afterwards given by Lord Lytton and Lord Cranbrook; but he was seemingly quite
unconscious of the consequences resulting from adherence to an outworn theory.]

This answer, together with a present of £100,000 and 20,000 rifles, was all that the Ameer
gained; his own shrewd sense had shown him long before that Britain must in any case defend
Afghanistan against Russia. What he wanted was an official recognition of his own personal
position as ruler, while he acted, so to speak, as the "Count of the Marches" of India. The
Gladstone Government held out no hopes of assuring the future of their Mark-graf or of his
children after him. The remembrance of the disaster in the Khyber Pass in 1841 haunted them,
as it had done their predecessors, like a ghost, and scared them from the course of action
which might probably have led to the conclusion of a close offensive and defensive alliance
between India and Afghanistan.

Such a consummation was devoutly to be hoped for in view of events which had transpired in
Central Asia. Khiva had been captured by the Russians. This Khanate intervened between Bokhara
and the Caspian Sea, which the Russians used as their base of operations on the west. The plea
of necessity was again put forward, and it might have been urged as forcibly on geographical
and strategic grounds as on the causes that were alleged for the rupture. They consisted mainly
of the frontier incidents that are wont to occur with restless, uncivilised neighbours. The
Czar's Government also accused the Khivans of holding some Russian subjects in captivity, and
of breaking their treaty of 1842 with Russia by helping the Khirgiz Horde in a recent revolt
against their new masters.

Russia soon had ready three columns, which were to converge on Khiva: one was stationed on
the River Ural, a second at the rising port of Krasnovodsk on the Caspian Sea, and a third,
under General Kaufmann, at Tashkend. So well were their operations timed that, though the distances
to be traversed varied from 480 to 840 miles, in parts over a waterless desert, yet the three
chief forces arrived almost simultaneously at Khiva and met with the merest show of resistance
(June 1873). Setting the young Khan on the throne of his father, they took from him his ancestral
lands of the right bank of the Amu Daria (Oxus) and imposed on him a crushing war indemnity
of 2,200,000 roubles, which assured his entire dependence on his new creditors. They further
secured their hold on these diminished territories by erecting two forts on the river[291].
The Czar's Government was content with assuring its hold upon Khiva, without annexing the Khanate
outright, seeing that it had disclaimed any such intention[292]. All the same, Russia was now
mistress of nearly the whole of Central Asia; and the advance of roads and railways portended
further conquests at the expense of Persia and the few remaining Turkoman tribes.

[Footnote 291: J. Popowski, The Rival Powers in Central Asia, p. 47 (Eng. edit).; A. Vambéry,
The Coming Struggle for India, p. 21; A.R. Colquhoun, Russia against India, pp. 24-26; Lavisse
and Rambaud, Histoire Générale, vol. xii. pp. 793-794.]

[Footnote 292: Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 1 (1878), p. 101.]

In order to estimate the importance of these facts, it must be remembered that the teachings
of Geography and History concur in showing the practicability of an invasion of India from
Central Asia. Touching first the geographical facts, we may point out that India and Afghanistan
stand in somewhat the same relation to the Asiatic continent that Italy and Switzerland hold
to that of Europe. The rich lands and soft climate of both Peninsulas have always been an irresistible
attraction to the dwellers among the more barren mountains and plains of the North; and the
lie of the land on the borders of both of these seeming Eldorados favours the advance of more
virile peoples in their search for more genial conditions of life. Nature, which enervates
the defenders in their sultry plains, by her rigorous training imparts a touch of the wolf
to the mountaineers or plain-dwellers of the North; and her guides (rivers and streams) conduct
the hardy seekers for the sun by easy routes up to the final mountain barriers. Finally, those
barriers, the Alps and the Hindu Koosh, are notched by passes that are practicable for large
armies, as has been seen now and again from the times of Alexander the Great and Hannibal to
those of Nadir Shah and Napoleon.

In these conditions, physical and climatic, is to be found the reason for the success that
has so often attended the invasions of Italy and India. Only when the Romans organised all
the forces of their Peninsula and the fresh young life beyond, were the defensive powers of
Italy equal to her fatally attractive powers. Only when Britain undertook the defence of India,
could her peoples feel sure of holding the North-West against the restless Pathans and Afghans;
and the situation was wholly changed when a great military Empire pushed its power to the river-gates
of Afghanistan.

The friendship of the Ameer was now a matter of vital concern; and yet, as we have seen, Lord
Northbrook alienated him, firstly by giving an unfavourable verdict in regard to the Persian
boundary in the district of Seistan, and still more so by refusing to grant the long-wished-for
guarantee of his dynasty.

The year 1873 marks a fatal turning-point in Anglo-Afghan relations. Yakub Khan told Lord Roberts
at Cabul in 1879 that his father, Shere Ali, had been thoroughly disgusted with Lord Northbrook
in 1873, "and at once made overtures to the Russians, with whom constant intercourse had since
been kept up[293]."

[Footnote 293: Lord Roberts, Forty-one Years in India, vol. ii. p. 247; also Life of Abdur
Rahman, by Mohammed Khan, 2 vols. (1900), vol. i. p. 149.]

In fact, all who are familiar with the events preceding the first Afghan War (1839-42) can
now see that events were fast drifting into a position dangerously like that which led Dost
Mohammed to throw himself into the arms of Russia. At that time also the Afghan ruler had sought
to gain the best possible terms for himself and his dynasty from the two rivals; and, finding
that the Russian promises were far more alluring than those emanating from Calcutta, he went
over to the Muscovites. At bottom that had been the determining cause of the first Afghan War;
and affairs were once more beginning to revolve in the same vicious circle. Looking back on
the events leading up to the second Afghan War, we can now see that a frank compliance with
the demands of Shere Ali would have been far less costly than the non-committal policy which
in 1873 alienated him. Outwardly he posed as the aggrieved but still faithful friend. In reality
he was looking northwards for the personal guarantee which never came from Calcutta.

It should, however, be stated that up to the time of the fall of the Gladstone Ministry (February
1874), Russia seemed to have no desire to meddle in Afghan affairs. The Russian Note of January
21, 1874, stated that the Imperial Government "continued to consider Afghanistan as entirely
beyond its sphere of action[294]." Nevertheless, that declaration inspired little confidence.
The Russophobes, headed by Sir Henry Rawlinson and Sir Bartle Frere, could reply that they
distrusted Russian disclaimers concerning Afghanistan, when the plea of necessity had so frequently
and so speedily relegated to oblivion the earlier "assurances of intention."

[Footnote 294: Argyll, Eastern Question, vol. ii. p. 347. See, however, the letters that passed
between General Kaufmann, Governor of Turkestan, and Cabul in 1870-74, in Parl. Papers, Central
Asia, No. 1 (1881), pp. 2-10.]

Such was the state of affairs when, in February 1874, Disraeli came to power at Westminster
with Lord Salisbury as Secretary of State for India. The new Ministry soon showed the desire
to adopt a more spirited foreign policy than their predecessors, who had fretted public opinion
by their numerous acts of complaisance or surrender. Russia soon gave cause for complaint.
In June 1874 the Governor of the trans-Caspian province issued a circular, warning the nomad
Turkomans of the Persian border-lands against raiding; it applied to tribes inhabiting districts
within what were considered to be the northern boundaries of Persia. This seemed to contravene
the assurances previously given by Russia that she would not extend her possessions in the
southern part of Central Asia[295]. It also foreshadowed another stride forward at the expense
of the Turkoman districts both of Persia and Afghanistan.

[Footnote 295: Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 1 (1878), p. 107.]

As no sufficient disclaimer appeared, the London partisans of the Indian "forward policy" sought
to induce Lord Derby and Lord Salisbury to take precautionary measures. Their advice was summed
up in the Note of January 11, 1875, written by that charming man and able administrator, Sir
Bartle Frere. Its chief practical recommendation was, firstly, the despatch of British officers
to act as political agents at Cabul, Candahar, and Herat; and, secondly, the occupation of
the commanding position of Quetta, in Baluchistan, as an outpost commanding the chief line
of advance from Central Asia into India[296].

[Footnote 296: General Jacob had long before advocated the occupation of this strong flanking
position. It was supported by Sir C. Dilke in his Greater Britain (1867).]

This Note soon gained the ear of the Cabinet; and on January 22, 1875, Lord Salisbury urged
Lord Northbrook to take measures to procure the assent of the Ameer to the establishment of
British officers at Candahar and Herat (not at Cabul)[297]. The request placed Lord Northbrook
in an embarrassing position, seeing that he knew full well the great reluctance of the Ameer
at all times to receive any British Mission. On examining the evidence as to the Ameer's objection
to receive British Residents, the viceroy found it to be very strong, while there is ground
for thinking that Ministers and officials in London either ignored it or sought to minimise
its importance. The pressure which they brought to bear on Lord Northbrook was one of the causes
that led to his resignation (February 1876). He believed that he was in honour bound by the
promise, given to the Ameer at the Umballa Conference, not to impose a British Resident on
him against his will.

[Footnote 297: Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 1 (1878), pp. 128-129.]

He was succeeded by a man of marked personality, Lord Lytton. The only son of the celebrated
novelist, he inherited decided literary gifts, especially an unusual facility of expression
both in speech and writing, in prose and verse. Any tendency to redundance in speech is generally
counted unfavourable to advancement in diplomatic circles, where Talleyrand's mot as to language
being a means of concealing thought still finds favour. Owing, however, to the influence of
his uncle, then British Ambassador at Washington, but far more to his own talents, Lytton rose
rapidly in the diplomatic service, holding office in the chief embassies, until Disraeli discerned
in the brilliant speaker and writer the gifts that would grace the new imperial policy in the East.

In ordinary times the new Viceroy would probably have crowned the new programme with success.
His charm and vivacity of manner appealed to orientals all the more by contrast with the cold
and repellent behaviour that too often characterises Anglo-Indian officials in their dealings
with natives. Lytton's mind was tinged with the eastern glow that lit up alike the stories,
the speeches, and the policy of his chief. It is true, the imperialist programme was as grandiosely
vague as the meaning of Tancred itself; but in a land where forms and words count for much
the lack of backbone in the new policy was less observed and commented on than by the matter-of-fact
islanders whom it was designed to glorify.

The apotheosis of the new policy was the proclamation of Queen Victoria as Empress of India
(July 1, 1877), an event which was signalised by a splendid Durbar at Delhi on January 1, 1878.
The new title warned the world that, however far Russia advanced in Central Asia, England nailed
the flag of India to her masthead. It was also a useful reminder to the small but not uninfluential
Positivist school in England that their "disapproval" of the existence of a British Empire
in India was wholly Platonic. Seeing also that the name "Queen" in Hindu (Malika) was one of
merely respectable mediocrity in that land of splendour, the new title, "Kaisar-i-Hind," helped
to emphasise the supremacy of the British Raj over the Nizam and Gaekwar. In fact, it is difficult
now to take seriously the impassioned protests with which a number of insulars greeted the
proposal.

Nevertheless, in one sense the change of title came about most inopportunely. Fate willed that
over against the Durbar at Delhi there stood forth the spectral form of Famine, bestriding
the dusty plains of the Carnatic. By the glint of her eyes the splendours of Delhi shone pale,
and the viceregal eloquence was hushed in the distant hum of her multitudinous wailing. The
contrast shocked all beholders, and unfitted them for a proper appreciation of the new foreign
policy.

That policy may also be arraigned on less sentimental grounds. The year 1876 witnessed the
re-opening of the Eastern Question in a most threatening manner, the Disraeli Ministry taking
up what may be termed the Palmerstonian view that the maintenance of Turkey was essential to
the stability of the Indian Empire. As happened in and after 1854, Russia, when thwarted in
Europe, sought for her revenge in the lands bordering on India. No district was so favourable
to Muscovite schemes as the Afghan frontier, then, as now, the weakest point in Great Britain's
imperial armour. Thenceforth the Afghan Question became a pendant of the Eastern Question.

Russia found ready to hand the means of impressing the Ameer with a sense of her irresistible
power. The Czar's officials had little difficulty in picking a quarrel with the Khanate of
Khokand. Under the pretext of suppressing a revolt (which Vambéry and others consider to have
been prepared through Muscovite agencies) they sent troops, ostensibly with the view of favouring
the Khan. The expedition gained a complete success, alike over the rebels and the Khan himself,
who thenceforth sank to the level of pensioner of his liberators (1876). It is significant
that General Kaufmann at once sent to the Ameer at Cabul a glowing account of the Russian success[298];
and the news of this communication increased the desire of the British Government to come to
a clear understanding with the Ameer.

[Footnote 298: Parl. Papers, Central Asia, No. 1 (1881), pp. 12-14; Shere Ali's letters to
him (some of them suspicious) and the replies are also printed.]

Unfortunately our authorities set to work in a way that increased his irritation. Lord Salisbury
on February 28, 1876, instructed Lord Lytton to offer slightly larger concessions to Shere
Ali; but he refused to go further than to allow "a frank recognition (not a guarantee) of a
de facto order in the succession" to the throne of Afghanistan, and undertook to defend his
dominions against external attack "only in some clear case of unprovoked aggression." On the
other hand, the British Government stated that "they must have, for their own agents, undisputed
access to [the] frontier positions [of Afghanistan][299]." Thus, while granting very little
more than before, the new Ministry claimed for British agents and officers a right of entry
which wounded the pride of a suspicious ruler and a fanatical people.

[Footnote 299: Parl. Papers, Central Asia, No. 1 (1881), pp. 156-159.]

To sum up, we gave Shere Ali no help while he was struggling for power with his rivals; and
after he had won the day, we pinned him to the terms of a one-sided alliance. In the matter
of the Seistan frontier dispute with Persia, British arbitration was insolently defied by the
latter Power, yet we urged the Ameer to accept the Shah's terms. According to Lord Napier of
Magdala, he felt the loss of the once Afghan district of Seistan more keenly than anything
else, and thenceforth regarded us as weak and untrustworthy[300].

[Footnote 300: Ibid. pp. 225-226.]

The Ameer's irritation increased at the close of the year when the Viceroy concluded an important
treaty with the Khan of Khelat in Baluchistan. It would take us too far from our main path
to turn aside into the jungle of Baluchee politics. Suffice it to say that the long series
of civil strifes in that land had come to an end largely owing to the influence of Major (afterwards
Sir Robert) Sandeman. His fine presence, masterful personality, frank, straightforward, and
kindly demeanour early impressed the Khan and his turbulent Sirdars. In two Missions which
he undertook to Khelat in the years 1875 and 1876, he succeeded in stilling their internal
feuds and in clearing away the misunderstandings which had arisen with the Indian Government.
But he saw still further ahead. Detecting signs of foreign intrigue in that land, he urged
that British mediation should, if possible, become permanent. His arguments before long convinced
the new Viceroy, Lord Lytton, who had at first doubted the advisability of the second Mission;
and in the course of a tour along the north-west frontier, he held at Jacobabad a grand Durbar,
which was attended by the Khan of Khelat and his once rebellious Sirdars. There on December
8, 1876, he signed a treaty with the Khan, whereby the British Government became the final
arbiter in all disputes between him and his Sirdars, obtained the right of stationing British
troops in certain parts of Baluchistan, and of constructing railways and telegraphs. Three
lakhs of rupees were given to the Khan, and his yearly subsidy of Rs. 50,000 was doubled[301].

[Footnote 301: Sir Robert Sandeman, by T.H. Thornton, chaps, ix.-x.; Parl. Papers relating
to the Treaty . . . of 8th Dec. 1876; The Forward Policy and its Results, by R.I. Bruce; Lord
Lytton's Indian Administration, by Lady Betty Balfour, chap. iii.

The Indian rupee is worth sixteen pence.]

The Treaty of Jacobabad is one of the most satisfactory diplomatic triumphs of the present
age. It came, not as the sequel to a sanguinary war, but as a sign of the confidence inspired
in turbulent and sometimes treacherous chiefs by the sterling qualities of those able frontier
statesmen, the Napiers, the Lawrences, General Jacob, and Major Sandeman. It spread the pax
Britannica over a land as large as Great Britain, and quietly brought a warlike people within
the sphere of influence of India. It may be compared with Bonaparte's Act of Mediation in Switzerland
(1803), as marking the triumph of a strong organising intelligence over factious groups, to
which it imparted peace and order under the shelter of a generally beneficent suzerainty. Before
long a strong garrison was posted at Quetta, and we gained the right to enlist Baluchee troops
of excellent fighting powers. The Quetta position is a mountain bastion which strengthens the
outer defences of India, just as the Alps and Juras, when under Napoleon's control, menaced
any invaders of France.

This great advantage was weighted by one considerable drawback. The victory of British influence
in Baluchistan aroused the utmost resentment of Shere Ali, who now saw his southern frontier
outflanked by Britain. Efforts were made in January-February 1877 to come to an understanding;
but, as Lord Lytton insisted on the admission of British Residents to Afghanistan, a long succession
of interviews at Peshawur, between the Ameer's chief adviser and Sir Lewis Pelly, led to no
other result than an increase of suspicion on both sides. The Viceroy thereupon warned the
Ameer that all supplies and subsidies would be stopped until he became amenable to advice and
ceased to maltreat subjects known to be favourable to the British alliance. As a retort the
Ameer sought to call the border tribes to a Jehad, or holy war, against the British, but with
little success. He had no hold over the tribes between Chitral and the Khyber Pass; and the
incident served only to strengthen the Viceroy's aim of subjecting them to Britain. In the
case of the Jowakis we succeeded, though only after a campaign which proved to be costly in
men and money.

In fact, Lord Lytton was now convinced of the need of a radical change of frontier policy.
He summed up his contentions in the following phrases in his despatches of the early summer
of 1877:--"Shere Ali has irrevocably slipped out of our hands; . . . I conceive that it is
rather the disintegration and weakening, than the consolidation and establishment, of the Afghan
power at which we must now begin to aim." As for the mountain barrier, in which men of the
Lawrence school had been wont to trust, he termed it "a military mouse-trap," and he stated
that Napoleon I. had once for all shown the futility of relying on a mountain range that had
several passes[302]. These assertions show what perhaps were the weak points of Lord Lytton
in practical politics--an eager and impetuous disposition, too prone to be dazzled by the very
brilliance of the phrases which he coined.

[Footnote 302: Lady B. Balfour, op. cit. pp.166-185, 247-148.]

At the close of his despatch of April 8, 1878, to Lord Cranbrook (Lord Salisbury's successor
at the India Office) he sketched out, as "the best arrangement," a scheme for breaking up the
Cabul power and bringing about "the creation of a West Afghan Khanate, including Merv, Maimena,
Balkh, Candahar, and Herat, under some prince of our own selection, who would be dependent
on our support. With Western Afghanistan thus disposed of, and a small station our own, close
to our frontier in the Kurram valley, the destinies of Cabul itself would be to us a matter
of no importance[303]."

[Footnote 303: Ibid. pp. 246-247.]

This, then, was the new policy in its widest scope. Naturally it met with sharp opposition
from Lord Lawrence and others in the India Council at Whitehall. Besides involving a complete
change of front, it would naturally lead to war with the Ameer, and (if the intentions about
Merv were persisted in) with Russia as well. And for what purpose? In order that we might gain
an advanced frontier and break in pieces the one important State which remained as a buffer
between India and Russian Asia. In the eyes of all but the military men this policy stood self-condemned.
Its opponents pointed out that doubtless Russian intrigues were going on at Cabul; but they
were the result of the marked hostility between England and Russia in Europe, and a natural
retort to the sending of Indian troops to Malta. Besides, was it true that British influence
at Cabul was permanently lost? Might it not be restored by money and diplomacy? Or if these
means failed, could not affairs be so worked at Cabul as to bring about the deposition of the
Ameer in favour of some claimant who would support England? In any case, the extension of our
responsibilities to centres so remote as Balkh and Herat would overstrain the already burdened
finances of India, and impair her power of defence at vital points.

These objections seem to have had some weight at Whitehall, for by the month of August the
Viceroy somewhat lowered his tone; he gave up all hope of influencing Merv, and consented to
make another effort to win back the Ameer, or to seek to replace him by a more tractable prince.
But, failing this, he advised, though with reluctance on political grounds, the conquest and
occupation of so much of Afghan territory as would "be absolutely requisite for the permanent
maintenance of our North-West frontier[304]."

[Footnote 304: Lady B. Balfour, op. cit. p. 255. For a defence of this on military grounds
see Lord Roberts' Forty-One Years in India, vol. ii, p. 187; and Thorburn's Asiatic Neighbours,
chap. xiv.]

But by this time all hope of peace had become precarious. On June 13, the day of opening of
the Congress of Berlin, a Russian Mission, under General Stolieteff, left Samarcand for Cabul.
The Ameer is said to have heard this news with deep concern, and to have sought to prevent
it crossing the frontier. The Russians, however, refused to turn back, and entered Cabul on
July 22[305]. As will be seen by reference to Skobeleff's "Plan for the Invasion of India"
(Appendix II.), the Mission was to be backed up by columns of troops; and, with the aim of
redoubling the pressure of Russian diplomacy in Europe, the Minister for War at St. Petersburg
had issued orders on April 25, 1878, for the despatch of three columns of troops which were
to make a demonstration against India. The chief force, 12,000 strong, with 44 guns and a rocket
battery, was to march from Samarcand and Tashkend on Cabul; the second, consisting of only
1700 men, was to stir up the mountain tribes of the Chitral district to raid the north of the
Punjab; while the third, of the same strength, moved from the middle part of the Amu Daria
(Oxus) towards Merv and Herat. The main force set out from Tashkend on June 13, and after a
most trying march reached the Russo-Bokharan border, only to find that its toils were fruitless
owing to the signature of the Treaty of Berlin (July 13). The same disappointing news dispelled
the dreams of conquest which had nerved the other columns in their burning march.

[Footnote 305: Parl Papers, Afghanistan, No. 1 (1878), pp.242-243; ibid. Central Asia, No.
1, pp.165 et seq.]

Thus ended the scheme of invasion of India to which Skobeleff had lately given shape and body.
In January 1877, while in his Central Asian command, he had drawn up a detailed plan, the important
parts of which will be found in the Appendices of this volume. During the early spring of 1878,
when the Russian army lay at San Stefano, near Constantinople, he drew up another plan of the
same tenour. It seems certain that the general outline of these projects haunted the minds
of officers and men in the expeditions just referred to; for the columns withdrew northwards
most slowly and reluctantly[306].

[Footnote 306: For details see Russia's Advance towards India, by "an Indian Officer," vol.
ii. pp.109 et seq.]

A perusal of Skobeleff's plan will show that he relied also on a diplomatic Mission to Cabul
and on the despatch of the Afghan pretender, Abdur Rahman, from Samarcand to the Afghan frontier.
Both of these expedients were adopted in turn; the former achieved a startling but temporary
success.

As has been stated above, General Stolieteff's Mission entered Cabul on July 22. The chief
himself returned on August 24; but other members of his Mission remained several weeks longer.
There seem to be good grounds for believing that the Ameer, Shere Ali, signed a treaty with
Stolieteff; but as to its purport we have no other clue than the draft which purports to be
written out from memory by a secret agent of the Indian Government. Other Russian documents,
some of which Lord Granville afterwards described as containing "some very disagreeable passages
. . . written subsequently to the Treaty of Berlin," were found by Lord Roberts; and the Russian
Government found it difficult to give a satisfactory explanation of them[307].

[Footnote 307: The alleged treaty is printed, along with the other documents, in Parl. Papers,
Central Asia, No. 1 (1881), pp. 17-30. See also Lord Roberts' Forty-one Years in India, vol.
ii. p.477.]

In any case the Government of India could not stand by and witness the intrusion of Muscovite
influence into Afghanistan. Action, however, was very difficult owing to the alienation of
the Ameer. His resentment had now settled into lasting hatred. As a test question Lord Lytton
sought to impose on him the reception of a British Mission. On August 8 he received telegraphic
permission from London to make this demand. The Ameer, however, refused to allow a single British
officer to enter the country; and the death of his son and heir on August 17 enabled him to
decline to attend to affairs of State for a whole month.

His conduct in this matter was condoned by the champions of "masterly inactivity" in this country,
who proceeded to accuse the Viceroy of haste in sending forward the British Mission to the
frontier before the full time of mourning was over[308]. We now know, however, that this sympathy
was misplaced. Shere Ali's grief did not prevent him seeing officers of the Russian Mission
after his bereavement, and (as it seems) signing an alliance with the emissaries of the Czar.
Lord Lytton was better informed as to the state of things at Cabul than were his very numerous
critics, one of whom, under the shield of anonymity, confidently stated that the Russian Mission
to Cabul was either an affair of etiquette or a means of warding off a prospective attack from
India on Russian Turkestan; that the Ameer signed no treaty with the Mission, and was deeply
embarrassed by its presence; while Lord Lytton's treatment of the Ameer was discourteous[309].

[Footnote 308: Duke of Argyll, The Eastern Question, vol. ii. pp. 504-507.]

[Footnote 309: The Causes of the Afghan War, pp. 305 et seq.]

In the light of facts as now known, these charges are seen to be the outcome of a vivid imagination
or of partisan malice. There can be no doubt that Shere Ali had played us false. Apart from
his intrigues with Russia, he had condoned the murder of a British officer by keeping the murderer
in office, and had sought to push on the frontier tribes into a holy war. Finally, he sent
orders to stop the British Mission at Ali Musjid, the fort commanding the entrance to the Khyber
Pass. This action, which occurred on September 22, must be pronounced a deliberate insult,
seeing that the progress of that Mission had been so timed as that it should reach Cabul after
the days of mourning were over. In the Viceroy's view, the proper retort would have been a
declaration of war; but again the Home Government imposed caution, urging the despatch of an
ultimatum so as to give time for repentance at Cabul. It was sent on November 2, with the intimation
that if no answer reached the frontier by November 20, hostilities would begin. No answer came
until a later date, and then it proved to be of an evasive character.

Such, in brief outline, were the causes of the second Afghan War. In the fuller light of to-day
it is difficult to account for the passion which the discussion of them aroused at the time.
But the critics of the Government held strong ground at two points. They could show, first,
that the war resulted in the main from Lord Beaconsfield's persistent opposition to Russia
in the Eastern Question, also that the Muscovite intrigues at Cabul were a natural and very
effective retort to the showy and ineffective expedient of bringing Indian troops to Malta;
in short, that the Afghan War was due largely to Russia's desire for revenge.

Secondly, they fastened on what was undoubtedly a weak point in the Ministerial case, namely,
that Lord Beaconsfield's speech at the Lord Mayor's Banquet, on November 9, 1878, laid stress
almost solely on the need for acquiring a scientific frontier on the north-west of India. In
the parliamentary debate of December 9 he sought to rectify this mistake by stating that he
had never asserted that a new frontier was the object of the war, but rather a possible consequence.
His critics refused to accept the correction. They pinned him to his first words. If this were
so, they said, what need of recounting our complaints against Shere Ali? These were merely
the pretexts, not the causes, of a war which was to be waged solely in the cold-blooded quest
for a scientific frontier. Perish India, they cried, if her fancied interests required the
sacrifice of thousands of lives of brave hillmen on the altar of the new Imperialism.

These accusations were logically justifiable against Ministers who dwelt largely on that frigid
abstraction, the "scientific frontier," and laid less stress on the danger of leaving an ally
of Russia on the throne of Afghanistan. The strong point of Lord Lytton's case lay in the fact
that the policy of the Gladstone Ministry had led Shere Ali to side with Russia; but this fact
was inadequately explained, or, at least, not in such a way as to influence public opinion.
The popular fancy caught at the phrase "scientific frontier"; and for once Lord Beaconsfield's
cleverness in phrase-making conspired to bring about his overthrow.

But the logic of words does not correspond to the logic of facts. Words are for the most part
simple, downright, and absolute. The facts of history are very rarely so. Their importance
is very often relative, and is conditioned by changing circumstances. It was so with the events
that led up to the second Afghan War. They were very complex, and could not be summed up, or
disposed of, by reference to a single formula. Undoubtedly the question of the frontier was
important; but it did not become of supreme importance until, firstly, Shere Ali became our
enemy, and, secondly, showed unmistakable signs of having a close understanding with Russia.
Thenceforth it became a matter of vital import for India to have a frontier readibly defensible
against so strong a combination as that of Russia and Afghanistan.

It would be interesting to know what Mr. Gladstone and his supporters would have done if they
had come into power in the summer of 1878. That they blamed their opponents on many points
of detail does not prove that they would not have taken drastic means to get rid of Shere Ali.
In the unfortunate state into which affairs had drifted in 1878, how was that to be effected
without war?

[Footnote 310: Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 1 (1880), p. 171.]

Given the situation actually existing in 1878, the action of the British Government is justifiable
as regards details. The weak point of the Beaconsfield policy was this: that the situation
need not have existed. As far as can be judged from the evidence hitherto published (if we
except some wild talk on the part of Muscovite Chauvinists), Russia would not have interfered
in Afghanistan except in order to paralyse England's action in Turkish affairs. As has been
pointed out above, the Afghan trouble was a natural sequel to the opposition offered by Disraeli
to Russia from the time of the re-opening of the Balkan problem in 1875-76; and the consideration
of the events to be described in the following chapter will add one more to the many proofs
already existing as to the fatefulness of the blunder committed by him when he wrecked the
Berlin Memorandum, dissolved the Concert of the Powers, and rendered hopeless a peaceful solution
of the Eastern Question.

CHAPTER XIV

THE AFGHAN AND TURKOMAN CAMPAIGNS

     "The Forward Policy--in other words, the policy of
     endeavouring to extend our influence over, and establish law
     and order on, that part of the [Indian] Border, where
     anarchy, murder, and robbery up to the present time have
     reigned supreme, a policy which has been attended with the
     happiest results in Baluchistan and on the Gilgit
     frontier--is necessitated by the incontrovertible fact that a
     great Military Power is now within striking distance of our
     Indian possessions, and in immediate contact with a State for
     the integrity of which we have made ourselves
     responsible."--LORD ROBERTS: Speech in the House of Lords,
     March 7, 1898.

The operations at the outset of the Afghan War ended with so easy a triumph for the British
arms that it is needless to describe them in much detail. They were planned to proceed at three
points on the irregular arc of the south-eastern border of Afghanistan. The most northerly
column, that of General Sir Samuel Browne, had Peshawur as its base of supplies. Some 16,000
strong, it easily captured the fort of Ali Musjid at the mouth of the Khyber Pass, then threaded
that defile with little or no opposition, and pushed on to Jelalabad. Around that town (rendered
famous by General Sale's defence in 1841-2) it dealt out punishment to the raiding clans of
Afridis.

The column of the centre, acting from Kohat as a base against the Kurram Valley, was commanded
by a general destined to win renown in the later phases of the war. Major-General Roberts represented
all that was noblest and most chivalrous in the annals of the British Army in India. The second
son of General Sir Abraham Roberts, G.C.B., and born at Cawnpore in 1832, he inherited the
traditions of the service which he was to render still more illustrious. His frame, short and
slight, seemed scarcely to fit him for warlike pursuits; and in ages when great stature and
sturdy sinews were alone held in repute, he might have been relegated to civil life; but the
careers of William III., Luxemburg, Nelson, and Roberts show that wiriness is more essential
to a commander than animal strength, and that mind rather than muscle determines the course
of campaigns. That the young aspirant for fame was not deficient in personal prowess appeared
at Khudaganj, one of the battles of the Mutiny, when he captured a standard from two sepoys,
and, later on the same day, cut down a third sepoy. But it was his clear insight into men and
affairs, his hold on the principles of war, his alertness of mind, and his organising power,
that raised him above the crowd of meritorious officers who saved India for Britain in those
stormy days.

His achievements as Deputy Assistant Quartermaster-General at Delhi and elsewhere at that time
need not be referred to here; for he himself has related them in clear, life-like, homely terms
which reveal one of the sources of his personal influence. Englishmen admire a man who is active
without being fussy, who combines greatness with simplicity, whose kindliness is as devoid
of ostentation as his religion is of mawkishness, and with whom ambition is ever the handmaid
of patriotism. The character of a commander perhaps counts for more with British troops than
with any others, except the French; and the men who marched with Roberts from Cabul to Candahar,
and from Paardeberg to Bloemfontein, could scarcely have carried out those feats of endurance
for a general who did not possess both their trust and their love.

The devotion of the Kurram column to its chief was soon put to the test. After advancing up
that valley, girt on both sides with lofty mountains and scored with numerous gulleys, the
force descried the Peiwar Kotal Pass at its head--a precipitous slope furrowed only in one
place where a narrow zigzag path ran upwards through pines and giant boulders. A reconnaissance
proved that the Afghans held the upper part in force; and for some time Roberts felt the gravest
misgivings. Hiding these feelings, especially from his native troops, he spent a few days in
reconnoitring this formidable position. These efforts resulted in the discovery by Major Collett
of another practicable gorge further to the north leading up to a neighbouring height, the
Peiwar Spingawi, whence the head of the Kotal might possibly be turned.

To divide a column, comprising only 889 British and 2415 native troops, and that too in face
of the superior numbers of the enemy, was a risky enterprise, but General Roberts determined
to try the effect of a night march up to the Spingawi. He hoped by an attack at dawn on the
Afghan detachment posted there, to turn the main position on the Kotal, and bring about its
evacuation. This plan had often succeeded against Afghans. Their characteristics both in peace
and war are distinctly feline. Prone to ease and enjoyment at ordinary times, yet, when stirred
by lust of blood or booty, they are capable of great feats of swift fierce onset; but, like
all men and animals dominated by sudden impulses, their bravery is fitful, and is apt to give
way under persistent attack, or when their rear is threatened. The cat-like, stalking instinct
has something of strategic caution, even in its wildest moods; it likes to be sure of the line
of retreat[311].

[Footnote 311: General [Sir] J.L. Vaughan, in a Lecture on "Afghanistan and the Military Operations
therein" (December 6, 1878), said of the Afghans: "When resolutely attacked they rarely hold
their ground with any tenacity, and are always anxious about their rear."]

The British commander counted on exploiting these peculiarities to the full by stalking the
enemy on their left flank, while he left about 1000 men to attack them once more in front.
Setting out at nightfall of December 1, he led the remainder northwards through a side valley,
and then up a gully on the side of the Spingawi. The ascent through pine woods and rocks, in
the teeth of an icy wind, was most trying; and the movement came near to failure owing to the
treachery of two Pathan soldiers in the ranks, who fired off their rifles in the hope of warning
the Afghans above them. The reports, it afterwards transpired, were heard by a sentry, who
reported the matter to the commander of the Afghan detachment; he, for his part, did nothing.
Much alarm was felt in the British column when the shots rang out in the darkness; a native
officer hard by came up at once, and, by smelling the rifles of all his men, found out the
offenders; but as they were Mohammedans, he said nothing, in the hope of screening his co-religionists.
Later on, these facts transpired at a court-martial, whereupon the elder of the two offenders,
who was also the first to fire, was condemned to death, and the younger to a long term of imprisonment.
The defaulting officer likewise received due punishment[312].

[Footnote 312: Lord Roberts, Forty-One Years in India, vol. ii. p. 130 et seq.; Major J.A.S.
Colquhoun, With the Kurram Field Force, 1878-79, pp. 101-102.]

After this alarming incident, the 72nd Highlanders were sent forward to take the place of the
native regiment previously leading; and once more the little column struggled on through the
darkness up the rocky path. Their staunchness met its reward. At dawn the Highlanders and 5th
Gurkhas charged the Afghan detachment in its entrenchments and breastworks of trees, and were
soon masters of the Spingawi position. A long and anxious time of waiting now ensued, caused
by the failure of the first frontal attack on the Kotal; but Roberts' pressure on the flank
of the main Afghan position and another frontal attack sent the enemy flying in utter rout,
leaving behind guns and waggons. The Kurram column had driven eight Afghan regiments and numbers
of hillmen from a seemingly impregnable position, and now held the second of the outer passes
leading towards Cabul (December 2, 1878). The Afghans offered but slight resistance at the
Shutargardan Pass further on, and from that point the invaders looked down on valleys that
conducted them easily to the Ameer's capital[313].

[Footnote 313: Lord Roberts, op. cit., vol. ii. pp. 135-149; S.H. Shadbolt, The Afghan Campaigns
of 1878-80, vol. i. pp. 21-25 (with plan).]

Meanwhile equal success was attending the 3rd British column, that of General Biddulph, which
operated from Quetta. It occupied Sibi and the Khojak Pass; and on January 8, 1879, General
Stewart and the vanguard reached Candahar, which they entered in triumph. The people seemed
to regard their entry with indifference. This was but natural. Shere Ali had ruined his own
cause. Hearing of the first defeats he fled from Cabul in company with the remaining members
of the Russian Mission still at that city (December 13), and made for Afghan Turkestan in the
hope of inducing his northern allies to give active aid.

He now discovered his error. The Czar's Government had been most active in making mischief
between England and the Ameer, especially while the diplomatic struggle was going on at Berlin;
but after the signature of the Treaty of Berlin (July 13, 1878), the natural leaning of Alexander
II. towards peace and quietness began by degrees to assert itself. The warlike designs of Kaufmann
and his officials in Turkestan received a check, though not so promptly as was consistent with
strict neutrality.

Gradually the veil fell from the ex-Ameer's eyes. On the day of his flight (December 13), he
wrote to the "Officers of the British Government," stating that he was about to proceed to
St. Petersburg, "where, before a Congress, the whole history of the transactions between myself
and yourselves will be submitted to all the Powers[314]." But nine days later he published
a firman containing a very remarkable letter purporting to come from General Stolieteff at
Livadia in the Crimea, where he was staying with the Czar. After telling him that the British
desired to come to terms with him (the Ameer) through the intervention of the Sultan, the letter
proceeded as follows:--

     But the Emperor's desire is that you should not admit the
     English into your country, and like last year, you are to
     treat them with deceit and deception until the present cold
     season passes away. Then the Almighty's will will be made
     manifest to you, that is to say, the [Russian] Government
     having repeated the Bismillah, the Bismillah will come to
     your assistance. In short you are to rest assured that
     matters will end well. If God permits, we will convene a
     Government meeting at St. Petersburg, that is to say, a
     Congress, which means an assemblage of Powers. We will then
     open an official discussion with the English Government, and
     either by force of words and diplomatic action we will
     entirely cut off all English communications and interference
     with Afghanistan, or else events will end in a mighty and
     important war. By the help of God, by spring not a symptom or
     a vestige of trouble and dissatisfaction will remain in
     Afghanistan.

[Footnote 314: Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 7, (1879), p. 9. He also states on p. 172 that
the advice of the Afghan officials who accompanied Shere Ali in his flight was (even in April-May
1879) favourable to a Russian alliance, and that they advised Yakub in this sense. See Kaufmann's
letters to Yakub, in Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 9 (1879).]

It is impossible to think that the Czar had any knowledge of this treacherous epistle, which,
it is to be hoped, originated with the lowest of Russian agents, or emanated from some Afghan
chief in their pay. Nevertheless the fact that Shere Ali published it shows that he hoped for
Russian help, even when the British held the keys of his country in their hands. But one hope
after another faded away, and in his last days he must have come to see that he had been merely
the catspaw of the Russian bear. He died on February 21, 1879, hard by the city of Bactra,
the modern Balkh.

That "mother of cities" has seen strange vicissitudes. It nourished the Zoroastrian and Buddhist
creeds in their youth; from its crowded monasteries there shone forth light to the teeming
millions of Asia, until culture was stamped out under the heel of Genghis Khan, and later,
of Timur. In a still later day it saw the dawning greatness of that most brilliant but ill-starred
of the Mogul Emperors, Aurungzebe. Its fallen temples and convents, stretching over many a
mile, proclaim it to be the city of buried hopes. There was, then, something fitting in the
place of Shere Ali's death. He might so readily have built up a powerful Afghan State in friendly
union with the British Raj; he chose otherwise, and ended his life amidst the wreckage of his
plans and the ruin of his kingdom. This result of the trust which he had reposed in Muscovite
promises was not lost on the Afghan people and their rulers.

There is no need to detail the events of the first half of the year 1879 in Afghanistan. On
the assembly of Parliament in February, Lord Beaconsfield declared that our objects had been
attained in that land now that the three chief mountain highways between Afghanistan and India
were completely in our power. It remained to find a responsible ruler with whom a lasting peace
could be signed. Many difficulties were in the way owing to the clannish feuds of the Afghans
and the number of possible claimants for the crown. Two men stood forth as the most likely
rulers, Shere Ali's rebellious son, Yakub Khan, who had lately been released from his long
confinement, and Abdur Rahman, son of Ufzal Khan, who was still kept by the Russians in Turkestan
under some measure of constraint, doubtless in the hope that he would be a serviceable trump
card in the intricate play of rival interests certain to ensue at Cabul.

About February 20, Yakub sent overtures for peace to the British Government; and, as the death
of his father at that time greatly strengthened his claim, it was favourably considered at
London and Calcutta. Despite one act at least of flagrant treachery, he was recognised as Ameer.
On May 8 he entered the British camp at Gandarnak, near Jelalabad; and after negotiations,
a treaty was signed there, May 26. It provided for an amnesty, the control of the Ameer's foreign
policy by the British Government, the establishment of a British Resident at Cabul, the construction
of a telegraph line to that city, the grant of commercial facilities, and the cession to India
of the frontier districts of Kurram, Pishin, and Sibi (the latter two are near Quetta). The
British Government retained control over the Khyber and Michnee Passes and over the neighbouring
tribes (which had never definitely acknowledged Afghan rule). It further agreed to pay to the
Ameer and his successors a yearly subsidy of six lakhs of rupees (nearly £50,000)[315].

[Footnote 315: Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 7 (1879), p. 23; Roberts, op. cit. pp. 170-173.]

General Roberts and many others feared that the treaty had been signed too hastily, and that
the Afghans, "an essentially arrogant and conceited people," needed a severer lesson before
they acquiesced in British suzerainty. But no sense of foreboding depressed Major Sir Louis
Cavagnari, the gallant and able officer who had carried out so much of the work on the frontier,
when he proceeded to take up his abode at Cabul as British Resident (July 24). The chief danger
lay in the Afghan troops, particularly the regiments previously garrisoned at Herat, who knew
little or nothing of British prowess, and whose fanaticism was inflamed by arrears of pay.
Cavagnari's Journal kept at Cabul ended on August 19 with the statement that thirty-three Russians
were coming up the Oxus to the Afghan frontier. But the real disturbing cause seems to have
been the hatred of the Afghan troops to foreigners.

Failure to pay was so usual a circumstance in Afghanistan as scarcely to account for the events
that ensued. Yet it furnished the excuse for an outbreak. Early on September 3, when assembled
for what proved to be the farce of payment at Bala Hissar (the citadel), three regiments mutinied,
stoned their officers, and then rushed towards the British Embassy. These regiments took part
in the first onset against an unfortified building held by the Mission and a small escort.
A steady musketry fire from the defenders long held them at bay; but, when joined by townsfolk
and other troops, the mutineers set fire to the gates, and then, bursting in, overpowered the
gallant garrison. The Ameer made only slight efforts to quell this treacherous outbreak, and,
while defending his own palaces by faithful troops, sent none to help the envoy. These facts,
as reported by trustworthy witnesses, did not correspond to the magniloquent assurances of
fidelity that came from Yakub himself[316].

[Footnote 316: Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 1 (1880), pp. 32-42, 89-96.]

Arrangements were at once made to retrieve this disaster, but staff and transport arrangements
caused serious delay. At length General Roberts was able to advance up the Kurram Valley and
carry the Shutargardan Pass by storm, an exploit fully equal to his former capture of the Peiwar
Kotal in the same mountain range. Somewhat further on he met the Ameer, and was unfavourably
impressed with him: "An insignificant-looking man, . . . with a receding forehead, a conical-shaped
head, and no chin to speak of, . . . possessed moreover of a very shifty eye." Yakub justified
this opinion by seeking on various pretexts to delay the British advance, and by sending to
Cabul news as to the numbers of the British force.

All told it numbered only 4000 fighting men with 18 cannon. Nevertheless, on nearing Cabul,
it assailed a strong position at Charasia, held by 13 regular regiments of the enemy and some
10,000 irregulars. The charges of Highlanders (the 72nd and 92nd), Gurkhas, and Punjabis proved
to be irresistible, and drove the Afghans from two ridges in succession. This feat of arms,
which bordered on the miraculous, served to reveal the feelings of the Ameer in a manner equally
ludicrous and sinister. Sitting in the British camp, he watched the fight with great eagerness,
then with growing concern, until he finally needed all his oriental composure for the final
compliment which he bestowed on the victor. Later on it transpired that he and his adherents
had laid careful plans for profiting by the defeat of the venturesome little force, so as to
ensure its annihilation[317].

[Footnote 317: Roberts, op. cit. vol. ii. pp. 213-224; Hensman, The Afghan War of 1878-1880.]

The brilliant affair at Charasia served to bring out the conspicuous gallantry of two men,
who were later on to win distinction in wider fields, Major White and Colour-Sergeant Hector
Macdonald. White carried a ridge at the head of a body of 50 Highlanders. When the enemy fled
to a second ridge, he resolved to spare the lives of his men by taking a rifle and stalking
the enemy alone, until he suddenly appeared on their flank. Believing that his men were at
his back, the Afghans turned and fled.

On October 9 Roberts occupied the Siah Sang ridge, overlooking Cabul, and on the next day entered
the citadel, Bala Hissar, to inspect the charred and blood-stained ruins of the British Embassy.
In the embers of a fire he and his staff found numbers of human bones. On October 12 Yakub
came to the General to announce his intention of resigning the Ameership, as "he would rather
be a grass-cutter in the English camp than ruler of Afghanistan." On the next day the British
force entered the city itself in triumph, and Roberts put the Ameer's Ministers under arrest.
The citizens were silent but respectful, and manifested their satisfaction when he proclaimed
that only those guilty of the treacherous attack on the Residency would be punished. Cabul
itself was much more Russian than English. The Afghan officers wore Russian uniforms, Russian
goods were sold in the bazaars, and Russian money was found in the Treasury. It is evident
that the Czar's officials had long been pushing on their designs, and that further persistency
on the part of England in the antiquated policy of "masterly inactivity" would have led to
Afghanistan becoming a Muscovite satrapy.

The pendulum now swung sharply in favour of India. To that land Roberts despatched the ex-Ameer
on December 1, on the finding of the Commission that he had been guilty of criminal negligence
(if not worse) at the time of the massacre of Cavagnari and his escort. Two Afghan Sirdars,
whose guilt respecting that tragedy had been clearly proven, were also deported and imprisoned.
This caused much commotion, and towards the close of the year the preaching of a fanatic, whose
name denoted "fragrance of the universe," stirred up hatred to the conquerors.

Bands of tribesmen began to cluster around Cabul, and an endeavour to disperse them led to
a temporary British reverse not far from the Sherpur cantonments where Roberts held his troops.
The situation was serious. As generally happens with Asiatics, the hillmen rose by thousands
at the news, and beset the line of communications with India. Sir Frederick Roberts, however,
staunchly held his ground at the Sherpur camp, beating off one very serious attack of the tribesmen
on December 20-23. On the next day General Gough succeeded in breaking through from Gandamak
to his relief. Other troops were hurried up from India, and this news ended the anxiety which
had throbbed through the Empire at the news of Roberts being surrounded near Cabul.

Now that the league of hillmen had been for the time broken up, it became more than ever necessary
to find a ruler for Afghanistan, and settle affairs with all speed. This was also desirable
in view of the probability of a general election in the United Kingdom in the early part of
the year 1880, the Ministry wishing to have ready an Afghan settlement to act as a soporific
drug on the ravening Cerberus of democracy at home. Unhappily, the outbreak of the Zulu War
on January 11, 1880, speedily followed by the disaster of Isandlana, redoubled the complaints
in the United Kingdom, with the result that matters were more than ever pressed on in Afghanistan.

Some of the tribes clamoured for the return of Yakub, only to be informed by General Roberts
that such a step would never be allowed. In the midst of this uncertainty, when the hour for
the advent of a strong man seemed to have struck, he opportunely appeared. Strange to say,
he came from Russian Turkestan.

As has been stated above, Abdur Rahman, son of Ufzal Khan, had long lived there as a pensioner
of the Czar; his bravery and skill in intrigue had been well known. The Russian writer, Petrovsky,
described him as longing, above all things, to get square with the English and Shere Ali. It
was doubtless with this belief in the exile's aims that the Russians gave him £2500 and 200
rifles. His advent in Afghanistan seemed well calculated to add to the confusion there and
to the difficulties of England. With only 100 followers he forded the Oxus and, early in 1880,
began to gather around him a band in Afghan Turkestan. His success was startlingly rapid, and
by the end of March he was master of all that district[318].

[Footnote 318: See his adventures in The Life of Abdur Rahman, by Sultan Mohammed Khan, vol.
ii, chaps, v., vi. He gave out that he came to expel the English (pp. 173-175).]

But the political results of this first success were still more surprising. Lord Lytton, Sir
Frederick Roberts, and Mr. Lepel Griffin (political commissioner in Afghanistan) soon saw the
advantage of treating with him for his succession to the throne of Cabul. The Viceroy, however,
true to his earlier resolve to break up Afghanistan, added the unpleasant condition that the
districts of Candahar and Herat must now be severed from the north of Afghanistan. Abdur Rahman's
first request that the whole land should form a neutral State under the joint protection of
Great Britain and Russia was decisively negatived on the ground that the former Power stood
pledged by the Treaty of Gandamak not to allow the intervention of any foreign State in Afghan
affairs. A strong man like Abdur Rahman appreciated the decisiveness of this statement; and,
while holding back his hand with the caution and suspicion natural to Afghans, he thenceforth
leant more to the British side, despite the fact that Lord Lytton had recognised a second Shere
Ali as "Wali," or Governor of Candahar and its district[319]. On April 19, Sir Donald Stewart
routed a large Afghan force near Ghaznee, and thereafter occupied that town. He reached Cabul
on May 5. It appeared that the resistance of the natives was broken.

[Footnote 319: Roberts, op. cit. vol. ii. pp. 315-323.]

Such was the state of affairs when the General Election of April 1880 installed Mr. Gladstone
in power in place of Lord Beaconsfield. As has been hinted above, Afghan affairs had helped
to bring about this change; and the world now waited to see what would be the action of the
party which had fulminated against the "forward policy" in India. As is usually the case after
ministerial changes, the new Prime Minister disappointed the hopes of his most ardent friends
and the fears of his bitterest opponents. The policy of "scuttle" was, of course, never thought
of; but, as the new Government stood pledged to limit its responsibilities in India as far
as possible, one great change took place. Lord Lytton laid down his Viceroyalty when the full
results of the General Election manifested themselves; and the world saw the strange sight
of a brilliant and powerful ruler, who took precedence of ancient dynasties in India, retiring
into private life at the bidding of votes silently cast in ballot-boxes far away in islands
of the north.

No more startling result of the working of the democratic system has ever been seen in Imperial
affairs; and it may lead the student of Roman History to speculate what might have been the
results in that ancient Empire if the populace of Italy could honestly have discharged the
like duties with regard to the action of their proconsuls. Roman policy might have lacked some
of its stateliness and solidity, but assuredly the government of the provinces would have improved.
Whatever may be said as to the evils of change brought about by popular caprice, they are less
serious than those which grow up under the shadow of an uncriticised and irresponsible bureaucracy.

Some time elapsed before the new Viceroy, Lord Ripon, could take up the reins of power. In
that interval difficulties had arisen with Abdur Rahman, but on July 20 the British authorities
at Cabul publicly recognised him as Ameer of Northern Afghanistan. The question as to the severance
of Candahar from Cabul, and the amount of the subsidy to be paid to the new ruler, were left
open and caused some difference of opinion; but a friendly arrangement was practically assured
a few days later.

For many reasons this was desirable. As far back as April 11, 1880, Mr. (now Sir) Lepel Griffin
had announced in a Durbar at Cabul that the British forces would withdraw from Afghanistan
when the Government considered that a satisfactory settlement had been made; that it was the
friend, not the enemy, of Islam, and would keep the sword for its enemies. The time had now
come to make good these statements. In the closing days of July Abdur Rahman was duly installed
in power at Cabul, and received 19-1/2 lakhs of rupees (£190,500)[320]. Meanwhile his champions
prepared to evacuate that city and to avenge a disaster which had overtaken their arms in the
Province of Candahar. On July 29 news arrived that a British brigade had been cut to pieces
at Maiwand.

[Footnote 320: The Life of Abdur Rahman, vol. ii. pp. 197-98. For these negotiations and the
final recognition, see Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 1 (1881), pp. 16-51.]

The fact that we supported the Sirdar named Shere Ali at Candahar seemed to blight his authority
over the tribesmen in that quarter. All hope of maintaining his rule vanished when tidings
arrived that Ayub Khan, a younger brother of the deported Yakub, was marching from the side
of Herat to claim the crown. Already the new pretender had gained the support of several Afghan
chiefs around Herat, and now proclaimed a jehad, or holy war, against the infidels holding
Cabul. With a force of 7500 men and 10 guns he left Herat on June 15, and moved towards the
River Helmand, gathering around him numbers of tribesmen and ghazis[321].

[Footnote 321: "A ghazi is a man who, purely for the sake of his religion, kills an unbeliever,
Kaffir, Sikh, Hindu, Buddhist, or Christian, in the belief that in so doing he gains a sure
title to Paradise" (R.I. Bruce, The Forward Policy, p. 245).]

In order to break this gathering cloud of war betimes, the Indian Government ordered General
Primrose, who commanded the British garrison at Candahar, to despatch a brigade to the Helmand.
Accordingly, Brigadier-General Burrows, with 2300 British and Indian troops, marched out from
Candahar on July 11. On the other side of the Helmand lay an Afghan force, acting in the British
interest, sent thither by the Sirdar, Shere Ali. Two days later the whole native force mutinied
and marched off towards Ayub Khan. Burrows promptly pursued them, captured their six guns,
and scattered the mutineers with loss.

Even so his position was most serious. In front of him, at no great distance, was a far superior
force flushed with fanaticism and the hope of easy triumph; the River Helmand offered little,
if any, protection, for at that season it was everywhere fordable; behind him stretched twenty-five
miles of burning desert. By a speedy retreat across this arid zone to Khushk-i-Nakhud, Burrows
averted the disaster then imminent, but his anxiety to carry out the telegraphic orders of
the Commander-in-chief, and to prevent Ayub's force from reaching Ghaznee, led him into an
enterprise which proved to be far beyond his strength.

Hearing that 2000 of the enemy's horsemen and a large number of ghazis had hurried forward
in advance of the main body to Maiwand, he determined to attack them there. At 6.30 A.M. on
July 27 he struck camp and moved forwards with his little force of 2599 fighting men. Daring
has wrought wonders in Indian warfare, but rarely has any British commander undertaken so dangerous
a task as that to which Burrows set his hand on that morning.

During his march he heard news from a spy that the Afghan main body was about to join their
vanguard; but, either because he distrusted the news, or hoped even at the last to "pluck the
flower, safety, out of the nettle, danger," he pushed on and sought to cut through the line
of the enemy's advance as it made for Maiwand. About 10 A.M. his column passed the village
of Khig and, crossing a dried watercourse, entered a parched plain whereon the fringe of the
enemy's force could dimly be seen through the thick and sultry air. Believing that he had to
deal with no large body of men, Burrows pushed on, and two of Lieutenant Maclaine's guns began
to shell their scattered groups. Like wasps roused to fury, the ghazis rushed together as if
for a charge, and lines of Afghan regulars came into view. The deceitful haze yielded up its
secret. Burrows' brigade stood face to face with 15,000 Afghans. Moreover some influence, baleful
to England, kept back those Asiatics from their usually heedless rush. Their guns came up and
opened fire on Burrows' line. Even the white quivering groups of their ghazis forebore to charge
with their whetted knives, but clung to a gully which afforded good cover 500 yards away from
the British front and right flank; there the Afghan regulars galled the exposed khaki line,
while their cannon, now numbering thirty pieces, kept up a fire to which Maclaine's twelve
guns could give no adequate reply.

It has been stated by military critics that Burrows erred in letting the fight at the outset
become an affair of artillery, in which he was plainly the weaker. Some of his guns were put
out of action; and in that open plain there was no cover for the fighting line, the reserves,
or the supporting horse. All of them sustained heavy losses from the unusually accurate aim
of the Afghan gunners. But the enemy had also suffered under our cannonade and musketry; and
it is consonant with the traditions of Indian warfare to suppose that a charge firmly pushed
home at the first signs of wavering in the hostile mass would have retrieved the day. Plassey
and Assaye were won by sheer boldness. Such a chance is said to have occurred about noon at
Maiwand. However that may be, Burrows decided to remain on the defensive, perhaps because the
hostile masses were too dense and too full of fight to warrant the adoption of dashing tactics.

After the sun passed his zenith the enemy began to press on the front and flanks. Burrows swung
round his wings to meet these threatening moves; but, as the feline and predatory instincts
of the Afghans kindled more and more at the sight of the weak, bent, and stationary line, so
too the morale of the defenders fell. The British and Indian troops alike were exhausted by
the long march and by the torments of thirst in the sultry heat. Under the fire of the Afghan
cannon and the frontal and flank advance of the enemy, the line began to waver about 2 P.M.,
and two of the foremost guns were lost. A native regiment in the centre, Jacob's Rifles, fled
in utter confusion and spread disorder on the flanks, where the 1st Bombay Grenadiers and the
66th line regiment had long maintained a desperate fight. General Nuttall now ordered several
squadrons of the 3rd Light Cavalry and 3rd Sind Horse to recover the guns and stay the onrushing
tide, but their numbers were too small for the task, and the charge was not pressed home. Finally
the whole mass of pursued and pursuers rolled towards the village of Khig and its outlying
enclosures.

There a final stand was made. Colonel Galbraith and about one hundred officers and men of the
66th threw themselves into a garden enclosure, plied the enemy fiercely with bullets, and time
after time beat back every rush of the ghazis, now rioting in that carnival of death. Surrounded
by the flood of the Afghan advance, the little band fought on, hopeless of life, but determined
to uphold to the last the honour of their flag and country. At last only eleven were left.
These heroes determined to die in the open; charging out on the masses around, they formed
square, and back to back stood firing on the foe. Not until the last of them fell under the
Afghan rifles did the ghazis venture to close in with their knives, so dauntless had been the
bearing of this band[322].

[Footnote 322: Report of General Primrose in Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 3 (1880), p. 156.]

They had not fought in vain. Their stubborn stand held back the Afghan pursuit and gave time
for the fugitives to come together on the way back to Candahar. Had the pursuit been pushed
on with vigour few, if any, could have survived. Even so, Maiwand was one of the gravest disasters
ever sustained by our Indian army. It cost Burrows' force nearly half its numbers; 934 officers
and men were killed and 175 wounded. The strange disproportion between these totals may serve
as a measure of the ferocity of Afghans in the hour of victory. Of the non-combatants 790 fell
under the knives of the ghazis. The remnant struggled towards Candahar, whence, on the 28th,
General Primrose despatched a column to the aid of the exhausted survivors. In the citadel
of that fortress there mustered as many as 4360 effectives as night fell. But what were these
in face of Ayub's victorious army, now joined by tribesmen eager for revenge and plunder[323]?

[Footnote 323: S.H. Shadbolt, The Afghan Campaigns of 1878-80, pp. 96-100. Parl. Papers, Afghanistan,
No. 2 (1880), p. 21; No. 3, pp. 103-5; Lord Roberts, op. cit. vol. ii. pp. 333-5; Hensman,
op. cit. pp. 553-4.]

In face of this disaster, the British generals in Northern Afghanistan formed a decision commendable
alike for its boldness and its sagacity. They decided to despatch at once all available troops
from Cabul to the relief of the beleaguered garrison at Candahar. General Sir Frederick Roberts
had handed over the command at Cabul to Sir Donald Stewart, and was about to operate among
the tribes on the Afghan frontier when the news of the disaster sent him hurrying back to confer
with the new commander-in-chief. Together they recommended the plan named above.

It involved grave dangers: for affairs in the north of Afghanistan were unsettled; and to withdraw
the rest of our force from Cabul to the Khyber would give the rein to local disaffection. The
Indian authorities at Simla inclined to the despatch of the force at Quetta, comprising seven
regiments of native troops, from Bombay. The route was certainly far easier; for, thanks to
the toil of engineers, the railway from the Indus Valley towards Quetta had been completed
up to a point in advance of Sibi; and the labours of Major Sandeman, Bruce, and others, had
kept that district fairly quiet[324]. But the troops at Quetta and Pishin were held to be incapable
of facing a superior force of victorious Afghans. At Cabul there were nine regiments of infantry,
three of cavalry, and three mountain-batteries, all of them British or picked Indian troops.
On August 3, Lord Ripon telegraphed his permission for the despatch of the Cabul field-force
to Candahar. It amounted to 2835 British (the 72nd and 92nd Highlanders and 2nd battalion of
the 60th Rifles, and 9th Lancers), 7151 Indian troops, together with 18 guns. On August 9 it
struck camp and set out on a march which was destined to be famous.

[Footnote 324: Colonel Sandeman: His Life and Work on our Indian Frontier, by T.H. Thornton;
R.I. Bruce, The Forward Policy and its Results (1900), chaps. iv. v.; Candahar in 1879; being
the Diary of Major Le Mesurier, R.E. (1880). The last had reported in 1879 that the fortifications
of Candahar were weak and the citadel in bad repair.]

Fortunately before it left the Cabul camp on August 9, matters were skilfully arranged by Mr.
Griffin with Abdur Rahman, on terms which will be noticed presently. In spite of one or two
suspicious incidents, his loyalty to the British cause now seemed to be assured, and that,
too, in spite of the remonstrances of many of his supporters. He therefore sent forward messengers
to prepare the way for Roberts' force. They did so by telling the tribesmen that the new Ameer
was sending the foreign army out of the land by way of Candahar! This pleasing fiction in some
measure helped on the progress of the force, and the issue of events proved it to be no very
great travesty of the truth.

Every possible device was needed to ensure triumph over physical obstacles. In order to expedite
the march through the difficult country between Cabul and Candahar, no wheeled guns or waggons
went with the force. As many as 8000 native bearers or drivers set out with the force, but
very many of them deserted, and the 8255 horses, mules and donkeys were thenceforth driven
by men told off from the regiments. The line of march led at first through the fertile valley
of the River Logar, where the troops and followers were able to reap the ripening crops and
subsist in comfort. Money was paid for the crops thus appropriated. After leaving this fertile
district for the barren uplands, the question of food and fuel became very serious; but it
was overcome by ingenuity and patience, though occasional times of privation had to be faced,
as, for instance, when only very small roots were found for the cooking of corn and meat. A
lofty range, the Zamburak Kotal, was crossed with great toil and amidst biting cold at night-time;
but the ability of the commander, the forethought and organising power of his Staff, and the
hardihood of the men overcame all trials and obstacles.

The army then reached the more fertile districts around Ghazni, and on August 15 gained an
entry without resistance to that once formidable stronghold. Steady marching brought the force
eight days later to the hill fort of Kelat-i-Ghilzai, where it received a hearty welcome from
the British garrison of 900 men. Sir Frederick Roberts determined to take on these troops with
him, as he needed all his strength to cope with the growing power of Yakub. After a day's rest
(well earned, seeing that the force had traversed 225 miles in 14 days), the column set forth
on its last stages, cheered by the thought of rescuing their comrades at Candahar, but more
and more oppressed by the heat, which, in the lower districts of South Afghanistan, is as fierce
as anywhere in the world. Mr. Hensman, the war correspondent of the Daily News, summed up in
one telling phrase the chief difficulties of the troops. "The sun laughed to scorn 100° F.
in the shade." On the 27th the commander fell with a sharp attack of fever.

Nevertheless he instructed the Indian cavalry to push on to Robat and open up heliographic
communication with Candahar. It then transpired that the approach of the column had already
changed the situation. Already, on August 23, Ayub had raised the siege and retired to the
hills north of the city. That relief came none too soon appeared on the morning of the 31st,
when the thin and feeble cheering that greeted the rescuers on their entrance to the long beleaguered
town told its sad tale of want, disease, and depression of heart. The men who had marched 313
miles in 22 days--an average of 14-1/4 miles a day--felt a thrill of sympathy, not unmixed
with disgust in some cases, at the want of spirit too plainly discernible among the defenders.
The Union Jack was not hoisted on the citadel until the rescuers were near at hand[325]. General
Roberts might have applied to them Hecuba's words to Priam:--

     Non tali auxilio, nec defensoribus istis
     Tempus eget.

As for the morale of the relieving force, it now stood at the zenith, as was seen on the following
day. Framing his measures so as to encourage Ayub to stand his ground, Roberts planned his
attack in the way that had already led to success, namely, a frontal attack more imposing than
serious, while the enemy's flank was turned and his communications threatened. These moves
were carried out by Generals Ross and Baker with great skill. Under the persistent pressure
of the British onset the Afghans fell back from position to position, north-west of Candahar;
until finally Major White with the 92nd, supported by Gurkhas and the 23rd Pioneers, drove
them back to their last ridge, the Baba Wali Kotal, swarmed up its western flank, and threw
the whole of the hostile mass in utter confusion into the plain beyond. Owing to the very broken
nature of the ground, few British and Indian horsemen were at hand to reap the full fruits
of victory; but many of Ayub's regulars and ghazis fell under their avenging sabres. The beaten
force deserved no mercy. When the British triumph was assured, the Afghan chief ordered his
prisoner, Lieutenant Maclaine, to be butchered; whereupon he himself and his suite took to
flight. The whole of his artillery, twenty-seven pieces, including the two British guns lost
at Maiwand, fell into the victor's hands. In fact, Ayub's force ceased to exist; many of his
troops at once assumed the garb of peaceful cultivators, and the Pretender himself fled to
Herat[326].

[Footnote 325: Roberts, op. cit. vol. ii. p. 357.]

[Footnote 326: Parl. Papers, Afghanistan, No. 3 (1880), p. 82. Hensman, The Afghan War; Shadbolt,
op. cit. pp. 108-110. The last reckons Ayub's force at 12,800, of whom 1200 were slain.]

Thus ended an enterprise which, but for the exercise of the highest qualities on the part of
General Roberts, his Staff, the officers, and rank and file, might easily have ended in irretrievable
disaster. This will appear from the following considerations. The question of food and water
during a prolonged march in that parched season of the year might have caused the gravest difficulties;
but they were solved by a wise choice of route along or near water-courses where water could
generally be procured. The few days when little or no water could be had showed what might
have happened. Further, the help assured by the action of the Ameer's emissaries among the
tribesmen was of little avail after the valley of the Logar was left behind. Many of the tribes
were actively hostile, and cut off stragglers and baggage-animals.

Above and beyond these daily difficulties, there was the problem as to the line of retreat
to be taken in case of a reverse inflicted by the tribes en route. The army had given up its
base of operations; for at the same time the remaining British and Indian regiments at Cabul
were withdrawn to the Khyber Pass. True, there was General Phayre's force holding Quetta, and
endeavouring to stretch out a hand towards Candahar; but the natural obstacles and lack of
transport prevented the arrival of help from that quarter. It is, however, scarcely correct
to say that Roberts had no line of retreat assured in case of defeat[327]. No serious fighting
was to be expected before Candahar; for the Afghan plundering instinct was likely to keep Ayub
near to that city, where the garrison was hard pressed. After leaving Ghazni, the Quetta route
became the natural way of retirement.

[Footnote 327: Shadbolt, op. cit. p. 107.]

As it happened, the difficulties were mainly those inflicted by the stern hand of Nature herself;
and their severity may be gauged by the fact that out of a well-seasoned force of less than
10,000 fighting men as many as 940 sick had at once to go into hospital at Candahar. The burning
days and frosty nights of the Afghan uplands were more fatal than the rifles of Ayub and the
knives of the ghazis. As Lord Roberts has modestly admitted, the long march gained in dramatic
effect because for three weeks he and his army were lost to the world, and, suddenly emerging
from the unknown, gained a decisive triumph. But, allowing for this element of picturesqueness,
so unusual in an age when the daily din of telegrams dulls the perception of readers, we may
still maintain that the march from Cabul to Candahar will bear comparison with any similar
achievement in modern history.

The story of British relations with Afghanistan is one which illustrates the infinite capacity
of our race to "muddle through" to some more or less satisfactory settlement. This was especially
the case in the spring and summer of 1880, when the accession of Mr. Gladstone to power and
the disaster of Maiwand changed the diplomatic and military situation. In one sense, and that
not a cryptic one, these events served to supplement one another. They rendered inevitable
the entire evacuation of Afghanistan. That, it need hardly be said, was the policy of Mr. Gladstone,
of the Secretary for India, Lord Hartington (now Duke of Devonshire), and of Lord Ripon.

On one point both parties were agreed. Events had shown how undesirable it was to hold Cabul
and Central Afghanistan. The evacuation of all these districts was specified in Lord Lytton's
last official Memorandum, that which he signed on June 7, 1880, as certain to take place as
soon as the political arrangements at Cabul were duly settled. The retiring Viceroy, however,
declared that in his judgment the whole Province of Candahar must be severed from the Cabul
Power, whether Abdur Rahman assented to it or not[328]. Obviously this implied the subjection
of Candahar to British rule in some form. General Roberts himself argued stoutly for the retention
of that city and district; and so did most of the military men. Lord Wolseley, on the other
hand, urged that it would place an undesirable strain upon the resources of India, and that
the city could readily be occupied from the Quetta position, if ever the Russians advanced
to Herat. The Cabinet strongly held this opinion. The exponents of Whig ideas, Lord Hartington
and the Duke of Argyll, herein agreeing with the exponents of a peaceful un-Imperial commercialism,
Mr. Bright and Mr. Chamberlain. Consequently the last of the British troops were withdrawn
from Candahar on April 15, 1881.

[Footnote 328: Lady B. Balfour, op. cit. pp. 430, 445. On June 8 Lord Ripon arrived at Simla
and took over the Viceroyalty from Lord Lytton; the latter was raised to an earldom.]

The retirement was more serious in appearance than in reality. The war had brought some substantial
gains. The new frontier acquired by the Treaty of Gandamak--and the terms of that compact were
practically void until Roberts' victory at Candahar gave them body and life--provided ample
means for sending troops easily to the neighbourhood of Cabul, Ghazni, and Candahar; and experience
showed that troops kept in the hill stations on the frontier preserved their mettle far better
than those cantoned in or near the unhealthy cities just named. The Afghans had also learnt
a sharp lesson of the danger and futility of leaning on Russia; and to this fact must be attributed
the steady adherence of the new Ameer to the British side.

Moreover, the success of his rule depended largely on our evacuation of his land. Experience
has shown that a practically independent and united Afghanistan forms a better barrier to a
Russian advance than an Afghanistan rent by the fanatical feuds that spring up during a foreign
occupation. Finally, the great need of India after the long famine was economy. A prosperous
and contented India might be trusted to beat off any army that Russia could send; a bankrupt
India would be the breeding-ground of strife and mutiny; and on these fell powers Skobeleff
counted as his most formidable allies[329].

[Footnote 329: See Appendix; also Lord Hartington's speeches in the House of Commons, March
25-6, 1881]

It remained to be seen whether Abdur Rahman could win Candahar and Herat, and, having won them,
keep them. At first Fortune smiled on his rival, Ayub. That pretender sent a force from Herat
southwards against the Ameer's troops, defeated them, and took Candahar (July 1881). But Abdur
Rahman had learnt to scorn the shifts of the fickle goddess. With a large force he marched
to that city, bought over a part of Ayub's following, and then utterly defeated the remainder.
This defeat was the end of Ayub's career. Flying back to Herat, he found it in the hands of
the Ameer's supporters, and was fain to seek refuge in Persia. Both of these successes seem
to have been due to the subsidies which the new Ameer drew from India[330].

[Footnote 330: Abdur Rahman's own account (op. cit. ch. ix.) ascribes his triumph to his own
skill and to Ayub's cowardice.]

We may here refer to the last scene in which Ayub played a part before Englishmen. Foiled of
his hopes in Persia, he finally retired to India. At a later day he appeared as a pensioner
on the bounty of that Government at a review held at Rawal Pindi in the Punjab in honour of
the visit of H.R.H. Prince Victor. The Prince, on being informed of his presence, rode up to
his carriage and saluted the fallen Sirdar. The incident profoundly touched the Afghans who
were present. One of them said: "It was a noble act. It shows that you English are worthy to
be the rulers of this land[331]."

[Footnote 331: Eighteen Years in the Khyber Pass (1879-1898), by Colonel Sir R. Warburton,
p. 213. The author's father had married a niece of the Ameer Dost Mohammed.]

The Afghans were accustomed to see the conquered crushed and scorned by the conqueror. Hence
they did not resent the truculent methods resorted to by Abdur Rahman in the consolidation
of his power. In his relentless grip the Afghan tribes soon acquired something of stability.
Certainly Lord Lytton never made a wiser choice than that of Abdur Rahman for the Ameership;
and, strange to say, that choice obviated the evils which the Viceroy predicted as certain
to accrue from the British withdrawal from Candahar[332]. Contrasting the action of Great Britain
towards himself with that of Russia towards Shere Ali in his closing days, the new Ameer could
scarcely waver in his choice of an alliance. And while he held the Indian Government away at
arm's length, he never wavered at heart.

[Footnote 332: Lord Lytton's speech in the House of Lords, Jan. 1881.]

       *       *       *       *       *

For in the meantime Russia had resumed her southward march, setting to work with the doggedness
that she usually displays in the task of avenging slights and overbearing opposition. The penury
of the exchequer, the plots of the Nihilists, and the discontent of the whole people after
the inglorious struggle with Turkey, would have imposed on any other Government a policy of
rest and economy. To the stiff bureaucracy of St. Petersburg these were so many motives for
adopting a forward policy in Asia.

In the autumn of 1878 General Lomakin had waged an unsuccessful campaign against the Tekke
Turkomans, and finally fell back with heavy losses on Krasnovodsk, his base of operations on
the Caspian Sea. In the summer of 1879 another expedition set out from that port to avenge
the defeat. Owing to the death of the chief, Lomakin again rose to the command. His bad dispositions
at the climax of the campaign led him to a more serious disaster. On coming up to the fortress
of Denghil Tepe, near the town of Geok Tepe, he led only 1400 men, or less than half of his
force, to bombard and storm a stronghold held by some 15,000 Turkomans, and fortified on the
plan suggested by a British officer, Lieutenant Butler[333]. Preluding his attack by a murderous
cannonade, he sent round his cavalry to check the flight of the faint-hearted among the garrison;
and, before his guns had fully done their work, he ordered the whole line to advance and carry
the walls by storm. At once the Turkoman fire redoubled in strength, tore away the front of
every attacking party, and finally drove back the assailants everywhere with heavy loss (Sept.
9, 1879). On the morrow the invaders fell back on the River Atrek and thence made their way
back to the Caspian in sore straits[334].

[Footnote 333: This officer wrote to the Globe on January 25, 1881, stating that he had fortified
two other posts east of Denghil Tepe. This led Skobeleff to push on to Askabad after the capture
of that place; but he found no strongholds. See Marvin's Russian Advance towards India, p. 85.]

[Footnote 334: Parl. Papers, Central Asia, No. 1 (1880), pp. 167-173, 182.]

The next year witnessed the advent of a great soldier on the scene. Skobeleff, the stormy petrel
of Russian life, the man whose giant frame was animated by a hero's soul, who, when pitched
from his horse in the rush on one of the death-dealing redoubts at Plevna, rose undaunted to
his feet, brandished his broken sword in the air and yelled at the enemy a defiance which thrilled
his broken lines to a final mad charge over the rampart--Skobeleff was at hand. He had culled
his first laurels at Khiva and Khokand, and now came to the shores of the Caspian to carry
forward the standards which he hoped one day to plant on the walls of Delhi. That he cherished
this hope is proved by the Memorandum which will be found in the Appendix of this volume. His
disclaimer of any such intention to Mr. Charles Marvin (which will also be found there) shows
that under his frank exterior there lay hidden the strain of Oriental duplicity so often found
among his countrymen in political life.

At once the operations felt the influence of his active, cheery, and commanding personality.
The materials for a railway which had been lying unused at Bender were now brought up; and
Russia found the money to set about the construction of a railway from Michaelovsk to the Tekke
Turkoman country--an undertaking which was destined wholly to change the conditions of warfare
in South Turkestan and on the Afghan border. By the close of the year more than forty miles
were roughly laid down, and Skobeleff was ready for his final advance from Kizil Arvat towards
Denghil Tepe.

Meanwhile the Tekkes had gained reinforcements from their kinsmen in the Merv oasis, and had
massed nearly 40,000 men--so rumour ran--at their stronghold. Nevertheless, they offered no
serious resistance to the Russian advance, doubtless because they hoped to increase the difficulties
of his retreat after the repulse which they determined to inflict at their hill fortress. But
Skobeleff excelled Lomakin in skill no less than in prowess and magnetic influence. He proceeded
to push his trenches towards the stronghold, so that on January 23, 1881, his men succeeded
in placing 2600 pounds of gunpowder under the south-eastern corner of the rampart. Early on
the following day the Russians began the assault; and while cannon and rockets wrought death
and dismay among the ill-armed defenders, the mighty shock of the explosion tore away fifty
yards of their rampart.

At once the Russian lines moved forward to end the work begun by gunpowder. With the blare
of martial music and with ringing cheers, they charged at the still formidable walls. A young
officer, Colonel Kuropatkin, who has since won notoriety in other lands, was ready with twelve
companies to rush into the breach. Their leading files swarmed up it before the Tekkes fully
recovered from the blow dealt by the hand of western science; but then the brave nomads closed
in on foes with whom they could fight, and brought the storming party to a standstill. Skobeleff
was ready for the emergency. True to his Plevna tactics of ever feeding an attack at the crisis
with new troops, he hurled forward two battalions of the line and companies of dismounted Cossacks.
These pushed on the onset, hewed their way through all obstacles, and soon met the smaller
storming parties which had penetrated at other points. By 1 p.m. the Russian standard waved
in triumph from the central hill of the fortress, and thenceforth bands of Tekkes began to
stream forth into the desert on the further side.

Now Skobeleff gave to his foes a sharp lesson, which, he claimed, was the most merciful in
the end. He ordered his men, horse and foot alike, to pursue the fugitives and spare no one.
Ruthlessly the order was obeyed. First, the flight of grape shot from the light guns, then
the bayonet, and lastly the Cossack lance, strewed the plain with corpses of men, women, and
children; darkness alone put an end to the butchery, and then the desert for eleven miles eastwards
of Denghil Tepe bore witness to the thoroughness of Muscovite methods of warfare. All the men
within the fortress were put to the sword. Skobeleff himself estimated the number of the slain
at 20,000[335]. Booty to the value of £600,000 fell to the lot of the victors. Since that awful
day the once predatory tribes of Tekkes have given little trouble. Skobeleff sent his righthand
man, Kuropatkin, to occupy Askabad, and reconnoitre towards Merv. But these moves were checked
by order of the Czar.

[Footnote 335: Siege and Assault of Denghil Tepe. By General Skobeleff (translated). London, 1881.]

A curious incident, told to Lord Curzon, illustrates the dread in which Russian troops have
since been held. At the opening of the railway to Askabad, five years later, the Russian military
bands began to play. At once the women and children there present raised cries and shrieks
of dread, while the men threw themselves on the ground. They imagined that the music was a
signal for another onslaught like that which preluded the capture of their former stronghold[336].

[Footnote 336: Russia in Central Asia in 1889. By the Hon. G.N. Curzon (1889), p. 83.]

This victory proved to be the last of Skobeleff's career. The Government having used their
knight-errant, now put him on one side as too insubordinate and ambitious for his post. To
his great disgust, he was recalled. He did not long survive. Owing to causes that are little
known, among which a round of fast-living is said to have played its part, he died suddenly
from failure of the heart at his residence near Moscow (July 7 1882). Some there were who whispered
dark things as to his militant notions being out of favour with the new Czar, Alexander III.;
others pointed significantly to Bismarck. Others again prattled of Destiny; but the best comment
on the death of Skobeleff would seem to be that illuminating saying of Novalis--"Character
is Destiny." Love of fame prompted in him the desire one day to measure swords with Lord Roberts
in the Punjab; but the coarser strain in his nature dragged him to earth at the age of thirty-nine.

The accession of Alexander III., after the murder of his father on March 13, 1881, promised
for a short time to usher in a more peaceful policy; but, in truth, the last important diplomatic
assurance of the reign of Alexander II. was that given by the Minister M. de Giers, to Lord
Dufferin, as to Russia's resolve not to occupy Merv. "Not only do we not want to go there,
but, happily, there is nothing which can require us to go there."

In spite of a similar assurance given on April 5 to the Russian ambassador in London, both
the need and the desire soon sprang into existence. Muscovite agents made their way to the
fruitful oasis of Merv; and a daring soldier, Alikhanoff, in the guise of a merchant's clerk,
proceeded thither early in 1882, skilfully distributed money to work up a Russian party, and
secretly sketched a plan of the fortress. Many chiefs and traders opposed Russia bitterly,
for our brilliant and adventurous countryman, O'Donovan, while captive there, sought to open
their eyes to the coming danger. But England's influence had fallen to zero since Skobeleff's
victory and her own withdrawal from Candahar[337].

[Footnote 337: C. Marvin, Merv, the Queen of the World (1881); E. O'Donovan, The Merv Oasis,
2 vols. (1882-83), and Merv (1883).]

In 1882 a Russian Engineer officer, Lessar, in the guise of a scientific explorer, surveyed
the route between Merv and Herat, and found that it presented far fewer difficulties than had
been formerly reported to exist[338]. Finally, in 1884, the Czar's Government sought to revenge
itself for Britain's continued occupation of Egypt by fomenting trouble near the Afghan border.
Alikhanoff then reappeared, not in disguise, browbeat the hostile chieftains at Merv by threats
of a Russian invasion, and finally induced them to take an oath of allegiance to Alexander
III. (Feb. 12, 1884)[339].

[Footnote 338: See his reports in Parl. Papers, Central Asia, No. 1 (1884), pp. 26, 36, 39,
63, 96, 106.]

[Footnote 339: Ibid. p. 119.]

There was, however, some reason for Russia's violation of her repeated promises respecting
Merv. In practical politics the theory of compensation has long gained an assured footing;
and, seeing that Britain had occupied Egypt partly as the mandatory of Europe, and now refused
to evacuate that land, the Russian Government had a good excuse for retaliation. As has happened
at every time of tension between the two Empires since 1855, the Czar chose to embarrass the
Island Power by pushing on towards India. As a matter of fact, the greater the pressure that
Russia brought to bear on the Afghan frontier, the greater became the determination of England
not to withdraw from Egypt. Hence, in the years 1882-4, both Powers plunged more deeply into
that "vicious circle" in which the policy of the Crimean War had enclosed them, and from which
they have never freed themselves.

The fact is deplorable. It has produced endless friction and has strained the resources of
two great Empires; but the allegation of Russian perfidy in the Merv affair may be left to
those who look at facts solely from the insular standpoint. In the eyes of patriotic Russians
England was the offender, first by opposing Muscovite policy tooth and nail in the Balkans,
secondly by seizing Egypt, and thirdly by refusing to withdraw from that commanding position.
The important fact to notice is that after each of these provocations Russia sought her revenge
on that flank of the British Empire to which she was guided by her own sure instincts and by
the shrieks of insular Cassandras. By moving a few sotnias of Cossacks towards Herat she compelled
her rival to spend a hundredfold as much in military preparations in India.

It is undeniable that Russia's persistent breach of her promises in Asiatic affairs exasperated
public opinion, and brought the two Empires to the verge of war. Conduct of that description
baffles the resources of diplomacy, which are designed to arrange disputes. Unfortunately,
British foreign affairs were in the hands of Lord Granville, whose gentle reproaches only awakened
contempt at St. Petersburg. The recent withdrawal of Lord Dufferin from St. Petersburg to Constantinople,
on the plea of ill-health, was also a misfortune; but his appointment to the Viceroyalty of
India (September 1884) placed at Calcutta a Governor-General superior to Lord Ripon in diplomatic
experience.

There was every need for the exercise of ability and firmness both at Westminster and Calcutta.
The climax in Russia's policy of lance-pricks was reached in the following year; and it has
been assumed, apparently on good authority, that the understanding arrived at by the three
Emperors in their meeting at Skiernewice (September 1884) implied a tacit encouragement of
Russia's designs in Central Asia, however much they were curbed in the Balkan Peninsula. This
was certainly the aim of Bismarck, and that he knew a good deal about Russian movements is
clear from his words to Busch on November 24, 1884: "Just keep a sharp look-out on the news
from Afghanistan. Something will happen there soon[340]."

[Footnote 340: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages of his History, vol. iii. pp. 124, 133 (Eng. ed.).]

This was clearly more than a surmise. At that time an Anglo-Russian Boundary Commission was
appointed to settle the many vexed questions concerning the delimitation of the Russo-Afghan
boundary. General Sir Peter Lumsden proceeded to Sarrakhs, expecting there to meet the Russian
Commissioners by appointment in the middle of October 1884. On various pretexts the work of
the Commission was postponed in accordance with advices sent from St. Petersburg. The aim of
this dilatory policy soon became evident. That was the time when (as will appear in Chapter
XVI.) the British expedition was slowly working its way towards Khartum in the effort to unravel
the web of fate then closing in on the gallant Gordon. The news of his doom reached England
on February 5, 1885. Then it was that Russia unmasked her designs. They included the appropriation
of the town and district of Panjdeh, which she herself had previously acknowledged to be in
Afghan territory. In vain did Lord Granville protest; in vain did he put forward proposals
which conceded very much to the Czar, but less than his Ministers determined to have. All that
he could obtain was a promise that the Russians would not advance further during the negotiations.

On March 13, Mr. Gladstone officially announced that an agreement to this effect had been arrived
at with Russia. The Foreign Minister at St. Petersburg, M. de Giers, on March 16 assured our
ambassador, Sir Edward Thornton, that that statement was correct. On March 26, however, the
light troops of General Komaroff advanced beyond the line of demarcation previously agreed
on, and on the following day pushed past the Afghan force holding positions in front of Panjdeh.
The Afghans refused to be drawn into a fight, but held their ground; thereupon, on March 29,
Komaroff sent them an ultimatum ordering them to withdraw beyond Panjdeh. A British staff-officer
requested him to reconsider and recall this demand, but he himself was waived aside. Finally,
on March 30, Komaroff attacked the Afghan position, and drove out the defenders with the loss
of 900 men. The survivors fell back on Herat, General Lumsden and his escort retired in the
same direction, and Russia took possession of the coveted prize[341].

[Footnote 341: See Parl. Papers, Central Asia, No. 1 (1885), for General Lumsden's refutation
of Komaroff's misstatements; also for the general accounts, ibid. No. 5 (1885), pp. 1-7.]

The news of this outrage reached England on April 7, and sent a thrill of indignation through
the breasts of the most peaceful. Twenty days later Mr. Gladstone proposed to Parliament to
vote the sum of £11,000,000 for war preparations. Of this sum all but £4,500,000 (needed for
the Sudan) was devoted to military and naval preparations against Russia; and we have the authority
of Mr. John Morley for saying that this vote was supported by Liberals "with much more than
a mechanical loyalty[342]." Russia had achieved the impossible; she had united Liberals of
all shades of thought against her, and the joke about "Mervousness" was heard no more.

[Footnote 342: J. Morley, Life of Gladstone, vol. iii. p. 184.]

Nevertheless the firmness of the Government resembled that of Bob Acres: it soon oozed away.
Ministers deferred to the Czar's angry declaration that he would allow no inquiry into the
action of General Komaroff. This alone was a most mischievous precedent, as it tended to inflate
Russian officers with the belief that they could safely set at defiance the rules of international
law. Still worse were the signs of favour showered on the violator of a truce by the sovereign
who gained the reputation of being the upholder of peace. From all that is known semi-officially
with respect to the acute crisis of the spring of 1885, it would appear that peace was due
solely to the tact of Sir Robert Morier, our ambassador at St. Petersburg, and to the complaisance
of the Gladstone Cabinet.

Certainly this quality carried Ministers very far on the path of concession. When negotiations
were resumed, the British Government belied its former promises of firmness in a matter that
closely concerned our ally, and surrendered Panjdeh to Russia, but on the understanding that
the Zulfikar Pass should be retained by the Afghans. It should be stated, however, that Abdur
Rahman had already assured Lord Dufferin, during interviews which they had at Rawal Pindi early
in April, of his readiness to give up Panjdeh if he could retain that pass and its approaches.
The Russian Government conceded this point; but their negotiators then set to work to secure
possession of heights dominating the pass. It seemed that Lord Granville was open to conviction
even on this point.

Such was the state of affairs when, on June 9, 1885, Mr. Gladstone's Ministry resigned owing
to a defeat on a budget question. The accession of Lord Salisbury to power after a brief interval
helped to clear up these disputes. The crisis in Bulgaria of September 1885 (see Chapter X.)
also served to distract the Russian Government, the Czar's chief pre-occupation now being to
have his revenge on Prince Alexander of Battenberg. Consequently the two Powers came to a compromise
about the Zulfikar Pass[343]. There still remained several questions outstanding, and only
after long and arduous surveys, not unmixed with disputes, was the present boundary agreed
on in a Protocol signed on July 22, 1887. We may here refer to a prophecy made by one of Bismarck's
confidantes, Bucher, at the close of May 1885: "I believe the [Afghan] matter will come up
again in about five years, when the [Russian] railways are finished[344]."

[Footnote 343: Parl. Papers, Central Asia, No. 4 (1885), pp. 41-72.]

[Footnote 344: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages, etc., vol. iii. p. 135.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus it was that Russia secured her hold on districts dangerously near to Herat. Her methods
at Panjdeh can only be described as a deliberate outrage on international law. It is clear
that Alexander III. and his officials cared nothing for the public opinion of Europe, and that
they pushed on their claims by means which appealed with overpowering force to the dominant
motive of orientals--fear. But their action was based on another consideration. Relying on
Mr. Gladstone's well-known love of peace, they sought to degrade the British Government in
the eyes of the Asiatic peoples. In some measure they succeeded. The prestige of Britain thenceforth
paled before that of the Czar; and the ease and decisiveness of the Russian conquests, contrasting
with the fitful advances and speedy withdrawals of British troops, spread the feeling in Central
Asia that the future belonged to Russia.

Fortunately, this was not the light in which Abdur Rahman viewed the incident. He was not the
man to yield to intimidation. That "strange, strong creature," as Lord Dufferin called him,
"showed less emotion than might have been expected," but his resentment against Russia was
none the less keen[345]. Her pressure only served to drive him to closer union with Great Britain.
Clearly the Russians misunderstood Abdur Rahman. Their miscalculation was equally great as
regards the character of the Afghans and the conditions of life among those mountain clans.
Russian officers and administrators, after pushing their way easily through the loose rubble
of tribes that make up Turkestan, did not realise that they had to deal with very different
men in Afghanistan. To ride roughshod over tribes who live in the desert and have no natural
rallying-point may be very effective; but that policy is risky when applied to tribes who cling
to their mountains.

[Footnote 345: In his Life (vol. i, pp. 244-246) he also greatly blames British policy.]

The analogy of Afghanistan to Switzerland may again serve to illustrate the difference between
mountaineers and plain-dwellers. It was only when the Hapsburgs or the French threatened the
Swiss that they formed any effective union for the defence of the Fatherland. Always at variance
in time of peace, the cantons never united save under the stress of a common danger. The greater
the pressure from without, the closer was the union. That truth has been illustrated several
times from the age of the legendary Tell down to the glorious efforts of 1798. In a word, the
selfsame mountaineers who live disunited in time of peace, come together and act closely together
in war, or under threat of war.

Accordingly, the action of England in retiring from Candahar, contrasting as it did with Russia's
action at Panjdeh, marked out the line of true policy for Abdur Rahman. Thenceforth he and
his tribesmen saw more clearly than ever that Russia was the foe; and it is noteworthy that
under the shadow of the northern peril there has grown up among those turbulent clans a sense
of unity never known before. Unconsciously Russia has been playing the part of a Napoleon I.;
she has ground together some at least of the peoples of Central Asia with a thoroughness which
may lead to unexpected results if ever events favour a general rising against the conqueror.

Amidst all his seeming vacillations of policy, Abdur Rahman was governed by the thought of
keeping England, and still more Russia, from his land. He absolutely refused to allow railways
and telegraphs to enter his territories; for, as he said: "Where Europeans build railways,
their armies quickly follow. My neighbours have all been swallowed up in this manner. I have
no wish to suffer their fate."

His judgment was sound. Skobeleff conquered the Tekkes by his railway; and the acquisition
of Merv and Panjdeh was really the outcome of the new trans-Caspian line, which, as Lord Curzon
has pointed out, completely changed the problem of the defence of India. Formerly the natural
line of advance for Russia was from Orenburg to Tashkend and the upper Oxus; and even now that
railway would enable her to make a powerful diversion against Northern Afghanistan[346]. But
the route from Krasnovodsk on the Caspian to Merv and Kushk presents a shorter and far easier
route, leading, moreover, to the open side of Afghanistan, Herat, and Candahar. Recent experiments
have shown that a division of troops can be sent in eight days from Moscow to Kushk within
a short distance of the Afghan frontier. In a word, Russia can operate against Afghanistan
by a line (or rather by two lines) far shorter and easier than any which Great Britain can
use for its defence[347].

[Footnote 346: See Col. A. Durand's The Making of a Frontier (1899), pp. 41-43.]

[Footnote 347: Colquhoun, Russia against India, p. 170. Lord Curzon in 1894 went over much
of the ground between Sarrakhs and Candahar and found it quite easy for an army (except in
food supply).]

It is therefore of the utmost importance to prevent her pushing on her railways into that country.
This is the consideration which inspired Mr. Balfour's noteworthy declaration of May 11, 1905,
in the House of Commons:--

     As transport is the great difficulty of an invading army, we
     must not allow anything to be done which would facilitate
     transport. It ought in my opinion to be considered as an act
     of direct aggression upon this country that any attempt
     should be made to build a railway, in connection with the
     Russian strategic railways, within the territory of
     Afghanistan.

It is fairly certain that the present Ameer, Habibulla, who succeeded his father in 1901, holds
those views. This doubtless was the reason why, early in 1905, he took the unprecedented step
of inviting the Indian Government to send a Mission to Cabul. In view of the increase of Russia's
railways in Central Asia there was more need than ever of coming to a secret understanding
with a view to defence against that Power.

Finally, we may note that Great Britain has done very much to make up for her natural defects
of position. The Panjdeh affair having relegated the policy of "masterly inactivity" to the
limbo of benevolent futilities, the materials for the Quetta railway, which had been in large
part sent back to Bombay in the year 1881, were now brought back again; and an alternative
route was made to Quetta. The urgent need of checkmating French intrigues in Burmah led to
the annexation of that land (November 1885); and the Kurram Valley, commanding Cabul, which
the Gladstone Government had abandoned, was reoccupied. The Quetta district was annexed to
India in 1887 under the title of British Baluchistan. The year 1891 saw an important work undertaken
in advance of Quetta, the Khojak tunnel being then driven through a range close by the Afghan
frontier, while an entrenched camp was constructed near by for the storage of arms and supplies.
These positions, and the general hold which Britain keeps over the Baluchee clans, enable the
defenders of India to threaten on the flank any advance by the otherwise practicable route
from Candahar to the Indus.

Certainly there is every need for careful preparations against any such enterprise. Lord Curzon,
writing before Russia's strategic railways were complete, thought it feasible for Russia speedily
to throw 150,000 men into Afghanistan, feed them there, and send on 90,000 of them against
the Indus[348]. After the optimistic account of the problem of Indian defence given by Mr.
Balfour in the speech above referred to, it is well to remember that, though Russia cannot
invade India until she has conquered Afghanistan, yet for that preliminary undertaking she
has the advantages of time and position nearly entirely on her side. Further, the completion
of her railways almost up to the Afghan frontier (the Tashkend railway is about to be pushed
on to the north bank of the Oxus, near Balkh) minimises the difficulties of food supply and
transport in Afghanistan, on which the Prime Minister laid so much stress.

[Footnote 348: Op. cit. p. 307. Other authorities differ as to the practicability of feeding
so large a force even in the comparatively fertile districts of Herat and Candahar.]

It is, however, indisputable that the security of India has been greatly enhanced by the steady
pushing on of that "Forward Policy," which all friends of peace used to decry. The Ameer, Abdur
Rahman, irritated by the making of the Khojak tunnel, was soothed by Sir Mortimer Durand's
Mission in 1893; and in return for an increase of subsidy and other advantages, he agreed that
the tribes of the debatable borderland--the Waziris, Afridis, and those of the Swat and Chitral
valleys--should be under the control of the Viceroy. Russia showed her annoyance at this Mission
by seeking to seize an Afghan town, Murghab; but the Ameer's troops beat them off[349]. Lord
Lansdowne claimed that this right of permanently controlling very troublesome tribes would
end the days of futile "punitive expeditions." In the main he was right. The peace and security
of the frontier depend on the tact with which some few scores of officers carry on difficult
work of which no one ever hears[350].

[Footnote 349: Life of Abdur Rahman, vol. i. p. 287.]

[Footnote 350: For this work see The Life of Sir R. Sandeman; Sir R. Warburton, Eighteen Years
in the Khyber; Durand, op. cit.; Bruce, The Forward Policy and its Results; Sir James Willcock's
From Cabul to Kumassi; S.S. Thorburn, The Punjab in Peace and War.]

In nearly all cases they have succeeded in their heroic toil. But the work of pacification
was disturbed in the year 1895 by a rising in the Chitral Valley, which cut off in Chitral
Fort a small force of Sikhs and loyal Kashmir troops with their British officers. Relieving
columns from the Swat Valley and Gilgit cut their way through swarms of hillmen and relieved
the little garrison after a harassing leaguer of forty-five days[351]. The annoyance evinced
by Russian officers at the success of the expedition and the retention of the whole of the
Chitral district (as large as Wales) prompts the conjecture that they had not been strangers
to the original outbreak. In this year Russia and England delimited their boundaries in the Pamirs.

[Footnote 351: The Relief of Chitral, by Captains G.J. and F.E. Younghusband (1895).]

The year 1897 saw all the hill tribes west and south of Peshawur rise against the British Raj.
Moslem fanaticism, kindled by the Sultan's victories over the Greeks, is said to have brought
about the explosion, though critics of the Calcutta Government ascribe it to official folly[352].
With truly Roman solidity the British Government quelled the risings, the capture of the heights
of Dargai by the "gay Gordons" showing the sturdy hillmen that they were no match for our best
troops. Since then the "Forward Policy" has amply justified itself, thousands of fine troops
being recruited from tribes which were recently daring marauders, ready for a dash into the
plains of the Punjab at the bidding of any would-be disturber of the peace of India. In this
case, then, Britain has transformed a troublesome border fringe into a protective girdle.

[Footnote 352: See The Punjab in Peace and War, by S.S. Thorburn, ad fin.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Whether the Russian Government intends in the future to invade India is a question which time
alone can answer. Viewing her Central Asian policy from the time of the Crimean War, the student
must admit that it bears distinct traces of such a design. Her advance has always been most
conspicuous in the years succeeding any rebuff dealt by Great Britain, as happened after that
war, and still more, after the Berlin Congress. At first, the theory that a civilised Power
must swallow up restless raiding neighbours could be cited in explanation of such progress;
but such a defence utterly fails to account for the cynical aggression at Panjdeh and the favour
shown by the Czar to the general who violated a truce. Equally does it fail to explain the
pushing on of strategic railways since the time of the conclusion of the Anglo-Japanese Treaty
of 1902. Possibly Russia intends only to exert upon that Achilles heel of the British Empire
the terrible but nominally pacific pressure which she brings to bear on the open frontiers
of Germany and Austria; and the constant discussion by her officers of plans of invasion of
India may be wholly unofficial. At the same time we must remember that the idea has long been
a favourite one with the Russian bureaucracy; and the example of the years 1877-81 shows that
that class is ready and eager to wipe out by a campaign in Central Asia the memory of a war
barren of fame and booty. But that again depends on more general questions, especially those
of finance (now a very serious question for Russia, seeing that she has drained Paris and Berlin
of all possible loans) and of alliance with some Great Power, or Powers, anxious to effect
the overthrow of Great Britain.

If Great Britain be not enervated by luxury; if she be not led astray from the paths of true
policy by windy talk about "splendid isolation"; if also she can retain the loyal support of
the various peoples of India,--she may face the contingency of such an invasion with firmness
and equanimity. That it will come is the opinion of very many authorities of high standing.
A native gentleman of high official rank, who brings forward new evidence on the subject, has
recently declared it to be "inevitable[353]." Such, too, is the belief of the greatest authority
on Indian warfare.

[Footnote 353: See The Nineteenth Century and After for May 1905.]

POSTSCRIPT

On May 22, 1905, the Times published particulars concerning the Anglo-Afghan Treaty recently
signed at Cabul. It renewed the compact made with the late Ameer, whereby he agreed to have
no relations with any foreign Power except Great Britain, the latter agreeing to defend him
against foreign aggression. The subsidy of £120,000 a year is to be continued, but the present
Ameer, Habibulla, henceforth receives a title equivalent to "King" and is styled "His Majesty."

CHAPTER XV

BRITAIN IN EGYPT

It will be well to begin the story of the expansion of the nations of Europe in Africa by a
brief statement of the events which brought Britain to her present position in Egypt. As we
have seen, the French conquest of Tunis, occurring a year earlier, formed the first of the
many expeditions which inaugurated "the partition of Africa"--a topic which, as regards the
west, centre, and south of that continent, will engage our attention subsequently. In this
chapter and the following it will be convenient to bring together the facts concerning the
valley of the Nile, a district which up to a recent time has had only a slight connection with
the other parts of that mighty continent. In his quaint account of that mysterious land, Herodotus
always spoke of it as distinct from Libya; and this aloofness has characterised Lower Egypt
almost down to the present age, when the events which we are about to consider brought it into
close touch with the equatorial regions.

The story of the infiltration of British influence into Egypt is one of the most curious in
all history. To this day, despite the recent agreement with France (1904), the position of
England in the valley of the Lower Nile is irregular, in view of the undeniable fact that the
Sultan is still the suzerain of that land. What is even stranger, it results from the gradual
control which the purse-holder has imposed on the borrower. The power that holds the purse-strings
counts for much in the political world, as also elsewhere. Both in national and domestic affairs
it ensures, in the last instance, the control of the earning department over the spending department.
It is the ultima ratio of Parliaments and husbands.

In order fully to understand the relations of Egypt to Turkey and to the purse-holders of the
West, we must glance back at the salient events in her history for the past century. The first
event that brought the land of the Pharaohs into the arena of European politics was the conquest
by Bonaparte in 1798. He meant to make Egypt a flourishing colony, to have the Suez Canal cut,
and to use Alexandria and Suez as bases of action against the British possessions in India.
This daring design was foiled by Nelson's victory at the Nile, and by the Abercromby-Hutchinson
expedition of 1801, which compelled the surrender of the French army left by Bonaparte in Egypt.
The three years of French occupation had no great political results except the awakening of
British statesmanship to a sense of the value of Egypt for the safeguarding of India. They
also served to weaken the power of the Mamelukes, a Circassian military caste which had reduced
the Sultan's authority over Egypt to a mere shadow. The ruin of this warlike cavalry was gradually
completed by an Albanian soldier of fortune named Mohammed Ali, who, first in the name of the
Sultan, and later in defiance of his power, gradually won the allegiance of the different races
of Egypt and made himself virtually ruler of the land. This powerful Pasha conquered the northern
part of the Sudan, and founded Khartum as the southern bulwark of his realm (1823). He seems
to have grasped the important fact that, as Egypt depends absolutely on the waters poured down
by the Nile in its periodic floods, her rulers must control that river in its upper reaches--an
idea also held by the ablest of the Pharaohs. To secure this control, what place could be so
suitable as Khartum, at the junction of the White and Blue Niles?

Mohammed Ali was able to build up an army and navy, which in 1841 was on the point of overthrowing
Turkish power in Syria, when Great Britain intervened, and by the capture of Acre compelled
the ambitious Pasha to abandon his northern schemes and own once more the suzerainty of the
Porte. The Sultan, however, acknowledged that the Pashalic of Egypt should be hereditary in
his family. We may remark here that England and France had nearly come to blows over the Syrian
question of that year; but, thanks to the firm demeanour of Lord Palmerston, their rivalry
ended, as in 1801, in the triumph of British influence and the assertion of the nominal ascendancy
of the Sultan in Egypt. Mohammed was to pay his lord £363,000 a year. He died in 1849.

No great event took place during the rule of the next Pashas, or Khedives as they were now
termed, Abbas I. (1849-54), and Said (1854-63), except that M. de Lesseps, a French engineer,
gained the consent of Said in 1856 to the cutting of a ship canal, the northern entrance to
which bears the name of that Khedive. Owing to the rivalry of Britain and France over the canal
it was not finished until 1869, during the rule of Ismail (1863-79). We may note here that,
as the concession was granted to the Suez Canal Company only for ninety-nine years, the canal
will become the property of the Egyptian Government in the year 1968.

The opening of the canal placed Egypt once more on one of the greatest highways of the world's
commerce, and promised to bring endless wealth to her ports. That hope has not been fulfilled.
The profits have gone almost entirely to the foreign investors, and a certain amount of trade
has been withdrawn from the Egyptian railways. Sir John Stokes, speaking in 1887, said he found
in Egypt a prevalent impression that the country had been injured by the canal[354].

[Footnote 354: Quoted by D.A. Cameron, Egypt in the Nineteenth Century, p. 242.]

Certainly Egypt was less prosperous after its opening, but probably owing to another and mightier
event which occurred at the beginning of Ismail's rule. This was the American Civil War. The
blockade of the Southern States by the federal cruisers cut off from Lancashire and Northern
France the supplies of raw cotton which are the life-blood of their industries. Cotton went
up in price until even the conservative fellahin of Egypt saw the desirability of growing that
strange new shrub--the first instance on record of a change in their tillage that came about
without compulsion. So great were the profits reaped by intelligent growers that many fellahin
bought Circassian and Abyssinian wives, and established harems in which jewels, perfumes, silks,
and mirrors were to be found. In a word, Egypt rioted in its new-found wealth. This may be
imagined from the totals of exports, which in three years rose from £4,500,000 to considerably
more than £13,000,000[355].

[Footnote 355: Egypt and the Egyptian Question, by Sir D. Mackenzie Wallace (1883), pp. 318-320.]

But then came the end of the American Civil War. Cotton fell to its normal price, and ruin
stared Egypt in the face. For not only merchants and fellahin, but also their ruler, had plunged
into expenditure, and on the most lavish scale. Nay! Believing that the Suez Canal would bring
boundless wealth to his land, Ismail persisted in his palace-building and other forms of oriental
extravagance, with the result that in the first twelve years of his reign, that is, by the
year 1875, he had spent more than £100,000,000 of public money, of which scarcely one-tenth
had been applied to useful ends. The most noteworthy of these last were the Barrage of the
Nile in the upper part of the Delta, an irrigation canal in Upper Egypt, the Ibrahimiyeh Canal,
and the commencement of the Wady Haifa-Khartum railway. The grandeur of his views may be realised
when it is remembered that he ordered this railway to be made of the same gauge as those of
South Africa, because "it would save trouble in the end."

As to the sudden fall in the price of cotton, his only expedient for making good the loss was
to grow sugar on a great scale, but this was done so unwisely as to increase the deficits.
As a natural consequence, the Egyptian debt, which at his accession stood at £3,000,000, reached
the extraordinary sum of £89,000,000 in the year 1876, and that, too, despite the increase
of the land tax by one-half. All the means which oriental ingenuity has devised for the systematic
plunder of a people were now put in force; so that Sir Alfred Milner (now Lord Milner), after
unequalled opportunities of studying the Egyptian Question, declared: "There is nothing in
the financial history of any country, from the remotest ages to the present time, to equal
this carnival of extravagance and oppression[356]."

[Footnote 356: England in Egypt, by Sir Alfred Milner (Lord Milner), 1892, pp. 216-219. (The
Egyptian £ is equal to £1:0:6.) I give the figures as pounds sterling.]

The Khedive himself had to make some sacrifices of a private nature, and one of these led to
an event of international importance. Towards the close of the year 1875 he decided to sell
the 177,000 shares which he held in the Suez Canal Company. In the first place he offered them
secretly to the French Government for 100,000,000 francs; and the Foreign Minister, the Duc
Decazes, it seems, wished to buy them; but the Premier, M. Buffet, and other Ministers hesitated,
perhaps in view of the threats of war from Germany, which had alarmed all responsible men.
In any case, France lost her chance[357]. Fortunately for Great Britain, news of the affair
was sent to one of her ablest journalists, Mr. Frederick Greenwood, who at once begged Lord
Derby, then Minister for Foreign Affairs, to grant him an interview. The result was an urgent
message from Lord Derby to Colonel Staunton, the British envoy in Egypt, to find out the truth
from the Khedive himself. The tidings proved to be correct, and the Beaconsfield Cabinet at
once sanctioned the purchase of the shares for the sum of close on £4,000,000.

[Footnote 357: La Question d'Égypte, by C. de Freycinet (1905), p. 151.]

It is said that the French envoy to Egypt was playing billiards when he heard of the purchase,
and in his rage he broke his cue in half. His anger was natural, quite apart from financial
considerations. In that respect the purchase has been a brilliant success; for the shares are
now worth more than £30,000,000, and yield an annual return of about a million sterling; but
this monetary gain is as nothing when compared with the influence which the United Kingdom
has gained in the affairs of a great undertaking whereby M. de Lesseps hoped to assure the
ascendancy of France in Egypt.

The facts of history, it should be noted, lent support to this contention of "the great Frenchman."
The idea of the canal had originated with Napoleon I., and it was revived with much energy
by the followers of the French philosopher, St. Simon, in the years 1833-37[358]. The project,
however, then encountered the opposition of British statesmen, as it did from the days of Pitt
to those of Palmerston. This was not unnatural; for it promised to bring back to the ports
of the Mediterranean the preponderant share in the eastern trade which they had enjoyed before
the discovery of the route by the Cape of Good Hope. The political and commercial interests
of England were bound up with the sea route, especially after the Cape was definitively assigned
to her by the Peace of Paris of 1814; but she could not see with indifference the control by
France of a canal which would divert trade once more to the old overland route. That danger
was now averted by the financial coup just noticed--an affair which may prove to have been
scarcely less important in a political sense than Nelson's victory at the Nile.

[Footnote 358: La Question d'Égypte, by C. de Freycinet, p. 106.]

In truth, the Sea Power has made up for her defects of position as regards Egypt by four great
strokes--the triumph of her great admiral, the purchase of Ismail's canal shares, the repression
of Arabi's revolt, and Lord Kitchener's victory at Omdurman. The present writer has not refrained
from sharp criticism on British policy in the period 1870-1900; and the Egyptian policy of
the Cabinets of Queen Victoria has been at times open to grave censure; but, on the whole,
it has come out well, thanks to the ability of individuals to supply the qualities of foresight,
initiative, and unswerving persistence, in which Ministers since the time of Chatham have rarely
excelled.

The sale of Ismail's canal shares only served to stave off the impending crash which would
have formed the natural sequel to this new "South Sea Bubble." All who took part in this carnival
of folly ought to have suffered alike, Ismail and his beys along with the stock-jobbers and
dividend-hunters of London and Paris. In an ordinary case these last would have lost their
money; but in this instance the borrower was weak and dependent, while the lenders were in
a position to stir up two powerful Governments to action. Nearly the whole of the Egyptian
loans was held in England and France; and in 1876, when Ismail was floating swiftly down stream
to the abyss of bankruptcy, the British and French bondholders cast about them for means to
secure their own safety. They organised themselves for the protection of their interests. The
Khedive consented to hear the advice of their representatives, Messrs. Goschen and Joubert;
but it was soon clear that he desired merely a comfortable liquidation and the continuance
of his present expenditure.

That year saw the institution of the "Caisse de la Dette," with power to receive the revenue
set aside for the service of the debt, and to sanction or forbid new loans; and in the month
of November 1876 the commission of bondholders took the form of the "Dual Control." In 1878
a Commission was appointed with power to examine the whole of the Egyptian administration.
It met with the strongest opposition from the Khedive, until in the next year means were found
to bring about his abdication by the act of the Sultan (June 26, 1879). His successor was his
son Tewfik (1879-92).

On their side the bondholders had to submit to a reduction of rates of interest to a uniform
rate of 4 per cent on the Unified Debt. Even so, it was found in the year 1881--a prosperous
year--that about half of the Egyptian revenue, then £9,229,000, had to be diverted to the payment
of that interest[359]. Again, one must remark that such a situation in an overtaxed country
would naturally end in bankruptcy; but this was prevented by foreign control, which sought
to cut down expenditure in all directions. As a natural result, many industries suffered from
the lack of due support; for even in the silt-beds formed by the Nile (and they are the real
Egypt) there is need of capital to bring about due results. In brief, the popular discontent
gave strength to a movement which aimed at ousting foreign influences of every kind, not only
the usurers and stock-jobbers that sucked the life-blood of the land, but even the engineers
and bankers who quickened its sluggish circulation. This movement was styled a national movement;
and its abettors raised that cry of "Egypt for Egyptians," which has had its counterpart wherever
selfish patriots seek to keep all the good things of the land to themselves. The Egyptian troubles
of the year 1882 originated partly in feelings of this narrow kind, and partly in the jealousies
and strifes of military cliques.

[Footnote 359: England in Egypt, etc. p. 222. See there for details as to the Dual Control;
also de Freycinet, op. cit. chap. ii., and The Expansion of Egypt, by A. Silva White, chap. vi.]

Sir D. Mackenzie Wallace, after carefully investigating the origin of the "Arabi movement,"
came to the conclusion that it was to be found in the determination of the native Egyptian
officers to force their way to the higher grades of that army, hitherto reserved for Turks
or Circassians. Said and Ismail had favoured the rise of the best soldiers of the fellahin
class (that is, natives), and several of them, on becoming colonels, aimed at yet higher posts.
This aroused bitter resentment in the dominant Turkish caste, which looked on the fellahin
as born to pay taxes and bear burdens. Under the masterful Ismail these jealousies were hidden;
but the young and inexperienced Tewfik, the nominee of the rival Western Powers, was unable
to bridle the restless spirits of the army, who looked around them for means to strengthen
their position at the expense of their rivals. These jealousies were inflamed by the youthful
caprice of Tewfik. At first he extended great favour to Ali Fehmi, an officer of fellah descent,
only to withdraw it owing to the intrigues of a Circassian rival. Ali Fehmi sought for revenge
by forming a cabal with other fellah colonels, among whom a popular leader soon came to the
front. This was Arabi Bey.

Arabi's frame embodied the fine animal qualities of the better class of fellahin, but to these
he added mental gifts of no mean order. After imbibing the rather narrow education of a devout
Moslem, he formed some acquaintance with western thought, and from it his facile mind selected
a stock of ideas which found ready expression in conversation. His soft dreamy eyes and fluent
speech rarely failed to captivate men of all classes[360]. His popularity endowed the discontented
camarilla with new vigour, enabling it to focus all the discontented elements, and to become
a movement of almost national import. Yet Arabi was its spokesman, or figure-head, rather than
the actual propelling power. He seems to have been to a large extent the dupe of schemers who
pushed him on for their own advantage. At any rate it is significant that after his fall he
declared that British supremacy was the one thing needful for Egypt; and during his old age,
passed in Ceylon, he often made similar statements[361]. The movement clearly was military
and anti-Turk in its beginning. Later on it sought support in the people, and became anti-European
and to some extent national; but to that extent it ceased to be anti-Turk. Besides, why should
the Sultan have encouraged it? How far it genuinely relied on the populace must for the present
remain in doubt; but the evidence collected by Mr. Broadley, How We Defended Arabi (1884),
seems to show that Arabi and his supporters were inspired by thoroughly patriotic and enlightened
motives.]

The Khedive's Ministers, hearing of the intrigues of the discontented officers, resolved to
arrest their chiefs; but on the secret leaking out, the offenders turned the tables on the
authorities, and with soldiers at their back demanded the dismissal of the Minister of War
and the redress of their chief grievance--the undue promotion of Turks and Circassians.

The Khedive felt constrained to yield, and agreed to the appointment of a Minister of War who
was a secret friend of the plotters. They next ventured on a military demonstration in front
of the Khedive's palace, with a view to extorting the dismissal of the able and energetic Prime
Minister, Riaz Pasha. Again Tewfik yielded, and consented to the appointment of the weak and
indolent Sherif Pasha. To consolidate their triumph the mutineers now proposed measures which
would please the populace. Chief among them was a plan for instituting a consultative National
Assembly. This would serve as a check on the Dual Control and on the young Khedive, whom it
had placed in his present ambiguous position.

A Chamber of Notables met in the closing days of 1881, and awakened great hopes, not only in
Egypt, but among all who saw hope in the feeling of nationality and in a genuine wish for reform
among a Moslem people. What would have happened had the Notables been free to work out the
future of Egypt, it is impossible to say. The fate of the Young Turkish party and of Midhat's
constitution of December 1877 formed by no means a hopeful augury. In the abstract there is
much to be said for the two chief demands of the Notables--that the Khedive's Ministers should
be responsible to the people's representatives, and that the Dual Control of Great Britain
and France should be limited to the control of the revenues set apart for the purposes of the
Egyptian public debt. The petitioners, however, ignored the fact that democracy could scarcely
be expected to work successfully in a land where not one man in a hundred had the least notion
what it meant, and, further, that the Western Powers would not give up their coign of vantage
at the bidding of Notables who really represented little more than the dominant military party.
Besides, the acts of this party stamped it as oriental even while it masqueraded in the garb
of western democracy. Having grasped the reins of government, the fellahin colonels proceeded
to relegate their Turkish and Circassian rivals to service at Khartum--an ingenious form of
banishment. Against this and other despotic acts the representatives of Great Britain and France
energetically protested, and, seeing that the Khedive was helpless, they brought up ships of
war to make a demonstration against the de facto governors of Egypt.

It should be noted that these steps were taken by the Gladstone and Gambetta Cabinets, which
were not likely to intervene against a genuinely democratic movement merely in the interests
of British and French bondholders. On January 7, 1882, the two Cabinets sent a Joint Note to
the Khedive assuring him of their support and of their desire to remove all grievances, external
and internal alike, that threatened the existing order[362].

[Footnote 362: For Gambetta's despatches see de Freycinet, op. cit. pp. 209 et seq.]

While, however, the Western Powers sided with the Khedive, the other European States, including
Turkey, began to show signs of impatience and annoyance at any intervention on their part.
Russia saw the chance of revenge on England for the events of 1878, and Bismarck sought to
gain the favour of the Sultan. As for that potentate, his conduct was as tortuous as usual.
From the outset he gave secret support to Arabi's party, probably with the view of undermining
the Dual Control and the Khedive's dynasty alike. He doubtless saw that Turkish interests might
ultimately be furthered even by the men who had imprisoned or disgraced Turkish officers and
Ministers.

Possibly the whole question might have been peaceably solved had Gambetta remained in power;
for he was strongly in favour of a joint Anglo-French intervention in case the disorders continued.
The Gladstone Government at that time demurred to such intervention, and claimed that it would
come more legally from Turkey, or, if this were undesirable, from all the Powers; but this
divergence of view did not prevent the two Governments from acting together on several matters.
Gambetta, however, fell from power at the end of January 1882, and his far weaker successor,
de Freycinet, having to face a most complex parliamentary situation in France and the possible
hostility of the other Powers, drew back from the leading position which Gambetta's bolder
policy had accorded to France. The vacillations at Paris tended alike to weaken Anglo-French
action and to encourage the Arabi party and the Sultan. As matters went from bad to worse in
Egypt, the British Foreign Minister, Lord Granville, proposed on May 24 that the Powers should
sanction an occupation of Egypt by Turkish troops. To this M. de Freycinet demurred, and, while
declaring that France would not send an expedition, proposed that a European Conference should
be held on the Egyptian Question.

The Gladstone Cabinet at once agreed to this, and the Conference met for a short time at the
close of June, but without the participation of Turkey[363]. For the Sultan, hoping that the
divisions of the Powers would enable him to restore Turkish influence in Egypt, now set his
emissaries to work to arouse there the Moslem fanaticism which he has so profitably exploited
in all parts of his Empire. A Turkish Commission had been sent to inquire into matters--with
the sole result of enriching the chief commissioner. In brief, thanks to the perplexities and
hesitations of the Western Powers and the ill-humour manifested by Germany and Russia, Europe
was helpless, and the Arabi party felt that they had the game in their own hands. Bismarck
said to his secretary, Busch, on June 8: "They [the British] set about the affair in an awkward
way, and have got on a wrong track by sending their ironclads to Alexandria, and now, finding
that there is nothing to be done, they want the rest of Europe to help them out of their difficulty
by means of a Conference[364]."

[Footnote 363: Morley, Life of Gladstone, iii. p. 79.]

[Footnote 364: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages of his History, vol. iii. p. 51.]

Already, on May 27, the Egyptian malcontents had ventured on a great military demonstration
against the Khedive, which led to Arabi being appointed Minister of War. His followers also
sought to inflame the hatred to foreigners for which the greed of Greek and Jewish usurers
was so largely responsible. The results perhaps surpassed the hopes of the Egyptian nationalists.
Moslem fanaticism suddenly flashed into flame. On the nth of June a street brawl between a
Moslem and a Maltese led to a fierce rising. The "true believers" attacked the houses of the
Europeans, secured a great quantity of loot, and killed about fifty of them, including men
from the British squadron. The English party that always calls out for non-intervention made
vigorous efforts at that time, and subsequently, to represent this riot and massacre as a mere
passing event which did not seriously compromise the welfare of Egypt; but Sir Alfred Milner
in his calm and judicial survey of the whole question states that the fears then entertained
by Europeans in Egypt "so far from being exaggerated, . . . perhaps even fell short of the
danger which was actually impending[365]."

[Footnote 365: England in Egypt, p. 16. For details of the massacre and its preconcerted character,
sec Parl. Papers, Egypt, No. 4 (1884).]

The events at Alexandria and Tantah made armed intervention inevitable. Nothing could be hoped
for from Turkey. The Sultan's special envoy, Dervish Pasha, had arrived in Egypt only a few
days before the outbreak; and after that occurrence Abdul Hamid thought fit to send a decoration
to Arabi. Encouraged by the support of Turkey and by the well-known jealousies of the Powers,
the military party now openly prepared to defy Europe. They had some grounds for hope. Every
one knew that France was in a very cautious mood, having enough on her hands in Tunis and Algeria,
while her relations to England had rapidly cooled[366]. Germany, Russia, and Austria seemed
to be acting together according to an understanding arrived at by the three Emperors after
their meeting at Danzig in 1881; and Germany had begun that work of favouring the Sultan which
enabled her to supplant British influence at Constantinople. Accordingly, few persons, least
of all Arabi, believed that the Gladstone Cabinet would dare to act alone and strike a decisive
blow. But they counted wrongly. Gladstone's toleration in regard to foreign affairs was large-hearted,
but it had its limits. He now declared in Parliament that Arabi had thrown off the mask and
was evidently working to depose the Khedive and oust all Europeans from Egypt; England would
intervene to prevent this--if possible with the authority of Europe, with the support of France,
and the co-operation of Turkey; but, if necessary, alone[367].

[Footnote 366: For the reasons of de Freycinet's caution, see his work, ch. iii., especially
pp. 236 et seq.]

[Footnote 367: See, too, Gladstone's speech of July 25, 1882, in which he asserted that there
was not a shred of evidence to support Arabi's claim to be the leader of a national party;
also, his letter of July 14 to John Bright, quoted by Mr. Morley, Life of Gladstone, vol. iii.
pp. 84-85. Probably Gladstone was misinformed.]

Even this clear warning was lost on Arabi and his following. Believing that Britain was too
weak, and her Ministry too vacillating, to make good these threats, they proceeded to arm the
populace and strengthen the forts of Alexandria. Sir Beauchamp Seymour, now at the head of
a strong squadron, reported to London that these works were going on in a threatening manner,
and on July 6 sent a demand to Arabi that the operations should cease at once. To this Arabi
at once acceded. Nevertheless, the searchlight, when suddenly turned on, showed that work was
going on at night. A report of an Egyptian officer was afterwards found in one of the forts,
in which he complained of the use of the electric light by the English as distinctly discourteous.
It may here be noted that M. de Freycinet, in his jaundiced survey of British action at this
time, seeks to throw doubt on the resumption of work by Arabi's men. But Admiral Seymour's
reports leave no loophole for doubt. Finally, on July 10, the admiral demanded, not only the
cessation of hostile preparations, but the surrender of some of the forts into British hands.
The French fleet now left the harbour and steamed for Port Said. Most of the Europeans of Alexandria
had withdrawn to ships provided for them; and on the morrow, when the last of the twenty-four
hours of grace brought no submission, the British fleet opened fire at 7 A.M.

The ensuing action is of great interest as being one of the very few cases in modern warfare
where ships have successfully encountered modern forts. The seeming helplessness of the British
unarmoured ships before Cronstadt during the Crimean War, their failure before the forts of
Sevastopol, and the uselessness of the French navy during the war of 1870, had spread the notion
that warships could not overpower modern fortifications. Probably this impression lay at the
root of Arabi's defiance. He had some grounds for confidence. The British fleet consisted of
eight battleships (of which only the Inflexible and Alexandra were of great fighting power),
along with five unarmoured vessels. The forts mounted 33 rifled muzzle-loading guns, 3 rifled
breech-loaders, and 120 old smooth-bores. The advantage in gun-power lay with the ships, especially
as the sailors were by far the better marksmen. Yet so great is the superiority of forts over
ships that the engagement lasted five hours or more (7 A.M. till noon) before most of the forts
were silenced more or less completely. Fort Pharos continued to fire till 4 P.M. On the whole,
the Egyptian gunners stood manfully to their guns. Considering the weight of metal thrown against
the forts, namely, 1741 heavy projectiles and 1457 light, the damage done to them was not great,
only 27 cannon being silenced completely, and 5 temporarily. On the other hand, the ships were
hit only 75 times and lost only 6 killed and 27 wounded. The results show that the comparatively
distant cannonades of to-day, even with great guns, are far less deadly than the old sea-fights
when ships were locked yard-arm to yard-arm.

Had Admiral Seymour at once landed a force of marines and bluejackets, all the forts would
probably have been surrendered at once. For some reason not fully known, this was not done.
Spasmodic firing began again in the morning, but a truce was before long arranged, which proved
to be only a device for enabling Arabi and his troops to escape. The city, meanwhile, was the
scene of a furious outbreak against Europeans, in which some 400 or 500 persons perished. Damage,
afterwards assessed at £7,000,000, was done by fire and pillage. It was not till the 14th that
the admiral, after receiving reinforcements, felt able to send troops into the city, when a
few severe examples cowed the plunderers and restored order. The Khedive, who had shut himself
up in his palace at Ramleh, now came back to the seaport under the escort of a British force,
and thenceforth remained virtually, though not in name, under British protection.

The bombardment of Alexandria brought about the resignation of that sturdy Quaker, and friend
of peace, Mr. John Bright from the Gladstone Ministry; but everything tends to show (as even
M. de Freycinet admits) that the crisis took Ministers by surprise. Nothing was ready at home
for an important campaign; and it would seem that hostilities resulted, firstly, from the violence
of Arabi's supporters in Alexandria, and, secondly, from their persistence in warlike preparations
which might have endangered the safety of Admiral Seymour's fleet. The situation was becoming
like that of 1807 at the Dardanelles, when the Turks gave smooth promises to Admiral Duckworth,
all the time strengthening their forts, with very disagreeable results. Probably the analogy
of 1807, together with the proven perfidy of Arabi's men, brought on hostilities, which the
British Ministers up to the end were anxious to avoid.

In any case, the die was now cast, and England entered questioningly on a task, the magnitude
and difficulty of which no one could then foresee. She entered on it alone, and that, too,
though the Gladstone Ministry had made pressing overtures for the help of France, at any rate
as regarded the protection of the Suez Canal. To this extent, de Freycinet and his colleagues
were prepared to lend their assistance; but, despite Gambetta's urgent appeal for common action
with England at that point, the Chamber of Deputies still remained in a cautiously negative
mood, and to that frame of mind M. Clémenceau added strength by a speech ending with a glorification
of prudence. "Europe," he said, "is covered with soldiers; every one is in a state of expectation;
all the Power are reserving their future liberty of action; do you reserve the liberty of action
of France." The restricted co-operation with England which the Cabinet recommended found favour
with only seventy-five deputies; and, when face to face with a large hostile majority, de Freycinet
and his colleagues resigned (July 29, 1882)[368]. Prudence, fear of the newly-formed Triple
Alliance, or jealousy of England, drew France aside from the path to which her greatest captains,
thinkers, and engineers had beckoned her in time past. Whatever the predominant motive may
have been, it altered the course of history in the valley of the Nile.

[Footnote 368: De Freycinet, op, cit. pp. 311-312.]

After the refusal of France to co-operate with England even to the smallest extent, the Conference
of the Powers became a nullity, and its sessions ceased despite the lack of any formal adjournment[369].
Here, as on so many other occasions, the Concert of the Powers displayed its weakness; and
there can be no doubt that the Sultan and Arabi counted on that weakness in playing the dangerous
game which brought matters to the test of the sword. The jealousies of the Powers now stood
fully revealed. Russia entered a vigorous protest against England's action at Alexandria; Italy
evinced great annoyance, and at once repelled a British proposal for her co-operation; Germany
also showed much resentment, and turned the situation to profitable account by substituting
her influence for that of Britain in the counsels of the Porte. The Sultan, thwarted in the
midst of his tortuous intrigues for a great Moslem revival, showed his spleen and his diplomatic
skill by loftily protesting against Britain's violation of international law, and thereafter
by refusing (August 1) to proclaim Arabi a rebel against the Khedive's authority. The essential
timidity of Abdul Hamid's nature in presence of superior force was shown by a subsequent change
of front. On hearing of British successes, he placed Arabi under the ban (September 8).

[Footnote 369: For its proceedings, see Parl. Papers, Egypt, 1882 (Conference on Egyptian Affairs).]

Meanwhile, the British expedition of some 10,000 men, despatched to Egypt under the command
of Sir Garnet Wolseley made as though it would attack Arabi from Alexandria as a base. But
on nearing that port at nightfall it steered about and occupied Port Said (August 15). Kantara
and Ismailia, on the canal, were speedily seized; and the Seaforth Highlanders by a rapid march
occupied Chalouf and prevented the cutting of the freshwater canal by the rebels. Thenceforth
the little army had the advantage of marching near fresh water, and by a route on which Arabi
was not at first expecting them. Sir Garnet Wolseley's movements were of that quick and decisive
order which counts for so much against orientals. A sharp action at Tel-el-Mahuta obliged Arabi's
forces, some 10,000 strong, to abandon entrenchments thrown up at that point (August 24).

Four days later there was desperate fighting at Kassassin Lock on the freshwater canal. There
the Egyptians flung themselves in large numbers against a small force sent forward under General
Graham to guard that important point. The assailants fought with the recklessness begotten
by the proclamation of a holy war against infidels, and for some time the issue remained in
doubt. At length, about sundown, three squadrons of the Household Cavalry, and the 7th Dragoon
Guards, together with four light guns, were hastily sent forward from the main body in the
rear to clinch the affair. General Drury Lowe wheeled this little force round the left flank
of the enemy, and, coming up unperceived in the gathering darkness, charged with such fury
as to scatter the hostile array in instant rout[370]. The enemy fell back on the entrenchments
at Tel-el-Kebir, while the whole British force (including a division from India) concentrated
at Kassassin, 17,400 strong, with 61 guns and 6 Gatlings.

[Footnote 370: History of the Campaign in Egypt (War Office), by Col. J.F. Maurice, pp. 62-65.]

The final action took place on September 13, at Tel-el-Kebir. There Arabi had thrown up a double
line of earthworks of some strength, covering about four miles, and lay with a force that has
been estimated at 20,000 to 25,000 regulars and 7000 irregulars. Had the assailants marched
across the desert and attacked these works by day, they must have sustained heavy losses. Sir
Garnet therefore determined to try the effect of a surprise at dawn, and moved his men forward
after sunset of the 12th until they came within striking distance of the works. After a short
rest they resumed their advance shortly before the time when the first streaks of dawn would
appear on the eastern sky. At about 500 yards from the works, the advance was dimly silhouetted
against the paling orient. Shortly before five o'clock, an Egyptian rifle rang out a sharp
warning, and forthwith the entrenchments spurted forth smoke and flame. At once the British
answered by a cheer and a rush over the intervening ground, each regiment eager to be the first
to ply the bayonet. The Highlanders, under the command of General Graham, were leading on the
left, and therefore won in this race for glory; but on all sides the invaders poured almost
simultaneously over the works. For several minutes there was sharp fighting on the parapet;
but the British were not to be denied, and drove before them the defenders as a kind of living
screen against the fire that came from the second entrenchments; these they carried also, and
thrust the whole mass out into the desert[371]. There hundreds of them fell under the sabres
of the British cavalry which swept down from the northern end of the lines; but the pursuit
was neither prolonged nor sanguinary. Sir Garnet Wolseley was satisfied with the feat of dissolving
Arabi's army into an armed or unarmed rabble by a single sharp blow, and now kept horses and
men for further eventualities.

[Footnote 371: Life, Letters, and Diaries of General Sir Gerald Graham (1901). J.F. Maurice,
op. cit. pp. 84-95.]

By one of those flashes of intuition that mark the born leader of men, the British commander
perceived that the whole war might be ended if a force of cavalry pushed on to Cairo and demanded
the surrender of its citadel at the moment when the news of the disaster at Tel-el-Kebir unmanned
its defenders. The conception must rank as one of the most daring recorded in the annals of
war. In the ancient capital of Egypt there were more than 300,000 Moslems, lately aroused to
dangerous heights of fanaticism by the proclamation of a "holy war" against infidels. Its great
citadel, towering some 250 feet above the city, might seem to bid defiance to all the horsemen
of the British army. Finally, Arabi had repaired thither in order to inspire vigour into a
garrison numbering some 10,000 men. Nevertheless, Wolseley counted on the moral effect of his
victory to level the ramparts of the citadel and to abase the mushroom growth of Arabi's pride.

His surmise was more than justified by events. While his Indian contingent pushed on to occupy
Zagazig, Sir Drury Lowe, with a force mustering fewer than 500 sabres, pressed towards Cairo
by a desert road in order to summon it on the morrow. After halting at Belbeïs the troopers
gave rein to their steeds; and a ride of nearly 40 miles brought them to the city about sundown.
Rumour magnified their numbers; while the fatalism that used to nerve the Moslem in his great
days now predisposed him to bow the knee and mutter Kismet at the advent of the seemingly predestined
masters of Egypt. To this small, wearied, but lordly band Cairo surrendered, and Arabi himself
handed over his sword. On the following day the infantry came up and made good this precarious
conquest.

In presence of this startling triumph the Press of the Continent sought to find grounds for
the belief that Arabi, and Cairo as well, had been secretly bought over by British gold. It
is somewhat surprising to find M. de Freycinet[372] repeating to-day this piece of spiteful
silliness, which might with as much reason be used to explain away the victories of Clive and
Coote, Outram and Havelock. The slanders of continental writers themselves stand in need of
explanation. It is to be found in their annoyance at discovering that England had an army which
could carry through a difficult campaign to a speedy and triumphant conclusion. Their typical
attitude had been that of Bismarck, namely, of exultation at her difficulties and of hope of
her discomfiture. Now their tone changed to one of righteous indignation at the irregularity
of her conduct in acting on behalf of Europe without any mandate from the Powers, and in using
the Suez Canal as a base of operations.

[Footnote 372: Op. cit. p. 316.]

In this latter respect Britain's conduct was certainly open to criticism[373]. On the other
hand, it is doubtful whether Arabi would have provoked her to action had he not been tacitly
encouraged by the other Powers, which, while professing their wish to see order restored in
Egypt, in most cases secretly sought to increase her difficulties in undertaking that task.
As for the Sultan, he had now trimmed his sails by declaring Arabi a rebel to the Khedive's
authority; and in due course that officer was tried, found guilty, and exiled to Ceylon early
in 1883. The conduct of France, Germany, and Russia, if we may judge by the tone of their officially
inspired Press, was scarcely more straightforward, and was certainly less discreet. On all
sides there were diatribes against Britain's high-handed and lawless behaviour, and some German
papers affected to believe that Hamburg might next be chosen for bombardment by the British
fleet. These outbursts, in the case of Germany, may have been due to Bismarck's desire to please
Russia, and secondarily France, in all possible ways. It is doubtful whether he gained this
end. Certainly he and his underlings in the Press widened the gulf that now separated the two
great Teutonic peoples.

[Footnote 373: It is said, however, that Arabi had warned M. de Lesseps that "the defence of
Egypt requires the temporary destruction of the Canal" (Traill, England, Egypt, and the Sudan,
p. 57). The status of the Canal was defined in 1885. Ibid. p. 59.]

The annoyance of France was more natural. She had made the Suez Canal, and had participated
in the Dual Control; but her mistake in not sharing in the work of restoring order was irreparable.
Every one in Egypt saw that the control of that country must rest with the Power which had
swept away Arabi's Government and re-established the fallen authority of the Khedive. A few
persons in England, even including one member of the Gladstone Administration, Mr. Courtney,
urged a speedy withdrawal; but the Cabinet, which had been unwillingly but irresistibly drawn
thus far by the force of circumstances, could not leave Egypt a prey to anarchy; and, clearly,
the hand that repressed anarchy ruled the country for the time being. It is significant that
on April 4, 1883, more than 2600 Europeans in Egypt presented a petition begging that the British
occupation might be permanent[374].

[Footnote 374: Sir A. Milner, England in Egypt, p. 31.]

Mr. Gladstone, however, and others of his Cabinet, had declared that it would be only temporary,
and would, in fact, last only so long as to enable order and prosperity to grow up under the
shadow of new and better institutions. These pledges were given with all sincerity, and the
Prime Minister and his colleagues evidently wished to be relieved from what was to them a disagreeable
burden. The French in Egypt, of course, fastened on these promises, and one of their newspapers,
the Journal Egyptien, printed them every day at the head of its front columns[375]. Mr. Gladstone,
who sought above all things for a friendly understanding with France, keenly felt, even to
the end of his career, that the continued occupation of Egypt hindered that most desirable
consummation. He was undoubtedly right. The irregularity of England's action in Egypt hampered
her international relations at many points; and it may be assigned as one of the causes that
brought France into alliance with Russia.

[Footnote 375: H.F. Wood, Egypt under the British, p. 59 (1896).]

What, then, hindered the fulfilment of Mr. Gladstone's pledges? In the first place, the dog-in-the-manger
policy of French officials and publicists increased the difficulties of the British administrators
who now, in the character of advisers of the Khedive, really guided him and controlled his
Ministers. The scheme of administration adopted was in the main that advised by Lord Dufferin
in his capacity of Special Envoy. The details, however, are too wide and complex to be set
forth here. So also are those of the disputes between our officials and those of France. Suffice
it to say that by shutting up the funds of the "Caisse de la Dette," the French administrators
of that great reserve fund hoped to make Britain's position untenable and hasten her evacuation.
In point of fact, these and countless other pin-pricks delayed Egypt's recovery and furnished
a good reason why Britain should not withdraw[376].

[Footnote 376: The reader should consult for full details Sir A. Milner, England in Egypt (1892);
Sir D.M. Wallace, The Egyptian Question (1883), especially chaps, xi.-xiii.; and A. Silva White,
The Expansion of Egypt (1899), the best account of the Anglo-Egyptian administration, with
valuable Appendices on the "Caisse," etc.

A far more favourable light is thrown on the conduct of Arabi and his partisans by Mr. A.M.
Broadley in his work How We Defended Arabi (1884).]

But above and beyond these administrative details, there was one all-compelling cause, the
war-cloud that now threatened the land of the Pharaohs from that home of savagery and fanaticism,
the Sudan.

NOTE TO THE SECOND EDITION

For new light on the nationalist movement in Egypt and the part which Arabi played in it, the
reader should consult How we defended Arabi, by A.M. Broadley (London, 1884). The same writer
in his Tunis, Past and Present (2 vols. 1882) has thrown much light on the Tunis Question and
on the Pan-Islamic movement in North Africa.

CHAPTER XVI

GORDON AND THE SUDAN

     What were my ideas in coming out? They were these: Agreed
     abandonment of Sudan, but extricate the garrisons; and these
     were the instructions of the Government (Gordon's Journal,
     October 8, 1885).

It is one of the peculiarities of the Moslem faith that any time of revival is apt to be accompanied
by warlike fervour somewhat like that which enabled its early votaries to sweep over half of
the known world in a single generation. This militant creed becomes dangerous when it personifies
itself in a holy man who can make good his claim to be received as a successor of the Prophet.
Such a man had recently appeared in the Sudan. It is doubtful whether Mohammed Ahmed was a
genuine believer in his own extravagant claims, or whether he adopted them in order to wreak
revenge on Rauf Pasha, the Egyptian Governor of the Sudan, for an insult inflicted by one of
his underlings. In May 1881, while living near the island of Abba in the Nile, he put forward
his claim to be the Messiah or Prophet, foretold by the founder of that creed. Retiring with
some disciples to that island, he gained fame by his fervour and asceticism. His followers
named him "El Mahdi," the leader, but his claims were scouted by the Ulemas of Khartum, Cairo,
and Constantinople, on the ground that the Messiah of the Moslems was to arise in the East.
Nevertheless, while the British were crushing Arabi's movement, the Mahdi stirred the Sudan
to its depths, and speedily shook the Egyptian rule to its base[377].

[Footnote 377: See the Report of the Intelligence Department of the War Office, printed in
The Journals of Major-General C.G. Gordon at Khartum, Appendix to Bk. iv.]

There was every reason to fear a speedy collapse. In the years 1874-76 the Province of the
White Nile had known the benefits of just and tactful rule under that born leader of men, Colonel
Gordon; and in the three following years, as Governor-General of the Sudan, he gained greater
powers, which he felt to be needful for the suppression of the slave-trade and other evils.
Ill-health and underhand opposition of various kinds caused him to resign his post in 1879.
Then, to the disgust of all, the Khedive named as his successor Rauf Pasha, whom Gordon had
recently dismissed for maladministration of the Province of Harrar, on the borders of Abyssinia[378].
Thus the Sudan, after experiencing the benefits of a just and able government, reeled back
into the bad old condition, at the time when the Mahdi was becoming a power in the land. No
help was forthcoming from Egypt in the summer of 1882, and the Mahdi's revolt rapidly made
headway even despite several checks from the Egyptian troops.

[Footnote 378: See Gordon's letter of April 1880, quoted in the Introduction to The Journals
of Major-General C.G. Gordon at Khartum (1885), p. xvii.]

Possibly, if Mr. Gladstone and his colleagues had decided to crush it in that autumn, the task
might have been easy. But, far from doing so, they sought to dissuade the Khedive from attempting
to hold the most disturbed districts, those of Kordofan and Darfur, beyond Khartum. This might
have been the best course, if the evacuation could have been followed at once and without risk
of disaster at the hands of the fanatics. But Tewfik willed otherwise. Against the advice of
Lord Dufferin, he sought to reconquer the Sudan, and that, too, by wholly insufficient forces.
The result was a series of disasters, culminating in the extermination of Hicks Pasha's Egyptian
force by the Mahdi's followers near El Obeid, the capital of Kordofan (November 5, 1883).

The details of the disaster are not fully known. Hicks Pasha was appointed, on August 20, 1883,
by the Khedive to command the expedition into that province. He set out from Omdurman on September
9, with 10,000 men, 4 Krupp guns and 16 light guns, 500 horses and 5500 camels. His last despatch,
dated October 3, showed that the force had been greatly weakened by want of water and provisions,
and most of all by the spell cast on the troops by the Mahdi's claim to invincibility. Nevertheless,
Hicks checked the rebels in two or three encounters, but, according to the tale of one of the
few survivors, a camel-driver, the force finally succumbed to a fierce charge on the Egyptian
square at the close of an exhausting march, prolonged by the treachery of native guides. Nearly
the whole force was put to the sword. Hicks Pasha perished, along with five British and four
German officers, and many Egyptians of note. The adventurous newspaper correspondents, O'Donovan
and Vizetelly, also met their doom (November 5, 1883)[379].

[Footnote 379: Gordon's Journals, pp. 347-351; also Parl. Papers, Egypt, No. 12 (1884), pp.
85 and 127-131 for another account. See, too, Sir F.R. Wingate's Mahdism, chaps. i.-iii., for
the rise of the Mahdi and his triumph over Hicks.]

This catastrophe decided the history of the Sudan for many years. The British Government was
in no respect responsible for the appointment of General Hicks to the Kordofan command. Lord
Dufferin and Sir E. Malet had strongly urged the Khedive to abandon Kordofan and Darfur; but
it would seem that the desire of the governing class at Cairo to have a hand in the Sudan administration
overbore these wise remonstrances, and hence the disaster near El Obeid with its long train
of evil consequences[380]. It was speedily followed by another reverse at Tokar not far from
Suakim, where the slave-raiders and tribesmen of the Red Sea coast exterminated another force
under the command of Captain Moncrieff.

[Footnote 380: J. Morley, Life of Gladstone, vol. iii. p. 146; Sir A. Lyall, Life of Lord Dufferin,
vol. ii. chap. ii.]

The Gladstone Ministry and the British advisers of the Khedive, among whom was Sir Evelyn Baring
(the present Lord Cromer), again urged the entire evacuation of the Sudan, and the limitation
of Egyptian authority to the strong position of the First Cataract at Assuan. This policy then
received the entire approval of the man who was to be alike the hero and the martyr of that
enterprise[381]. But how were the Egyptian garrisons to be withdrawn? It was a point of honour
not to let them be slaughtered or enslaved by the cruel fanatics of the Mahdi. Yet under the
lead of Egyptian officers they would almost certainly suffer one of these fates. A way of escape
was suggested--by a London evening newspaper in the first instance. The name of Gordon was
renowned for justice and hardihood all through the Sudan. Let this knight-errant be sent--so
said this Mentor of the Press--and his strange power over men would accomplish the impossible.
The proposal carried conviction everywhere, and Lord Granville, who generally followed any
strong lead, sent for the General.

[Footnote 381: Morley, Life of Gladstone, vol. iii. p. 147.]

Charles George Gordon, born at Woolwich in 1833, was the scion of a staunch race of Scottish
fighters. His great-grandfather served under Cope at Prestonpans; his grandfather fought in
Boscawen's expedition at Louisburg and under Wolfe at Quebec. His father attained the rank
of Lieutenant-General. From his mother, too, he derived qualities of self-reliance and endurance
of no mean order. Despite the fact that she had eleven children, and that three of her sons
were out at the Crimea, she is said never to have quailed during that dark time. Of these sons,
Charles George was serving in the Engineers; he showed at his first contact with war an aptitude
and resource which won the admiration of all. "We used always to send him out to find what
new move the Russians were making"--such was the testimony of one of his superior officers.
Of his subsequent duties in delimiting the new Bessarabian frontier and his miraculous career
in China we cannot speak in detail. By the consent of all, it was his soldierly spirit that
helped to save that Empire from anarchy at the hands of the Taeping rebels, whose movement
presented a strange medley of perverted Christianity, communism, and freebooting. There it
was that his magnetic influence over men first had free play. Though he was only thirty years
of age, his fine physique, dauntless daring, and the spirit of unquestionable authority that
looked out from his kindly eyes, gained speedy control over the motley set of officers and
the Chinese rank and file--half of them ex-rebels--that formed the nucleus of the "ever victorious
army." What wonder that he was thenceforth known as "Chinese Gordon"?

In the years 1865-71, which he spent at Gravesend in supervising the construction of the new
forts at the mouth of the river, the religious and philanthropic side of his character found
free play. His biographer, Mr. Hake, tells of his interest in the poor and suffering, and,
above all, in friendless boys, who came to idolise his manly yet sympathetic nature. Called
thereafter by the Khedive to succeed Sir Samuel Baker in the Governorship of the Sudan, he
grappled earnestly with the fearful difficulties that beset all who have attempted to put down
the slave-trade in its chief seat of activity. Later on he expressed the belief that "the Sudan
is a useless possession, ever was so, ever will be so." These words, and certain episodes in
his official career in India and in Cape Colony, revealed the weak side of a singularly noble
nature. Occasionally he was hasty and impulsive in his decisions, and the pride of his race
would then flash forth. During his cadetship at Woolwich he was rebuked for incompetence, and
told that he would never make an officer. At once he tore the epaulets from his shoulders and
flung them at his superior's feet. A certain impatience of control characterised him throughout
life. No man was ever more chivalrous, more conscientious, more devoted, or abler in the management
of inferiors; but his abilities lay rather in the direction of swift intuitions and prompt
achievement than in sound judgment and plodding toil. In short, his qualities were those of
a knight-errant, not those of a statesman. The imperious calls of conscience and of instinct
endowed him with powers uniquely fitted to attract and enthral simple straightforward natures,
and to sway orientals at his will. But the empire of conscience, instinct, and will-power consorts
but ill with those diplomatic gifts of effecting a timely compromise which go far to make for
success in life. This was at once the strength and the weakness of Gordon's being. In the midst
of a blasé, sceptical age, his personality stood forth, God-fearing as that of a Covenanter,
romantic as that of a Coeur de Lion, tender as that of a Florence Nightingale. In truth, it
appealed to all that is most elemental in man.

At that time Gordon was charged by the King of the Belgians to proceed to the Congo River to
put down the slave-trade. Imagination will persist in wondering what might have been the result
if he had carried out this much-needed duty. Possibly he might have acquired such an influence
as to direct the "Congo Free State" to courses far other than those to which it has come. He
himself discerned the greatness of the opportunity.

The die was now cast against the Congo and for the Nile. Gordon had a
brief interview with four members of the Cabinet--Lords Granville,
Hartington, Northbrooke, and Sir Charles Dilke,--Mr. Gladstone was
absent at Hawarden; and they forthwith decided that he should go to the
Upper Nile. They said, "Yes," and it was over, and I left
     at 8 P.M. for Calais.

Before seeing the Ministers, Gordon had a long interview with Lord Wolseley, who in the previous
autumn had been named Baron Wolseley of Cairo. That conversation is also unknown to us, but
obviously it must have influenced Gordon's impressions as to the scope of the duties sketched
for him by the Cabinet. We turn, then, to the "Instructions to General Gordon," drawn up by
the Ministry on Jan. 18, 1884. He was also to report on the best mode of effecting the evacuation
of the interior of the Sudan and on measures that might be taken to counteract the consequent
spread of the slave-trade. He was to be under the instructions of H.M.'s Consul-General at
Cairo (Sir Evelyn Baring).

[Footnote 382: Parl. Papers, Egypt, No. 2 (1884), p. 3.]

After receiving these instructions, Gordon started at once for Egypt, accompanied by Colonel
Stewart. At Cairo he had an interview with Sir Evelyn Baring, and was appointed by the Khedive
Governor-General of the Sudan. The firman of Jan. 26 contained these words: "We trust that
you will carry out our good intentions for the establishment of justice and order, and that
you will assure the peace and prosperity of the people of the Sudan by maintaining the security
of the roads," etc. It contained not a word about the evacuation of the Sudan, nor did the
Khedive's proclamation of the same date to the Sudanese. After completing this task he was
to "take the necessary steps for establishing an organised Government in the different provinces
of the Sudan for the maintenance of order and the cessation of all disasters and incitement
to revolt[383]." How Gordon, after sending away all the troops, was to pacify that enormous
territory His Highness did not explain.

[Footnote 383: Parl. Papers, Egypt, No. 12 (1884), pp. 27, 28.]

There is almost as much ambiguity in the "further instructions" which Sir Evelyn Baring drew
up on January 25 at Cairo. After stating that the British and Egyptian Governments had agreed
on the necessity of "evacuating" the Sudan, he noted the fact that Gordon approved of it and
thought it should on no account be changed; the despatch proceeds:--

     You consider that it may take a few months to carry it out
     with safety. You are further of opinion that "the restoration
     of the country should be made to the different petty Sultans
     who existed at the time of Mohammed Ali's conquest, and whose
     families still exist"; and that an endeavour should be made
     to form a confederation of those Sultans. In this view the
     Egyptian Government entirely concur. It will of course be
     fully understood that the Egyptian troops are not to be kept
     in the Sudan merely with a view to consolidating the powers
     of the new rulers of the country. But the Egyptian Government
     has the fullest confidence in your judgment, your knowledge
     of the country, and your comprehension of the general line of
     policy to be pursued. You are therefore given full
     discretionary power to retain the troops for such reasonable
     period as you may think necessary, in order that the
     abandonment of the country may be accomplished with the least
     possible risk to life and property. A credit of £100,000 has
     been opened for you at the Finance Department[384]. . . .

[Footnote 384: Parl. Papers, Egypt, No. 6 (1884), p. 3.]

In themselves these instructions were not wholly clear. An officer who is allowed to use troops
for the settlement or pacification of a vast tract of country can hardly be the agent of a
policy of mere "abandonment." Neither Gordon nor Baring seems at that time to have felt the
incongruity of the two sets of duties, but before long it flashed across Gordon's mind. At
Abu Hammed, when nearing Khartum, he telegraphed to Baring: "I would most earnestly beg that
evacuation but not abandonment be the programme to be followed." Or, as he phrased it, he wanted
Egypt to recognise her "moral control and suzerainty" over the Sudan[385]. This, of course,
was an extension of the programme to which he gave his assent at Cairo; it differed toto caelo
from the policy of abandonment laid down at London.

[Footnote 385: Egypt, No. 12 (1884), p. 133.]

Even now it is impossible to see why Ministers did not at once simplify the situation by a
clear statement of their orders to Gordon, not of course as Governor-General of the Sudan,
but as a British officer charged by them with a definite duty. At a later date they sought
to limit him to the restricted sphere sketched out at London; but then it was too late to bend
to their will a nature which, firm at all times, was hard as adamant when the voice of conscience
spoke within. Already it had spoken, and against "abandonment."

There were other confusing elements in the situation. Gordon believed that the "full discretionary
power" granted to him by Sir E. Baring was a promise binding on the British Government; and,
seeing that he was authorised to perform such other duties as Sir Evelyn Baring would communicate
to him, he was right. But Ministers do not seem to have understood that this implied an immense
widening of the original programme. Further, Sir Evelyn Baring used the terms "evacuation"
and "abandonment" as if they were synonymous; while in Gordon's view they were very different.
As we shall see, his nature, at once conscientious, vehement, and pertinacious, came to reject
the idea of abandonment as cowardly and therefore impossible.

Lastly, we may note that Gordon was left free to announce the forthcoming evacuation of the
Sudan, or not, as he judged best[386]. He decided to keep it secret. Had he kept it entirely
so for the present, he would have done well; but he is said to have divulged it to one or two
officials at Berber; if so, it was a very regrettable imprudence, which compromised the defence
of that town. But surely no man was ever charged with duties so complex and contradictory.
The qualities of Nestor, Ulysses, and Achilles combined in one mortal could scarcely have availed
to untie or sever that knot.

[Footnote 386: Ibid. p. 27.]

The first sharp collision between Gordon and the Home Government resulted from his urgent request
for the employment of Zebehr Pasha as the future ruler of the Sudan. A native of the Sudan,
this man had risen to great wealth and power by his energy and ambition, and figured as a kind
of king among the slave-raiders of the Upper Nile, until, for some offence against the Egyptian
Government, he was interned at Cairo. At that city Gordon had a conference with Zebehr in the
presence of Sir E. Baring, Nubar Pasha, and others. It was long and stormy, and gave the impression
of undying hatred felt by the slaver for the slave-liberator. This alone seemed to justify
the Gladstone Ministry in refusing Gordon's request[387]. Had Zebehr gone with Gordon, he would
certainly have betrayed him--so thought Sir Evelyn Baring.

[Footnote 387: Ibid. pp. 38-41.]

Setting out from Cairo and travelling quickly up the Nile, Gordon reached Khartum on February
18, and received an enthusiastic welcome from the discouraged populace. At once he publicly
burned all instruments of torture and records of old debts; so that his popularity overshadowed
that of the Mahdi. Again he urged the despatch of Zebehr as his "successor," after the withdrawal
of troops and civilians from the Sudan. But, as Sir Evelyn Baring said in forwarding Gordon's
request to Downing Street, it would be most dangerous to place them together at Khartum. It
should further be noted that Gordon's telegrams showed his belief that the Mahdi's power was
overrated, and that his advance in person on Khartum was most unlikely[388]. It is not surprising,
then, that Lord Granville telegraphed to Sir E. Baring on February 22 that the public opinion
of England "would not tolerate the appointment of Zebehr Pasha[389]." Already it had been offended
by Gordon's proclamation at Khartum that the Government would not interfere with the buying
and selling of slaves, though, as Sir Evelyn Baring pointed out, the re-establishment of slavery
resulted quite naturally from the policy of evacuation; and he now strongly urged that Gordon
should have "full liberty of action to complete the execution of his general plans[390]."

[Footnote 388: Egypt, No. 12 (1884), pp. 74, 82, 88.]

[Footnote 389: Ibid. p. 95.]

[Footnote 390: Ibid. p. 94.]

Here it is desirable to remember that the Mahdist movement was then confined almost entirely
to three chief districts--Kordofan, parts of the lands adjoining the Blue Nile, and the tribes
dwelling west and south-west of Suakim. For the present these last were the most dangerous.
Already they had overpowered and slaughtered two Egyptian forces; and on February 22 news reached
Cairo of the fall of Tokar before the valiant swordsmen of Osman Digna. But this was far away
from the Nile and did not endanger Gordon. British troops were landed at Suakim for the protection
of that port, but this step implied no change of policy respecting the Sudan. The slight impression
which two brilliant but costly victories, those of El Teb and Tamai, made on the warlike tribes
at the back of Suakim certainly showed the need of caution in pushing a force into the Sudan
when the fierce heats of summer were coming on[391].

[Footnote 391: For details of these battles, see Sir F. Wingate's Mahdism, chap, iii., and
Life of Sir Gerald Graham (1901).]

The first hint of any change of policy was made by Gordon in his despatch of Feb. 26, to Sir
E. Baring. After stating his regret at the refusal of the British Government to allow the despatch
of Zebehr as his successor, he used these remarkable words:--

You must remember that when evacuation is carried out, Mahdi will come down here, and, by agents,
will not let Egypt be quiet. Of course my duty is evacuation, and the best I can for establishing
a quiet government. The first I hope to accomplish. The second is a more difficult task, and
concerns Egypt more than me. If Egypt is to be quiet, Mahdi must be smashed up. Mahdi is most
unpopular, and with care and time could be smashed. Remember that once Khartum belongs to Mahdi,
the task will be far more difficult; yet you will, for safety of Egypt, execute it. If you
decide on smashing Mahdi, then send up another £100,000 and send up 200 Indian troops to Wady
Haifa, and send officer up to Dongola under pretence to look out quarters for troops. Leave
Suakim and Massowah alone. I repeat that evacuation is possible, but you will feel effect in
Egypt, and will be forced to enter into a far more serious affair in order to guard Egypt.
At present, it would be comparatively easy to destroy Mahdi[392].

[Footnote 392: Egypt, No. 12 (1884), p. 115.]

This statement arouses different opinions according to the point of view from which we regard
it. As a declaration of general policy it is no less sound than prophetic; as a despatch from
the Governor-General of the Sudan to the Egyptian Government, it claimed serious attention;
as a recommendation sent by a British officer to the Home Government, it was altogether beyond
his powers. Gordon was sent out for a distinct aim; he now proposed to subordinate that aim
to another far vaster aim which lay beyond his province. Nevertheless, Sir E. Baring on February
28, and on March 4, urged the Gladstone Ministry even now to accede to Gordon's request for
Zebehr Pasha as his successor, on the ground that some Government must be left in the Sudan,
and Zebehr was deemed at Cairo to be the only possible governor. Again the Home Government
refused, and thereby laid themselves under the moral obligation of suggesting an alternate
course. The only course suggested was to allow the despatch of a British force up the Nile,
if occasion seemed to demand it[393].

[Footnote 393: Egypt, No. 12 (1884) p. 119.]

In this connection it is well to remember that the question of Egypt and the Sudan was only
one of many that distracted the attention of Ministers. The events outside Suakim alone might
give them pause before they plunged into the Sudan; for that was the time when Russia was moving
on towards Afghanistan; and the agreement between the three Emperors imposed the need of caution
on a State as isolated and unpopular as England then was. In view of the designs of the German
colonial party (see Chapter XVII.) and the pressure of the Irish problem, the Gladstone Cabinet
was surely justified in refusing to undertake any new responsibilities, except on the most
urgent need. Vital interests were at stake in too many places to warrant a policy of Quixotic
adventure up the Nile.

Nevertheless, it is regrettable that Ministers took up on the Sudan problem a position that
was logically sound but futile in the sphere of action. Gordon's mission, according to Earl
Granville, was a peaceful one, and he inquired anxiously what progress had been made in the
withdrawal of the Egyptian garrisons and civilians. This question he put, even in the teeth
of Gordon's positive statement in a telegram of March 8:--

If you do not send Zebehr, you have no chance of getting the garrisons away; . . . Zebehr here
would be far more powerful than the Mahdi, and he would make short work of the Mahdi[394].

[Footnote 394: Ibid. p. 145.]

A week earlier Gordon had closed a telegram with the despairing words:--

I will do my best to carry out my instructions, but I feel conviction I shall be caught in
Khartum[395].

[Footnote 395: Ibid. p. 152.]

It is not surprising that Ministers were perplexed by Gordon's despatches, or that Baring telegraphed
to Khartum that he found it very difficult to understand what the General wanted. All who now
peruse his despatches must have the same feeling, mixed with one of regret that he ever weakened
his case by the proposal to "smash the Mahdi." Thenceforth the British Government obviously
felt some distrust of their envoy; and in this disturbing factor, and the duality of Gordon's
duties, we may discern one cause at least of the final disaster.

On March 11, the British Government refused either to allow the appointment of Zebehr, or to
send British or Indian troops from Suakim to Berber. Without wishing to force Gordon's hand
prematurely, Earl Granville urged the need of evacuation at as early a date as might be practicable.
On March 16, after hearing ominous news as to the spread of the Mahdi's power near to Khartum
and Berber, he advised the evacuation of the former city at the earliest possible date[396].
We may here note that the rebels began to close round it on March 18.

[Footnote 396: Ibid. pp. 158, 162, 166.]

Earl Granville's advice directly conflicted with Gordon's sense of honour. As he stated, on
or about March 20, the fidelity of the people of Khartum, while treachery was rife all around,
bound him not to leave them until he could do so "under a Government which would give them
some hope of peace." Here again his duty as Governor of the Sudan, or his extreme conscientiousness
as a man, held him to his post despite the express recommendations of the British Government.
His decision is ever to be regretted; but it redounds to his honour as a Christian and a soldier.
At bottom, the misunderstanding between him and the Cabinet rested on a divergent view of duty.
Gordon summed up his scruples in his telegram to Baring:--

You must see that you could not recall me, nor could I possibly obey, until the Cairo employés
get out from all the places. I have named men to different places, thus involving them with
the Mahdi. How could I look the world in the face if I abandoned them and fled? As a gentleman,
could you advise this course?

Earl Granville summed up his statement of the case in the words:--

The Mission of General Gordon, as originally designed and decided upon, was of a pacific nature
and in no way involved any movement of British forces. . . . Her Majesty's Government, bearing
in mind the exigencies of the occasion, concurred in these instructions [those of the Egyptian
Government], which virtually altered General Gordon's Mission from one of advice to that of
executing, or at least directing, the evacuation not only of Khartum but of the whole Sudan,
and they were willing that General Gordon should receive the very extended powers conferred
upon him by the Khedive to enable him to effect his difficult task. But they have throughout
joined in your anxiety that he should not expose himself to unnecessary personal risk, or place
himself in a position from which retreat would be difficult[397].

[Footnote 397: Egypt, No. 13 (1884), pp. 5, 6. Earl Granville made the same statement in his
despatch of April 23. See, too, The Life of Lord Granville.]

He then states that it is clear that Khartum can hold out for at least six months, if it is
attacked, and, seeing that the British occupation of Egypt was only "for a special and temporary
purpose," any expedition into the Sudan would be highly undesirable on general as well as diplomatic
grounds.

Both of these views of duty are intelligible as well as creditable to those who held them.
But the former view is that of a high-souled officer; the latter, that of a responsible and
much-tried Minister and diplomatist. They were wholly divergent, and divergence there spelt
disaster.

On hearing of the siege of Khartum, General Stephenson, then commanding the British forces
in Egypt, advised the immediate despatch of a brigade to Dongola--a step which would probably
have produced the best results; but that advice was overruled at London for the reasons stated
above. Ministers seem to have feared that Gordon might use the force for offensive purposes.
An Egyptian battalion was sent up the Nile to Korosko in the middle of May; but the "moral
effect" hoped for from that daring step vanished in face of a serious reverse. On May 19, the
important city of Berber was taken by the Mahdists[398].

[Footnote 398: Parl. Papers, Egypt, No. 25 (1884), pp. 129-131.]

Difficult as the removal of about 10,000 to 15,000[399] Egyptians from Khartum had always been--and
there were fifteen other garrisons to be rescued--it was now next to impossible, unless some
blow were dealt at the rebels in that neighbourhood. The only effective blow would be that
dealt by British or Indian troops, and this the Government refused, though Gordon again and
again pointed out that a small well-equipped force would do far more than a large force. "A
heavy, lumbering column, however strong, is nowhere in this land (so he wrote in his Journals
on September 24). . . . It is the country of the irregular, not of the regular." A month after
the capture of Berber a small British force left Siut, on the Nile, for Assuan; but this move,
which would have sent a thrill through the Sudan in March, had little effect at midsummer.
Even so, a prompt advance on Dongola and thence on Berber would probably have saved the situation
at the eleventh hour.

[Footnote 399: This is the number as estimated by Gordon in his Journals (Sept. 10, 1884), p. 6.]

But first the battle of the routes had to be fought out by the military authorities. As early
as April 25, the Government ordered General Stephenson to report on the best means of relieving
Gordon; after due consideration of this difficult problem he advised the despatch of 10,000
men to Berber from Suakim in the month of September. Preparations were actually begun at Suakim;
but in July experts began to favour the Nile route. In that month Lord Wolseley urged the immediate
despatch of a force up that river, and he promised that it should be at Dongola by the middle
of October. Even so, official hesitations hampered the enterprise, and it was not until July
29 that the decision seems to have been definitely formed in favour of the Nile route. Even
on August 8, Lord Hartington, then War Minister, stated that help would be sent to Gordon,
if it proved to be necessary[400]. On August 26, Lord Wolseley was appointed to the command
of the relief expedition gathering on the Nile, but not until October 5 did he reach Wady Haifa,
below the Second Cataract.

[Footnote 400: Morley, Life of Gladstone, vol. iii. p. 164.]

Meanwhile the web of fate was closing in on Khartum. In vain did Gordon seek to keep communications
open. All that he could do was to hold stoutly to that last bulwark of civilisation. There
were still some grounds for hope. The Mahdi remained in Kordofan, want of food preventing his
march northwards in force. Against his half-armed fanatics the city opposed a strong barrier.
"Crows' feet" scattered on the ground ended their mad rushes, and mines blew them into the
air by hundreds. Khartum seemed to defy those sons of the desert. The fire of the steamers
drove them from the banks and pulverised their forts[401]. The arsenal could turn out 50,000
Remington cartridges a week. There was every reason, then, for holding the city; for, as Gordon
jotted down in his Journal on September 17, if the Mahdi took Khartum, it would need a great
force to stay his propaganda. Here and there in those pathetic records of a life and death
struggle we catch a glimpse of Gordon's hope of saving Khartum for civilisation. More than
once he noted the ease of holding the Sudan from the Nile as base. With forts at the cataracts
and armed steamers patrolling the clear reaches of the river, the defence of the Sudan, he
believed, was by no means impossible[402].

[Footnote 401: For details, see Letters from Khartum, by Frank Power.]

[Footnote 402: Journal, p. 35, etc.]

On September 10 he succeeded in sending away down stream by steamer Colonel Stewart and Messrs.
Power and Herbin; but unfortunately they were wrecked and murdered by Arabs near Korti. The
advice and help of that gallant officer would have been of priceless service to the relieving
force. On September 10, when the Journals begin, Gordon was still hopeful of success, though
food was scarce.

At this time the rescue expedition was mustering at Wady Haifa, a point which the narrowing
gorge of the Nile marks out as one of the natural defences of its lower valley. There the British
and Egyptian Governments were collecting a force that soon amounted to 2570 British troops
and some Egyptians, who were to be used solely for transport and portage duties. A striking
tribute to the solidarity of the Empire was the presence of 350 Canadians, mostly French, whose
skill in working boats up rapids won admiration on all sides. The difficulties of the Nile
route were soon found to be far greater than had been imagined. Indeed many persons still believe
that the Suakim-Berber route would have been far preferable. The Nile was unfortunately lower
than usual, and many rapids, up which small steamers had been hauled when the waters ran deep
and full, were impassable even for the whale-boats on which the expedition depended for its
progress as far as Korti. Many a time all the boats had to be hauled up the banks and carried
by Canadians or Egyptians to the next clear reaches. The letters written by Gordon in 1877
in a more favourable season were now found to be misleading, and in part led to the miscalculation
of time which was to prove so disastrous.

Another untoward fact was the refusal of the authorities to push on the construction of the
railway above Sarras. It had been completed from Wady Haifa up to that point, and much work
had been done on it for about fifteen miles further. But, either from lack of the necessary
funds, or because the line could not be completed in time, the construction was stopped by
Lord Wolseley's orders early in October. Consequently much time was lost in dragging the boats
and their stores up or around the difficult rapids above Semneh[403].

[Footnote 403: See Gordon's letters of the year 1877, quoted in the Appendix of A. Macdonald's
Too Late for Gordon and Khartum (1887); also chap. vi. of that book.]

Meanwhile a large quantity of stores had been collected at Dongola and Debbeh; numbers of boats
were also there, so that a swift advance of a vanguard thence by the calmer reaches farther
up the Nile seemed to offer many chances of success. It was in accord with Gordon's advice
to act swiftly with small columns; but, for some reason, the plan was not acted on, though
Colonel Kitchener, who had collected those stores, recommended it. Another argument for speedy
action was the arrival on November 14, of a letter from Gordon, dated ten days before, in which
he stated that he could hold out for forty days, but would find it hard to do so any longer.

The advance of the main body to Dongola was very slow, despite the heroic toil of all concerned.
We now know that up to the middle of September the Gladstone Ministry cherished the belief
that the force need not advance beyond Dongola. Their optimism was once again at fault. The
Mahdists were pressing on the siege of Khartum, and had overpowered and slaughtered faithful
tribes farther down the river. Such was the news sent by Gordon and received by Lord Wolseley
on December 31 at Korti. The "secret and confidential" part of Gordon's message was to the
effect that food was running short, and the rescuers must come quickly; they should come by
Metammeh or Berber, and inform Gordon by the messenger when they had taken Berber.

The last entries in Gordon's Journals or in that part which has survived, contain the following
statements:--

December 13. ". . . All that is absolutely necessary is for fifty of the expeditionary force
to get on board a steamer and come up to Halfeyeh, and thus let their presence be felt; this
is not asking much, but it must happen at once; or it will (as usual) be too late."

December 14. [After stating that he would send down a steamer with the "Journal" towards the
expeditionary force]. . . .

Owing to lack of transport and other difficulties, the vanguard of the relieving force could
not begin its march from the new Nile base, near Korti, until December 30. Thence the gallant
Sir Herbert Stewart led a picked column of men with 1800 camels across the desert towards Metammeh.
Lord Wolseley remained behind to guard the new base of operations. At Abu Klea wells, when
nearing the Nile, the column was assailed by a great mass of Arabs. They advanced in five columns,
each having a wedge-shaped head designed to pierce the British square. With a low murmuring
cry or chant they rushed on in admirable order, disregarding the heavy losses caused by the
steady fire of three faces of the square. Their leaders soon saw the weak place in the defence,
namely, at one of the rear corners, where belated skirmishers were still running in for shelter,
where also one of the guns jammed at the critical moment. One of their Emirs, calmly reciting
his prayers, rode in through the gap thus formed, and for ten minutes bayonet and spear plied
their deadly thrusts at close quarters. Thanks to the firmness of the British infantry, every
Arab that forced his way in perished; but in this mêlée there perished a stalwart soldier whom
England could ill spare, Colonel Burnaby, hero of the ride to Khiva. Lord Charles Beresford,
of the Naval Brigade, had a narrow escape while striving to set right the defective cannon.
In all we lost 65 killed and 60 wounded, a proportion which tells its own tale as to the fighting[404].

[Footnote 404: Sir C.W. Wilson, From Korti to Khartum, pp. 28-35; also see Hon. R. Talbot's
article on "Abu Klea," in the Nineteenth Century for January 1886.]

Two days later, while the force was beating off an attack of the Arabs near Metammeh, General
Stewart received a wound which proved to be mortal. The command now devolved on Sir Charles
Wilson of the Royal Engineers. After repelling the attacks of other Mahdists and making good
his position on the Nile, the new commander came into touch with Gordon's steamers, which arrived
there on the 21st, with 190 Sudanese. Again, however, the advance of other Arabs from Omdurman
caused a delay until a fortified camp or zariba could be formed. Wilson now had but 1322 unwounded
men; and he saw that the Mahdists were in far greater force than Lord Wolseley or General Gordon
had expected. Not until January 24 could the commander steam away southwards with 20 men of
the Sussex regiment and the 190 Sudanese soldiers on the two largest of Gordon's boats--his
"penny steamers" as he whimsically termed them.

The sequel is well known. After overcoming many difficulties caused by rocks and sandbanks,
after running the gauntlet of the Mahdist fire, this forlorn hope neared Khartum on the 28th,
only to find that the place had fallen. There was nothing for it but to put about and escape
while it was possible. Sir Charles Wilson has described the scene: "The masses of the enemy
with their fluttering banners near Khartum, the long rows of riflemen in the shelter-trenches
at Omdurman, the numerous groups of men on Tuti [Island], the bursting of shells, and the water
torn up by hundreds of bullets, and occasionally heavier shot, made an impression never to
be forgotten. Looking out over the stormy scene, it seemed almost impossible that we should
escape[405]."

[Footnote 405: Sir C.W. Wilson, op. cit. pp. 176-177.]

Weighed down by grief at the sad failure of all their strivings, the little band yet succeeded
in escaping to Metammeh. They afterwards found out that they were two days too late. The final
cause of the fall of Khartum is not fully known. The notion first current, that it was due
to treachery, has been discredited. Certainly the defenders were weakened by privation and
cowed by the Mahdist successes. The final attack was also given at a weak place in the long
line of defence; but whether the defenders all did their best, or were anxious to make terms
with the Mahdi, will probably never be known. The conduct of the assailants in at once firing
on the relieving force forbids the notion that they all along intended to get into Khartum
by treachery just before the approach of the steamers. Had that been their aim, they would
surely have added one crowning touch of guile, that of remaining quiet until Wilson and his
men landed at Khartum. The capture of the town would therefore seem to be due to force, not
to treachery.

All these speculations are dwarfed by the overwhelming fact that Gordon perished. Various versions
have been given of the manner of his death. One that rests on good authority is that he died
fighting. Another account, which seems more consistent with his character, is that, on hearing
of the enemy's rush into the town, he calmly remarked: "It is all finished; to-day Gordon will
be killed." In a short time a chief of the Baggara Arabs with a few others burst in and ordered
him to come to the Mahdi. Gordon refused. Thrice the Sheikh repeated the command. Thrice Gordon
calmly repeated his refusal. The sheikh then drew his sword and slashed at his shoulder. Gordon
still looked him steadily in the face. Thereupon the miscreant struck at his neck, cut off
his head, and carried it to the Mahdi[406].

[Footnote 406: A third account given by Bordeini Bey, a merchant of Khartum, differs in many
details. It is printed by Sir F.R. Wingate in his Mahdism, p. 171.]

Whatever may be the truth as to details, it is certain that no man ever looked death in the
face so long and so serenely as Gordon. For him life was but duty--duty to God and duty to
man. We may fitly apply to him the noble lines which Tennyson offered to the memory of another
steadfast soul--

     He, that ever following her commands,
     On with toil of heart and knees and hands,
     Thro' the long gorge to the far light has won
     His path upward, and prevail'd,
     Shall find the toppling crags of Duty scaled
     Are close upon the shining table-lands
     To which our God Himself is moon and sun.

NOTE TO THE SECOND EDITION

Shortly before the publication of this work, Lord Edmund Fitzmaurice published his Life of
Earl Granville, some of the details of which tend somewhat to modify the account of the relations
subsisting between the Earl and General Gordon. See too the issue of the Times of December
10, 1905 (Weekly Edition), for a correction of some of the statements, made in the Life of
Earl Granville, by Lord Cromer (Sir Evelyn Baring).]

CHAPTER XVII

THE CONQUEST OF THE SUDAN

     "The Sudan, if once proper communication was established,
     would not be difficult to govern. The only mode of improving
     the access to the Sudan, seeing the impoverished state of
     Egyptian finances, and the mode to do so without an outlay of
     more than £10,000, is by the Nile."--Gordon's Journals
     (Sept. 19, 1884).

It may seem that an account of the fall of Khartum is out of place in a volume which deals
only with formative events. But this is not so. The example of Gordon's heroism was of itself
a great incentive to action for the cause of settled government in that land. For that cause
he had given his life, and few Britons were altogether deaf to the mute appeal of that lonely
struggle. Then again, the immense increase to the Mahdi's power resulting from the capture
of the arsenal of Khartum constituted (as Gordon had prophesied) a serious danger to Egypt.
The continued presence of British troops at Wady Haifa, and that alone, saved the valley of
the Lower Nile from a desolating flood of savagery. This was a fact recognised by every one
at Cairo, even by the ultra-Gallic party. Egypt alone has rarely been able to hold at bay any
great downward movement of the tribes of Ethiopia and Nubia; and the danger was never so great
as in and after 1885. The Mahdi's proclamations to the faithful now swelled with inconceivable
pride. To a wavering sheikh he sent the warning: "If you live long enough you will see the
troops of the Mahdi spreading over Europe, Rome, and Constantinople, after which there will
be nothing left for you but hell and damnation." The mistiness of the geography was hidden
by the vigour of the theology, and all the sceptics of Nubia hastened to accept the new prophet.

But his time of tyranny soon drew to a close. A woman of Khartum, who had been outraged by
him or his followers, determined to wreak her vengeance. On June 14, 1885, she succeeded in
giving him slow poison, which led him to his death amidst long-drawn agonies eight days later.
This ought to have been the death of Mahdism as well, but superstitions die hard in that land
of fanatics. The Mahdi's factotum, an able intriguer named Abdullah Taashi, had previously
gained from his master a written declaration that he was to be Khalifa after him; he now produced
this document, and fortified its influence by describing in great detail a vision in which
the ghost of the Mahdi handed him a sacred hair of inestimable worth, and an oblong-shaped
light which had come direct from the hands of the true Prophet, who had received it from the
hands of the angel Gabriel, to whom it had been entrusted by the Almighty.

This silly story was eagerly believed by the many, the questioning few also finding it well
to still their doubts in presence of death or torture. Piety and politics quickly worked hand
in hand to found the impostor's authority. A mosque began to rise over the tomb of the Mahdi
in his chosen capital, Omdurman; and his successor gained the support and the offerings of
the thousands of pilgrims who came to visit that wonder-working shrine. Such was the basis
of the new rule, which spread over the valley of the Upper and Middle Nile, and carried terror
nearly to the borders of Egypt[407].

[Footnote 407: Wingate, Mahdism, pp. 228-233.]

There law and order slowly took root under the shadow of the British administration, but Egypt
ceased to control the lands south of Wady Halfa. Mr. Gladstone announced that decision in the
House of Commons on May 11, 1885; and those who discover traces of the perfidy of Albion even
in the vacillations of her policy, maintain that that declaration was made with a view to an
eventual annexation of the Sudan by England. Their contention would be still more forcible
if they would prove that the Gladstone Ministry deliberately sacrificed Gordon at Khartum in
order to increase the Mahdi's power and leave Egypt open to his blows, thereby gaining one
more excuse for delaying the long-promised evacuation of the Nile delta by the redcoats. This
was the outcome of events; and those who argue backwards should have the courage of their convictions
and throw all the facts of the case into their syllogisms.

All who have any knowledge of the trend of British statesmanship in the eighties know perfectly
well that the occupation of Egypt was looked on as a serious incubus. The Salisbury Cabinet
sought to give effect to the promises of evacuation, and with that aim in view sent Sir Henry
Drummond Wolff to Constantinople in the year 1887 for the settlement of details. The year 1890
was ultimately fixed, provided that no danger should accrue to Egypt from such action, and
that Great Britain should "retain a treaty-right of intervention if at any time either the
internal peace or external security [of Egypt] should be seriously threatened." To this last
stipulation the Sultan seemed prepared to agree. Austria, Germany, and Italy notified their
complete agreement with it; but France and Russia refused to accept the British offer with
this proviso added, and even influenced the Sultan so that he too finally opposed it. Their
unfriendly action can only be attributed to a desire of humiliating Great Britain, and of depriving
her of any effective influence in the land which, at such loss of blood and treasure to herself,
she had saved from anarchy. Their opposition wrecked the proposal, and the whole position therefore
remained unchanged. British officials continued to administer Egypt in spite of opposition
from the French in all possible details connected with the vital question of finance[408].

[Footnote 408: England in Egypt, by Sir Alfred Milner, pp. 145-153.]

Other incidents that occurred during the years intervening between the fall of Gordon and the
despatch of Sir Herbert Kitchener's expedition need not detain us here[409]. The causes which
led to this new departure will be more fitly considered when we come to notice the Fashoda
incident; but we may here remark that they probably arose out of the French and Belgian schemes
for the partition of Central Africa. A desire to rescue the Sudan from a cruel and degrading
tyranny and to offer a tardy reparation to the memory of Gordon doubtless had some weight with
Ministers, as it undoubtedly had with the public. Indeed, it is doubtful whether the vox populi
would have allowed the expedition but for these more sentimental considerations. But, in the
view of the present writer, the Sudan expedition presents the best instance of foresight, resolve,
and able execution that is to be found in the recent annals of Britain.

[Footnote 409: For the Sudan in this period see Wingate's Mahdism; Slatin's Fire and Sword
in the Sudan; C. Neufeld's A Prisoner of the Khalifa.]

With the hour had come the man. During the dreary years of the "mark time" policy Colonel Kitchener
had gained renown as a determined fighter and able organiser. For some time he acted as governor
of Suakim, and showed his powers of command by gaining over some of the neighbouring tribes
and planning an attack on Osman Digna which came very near to success. Under him and many other
British officers the Egyptians and Sudanese gradually learnt confidence, and broke the spell
of invincibility that so long had rested with the Dervish hordes. On all sides the power of
the Khalifa was manifestly waning. The powerful Hadendowa tribe, near Suakim, which had given
so much trouble in 1883-84, became neutral. On the Nile also the Dervishes lost ground. The
Anglo-Egyptian troops wrested from them the post of Sarras, some thirty miles south of Wady
Halfa; and the efforts of the fanatics to capture the wells along desert routes far to the
east of the river were bloodily repulsed. As long as Sarras, Wady Halfa, and those wells were
firmly held, Egypt was safe.

At Gedaref, not very far from Omdurman, the Khalifa sustained a severe check from the Italians
(December 1893), who thereupon occupied the town of Kassala. It was not to be for any length
of time. In all their enterprises against the warlike Abyssinians they completely failed; and,
after sustaining the disastrous defeat of Adowa (March 1, 1896), the whole nation despaired
of reaping any benefit from the Hinterland of their colony around Massowah. The new Cabinet
at Rome resolved to withdraw from the districts around Kassala. On this news being communicated
to the British Ministers, they sent a request to Rome that the evacuation of Kassala might
be delayed until Anglo-Egyptian troops could be despatched to occupy that important station.
In this way the intended withdrawal of the Italians served to strengthen the resolve of the
British Government to help the Khedive in effecting the recovery of the Sudan[410].

[Footnote 410: See articles by Dr. E.J. Dillon and by Jules Simon in the Contemporary Review
for April and May 1896. Kassala was handed over to an Egyptian force under Colonel Parsons
in December 1897. The Egyptian Sudan, by H.S.L. Alford and W.D. Sword (1898).]

Preparations for the advance southwards went forward slowly and methodically through the summer
and autumn of 1896. For the present the operations were limited to the recapture of Dongola.
Sir Herbert Kitchener, then the Sirdar of the Egyptian army, was placed in command. Under him
were men who had proved their worth in years of desultory fighting against the Khalifa--Broadwood,
Hunter, Lewis, Macdonald, Maxwell, and many others. The training had been so long and severe
as to weed out all weaklings; and the Sirdar himself was the very incarnation of that stern
but salutary law of Nature which ordains the survival of the fittest. Scores of officers who
failed to come up to his requirements were quietly removed; and the result was seen in a finely
seasoned body of men, apt at all tasks, from staff duties to railway control. A comparison
of the Egyptian army that fought at Omdurman with that which thirteen years before ran away
screaming from a tenth of its number of Dervishes affords the most impressive lesson of modern
times of the triumph of mind over matter, of western fortitude over the weaker side of eastern
fatalism.

Such a building up of character as this implies could not take place in a month or two, for
the mind of Egyptians and Sudanese was at first an utter blank as to the need of prompt obedience
and still prompter action. An amusing case of their incredible slackness has been recorded.
On the first parade of a new camel transport corps before Lord Kitchener, the leading driver
stopped his animal, and therefore all that followed, immediately in front of the Sirdar, in
order to light a cigarette. It is needless to say, the cigarette was not lighted, but the would-be
smoker had his first lesson as to the superiority of the claims of collectivism over the whims
of the individual[411].

[Footnote 411: Sudan Campaign, 1896-97, by "An Officer," p. 20.]

As will be seen by reference to the map on page 477, the decision to limit the campaign to
Dongola involved the choice of the Nile route. If the blow had been aimed straight at Khartum,
the Suakim-Berber route, or even that by way of Kassala, would have had many advantages. Above
all, the river route held out the prospect of effective help from gunboats in the final attacks
on Berber, Omdurman, and Khartum. Seeing, however, that the greater part of the river's course
between Sarras and Dongola was broken up by rapids, the railway and the camel had at first
to perform nearly the whole of the transport duties for which the Nile was there unsuited.
The work of repairing the railway from Wady Haifa to Sarras, and thenceforth of constructing
it through rocky wastes, amidst constant risk of Dervish raids, called into play every faculty
of ingenuity, patience, and hardihood. But little by little the line crept on; the locomotives
carried the piles of food, stores, and ammunition further and further south, until on June
6, 1897, the first blow was dealt by the surprise and destruction of the Dervish force at Ferket.

There a halt was called; for news came in that an unprecedented rain-storm further north had
washed away the railway embankments from some of the gulleys. To make good the damage would
take thirty days, it was said. The Sirdar declared that the line must be ready in twelve days;
he went back to push on the work; in twelve days the line was ready. As an example of the varied
difficulties that were met and overcome, we may mention one. The work of putting together a
steamer, which had been brought up in sections, was stopped because an all-important nut had
been lost in transit. At once the Sirdar ordered horsemen to patrol the railway line--and the
nut was found. At last the vessel was ready; but on her trial trip she burst a cylinder and
had to be left behind[412]. Three small steamers and four gunboats were, however, available
for service in the middle of September, when the expedition moved on.

[Footnote 412: Ibid, p. 54.]

By this time the effective force numbered about 12,000 men. The Dervishes had little heart
for fighting to the north of Dongola; and even at that town the Dervishes made but a poor stand,
cowed as they were by the shells of the steamers and perplexed by the enveloping moves which
the Sirdar ordered; 700 were taken in Dongola, and the best 300 of these were incorporated
in the Sirdar's Sudanese regiments (Sept. 23, 1896).

Thus ended the first part of the expedition. Events had justified Gordon's statement that a
small well-equipped expedition could speedily overthrow the Mahdi--that is, in the days of
his comparative weakness before the capture of Khartum. The ease with which Dongola had been
taken and the comparative cheapness of the expedition predisposed the Egyptian Government and
the English public to view its extension southwards with less of disfavour.

Again the new stride forward had to be prepared for by careful preparations at the base. The
question of route also caused delay. It proved to be desirable to begin a new railway from
Wady Haifa across the desert to Abu Hamed at the northern tip of the deep bend which the Nile
makes below Berber. To drive a line into a desert in order to attack an enemy holding a good
position beyond seemed a piece of fool-hardiness. Nevertheless it was done, and at the average
rate of about 1 1/4 miles a day. In due course General Hunter pushed on and captured Abu Hamed,
the inhabitants of which showed little fight, being thoroughly weary of Dervish tyranny (August
6, 1897).

The arrival of gunboats after a long struggle with the rapids below Abu Hamed gave Hunter's
little force a much-needed support; and before he could advance further, news reached him that
the Dervishes had abandoned Berber. This step caused general surprise, and it has never been
fully explained. Some have averred that a panic seized the wives of the Dervish garrison at
Berber, and that when they rushed out of the town southwards their husbands followed them[413].
Certain it is that family feelings, which the Dervishes so readily outraged in others, played
a leading part in many of their movements. Whatever the cause may have been, the abandonment
of Berber greatly facilitated the work of Sir Herbert Kitchener. A strong force soon mustered
at that town, and the route to the Red Sea was reopened by a friendly arrangement with the
local sheikhs.

[Footnote 413: The Downfall of the Dervishes, by E.N. Bennett, M.A., p. 23.]

The next important barrier to the advance was the river Atbara. Here the Dervishes had a force
some 18,000 strong; but before long the Sirdar received timely reinforcement of a British brigade,
consisting of the Cameron and Seaforth Highlanders and the Lincolnshire and Warwickshire regiments,
under General Gatacre. Various considerations led the Sirdar to wait until he could strike
a telling blow. What was most to be dreaded was the adoption of Parthian tactics by the enemy.
Fortunately they had constructed a zariba (a camp surrounded by thorn-bushes) on the north
bank of the Atbara at a point twenty miles above its confluence with the Nile. At last, on
April 7, 1898, after trying to tempt the enemy to a battle in the open, the Sirdar moved forward
his 14,000 men in the hope of rushing the position soon after dawn of the following day, Good
Friday.

Before the first streaks of sunrise tinged the east, the assailants moved forward to a ridge
overlooking the Dervish position; but very few heads were seen above the thorny rampart in
the hollow opposite. It was judged to be too risky at once to charge a superior force that
clung to so strong a shelter; and for an hour and a half the British and Egyptian guns plied
the zariba in the hope of bringing the fanatics out to fight. Still they kept quiet; and their
fortitude during this time of carnage bore witness to their bravery and discipline[414].

[Footnote 414: The Egyptian Sudan: its Loss and Recovery, by H.S.L. Alford and W.D. Sword, ch. iv.]

At 7.45 the Sirdar ordered the advance. The British brigade held the left wing, the Camerons
leading in line formation, while behind them in columns were ranged the Warwicks, Seaforths,
and Lincolns, to add weight to the onset. Macdonald's and Maxwell's Egyptian and Sudanese Brigades,
drawn up in lines, formed the centre and right. Squadrons of Egyptian horse and a battery of
Maxims confronted the Dervish horsemen ranged along; the front of a dense scrub to the left
of the zariba. As the converging lines advanced, they were met by a terrific discharge; fortunately
it was aimed too high, or the loss would have been fearful. Then the Highlanders and Sudanese
rushed in, tore apart the thorn bushes and began a fierce fight at close quarters. From their
shelter trenches, pits, and huts the Dervishes poured in spasmodic volleys, or rushed at their
assailants with spear or bayonet. Even at this the fanatics of the desert were no match for
the seasoned troops of the Sirdar; and soon the beaten remnant streamed out through the scrub
or over the dry bed of the Atbara. About 2500 were killed, and 2000, including Mahmud, the
commander, were taken prisoners. Those who attempted to reach the fertile country round Kassala
were there hunted down or captured by the Egyptian garrison that lately had arrived there.

As on previous occasions, the Sirdar now waited some time until the railway could be brought
up to the points lately conquered. More gunboats were also constructed for the final stage
of the expedition. The dash at Omdurman and Khartum promised to tax to the uttermost the strength
of the army; but another brigade of British troops, commanded by Colonel Lyttelton, soon joined
the expedition, bringing its effective strength up to 23,000 men. General Gatacre received
the command of the British division. Ten gunboats, five transport steamers, and eight barges
promised to secure complete command of the river banks and to provide means for transporting
the army and all needful stores to the western bank of the Nile whenever the Sirdar judged
it to be advisable. The midsummer rains in the equatorial districts now made their influence
felt, and in the middle of August the Nile covered the sandbanks and rocks that made navigation
dangerous at the time of "low Nile." In the last week of that month all was ready for the long
and carefully prepared advance. The infantry travelled in steamers or barges as far as the
foot of the Shabluka, or Sixth Cataract, and this method of advance left the Dervishes in some
doubt by which bank the final advance would be made.

By an unexpected piece of good fortune the Dervishes had evacuated the rocky heights of the
Shabluka gorge. This was matter for rejoicing. There the Nile, which above and below is a mile
wide, narrows to a channel of little more than a hundred yards in width. It is the natural
defence of Khartum on the north. The strategy of the Khalifa was here again inexplicable, as
also was his abandonment of the ridge at Kerreri, some seven miles north of Omdurman. Mr. Bennett
Burleigh in his account of the campaign states that the Khalifa had repaired thither once a
year to give thanks for the triumph about to be gained there.

At last on September 1, on topping the Kerreri ridge, the invaders caught their first glimpse
of Omdurman. Already the gunboats were steaming up to the Mahdist capital to throw in their
first shells. They speedily dismounted several guns, and one of the shells tore away a large
portion of the gaudy cupola that covered the Mahdi's tomb. Apart from this portent, nothing
of moment was done on that day; but it seems probable that the bombardment led the Khalifa
to hazard an attack on the invaders in the desert on the side away from the Nile. Nearer to
the Sirdar's main force the skirmishing of the 21st Lancers, new to war but eager to "win their
spurs," was answered by angry but impotent charges of the Khalifa's horse and foot, until at
sunset both sides retired for the night's rest.

The Anglo-Egyptian force made a zariba around the village of el-Gennuaia on the river bank;
and there, in full expectation of a night attack, they sought what slumber was to be had. What
with a panic rush of Sudanese servants and the stampede of an angry camel, the night wore away
uneasily; but there was no charge of Dervishes such as might have carried death to the heart
of that small zariba. It is said that the Sirdar had passed the hint to some trusty spies to
pretend to be deserters and warn the enemy that he was going to attack them by night. If this
be so, spies have never done better service.

When the first glimmer of dawn came on September 2, every man felt instinctively that the Khalifa
had thrown away his last chance. Yet few were prepared for the crowning act of madness. Every
one feared that he would hold fast to Omdurman and fight the new crusaders from house to house.
Possibly the seeming weakness of the zariba tempted him to a concentric attack from the Kerreri
Hills and the ridge which stretches on both sides of the steep slopes of the hill, Gebel Surgham.
A glance at the accompanying plan will show that the position was such as to tempt a confident
enemy. The Sirdar also manoeuvred so as to bring on an attack. He sent out the Egyptian cavalry
and camel corps soon after dawn to the plain lying between Gebel Surgham and Omdurman to lure
on the Khalifa's men.

The device was completely successful. Believing that they could catch the horsemen in the rocky
ridge alongside of Gebel Surgham, the Dervishes came forth from their capital in swarms, pressed
them hard, and inflicted some losses. Retiring in good order, the cavalry drew on the eager
hordes, until about 6.30 A.M. the white glint of their gibbehs, or tunics, showed thickly above
the tawny slopes on either side of Gebel Surgham. On they came in unnumbered throngs, until,
pressing northwards along the sky-line, their lines also topped the Kerreri Hills to the north
of the zariba. Their aim was obvious: they intended to surround the invaders, pen them up in
their zariba, and slaughter them there. To all who did not know the value of the central position
in war and the power of modern weapons, the attack seemed to promise complete success. The
invaders were 1300 miles away from Cairo and defeat would mean destruction.

Religious zeal lent strength to the onset. From the converging crescent of the Mahdists a sound
as of a dim murmur was wafted to the zariba. Little by little it deepened to a hoarse roar,
as the host surged on, chanting the pious invocations that so often had struck terror into
the Egyptians. Now they heard the threatening din with hearts unmoved; nay, with spirits longing
for revenge for untold wrongs and insults. Thus for some minutes in that vast amphitheatre
the discipline and calm confidence of the West stood quietly facing the fanatic fury of the
East. Two worlds were there embattled: the world of Mohammedanism and the world of Christian
civilisation; the empire of untutored force and the empire of mind.

At last, after some minutes of tense expectancy, the cannon opened fire, and speedily gaps
were seen in the white masses. Yet the crescent never slackened its advance, except when groups
halted to fire their muskets at impossible ranges. Waving their flags and intoning their prayers,
the Dervishes charged on in utter scorn of death; but when their ranks came within range of
the musketry fire, they went down like swathes of grass under the scythe. Then was seen a marvellous
sight. When the dead were falling their fastest, a band of about 150 Dervish horsemen formed
near the Khalifa's dark-green standard in the centre and rushed across the fire zone, determined
to snatch at triumph or gain the sensuous joys of the Moslem paradise. None of them rode far.

Only on the north, where the camel-corps fell into an awkward plight among the rocks of the
Kerreri slope, had the attack any chance of success; and there the shells of one of the six
protecting gunboats helped to check the assailants. On this side, too, Colonel Broadwood and
his Egyptian cavalry did excellent service by leading no small part of the Dervish left away
from the attack on the zariba. At the middle of the fiery crescent the assailants did some
execution by firing from a dip in the ground some 400 yards away; but their attempts to rush
the intervening space all ended in mere slaughter. Not long after eight o'clock the Khalifa,
seeing the hopelessness of attempting to cross the zone of fire around el-Gennuaia, now thickly
strewn with his dead, drew off the survivors beyond the ridge of Gebel Surgham; and those who
had followed Broadwood's horse also gave up their futile pursuit, and began to muster on the
Kerreri ridge.

The Sirdar now sought to force on a fight in the open; and with this aim in view commanded
a general advance on Omdurman. In order, as it would seem, to keep a fighting formation that
would impose respect on the bands of Dervishes on the Kerreri Hills, he adopted the formation
known as echelon of brigades from the left. Macdonald's Sudanese brigade, which held the northern
face of the zariba, was therefore compelled to swing round and march diagonally towards Gebel
Surgham; and, having a longer space to cover than the other brigades, it soon fell behind them.

For the present, however, the brunt of the danger fell, not on Macdonald, but on the vanguard.
The 21st Lancers had been sent forward over the ridge between Gebel Surgham and the Nile with
orders to reconnoitre, and, if possible, to head the Dervishes away from their city. Throwing
out scouts, they rode over the ridge, but soon afterwards came upon a steep and therefore concealed
khor or gulley whence a large body of concealed Dervishes poured a sharp fire[415]. At once
Colonel Martin ordered his men to dash at the enemy. Eagerly the troopers obeyed the order
and jumped their horses down the slope into the mass of furious fanatics below; these slashed
to pieces every one that fell, and viciously sought to hamstring the horses from behind. Pushing
through the mass, the lancers scrambled up the further bank, re-formed, and rushed at the groups
beyond; after thrusting these aside, they betook themselves to less dramatic but more effective
methods. Dismounting, they opened a rapid and very effective fire from their carbines on the
throngs that still clustered in or near the gulley. The charge, though a fine display of British
pluck, cost the horsemen dear: out of a total of 320 men 60 were killed and wounded; 119 horses
were killed or made useless[416].

[Footnote 415: Some accounts state that the Lancers had no scouts, but "an officer" denies
this (Sudan Campaign, 1896-99, p. 198).]

[Footnote 416: The general opinion of the army was that the charge of the Lancers "was magnificent,
but was not war." See G.W. Steevens' With Kitchener to Khartum, ch. xxxii.]

Meanwhile, Macdonald's brigade, consisting of one Egyptian and three Sudanese battalions, stood
on the brink of disaster. The bands from the Kerreri Hills were secretly preparing to charge
its rear, while masses of the Khalifa's main following turned back, rounded the western spurs
of Gebel Surgham, and threatened to envelop its right flank. The Sirdar, on seeing the danger,
ordered Wauchope's brigade to turn back to the help of Macdonald, while Maxwell's Sudanese,
swarming up the eastern slopes of Gebel Surgham, poured deadly volleys on the Khalifa's following.
Collinson's division and the camel corps were ordered to advance from the neighbourhood of
the zariba and support Macdonald on that side. Before these dispositions were complete, that
sturdy Scotsman and his Sudanese felt the full weight of the Khalifa's onset. Excited beyond
measure, Macdonald's men broke into spasmodic firing as the enemy came on; the deployment into
line was thereby disordered, and it needed all Macdonald's power of command to make good the
line. His steadiness stiffened the defence, and before the potent charm of western discipline
the Khalifa's onset died away.

But now the storm cloud gathering in the rear burst with unexpected fury. Masses of men led
by the Khalifa's son, the Sheikh ed Din, rushed down the Kerreri slopes and threatened to overwhelm
the brigade. Again there was seen a proof of the ascendancy of mind over brute force. At once
Macdonald ordered the left part of his line to wheel round, keeping the right as pivot, so
that the whole speedily formed two fronts resembling a capital letter V, pointing outwards
to the two hostile forces. Those who saw the movement wondered alike at the masterly resolve,
the steadiness of execution, and the fanatical bravery which threatened to make it all of no
avail. On came the white swarms of Arabs from the north, until the Sudanese firing once more
became wild and ineffective; but, as the ammunition of the blacks ran low and they prepared
to trust to the bayonet, the nearest unit of the British division, the Lincolns, doubled up,
prolonged Macdonald's line to the right, and poured volley upon volley obliquely into the surging
flood. It slackened, stood still, and then slowly ebbed. Macdonald's coolness and the timely
arrival of the Lincolns undoubtedly averted a serious disaster[417].

[Footnote 417: See Mr. Winston Churchill's The River War, vol. ii. pp. 160-163, for the help
given by the Lincolns.]

Meanwhile, the Khalifa's main force had been held in check and decimated by the artillery now
planted on Gebel Surgham and by the fire of the brigades on or near its slopes; so that about
eleven o'clock the Sirdar's lines could everywhere advance. After beating off a desperate charge
of Baggara horsemen from the west, Macdonald unbent his brigade and drove back the sullen hordes
of ed Din to the western spurs of the Kerreri Hills, where they were harassed by Broadwood's
horse. All was now ended, except at the centre of the Khalifa's force, where a faithful band
clustered about the dark-green standard of their leader and chanted defiance to the infidels
till one by one they fell. The chief himself, unworthy object of this devotion, fled away on
a swift dromedary some time before the last group of stalwarts bit the sand.

Despite the terrible heat and the thirst of his men, the Sirdar allowed only a brief rest before
he resumed the march on Omdurman. Leaving no time for the bulk of the Dervish survivors to
reach their capital, he pushed on at the head of Maxwell's brigade, while once more the shells
of the gunboats spread terror in the city. The news brought by a few runaways and the sight
of the Khalifa's standard carried behind the Egyptian ensign dispelled all hopes of resisting
the disciplined Sudanese battalions; and, in order to clinch matters, the Sirdar with splendid
courage rode at the head of the brigade to summon the city to surrender. Through the clusters
of hovels on the outskirts he rode on despite the protests of his staff against any needless
exposure of his life. He rightly counted on the effect which such boldness on the part of the
chief must have on an undecided populace. Fanatics here and there fired on the conquerors,
but the news of the Khalifa's cowardly flight from the city soon decided the wavering mass
to bow before the inscrutable decrees of fate, and ask for backsheesh from the victors.

Thus was Omdurman taken. Neufeld, an Austrian trader, and some Greeks and nuns who had been
in captivity for several years, were at once set free. It was afterwards estimated that about
10,000 Dervishes perished in the battle; very many died of their wounds upon the field or were
bayoneted owing to their persistence in firing on the victors. This episode formed the darkest
side of the triumph; but it was malignantly magnified by some Continental journals into a wholesale
slaughter. This is false. Omdurman will bear comparison with Skobeleff's victory at Denghil
Tepé at all points.

Two days after his triumph the Sirdar ordered a parade opposite the ruins of the palace in
Khartum where Gordon had met his doom. The funeral service held there in memory of the dead
hero was, perhaps, the most affecting scene that this generation has witnessed. Detachments
of most of the regiments of the rescue force formed a semicircle round the Sirdar; and by his
side stood a group of war-worn officers, who with him had toiled for years in order to see
this day. The funeral service was intoned; the solemn assembly sang Gordon's favourite hymn,
"Abide with me," and the Scottish pipes wailed their lament for the lost chieftain. Few eyes
were undimmed by tears at the close of this service, a slight but affecting reparation for
the delays and blunders of fourteen years before. Then the Union Jack and the Egyptian Crescent
flag were hoisted and received a salute of 21 guns.

The recovery of the Sudan by Egypt and Great Britain was not to pass unchallenged. All along
France had viewed the reconquest of the valley of the upper Nile with ill-concealed jealousy,
and some persons have maintained that the French Government was not a stranger to designs hatched
in France for helping the Khalifa[418]. Now that these questions have been happily buried by
the Anglo-French agreement of the year 1904, it would be foolish to recount all that was said
amidst the excitements of the year 1898. Some reference must, however, be made to the Fashoda
incident, which for a short space threatened to bring Great Britain and France to an open rupture.

[Footnote 418: See an unsigned article in the Contemporary Review for Dec. 1897.]

On September 5, a steamer, flying the white flag, reached Omdurman. The ex-Dervish captain
brought the news that at Fashoda he had been fired upon by white men bearing a strange flag.
The Sirdar divined the truth, namely, that a French expedition under Major (now Colonel) Marchand
must have made its way from the Congo to the White Nile at Fashoda with the aim of annexing
that district for France.

Now that the dust of controversy has cleared away, we can see facts in their true proportions,
especially as the work recently published by M. de Freycinet and the revelations of Colonel
Marchand have thrown more light on the affair. Briefly stated, the French case is as follows.
Mr. Gladstone on May 11, 1885, declared officially that Egypt limited her sway to a line drawn
through Wady Haifa. The authority of the Khedive over the Sudan therefore ceased, though this
did not imply the cessation of the Sultan's suzerainty in those regions. Further, England had
acted as if the Sudan were no man's land by appropriating the southernmost part in accordance
with the Anglo-German agreement of July I, 1890; and Uganda became a British Protectorate in
August 1894. The French protested against this extension of British influence over the Upper
Nile; and we must admit that, in regard to international law, they were right. The power to
will away that district lay with the Sultan, the Khedive's claims having practically lapsed.
Germany, it is true, agreed not to contest the annexation of Uganda, but France did contest it.

The Republic also entered a protest against the Anglo-Congolese Convention of May 12, 1894,
whereby, in return for the acquisition of the right bank of the Upper Nile, England ceded to
the Congo Free State the left bank[419]. That compact was accordingly withdrawn, and on August
14, 1894, France secured from the Free State the recognition of her claims to the left bank
of the Nile with the exception of the Lado district below the Albert Nyanza. This action on
the part of France implied a desire on her part to appropriate these lands, and to contest
the British claim to the right bank. In regard to law, she was justified in so doing; and had
she, acting as the mandatory of the Sultan, sent an expedition from the Congo to the Upper
Nile, her conduct in proclaiming a Turco-Frankish condominium would have been unexceptionable.
That of Britain was open to question, seeing that we practically ignored the Sultan[420] and
acted (so far as is known) on our own initiative in reversing the policy of abandonment officially
announced in May 1885. From the standpoint of equity, however, the Khedive had the first claim
to the territories then given up under stress of circumstances; and the Power that helped him
to regain the heritage of his sires obviously had a strong claim to consideration so long as
it acted with the full consent of that potentate.

[Footnote 419: Parl. Papers, Egypt, No. 2 (1898), pp. 13-14.]

[Footnote 420: The Earl of Kimberley's reply of Aug. 14, 1894, to M. Hanotaux, is very weak
on this topic. Parl. Papers, Egypt, No. 2 (1898), pp. 14-15.]

The British Cabinet, that of Lord Rosebery, frankly proclaimed its determination to champion
the claims of the Khedive against all comers, Sir Edward Grey declaring officially in the debate
of March 28, 1895, that the despatch of a French expedition to the Upper Nile would be "an
unfriendly act[421]." We know now, through the revelations made by Colonel Marchand in the
Matin of June 20, 1905, that in June 1895 he had pressed the French Government to intervene
in that quarter; but it did little, relying (so M. de Freycinet states) on the compact of August
14, 1894, and not, apparently, on any mandate from the Sultan. If so, it had less right to
intervene than the British Government had in virtue of its close connection with the Khedive.
As a matter of fact, both Powers lacked an authoritative mandate and acted in accordance with
their own interests. It is therefore futile to appeal to law, as M. de Freycinet has done.

[Footnote 421: Ibid. p. 18.]

It remained to see which of the two would act the more efficiently. M. Marchand states that
his plan of action was approved by the French Minister for the Colonies, M. Berthelot, on November
16, 1895; but little came of it until the news of the preparations for the Anglo-Egyptian Expedition
reached Paris. It would be interesting to hear what Lord Rosebery and Sir Edward Grey would
say to this. For the present we may affirm with some confidence that the tidings of the Franco-Congolese
compact of August 1894 and of expeditions sent under Monteil and Liotard towards the Nile basin
must have furnished the real motive for the despatch of the Sirdar's army on the expedition
to Dongola. That event in its turn aroused angry feelings at Paris, and M. Berthelot went so
far as to inform Lord Salisbury that he would not hold himself responsible for events that
might occur if the expedition up the Nile were persisted in. After giving this brusque but
useful warning of the importance which France attached to the Upper Nile, M. Berthelot quitted
office, and M. Bourgeois, the Prime Minister, took the portfolio for foreign affairs. He pushed
on the Marchand expedition; so also did his successor, M. Hanotaux, in the Méline Cabinet which
speedily supervened.

Marchand left Marseilles on June 25, 1896, to join his expeditionary force, then being prepared
in the French Congo. It is needless to detail the struggles of the gallant band. After battling
for two years with the rapids, swamps, forests, and mountains of Eastern Congoland and the
Bahr-el-Ghazal, he brought his flotilla down to the White Nile, thence up its course to Fashoda,
where he hoisted the tricolour (July 12, 1898). His men strengthened the old Egyptian fort,
and beat off an attack of the Dervishes.

Nevertheless they had only half succeeded, for they relied on the approach of a French Mission
from the east by way of Abyssinia. A Prince of the House of Orleans had been working hard to
this end, but owing to the hostility of the natives of Southern Abyssinia that expedition had
to fall back on Kukong. A Russian officer, Colonel Artomoroff, had struggled on down the River
Sobat, but he and his band also had to retire[422]. The purport of these Franco-Russian designs
is not yet known; but even so, we can see that the situation was one of great peril. Had the
French and Russian officers from Abyssinia joined hands with Marchand at Fashoda, their Governments
might have made it a point of honour to remain, and to claim for France a belt of territory
extending from the confines of the French Congo eastwards to Obock on the Red Sea.

[Footnote 422: Marchand l'Africain, by C. Castellani, pp. 279-280. The author reveals his malice
by the statement (p. 293) that the Sirdar, after the battle of Omdurman, ordered 14,000 Dervish
wounded to be éventrés.]

As it was, Marchand and his heroic little band were in much danger from the Dervishes when
the Sirdar and his force steamed up to Fashoda. The interview between the two chiefs at that
place was of historic interest. Sir Herbert Kitchener congratulated the Major on his triumph
of exploration, but claimed that he must plant the flag of the Khedive at Fashoda. M. Marchand
declared that he would hoist it himself over the village. "Over the fort, Major," replied the
Sirdar. "I cannot permit it," exclaimed the Major, "as the French flag is there." A reference
by the Sirdar to his superiority of force produced no effect, the French commander stating
that if it were used he and his men would die at their posts. He, however, requested the Sirdar
to let the matter be referred to the Government at Paris, to which Sir Herbert assented. After
exchanging courteous gifts they parted, the Sirdar leaving an Egyptian force in the village,
and lodging a written protest against the presence of the French force[423]. He then proceeded
up stream to the Sobat tributary, on the banks of which at Nassar he left half of a Sudanese
battalion to bar the road on that side to geographical explorers provided with flags. He then
returned to Khartum.

[Footnote 423: Parl. Papers, Egypt, No. 2 (1898), p. 9; No. 3 (1898), pp. 3-4.]

The sequel is well known. Lord Salisbury's Government behaved with unexpected firmness, asserting
that the overthrow of the Mahdi brought again under the Egyptian flag all the lands which that
leader had for a time occupied. The claim was not wholly convincing in the sphere of logic;
but the victory of Omdurman gave it force. Clearly, then, whether Major Marchand was an emissary
of civilisation or a pioneer of French rule, he had no locus standi on the Nile. The French
Government before long gave way and recalled Major Marchand, who returned to France by way
of Cairo. This tame end to what was a heroic struggle to extend French influence greatly incensed
the major; and at Cairo he made a speech, declaring that for the present France was worsted
in the valley of the Nile, but the day might come when she would be supreme.

It is generally believed that France gave way at this juncture partly because her navy was
known to be unequal to a conflict with that of Great Britain, but also because Franco-German
relations were none of the best. Or, in the language of the Parisian boulevards: "How do we
know that while we are fighting the British for the Nile valley, Germany will not invade Lorraine?"
As to the influences emanating from St. Petersburg contradictory statements have been made.
Rumour asserted that the Czar sought to moderate the irritation in France and to bring about
a peaceful settlement of the dispute; and this story won general acceptance. The astonishment
was therefore great when, in the early part of the Russo-Japanese war, the Paris Figaro published
documents which seemed to prove that he had assured the French Government of his determination
to fulfil the terms of the alliance if matters came to the sword.

There we must leave the affair, merely noting that the Anglo-French agreement of March 1899
peaceably ended the dispute and placed the whole of the Egyptian Sudan, together with the Bahr-el-Ghazal
district and the greater part of the Libyan Desert, west of Egypt, under the Anglo-Egyptian
sphere of influence. (See map at the end of this volume.)

The battle of Omdurman therefore ranks with the most decisive in modern history, not only in
a military sense, but also because it extended British influence up the Nile valley as far
as Uganda. Had French statesmen and M. Marchand achieved their aims, there is little doubt
that a solid wedge would have been driven through north-central Africa from west to east, from
the Ubangi Province of French Congoland to the mouth of the Red Sea. The Sirdar's triumph came
just in time to thwart this design and to place in the hands that administered Egypt the control
of the waters whence that land draws its life. Without crediting the stories that were put
forth in the French Press as to the possibility of France damming up the Nile at Fashoda and
diverting its floods into the Bahr-el-Ghazal district, we may recognise that the control of
that river by Egypt is a vital necessity, and that the nation which helped the Khedive to regain
that control thereby established one more claim to a close partnership in the administration
at Cairo. The reasonableness of that claim was finally admitted by France in the Anglo-French
agreement of the year 1904.

That treaty set the seal, apparently, on a series of efforts of a strangely mixed character.
The control of bondholders, the ill-advised strivings of Arabi, the armed intervention undertaken
by Sir Beauchamp Seymour and Sir Garnet Wolseley, the forlorn hope of Gordon's Mission to Khartum,
the fanaticism of the Mahdists, the diplomatic skill of Lord Cromer, the covert opposition
of France and the Sultan, and the organising genius of Lord Kitchener--such is the medley of
influences, ranging from the basest up to the noblest of which human nature is capable, that
served to draw the Government of Great Britain deeper and deeper into the meshes of the Egyptian
Question, until the heroism, skill, and stubbornness of a few of her sons brought about results
which would now astonish those who early in the eighties tardily put forth the first timid
efforts at intervention.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE PARTITION OF AFRICA

In the opening up of new lands by European peoples the order of events is generally somewhat
as follows:--First come explorers, pioneers, or missionaries. These having thrown some light
on the character of a land or of its people, traders follow in their wake; and in due course
factories are formed and settlements arise. The ideas of the new-comers as to the rights of
property and landholding differ so widely from those of the natives, that quarrels and strifes
frequently ensue. Warships and soldiers then appear on the scene; and the end of the old order
of things is marked by the hoisting of the Union Jack, or the French or German tricolour. In
the case of the expansion of Russia as we have seen, the procedure is far otherwise. But Africa
has been for the most part explored, exploited, and annexed by agencies working from the sea
and proceeding in the way just outlined.

The period since the year 1870 has for the most part witnessed the operation of the last and
the least romantic of these so-called civilising efforts. The great age of African exploration
was then drawing to a close. In the year 1870 that devoted missionary explorer, David Livingstone,
was lost to sight for many months owing to his earnest longing peacefully to solve the great
problem of the waterways of Central Africa, and thus open up an easy path for the suppression
of the slave-trade. But when, in 1871, Mr. H.M. Stanley, the enterprising correspondent of
the New York Herald, at the head of a rescue expedition, met the grizzled, fever-stricken veteran
near Ujiji and greeted him with the words--"Mr. Livingstone, I presume," the age of mystery
and picturesqueness vanished away.

A change in the spirit and methods of exploration naturally comes about when the efforts of
single individuals give place to collective enterprise[424], and that change was now rapidly
to come over the whole field of African exploration. The day of the Mungo Parks and Livingstones
was passing away, and the day of associations and companies was at hand. In 1876, Leopold II.,
King of the Belgians, summoned to Brussels several of the leading explorers and geographers
in order to confer on the best methods of opening up Africa. The specific results of this important
Conference will be considered in the next chapter; but we may here note that, under the auspices
of the "International Association for the Exploration and Civilisation of Africa" then founded,
much pioneer work was carried out in districts remote from the River Congo. The vast continent
also yielded up its secrets to travellers working their way in from the south and the north,
so that in the late seventies the white races opened up to view vast and populous districts
which imaginative chartographers in other ages had diversified with the Mountains of the Moon
or with signs of the Zodiac and monstrosities of the animal creation.

[Footnote 424: In saying this I do not underrate the achievements of explorers like Stanley,
Thomson, Cameron, Schweinfurth, Pogge, Nachtigall, Pinto, de Brazza, Johnston, Wissmann, Holub,
Lugard, and others; but apart from the first two, none of them made discoveries that can be
called epoch-marking.]

The last epoch-marking work carried through by an individual was accomplished by a Scottish
explorer, whose achievements almost rivalled those of Livingstone. Joseph Thomson, a native
of Dumfriesshire, succeeded in 1879 to the command of an exploring party which sought to open
up the country around the lakes of Nyassa and Tanganyika. Four years later, on behalf of the
Royal Geographical Society, he undertook to examine the country behind Mombasa which was little
better known than when Vasco da Gama first touched there. In this journey Thomson discovered
two snow-capped mountains, Kilimanjaro and Kenia, and made known the resources of the country
as far inland as the Victoria Nyanza. Considering the small resources he had at hand, and the
cruel and warlike character of the Masai people through whom he journeyed, this journey was
by far the most remarkable and important in the annals of exploration during the eighties.
Thomson afterwards undertook to open a way from the Benuë, the great eastern affluent of the
Niger, to Lake Chad and the White Nile. Here again he succeeded beyond all expectation, while
his tactful management of the natives led to political results of the highest importance, as
will shortly appear.

These explorations and those of French, German, and Portuguese travellers served to bring nearly
the whole of Africa within the ken of the civilised world, and revealed the fact that nearly
all parts of tropical Africa had a distinct commercial value.

This discovery, we may point out, is the necessary preliminary to any great and sustained work
of colonisation and annexation. Three conditions may be looked on as essential to such an effort.
First, that new lands should be known to be worth the labour of exploitation or settlement;
second, that the older nations should possess enough vitality to pour settlers and treasure
into them; and thirdly, that mechanical appliances should be available for the overcoming of
natural obstacles.

Now, a brief glance at the great eras of exploring and colonising activity will show that in
all these three directions the last thirty years have presented advantages which are unique
in the history of the world. A few words will suffice to make good this assertion. The wars
which constantly devastated the ancient world, and the feeble resources in regard to navigation
wielded by adventurous captains, such as Hanno the Carthaginian, grievously hampered all the
efforts of explorers by sea, while mechanical appliances were so weak as to cripple man's efforts
at penetrating the interior. The same is true of the mediaeval voyagers and travellers. Only
the very princes among men, Columbus, Magellan, Vasco da Gama, Cabot, Cabral, Gilbert, and
Raleigh, could have done what they did with ships that were mere playthings. Science had to
do her work of long and patient research before man could hopefully face the mighty forces
and malignant influences of the tropics. Nor was the advance of knowledge and invention sufficient
by itself to equip man for successful war against the ocean, the desert, the forest, and the
swamp. The political and social development of the older countries was equally necessary. In
order that thousands of settlers should be able and ready to press in where the one great leader
had shown the way, Europe had to gain something like peace and stability. Only thus, when the
natural surplus of the white races could devote itself to the task of peacefully subduing the
earth rather than to the hideous work of mutual slaughter, could the life-blood of Europe be
poured forth in fertilising streams into the waste places of the other continents.

The latter half of the eighteenth century promised for a brief space to inaugurate such a period
of expansive life. The close of the Seven Years' War seemed to be the starting point for a
peaceful campaign against the unknown; but the efforts of Cook, d'Entrecasteaux, and others
then had little practical result, owing to the American War of Independence, and the great
cycle of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars. These in their turn left Europe too exhausted
to accomplish much in the way of colonial expansion until the middle of the nineteenth century.
Even then, when the steamship and the locomotive were at hand to multiply man's powers, there
was, as yet, no general wish, except on the part of the more fortunate English-speaking peoples,
to enter into man's new heritage. The problems of Europe had to be settled before the age of
expansive activity could dawn in its full radiance. As has been previously shown, Europe was
in an introspective mood up to the years 1870-1878.

Our foregoing studies have shown that the years following the Russo-Turkish War of 1877-8,
brought about a state of political equilibrium which made for peace and stagnation in Europe;
and the natural forces of the Continent, cramped by the opposition of equal and powerful forces,
took the line of least resistance--away from Europe. For Russia, the line of least resistance
was in Central Asia. For all other European States it was the sea, and the new lands beyond.

Furthermore, in that momentous decade the steamship and locomotive were constantly gaining
in efficiency; electricity was entering the arena as a new and mighty force; by this time medical
science had so far advanced as to screen man from many of the ills of which the tropics are
profuse; and the repeating rifle multiplied the power of the white man in his conflicts with
savage peoples. When all the advantages of the present generation are weighed in the balance
against the meagre equipment of the earlier discoverers, the nineteenth century has scant claim
for boasting over the fifteenth. In truth, its great achievements in this sphere have been
practical and political. It has only fulfilled the rich promise of the age of the great navigators.
Where they could but wonderingly skirt the fringes of a new world, the moderns have won their
way to the heart of things and found many an Eldorado potentially richer than that which tempted
the cupidity of Cortes and Pizarro.

In one respect the European statesmen of the recent past tower above their predecessors of
the centuries before. In the eighteenth century the "mercantilist" craze for seizing new markets
and shutting out all possible rivals brought about most of the wars that desolated Europe.
In the years 1880-1890 the great Powers put forth sustained and successful efforts to avert
the like calamity, and to cloak with the mantle of diplomacy the eager scrambles for the unclaimed
lands of the world.

For various reasons the attention of statesmen turned almost solely on Africa. Central and
South America were divided among States that were nominally civilised and enjoyed the protection
of the Monroe Doctrine put forward by the United States. Australia was wholly British. In Asia
the weakness of China was but dimly surmised; and Siam and Cochin China alone offered any field
for settlement or conquest by European peoples from the sea. In Polynesia several groups of
islands were still unclaimed; but these could not appease the land-hunger of Europe. Africa
alone provided void spaces proportionate to the needs and ambitions of the white man. The opening
of the Suez Canal in 1869 served to bring the east coast of that continent within easy reach
of Europe; and the discoveries on the Upper Nile, Congo, and Niger opened a way into other
large parts. Thus, by the year 1880, everything favoured the "partition of Africa."

Rumour, in the guise of hints given by communicative young attachés or "well-informed" correspondents,
ascribes the first beginnings of the plans for the partition of Africa to the informal conversations
of statesmen at the time of the Congress of Berlin (1878). Just as an architect safeguards
his creation by providing a lightning-conductor, so the builder of the German Empire sought
to divert from that fabric the revengeful storms that might be expected from the south-west.
Other statesmen were no less anxious than Bismarck to draw away the attention of rivals from
their own political preserves by pointing the way to more desirable waste domains. In short,
the statesmen of Europe sought to plant in Africa the lightning-conductors that would safeguard
the new arrangements in Europe, including that of Cyprus. The German and British Governments
are known then to have passed on hints to that of France as to the desirability of her appropriating
Tunis. The Republic entered into the schemes, with results which have already been considered
(Chapter XII.); and, as a sequel to the occupation of Tunis, plans were set on foot for the
eventual conquest of the whole of the North-West of Africa (except Morocco and a few British,
Spanish, and Portuguese settlements) from Cape Bon to Cape Verde, and thence nearly to the
mouth of the River Niger. We may also note that in and after 1883 France matured her schemes
for the conquest of part, and ultimately the whole, of Madagascar, a project which reached
completion in the year 1885[425].

[Footnote 425: For the French treaty of December 17, 1885, with Madagascar see Parl. Papers,
Africa, No. 2 (1886).]

The military occupation of Egypt by Great Britain in 1882 also served to quicken the interest
of European Powers in Africa. It has been surmised that British acquiescence in French supremacy
in Tunis, West Africa, and Madagascar had some connection with the events that transpired in
Egypt, and that the perpetuation of British supremacy in the valley of the Nile was virtually
bought by the surrender of most of our political and trading interests in these lands, the
lapse of which under the French "protective" regime caused much heart-burning in commercial
circles.

Last among the special causes that concentrated attention on Africa was the activity of King
Leopold's Association at Brussels in opening up the Congo district in the years 1879-1882.
Everything therefore tended to make the ownership of tropical Africa the most complex question
of the early part of the eighties.

For various reasons Germany was a little later than France and England in entering the field.
The hostility of France on the west, and, after 1878, that of Russia on the east, made it inadvisable
for the new Empire to give hostages to Fortune, in the shape of colonies, until by alliances
it secured its position at home and possessed a fleet strong enough to defend distant possessions.
In some measure the German Government had to curb the eagerness of its "colonial party." The
present writer was in Germany in the year 1879, when the colonial propaganda was being pushed
forward, and noted the eagerness in some quarters, and the distrust in others, with which pamphlets
like that of Herr Fabri, Bedarf Deutschland Colonien? were received. Bismarck himself at first
checked the "colonials," until he felt sure of the European situation. That, however, was cleared
up to some extent by the inclusion of Italy in the compact which thus became the Triple Alliance
(May 1882), and by the advent to office of the pacific Chancellor, de Giers, at St. Petersburg
a little later. There was therefore the less need officially to curb the colonising instinct
of the Teutonic people. The formation of the German Colonial Society at Frankfurt in December
1882, and the immense success attending its propaganda, spurred on the statesmen of Berlin
to take action. They looked longingly (as they still do) towards Brazil, in whose southern
districts their people had settled in large numbers; but over all that land the Monroe Doctrine
spread its sheltering wings. A war with the United States would have been madness, and Germany
therefore turned to Polynesia and Africa. We may note here that in 1885 she endeavoured to
secure the Caroline Islands from Spain, whose title to them seemed to have lapsed; but Spanish
pride flared up at the insult, and after a short space Bismarck soothed ruffled feelings at
Madrid by accepting the mediation of the Pope, who awarded them to Spain--Germany, however,
gaining the right to occupy an islet of the group as a coaling station.

Africa, however, absorbed nearly all the energy of the German colonial party. The forward wing
of that party early in the year 1884 inaugurated an anti-British campaign in the press, which
probably had the support of the Government. As has been stated in chapter XII., that was the
time when the Three Emperors' League showed signs of renewed vitality; and Bismarck, after
signing the secret treaty of March 24, 1884 (later on ratified at Skiernevice), felt safe in
pressing on colonial designs against England in Africa, especially as Russia was known to be
planning equally threatening moves against the Queen's Empire in Asia. We do not know enough
of what then went on between the German and Russian Chancellors to assert that they formed
a definite agreement to harry British interests in those continents; but, judging from the
general drift of Bismarck's diplomacy and from the "nagging" to which England was thenceforth
subjected for two years, it seems highly probable that the policy ratified at Skiernevice aimed
at marking time in European affairs and striding onwards in other continents at the expense
of the Island Power.

The Anglophobes of the German press at once fell foul of everything British; and that well-known
paper the Kölnische Zeitung in an article of April 22, 1884, used the following words:--"Africa
is a large pudding which the English have prepared for themselves at other people's expense,
and the crust of which is already fit for eating. Let us hope that our sailors will put a few
pepper-corns into it on the Guinea coast, so that our friends on the Thames may not digest
it too rapidly." The sequel will show whether the simile correctly describes either the state
of John Bull's appetite or the easy aloofness of the Teutonic onlooker.

It will be convenient to treat this great and complex subject on a topographical basis, and
to begin with a survey of the affairs of East Africa, especially the districts on the mainland
north and south of the island of Zanzibar. At that important trade centre, the natural starting
point then for the vast district of the Great Lakes, the influence of British and Indian traders
had been paramount; and for many years the Sultan of Zanzibar had been "under the direct influence
of the United Kingdom and of the Government of India[426]." Nevertheless, in and after 1880
German merchants, especially those of Hamburg, pressed in with great energy and formed plans
for annexing the neighbouring territories on the mainland.

[Footnote 426: Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 1 (1886), p. 2.]

Their energy was in strange contrast to the lethargy shown by the British Government in the
protection of Anglo-Indian trade interests. In the year 1878 the Sultan of Zanzibar, who held
a large territory on the mainland, had offered the control of all the commerce of his dominions
to Sir W. Mackinnon, Chairman of the British-India Steam Navigation Company; but, for some
unexplained reason, the Beaconsfield Cabinet declined to be a party to this arrangement, which,
therefore, fell through[427]. Despite the fact that England and France had in 1862 agreed to
recognise the independence of the Sultan of Zanzibar, the Germans deemed the field to be clear,
and early in November 1884, Dr. Karl Peters and two other enthusiasts of the colonial party
landed at Zanzibar, disguised as mechanics, with the aim of winning new lands for their Fatherland.
They had with them several blank treaty forms, the hidden potency of which was soon to be felt
by dusky potentates on the mainland. Before long they succeeded in persuading some of these
novices in diplomacy to set their marks to these documents, an act which converted them into
subjects of the Kaiser, and speedily secured 60,000 square miles for the German tricolour.
It is said that the Government of Berlin either had no knowledge of, or disapproved of, these
proceedings; and, when Earl Granville ventured on some representations respecting them, he
received the reply, dated November 28, 1884, that the Imperial Government had no design of
obtaining a protectorate over Zanzibar[428]. It is difficult to reconcile these statements
with the undoubted fact that on February 17, 1885, the German Emperor gave his sanction to
the proceedings of Dr. Peters by extending his suzerainty over the signatory chiefs[429]. This
event caused soreness among British explorers and Indian traders who had been the first to
open up the country to civilisation. Nevertheless, the Gladstone Ministry took no effective
steps to safeguard their interests.

[Footnote 427: The Partition of Africa, by J. Scott Keltie (1893), pp. 157, 225.]

[Footnote 428: Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 1 (1886), p. 1.]

[Footnote 429: Ibid. pp. 12-20.]

In defence of their academic treatment of this matter some considerations of a general nature
may be urged.

The need of colonies felt by Germany was so natural, so imperious, that it could not be met
by the high and dry legal argument as to the priority of Great Britain's commercial interests.
Such an attitude would have involved war with Germany about East Africa and war with France
about West Africa, at the very time when we were on the brink of hostilities with Russia about
Merv, and were actually fighting the Mahdists behind Suakim. The "weary Titan"--to use Matthew
Arnold's picturesque phrase--was then overburdened. The motto, "Live and let live," was for
the time the most reasonable, provided that it was not interpreted in a weak and maudlin way
on essential points.

Many critics, however, maintain that Mr. Gladstone's and Lord Granville's diplomatic dealings
with Germany in the years 1884 and 1885 displayed most lamentable weakness, even when Dr. Peters
and others were known to be working hard at the back of Zanzibar, with the results that have
been noted. In April 1885 the Cabinet ordered Sir John Kirk, British representative at Zanzibar,
and founder of the hitherto unchallenged supremacy of his nation along that coast, forthwith
to undo the work of a lifetime by "maintaining friendly relations" with the German authorities
at that port. This, of course, implied a tacit acknowledgment by Britain of what amounted to
a German protectorate over the mainland possessions of the Sultan. It is not often that a Government,
in its zeal for "live and let live," imposes so humiliating a task on a British representative.
The Sultan did not take the serene and philosophic view of the situation that was held at Downing
Street, and the advent of a German squadron was necessary in order to procure his consent to
these arrangements (August-December 1885.)[430]

[Footnote 430: J. Scott Keltie, The Partition of Africa, ch. xv.]

The Blue Book dealing with Zanzibar (Africa, No. 1, 1886) by no means solves the riddle of
the negotiations which went on between London and Berlin early in the year 1885. From other
sources we know that the most ardent of the German colonials were far from satisfied with their
triumph. Curious details have appeared showing that their schemes included the laying of a
trap for the Sultan of Zanzibar, which failed owing to clumsy baiting and the loquacity of
the would-be captor. Lord Rosebery also managed, according to German accounts, to get the better
of Count Herbert Bismarck in respect of St. Lucia Bay (see page 528) and districts on the Benuë
River; so that this may perhaps be placed over against the losses sustained by Britain on the
coast opposite Zanzibar. Even there, as we have seen, results did not fully correspond to the
high hopes entertained by the German Chauvinists[431].

[Footnote 431: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages of his History, vol. iii. pp. 135, 144-45. Parl.
Papers, Africa, No. 1 (1886), pp. 39-45, 61 et seq.; also No. 3 (1886), pp. 4, 15.]

In the meantime (June 1885) the Salisbury Cabinet came into office for a short time, but the
evil effects of the slackness of British diplomacy were not yet at an end. At this time British
merchants, especially those of Manchester, were endeavouring to develop the mountainous country
around the giant cone of Mt. Kilimanjaro, where Mr. (now Sir) Harry Johnston had, in September
1884, secured some trading and other rights with certain chiefs. A company had been formed
in order to further British interests, and this soon became the Imperial British East Africa
Company, which aspired to territorial control in the parts north of those claimed by Dr. Peters'
Company. A struggle took place between the two companies, the German East Africa Company laying
claim to the Kilimanjaro district. Again it proved that the Germans had the more effective
backing, and, despite objections urged by our Foreign Minister, Lord Rosebery, against the
proceedings of German agents in that tract, the question of ownership was referred to the decision
of an Anglo-German boundary commission.

Lord Iddesleigh assumed control of the Foreign Office in August, but the advent of the Conservatives
to power in no way helped on the British case. By an agreement between the two Powers, dated
November 1, 1886, the Kilimanjaro district was assigned to Germany. From the northern spurs
of that mountain the dividing line ran in a north-westerly direction towards the Victoria Nyanza.
The same agreement recognised the authority of the Sultan of Zanzibar as extending over the
island of that name, those of Pemba and Mafia, and over a strip of coastline ten nautical miles
in width; but the ownership of the district of Vitu north of Mombasa was left open[432]. (See
map at the close of this volume.)

[Footnote 432: Banning, op. cit. pp. 45-50; Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 3 (1887), pp. 46, 59.]

On the whole, the skill which dispossessed a sovereign of most of his rights, under a plea
of diplomatic rearrangements and the advancement of civilisation, must be pronounced unrivalled;
and Britain cut a sorry figure as the weak and unwilling accessory to this act. The only satisfactory
feature in the whole proceeding was Britain's success in leasing from the Sultan of Zanzibar
administrative rights over the coast region around Mombasa. The gain of that part secured unimpeded
access from the coast to the northern half of Lake Victoria Nyanza. The German Company secured
similar rights over the coastline of their district, and in 1890 bought it outright. By an
agreement of December 1896, the River Rovuma was recognised by Germany and Portugal as the
boundary of their East African possessions.

The lofty hopes once entertained by the Germans as to the productiveness of their part of East
Africa have been but partially realised[433]. Harsh treatment of the natives brought about
a formidable revolt in 1888-89. The need of British co-operation in the crushing of this revolt
served to bring Germany to a more friendly attitude towards this country. Probably the resignation,
or rather the dismissal, of Bismarck by the present Emperor, in March 1890, also tended to
lessen the friction between England and Germany. The Prince while in retirement expressed strong
disapproval of the East African policy of his successor, Count Caprivi.

[Footnote 433: See the Report on German East Africa for 1900, in our Diplomatic and Consular
Reports.]

Its more conciliatory spirit found expression in the Anglo-German agreement of July 1, 1890,
which delimited the districts claimed by the two nations around the Victoria Nyanza in a sense
favourable to Great Britain and disappointing to that indefatigable treaty-maker, Dr. Peters.
It acknowledged British claims to the northern half of the shores and waters of that great
lake and to the valley of the Upper Nile, as also to the coast of the Indian Ocean about Vitu
and thence northwards to Kismayu.

On the other hand, Germany acquired the land north of Lake Nyassa, where British interests
had been paramount. The same agreement applied both to the British and German lands in question
the principle of free or unrestricted transit of goods, as also between the great lakes. Germany
further recognised a British Protectorate over the islands held by the Sultan of Zanzibar,
reserving certain rights for German commerce in the case of the Island of Mafia. Finally, Great
Britain ceded to Germany the Island of Heligoland in the North Sea. On both sides of the North
Sea the compact aroused a storm of hostile comment, which perhaps served to emphasise its fairness[434].
Bismarck's opinion deserves quotation:--

     Zanzibar ought not to have been left to the English. It would
     have been better to maintain the old arrangement. We could
     then have had it at some later time when England required our
     good offices against France or Russia. In the meantime our
     merchants, who are cleverer, and, like the Jews, are
     satisfied with smaller profits, would have kept the upper
     hand in business. To regard Heligoland as an equivalent shows
     more imagination than sound calculation. In the event of war
     it would be better for us that it should be in the hands of a
     neutral Power. It is difficult and most expensive to
     fortify[435].

[Footnote 434: Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 6 (1890).]

[Footnote 435: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages of his History, vol. iii. p. 353. See, too, S. Whitman,
Personal Reminiscences of Prince Bismarck, p. 122.]

The passage is instructive as showing the aim of Bismarck's colonial policy, namely, to wait
until England's difficulties were acute (or perhaps to augment those difficulties, as he certainly
did by furthering Russian schemes against Afghanistan in 1884-85[436]), and then to apply remorseless
pressure at all points where the colonial or commercial interests of the two countries clashed.
In fact, those persons who declaim against German colonial ambitions of to-day may be asked
to remember that the extra-European questions recently at issue between Great Britain and Germany
are trivial when compared with the momentous problems that were peacefully solved by the agreement
of the year 1890. Of what importance are Samoa, Kiao-chow, and the problem of Morocco, compared
with the questions of access to the great lakes of Africa and the control of the Lower Niger?
It would be unfair to Wilhelm II., as also to the Salisbury Cabinet, not to recognise the statesmanlike
qualities which led to the agreement of July 1, 1890--one of the most solid gains peacefully
achieved for the cause of civilisation throughout the nineteenth century.

Among its many benefits may be reckoned the virtual settlement of long and tangled disputes
for supremacy in Uganda. We have no space in which to detail the rivalries of French and British
missionaries and agents at the Court of King M'tesa and his successor M'wanga, or the futile
attempt of Dr. Peters to thrust in German influence. Even the Anglo-German agreement of 1890
did not end the perplexities of the situation; for though the British East Africa Company (to
which a charter had been granted in 1888) thenceforth had the chief influence on the northern
shores of Victoria Nyanza, the British Government declined to assume any direct responsibility
for so inaccessible a district. Thanks, however, to the activity and tact of Captain Lugard,
difficulties were cleared away, with the result that the large and fertile territory of Uganda
(formerly included in the Khedive's dominions) became a British Protectorate in August 1894
(see Chapter XVII).

The significance of the events just described will be apparent when it is remembered that British
East Africa, inclusive of Uganda and the Upper Nile basin, comprises altogether 670,000 square
miles, to a large extent fertile, and capable of settlement by white men in the more elevated
tracts of the interior. German East Africa contains 385,000 square miles, and is also destined
to have a future that will dwarf that of many of the secondary States of to-day.

The prosperity of British East Africa was greatly enhanced by the opening of a railway, 580
miles long, from Mombasa to Victoria Nyanza in 1902. Among other benefits, it has cut the ground
from under the slave-trade, which used to depend on the human beast of burden for the carriage
of all heavy loads[437].

[Footnote 437: For the progress and prospects of this important colony, see Sir G. Portal,
The British Mission to Uganda in 1893; Sir Charles Elliot, British East Africa (1905); also
Lugard, Our East African Empire; Sir H. Johnston, The Uganda Protectorate.]

The Anglo-German agreement of 1890 also cleared up certain questions between Britain and Germany
relating to South-West Africa which had made bad blood between the two countries. In and after
the year 1882 the attention of the colonial party in Germany was turned to the district north
of the Orange River, and in the spring of the year 1883 Herr Lüderitz founded a factory and
hoisted the German flag at Angra Pequeña. There are grounds for thinking that that district
was coveted, not so much for its intrinsic value, which is slight, as because it promised to
open up communications with the Boer Republics. Lord Granville ventured to express his doubts
on that subject to Count Herbert Bismarck, whom the Chancellor had sent to London in the summer
of 1884 in order to take matters out of the hands of the too Anglophil ambassador, Count Münster.
Anxious to show his mettle, young Bismarck fired up, and informed Lord Granville that his question
was one of mere curiosity; later on he informed him that it was a matter which did not concern
him[438].

[Footnote 438: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages of his History, vol. iii. p. 120.]

It must be admitted, however, that the British Government had acted in a dilatory and ineffective
manner. Sir Donald Currie had introduced a deputation to Lord Derby, Colonial Minister in the
Gladstone Cabinet, which warned him seriously as to German aims on the coast of Damaraland;
in reply to which that phlegmatic Minister stated that Germany was not a colonising Power,
and that the annexation of those districts would be resented by Great Britain as an "unfriendly
act[439]." In November 1883 the German ambassador inquired whether British protection would
be accorded to a few German settlers on the coast of Damaraland. No decisive answer was given,
though the existence of British interests there was affirmed. Then, when Germany claimed the
right to annex it, a counter-claim was urged from Whitehall (probably at the instigation of
the Cape Government) that the land in question was a subject of close interest to us, as it
might be annexed in the future. It was against this belated and illogical plea that Count Bismarck
was sent to lodge a protest; and in August 1884 Germany clinched the matter by declaring Angra
Pequeña and surrounding districts to be German territory. (See note at the end of the chapter.)

[Footnote 439: See Sir D. Currie's paper on South Africa to the members of the Royal Colonial
Institute, April 10, 1888 (Proceedings, vol. xix. p. 240).]

In this connection we may remark that Angra Pequeña had recently figured as a British settlement
on German maps, including that of Stieler of the year 1882. Walfisch Bay, farther to the north,
was left to the Union Jack, that flag having been hoisted there by official sanction in 1878
owing to the urgent representations of Sir Bartle Frere, the Governor of Cape Colony. The rest
of the coast was left to Germany; the Gladstone Government informed that of Berlin that no
objection would be taken to her occupation of that territory. Great annoyance was felt at the
Cape at what was looked on as an uncalled for surrender of British claims, especially when
the Home Government failed to secure just treatment for the British settlers. Sir Charles Dilke
states in his Problems of Greater Britain that only the constant protests of the Cape Ministry
prevented the authorities at Whitehall from complying with German unceasing requests for the
cession of Walfisch Bay, doubtless as an item for exchange during the negotiations of 1889-90[440].

[Footnote 440: Op. cit. vol. i. p. 502.]

We may add here that in 1886 Germany defined the northern limits of "South-West Africa"--such
was the name of the new colony--by an agreement with Portugal; and in 1890 an article of the
Anglo-German agreement above referred to gave an eastward extension of that northern border
which brought it to the banks of the River Zambesi.

The British Government took a firmer stand in a matter that closely concerned the welfare of
Natal and the relations of the Transvaal Republic to Germany. In 1884 some German prospectors
sought to gain a footing in St. Lucia Bay in Zululand and to hoist the German flag. The full
truth on this interesting matter is not yet known; it formed a pendant to the larger question
of Delagoa Bay, which must be briefly noticed here.

Friction had arisen between Great Britain and Portugal over conflicting claims respecting Delagoa
Bay and its adjoining lands; and in this connection it may be of interest to note that the
Disraeli Ministry had earlier missed an opportunity of buying out Portuguese claims. The late
Lord Carnarvon stated that, when he took the portfolio for colonial affairs in that Ministry,
he believed the purchase might have been effected for a comparatively small sum. Probably the
authorities at Lisbon were aroused to a sense of the potential value of their Laurenço Marquez
domain by the scramble for Africa which began early in the eighties; and it must be regretted
that the British Government, with the lack of foresight which has so often characterised it,
let slip the opportunity of securing Delagoa Bay until its value was greatly enhanced. It then
agreed to refer the questions in dispute to the arbitration of General MacMahon, President
of the French Republic (1875). As has generally happened when foreign potentates have adjudicated
on British interests, his verdict was wholly hostile to us. It even assigned to Portugal a
large district to the south of Delagoa Bay which the Portuguese had never thought of claiming
from its native inhabitants, the Tongas[441]. In fact, a narrative of all the gains which have
accrued to Portugal in Delagoa Bay, and thereafter to the people who controlled its railway
to Pretoria, would throw a sinister light on the connection that has too often subsisted between
the noble theory of arbitration and the profitable practice of peacefully willing away, or
appropriating, the rights and possessions of others. Portugal soon proved to be unable to avail
herself of the opportunities opened up by the gift unexpectedly awarded her by MacMahon. She
was unable to control either the Tongas or the Boers.

[Footnote 441: Sir C. Dilke, Problems of Greater Britain, vol. i. pp. 553-556.]

England having been ruled out, there was the chance for some other Power to step in and acquire
St. Lucia Bay, one of the natural outlets of the southern part of the Transvaal Republic. It
is an open secret that the forerunners of the "colonial party" in Germany had already sought
to open up closer relations with the Boer Republics. In 1876 the President of the Transvaal,
accompanied by a Dutch member of the Cape Parliament, visited Berlin, probably with the view
of reciprocating those advances. They had an interview with Bismarck, the details of which
are not fully known. Nothing, however, came of it at the time, owing to Bismarck's preoccupation
in European affairs. Early in the "eighties," the German colonial party, then beginning its
campaign, called attention repeatedly to the advantages of gaining a foothold in or near Delagoa
Bay; but the rise of colonial feeling in Germany led to a similar development in the public
sentiment of Portugal, and indeed of all lands; so that, by the time that Bismarck was won
over to the cause of Teutonic Expansion, the Portuguese refused to barter away any of their
ancient possessions. This probably accounts for the concentration of German energies on other
parts of the South African coast, which, though less valuable in themselves, might serve as
points d'appui for German political agents and merchants in their future dealings with the
Boers, who were then striving to gain control over Bechuanaland. The points selected by the
Germans for their action were on the coast of Damaraland, as already stated, and St. Lucia
Bay in Zululand, a position which President Burgers had striven to secure for the Transvaal
in 1878.

In reference to St. Lucia Bay our narrative must be shadowy in outline owing to the almost
complete secrecy with which the German Government wisely shrouds a failure. The officials and
newspaper writers of Germany have not yet contracted the English habit of proclaiming their
intentions beforehand and of parading before the world their recriminations in case of a fiasco.
All that can be said, then, with certainty is that in the autumn of 1884 a German trader named
Einwold attempted to gain a footing in St. Lucia Bay and to prepare the way for the recognition
of German claims if all went well. In fact, he could either be greeted as a Mehrer des Reichs,
or be disowned as an unauthorised busybody.

We may here cite passages from the Diary of Dr. Busch, Bismarck's secretary, which prove that
the State took a lively interest in Einwold's adventure. On February 25, 1885, Busch had a
conversation with Herr Andrae, in the course of which they "rejoiced at England's difficulties
in the Sudan, and I expressed the hope that Wolseley's head would soon arrive in Cairo, nicely
pickled and packed." Busch then referred to British friction with Russia in Afghanistan and
with France in Burmah, and then put the question to Andrae, "'Have we given up South Africa;
or is the Lucia Bay affair still open?' He said that the matter was still under consideration[442]."

[Footnote 442: Bismarck: Some Secret Pages of his History, vol. iii. p. 132.]

It has since transpired that the British Government might have yielded to pressure from Berlin,
had not greater pressure been exercised from Natal and from British merchants and shipowners
interested in the South African trade. Sir Donald Currie, in the paper already referred to,
stated that he could easily have given particulars of the means which had to be used in order
to spur on the British Government to decisive action. Unfortunately he was discreetly reticent,
and merely stated that not only St. Lucia Bay, but the whole of the coast between Natal and
the Delagoa Bay district was then in question, and that the Gladstone Ministry was finally
induced to telegraph instructions to Cape Town for the despatch of a cruiser to assert British
claims to St. Lucia Bay. H.M.S. Goshawk at once steamed thither, and hoisted the British flag,
by virtue of a treaty made with a Zulu chief in 1842. Then ensued the usual interchange of
angry notes between Berlin and London; Bismarck and Count Herbert sought to win over, or browbeat,
Lord Rosebery, then Colonial Minister. In this, however, he failed; and the explanation of
the failure given to Busch was that Lord Rosebery was too clever for him and "quite mesmerised
him." On May 7, 1885, Germany gave up her claims to that important position, in consideration
of gaining at the expense of England in the Cameroons[443]. Here again a passage from Busch's
record deserves quotation. In a conversation which he had with Bismarck on January 5, 1886,
he put the question:--

     "Why have we not been able to secure the Santa Lucia Bay?" I
     asked. "Ah!" he replied, "it is not so valuable as it seemed
     to be at first. People who were pursuing their own interests
     on the spot represented it to be of greater importance than
     it really was. And then the Boers were not disposed to take
     any proper action in the matter. The bay would have been
     valuable to us if the distance from the Transvaal were not so
     great. And the English attached so much importance to it that
     they declared it was impossible for them to give it up, and
     they ultimately conceded a great deal to us in New Guinea and
     Zanzibar. In colonial matters we must not take too much in
     hand at a time, and we already have enough for a beginning.
     We must now hold rather with the English, while, as you
     know, we were formerly more on the French side[444]. But, as
     the last elections in France show, every one of any
     importance there had to make a show of hostility to us."

[Footnote 443: Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 6 (1885), p. 2.]

[Footnote 444: He here referred to the Franco-German agreement of Dec. 24, 1885, whereby the
two Powers amicably settled the boundaries of their West African lands, and Germany agreed
not to thwart French designs on Tahiti, the Society Isles, the New Hebrides, etc. See Banning,
Le Partage politique de l'Afrique, pp. 22-26.]

This passage explains, in part at least, why Bismarck gave up the nagging tactics latterly
employed towards Great Britain. Evidently he had hoped to turn the current of thought in France
from the Alsace-Lorraine question to the lands over the seas, and his henchmen in the Press
did all in their power to persuade people, both in Germany and France, that England was the
enemy. The Anglophobe agitation was fierce while it lasted; but its artificiality is revealed
by the passage just quoted.

We may go further, and say that the more recent outbreak of Anglophobia in Germany may probably
be ascribed to the same official stimulus; and it too may be expected to cease when the politicians
of Berlin see that it no longer pays to twist the British lion's tail. That sport ceased in
and after 1886, because France was found still to be the enemy. Frenchmen did not speak much
about Alsace-Lorraine. They followed Gambetta's advice: "Never speak about it, but always think
of it." The recent French elections revealed that fact to Bismarck; and, lo! the campaign of
calumny against England at once slackened.

We may add that two German traders settled on the coast of Pondoland, south of Natal; and in
August 1885 the statesmen of Berlin put forth feelers to Whitehall with a view to a German
Protectorate of that coast. They met with a decisive repulse[445].

[Footnote 445: Cape Colony, Papers on Pondoland, 1887, pp. 1, 41. For the progress of German
South-West Africa and East Africa, see Parl. Papers, Germany, Nos. 474, 528, 2790.]

Meanwhile, the dead-set made by Germany, France, and Russia against British interests in the
years 1883-85 had borne fruit in a way little expected by those Powers, but fully consonant
with previous experience. It awakened British statesmen from their apathy, and led them to
adopt measures of unwonted vigour. The year 1885 saw French plans in Indo-China checked by
the annexation of Burmah. German designs in South Africa undoubtedly quickened the resolve
of the Gladstone Ministry to save Bechuanaland for the British Empire.

It is impossible here to launch upon the troublous sea of Boer politics, especially as the
conflict naturally resulting from two irreconcilable sets of ideas outlasted the century with
which this work is concerned. We can therefore only state that filibustering bands of Boers
had raided parts of Bechuanaland, and seemed about to close the trade-route northwards to the
Zambesi. This alone would have been a serious bar to the prosperity of Cape Colony; but the
loyalists had lost their confidence in the British Government since the events of 1880, while
a large party in the Cape Ministry, including at that time Mr. Cecil Rhodes, seemed willing
to abet the Boers in all their proceedings. A Boer deputation went to England in the autumn
of 1883, and succeeded in cajoling Lord Derby into a very remarkable surrender. Among other
things, he conceded to them an important strip of land west of the River Harts[446].

[Footnote 446: For the negotiations and the Convention of February 27, 1884, see Papers relating
to the South African Republic, 1887.]

Far from satisfying them, this act encouraged some of their more restless spirits to set up
two republics named Stellaland and Goshen. There, however, they met a tough antagonist, John
Mackenzie. That devoted missionary, after long acquaintance with Boers and Bechuanas, saw how
serious would be the loss to the native tribes and to the cause of civilisation if the raiders
were allowed to hold the routes to the interior. By degrees he aroused the sympathy of leading
men in the Press, who thereupon began to whip up the laggards of Whitehall and Downing Street.
Consequently, Mackenzie, on his return to South Africa, was commissioned to act as British
Resident in Bechuanaland, and in that capacity he declared that country to be under British
protection (May 1884). At once the Dutch throughout South Africa raised a hue and cry against
him, in which Mr. Rhodes joined, with the result that he was recalled on July 30.

His place was taken by a statesman whose exploits raised him to a high place among builders
of the Empire. However much Cecil Rhodes differed from Mackenzie on the native question and
other affairs, he came to see the urgent need of saving for the Empire the central districts
which, as an old Boer said, formed "the key of Africa." Never were the loyalists more dispirited
at the lack of energy shown by the Home Government; and never was there greater need of firmness.
In a sense, however, the action of the Germans on the coast of Damaraland (August-October 1884)
helped to save the situation. The imperious need of keeping open the route to the interior,
which would be closed to trade if ever the Boers and Germans joined hands, spurred on the Gladstone
Ministry to support the measures proposed by Mr. Rhodes and the loyalists of Cape Colony. When
the whole truth on that period comes to be known, it will probably be found that British rule
was in very grave danger in the latter half of the year 1884.

Certainly no small expedition ever accomplished so much for the Empire, at so trifling a cost
and without the effusion of blood, as that which was now sent out. It was entrusted to Sir
Charles Warren. He recruited his force mainly from the loyalists of South Africa, though a
body named Methuen's Horse went out from these islands. In all it numbered nearly 5000 men.
Moving quickly from the Orange River through Griqualand West, he reached the banks of the Vaal
at Barkly Camp by January 22, 1885, that is, only six weeks after his arrival at Cape Town.
At the same time 3000 troops took their station in the north of Natal in readiness to attack
the Transvaal Boers, should they fall upon Warren. It soon transpired, however, that the more
respectable Boers had little sympathy with the raiders into Bechuanaland. These again were
so far taken aback by the speed of his movements and the thoroughness of his organisation as
to manifest little desire to attack a force which seemed ever ready at all points and spied
on them from balloons. The behaviour of the commander was as tactful as his dispositions were
effective; and, as a result of these favouring circumstances (which the superficial may ascribe
to luck), he was able speedily to clear Bechuanaland of those intruders[447].

[Footnote 447: Sec Sir Charles Warren's short account of the expedition, in the Proceedings
of the Royal Colonial Institute for 1885-86, pp. 5-45; also Mackenzie's Austral Africa, vol.
ii. ad init., and John Mackenzie, by W.D. Mackenzie (1902).]

On September 30 it became what it has since remained--a British possession, safeguarding the
route into the interior and holding apart the Transvaal Boers from the contact with the Germans
of Damaraland which could hardly fail to produce an explosion. The importance of the latter
fact has already been made clear. The significance of the former will be apparent when we remember
that Mr. Rhodes, in his later and better-known character of Empire-builder, was able from Bechuanaland
as a base to extend the domain of his Chartered Company up to the southern end of Lake Tanganyika
in the year 1889.

It is well known that Rhodes hoped to extend the domain of his company as far north as the
southern limit of the British East Africa Company. Here, however, the Germans forestalled him
by their energy in Central Africa. Finally, the Anglo-German agreement of 1890 assigned to
Germany all the hinterland of Zanzibar as far west as the frontier of the Congo Free State,
thus sterilising the idea of an all-British route from the Cape to Cairo, which possessed for
some minds an alliterative and all-compelling charm.

As for the future of the vast territory which came to be known popularly as Rhodesia, we may
note that the part bordering on Lake Nyassa was severed from the South Africa Company in 1894,
and was styled the British Central Africa Protectorate. In 1895 the south of Bechuanaland was
annexed to Cape Colony, a step greatly regretted by many well-wishers of the natives. The intelligent
chief, Khama, visited England in that year, mainly in order to protest against the annexation
of his lands by Cape Colony and by the South Africa Company. In this he was successful; he
and other chiefs are directly under the protection of the Crown, but parts of the north and
east of Bechuanaland are administered by the British South Africa Company. The tracts between
the Rivers Limpopo and Zambesi, and thence north to the Tanganyika, form a territory vaster
and more populous than any which has in recent years been administered by a company; and its
rule leaves much to be desired.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is time now to turn to the expansion of German and British spheres of influence in the Bight
of Guinea and along the course of the Rivers Niger and Benuë. In the innermost part of the
Bight of Guinea, British commercial interests had been paramount up to about 1880; but about
that time German factories were founded in increasing numbers, and, owing to the dilatory action
of British firms, gained increasing hold on the trade of several districts. The respect felt
by native chiefs for British law was evinced by a request of five of the "Kings" of the Cameroons
that they might have it introduced into their lands (1879). Authorities at Downing Street and
Whitehall were deaf to the request. In striking contrast to this was the action of the German
Government, which early in the year 1884 sent Dr. Nachtigall to explore those districts. He
therefore requested that the British authorities there should be furnished with suitable recommendations
for his reception[448]. This was accordingly done, and, after receiving hospitality at various
consulates, he made treaties with native chiefs, and hoisted the German flag at several points
previously considered to be under British influence. This was especially the case on the coast
to the east of the River Niger.

[Footnote 448: Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 1 (1885), p. 14.]

The British Government was incensed at this procedure, and all the more so as plans were then
on foot for consolidating British influence in the Cameroons. On that river there were six
British, and two German firms, and the natives had petitioned for the protection of England;
but H.M.S. Flint, on steaming into that river on July 20, found that the German flag had been
hoisted by the officers of the German warship Möwe. Nachtigall had signed a treaty with "King
Bell" on July 12, whereby native habits were to remain unchanged and no customs dues levied,
but the whole district was placed under German suzerainty[449]. The same had happened at neighbouring
districts. Thereupon Consul Hewitt, in accordance with instructions from London, established
British supremacy at the Oil Rivers, Old and New Calabar, and several other points adjoining
the Niger delta as far west as Lagos.

[Footnote 449: Ibid. p. 24.]

For some time there was much friction between London and Berlin on these questions, but on
May 7, 1885, an agreement was finally arrived at, a line drawn between the Rio del Rey and
the Old Calabar River being fixed on as the boundary of the spheres of influence of the two
Powers, while Germany further recognised the sovereignty of Britain over St. Lucia Bay in Zululand,
and promised not to annex any land between Natal and Delagoa Bay[450]. Many censures were lavished
on this agreement, which certainly sacrificed important British interests in the Cameroons
in consideration of the abandonment of German claims on the Zulu coast which were legally untenable.
Thus, by pressing on various points formerly regarded as under British influence, Bismarck
secured at least one considerable district--one moreover that is the healthiest on the West
African coast. Subsequent expansion made of the Cameroons a colony containing some 140,000
square miles with more than 1,100,000 inhabitants.

[Footnote 450: Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 6 (1885), p. 2.]

It is an open secret that Germany was working hard in 1884-85 to get a foothold on the Lower
Niger and its great affluent, the Benuë. Two important colonial societies combined to send
out Herr Flegel in the spring of 1885 to secure possession of districts on those rivers where
British interests had hitherto been paramount. Fortunately for the cause of Free Trade (which
Germany had definitely abandoned in 1880) private individuals had had enough foresight and
determination to step in with effect, and to repair the harm which otherwise must have come
from the absorption of Mr. Gladstone and his colleagues in home affairs.

In the present case, British merchants were able to save the situation, because in the year
1879 the firms having important business dealings with the River Niger combined to form the
National African Company in order to withstand the threatening pressure of the French advance
soon to be described. In 1882 the Company's powers were extended, largely owing to Sir George
Taubman Goldie, and it took the name of the National African Company. Extending its operations
up the River Niger, it gradually cut the ground from under the French companies which had been
formed for the exploitation and ultimate acquisition of those districts, so that after a time
the French shareholders agreed to merge themselves in the British enterprise.

This important step was taken just in time to forestall German action from the side of the
Cameroons, which threatened to shut out British trade from the banks of the River Benuë and
the shores of Lake Chad. Forewarned of this danger, Sir George Goldie and his directors urged
that bold and successful explorer, Mr. Joseph Thomson, to safeguard the nation's interests
along the Benuë and north thereof. Thomson had scarcely recovered from the hardships of his
epoch-marking journey through Masailand; but he now threw himself into the breach, quickly
travelled from England to the Niger, and by his unrivalled experience alike of the means of
travel and of native ways, managed to frame treaties with the Sultans of Sokoto and Gando,
before the German envoy reached his destination (1885). The energy of the National African
Company and the promptitude and tact of Mr. Thomson secured for his countrymen undisputed access
to Lake Chad and the great country peopled by the warlike Haussas[451].

[Footnote 451: This greatest among recent explorers of Africa died in 1895. He never received
any appropriate reward from the Court for his great services to science and to the nation at
large.]

Seeing that both France and Germany seek to restrict foreign trade in their colonies, while
Great Britain gives free access to all merchants on equal terms, we may regard this brilliant
success as a gain, not only for the United Kingdom, but for the commerce of the world. The
annoyance expressed in influential circles in Germany at the failure of the plans for capturing
the trade of the Benuë district served to show the magnitude of the interests which had there
been looked upon as prospectively and exclusively German. The delimitation of the new British
territory with the Cameroon territory and its north-eastern extension to Lake Chad was effected
by an Anglo-German agreement of 1886, Germany gaining part of the upper Benuë and the southern
shore of Lake Chad. In all, the territories controlled by the British Company comprised about
500,000 square miles (more than four times the size of the United Kingdom).

It is somewhat characteristic of British colonial procedure in that period that many difficulties
were raised as to the grant of a charter to the company which had carried through this work
of national importance; but on July 10, 1886, it gained that charter with the title of the
Royal Niger Company. The chief difficulties since that date have arisen from French aggressions
on the west, which will be noticed presently.

In 1897 the Royal Niger Company overthrew the power of the turbulent and slave-raiding Sultan
of Nupe, near the Niger, but, as has so often happened, the very success of the company doomed
it to absorption by the nation. On January 1, 1900, its governing powers were handed over to
the Crown; the Union Jack replaced the private flag; and Sir Frederick Lugard added to the
services which he had rendered to the Empire in Uganda by undertaking the organisation of this
great and fertile colony. In an interesting paper, read before the Royal Geographical Society
in November 1903, he thus characterised his administrative methods: "To rule through the native
chiefs, and, while checking the extortionate levies of the past, fairly to assess and enforce
the ancient tribute. By this means a fair revenue will be assured to the emirs, in lieu of
their former source of wealth, which consisted in slaves and slave-raiding, and in extortionate
taxes on trade. . . . Organised slave-raiding has become a thing of the past in the country
where it lately existed in its worst form." He further stated that the new colony has made
satisfactory progress; but light railways were much needed to connect Lake Chad with the Upper
Nile and with the Gulf of Guinea. The area of Nigeria (apart from the Niger Coast Protectorate)
is about 500,000 square miles[452].

[Footnote 452: The Geographical Journal, January 1, 1904, pp. 5, 18, 27.]

The result, then, of the activity of French and Germans in West Africa has, on the whole, not
been adverse to British interests. The efforts leading to these noteworthy results above would
scarcely have been made but for some external stimulus. As happened in the days of Dupleix
and Montcalm, and again at the time of the little-known efforts of Napoleon I. to appropriate
the middle of Australia, the spur of foreign competition furthered not only the cause of exploration
but also the expansion of the British Empire.

       *       *       *       *       *

The expansion of French influence in Africa has been far greater than that of Germany; and,
while arousing less attention on political grounds, it has probably achieved more solid results--a
fact all the more remarkable when we bear in mind the exhaustion of France in 1871, and the
very slow growth of her population at home. From 1872 to 1901 the number of her inhabitants
rose from 36,103,000 to 38,962,000; while in the same time the figures for the German Empire
showed an increase from 41,230,000 to 56,862,000. To some extent, then, the colonial growth
of France is artificial; at least, it is not based on the imperious need which drives forth
the surplus population of Great Britain and Germany. Nevertheless, so far as governmental energy
and organising skill can make colonies successful, the French possessions in West Africa, Indo-China,
Madagascar, and the Pacific, have certainly justified their existence[453]. No longer do we
hear the old joke that a French colonial settlement consists of a dozen officials, a restaurateur,
and a hair-dresser.

[Footnote 453: See La Colonisation chez les Peuples modernes, by Paul Leroy-Beaulieu; Discours
et Opinions, by Jules Ferry; La France coloniale (6th edit. 1893), by Alfred Rambaud; La Colonisation
de l'Indo-Chine (1902), by Chailley-Bert; L'Indo-Chine française (1905), by Paul Doumer (describing
its progress under his administration); Notre Epopée coloniale (1901), by P. Legendre; La Mise
en Valeur de notre Domaine coloniale (1903), by C. Guy; Un Siècle d'Expansion coloniale (1900),
by M. Dubois and A. Terrier; Le Partage de l'Afrique (1898), by V. Deville.]

In the seventies the French Republic took up once more the work of colonial expansion in West
Africa, in which the Emperor Napoleon III. had taken great interest. The Governor of Senegal,
M. Faidherbe, pushed on expeditions from that colony to the head waters of the Niger in the
years 1879-81. There the French came into collision with a powerful slave-raiding chief, Samory,
whom they worsted in a series of campaigns in the five years following. Events therefore promised
to fulfil the desires of Gambetta, who, during his brief term of office in 1881, initiated
plans for the construction of a trans-Saharan railway (never completed) and the establishment
of two powerful French companies on the Upper Niger. French energy secured for the Republic
the very lands which the great traveller Mungo Park first revealed to the gaze of civilised
peoples. It is worthy of note that in the year 1865 the House of Commons, when urged to promote
British trade and influence on that mighty river, passed a resolution declaring that any extension
of our rule in that quarter was inexpedient. So rapid, however, was the progress of the French
arms on the Niger, and in the country behind our Gold Coast settlements, that private individuals
in London and Liverpool began to take action. Already in 1878 the British firms trading with
the Lower Niger had formed the United African Company, with the results noted above. A British
Protectorate was also established in the year 1884 over the coast districts around Lagos, "with
the view of guarding their interests against the advance of the French and Germans[454]."

[Footnote 454: For its progress see Colonial Reports, Niger Coast Protectorate, for 1898-99.
For the Anglo-French agreement of August 10, 1889, see Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 3 (1890).]

Meanwhile the French were making rapid progress under the lead of Gallieni and Archinard. In
1890 the latter conquered Segu-Sikoro, and a year later Bissandugu. A far greater prize fell
to the tricolour at the close of 1893. Boiteux and Bonnier succeeded in leading a flotilla
and a column to the mysterious city of Timbuctu; but a little later a French force sustained
a serious check from the neighbouring tribes. The affair only spurred on the Republic to still
greater efforts, which led finally to the rout of Samory's forces and his capture in the year
1898. That redoubtable chief, who had defied France for fifteen years, was sent as a prisoner
to Gaboon.

These campaigns and other more peaceful "missions" added to the French possessions a vast territory
of some 800,000 square kilometres in the basin of the Niger. Meanwhile disputes had occurred
with the King of Dahomey, which led to the utter overthrow of his power by Colonel Dodds in
a brilliant little campaign in 1892. The crowned slave-raider was captured and sent to Martinique.

These rapid conquests, especially those on the Niger, brought France and England more than
once to the verge of war. In the autumn of the year 1897, the aggressions of the French at
and near Bussa, on the right bank of the Lower Niger, led to a most serious situation. Despite
its inclusion in the domains of the Royal Niger Company, that town was occupied by French troops.
At the Guildhall banquet (November 9), Lord Salisbury made the firm but really prudent declaration
that the Government would brook no interference with the treaty rights of a British company.
The pronouncement was timely; for French action at Bussa, taken in conjunction with the Marchand
expedition from the Niger basin to the Upper Nile at Fashoda (see Chapter XVII.), seemed to
betoken a deliberate defiance of the United Kingdom. Ultimately, however, the tricolour flag
was withdrawn from situations that were legally untenable. These questions were settled by
the Anglo-French agreement of 1898, which, we may add, cleared the ground for the still more
important compact of 1904.

       *       *       *       *       *

The limits of this chapter having already been passed, it is impossible to advert to the parts
played by Italy and Portugal in the partition of Africa. At best they have been subsidiary;
the colonial efforts of Italy in the Red Sea and in Somaliland have as yet produced little
else than disaster and disappointment. But for the part played by Serpa Pinto in the Zambesi
basin, the rôle of Portugal has been one of quiescence. Some authorities, as will appear in
the following chapter, would describe it by a less euphonious term; it is now known that slave-hunting
goes on in the upper part of the Zambesi basin owned by them. The French settlement at Obock,
opposite Perim, and the partition of Somaliland between England and Italy, can also only be named.

The general results of the partition of Africa may best be realised by studying the map at
the close of this volume, and by the following statistics as presented by Mr. Scott Keltie
in the Encyclopoedia Britannica:--

                                                        Square Miles.
     French territories in Africa (inclusive of
     the Sahara) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,804,974
     British (inclusive of the Transvaal and
     Orange River Colonies, but exclusive
     of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan--610,000
     square miles) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,713,910
     German. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   933,380
     Congo Free State. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   900,000
     Portuguese. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   790,124
     Italian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   188,500

These results correspond in the main to the foresight and energy displayed by the several States,
and to the initial advantages which they enjoyed on the coast of Africa. The methods employed
by France and Germany present a happy union of individual initiative with intelligent and persistent
direction by the State; for it must be remembered that up to the year 1880 the former possessed
few good bases of operation, and the latter none whatever. The natural portals of Africa were
in the hands of Great Britain and Portugal. It is difficult to say what would have been the
present state of Africa if everything had depended on the officials at Downing Street and Whitehall.
Certainly the expansion of British influence in that continent (apart from the Nile valley)
would have been insignificant but for the exertions of private individuals. Among them the
names of Joseph Thomson, Sir William Mackinnon, Sir John Kirk, Sir Harry Johnston, Sir George
Goldie, Sir Frederick Lugard, John Mackenzie, and Cecil Rhodes, will be remembered as those
of veritable Empire-builders.

Viewing the matter from the European standpoint, the partition of Africa may be regarded as
a triumph for the cause of peace. In the years 1880-1900, France, Germany, Great Britain, Portugal,
Italy, and Belgium came into possession of new lands far larger than those for which French
and British fleets and armies had fought so desperately in the eighteenth century. If we go
further back and think of the wars waged for the possession of the barrier towns of Flanders,
the contrast between the fruitless strifes of that age and the peaceful settlement of the affairs
of a mighty continent will appear still more striking. It is true, of course, that the cutting
up of the lands of natives by white men is as indefensible morally as it is inevitable in the
eager expansiveness of the present age. Further, it may be admitted that the methods adopted
towards the aborigines have sometimes been disgraceful. But even so, the events of the years
1880-1900, black as some of them are, compare favourably with those of the long ages when the
term "African trade" was merely a euphemism for slave-hunting.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.--The Parliamentary Papers on Angra Pequeña (1884) show that the dispute with Germany
was largely due to the desire of Lord Derby to see whether the Government of Cape Colony would
bear the cost of administration of that whole coast if it were annexed. Owing to a change of
Ministry at Cape Town early in 1884, the affirmative reply was very long in coming; and meantime
Germany took decisive action, as described on p. 524.

CHAPTER XIX

THE CONGO FREE STATE

     "The object which unites us here to-day is one of those which
     deserve in the highest degree to occupy the friends of
     humanity. To open to civilisation the only part of our globe
     where it has not yet penetrated, to pierce the darkness which
     envelops entire populations, is, I venture to say, a crusade
     worthy of this century of progress."--KING LEOPOLD II.,
     Speech to the Geographical Congress of 1876 at Brussels.

The Congo Free State owes its origin, firstly, to the self-denying pioneer-work of Livingstone;
secondly, to the energy of the late Sir H.M. Stanley in clearing up the problems of African
exploration which that devoted missionary had not fully solved, and thirdly, to the interest
which His Majesty, Leopold II., King of the Belgians, has always taken in the opening up of
that continent. It will be well briefly to note the chief facts which helped to fasten the
gaze of Europe on the Congo basin; for these events had a practical issue; they served to bring
King Leopold and Mr. Stanley into close touch with a view to the establishment of a settled
government in the heart of Africa.

In 1874 Mr. H.M. Stanley (he was not knighted until the year 1899) received a commission from
the proprietors of the Daily Telegraph to proceed to Central Africa in order to complete the
geographical discoveries which had been cut short by the lamented death of Livingstone near
Lake Bangweolo. That prince of explorers had not fully solved the riddle of the waterways of
Central Africa. He had found what were really the head waters of the Congo at and near Lake
Moero; and had even struck the mighty river itself as far down as Nyangwe; but he could not
prove that these great streams formed the upper waters of the Congo.

Stanley's journey in 1874-1877 led to many important discoveries. He first made clear the shape
and extent of Victoria Nyanza; he tracked the chief feeder of that vast reservoir; and he proved
that Lake Tanganyika drained into the River Congo. Voyaging down its course to the mouth, he
found great and fertile territories, thus proving what Livingstone could only surmise, that
here was the natural waterway into the heart of "the Dark Continent."

Up to the year 1877 nearly all the pioneer work in the interior of the Congo basin was the
outcome of Anglo-American enterprise. Therefore, so far as priority of discovery confers a
claim to possession, that claim belonged to the English-speaking peoples. King Leopold recognised
the fact and allowed a certain space of time for British merchants to enter on the possession
of what was potentially their natural "sphere of influence." Stanley, however, failed to convince
his countrymen of the feasibility of opening up that vast district to peaceful commerce. At
that time they were suffering from severe depression in trade and agriculture, and from the
disputes resulting from the Eastern Question both in the Near East and in Afghanistan. For
the time "the weary Titan" was preoccupied and could not turn his thoughts to commercial expansion,
which would speedily have cured his evils. Consequently, in November 1878, Stanley proceeded
to Brussels in order to present to King Leopold the opportunity which England let slip.

Already the King of the Belgians had succeeded in arousing widespread interest in the exploration
of Africa. In the autumn of 1876 he convened a meeting of leading explorers and geographers
of the six Great Powers and of Belgium for the discussion of questions connected with the opening
up of that continent; but at that time, and until the results of Stanley's journey were made
known, the King and his coadjutors turned their gaze almost exclusively on East Africa. It
is therefore scarcely appropriate for one of the Belgian panegyrists of the King to proclaim
that when Central Africa celebrates its Day of Thanksgiving for the countless blessings of
civilisation conferred by that monarch, it will look back on the day of meeting of that Conference
(Sept. 12, 1876) as the dawn of the new era of goodwill and prosperity[455]. King Leopold,
in opening the Conference, made use of the inspiring words quoted at the head of this chapter,
and asked the delegates to discuss the means to be adopted for "planting definitely the standard
of civilisation on the soil of Central Africa."

[Footnote 455: L'Afrique nouvelle. Par. E. Descamps, Brussels, Paris, 1903, p. 8.]

As a result of the Conference, "The International Association for the Exploration and Civilisation
of Africa" was founded. It had committees in most of the capitals of Europe, but the energy
of King Leopold, and the sums which he and his people advanced for the pioneer work of the
Association, early gave to that of Brussels a priority of which good use was made in the sequel[456].
The Great Powers were at this time distracted by the Russo-Turkish war and by the acute international
crisis that supervened. Thus the jealousies and weakness of the Great Powers left the field
free for Belgian activities, which, owing to the energy of a British explorer, were definitely
concentrated upon the exploitation of the Congo.

[Footnote 456: For details see J. de C. Macdonell, King Leopold II., p. 113.]

On November 25, 1878, a separate committee of the International Association was formed at Brussels
with the name of "Comité d'Études du Haut Congo." In the year 1879 it took the title of the
"International Association of the Congo," and for all practical purposes superseded its progenitor.
Outwardly, however, the Association was still international. Stanley became its chief agent
on the River Congo, and in the years 1879-1880 made numerous treaties with local chiefs. In
February 1880 he founded the first station of the Association at Vivi, and within four years
established twenty-four stations on the main river and its chief tributaries. The cost of these
explorations was largely borne by King Leopold.

The King also commissioned Lieutenant von Wissmann to complete his former work of discovery
in the great district watered by the River Kasai and its affluents; and in and after 1886 he
and his coadjutor, Dr. Wolf, greatly extended the knowledge of the southern and central parts
of the Congo basin[457]. In the meantime the British missionaries, Rev. W.H. Bentley and Rev.
G. Grenfell, carried on explorations, especially on the River Ubangi, and in the lands between
it and the Congo. The part which missionaries have taken in the work of discovery and pacification
entitles them to a high place in the records of equatorial exploration; and their influence
has often been exerted beneficially on behalf of the natives. We may add here that M. de Brazza
did good work for the French tricolour in exploring the land north of the Congo and Ubangi
rivers; he founded several stations, which were to develop into the great French Congo colony.

[Footnote 457: H. von Wissmann, My Second Journey through Equatorial Africa, 1891. Rev. W.H.
Bentley, Pioneering on the Congo, 2 vols.]

Meanwhile events had transpired in Europe which served to give stability to these undertakings.
The energy thrown into the exploration of the Congo basin soon awakened the jealousy of the
Power which had long ago discovered the mouth of the great river and its adjacent coasts. In
the years 1883, 1884, Portugal put forward a claim to the overlordship of those districts on
the ground of priority of discovery and settlement. On all sides that claim was felt to be
unreasonable. The occupation of that territory by the Portuguese had been short-lived, and
nearly all traces of it had disappeared, except at Kabinda and one or two points on the coast.
The fact that Diogo Cam and others had discovered the mouth of the Congo in the fifteenth century
was a poor argument for closing to other peoples, three centuries later, the whole of the vast
territory between that river and the mouth of the Zambesi. These claims raised the problem
of the Hinterland, that is, the ownership of the whole range of territory behind a coast line.
Furthermore, the Portuguese officials were notoriously inefficient and generally corrupt; while
the customs system of that State was such as to fetter the activities of trade with shackles
of a truly mediaeval type.

Over against these musty claims of Portugal there stood the offers of "The International Association
of the Congo" to bring the blessings of free trade and civilisation to downtrodden millions
of negroes, if only access were granted from the sea. The contrast between the dull obscurantism
of Lisbon and the benevolent intentions of Brussels struck the popular imagination. At that
time the eye of faith discerned in the King of the Belgians the ideal godfather of a noble
undertaking, and great was the indignation when Portugal interfered with freedom of access
to the sea at the mouth of the Congo. Various matters were also in dispute between Portugal
and Great Britain respecting trading rights at that important outlet; and they were by no means
settled by an Anglo-Portuguese Convention of February 26 (1884), in which Lord Granville, Foreign
Minister in the Gladstone Cabinet, was thought to display too much deference to questionable
claims. Protests were urged against this Convention, by the United States, France, and Germany,
with the result that the Lisbon Government proposed to refer all these matters to a Conference
of the Powers; and arrangements were soon made for the summoning of their representatives to
Berlin, under the presidency of Prince Bismarck.

Before the Conference met, the United States took the decisive step of recognising the rights
of the Association to the government of that river-basin (April 10, 1884)--a proceeding which
ought to have secured to the United States an abiding influence on the affairs of the State
which they did so much to create. The example set by the United States was soon followed by
the other Powers. In that same month France withdrew the objections which she had raised to
the work of the Association, and came to terms with it in a treaty whereby she gained priority
in the right of purchase of its claims and possessions. The way having been thus cleared, the
Berlin Conference met on November 15, 1884. Prince Bismarck suggested that the three chief
topics for consideration were (1) the freedom of navigation and of trade in the Congo area;
(2) freedom of navigation on the River Niger; (3) the formalities to be thenceforth observed
in lawful and valid annexations of territories in Africa. The British plenipotentiary, Sir
Edward Malet, however, pointed out that, while his Government wished to preserve freedom of
navigation and of trade upon the Niger, it would object to the formation of any international
commission for those purposes, seeing that Great Britain was the sole proprietory Power on
the Lower Niger (see Chapter XVIII.)[458]. This firm declaration possibly prevented the intrusion
of claims which might have led to the whittling down of British rights on that great river.
An Anglo-French Commission was afterwards appointed to supervise the navigation of the Niger.

[Footnote 458: See Protocols, Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 4 (1885), pp. 119 et seq.]

The main question being thus concentrated on the Congo, Portugal was obliged to defer to the
practically unanimous refusal of the Powers to recognise her claims over the lower parts of
that river; and on November 19 she conceded the principle of freedom of trade on those waters.
Next, it was decided that the Congo Association should acquire and hold governing rights over
nearly the whole of the vast expanse drained by the Congo, with some reservations in favour
of France on the north and Portugal on the south. The extension of the principle of freedom
of trade nearly to the Indian Ocean was likewise affirmed; and the establishment of monopolies
or privileges "of any kind" was distinctly forbidden within the Congo area.

An effort strictly to control the sale of intoxicating liquors to natives lapsed owing to the
strong opposition of Germany and Holland, though a weaker motion on the same all-important
matter found acceptance (December 22). On January 7, 1885, the Conference passed a stringent
declaration against the slave-trade:--". . . these regions shall not be used as markets or
routes of transit for the trade in slaves, no matter of what race. Each of these Powers binds
itself to use all the means at its disposal to put an end to this trade, and to punish those
engaged in it."

The month of February saw the settlement of the boundary claims with France and Portugal, on
bases nearly the same as those still existing. The Congo Association gained the northern bank
of the river at its mouth, but ceded to Portugal a small strip of coast line a little further
north around Kabinda. These arrangements were, on the whole, satisfactory to the three parties.
France now definitively gained by treaty right her vast Congo territory of some 257,000 square
miles in area, while Portugal retained on the south of the river a coast nearly 1000 miles
in length and a dominion estimated at 351,000 square miles. The Association, though handing
over to these Powers respectively 60,000 and 45,000 square miles of land which its pioneers
hoped to obtain, nevertheless secured for itself an immense territory of some 870,000 square miles.

The General Act of the Berlin Conference was signed on February 26, 1885. Its terms and those
of the Protocols prove conclusively that the governing powers assigned to the Congo Association
were assigned to a neutral and international State, responsible to the Powers which gave it
its existence. In particular, Articles IV. and V. of the General Act ran as follows:--

     Merchandise imported into these regions shall remain free
     from import and transit dues. The Powers reserve to
     themselves to determine, after the lapse of twenty years,
     whether this freedom of import shall be retained or not.

     No Power which exercises, or shall exercise, sovereign rights
     in the above mentioned regions shall be allowed to grant
     therein a monopoly or favour of any kind in matters of trade.
     Foreigners, without distinction, shall enjoy protection of
     their persons and property, as well as the right of acquiring
     and transferring movable and immovable possessions, and
     national rights and treatment in the exercise of their
     professions.

Before describing the growth of the Congo State, it is needful to refer to two preliminary
considerations. Firstly, it should be noted that the Berlin Conference committed the mistake
of failing to devise any means for securing the observance of the principles there laid down.
Its work, considered in the abstract, was excellent. The mere fact that representatives of
the Powers could meet amicably to discuss and settle the administration of a great territory
which in other ages would have provoked them to deadly strifes, was in itself a most hopeful
augury, and possibly the success of the Conference inspired a too confident belief in the effective
watchfulness of the Powers over the welfare of the young State to which they then stood as
godfathers. In any case it must be confessed that they have since interpreted their duties
in the easy way to which godfathers are all too prone. As in the case of the Treaty of Berlin
of 1878, so in that of the Conference of Berlin of 1885, the fault lay not in the promise but
in the failure of the executors to carry out the terms of the promise.

Another matter remains to be noted. It resulted from the demands urged by Portugal in 1883-84.
By way of retort, the plenipotentiaries now declared any occupation of territory to be valid
only when it had effectively taken place and had been notified to all the Powers represented
at the Conference. It also defined a "sphere of influence" as the area within which one Power
is recognised as possessing priority of claims over other States. The doctrine was to prove
convenient for expansive States in the future.

The first important event in the life of the new State was the assumption by King Leopold II.
of sovereign powers. All nations, and Belgium not the least, were startled by his announcement
to his Ministers, on April 16, 1885, that he desired the assent of the Belgian Parliament to
this proceeding. He stated that the union between Belgium and the Congo State would be merely
personal, and that the latter would enjoy, like the former, the benefits of neutrality. The
Parliament on April 28 gave its assent, with but one dissentient voice, on the understanding
stated above. The Powers also signified their approval. On August 1, King Leopold informed
them of the facts just stated, and announced that the new State took the title of the Congo
Free State (L'État indépendant du Congo)[459].

[Footnote 459: The Story of the Congo Free State, by H.W. Wack (New York, 1905), p. 101; Wauters,
L'État indépendant du Congo, pp. 36-37.]

Questions soon arose concerning the delimitation of the boundary with the French Congo territory;
and these led to the signing of a protocol at Brussels on April 29, 1887, whereby the Congo
Free State gave up certain of its claims in the northern part of the Congo region (the right
bank of the River Ubangi), but exacted in return the addition of a statement "that the right
of pre-emption accorded to France could not be claimed as against Belgium, of which King Leopold
is sovereign[460]."

[Footnote 460: The Congo State, by D.C. Boulger (London, 1896), p. 62.]

There seems, however, to be some question whether this clause is likely to have any practical
effect. The clause is obviously inoperative if Belgium ultimately declines to take over the
Congo territory, and there is at least the chance that this will happen. If it does happen,
King Leopold and the Belgian Parliament recognise the prior claim of France to all the Congolese
territory. The King and the Congo Ministers seem to have made use of this circumstance so as
to strengthen the financial relations of France to their new State in several ways, notably
in the formation of monopolist groups for the exploitation of Congoland. For the present we
may remark that by a clause of the Franco-Belgian Treaty of Feb. 5, 1895, the Government of
Brussels declared that it "recognises the right of preference possessed by France over its
Congolese possessions, in case of their compulsory alienation, in whole or in part[461]."

[Footnote 461: Cattier, Droit et Administration de l'État indépendent du Congo, p. 82.]

Meanwhile King Leopold proceeded as if he were the absolute ruler of the new State. He bestowed
on it a constitution on the most autocratic basis. M. Cattier, in his account of that constitution
sums it up by stating that

     The sovereign is the direct source of legislative, executive,
     and judiciary powers. He can, if he chooses, delegate their
     exercise to certain functionaries, but this delegation has no
     other source than his will. . . . He can issue rules, on which,
     so long as they last, is based the validity of certain acts
     by himself or by his delegates. But he can cancel these rules
     whenever they appear to him troublesome, useless, or
     dangerous. The organisation of justice, the composition of
     the army, financial systems, and industrial and commercial
     institutions--all are established solely by him in accordance
     with his just or faulty conceptions as to their usefulness or
     efficiency[462].

[Footnote 462: Cattier, op. cit. pp. 134-135.]

A natural outcome of such a line of policy was the gradual elimination of non-Belgian officials.
In July 1886 Sir Francis de Winton, Stanley's successor in the administration of the Congo
area, gave place to a Belgian "Governor-General," M. Janssen; and similar changes were made
in all grades of the service.

Meanwhile other events were occurring which enabled the officials of the Congo State greatly
to modify the provisions laid down at the Berlin Conference. These events were as follows.
For many years the Arab slave-traders had been extending their raids in easterly and south-easterly
directions, until they began to desolate the parts of the Congo State nearest to the great
lakes and the Bahr-el-Ghazal.

Their activity may be ascribed to the following causes. The slave-trade has for generations
been pursued in Africa. The negro tribes themselves have long practised it; and the Arabs,
in their gradual conquest of many districts of Central Africa, found it to be by far the most
profitable of all pursuits. The market was almost boundless; for since the Congress of Vienna
(1815) and the Congress of Verona (1822) the Christian Powers had forbidden their subjects
any longer to pursue that nefarious calling. It is true that kidnapping of negroes went on
secretly, despite all the efforts of British cruisers to capture the slavers. It is said that
the last seizure of a Portuguese schooner illicitly trading in human flesh was made off the
Congo coast as late as the year 1868[463]. But the cessation of the trans-Atlantic slave-trade
only served to stimulate the Arab man-hunters of Eastern Africa to greater efforts; and the
rise of Mahdism quickened the demand for slaves in an unprecedented manner. Thus, the hateful
trade went on apace, threatening to devastate the Continent which explorers, missionaries,
and traders were opening up.

[Footnote 463: A.J. Wauters, L'État indépendent du Congo, p. 52.]

The civilising and the devastating processes were certain soon to clash; and, as Stanley had
foreseen, the conflict broke out on the Upper Congo. There the slave-raiders, subsidised or
led by Arabs of Zanzibar, were specially active. Working from Ujiji and other bases, they attacked
some of the expeditions sent by the Congo Free State. Chief among the raiders was a half-caste
Arab negro nick-named Tipu Tib ("The gatherer of wealth"), who by his energy and cunning had
become practically the master of a great district between the Congo and Lake Tanganyika. At
first (1887-1888) the Congo Free State adopted Stanley's suggestion of appointing Tipu Tib
to be its governor of the Stanley Falls district, at a salary of £30 a month[464]. So artificial
an arrangement soon broke down, and war broke out early in 1892. The forces of the Congo Free
State, led by Commandants Dhanis and Lothaire, and by Captain S.L. Hinde, finally worsted the
Arabs after two long and wearisome campaigns waged on the Upper Congo. Into the details of
the war it is impossible to enter. The accounts of all the operations, including that of Captain
Hinde[465], are written with a certain reserve; and the impression that the writers were working
on behalf of civilisation and humanity is somewhat blurred by the startling admissions made
by Captain Hinde in a paper read by him before the Royal Geographical Society in London, on
March 11, 1895. He there stated that the Arabs, "despite their slave-raiding propensities,"
had "converted the Manyema and Malela country into one of the most prosperous in Central Africa."
He also confessed that during the fighting the two flourishing towns, Nyangwe and Kasongo,
had been wholly swept away. In view of these statements the results of the campaign cannot
be regarded with unmixed satisfaction.

[Footnote 464: Stanley, In Darkest Africa, vol. i. pp. 60-70.]

[Footnote 465: The Fall of the Congo Arabs, by Capt. S.L. Hinde (London, 1897).]

Such, however, was not the view taken at the time. Not long before, the Continent had rung
with the sermons and speeches of Cardinal Lavigerie, Bishop of Algiers, who, like a second
Peter the Hermit, called all Christians to unite in a great crusade for the extirpation of
slavery. The outcome of it all was the meeting of an Anti-Slavery Conference at Brussels, at
the close of 1889, in which the Powers that had framed the Berlin Act again took part. The
second article passed at Brussels asserted among other things the duties of the Powers "in
giving aid to commercial enterprises to watch over their legality, controlling especially the
contracts for service entered into with natives." The abuses in the trade in firearms were
to be carefully checked and controlled.

Towards the close of the Conference a proposal was brought forward (May 10, 1890) to the effect
that, as the suppression of the slave-trade and the work of upraising the natives would entail
great expense, it was desirable to annul the clause in the Berlin Act prohibiting the imposition
of import duties for, at least, twenty years from that date (that is, up to the year 1905).
The proposal seemed so plausible as to disarm the opposition of all the Powers, except Holland,
which strongly protested against the change. Lord Salisbury's Government neglected to safeguard
British interests in this matter; and, despite the unremitting opposition of the Dutch Government,
the obnoxious change was finally registered on January 2, 1892, it being understood that the
duties were not to exceed 10 per cent ad valorem except in the case of spirituous liquors,
and that no differential treatment would be accorded to the imports of any nation or nations.

Thus the European Powers, yielding to the specious plea that they must grant the Congo Free
State the power of levying customs dues in order to further its philanthropic aims, gave up
one of the fundamentals agreed on at the Berlin Conference. The raison d'être of the Congo
Free State was, that it stood for freedom of trade in that great area; and to sign away one
of the birthrights of modern civilisation, owing to the plea of a temporary want of cash in
Congoland, can only be described as the act of a political Esau. The General Act of the Brussels
Conference received a provisional sanction (the clause respecting customs dues not yet being
definitively settled) on July 2, 1890[466].

[Footnote 466: On August 1, 1890, the Sultan of Zanzibar declared that no sale of slaves should
thenceforth take place in his dominions. He also granted to slaves the right of appeal to him
in case they were cruelly treated. See Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 1 (1890-91).]

On the next day the Congo Free State entered into a financial arrangement with the Belgian
Government which marked one more step in the reversal of the policy agreed on at Berlin five
years previously. In this connection we must note that King Leopold by his will, dated August
2, 1889, bequeathed to Belgium after his death all his sovereign rights over that State, "together
with all the benefits, rights and advantages appertaining to that sovereignty." Apparently,
the occasion that called forth the will was the urgent need of a loan of 10,000,000 francs
which the Congo State pressed the Belgian Government to make on behalf of the Congo railway.
Thus, on the very eve of the summoning of the European Conference at Brussels, the Congo Government
(that is, King Leopold) had appealed, not to the Great Powers, but to the Belgian Government,
and had sought to facilitate the grant of the desired loan by the prospect of the ultimate
transfer of his sovereign rights to Belgium.

Unquestionably the King had acted very generously in the past toward the Congo Association
and State. It has even been affirmed that his loans often amounted to the sum of 40,000,000
francs a year; but, even so, that did not confer the right to will away to any one State the
results of an international enterprise. As a matter of fact, however, the Congo State was at
that time nearly bankrupt; and in this circumstance, doubtless, may be found an explanation
of the apathy of the Powers in presence of an infraction of the terms of the Berlin Act of 1885.

We are now in a position to understand more clearly the meaning of the Convention of July 3,
1890, between the Congo Free State and the Belgian Government. By its terms the latter pledged
itself to advance a loan of 25,000,000 francs to the Congo State in the course of ten years,
without interest, on condition that at the close of six months after the expiration of that
time Belgium should have the right of annexing the Free State with all its possessions and
liabilities.

Into the heated discussions which took place in the Belgian Parliament in the spring and summer
of 1901 respecting the Convention of July 3, 1890, we cannot enter. The King interfered so
as to prevent the acceptance of a reasonable compromise proposed by the Belgian Prime Minister,
M. Beernaert; and ultimately matters were arranged by a decree of August 7, 1901, which will
probably lead to the transference of King Leopold's sovereign rights to Belgium at his death.
In the meantime, the entire executive and legislative control is vested in him, and in a Colonial
Minister and Council of four members, who are responsible solely to him, though the Minister
has a seat in the Belgian Parliament[467]. To King Leopold, therefore, belongs the ultimate
responsibility for all that is done in the Congo Free State. As M. Cattier phrased it in the
year 1898: "Belgium has no more right to intervene in the internal affairs of the Congo than
the Congo State has to intervene in Belgian affairs. As regards the Congo Government, Belgium
has no right either of intervention, direction, or control[468]."

[Footnote 467: H.R. Fox-Bourne, Civilisation in Congoland p. 277.]

[Footnote 468: M. Cattier, op. cit. p. 88.]

Very many Belgians object strongly to the building up of an imperium in imperio in their land;
and the wealth which the ivory and rubber of the Congo brings into their midst (not to speak
of the stock-jobbing and company-promoting which go on at Brussels and Antwerp), does not blind
them to the moral responsibility which the Belgian people has indirectly incurred. It is true
that Belgium has no legal responsibility, but the State which has lent a large sum to the Congo
Government, besides providing the great majority of the officials and exploiters of that territory,
cannot escape some amount of responsibility. M. Vandervelde, leader of the Labour Party in
Belgium, has boldly and persistently asserted the right of the Belgian people to a share in
the control of its eventual inheritance, but hitherto all the efforts of his colleagues have
failed before the groups of capitalists who have acquired great monopolist rights in Congoland.

Having now traced the steps by which the Congolese Government reached its present anomalous
position, we will proceed to give a short account of its material progress and administration.

No one can deny that much has been done in the way of engineering. A light railway has been
constructed from near Vivi on the Lower Congo to Stanley Pool, another from Boma into the districts
north of that important river port. Others have been planned, or are already being constructed,
between Stanley Falls and the northern end of Lake Tanganyika, with a branch to the Albert
Nyanza. Another line will connect the upper part of the River Congo with the westernmost affluent
of the River Kasai, thus taking the base of the arc instead of the immense curve of the main
stream. By the year 1903, 480 kilometres of railway were open for traffic, while 1600 more
were in course of construction or were being planned. It seems that the first 400 kilometres,
in the hilly region near the seaboard, cost 75,000,000 francs in place of the 25,000,000 francs
first estimated[469]. Road-making has also been pushed on in many directions. A flotilla of
steamers plies on the great river and its chief affluents. In 1885 there were but five; the
number now exceeds a hundred. As many as 1532 kilometres of telegraphs are now open. The exports
advanced from 1,980,441 francs in 1885-86 to 50,488,394 francs in 1901-02, mainly owing to
the immense trade in rubber, of which more anon; the imports from 9,175,103 francs in 1893
to 23,102,064 in 19O1-O2[470].

[Footnote 469: L'Afrique nouvelle, by E. Descamps (1903), chap. xv. Much of the credit of the
early railway-making was due to Colonel Thys.]

[Footnote 470: Ibid. pp. 589-590.]

Far more important is the moral gain which has resulted from the suppression of the slave-trade
over a large part of the State. On this point we may quote the testimony of Mr. Roger Casement,
British Consul at Boma, in an official report founded on observations taken during a long tour
up the Congo. He writes: "The open selling of slaves and the canoe convoys which once navigated
the Upper Congo have everywhere disappeared. No act of the Congo State Government has perhaps
produced more laudable results than the vigorous suppression of this widespread evil[471]."

[Footnote 471: Parl. Papers, Africa, No. I (1904), p. 26.]

King Leopold has also striven hard to extend the bounds of the Congo State. Not satisfied with
his compact with France of April 1887, which fixed the River Ubangi and its tributaries as
the boundary of their possessions, he pushed ahead to the north-east of those confines, and
early in the nineties established posts at Lado on the White Nile and in the Bahr-el-Ghazal
basin. Clearly his aim was to conquer the districts which Egypt for the time had given up to
the Mahdi. These efforts brought about sharp friction between the Congolese authorities and
France and Great Britain. After long discussions the Cabinet of London agreed to the convention
of May 12, 1894, whereby the Congo State gained the Bahr-el-Ghazal basin and the left bank
of the Upper Nile, together with a port on the Albert Nyanza. On his side, King Leopold recognised
the claims of England to the right bank of the Nile and to a strip of land between the Albert
Nyanza and Lake Tanganyika. Owing to the strong protests of France and Germany this agreement
was rescinded, and the Cabinet of Paris finally compelled King Leopold to give up all claims
to the Bahr-el-Ghazal, though he acquired the right to lease the Lado district below the Albert
Nyanza. The importance of these questions in the development of British policy in the Nile
basin has been pointed out in Chapter XVII.

The ostensible aim, however, of the founders of the Congo Free State was, not the exploitation
of the Upper Nile district, the making of railways and the exportation of great quantities
of ivory and rubber from Congoland, but the civilising and uplifting of Central Africa. The
General Act of the Berlin Conference begins with an invocation to Almighty God; and the Brussels
Conference imitated its predecessor in this particular. It is, therefore, as a civilising and
moralising agency that the Congo Government will always be judged at the bar of posterity.

The first essential of success in dealing with backward races is sympathy with their most cherished
notions. Yet from the very outset one of these was violated. On July 1, 1885, a decree of the
Congo Free State asserted that all vacant lands were the property of the Government, that is,
virtually of the King himself. Further, on June 30, 1887, an ordinance was decreed, claiming
the right to let or sell domains, and to grant mining or wood-cutting rights on any land, "the
ownership of which is not recognised as appertaining to any one." These decrees, we may remark,
were for some time kept secret, until their effects became obvious.

All who know anything of the land systems of primitive peoples will see that they contravened
the customs which the savage holds dear. The plots actually held and tilled by the natives
are infinitesimally small when compared with the vast tracts over which their tribes claim
hunting, pasturage, and other rights. The land system of the savage is everywhere communal.
Individual ownership in the European sense is a comparatively late development. The Congolese
authorities must have known this; for nearly all troubles with native races have arisen from
the profound differences in the ideas of the European and the savage on the subject of land-holding.

Yet, in face of the experience of former times, the Congo State put forward a claim which has
led, or will lead, to the confiscation of all tribal or communal land-rights in that huge area.
Such confiscation may, perhaps, be defended in the case of the United States, where the new-comers
enormously outnumbered the Red Indians, and tilled land that previously lay waste. It is indefensible
in the tropics, where the white settlers will always remain the units as compared with the
millions whom they elevate or exploit[472]. The savage holds strongly to certain rudimentary
ideas of justice, especially to the right, which he and his tribe have always claimed and exercised,
of using the tribal land for the primary needs of life. When he is denied the right of hunting,
cutting timber, or pasturage, he feels "cribbed, cabined, and confined." This, doubtless, is
the chief source of the quarrels between the new State and its protégés, also of the depression
of spirits which Mr. Casement found so prevalent. The best French authorities on colonial development
now admit that it is madness to interfere with the native land tenures in tropical Africa.

The method used in the enlisting of men for public works and for the army has also caused many
troubles. This question is admittedly one of great difficulty. Hard work must be done, and,
in the tropics, the white man can only direct it. Besides, where life is fairly easy, men will
not readily come forward to labour. Either the inducement offered must be adequate, or some
form of compulsory enlistment must be adopted. The Belgian officials, in the plentiful lack
of funds that has always clogged their State, have tried compulsion, generally through the
native chiefs. These are induced, by the offer of cotton cloth or bright-coloured handkerchiefs,
to supply men from the tribe. If the labourers are not forthcoming, the chief is punished,
his village being sometimes burned. By means, then, of gaudy handkerchiefs, or firebrands,
the labourers are obtained. They figure as "apprentices," under the law of November 8, 1888,
which accorded "special protection to the blacks."

[Footnote 472: The number of whites in Congoland is about 1700, of whom 1060 are Belgians;
the blacks number about 29,000,000, according to Stanley; the Belgian Governor-General, Wahis,
thinks this below the truth. See Wauters, L'État indépendant du Congo, pp. 261, 432.]

The British Consul, Mr. Casement, in his report on the administration of the Congo, stated
that the majority of the government workmen at Léopoldville were under some form of compulsion,
but were, on the whole, well cared for[473].

[Footnote 473: Parl. Papers, Africa, No. 1 (1904), p. 27.]

According to a German resident in Congoland, the lot of the apprentices differs little from
that of slaves. Their position, as contrasted with that of their former relation to the chief,
is humorously defined by the term libérés[474] The hardships of the labourers on the State
railways were such that the British Government refused to allow them to be recruited from Sierra
Leone or other British possessions.

[Footnote 474: A. Boshart, Zehn Jahre Afrikanischen Lebens (1898), quoted by Fox Bourne, op.
cit. p. 77. For further details see the article by Mr. Glave, once an official of the Congo
Free State, in the Century Magazine, vol. liii.; also his work, Six Years in the Congo (1892).]

However, now that a British Cabinet has allowed a great colony to make use of indentured yellow
labour in its mines, Great Britain cannot, without glaring inconsistency, lodge any protest
against the infringement, in Congoland, of the Act of the Berlin Conference in the matter of
the treatment of hired labourers. If the lot of the Congolese apprentices is to be bettered,
the initiative must be taken at some capital other than London.

Another subject which nearly concerns the welfare of the Congo State is the recruiting and
use of native troops. These are often raised from the most barbarous tribes of the far interior;
their pay is very small; and too often the main inducement to serve under the blue banner with
the golden star, is the facility for feasting and plunder at the expense of other natives who
have not satisfied the authorities. As one of them naïvely said to Mr. Casement, he preferred
to be with the hunters rather than with the hunted.

It seems that grave abuses first crept in during the course of the campaign for the extirpation
of slavery and slave-raiding in the Stanley Falls region. The Arab slave-raiders were rich,
not only in slaves, but in ivory--prizes which tempted the cupidity of the native troops, and
even, it is said, of their European officers. In any case, it is certain that the liberating
forces, hastily raised and imperfectly controlled, perpetrated shocking outrages on the tribes
for whose sake they were waging war. The late Mr. Glave, in the article in the Century Magazine
above referred to, found reason for doubting whether the crusade did not work almost as much
harm as the evils it was sent to cure. His words were these: "The black soldiers are bent on
fighting and raiding; they want no peaceful settlement. They have good rifles and ammunition,
realise their superiority over the natives with their bows and arrows, and they want to shoot
and kill and rob. Black delights to kill black, whether the victim be man, woman, or child,
and no matter how defenceless." This deep-seated habit of mind is hard to eradicate; and among
certain of the less reputable of the Belgian officers it has occasionally been used, in order
to terrorise into obedience tribes that kicked against the decrees of the Congo State.

Undoubtedly there is great difficulty in avoiding friction with native tribes. All Governments
have at certain times and places behaved more or less culpably towards them. British annals
have been fouled by many a misdeed on the part of harsh officials and grasping pioneers, while
recent revelations as to the treatment of natives in Western Australia show the need of close
supervision of officials even in a popularly governed colony. The record of German East Africa
and the French Congo is also very far from clean. Still, in the opinion of all who have watched
over the welfare of the aborigines--among whom we may name Sir Charles Dilke and Mr. Fox Bourne--the
treatment of the natives in a large part of the Congo Free State has been worse than in the
districts named above[475]. There is also the further damning fact that the very State which
claimed to be a great philanthropic agency has, until very recently, refused to institute any
full inquiry into the alleged defects of its administration.

[Footnote 475: Sir Charles Dilke stated this very forcibly in a speech delivered at the Holborn
Town Hall on June 7, 1905.]

Some of these defects may be traced to the bad system of payment of officials. Not only are
they underpaid, but they have no pension, such as is given by the British, French, and Dutch
Governments to their employees. The result is that the Congolese officer looks on his term
of service in that unhealthy climate as a time when he must enrich himself for life. Students
of Roman History know that, when this feeling becomes a tradition, it is apt to lead to grave
abuses, the recital of which adds an undying interest to the speech of Cicero against Verres.
In the case of the Congolese administrators the State provided (doubtless unwittingly) an incentive
to harshness. It frequently supplemented its inadequate stipends by "gratifications," which
are thus described and criticised by M. Cattier: "The custom was introduced of paying to officials
prizes proportioned to the amount of produce of the 'private domain' of the State, and of the
taxes paid by the natives. That amounted to the inciting, by the spur of personal interest,
of officials to severity and to rigour in the application of laws and regulations." Truly,
a more pernicious application of the plan of "payment by results" cannot be conceived; and
M. Cattier affirms that, though nominally abolished, it existed in reality down to the year 1898.

Added to this are defects arising from the uncertainty of employment. An official may be discharged
at once by the Governor-General on the ground of unfitness for service in Africa; and the man,
when discharged, has no means of gaining redress. The natural result is the growth of a habit
of almost slavish obedience to the authorities, not only in regard to the written law, but
also to private and semi-official intimations[476].

[Footnote 476: Cattier, Droit et Administration . . . du Congo, pp. 243-245.]

Another blot on the record of the Congo Free State is the exclusive character of the trading
corporation to which it has granted concessions. Despite the promises made to private firms
that early sought to open up business in its land, the Government itself has become a great
trading corporation, with monopolist rights which close great regions to private traders and
subject the natives to vexatious burdens. This system took definite form in September 1891,
when the Government claimed exclusive rights in trade in the extreme north and north-east.
At the close of that year Captain Baert, the administrator of these districts, also enjoined
the collection of rubber and other products by the natives for the benefit of the State.

The next step was to forbid to private traders in that quarter the right of buying these products
from natives. In May 1892 the State monopoly in rubber, etc., was extended to the "Equator"
district, natives not being allowed to sell them to any one but a State official. Many of the
merchants protested, but in vain. The chief result of their protest was the establishment of
privileged companies, the "Société Anversoise" and the "Anglo-Belgian," and the reservation
to the State of large areas under the title of Domaines privés (Oct. 1892)[477]. The apologetic
skill of the partisans of the Congo State is very great; but it will hardly be equal to the
task of proving that this new departure is not a direct violation of Article V. of the General
Act of the Berlin Conference of 1885, quoted above.

[Footnote 477: For a map of the domains now appropriated by these and other privileged "Trusts,"
see Morel, op. cit. p. 466.]

A strange commentary on the latter part of that article, according full protection to all foreigners,
was furnished by the execution of the ex-missionary, Stokes, at the hands of Belgian officials
in 1895--a matter for which the Congo Government finally made grudging and incomplete reparation[478].
Another case was as bad. In 1901 an Austrian trader, Rabinek, was arrested and imprisoned for
"illegal" trading in rubber in the "Katanga Trust" country. Treated unfeelingly during his
removal down the country, he succumbed to fever. His effects were seized and have not been
restored to his heirs[479].

[Footnote 478: See the evidence in Parl. Papers, Africa. No. 8 (1896).]

[Footnote 479: Morel, op. cit. chaps. xxiii.-xxv.]

When such treatment is meted out to white men who pursued their trade in reliance on the original
constitution of the State, the natives may be expected to fare badly. Their misfortunes thickened
when the Government, on the plea that natives must contribute towards the expenses of the State,
began to require them to collect and hand in a certain amount of rubber. The evidence of Mr.
Casement clearly shows that the natives could not understand why this should suddenly be imposed
on them; that the amount claimed was often excessive; and that the punishment meted out for
failure to comply with the official demands led to many barbarous actions on the part of officials
and their native troops. Thus, at Bolobo, he found large numbers of industrious workers in
iron who had fled from the "Domaine de la Couronne" (King Leopold's private domain) because
"they had endured such ill-treatment at the hands of the Government officials and Government
soldiers in their own country that life had become intolerable, that nothing had remained for
them at home but to be killed for failure to bring in a certain amount of rubber, or to die
of starvation or exposure in their attempts to satisfy the demands made upon them[480]."

[Footnote 480: Parl. Papers, Africa, No. I (1904), pp. 29, 60. A missionary, Rev. J. White-head,
wrote in July 1903: "During the past seven years this 'domaine privé' of King Leopold has been
a veritable 'hell on earth.'" (Ibid. p. 64).]

On the north side of Lake Mantumba Mr. Casement found that the population had diminished by
60 or 70 per cent since the imposition of the rubber tax in 1893--a fact, however, which may
be partly assigned to the sleeping sickness. The tax led to constant fighting, until at last
the officials gave up the effort and imposed a requisition of food or gum-copal; the change
seems to have been satisfactory there and in other parts where it has been tried. In the former
time the native soldiers punished delinquents with mutilation: proofs on this subject here
and in several other places were indisputable. On the River Lulongo, Mr. Casement found that
the amount of rubber collected from the natives generally proved to be in proportion to the
number of guns used by the collecting force[481]. In some few cases natives were shot, even
by white officers, on account of their failure to bring in the due amount of rubber[482]. A
comparatively venial form of punishment was the capture and detention of wives until their
husbands made up the tale. Is it surprising that thousands of the natives of the north have
fled into French Congoland, itself by no means free from the grip of monopolist companies,
but not terrorised as are most of the tribes of the "Free State"?

[Footnote 481: Ibid. pp. 34, 43, 44, 49, 76, etc.]

[Footnote 482: Ibid. p. 70. The effort made by the Chevalier De Cuvelier to rebut Mr. Casement's
charges consists mainly of an ineffective tu quoque. To compare the rubber-tax of the Congo
State with the hut-tax of Sierra Leone begs the whole question. Mr. Casement proves (p. 27)
that the natives do not object to reasonable taxation which comes regularly. They do object
to demands for rubber which are excessive and often involve great privations. Above all, the
punishments utterly cow them and cause them to flee to the forests.

The efforts of Mr. Macdonnell in King Leopold II. (London, 1905) to refute Mr. Casement also
seem to me weak and inconclusive. The reply of the Congo Free State is printed by Mr. H.W.
Wack in the Appendix of his Story of the Congo Free State (New York, 1905). It convicts Mr.
Casement of inaccuracy on a few details. Despite all that has been written by various apologists,
it may be affirmed that the Congo Free State has yet made no adequate defence. Possibly it
will appear in the report which, it is hoped, will be published in full by the official commission
of inquiry now sitting.]

Livingstone, in his day, regarded ivory as the chief cause of the slave-trade in Central and
Eastern Africa; but it is questionable whether even ivory (now a vanishing product) brought
more woe to millions of negroes than the viscous fluid which enables the pleasure-seekers of
Paris, London, and New York to rush luxuriously through space. The swift Juggernaut of the
present age is accountable for as much misery as ever sugar or ivory was in the old slave days.
But it seems that, so long as the motor-car industry prospers, the dumb woes of the millions
of Africa will count for little in the Courts of Europe. During the session of 1904 Lord Lansdowne
made praiseworthy efforts to call their attention to the misgovernment of the Congo State;
but he met with no response except from the United States, Italy, and Turkey(!) A more signal
proof of the weakness and cynical selfishness now prevalent in high quarters has never been
given than in this abandonment of a plain and bounden duty.

A slight amount of public spirit on the part of the signatories of the Berlin Act would have
sufficed to prevent Congolese affairs drifting into the present highly anomalous situation.
That land is not Belgian, and it is not international--except in a strictly legal sense. It
is difficult to say what it is if it be not the private domain of King Leopold and of several
monopolist-controlling trusts. Probably the only way out of the present slough of despond is
the definite assumption of sole responsibility by the Belgian people; for it should be remembered
that a very large number of patriotic Belgians urgently long to redress evils for which they
feel themselves to be indirectly, and to a limited extent, chargeable. At present, those who
carefully study the evidence relating to the Berlin Conference of 1885, and the facts, so far
as they are ascertainable to-day, must pronounce the Congo experiment to be a terrible failure.

CHAPTER XX

RUSSIA IN THE FAR EAST

     "This war, waged . . . for the command of the waters of the
     Pacific Ocean, so urgently necessary for the peaceful
     prosperity, not only of our own, but of other nations."--The
     Czar's Proclamation of March 3, 1905.

Of all the collisions of racial interests that have made recent history, none has turned the
thoughts of the world to regions so remote, and events so dramatic in their intensity and momentous
in their results, as that which has come about in Manchuria. The Far Eastern Question is the
outcome of the expansion of two vigorous races, that of Russia and Japan, at the expense of
the almost torpid polity of China. The struggle has taken place in the debatable lands north
and west of Korea, where Tartars and Chinese formerly warred for supremacy, and where geographical
and commercial considerations enhance the value of the most northerly of the ice-free ports
of the Continent of Asia.

In order to understand the significance of this great struggle, we must look back to the earlier
stages of the extension of Russian influence. Up to a very recent period the eastern growth
of Russia affords an instance of swift and natural expansion. Picture on the one side a young
and vigorous community, dowered with patriotic pride by the long and eventually triumphant
conflict with the Tartar hordes, and dwelling in dreary plains where Nature now and again drives
men forth on the quest for a sufficiency of food. On the other hand, behold a vast territory,
well-watered, with no natural barrier between the Urals and the Pacific, sparsely inhabited
by tribes of nomads having little in common. The one active community will absorb the ill-organised
units as inevitably as the rising tide overflows the neighbouring mud-flats when once the intervening
barrier is overtopped. In the case of Russia and Siberia the only barrier is that of the Ural
Mountains; and their gradual slopes form a slighter barrier than is anywhere else figured on
the map of the world in so conspicuous a chain. The Urals once crossed, the slopes and waterways
invite the traveller eastwards.

The French revolutionists of 1793 used to say, "With bread and iron one can get to China."
Russian pioneers had made good that boast nearly two centuries before it was uttered in Paris.
The impelling force which set in motion the Muscovite tide originated with a man whose name
is rarely heard outside Russia. Yet, if the fame of men were proportionate to the effect of
their exploits, few names would be more widely known than that of Jermak. This man had been
a hauler of boats up the banks of the Volga, until his strength, hardihood, and love of adventure
impelled him to a freebooting life, wherein his powers of command and the fierce thoroughness
of his methods speedily earned him the name of Jermak, "the millstone." In the year 1580, the
wealthy family of the Stroganoffs, tempted by stories of the wealth to be gained from the fur-bearing
animals of Siberia, turned their thoughts to Jermak and his robber band as the readiest tools
for the conquest of those plains. The enterprise appealed to Jermak and the hardy Cossacks
with whom he had to do. He and his men were no less skilled in river craft than in fighting;
and the roving Cossack spirit kindled at the thought of new lands to harry. Proceeding by boat
from Perm, they worked their way into the spurs of the Urals, and then by no very long portage
crossed one of its lower passes and found themselves on one of the tributaries of the Obi.

Thenceforth their course was easy. Jermak and his small band of picked fighters were more than
a match for the wretchedly armed and craven-spirited Tartars, who fled at the sound of firearms.
In 1581 the settlement, called Sibir, fell to the invaders; and, though they soon abandoned
this rude encampment for a new foundation, the town of Tobolsk, yet the name Siberia recalls
their pride at the conquest of the enemy's capital. The traditional skill of the Cossacks in
the handling of boats greatly aided their advance, and despite the death of Jermak in battle,
his men pressed on and conquered nearly the half of Siberia within a decade. What Drake and
the sea-dogs of Devon were then doing for England on the western main, was being accomplished
for Russia by the ex-pirate and his band from the Volga. The two expansive movements were destined
finally to meet on the shores of the Pacific in the northern creeks of what is now British
Columbia.

The later stages in Russian expansion need not detain us here. The excellence of the Cossack
methods in foraying, pioneer-work, and the forming of military settlements, consolidated the
Muscovite conquests. The Tartars were fain to submit to the Czar, or to flee to the nomad tribes
of Central Asia or Northern China. The invaders reached the River Lena in the year 1630; and
some of their adventurers voyaged down the Amur, and breasted the waves of the Pacific in 1636.
Cossack bands conquered Kamchatka in 1699-1700[483].

[Footnote 483: Vladimir, Russia en the Pacific.]

Meanwhile the first collision between the white and the yellow races took place on the River
Amur, which the Chinese claimed as their own. At first the Russians easily prevailed; but in
the year 1689 they suffered a check. New vigour was then manifested in the councils of Pekin,
and the young Czar, Peter the Great, in his longing for triumphs over Swedes and Turks, thought
lightly of gains at the expense of the "celestials." He therefore gave to Russian energies
that trend westwards and southwards, which after him marked the reigns of Catharine II., Alexander
I., and, in part, of Nicholas I. The surrender of the Amur valley to China in 1689 ended all
efforts of Russia in that direction for a century and a half. Many Russians believe that the
earlier impulse was sounder and more fruitful in results for Russia than her meddling in the
wars of the French Revolution and Empire.

Not till 1846 did Russia resume her march down the valley of the Amur; and then the new movement
was partly due to British action. At that time the hostility of Russia and Britain was becoming
acute on Asiatic and Turkish questions. Further, the first Anglo-Chinese War (1840-42) led
to the cession of Hong-Kong to the distant islanders, who also had five Chinese ports opened
to their trade. This enabled Russia to pose as the protector of China, and to claim points
of vantage whence her covering wings might be extended over that Empire. The statesmen of Pekin
had little belief in the genuineness of these offers, especially in view of the thorough exploration
of the Amur region and the Gulf of Okhotsk which speedily ensued.

The Czar, in fact, now inaugurated a forward Asiatic policy, and confided it to an able governor,
Muravieff (1847). The new departure was marked by the issue of an imperial ukase (1851) ordering
the Russian settlers beyond Lake Baikal to conform to the Cossack system; that is, to become
liable to military duties in return for the holding of land in the more exposed positions.
Three years later Muravieff ordered 6000 Cossacks to migrate from these trans-Baikal settlements
to the land newly acquired from China on the borders of Manchuria[484]. In the same year the
Russians established a station at the mouth of the Amur, and in 1853 gained control over part
of the Island of Saghalien.

[Footnote 484: Popowski, The Rival Powers in Central Asia, p. 13.]

For the present, then, everything seemed to favour Russia's forward policy. The tribes on the
Amur were passive; an attack of an Anglo-French squadron on Petropaulovsk, a port in Kamchatka,
failed (Aug. 1854); and the Russians hoped to be able to harry British commerce from this and
other naval bases in the Pacific. Finally, the rupture with England and France, and the beginning
of the Taeping rebellion in China, induced the Court of Pekin to agree to Russia's demands
for the Amur boundary, and for a subsequent arrangement respecting the ownership of the districts
between the mouth of that river and the bay on which now stands the port of Vladivostok (May
15, 1858). The latter concession left the door open for Muravieff to push on Russia's claims
to this important wedge of territory. His action was characteristic. He settled Cossacks along
the River Ussuri, a southern tributary of the Amur, and, by pressing ceaselessly on the celestials
(then distracted by a war with England and France), he finally brought them to agree to the
cession of the district around the new settlement, which was soon to receive the name of Vladivostok
("Lord of the East"). He also acquired for the Czar the Manchurian coast down to the bounds
of Korea (November 2, 1860). Russia thus threw her arms around the great province which had
provided China with her dynasty and her warrior caste, and was still one of the wealthiest
and most cherished lands of that Empire. Having secured these points of vantage in Northern
China, the Muscovites could await with confidence further developments in the decay of that
once formidable organism.

Such, in brief, is the story of Russian expansion from the Urals to the Sea of Japan. Probably
no conquest of such magnitude was ever made with so little expenditure of blood and money.
In one sense this is its justification, that is, if we view the course of events, not by the
limelight of abstract right, but by the ordinary daylight of expediency. Conquests which strain
the resources of the victors and leave the vanquished longing for revenge, carry their own
condemnation. On the other hand, the triumph of Russia over the ill-organised tribes of Siberia
and northern Manchuria reminds one of the easy and unalterable methods of Nature, which compels
a lower type of life to yield up its puny force for the benefit of a higher. It resembles the
victory of man over quadrupeds, of order over disorder, of well-regulated strength over weakness
and stupidity.

Muravieff deserves to rank among the makers of modern Russia. He waited his time, used his
Cossack pawns as an effective screen to each new opening of the game, and pushed his foes hardest
when they were at their weakest. Moreover, like Bismarck, he knew when to stop. He saw the
limit that separated the practicable from the impracticable. He brought the Russian coast near
to the latitudes where harbours are free from ice; but he forbore to encroach on Korea--a step
which would have brought Japan on to the field of action. The Muscovite race, it was clear,
had swallowed enough to busy its digestive powers for many a year; and it was partly on his
advice that Russian North America was sold to the United States.

Still, Russia's advance southwards towards ice-free ports was only checked, not stopped. In
1861 a Russian man-of-war took possession of the Tshushima Isles between Korea and Japan, but
withdrew on the protest of the British admiral. Six years later the Muscovites strengthened
their grip on Saghalien, and thereafter exercised with Japan joint sovereignty over that island.
The natural result followed. In 1875 Russia found means to eject her partner, the Japanese
receiving as compensation undisputed claim to the barren Kuriles, which they already possessed[485].

[Footnote 485: The Russo-Japanese Conflict, by K. Asakawa (1904), p. 67; Europe and the Far
East, by Sir R.K. Douglas (1904), p. 191.]

Even before this further proof of Russia's expansiveness, Japan had seen the need of adapting
herself to the new conditions consequent on the advent of the Great Powers in the Far East.
This is not the place for a description of the remarkable Revolution of the years 1867-71.
Suffice it to say that the events recounted above undoubtedly helped on the centralising of
the powers in the hands of the Mikado, and the Europeanising of the institutions and armed
forces of Japan. In face of aggressions by Russia and quarrels with the maritime Powers, a
vigorous seafaring people felt the need of systems of organisation and self-defence other than
those provided by the rule of feudal lords, and levies drilled with bows and arrows. The subsequent
history of the Far East may be summed up in the statement that Japan faced the new situation
with the brisk adaptability of a maritime people, while China plodded along on her old tracks
with a patience and stubbornness eminently bovine.

The events which finally brought Russia and Japan into collision arose out of the obvious need
for the construction of a railway from St. Petersburg to the Pacific having its terminus on
an ice-free port. Only so could Russia develop the resources of Siberia and the Amur Province.
In the sixties and seventies trans-continental railways were being planned and successfully
laid in North America. But there is this difference: in the New World the iron horse has been
the friend of peace; in the Far East of Asia it has hurried on the advent of war; and for this
reason, that Russia, having no ice-free harbour at the end of her great Siberian line, was
tempted to grasp at one which the yellow races looked on as altogether theirs.

The miscalculation was natural. The rapid extension of trade in the Pacific Ocean seemed to
invite Russia to claim her full share in a development that had already enriched England, the
United States, and, later, Germany and France; and events placed within the Muscovite grasp
positions which fulfilled all the conditions requisite for commercial prosperity and military
and naval domination.

For many years past vague projects of a trans-Siberian railway had been in the air. In 1857
an English engineer offered to construct a horse tramway from Perm, across the Urals, and to
the Pacific. An American also proposed to make a railway for locomotives from Irkutsk to the
head waters of the Amur. In 1875 the Russian Government decided to construct a line from Perm
as far as a western affluent of the River Obi; but owing to want of funds the line was carried
no farther than Tiumen on the River Tobol (1880).

The financial difficulty was finally overcome by the generosity of the French, who, as we have
already seen (Chapter XII.), late in the eighties began to subscribe to all the Russian loans
placed on the Paris Bourse. The scheme now became practicable, and in March 1891 an imperial
ukase appeared sanctioning the mighty undertaking. It was made known at Vladivostok by the
Czarevitch (now Nicholas II.) in the course of a lengthy tour in the Far East; and he is known
then to have gained that deep interest in those regions which has moulded Russian policy throughout
his reign. Quiet, unostentatious, and even apathetic on most subjects, he then, as we may judge
from subsequent events, determined to give to Russian energies a decided trend towards the
Pacific. As Czar, he has placed that aim in the forefront of his policy. With him the Near
East has always been second to the Far East; and in the critical years 1896-97, when the sufferings
of Christians in Turkey became acute, he turned a deaf ear to the cries of myriads who had
rarely sent their prayers northwards in vain. The most reasonable explanation of this callousness
is that Nicholas II. at that time had no ears save for the call of the Pacific Ocean. This
was certainly the policy of his Ministers, Prince Lobánoff, Count Muravieff, and Count Lamsdorff.
It was oceanic.

The necessary prelude to Russia's new policy was the completion of the trans-Siberian railway,
certainly one of the greatest engineering feats ever attempted by man. While a large part of
the route offers no more difficulty than the conquest of limitless levels, there are portions
that have taxed to the utmost the skill and patience of the engineer. The deep trough of Lake
Baikal has now (June 1905) been circumvented by the construction of a railway (here laid with
double tracks) which follows the rocky southern shore. This part of the line, 244 versts (162
miles) long, has involved enormous expense. In fifty-six miles there are thirty-nine tunnels,
and thirteen galleries for protection against rock-slides. This short section is said to have
cost £1,170,000. The energy with which the Government pushed on this stupendous work during
the Russo-Japanese war yields one more proof of their determination to secure at all costs
the aims which they set in view in and after the year 1891[486].

[Footnote 486: See an article by Mr. J.M. Price in The Fortnightly Review for May 1905.]

Other parts of the track have also presented great difficulties. East of Lake Baikal the line
gradually winds its way up to a plateau some 3000 feet higher than the lake, and then descends
to treacherous marsh lands. The district of the Amur bristles with obstacles, not the least
being the terrible floods that now and again (as in 1897) turn the whole valley into a trough
of swirling waters[487].

[Footnote 487: Russia on the Pacific, by "Vladimir"; The Awakening of the East, by P. Leroy-Beaulieu,
chaps, ix. x.]

All these difficulties have been overcome in course of time; but there remained the question
of the terminus. Up to the year 1894 the objective had been Vladivostok; but the outbreak of
the Chino-Japanese War at that time opened up vast possibilities. Russia could either side
with the islanders and share with them the spoils of Northern China, or, posing as the patron
of the celestials, claim some profitable douceurs as her reward.

She chose the latter alternative, and, in the opinion of some of her own writers, wrongly.
The war proved the daring, the patriotism, and the organising skill of the Japanese to be as
signal as the sloth and corruptibility of their foes. Then, for the first time, the world saw
the utter weakness of China--a fact which several observers (including Lord Curzon) had vainly
striven to make clear. Even so, when Chinese generals and armies took to their heels at the
slightest provocation; when their battleships were worsted by Japanese armoured cruisers; when
their great stronghold, Port Arthur, was stormed with a loss of about 400 killed, the moral
of it all was hidden from the wise men of the West. Patronising things were said of the Japanese
as conquerors--of the Chinese; but few persons realised that a new Power had arisen. It seemed
the easiest of undertakings to despoil the "venomous dwarfs" of the fruits of their triumph
over China[488].

[Footnote 488: See the evidence adduced by V. Chirol, The Far Eastern Question, chap, xi.,
as to the ultimately aggressive designs of China on Japan.]

The chief conditions of the Chino-Japanese Treaty of Shimonoseki (April 17, 1895) were the
handing over to Japan the island of Formosa and the Liaotung Peninsula. The latter was very
valuable, inasmuch as it contained good ice-free harbours which dominated the Yellow Sea and
the Gulf of Pechili; and herein must be sought the reason for the action of Russia at this
crisis. Li Hung Chang, the Chinese negotiator, had already been bought over by Russia in an
important matter[489], and he early disclosed the secret of the terms of peace with Japan.
Russia was thus forewarned; and, before the treaty was ratified at Pekin, her Government, acting
in concert with those of France and Germany, intervened with a menacing declaration that the
cession of the Liaotung Peninsula would give to Japan a dangerous predominance in the affairs
of China and disturb the whole balance of power in the Far East. The Russian Note addressed
to Japan further stated that such a step would "be a perpetual obstacle to the permanent peace
of the Far East." Had Russia alone been concerned, possibly the Japanese would have referred
matters to the sword; but, when face to face with a combination of three Powers, they decided
on May 4 to give way, and to restore the Liaotung Peninsula to China[490].

[Footnote 489: Manchu and Muscovite, by B.L. Putnam Weale, p. 60.]

[Footnote 490: Asakawa, op. cit. p, 76.]

The reasons for the conduct of France and Germany in this matter are not fully known. We may
safely conjecture that the Republic acted conjointly with the Czar in order to clinch the new
Franco-Russian alliance, not from any special regard for China, a Power with which she had
frequently come into collision respecting Tonquin. As for Germany, she was then entering on
new colonial undertakings; and she doubtless saw in the joint intervention of 1895 a means
of sterilising the Franco-Russian alliance, so far as she herself was concerned, and possibly
of gaining Russia's assent to the future German expansion in the Far East.

Here, of course, we are reduced to conjecture, but the conjecture is consonant with later developments.
In any case, the new Triple Alliance was a temporary and artificial union, which prompt and
united action on the part of Great Britain and the United States would have speedily dissolved.
Unfortunately these Powers were engrossed in other concerns, and took no action to redress
the balance which the self-constituted champions of political stability were upsetting to their
own advantage.

The effects of their action were diverse, and for the most part unforeseen. In the first place,
Japan, far from being discouraged by this rebuff, set to work to perfect her army and navy,
and with a thoroughness which Roon and Moltke would have envied. Organisation, weapons, drill,
marksmanship (the last a weak point in the war with China) were improved; heavy ironclads were
ordered, chiefly in British yards, and, when procured, were handled with wonderful efficiency.
Few, if any, of those "disasters" which are so common in the British navy in time of peace,
occurred in the new Japanese navy--a fact which redounds equally to the credit of the British
instructors and to the pupils themselves.

The surprising developments of the Far Eastern Question were soon to bring the new armaments
to a terrible test. Japan and the whole world believed that the Liaotung Peninsula was made
over to China in perpetuity. It soon appeared that the Czar and his Ministers had other views,
and that, having used France and Germany for the purpose of warning off Japan, they were preparing
schemes for the subjection of Manchuria to Russian influence. Or rather, it is probable that
Li Hung Chang had already arranged the following terms with Russia as the price of her intervention
on behalf of China. The needs of the Court of Pekin and the itching palms of its officials
proved to be singularly helpful in the carrying out of the bargain. China being unequal to
the task of paying the Japanese war indemnity, Russia undertook to raise a four per cent loan
of 400,000,000 francs--of course mainly at Paris--in order to cover the half of that debt.
In return for this favour, the Muscovites required the establishment of a Russo-Chinese Bank
having widespread powers, comprising the receipt of taxes, the management of local finances,
and the construction of such railway and telegraph lines as might be conceded by the Chinese
authorities.

This in itself was excellent "brokerage" on the French money, of which China was assumed to
stand in need. At one stroke Russia ended the commercial supremacy of England in China, the
result of a generation of commercial enterprise conducted on the ordinary lines, and substituted
her own control, with powers almost equal to those of a Viceroy. They enabled her to displace
Englishmen from various posts in Northern China and to clog the efforts of their merchants
at every turn. The British Government, we may add, showed a singular equanimity in face of
this procedure.

But this was not all. At the close of March 1896, it appeared that the gratitude felt by the
Chinese Andromeda to the Russian Perseus had ripened into a definite union. The two Powers
framed a secret treaty of alliance which accorded to the northern State the right to make use
of any harbour in China, and to levy Chinese troops in case of a conflict with an Asiatic State.
In particular, the Court of Pekin granted to its ally the free use of Port Arthur in time of
peace, or, if the other Powers should object, of Kiao-chau. Manchuria was thrown open to Russian
officers for purposes of survey, etc., and it was agreed that on the completion of the trans-Siberian
railway, a line should be constructed southwards to Talienwan or some other place, under the
joint control of the two Powers[491].

[Footnote 491: Asakawa, pp. 85-87.]

The Treaty marks the end of the first stage in the Russification of Manchuria. Another stage
was soon covered, and, as it seems, by the adroitness of Count Cassini, Russian Minister at
Pekin. The details, and even the existence, of the Cassini Convention of September 30, 1896,
have been disputed; but there are good grounds for accepting the following account as correct.
Russia received permission to construct her line to Vladivostok across Manchuria, thereby saving
the northern detour down the difficult valley of the Amur; also to build her own line to Mukden,
if China found herself unable to do so; and the line southwards to Talienwan and Port Arthur
was to be made on Russian plans. Further, all these new lines built by Russia might be guarded
by her troops, presumably to protect them from natives who objected to the inventions of the
"foreign devils." As regards naval affairs, the Czar's Government gained the right to "lease"
from China the harbour of Kiao-chau for fifteen years; and, in case of war, to make use of
Port Arthur. The last clauses granted to Russian subjects the right to acquire mining rights
in Manchuria, and to the Czar's officers to drill the levies of that province in the European
style, should China desire to reorganise them.[492]

[Footnote 492: Asakawa, chap. ii.]

But the protector had not reaped the full reward of his timely intervention in the spring of
1895. He had not yet gained complete control of an ice-free harbour. In fact, the prize of
Kiao-chau, nearly within reach, now seemed to be snatched from his grasp by Kaiser Wilhelm.
The details are well known. Two German subjects who were Roman Catholic missionaries in the
Shan-tung province were barbarously murdered by Chinese ruffians on November 1, 1897. The outrage
was of a flagrant kind, but in ordinary times would have been condoned by the punishment of
the offenders and a fine payable by the district. But the occasion was far from ordinary. A
German squadron therefore steamed into Kiao-chau and occupied that important harbour.

There is reason to think that Germany had long been desirous of gaining a foothold in that
rich province. The present writer has been assured by a geological expert, Professor Skertchley,
who made the first map of the district for the Chinese authorities, that that map was urgently
demanded by the German envoy at Pekin about this time. In any case, the mineral wealth of the
district undoubtedly influenced the course of events. In accordance with a revised version
of the old Christian saying: "The blood of the martyrs is the seed of--the Empire," the Emperor
William despatched his brother Prince Henry--the "mailed fist" of Germany--with a squadron
to strengthen the Imperial grip on Kiao-chau. The Prince did so without opposition either from
China or Russia. Finally, on March 5, 1898, the Court of Pekin confirmed to Germany the lease
of that port and of the neighbouring parts of the province of Shan-tung.

The whole affair caused a great stir, because it seemed to prelude a partition of China, and
that, too, in spite of the well-meaning declarations of the Salisbury Cabinet in favour, first,
of the integrity of that Empire, and, when that was untenable, of the policy of the "open door"
for traders of all nations. Most significant of all was the conduct of Russia. As far as is
known, she made no protest against the action of Germany in a district to which she herself
had laid claim. It is reasonable, on more grounds than one, to suppose that the two Powers
had come to some understanding, Russia conceding Kiao-chau to the Kaiser, provided that she
herself gained Port Arthur and its peninsula. Obviously she could not have faced the ill-will
of Japan, Great Britain, Germany, and the United States--all more or less concerned at her
rapid strides southward; and it is at least highly probable that she bought off Germany by
waiving her own claims to Kiao-chau, provided that she gained an ideal terminus for her Siberian
line, and a great naval and military stronghold. It is also worth noting that the first German
troops were landed at Kiao-chau on November 17, 1897, while three Russian warships steamed
into Port Arthur on December 18; and that the German "lease" was signed at Pekin on March 5,
1898; while that accorded to Russia bears date March 27[493].

[Footnote 493: Asakawa, p. 110, note.]

If we accept the naive suggestion of the Russian author, "Vladimir," the occupation of Kiao-chau
by Germany "forced" Russia "to claim some equivalent compensation." Or possibly the cession
of Port Arthur was another of the items in Li Hung Chang's bargain with Russia. In any case,
the Russian warships entered Port Arthur, at first as if for a temporary stay; when two British
warships repaired thither the Czar's Government requested them to leave--a request with which
the Salisbury Cabinet complied in an inexplicably craven manner (January 1898). Rather more
pressure was needed on the somnolent mandarins of Pekin; but, under the threat of war with
Russia if the lease of the Liao-tung Peninsula were not granted by March 27, it was signed
on that day. She thereby gained control of that peninsula for twenty-five years, a period which
might be extended "by mutual agreement." The control of all the land forces was vested in a
Russian official; and China undertook not to quarter troops to the north without the consent
of the Czar. Port Arthur was reserved to the use of Russian and Chinese ships of war; and Russia
gained the right to erect fortifications.

The British Government, which had hitherto sought to uphold the integrity of China, thereupon
sought to "save its face" by leasing Wei-hai-wei (July 1). An excuse for the weakness of the
Cabinet in Chinese affairs has been put forward, namely, that the issue of the Sudan campaign
was still in doubt, and that the efforts of French and Russians to reach the Upper Nile from
the French Congo and Southern Abyssinia compelled Ministers to concentrate their attention
on that great enterprise. But this excuse will not bear examination. Strength at any one point
of an Empire is not increased by discreditable surrenders at other points. No great statesman
would have proceeded on such an assumption.

Obviously the balance of gain in these shabby transactions in the north of China was enormously
in favour of Russia. She now pushed on her railway southwards with all possible energy. It
soon appeared that Port Arthur could not remain an open port, and it was closed to merchant
ships. Then Talienwan was named in place of it, but under restrictions which made the place
of little value to foreign merchants. Thereafter the new port of Dalny was set apart for purposes
of commerce, but the efficacy of the arrangements there has never been tested. In the intentions
of the Czar, Port Arthur was to become the Gibraltar of the Far East, while Dalny, as the commercial
terminus of the trans-Siberian line, figured as the Cadiz of the new age of exploration and
commerce opening out to the gaze of Russia.

That motives of genuine philanthropy played their part in the Far Eastern policy of the Czar
may readily be granted; but the enthusiasts who acclaimed him as the world's peacemaker at
the Hague Congress (May 1899) were somewhat troubled by the thought that he had compelled China
to cede to his enormous Empire the very peninsula, the acquisition of which by little Japan
had been declared to be an unwarrantable disturbance of the balance of power in the Far East.

These events caused a considerable sensation in Great Britain, even in a generation which had
become inured to "graceful concessions." In truth, the part played by her in the Far East has
been a sorry one; and if there be eager partisans who still maintain that British Imperialism
is an unscrupulously aggressive force, ever on the search for new enemies to fight and new
lands to annex, a course of study in the Blue Books dealing with Chinese affairs in 1897-99
may with some confidence be prescribed as a sedative and lowering diet. It seems probable that
the weakness of British diplomacy induced the belief at St. Petersburg that no opposition of
any account would be forthcoming. With France acting as the complaisant treasurer, and Germany
acquiescent, the Czar and his advisers might well believe that they had reached the goal of
their efforts, "the domination of the Pacific."

With the Boxer movement of the years 1899-1900 we have here no concern. Considered pathologically,
it was only the spasmodic protest of a body which the dissectors believed to be ready for operation.
To assign it solely to dislike of European missionaries argues sheer inability to grasp the
laws of evidence. Missionaries had been working in China for several decades, and were no more
disliked than other "foreign devils." The rising was clearly due to indignation at the rapacity
of the European Powers. We may note that it gave the Russian governor of the town of Blagovestchensk
an opportunity of cowing the Chinese of northern Manchuria by slaying and drowning some 4500
persons at that place (July 1900). Thereafter Russia invaded Manchuria and claimed the unlimited
rights due to actual conquest. On April 8, 1902, she promised to withdraw; but her persistent
neglect to fulfil that promise (cemented by treaty with China) led to the outbreak of hostilities
with Japan[494].

[Footnote 494: Asakawa, chap. vii.; and for the Korean Question, chaps. xvi, xvii]

We can now see that Russia, since the accession of Nicholas II., has committed two great faults
in the Far East. She has overreached herself; and she has overlooked one very important factor
in the problem--Japan. The subjects of the Mikado quivered with rage at the insult implied
by the seizure of Port Arthur; but, with the instinct of a people at once proud and practical,
they thrust down the flames of resentment and turned them into a mighty motive force. Their
preparations for war, steady and methodical before, now gained redoubled energy; and the whole
nation thrilled secretly but irresistibly to one cherished aim, the recovery of Port Arthur.
How great is the power of chivalry and patriotism the world has now seen; but it is apt to
forget that love of life and fear of death are feelings alike primal and inalienable among
the Japanese as among other peoples. The inspiring force which nerved some 40,000 men gladly
to lay down their lives on the hills around Port Arthur was the feeling that they were helping
to hurl back in the face of Russia the gauntlet which she had there so insolently flung down
as to an inferior race.

CHAPTER XXI

THE NEW GROUPING OF THE GREAT POWERS[495]

(1900-1907)

When I penned the words at the end of Chapter XX. it seemed probable that the mad race in armaments
must lead either to war or to revolution. In these three supplementary chapters I seek to trace
very briefly the causes that have led to war, in other words, to the ascendancy (perhaps temporary)
of the national principle over the social, and international tendencies of the age.

[Footnote 495: Written in May-July 1915.]

The collapse of the international and pacifist movement may be ascribed to various causes.
The Franco-German and Russo-Turkish Wars left behind rankling hatreds which rendered it very
difficult for nations to disarm; and, after the decline of those resentments, there arose others
as the outcome of the Greco-Turkish War and the Boer War. Further, the conflict between Japan
and Russia so far weakened the latter as to leave Germany and Austria almost supreme in Europe;
and, while in France and the United Kingdom the social movement has made considerable progress,
Germany and Austria have remained in what may be termed the national stage of development,
which offers many advantages over the international for purposes of war. Then again in the
Central Empires parliamentary institutions have not been successful, tending on the whole to
accentuate the disputes between the dominant and the subject races. The same is partially true
of Russia, and far more so of the Balkan States. Consequently, in Central and Eastern Europe
the national idea has become militant and aggressive; while Great Britain, the Netherlands,
and to some extent France, have sought as far as possible to concentrate their efforts upon
social legislation, arming only in self-defence. In this contrast lay one of the dangers of
the situation.

Nationality caused the movements and wars of 1848-77. Thereafter, that principle seemed to
wane. But it revived in redoubled force among the Balkan peoples owing partly to the brutal
oppressions of the Sublime Porte; and the cognate idea, aiming, however, not at liberty but
conquest, became increasingly popular with the German people after the accession of Kaiser
William II. The sequel is only too well known. Civilisation has been overwhelmed by a recrudescence
of nationalism, and the wealthiest age which the world has seen is a victim to the perfection
and potency of its machinery. A recovery of the old belief in the solidarity of mankind and
a conviction of the futility of all efforts for domination by any one people, are the first
requisites towards the recovery of conditions that make for peace and good-will.

Meanwhile, recent history has had to concern itself largely with groupings or alliances, which
have in the main resulted from ambition, distrust, or fear. As has already been shown, the
Partition of Africa was arranged without a resort to arms; but after that appropriation of
the lands of the dark races, the white peoples in the south came into collision late in 1899.

Much has been written as to the causes of the Boer War; but the secret encouragements which
those brave farmers received from Germany are still only partly known. Even in 1894 Mr. Merriman
warned Sir Edward Grey of the danger arising from "the steady way in which Krüger was Teutonising
the Transvaal." Germany undoubtedly stiffened the neck of Krüger and the reactionary Boers
in resisting the much-needed reforms. It is significant that the Kaiser's telegram to Krüger
after the defeat of Jameson's raiders was sent only a few days before his declaration, January
18, 1896, that Germany must now pursue a World-Policy, as she did by browbeating Japan in the
Far East. These developments had been rendered possible by the opening of the Kiel-North Sea
Canal in 1895, an achievement which doubled the naval power of Germany. Thenceforth she pushed
on construction, especially by the Navy Bill of 1898. Reliance on her largely accounts for
the obstinate resistance of the Boers to the just demands of England and the Outlanders in
1899. A German historian, Count Reventlow, has said that "a British South Africa could not
but thwart all German interests"; and the anti-British fury prevalent in Germany in and after
1899 augured ill for the preservation of peace in the twentieth century so soon as her new
fleet was ready[496].

[Footnote 496: E, Lewin, The Germans and Africa, p. xvii. and chaps. v.-xiii.; J.H. Rose, The
Origins of the War, Lectures I.-III.; Reventlow, Deutschlands auswärtige Politik, p. 71.]

The results of the Boer War were as follows. For the time Great Britain lost very seriously
in prestige and in material resources. Amidst the successes gained by the Boers, the intervention
of one or more European States in their favour seemed highly probable; and it is almost certain
that Krüger relied on such an event. He paid visits to some of the chief European capitals,
and was received by the French President (November 1900), but not by Kaiser William. The personality
and aims of the Kaiser will concern us later; but we may notice here that in that year he had
special reasons for avoiding a rupture with the United Kingdom. The Franco-Russian Alliance
gave him pause, especially since June 1898, when a resolute man, Delcassé, became Foreign Minister
at Paris and showed less complaisance to Germany than had of late been the case[497]. Besides,
in 1898, the Kaiser had concluded with Great Britain a secret arrangement on African affairs,
and early in 1900 acquired sole control of Samoa instead of the joint Anglo-American-German
protectorate, which had produced friction. Finally, in the summer of 1900, the Boxer Rising
in China opened up grave problems which demanded the co-operation of Germany and the United
Kingdom.

[Footnote 497: Delcassé was Foreign Minister in five Administrations until 1905.]

It has often been stated that the Kaiser desired to form a Coalition against Great Britain
during the Boer War; and it is fairly certain that he sounded Russia and France with a view
to joint diplomatic efforts to stop the war on the plea of humanity, and that, after the failure
of this device, he secretly informed the British Government of the danger which he claimed
to have averted[498]. His actions reflected the impulsiveness and impetuosity which have often
puzzled his subjects and alarmed his neighbours; but it seems likely that his aims were limited
either to squeezing the British at the time of their difficulties, or to finding means of breaking
up the Franco-Russian alliance. His energetic fishing in troubled waters caused much alarm;
but it is improbable that he desired war with Great Britain until his new navy was ready for
sea. The German Chancellor, Prince von Bülow, has since written as follows: "We gave England
no cause to thwart us in the building of our fleet: . . . we never came into actual conflict
with the Dual Alliance, which would have hindered us in the gradual acquisition of a navy[499]."
This, doubtless, was the governing motive in German policy, to refrain from any action that
would involve war, to seize every opportunity for pushing forward German claims, and, above
all, to utilise the prevalent irritation at the helplessness of Germany at sea as a means of
overcoming the still formidable opposition of German Liberals to the ever-increasing naval
expenditure.

[Footnote 498: Sir V. Chirol, Quarterly Review, Oct. 1914.]

[Footnote 499: Bülow, Imperial Germany, pp. 98-9 (Eng. transl.); Rachfahl, Kaiser und Reich
(p. 163), states that, as in 1900-1, the German fleet, even along with those of France and
Russia, was no match for the British fleet, Germany necessarily remained neutral. See, too,
Hurd and Castle, German Sea Power, chap. v.]

In order to discourage the futile anti-British diatribes in the German Press, Bülow declared
in the Reichstag that in no quarter was there an intention to intervene against England. There
are grounds for questioning the sincerity of this utterance; for the Russian statesman, Muraviev,
certainly desired to intervene, as did influential groups at Petrograd, Berlin, and Paris.
In any case, the danger to Great Britain was acute enough to evoke help from all parts of the
Empire, and implant the conviction of the need of closer union and of maintaining naval supremacy.
The risks of the years 1899-1902 also revealed the very grave danger of what had been termed
"splendid isolation," and aroused a desire for a friendly understanding with one or more Powers
as occasion might offer.

The war produced similar impressions on the German people. Dislike of England, always acute
in Prussia, especially in reactionary circles, now spread to all parts and all classes of the
nation; and the Kaiser, as we have seen, made skilful use of it to further his naval policy.
His speech at Hamburg on October 18, 1899, on the need of a great navy, marked the beginning
of a new era, destined to end in war with Great Britain. Admiral von Tirpitz, in introducing
the Amending Bill of February 1900, demanded the doubling of the navy in a scheme working automatically
until 1920. The Socialist leader, Bebel, opposed it as certain to strain relations with England,
a war with whom would be the greatest possible misfortune for the German people. On the other
hand, the Chancellor, Prince Hohenlohe, voiced the opinions of the governing class and the
German Navy League when he declared that the demand for a great navy originated in the ambition
of the German nation to become a World-Power[500]. The Bill passed; and thenceforth the United
Kingdom and Germany became declared rivals at sea. Fortunately for the islanders, the new German
Navy could not be ready for action before the year 1904; otherwise, a very dangerous situation
would have arisen. Even as it was, British statesmen were induced to secure an ally and to
end the Boer War as quickly as possible.

[Footnote 500: Prince Hohenlohe, Memoirs, vol. ii. p. 480.]

During that conflict the tension between England and the Dual Alliance (France and Russia)
was at times so acute as to render it doubtful whether we should not gravitate towards the
rival Triple Alliance. The problem was the most important that had confronted British statesmen
during a century. Kinship and tradition seemed to beckon us towards Germany and Austria. On
the other hand, democracy and social intercourse told in favour of the French connection. Further,
now that Russia was retiring more and more from her Balkan and Central Asian projects in order
to concentrate on the Far East, she ceased to threaten India and the Levant. Moreover, the
personality of the Tsar, Nicholas II., was reassuring, while that of Kaiser Wilhelm II. aroused
distrust and alarm.

In truth, the inordinate vanity, restless energy, and flamboyant Chauvinism of the Kaiser placed
great difficulties in the way of an Anglo-German Entente. An article believed to have been
inspired by Bismarck contained the following reference to the Kaiser's megalomania: "It causes
the deepest anxiety in Germany, because it is feared that it may lead to some irreparable piece
of want of tact, and thence to war. For it is argued that, vanity being at the bottom of it
all, and the Emperor finding he is unable to gain the premature immortality he thirsts for
by peaceful prodigies, his restless nervous irritability may degenerate into recklessness,
and then his megalomania may blind him to the dangers he and, above all, poor blood-soaken
Germany may encounter on the war-path[501]." Kaiser William possesses more power of self-restraint
than this passage indicates; for, though he has spread a warlike enthusiasm through his people,
he has also restrained it until there arrived a fit opportunity for its exercise. It arrived
when Germany and her Allies were far better prepared, both by land and sea, than the Powers
whom she expected to meet in arms.

[Footnote 501: Contemporary Review, April 1892.]

His attitude towards Great Britain has varied surprisingly. During several years he figured
as her friend. But it is difficult to believe that a man of his keen intellect did not discern
ahead the collision which his policy must involve. His many claims to acquire maritime supremacy
and a World-Empire were either mere bluff or a portentous challenge. Only the good-natured,
easy-going British race could so long have clung to the former explanation, thereby leaving
the most diffuse, vulnerable, and ill-armed Empire that has ever existed face to face with
an Empire that is compact, well-fortified, and armed to the teeth. In this contrast lies one
of the main causes of the present war.

Moreover, the internal difficulties of France and the preoccupation of Russia in the Far East
gave to Kaiser William a disquietingly easy victory in the affairs of the Near East. His visit
to Constantinople and Palestine in 1898 inaugurated a Levantine policy destined to have momentous
results. On the Bosphorus he scrupled not to clasp the hand of Sultan Abdul Hamid II., still
reeking with the blood of the Christians of Armenia and Macedonia. At Jerusalem he figured
as the Christian knight-errant, but at Damascus as the champion of the Moslem creed. After
laying a wreath on the tomb of Saladin, he made a speech which revealed his plan of utilising
the fighting power of Islam. He said: "The three hundred million Mohammedans who live scattered
over the globe may be assured of this, that the German Emperor will be their friend at all
times." Taken in conjunction with his pro-Turkish policy, this implied that the Triple Alliance
was to be buttressed by the most terrible fighting force in the East[502].

[Footnote 502: See Hurgronje, The Holy War; made in Germany, pp. 27-39, 68-78; also G.E. Holt,
Morocco the Piquant (1914), who says (chap, xiv.): "Islam is waiting for war in Europe. . .
. A war between any two European Powers, in my opinion, would mean the uprising of Islam."]

During the tour he did profitable business with the Sublime Porte by gaining a promise for
the construction of a railway to Bagdad and the Persian Gulf, under German auspices. The scheme
took practical form in 1902-3, when the Sultan granted a firman for the construction of that
line together with very extensive proprietary rights along its course. Russian opposition had
been bought off in 1900 by the adoption of a more southerly course than was originally designed;
and the Kaiser now sought to get the financial support of England to the enterprise. British
public opinion, however, was invincibly sceptical, and with justice, for the scheme would have
ruined our valuable trade on the River Tigris and the Persian Gulf; while the proposed prolongation
of the line to Koweit on the gulf would enable Germany, Austria, and Turkey to threaten India.

By the year 1903 Austria was so far mistress of the Balkans as to render it possible for her
and Germany in the near future to send troops through Constantinople and Asia Minor by the
railways which they controlled. Accordingly, affairs in the Near East became increasingly strained;
and, when Russia was involved in the Japanese War, no Great Power could effectively oppose
Austro-German policy in that quarter. The influence of France and Britain, formerly paramount
both politically and commercially in the Turkish Empire, declined, while that of Germany became
supreme. Every consideration of prudence therefore prompted the Governments of London and Paris
to come to a close understanding, in order to make headway against the aggressive designs of
the two Kaisers in the Balkans and Asia Minor. Looking forward, we may note that the military
collapse of Russia in 1904-5 enabled the Central Powers to push on in the Levant. Germany fastened
her grip on the Turkish Government, exploited the resources of Asia Minor, and posed as the
champion of the Moslem creed. Early in the twentieth century that creed became aggressive,
mainly under the impulse of Sultan Abdul Hamid II., who varied his propagandism by massacre
with appeals to the faithful to look to him as their one hope in this world. Constantinople
and Cairo were the centres of this Pan-Islamic movement, which, aiming at the closer union
of all Moslems in Asia, Europe, and Africa around the Sultan, threatened to embarrass Great
Britain, France, and Russia. The Kaiser, seeing in this revival of Islam an effective force,
took steps to encourage the "true believers" and strengthen the Sultan by the construction
of a branch line of the Bagdad system running southwards through Aleppo and the district east
of the Dead Sea towards Mecca. Purporting to be a means for lessening the hardships of pilgrims,
it really enabled the Sultan to threaten the Suez Canal and Egypt.

The aggressive character of these schemes explains why France, Great Britain, and Russia began
to draw together for mutual support. The three Powers felt the threat implied in an organisation
of the Moslem world under the aegis of the Kaiser. He, a diligent student of Napoleon's career,
was evidently seeking to dominate the Near East, and to enrol on his side the force of Moslem
enthusiasm which the Corsican had forfeited by his attack on Egypt in 1798. The construction
of German railways in the Levant and the domination of the Balkan Peninsula by Austria would
place in the hands of the Germanic Powers the keys of the Orient, which have always been the
keys to World-Empire.

Closely connected with these far-reaching schemes was the swift growth of the Pan-German movement.
It sought to group the Germanic and cognate peoples in some form of political union--a programme
which threatened to absorb Holland, Belgium, the greater part of Switzerland, the Baltic Provinces
of Russia, the Western portions of the Hapsburg dominions, and, possibly, the Scandinavian
peoples. The resulting State or Federation of States would thus extend from Ostend to Reval,
from Amsterdam (or Bergen) to Trieste.

Even those Germans who did not espouse these ambitious schemes became deeply imbued with the
expansively patriotic ideas championed by the Kaiser. So far back as 1890 he ordered their
enforcement in the universities and schools[503]. Thenceforth professors and teachers vied
in their eagerness to extol the greatness of Germany and the civilising mission of the Hohenzollerns,
whose exploits in the future were to eclipse all the achievements of Frederick the Great and
William I. Moreover, the new German Navy was acclaimed as a necessary means to the triumph
of German Kultur throughout the world. Other nations were depicted as slothful, selfish, decadent;
and the decline in the prestige of Great Britain, France, and Russia to some extent justified
these pretensions. The Tsar, by turning away from the Balkans towards Korea, deadened Slav
aspirations. For the time Pan-Slavism seemed moribund. Pan-Germanism became a far more threatening
force.

[Footnote 503: Latterly, the catchword, England ist der Feind ("England is the enemy"), has
been taught in very many schools.]

Summing up, and including one topic that will soon be dealt with, we may conclude as follows:
Germany showed that she did not want England's friendship, save in so far as it would help
her to oppose the Monroe Doctrine or supply her with money to finish the Bagdad Railway. For
reasons that have been explained, she and Austria were likely to undermine British interests
in the Near East; while, on the other hand, the diversion of Russia's activities from Central
Asia and the Balkans to the Far East, lessened the Muscovite menace which had so long determined
the trend of British policy. Moreover, Russia's ally, France, showed a conciliatory spirit.
Forgetting the rebuff at Fashoda (see ante, pp. 501-6), she aimed at expansion in Morocco.
Now, Korea and Morocco did not vitally concern us. The Bagdad Railway and the Kaiser's court
to Pan-Islamism were definite threats to our existence as an Empire. Finally, the development
of the German Navy and the growth of a furiously anti-British propaganda threatened the long
and vulnerable East Coast of Great Britain.

A temporary understanding with Germany could have been attained if we had acquiesced in her
claim for maritime equality and in the oriental and colonial enterprises which formed its sequel.
But that course, by yielding to her undisputed ascendancy in all parts of the world, would
have led to a policy of partition. Now, since 1688, British statesmen have consistently opposed,
often by force of arms, a policy of partition at the expense of civilised nations. Their aim
has been to support the weaker European States against the stronger and more aggressive, thus
assuring a Balance of Power which in general has proved to be the chief safeguard of peace.
In seeking an Entente with France, and subsequently with Russia, British policy has followed
the course consistent with the counsels of moderation and the teachings of experience. We may
note here that the German historian, Count Reventlow, has pointed out that the Berlin Government
could not frame any lasting agreement with the British; for, sooner or later, they would certainly
demand the limitation of Germany's colonial aims and of her naval development, to neither of
which could she consent. The explanation is highly significant[504].

[Footnote 504: Reventlow, Deutschlands auswärtige Politik, pp. 178-9; Mr. Chamberlain's Speeches,
vol. ii. p. 68.]

Nevertheless, at first Great Britain sought to come to a friendly understanding with Germany
in the Far East, probably with a view to preventing the schemes of partition of China which
in 1900 assumed a menacing guise. At that time Russia seemed likely to take the lead in those
designs. But opposite to the Russian stronghold of Port Arthur was the German province of Kiao
Chau, in which the Kaiser took a deep interest. His resolve to play a leading part in Chinese
affairs appeared in his speech to the German troops sent out in 1900 to assist in quelling
the Boxer Rising. He ordered them to adopt methods of terrorism like those of Attila's Huns,
so that "no Chinaman will ever again dare to look askance at a German." The orders were ruthlessly
obeyed. After the capture of Pekin by the Allies (September 1900) there ensued a time of wary
balancing. Russia and Germany were both suspected of designs to cut up China; but they were
opposed by Great Britain and Japan. This obscure situation was somewhat cleared by the statesmen
of London and Berlin agreeing to maintain the territorial integrity of China and freedom of
trade (October 1900). But in March 1901 the German Chancellor, Prince von Bülow, nullified
the agreement by officially announcing that it did not apply to, or limit, the expansion of
Russia in Manchuria. What caused this volte face is not known; but it implied a renunciation
of the British policy of the status quo in the Far East and an official encouragement to Russia
to push forward to the Pacific Ocean, where she was certain to come into conflict with Japan.
Such a collision would enfeeble those two Powers; while Germany, as tertius gaudens would be
free to work her will both in Europe and Asia[505].

[Footnote 505: In September 1895 the Tsar thanked Prince Hohenlohe for supporting his Far East
policy, and said he was weary of Armenia and distrustful of England; so, too, in September
1896, when Russo-German relations were also excellent (Hohenlohe Mems., Eng. edit., ii. 463, 470).]

On the other hand, Eckardstein, the German ambassador in London, is said to have made proposals
of an Anglo-German-Japanese Alliance in March-April 1901. If we may trust the work entitled
Secret Memoirs of Count Hayashi (Japanese ambassador in London) these proposals were dangled
for some weeks, why, he could never understand. Probably Germany was playing a double game;
for Hayashi believed that she had a secret understanding with Russia on these questions. He
found that the Salisbury Cabinet welcomed her adhesion to the principles of maintaining the
territorial integrity of China and of freedom of commerce in the Far East[506].

[Footnote 506: Secret Memoirs of Count Hayashi (London, 1915), pp. 97-131. There are suspicious
features about this book. I refer to it with all reserve. Reventlow (Deutschlands auswärtige
Politik, p. 178) thinks Eckardstein may have been playing his own game--an improbable suggestion.]

In October 1901 Germany proposed to the United Kingdom that each Power should guarantee the
possessions of the other in every Continent except Asia. Why Asia was excepted is not clear,
unless Germany wished to give Russia a free hand in that Continent. The Berlin Government laid
stress on the need of our support in North and South America, where its aim of undermining
the Monroe Doctrine was notorious. The proposed guarantee would also have compelled us to assist
Germany in any dispute that might arise between her and France about Alsace-Lorraine or colonial
questions. The aim was obvious, to gain the support of the British fleet either against the
United States or France. A British diplomatist of high repute, who visited Berlin, has declared
that the German Foreign Office made use of garbled and misleading documents to win him over
to these views[507]. It was in vain. The British Government was not to be hoodwinked; and,
as soon as it declined these compromising proposals, a storm of abuse swept through the German
Press at the barbarities of British troops in South Africa. That incident ended all chance
of an understanding, either between the two Governments or the two peoples.

[Footnote 507: Quarterly Review, Oct. 1914, pp. 426-9.]

The inclusion of Germany in the Anglo-Japanese compact proving to be impossible, the two Island
Powers signed a treaty of alliance at London on January 30, 1902. It guaranteed the maintenance
of the status quo in the Far East, and offered armed assistance by either signatory in the
event of its ally being attacked by more than one Power[508]. The alliance ended the isolation
of the British race, and marked the entry of Japan into the circle of the World-Powers. The
chief objections to the new departure were its novelty, and the likelihood of its embroiling
us finally with Russia and France or Russia and Germany. These fears were groundless; for France
and even Russia(!) expressed their satisfaction at the treaty. Lord Lansdowne's diplomatic
coup not only ended the isolation of two Island States, which had been severally threatened
by powerful rivals; it also safeguarded China; and finally, by raising the prestige of Great
Britain, it helped to hasten the end of the Boer War. During the discussion of their future
policy by the Boer delegates at Vereeniging on May 30, General Botha admitted that he no longer
had any hope of intervention from the Continent of Europe; for their deputation thither had
failed. All the leaders except De Wet agreed, and they came to terms with Lords Kitchener and
Milner at Pretoria on May 31. That the Anglo-Japanese compact ended the last hopes of the Boers
for intervention can scarcely be doubted.

[Footnote 508: E.g., if the Russians alone attacked Japan we were not bound to help her: but
if the French also attacked Japan we must help her. The aim clearly was to prevent Japan being
overborne as in 1895 (see p. 577). The treaty was signed for five years, but was renewed on
August 12, 1905, and in July 1911.]

Still more significant was the new alliance as a warning to Russia not to push too far her
enterprises in the Far East. On April 12, 1902, she agreed with China to evacuate Manchuria;
but (as has appeared in Chapter XX.) she finally pressed on, not only in Manchuria, but also
in Korea, in which the Anglo-Japanese treaty recognised that Japan had predominant interests.
For this forward policy Russia had the general support of the Kaiser, whose aims in the Near
East were obviously served by the transference thence of Russia's activities to the Far East.
It is, indeed, probable that he and his agents desired to embroil Russia and Japan. Certain
it is that the Russian people regarded the Russo-Japanese War, which began in February 1904,
as "The War of the Grand Dukes." The Russian troops fought an uphill fight loyally and doggedly,
but with none of the enthusiasm so conspicuous in the present truly national struggle. In Manchuria
the mistakes and incapacity of their leaders led to an almost unbroken series of defeats, ending
with the protracted and gigantic contests around Mukden (March 1-10, 1905). The almost complete
destruction of the Russian Baltic fleet by Admiral Togo at the Battle of Tsushima (May 27-28)
ended the last hopes of the Tsar and his ministers; and, fearful of the rising discontent in
Russia, they accepted the friendly offers of the United States for mediation. By the Treaty
of Portsmouth (Sept. 5, 1905) they ceded to Japan the southern half of Saghalien and the Peninsula
on which stands Port Arthur: they also agreed to evacuate South Manchuria and to recognise
Korea as within Japan's sphere of influence. No war indemnity was paid. Indeed it could not
be exacted, as Japan occupied no Russian territory which she did not intend to annex. To Russia
the material results of the war were the loss of some 350,000 men, killed, wounded, and prisoners;
of two fleets; and of the valuable provinces and ice-free harbours for the acquisition of which
she had constructed the Trans-Siberian Railway. So heavy a blow had not been dealt to a Great
Power since the fall of Napoleon III.; and worse, perhaps, than the material loss was that
of prestige in accepting defeat at the hands of an Island State, whose people fifty years before
fought with bows and arrows.

Japan emerged from the war triumphant, but financially exhausted. Accordingly, she was not
loath to conclude with Russia, on July 30, 1907, a convention which adjusted outstanding questions
in a friendly manner[509]. The truth about this Russo-Japanese rapprochement is, of course,
not known; but it may reasonably be ascribed in part to the good services of England (then
about to frame an entente with Russia); and in part to the suspicion of the statesmen of Petrograd
and Tokio that German influences had secretly incited Russia to the policy of reckless exploitation
in Korea which led to war and disaster.

[Footnote 509: Hayashi, op. cit. ch. viii. and App. D. On June 10, 1907, Japan concluded with
France an agreement, for which see Hayashi, ch. vi. and App. C.]

The chief results of the Russo-Japanese War were to paralyse Russia, thereby emasculating the
Dual Alliance and leaving France as much exposed to German threats as she was before its conclusion;
also to exalt the Triple Alliance and enable its members (Germany, Austria, and Italy) successively
to adopt the forward policy which marked the years 1905, 1908, 1911, and 1914. The Russo-Japanese
War therefore inaugurated a new era in European History. Up to that time the Triple Alliance
had been a defensive league, except when the exuberant impulses of Kaiser William forced it
into provocative courses; and then the provocations generally stopped at telegrams and orations.
But in and after 1905 the Triple Alliance forsook the watchwords of Bismarck, Andrassy and
Crispi. Expansion at the cost of rivals became the dominant aim.

We must now return to affairs in France which predisposed her to come to friendly terms, first
with Italy, then with Great Britain. Her internal history in the years 1895-1906 turns largely
on the Dreyfus affair. In 1895, he, a Jewish officer in the French army, was accused and convicted
of selling military secrets to Germany. But suspicions were aroused that he was the victim
of anti-Semites or the scapegoat of the real offenders; and finally, thanks to the championship
of Zola, his condemnation was proved to have been due to a forgery (July 1906). Meanwhile society
had been rent in twain, and confidence in the army and in the administration of justice was
seriously impaired. A furious anti-militarist agitation began, which had important consequences.
Already in May 1900, the Premier, Waldeck-Rousseau, appointed as Minister of War General André,
who sympathised with these views and dangerously relaxed discipline. The Combes Ministry, which
succeeded in June 1902, embittered the strife between the clerical and anti-clerical sections
by measures such as the separation of Church and State and the expulsion of the Religious Orders.
In consequence France was almost helpless in the first years of the century, a fact which explains
her readiness to clasp the hand of England in 1904 and, in 1905, after the military collapse
of Russia in the Far East, to give way before the threats of Germany[510].

[Footnote 510: Even in 1908 reckless strikes occurred, and there were no fewer than 11,223
cases of insubordination in the army. Professor Gustave Hervé left the University in order
to direct a paper, La Guerre sociale, which advocated a war of classes.]

The weakness of France predisposed Italy to forget the wrong done by French statesmen in seizing
Tunis twenty years before. That wrong (as we saw on pp. 328, 329) drove Italy into the arms
of Germany and Austria. But now Crispi and other pro-German authors of the Triple Alliance
had passed away; and that compact, founded on passing passion against France rather than community
of interest or sentiment with the Central Empires, had sensibly weakened. Time after time Italian
Ministers complained of disregard of their interests by the men of Berlin and Vienna[511],
whereas in 1898 France accorded to Italy a favourable commercial treaty. Victor Emmanuel III.
paid his first state visit to Petrograd, not to Berlin. In December 1900 France and Italy came
to an understanding respecting Tripoli and Morocco; and in May 1902 the able French Minister,
Delcassé, then intent on his Morocco enterprise, prepared the way for it by a convention with
Italy, which provided that France and Italy should thenceforth peaceably adjust their differences,
mainly arising out of Mediterranean questions. Seeing that Italy and Austria were at variance
respecting Albania, the Franco-Italian Entente weakened the Triple Alliance; and the old hatred
of Austria appeared in the shouts of "Viva Trento," "Viva Trieste," often raised in front of
the Austrian embassy at Rome. Despite the renewal of the Triple Alliance in 1907 and 1912,
the adhesion of Italy was open to question, unless the Allies became the object of indisputable
aggression.

[Footnote 511: Crispi, Memoirs (Eng. edit.) vol. ii. pp. 166, 169, 472; vol. iii. pp. 330, 347.]

Still more important was the Anglo-French Entente of 1904. That the Anglophobe outbursts of
the Parisian Press and populace in 1902 should so speedily give way to a friendly understanding
was the work, partly of the friends of peace in both lands, partly of the personal tact and
charm of Edward VII. as manifested during his visit to Paris in May 1903, but mainly of the
French and British Governments. In October 1903 they agreed by treaty to refer to arbitration
before the Hague Tribunal disputes that might arise between them. This agreement (one of the
greatest triumphs of the principle of arbitration[512]) naturally led to more cordial relations.
During the visit of President Loubet and M. Delcassé to London in July 1903, the latter discussed
with Lord Lansdowne the questions that hindered a settlement, namely, our occupation of Egypt
(a rankling sore in France ever since 1882); French claims to dominate Morocco both commercially
and politically, "the French shore" of Newfoundland, the New Hebrides, the French convict-station
in New Caledonia, as also the territorial integrity of Siam, championed by England, threatened
by France. A more complex set of problems never confronted statesmen. Yet a solution was found
simply because both of them were anxious for a solution. Their anxiety is intelligible in view
of the German activities just noticed, and of the outbreak of the Russo-Japanese War in February
1904. True, France was allied to Russia only for European affairs; and our alliance with Japan
referred mainly to the Far East. Still, there was danger of a collision, which both Paris and
London wished to avert. It was averted by the skill and tact of Lord Lansdowne and M. Delcassé,
whose conversations of July 1903 pointed the way to the definitive compact of April 8, 1904.

[Footnote 512: Sir Thomas Barclay, Anglo-French Reminiscences (1876-1906), ch. xviii-xxii;
M. Hanotaux (La Politique de l'Équilibre, p. 415) claims that Mr. Chamberlain was chiefly instrumental
in starting the negotiations leading to the Entente with France.]

Stated briefly, France gave way on most of the questions named above, except one, that is,
Morocco. There she attained her end, the recognition by us of her paramount claims. For this
she conceded most of the points in dispute between the two countries in Egypt, though she maintains
her Law School, hospitals, mission schools, and a few other institutions. Thenceforth England
had opposed to her in that land only German influence and the Egyptian nationalists and Pan-Islam
fanatics whom it sought to encourage. France also renounced some of her fishing rights in Newfoundland
in return for gains of territory on the River Gambia and near Lake Chad. In return for these
concessions she secured from us the recognition of her claim to watch over the tranquillity
of Morocco, together with an offer of assistance for all "the administrative, economic, financial,
and military reforms which it needs." True, she promised not to change the political condition
of Morocco, as also to maintain equality of commercial privileges. Great Britain gave a similar
undertaking for Egypt[513].

[Footnote 513: A. Tardieu, Questions diplomatiques de l'année 1904, Appendix II. England in
1914 annulled the promise respecting Egypt because of the declaration of war by Turkey and
the assistance afforded her by the Khedive, Abbas II. (see Earl of Cromer, Modern Egypt and
Abbas II.), On February 15, 1904, France settled by treaty with Siam frontier disputes of long
standing.]

The Anglo-French Entente of 1904 is the most important event of modern diplomacy. Together
with the preceding treaty of arbitration, it removed all likelihood of war between two nations
which used to be "natural enemies"; and the fact that it in no respect menaced Germany appeared
in the communication of its terms to the German ambassador in Paris shortly before its signature.
On April 12 Bülow declared to the Reichstag his approval of the compact as likely to end disputes
in several quarters, besides assuring peace and order in Morocco, where Germany's interests
were purely commercial. Two days later, in reply to the Pan-German leader, Count Reventlow,
he said he would not embark Germany on any enterprise in Morocco. These statements were reasonable
and just. The Entente lessened the friction between Great Britain and Russia during untoward
incidents of the Russo-Japanese War. After the conclusion of the Entente the Russian ambassador
in Paris publicly stated the approval of his Government, and, quoting the proverb, "The friends
of our friends are our friends," added with a truly prophetic touch--"Who knows whether that
will not be true?" The agreement also served to strengthen the position of France at a time
when her internal crisis and the first Russian defeats in the Far East threatened to place
her almost at the mercy of Germany. A dangerous situation would have arisen if France had not
recently gained the friendship both of England and Italy.

Finally, the Anglo-French Entente induced Italy to reconsider her position. Her dependence
on us for coal and iron, together with the vulnerability of her numerous coast-towns, rendered
a breach with the two Powers of the Entente highly undesirable, while on sentimental grounds
she could scarcely take up the gauntlet for her former oppressor, Austria, against two nations
which had assisted in her liberation. As we shall see, she declared at the Conference of Algeciras
her complete solidarity with Great Britain.

Even so, Germany held a commanding position owing to the completion of the first part of her
naval programme, which placed her far ahead of France at sea. For reasons that have been set
forth, the military and naval weakness of France was so marked as greatly to encourage German
Chauvinists; but the Entente made them pause, especially when France agreed to concentrate
her chief naval strength in the Mediterranean, while that of Great Britain was concentrated
in the English Channel and the North Sea. It is certain that the Entente with France never
amounted to an alliance; that was made perfectly clear; but it was unlikely that the British
Government would tolerate an unprovoked attack upon the Republic, or look idly on while the
Pan-Germans refashioned Europe and the other Continents. Besides, Great Britain was strong
at sea. In 1905 she possessed thirty-five battleships mounting 12-in. guns; while the eighteen
German battleships carried only 11-in. and 9.4-in. guns. Further, in 1905-7 we began and finished
the first Dreadnought; and the adoption of that type for the battle-fleet of the near future
lessened the value of the Kiel-North Sea Canal, which was too small to receive Dreadnoughts.
In these considerations may perhaps be found the reason for the caution of Germany at a time
which was otherwise very favourable for aggressive action.

Meanwhile Kaiser William, pressed on by the colonials, had intervened in a highly sensational
manner in the Morocco Affair, thus emphasising his earlier assertion that nothing important
must take place in any part of the world without the participation of Germany. Her commerce
in Morocco was unimportant compared with that of France and Great Britain; but the position
of that land, commanding the routes to the Mediterranean and the South Atlantic, was such as
to interest all naval Powers, while the State that gained a foothold in Morocco would have
a share in the Moslem questions then arising to prime importance. As we have seen, the Kaiser
had in 1898 declared his resolve to befriend all Moslem peoples; and his Chancellor, Bülow,
has asserted that Germany's pro-Islam policy compelled her to intervene in the Moroccan Question.
The German ambassador at Constantinople, Baron von Marschall, said that, if after that promise
Germany sacrificed Morocco, she would at once lose her position in Turkey, and therefore all
the advantages and prospects that she had painfully acquired by the labour of many years[514].

[Footnote 514: Bülow, Imperial Germany, p. 83.]

On the other hand, the feuds of the Moorish tribes vitally concerned France because they led
to many raids into her Algerian lands which she could not merely repel. In 1901 she adopted
a more active policy, that of "pacific penetration," and, by successive compacts with Italy,
Great Britain, and Spain, secured a kind of guardianship over Moroccan affairs. This policy,
however, aroused deep resentment at Berlin. Though Germany was pacifically penetrating Turkey
and Asia Minor, she grudged France her success in Morocco, not for commercial reasons but for
others, closely connected with high diplomacy and world-policy. As the German historian, Rachfahl,
declared, Morocco was to be a test of strength[515].

[Footnote 515: Tardieu, Questions diplomatiques de 1904, pp. 56-102; Rachfahl, Kaiser und Reich,
pp. 230-241; E.D. Morel, Morocco in Diplomacy, chaps, i-xii.]

In one respect Germany had cause for complaint. On October 6, 1904, France signed a Convention
with Spain in terms that were suspiciously vague. They were interpreted by secret articles
which defined the spheres of French and Spanish influence in case the rule of the Sultan of
Morocco ceased. It does not appear that Germany was aware of these secret articles at the time
of her intervention[516]. But their existence, even perhaps their general tenor, was surmised.
The effective causes of her intervention were, firstly, her resolve to be consulted in every
matter of importance, and, secondly, the disaster that befel the Russians at Mukden early in
March 1905. At the end of the month, the Kaiser landed at Tangier and announced in strident
terms that he came to visit the Sultan as an independent sovereign. This challenge to French
claims produced an acute crisis. Delcassé desired to persevere with pacific penetration; but
in the debate of April 19 the deficiencies of the French military system were admitted with
startling frankness; and a threat from Berlin revealed the intention of humiliating France,
and, if possible, of severing the Anglo-French Entente. Here, indeed, is the inner significance
of the crisis. Germany had lately declared her indifference to all but commercial questions
in Morocco. But she now made use of the collapse of Russia to seek to end the Anglo-French
connection which she had recently declared to be harmless. The aim obviously was to sow discord
between those two Powers. In this she failed. Lord Lansdowne and Delcassé lent each other firm
support, so much so that the Paris Temps accused us of pushing France on in a dangerous affair
which did not vitally concern her. The charge was not only unjust but ungenerous; for Germany
had worked so as to induce England to throw over France or make France throw over England.
The two Governments discerned the snare, and evaded it by holding firmly together[517].

[Footnote 516: Rachfahl, pp. 235, 238. For details, see Morel, chap. ii.]

[Footnote 517: In an interview with M. Tardieu at Baden-Baden on October 4, 1905, Bülow said
that Germany intervened in Morocco because of her interests there, and also to protest against
this new attempt to isolate her (Tardieu, Questions actuelles de Politique étrangère, p. 87).
If so, her conduct increased that isolation. Probably the second Anglo-Japanese Treaty of August
12, 1905 (published on September 27), was due to fear of German aggression. France and Germany
came to a preliminary agreement as to Morocco on September 28.]

The chief difficulty of the situation was that it committed France to two gigantic tasks, that
of pacifying Morocco and also of standing up to the Kaiser in Europe. In this respect the ground
for the conflict was all in his favour; and both he and she knew it. Consequently, a compromise
was desirable; and the Kaiser himself, in insisting on the holding of a Conference, built a
golden bridge over which France might draw back, certainly with honour, probably with success;
for in the diplomatic sphere she was at least as strong as he. When, therefore, Delcassé objected
to the Conference, his colleagues accepted his resignation (June 6). His fall was hailed at
Berlin as a humiliation for France. Nevertheless, her complaisance earned general sympathy,
while the bullying tone of German diplomacy, continued during the Conference held at Algeciras,
hardened the opposition of nearly all the Powers, including the United States. Especially noteworthy
was the declaration of Italy that her interests were identical with those of England. German
proposals were supported by Austria alone, who therefore gained from the Kaiser the doubtful
compliment of having played the part of "a brilliant second" to Germany.

It is needless to describe at length the Act of Algeciras (April 7, 1906). It established a
police and a State Bank in Morocco, suppressed smuggling and the illicit trade in arms, reformed
the taxes, and set on foot public works. Of course, little resulted from all this; but the
position of France was tacitly regularised, and she was left free to proceed with pacific penetration.
"We are neither victors nor vanquished," said Bülow in reviewing the Act; and M. Rouvier echoed
the statement for France. In reality, Germany had suffered a check. Her chief aim was to sever
the Anglo-French Entente, and she failed. She sought to rally Italy to her side, and she failed;
for Italy now proclaimed her accord with France on Mediterranean questions. Finally the North
German Gazette paid a tribute to the loyal and peaceable aims of French policy; while other
less official German papers deplored the mistakes of their Government, which had emphasised
the isolation of Germany[518]. This is indeed the outstanding result of the Conference. The
threatening tone of Berlin had disgusted everybody. Above all it brought to more cordial relations
the former rivals, Great Britain and Russia.

[Footnote 518: Tardieu, La Conference d'Algeciras, pp. 410-20.]

As has already appeared, the friction between Great Britain and Russia quickly disappeared
after the Japanese War. During the Congress of Algeciras the former rivals worked cordially
together to check the expansive policy of Germany, in which now lay the chief cause of political
unrest. In fact, the Kaiser's Turcophile policy acquired a new significance owing to the spread
of a Pan-Islamic propaganda which sent thrills of fanaticism through North-West Africa, Egypt,
and Central Asia. At St. Helena Napoleon often declared Islam to be vastly superior to Christianity
as a fighting creed; and his imitator now seemed about to marshal it against France, Russia,
and Great Britain. Naturally, the three Powers drew together for mutual support. Further, Germany
by herself was very powerful, the portentous growth of her manufactures and commerce endowing
her with wealth which she spent lavishly on her army and navy. In May 1906 the Reichstag agreed
to a new Navy Bill for further construction which was estimated to raise the total annual expenditure
on the navy from £11,671,000 in 1905 to £16,492,000 in 1917; this too though Bebel had warned
the House that the agitation of the German Navy League had for its object a war with England.

In 1906 and 1907 Edward VII. paid visits to William II., who returned the compliment in November
1907. But this interchange of courtesies could not end the distrust caused by Germany's increase
of armaments. The peace-loving Administration of Campbell-Bannerman, installed in power by
the General Election of 1906, sought to come to an understanding with Berlin, especially at
the second Hague Conference of 1907, with respect to a limitation of armaments. But Germany
rejected all such proposals[519]. The hopelessness of framing a friendly arrangement with her
threw us into the arms of Russia; and on August 31, 1907, Anglo-Russian Conventions were signed
defining in a friendly way the interests of the two Powers in Persia, Afghanistan, and Thibet.
True, the interests of Persian reformers were sacrificed by this bargain; but it must be viewed,
firstly, in the light of the Bagdad Railway scheme, which threatened soon to bring Germany
to the gates of Persia and endanger the position of both Powers in that land[520]; secondly,
in that of the general situation, in which Germany and Austria were rapidly forcing their way
to a complete military ascendancy and refused to consider any limitation of armaments. The
detailed reasons which prompted the Anglo-Russian Entente are of course unknown. But the fact
that the most democratic of all British Administrations should come to terms with the Russian
autocracy is the most convincing proof of the very real danger which both States discerned
in the aggressive conduct of the Central Powers. The Triple Alliance, designed by Bismarck
solely to safeguard peace, became, in the hands of William II., a menace to his neighbours,
and led them to form tentative and conditional arrangements for defence in case of attack.
This is all that was meant by the Triple Entente. It formed a loose pendant to the Dual Alliance
between France and Russia, which was binding and solid. With those Powers the United Kingdom
formed separate agreements; but they were not alliances; they were friendly understandings
on certain specific objects, and in no respect threatened the Triple Alliance so long as it
remained non-aggressive[521].

[Footnote 519: See the cynical section in Reventlow, op. cit. (pp. 280-8), entitled "Utopien
und Intrigen im Haag." For Austria's efforts to prevent the Anglo-Russian Entente, see H.W.
Steed, The Hamburg Monarchy, p. 230.]

[Footnote 520: Rachfahl (p. 307) admits this, but accuses England of covert opposition everywhere,
even at the Hague Conference.]

[Footnote 521: On December 24, 1908, the Russian Foreign Minister, Izvolsky, assured the Duma
that "no open or secret agreements directed against German interests existed between Russia
and England."]

One question remains. When was it that the friction between Great Britain and Germany first
became acute? Some have dated it from the Morocco Affair of 1905-6. The assertion is inconsistent
with the facts of the case. Long before that crisis the policy of the Kaiser tended increasingly
towards a collision. His patronage of the Boers early in 1896 was a threatening sign; still
more so was his World-Policy, proclaimed repeatedly in the following years, when the appointments
of Tirpitz and Bülow showed that the threats of capturing the trident, and so forth, were not
mere bravado. The outbreak of the Boer War in 1899, followed quickly by the Kaiser's speech
at Hamburg, and the adoption of accelerated naval construction in 1900, brought about serious
tension, which was not relaxed by British complaisance respecting Samoa. The coquetting with
the Sultan, the definite initiation of the Bagdad scheme (1902-3), and the completion of the
first part of Germany's new naval programme in 1904 account for the Anglo-French Entente of
that year. The chief significance of the Morocco Affair of 1905-6 lay in the Kaiser's design
of severing that Entente. His failure, which was still further emphasised during the Algeciras
Conference, proved that a policy which relies on menace and ever-increasing armaments arouses
increasing distrust and leads the menaced States to form defensive arrangements. That is also
the outstanding lesson of the career of Napoleon I. Nevertheless, the Kaiser, like the Corsican,
persisted in forceful procedure, until Army Bills, Navy Bills, and the rejection of pacific
proposals at the Hague, led to their natural result, the Anglo-Russian agreement of 1907. This
event should have made him question the wisdom of relying on armed force and threatening procedure.
The Entente between the Tsar and the Campbell-Bannerman Administration formed a tacit but decisive
censure of the policy of Potsdam; for it realised the fears which had haunted Bismarck like
a nightmare[522]. Its effect on William II. was to induce him to increase his military and
naval preparations, to reject all proposals for the substitution of arbitration in place of
the reign of force, and thereby to enclose the policy of the Great Powers in a vicious circle
from which the only escape was a general reduction of armaments or war.

[Footnote 522: Bismarck, his Reflections and Recollections, vol. ii. pp. 252, 289. There are
grounds for thinking that William II. has been pushed on to a bellicose policy by the Navy,
Colonial, and Pan-German Leagues. In 1908 he seems to have sought to pause; but powerful influences
(as also at the time of the crises of July 1911 and 1914) propelled him. See an article in
the Revue de Paris of April 15, 1913, "Guillaume II et les pangermanistes." In my narrative
I speak of the Kaiser as equivalent to the German Government; for he is absolute and his Ministers
are responsible solely to him.]

CHAPTER XXII

TEUTON versus SLAV (1908-13)

     "To tell the truth, the Slav seems to us a born
     slave."--TREITSCHKE, June 1876.

On October 7, 1908, Austria-Hungary exploded a political bomb-shell by declaring her resolve
to annex Bosnia-Herzegovina. Since the Treaty of Berlin of 1878, she had provisionally occupied
and administered those provinces as mandatory of Europe (see p. 238). But now, without consulting
Europe, she appropriated her charge. On the other hand, she consented to withdraw from the
Sanjak of Novi-Bazar which she had occupied by virtue of a secret agreement with Russia of
July 1878. Even so, her annexation of a great province caused a sharp crisis for the following
reasons: (1) It violated the international law of Europe without any excuse whatever. (2) It
exasperated Servia, which hoped ultimately to possess Bosnia, a land peopled by her kindred
and necessary to her expansion seawards. (3) It no less deeply offended the Young Turks, who
were resolved to revivify the Turkish people and assert their authority over all parts of the
Ottoman dominions. (4) It came at the same time as the assumption by Prince Ferdinand of Bulgaria
of the title of Tsar of the Bulgarians. This change of title, which implied a prospect of sovereignty
over the Bulgars of Macedonia, had been arranged during a recent visit to Buda-Pest, and foreshadowed
the supremacy of Austrian influence not only in the new kingdom of Bulgaria but eventually
in the Bulgar districts of Macedonia[523].

[Footnote 523: H.W. Steed, The Hapsburg Monarchy, pp. 52, 214.]

Thus, Austria's action constituted a serious challenge to the Powers in general, especially
to Russia, Servia, and to regenerated Turkey[524]. So daring a coup had not been dealt by Austria
since 1848, when Francis Joseph ascended the throne; it is believed that he desired to have
the provinces as a jubilee gift, a set off to the loss of Lombardy and Venetia in 1859 and
1866. Certainly Austria had carried out great improvements in Bosnia; but an occupier who improves
a farm does not gain the right to possess it except by agreement with others who have joint
claims. Moreover, the Young Turks, in power since July 1908, boasted their ability to civilise
Bosnia and all parts of their Empire. Servia also longed to include it in the large Servo-Croat
kingdom of the future.

[Footnote 524: The constitutional regime which the Young Turks imposed on the reactionary Abdul
Hamid II., in July 1908, was hailed as a victory for British influence. The change in April
1909 favoured German influence. I have no space for an account of these complex events.]

The Bosnian Question sprang out of a conflict of racial claims, which two masterful men, the
Archduke Francis Ferdinand and the Austrian Foreign Minister, Aehrenthal, were resolved to
decide in favour of Austria. The Archduke disliked, and was disliked by, the Germans and Magyars
on account of his pro-Slav tendencies. In 1900 he contracted with a Slav lady, the Countess
Chotek, a morganatic marriage, which brought him into strained relations with the Emperor and
Court. A silent, resolute man, he determined to lessen German and Magyar influence in the Empire
by favouring the law for universal suffrage (1906), and by the appointment as Foreign Minister
of Aehrenthal, who harboured ambitiously expansive schemes. The Archduke also furthered a policy
known as Trialism, that of federalising the Dual Monarchy by constituting the Slav provinces
as the third of its component groups. The annexation of Bosnia would serve to advance this
programme by depressing the hitherto dominant races, the Germans and Magyars, besides rescuing
the monarchy from the position of "brilliant second" to Germany. Kaiser William was taken aback
by this bold stroke, especially as it wounded Turkey; but he soon saw the advantage of having
a vigorous rather than a passive Ally; and, in a visit which he paid to the Archduke in November
1908, their intercourse, which had hitherto been coldly courteous, ripened into friendship,
which became enthusiastic admiration when the Archduke advocated the building of Austrian Dreadnoughts.

The annexation of Bosnia was a defiance to Europe, because, at the Conference of the Powers
held at London in 1871, they all (Austria included) solemnly agreed not to depart from their
treaty engagements without a previous understanding with the co-signatories. Austria's conduct
in 1908, therefore, dealt a severe blow to the regime of international law. But it was especially
resented by the Russians, because for ages they had lavished blood and treasure in effecting
the liberation of the Balkan peoples. Besides, in 1897, the Tsar had framed an agreement with
the Court of Vienna for the purpose of exercising conjointly some measure of control over Balkan
affairs; and he then vetoed Austria's suggestion for the acquisition of Bosnia. In 1903, when
the two Empires drew up the "February" and "Mürzsteg" Programmes for more effectually dealing
with the racial disputes in Macedonia, the Hapsburg Court did not renew the suggestion about
Bosnia, yet in 1908 Austria annexed that province. Obviously, she would not have thus defied
the public law of Europe and Russian, Servian, and Turkish interests, but for the recent humiliation
of Russia in the Far East, which explains both the dramatic intervention of the Kaiser at Tangier
against Russia's ally, France, and the sudden apparition of Austria as an aggressive Power.
In his speech to the Austro-Hungarian Delegations Aehrenthal declared that he intended to continue
"an active foreign policy," which would enable Austria-Hungary to "occupy to the full her place
in the world." She had to act because otherwise "affairs might have developed against her."

Thus the Eastern Question once more became a matter of acute controversy. The Austro-Russian
agreements of 1897 and 1903 had huddled up and cloaked over those racial and religious disputes,
so that there was little chance of a general war arising out of them. But since 1908 the Eastern
Question has threatened to produce a general conflict unless Austria moderated her pretensions.
She did not do so; for, as we have seen, Germany favoured them in order to assure uninterrupted
communications between Central Europe and her Bagdad Railway. Already Hapsburg influence was
supreme at Bukharest, Sofia, and in Macedonian affairs. If it could dominate Servia (anti-Austrian
since the accession of King Peter in 1903) the whole of the Peninsula would be subject to Austro-German
control. True, the influence of Germany at Constantinople at first suffered a shock from the
Young Turk Revolution of July 1908; and those eager nationalists deeply resented the annexation
of Bosnia, which they ascribed to the Austro-German alliance. The men of Berlin, however, so
far from furthering that act, disapproved of it as endangering their control of Turkey and
exploitation of its resources. In fact, Germany's task in inducing her prospective vassals,
the Turks, to submit to spoliation at the hands of her ally, Austria, was exceedingly difficult;
and in the tension thus created, the third partner of the Triple Alliance, Italy, very nearly
parted company, from disgust at Austrian encroachments in a quarter where she cherished aspirations.
As we have seen, Victor Emmanuel III., early in his reign, favoured friendly relations with
Russia; and these ripened quickly during the "Annexation Crisis" of 1908-9, as both Powers
desired to maintain the status quo against Austria[525]. On December 24, 1908, the Russian
Foreign Minister, Izvolsky, declared that, with that aim in view, he was acting in close concert
with France, Great Britain, and Italy. He urged Bulgaria, Servia, and Montenegro to hold closely
together for the defence of their common interests: "Our aim must be to bring them together
and to combine them with Turkey in a common ideal of defence of their national and economic
development." A cordial union between the Slav States and Turkey now seems a fantastic notion;
but it was possible then, under pressure of the Austro-German menace, which the Young Turks
were actively resisting.

[Footnote 525: Tittoni, Italy's Foreign and Colonial Policy (English translation, p. 128).
Tittoni denied that the Triple Alliance empowered Italy to demand "compensation" if Austria
expanded in the Balkans. But the Triple Alliance Treaty, as renewed in 1912, included such
a clause, No. VII.]

During the early part of 1909 a general war seemed imminent; for Slavonic feeling was violently
excited in Russia and Servia. But, hostilities being impossible in winter, passions had time
to cool. It soon became evident that those States could not make head against Austria and Germany.
Moreover, the Franco-Russian alliance did not bind France to act with Russia unless the latter
were definitely attacked; and France was weakened by the widespread strikes of 1907-8 and the
vehement anti-militarist agitation already described. Further, Italy was distracted by the
earthquake at Messina, and armed intervention was not to be expected from the Campbell-Bannerman
Ministry. Bulgaria and Roumania were pro-Austrian. Turkey alone could not hope to reconquer
Bosnia, and a Turco-Serb-Russian league was beyond the range of practical politics. These material
considerations decided the issue of events. Towards the close of March, Kaiser William, the
hitherto silent backer of Austria, ended the crisis by sending to his ambassador at Petrograd
an autograph letter, the effect of which upon the Tsar was decisive. Russia gave way, and dissociated
herself from France, England, and Italy. In consideration of an indemnity of £2,200,000 from
Austria, Turkey recognised the annexation. Consequently no Conference of the Powers met even
to register the fait accompli in Bosnia. The Germanic Empires had coerced Russia and Servia,
despoiled Turkey, and imposed their will on Europe. Kaiser William characteristically asserted
that it was his apparition "in shining armour" by the side of Austria which decided the issue
of events. Equally decisive, perhaps, was Germany's formidable shipbuilding in 1908-9, namely,
four Dreadnoughts to England's two, a fact which explains this statement of Bülow: "When at
last, during the Bosnian crisis, the sky of international politics cleared, when German power
on the Continent burst its encompassing bonds, we had already got beyond the stage of preparation
in the construction of our fleet[526]."

[Footnote 526: Bülow, Imperial Germany, p. 99.]

The crisis of 1908-9 revealed in a startling manner the weakness of international law in a
case where the stronger States were determined to have their way. It therefore tended to discourage
the peace propaganda and the social movement in Great Britain and France. The increased speed
of German naval construction alarmed the British people, who demanded precautionary measures[527].
France and Russia also improved their armaments, for it was clear that Austria, as well as
Germany, intended to pursue an active foreign policy which would inflict other rebuffs on neighbours
who were unprepared. Further, the Triple Entente had proved far too weak for the occasion.
True, France and England loyally supported Russia in a matter which chiefly concerned her and
Servia, and her sudden retreat before the Kaiser's menace left them in the lurch. Consequently,
the relations between the Western Powers and Russia were decidedly cool during the years 1909-10,
especially in and after November 1910, when the Tsar met Kaiser William at Potsdam, and framed
an agreement, both as to their general relations and the railways then under construction towards
Persia. On the other hand, the rapid advance of Germany and Austria alarmed Italy, who, in
order to safeguard her interests in the Balkans (especially Albania), came to an understanding
with Russia for the support of their claims. The details are not known, neither are the agreements
of Austria with Bulgaria and Roumania, though it seems probable that they were framed with
the two kings rather than with the Governments of Sofia and Bukharest. Those sovereigns were
German princes, and the events of 1908-9 naturally attracted them towards the Central Powers.

[Footnote 527: Annoyance had been caused by the Kaiser's letter of Feb. 18, 1908, to Lord Tweedmouth,
First Lord of the Admiralty, advising (though in friendly terms) the cessation of suspicion
towards Germany's naval construction. It was held to be an attempt to put us off our guard.]

In 1909-10 France and England also lost ground in Turkey. There the Young Turks, who seized
power in July 1908, were overthrown in April 1909, when Abdul Hamid II. was deposed. He was
succeeded by his weakly complaisant brother, Mohammed V. This change, however, did not promote
the cause of reform. The Turkish Parliament became a bear-garden, and the reformers the tools
of reaction. In the four years 1908-12 there were seven Ministries and countless ministerial
crises, and the Young Turks, copying the forms and killing the spirit of English Liberalism,
soon became the most intolerant oppressors of their non-Moslem subjects. In administrative
matters they acted on the old Turkish proverb--"The Sultan's treasure is a sea, and he who
does not draw from it is a pig." Germany found means to satisfy these dominating and acquisitive
instincts, and thus regained power at the Sublime Porte. The Ottoman Empire therefore remained
the despair of patriotic reformers, a hunting-ground for Teutonic concessionnaires, a Hell
for its Christian subjects, and the chief storm-centre of Europe[528].

[Footnote 528: Lack of space precludes an account of the Cretan Question, also of the Agram
and Friedjung trials which threw lurid light on Austria's treatment of her South-Slav subjects,
for which see Seton-Watson, Corruption and Reform in Hungary. Rohrbach, Der deutsche Gedanke
in der Welt (1912), p. 172, explains the success of German efforts at the Porte by the belief
of the Young Turks that Germany was the only Power that wished them well--Germany who helped
Austria to secure Bosnia; Germany, whose Bagdad Railway scheme mercilessly exploited Turkish
resources! (See D. Fraser, The Short Cut to India, chs. iii. iv.)]

The death of King Edward VII. on May 6, 1910, was a misfortune for the cause of peace. His
tact and discernment had on several occasions allayed animosity and paved the way for friendly
understandings. True, the German Press sought to represent those efforts as directed towards
the "encircling" (Einkreisung) of Germany. But here we may note that (1) King Edward never
transgressed the constitutional usage, which prescribed that no important agreement be arrived
at apart from the responsible Ministers of the Crown[529]. (2) The agreements with Spain, Italy,
France, Germany, and Portugal (in 1903-4) were for the purposes of arbitration. (3) The alliance
with Japan and the Ententes with France and Russia were designed to end the perilous state
of isolation which existed at the time of his accession. (4) At that time Germany was allied
to Austria, Italy, and (probably) Roumania, not to speak of her secret arrangements with Turkey.
She had no right to complain of the ending of our isolation. (5) The marriage of King Alfonso
of Spain with Princess Ena of Battenberg (May 1906), was a love-match, and was not the result
of King Edward's efforts to detach Spain from Germany. It had no political significance. (6)
The Kaiser's sister was Crown Princess (now Queen) of Greece; the King of Roumania was a Hohenzollern;
and the King of Bulgaria and the Prince Consort of Holland were German Princes. (7) On several
occasions King Edward testified his friendship with Germany, notably during his visit to Berlin
in February 1909, which Germans admit to have helped on the friendly Franco-German agreement
of that month on Morocco; also in his letter of January 1910, on the occasion of the Kaiser's
birthday, when he expressed the hope that the United Kingdom and Germany might always work
together for the maintenance of peace[530].

[Footnote 529: I have been assured of this on high authority.]

[Footnote 530: Viscount Esher, the Influence of King Edward: and Other Essays, p. 56. The "encircling"
myth is worked up by Rachfahl, Kaiser und Reich, p, 228; Reventlow, op, cit. pp. 254, 279,
298, etc.; and by Rohrbach, Der deutsche Gedanke in der Welt (ch. vi.), where he says that
King Edward's chief idea from the outset was to cripple Germany. He therefore won over Japan,
France, Spain, and Russia, his aim being to secure all Africa from the Cape to Cairo, and all
Asia from the Sinaitic Peninsula to Burmah.]

The chief danger to public tranquillity arises from the vigorous expansion of some peoples
and the decay of others. Nearly all the great nations of Europe are expansive; but on their
fringe lie other peoples, notably the Turks, Persians, Koreans, and the peoples of North Africa,
who are in a state of decline or semi-anarchy. In such a state of things friction is inevitable
and war difficult to avoid, unless in the councils of the nations goodwill and generosity prevail
over the suspicion and greed which are too often the dominant motives. Scarcely was the Bosnian-Turkish
crisis over before Morocco once more became a danger to the peace of the world.

There the anarchy continued, with results that strained the relations between France and Germany.
Nevertheless, on February 8, 1909 (probably owing to the friendly offices of Great Britain[531]),
the two rivals came to an agreement that France should respect the independence of Morocco
and not oppose German trade in that quarter, while Germany declared that her sole interests
there were commercial, and that she would not oppose "the special political interests of France
in that country[532]." But, as trade depended on the maintenance of order, this vague compact
involved difficulties. Clearly, if disorders continued, the task of France would be onerous
and relatively unprofitable, for she would be working largely for the benefit of British and
German traders. Indeed, the new Chancellor, Bethmann-Hollweg, admitted to the French ambassador,
Jules Cambon, that thenceforth Morocco was a fruit destined to fall into the lap of France;
only she must humour public opinion in Germany. Unfortunately, the "Consortium," for joint
commercial enterprises of French and Germans in Morocco and the French Congo, broke down on
points of detail; and this produced a very sore feeling in Germany in the spring of 1911. Further,
as the Moorish rebels pushed their raids up to the very gates of Fez, French troops in those
same months proceeded to march to that capital (April 1911). The Kaiser saw in that move, and
a corresponding advance of Spanish troops in the North, a design to partition Morocco. Failing
to secure what he considered satisfactory assurances, he decided to send to Agadir a corvette,
the Panther (July 1, 1911), replaced by a cruiser, the Berlin.

[Footnote 531: Rachfahl, p. 310.]

[Footnote 532: Morel, App. XIV.]

Behind him were ambitious parties which sought to compass world-predominance for Germany. The
Pan-German, Colonial, and Navy Leagues had gained enormous influence since 1905, when they
induced the Kaiser to visit Tangiers; and early in 1911 they issued pamphlets urging the annexation
of part of Morocco. The chief, termed West-Marokko deutsch, was inspired by the Under-Secretary
of Foreign Affairs, Kiderlen-Wächter, who thereafter urged officially that the Government must
take into account public opinion--which he himself had manipulated.

Again, as at Tangiers in 1905, Germany's procedure was needlessly provocative if, as the agreement
of 1909 declared, her interests in Morocco were solely commercial. If this were so, why send
a war-ship, when diplomatic insistence on the terms of 1909 would have met the needs of the
case, especially as German trade with Morocco was less than half that of French firms and less
than one-third that of British firms? Obviously, Germany was bent on something more than the
maintenance of her trade (which, indeed, the French were furthering by suppressing anarchy);
otherwise she would not have risked the chance of a collision which might at any time result
from the presence of a German cruiser alongside French war-ships in a small harbour.

It is almost certain that the colonial and war parties at Berlin sought to drive on the Kaiser
to hostilities. The occasion was favourable. In the spring of 1911 France was a prey to formidable
riots of vine-growers. On June 28 occurred an embarrassing change of Ministry. Besides, the
French army and navy had not yet recovered from the Socialist régime of previous years. The
remodelling of the Russian army was also very far from complete. Moreover, the Tsar and Kaiser
had come to a friendly understanding at Potsdam in November 1910, respecting Persia and their
attitude towards other questions, so that it was doubtful whether Russia would assist France
if French action in Morocco could be made to appear irregular. As for Great Britain, her ability
to afford sufficiently large and timely succour to the French was open to question. In the
throes of a sharp constitutional crisis, and beset by acute Labour troubles, she was ill-fitted
even to defend herself. By the close of 1911 the Navy would include only fourteen first-class
ships as against Germany's nine; while Austria was also becoming a Naval Power. The weakness
of France and England had appeared in the spring when they gave way before Germany's claims
in Asia Minor. On March 18, 1911, by a convention with Turkey she acquired the right to construct
from the Bagdad Railway a branch line to Alexandretta, together with large privileges over
that port which made it practically German, and the natural outlet for Mesopotamia and North
Syria, heretofore in the sphere of Great Britain and France. True, she waived conditionally
her claim to push the Bagdad line to the Persian Gulf; but her recent bargain with the Tsar
at Potsdam gave her the lion's share of the trade of Western Persia.

After taking these strides in the Levant, Germany ought not to have shown jealousy of French
progress in Morocco, where her commerce was small. As in 1905, she was clearly using the occasion
to test the validity of the Anglo-French Entente and the effectiveness of British support to
France. Probably, too, she desired either a territorial acquisition in South Morocco, for which
the colonial party and most of the Press were clamouring; or she intended, in lieu of it, to
acquire the French Congo. At present it is not clear at which of these objects she aimed. Kiderlen-Wächter
declared privately that Germany must have the Agadir district, and would never merely accept
in exchange Congolese territory[533].

[Footnote 533: The following facts are significant. On November 9, 1911, the Chancellor, Bethmann-Hollweg,
assured the Reichstag that Germany had never intended to annex Moroccan territory, an assertion
confirmed by Kiderlen-Wächter on Nov. 17. But during the libel action brought against the Berlin
Post it was positively affirmed that the Government and Kiderlen-Wächter had intended to annex
South-West Morocco. A high official, Dr. Heilbronn, telephoned so to the Post, urging it to
demand that step.]

Whatever were the real aims of the Kaiser, they ran counter to French and British interests.
Moreover, the warning of Sir Edward Grey, on July 4, that we must be consulted as to any new
developments, was completely ignored; and even on July 21 the German ambassador in London could
give no assurance as to the policy of his Government. Consequently, on that evening Mr. Lloyd
George, during a speech at the Mansion House, apprised Germany that any attempt to treat us
as a negligible factor in the Cabinet of Nations "would be a humiliation intolerable for a
great country like ours to endure." The tension must have been far more severe than appeared
in the published documents to induce so peace-loving a Minister to speak in those terms. They
aroused a storm of passion in the German Press; and, somewhat later, a German admiral, Stiege,
declared that they would have justified an immediate declaration of war by Germany[534]. Certainly
they were more menacing than is usual in diplomatic parlance; but our cavalier treatment by
Germany (possibly due to Bethmann-Hollweg's belief in blunt Bismarckian ways) justified a protest,
which, after all, was less questionable than Germany's despatching a cruiser to Agadir, owing
to the reserve of the French Foreign Office. Up to July 27 the crisis remained acute; but on
that day the German ambassador gave assurances as to a probable agreement with France.

[Footnote 534: Rear-Admiral Stiege in Überall for March 1912.]

What caused the change of front at Berlin? Probably it was due to a sharp financial crisis
(an unexpected result of the political crisis), which would have produced a general crash in
German finance, then in an insecure position; and prudence may have counselled the adoption
of the less ambitious course, namely a friendly negotiation with the French for territorial
expansion in their Congo territory in return for the recognition of their protectorate of Morocco.
Such a compromise (which, as we shall see, was finally arrived at) involved no loss for Germany.
On the contrary, she gained fertile districts in the tropics and left the French committed
to the Morocco venture, which, at great cost to them, would tend finally to benefit commerce
in general, and therefore that of Germany.

Also, before the end of these discussions there occurred two events which might well dispose
the Kaiser to a compromise with France. Firstly, as a result of his negotiations with Russia
(then beset by severe dearth) he secured larger railway and trading concessions in Persia,
the compact of August 19 opening the door for further German enterprises in the Levant. Secondly,
on September 29, Italy declared war on Turkey, partly (it is said) because recent German activity
in Tripoli menaced the ascendancy which she was resolved to acquire in that land. This event
greatly deranged the Kaiser's schemes. He had hoped to keep the Triple Alliance intact, and
yet add to it the immense potential fighting force of Turkey and the Moslem World. Now, however
he might "hedge," he could hardly avoid offending either Rome or Constantinople; and even if
he succeeded, his friends would exhaust each other and be useless for the near future. Consequently,
the Italo-Turkish War (with its sequel, the Balkan War of 1912) dealt him a severe blow. The
Triple Alliance was at once strained nearly to breaking-point by Austria forbidding Italy to
undertake naval operations in the Adriatic (probably also in the Aegean). Equally serious was
the hostility of Moslems to Europeans in general which compromised the Kaiser's schemes for
utilising Islam. Accordingly, for the present, his policy assumed a more peaceful guise.

Here, doubtless, are the decisive reasons for the Franco-German accord of November 4, 1911,
whereby the Berlin Government recognised a French protectorate over Morocco and agreed not
to interfere in the Franco-Spanish negotiation still pending. France opened certain "closed"
ports (among them Agadir), and guaranteed equality of trading rights to all nations. She also
ceded to Germany about 100,000 square miles of fertile land in the north-west of her Congo
territory, which afforded access to the rivers Congo and Ubangi. The explosion of Teutonic
wrath produced by these far from unfavourable conditions revealed the magnitude of the designs
that prompted the coup of Agadir. The Colonial Minister at once resigned; and scornful laughter
greeted the Chancellor when he announced to the Reichstag that the Berlin would be withdrawn
from that port, the protection of German subjects being no longer necessary. He added that
Germany would neither fight for Southern Morocco nor dissipate her strength in distant expeditions.
In fact, he would "avoid any war which was not required by German honour." Far different was
the tone of the Conservative leader, Herr Heydebrand, who declared Mr. Lloyd George's "challenge"
to be one which the German people would not tolerate; England had sought to involve them in
a war with France, but they now saw "where the real enemy was to be found." The Crown Prince,
who was present, loudly applauded these Anglophobe outbursts. The German Press showed no less
bitterness. Besides criticising the Chancellor's blustering beginning and huckstering conclusion,
they manifested a resolve that Germany should always and everywhere succeed. The Berlin journal,
the Post, went so far as to call the Kaiser ce poltron misérable for giving up South Morocco;
and it was clear that a large section of the German people ardently desired war with the Western
Powers.

Many Frenchmen and Belgians credited the German colonial party with the design of acquiring
the whole of the French Congo, as a first step towards annexing the Belgian Congo[535]. Belgium
became alarmed, and in 1913 greatly extended the principle of compulsory military service.
On the other hand, the German Chauvinists certainly desired the acquisition of a naval base
in Morocco which would help to link up their naval stations and facilitate the conquest of
a World Empire. This was the policy set forth by Bernhardi in the closing parts of his work,
Germany and the next War, where he protested against the Chancellor's surrender of Morocco
as degrading to the nation and damaging to its future. Following the lead of Treitschke, he
depreciated colonies rich merely in products; for Germany needed homes for her children in
future generations, and she must fight for them with all her might at the first favourable
opportunity. This is the burden of Bernhardi's message, which bristles with rage at the loss
of Morocco. He regarded that land as more important than the Congo; for, in addition to the
strategic value of its coasts, it offered a fulcrum in the west whereby to raise the Moslems
against the Triple Entente. In the Epilogue he writes: "Our relations with Islam have changed
for the worse by the abandonment of Morocco. . . . We have lost prestige in the whole Mohammedan
world, which is a matter of the first importance for us."

[Footnote 535: Hanotaux, La Politique de l'Équilibre, p. 417.]

The logical conclusion of Bernhardi's thesis was that Germany and Austria should boldly side
with the Moors and Turks against France and Italy, summoning Islam to arms, if need be, against
Christendom. Perhaps if Turkey had possessed the 1,500,000 troops whom her War Minister, Chevket
Pacha, was hopefully striving to raise, this might have been the outcome of events. As it was,
Realpolitik counselled prudence, and the observance of the forms of Christianity.

Certainly there was no sufficient pretext for war. France and Russia had humoured Germany.
As to "the real enemy," light was thrown on her attitude during the debate of November 27,
1911, at Westminster. Sir Edward Grey then stated that we had consistently helped on, and not
impeded, the Franco-German negotiations. Never had we played the dog-in-the-manger to Germany.
In fact, the Berlin Government would greatly have eased the tension if she had declared earlier
that she did not intend to take part of Morocco. Further, the Entente with France (made public
on November 24) contained no secret articles; nor were there any in any compact made by the
British Government. On December 6, Mr. Asquith declared that we had no secret engagement with
any Power obliging us to take up arms. "We do not desire to stand in the light of any Power
which wants to find its place in the sun. The first of British interests is, as it always has
been, the peace of the world; and to its attainment British diplomacy and policy will be directed."
The German Chancellor, Bethmann-Hollweg, also said in the Reichstag, "We also, sirs, sincerely
desire to live in peace and friendship with England"--an announcement received with complete
silence. Some applause greeted his statement that he would welcome any definite proof that
England desired friendlier relations with Germany.

Thus ended the year 1911. Frenchmen were sore at discovering that the Entente entailed no obligation
on our part to help them by force of arms[536]; and Germans, far from rejoicing at their easy
acquisition of a new colony, harboured resentment against both the Western Powers. Britons
had been aroused from party strifes and Labour quarrels by finding new proofs of the savage
enmity with which Junkers, Colonials, and Pan-Germans regarded them; and the problem was--Should
England seek to regain Germany's friendship, meanwhile remaining aloof from close connections
with France and Russia; or should she recognise that her uncertain attitude possessed all the
disadvantages and few of the advantages of a definite alliance?

[Footnote 536: Hanotaux, La Politique de l'Équilibre, p. 419.]

Early in 1912 light was thrown on the situation, and the Berlin Government thenceforth could
not plead ignorance as to our intentions; for efforts, both public and private, were made to
improve Anglo-German relations. Mr. Churchill advocated a friendly understanding in naval affairs.
Lord Haldane also visited Berlin on an official invitation. He declared to that Government
that "we would in no circumstances be a party to any sort of aggression upon Germany." But
we must oppose a violation of the neutrality of Belgium, and, if the naval competition continued,
we should lay down two keels to Germany's one. As a sequel to these discussions the two Governments
discussed the basis of an Entente. It soon appeared that Germany sought to bind us almost unconditionally
to neutrality in all cases. To this the British Cabinet demurred, but suggested the following
formula:

     The two Powers being mutually desirous of securing peace and
     friendship between them, England declares that she will
     neither make, nor join in, any unprovoked attack upon
     Germany. Aggression upon Germany is not the subject, and
     forms no part of any treaty, understanding, or combination to
     which England is now a party, nor will she become a party to
     anything that has such an object.

Further than this it refused to go; and Mr. Asquith in his speech of October 2, 1914, at Cardiff
thus explained the reason:

     They [the Germans] wanted us to go further. They asked us to
     pledge ourselves absolutely to neutrality in the event of
     Germany being engaged in war, and this, mark you, at a time
     when Germany was enormously increasing both her aggressive
     and defensive resources, and especially upon the sea. They
     asked us (to put it quite plainly) for a free hand, so far as
     we were concerned, when they selected the opportunity to
     overbear, to dominate, the European World. To such a demand,
     but one answer was possible, and that was the answer we
     gave[537].

[Footnote 537: See Times of October 3, 1914, and July 20, 1915 (with quotations from the North
German Gazette). Bethmann-Hollweg declared to the Reichstag, on August 19, 1915, that Asquith's
statement was false; but in a letter published on August 26, and an official statement of September
1, 1915, Sir E. Grey convincingly refuted him.]

Thus, efforts for a good understanding with Germany broke down owing to the exacting demands
of German diplomacy for our neutrality in all circumstances (including, of course, a German
invasion of Belgium). Thereupon she proceeded with a new Navy Act (the fifth in fourteen years)
for a large increase in construction[538].

[Footnote 538: Castle and Hurd, German Naval Power, pp. 142-152.]

Perhaps Germany would have been more conciliatory if she had foreseen the events of the following
autumn. As has already appeared, Italy's attack upon the Turks (coinciding with difficulties
which their rigour raised up) furnished the opportunity--for which the Balkan States had been
longing--to shake off the Turkish yoke. On March 13, 1912, Servia and Bulgaria framed a secret
treaty of alliance against Turkey, which contained conditions as to joint action against Austria
or Roumania, if they attacked, and a general understanding as to the partition of Macedonia.
Greece came into the agreement later[539]. No time was fixed for action against Turkey; but
in view of her obstinacy and intolerance action was inevitable. She precipitated matters by
massacring Christians in and on the borders of Macedonia. Thereupon the three States and Montenegro
demanded the enforcement of the reforms and toleration guaranteed by the Treaty of Berlin (see
p. 242). The Turks having as usual temporised (though they were still at war with Italy[540]),
the four States demanded complete autonomy and the reconstruction of frontiers according to
racial needs. Both sides rejected the joint offers of Austria and Russia for friendly intervention;
whereupon Turkey declared war upon Bulgaria and Servia (October 17). On the morrow Greece declared
war upon her. Montenegro had already opened hostilities. In view of these facts, the later
assertions of the German Powers, that the Balkan League was a Russian plot for overthrowing
Turkey and weakening Teutonic influence, is palpably false. Turkey had treated her Christian
subjects (including the once faithful Albanians) worse than ever. Their union against Turkey
had long been foretold. It was helped on by Ottoman misrule, and finally cemented by massacre.
Further, Russia and Austria acted together in seeking to avert an attack on Turkey; and the
Powers collectively warned the Balkan States that no changes of boundary would be tolerated.
Those States refused to accept the European fiat; for the present misrule was intolerable,
and the inability of the Turks to cope with either the Italians or the Albanian rebels opened
a vista of hope. The German accusations levelled at Russia were obviously part of the general
scheme adopted at Berlin and Vienna for exasperating public opinion against the Slav cause.

[Footnote 539: The claim that the Greek statesman, Venizelos, founded the league seems incorrect.
So, too, is the rumour that Russia, through her minister, Hartvig, at Belgrade, framed it (but
see N. Jorga, Hist. des États balcaniques, p. 436). Miliukoff, in a "Report to the Carnegie
Foundation," denies this. The plan occurred to many men so soon as Turkish Reform proved a
sham. Venizelos is said to have mooted it to Mr. James Bourchier in May 1911. (R. Rankin, Inner
History of the Balkan War, p. 13.)]

[Footnote 540: Italy made peace on October 15, gaining possession of Tripoli and agreeing to
evacuate the Aegean Isles, but on various pretexts kept her troops there. A little later she
renewed the Triple Alliance with Germany and Austria for five years. This may have resulted
from the Balkan crisis then beginning, and from the visits of the Russian Foreign Minister,
Sazonoff, to Paris and London, whereupon it was officially stated that Russia adhered both
to her treaty with France and her Entente with England. He added that the grouping of the great
States was necessary in the interests of the Balance of Power.]

The Balkan States, though waging war with no combined aim, speedily overthrew the Turks in
the most dramatic and decisive conflict of our age. The Greeks entered Salonica on November
8 (a Bulgarian force a few days later); on November 18 the Servians occupied Monastir, and
the Albanian seaport, Durazzo, at the end of the month. The Bulgar army meanwhile drove the
Turks southwards in headlong rout until in the third week of November the fortified Tchataldja
Lines opposed an invincible obstacle. There, on December 3, all the belligerents, except Greece,
concluded an armistice, and negotiations for peace were begun at London on December 16. Up
to January 22, 1913, Turkey seemed inclined towards peace; but on the morrow a revolution took
place at Constantinople, the Ministry of Kiamil Pacha being ousted by the warlike faction of
Enver Bey. He, one of the contrivers of the revolution of July 1908, had since been attached
to the Turkish Embassy at Berlin; and his successful coup was a triumph of German influence.
The Peace Conference at London broke up on February 1. In March the Greeks and Bulgars captured
Janina and Adrianople respectively, while Scutari fell to the Montenegrins (April 22). The
Powers (Russia included) demanded the evacuation of this town by Montenegro; for they had decided
to constitute Albania (the most turbulent part of the Peninsula) an independent State, including
Scutari.

In Albania, as elsewhere, the feuds of rival races had drenched the Balkan lands with blood;
Greek and Bulgar forces had fought near Salonica, and there seemed slight chance of a peaceful
settlement in Central Macedonia. That chance disappeared when the Powers in the resumed Peace
Conference at London persisted in ruling the Serbs and Montenegrins out of Albania, a decision
obviously dictated by the longings of Austria and Italy to gain that land at a convenient opportunity.
This blow to Servia's aspirations aroused passionate resentment both there and in Russia. Finally
the Serbs gave way, and claimed a far larger part of Macedonia than had been mapped out in
their agreement with Bulgaria prior to the war. Hence arose strifes between their forces, in
which the Greeks also sided against the Bulgars. Meanwhile, the London Conference of the Powers
and the Balkan States framed terms of peace, which were largely due to the influence of Sir
Edward Grey[541].

[Footnote 541: See Times of May 30, 1913; Rankin, op. cit. p. 517.]

They may be disregarded here; for they were soon disregarded by all the Balkan States. Seeking
to steal a march upon their rivals, the Bulgar forces (it is said on the instigation of their
King and his unofficial advisers) made a sudden and treacherous attack. Now, the dour, pushing
Bulgars are the most unpopular race in the Peninsula. Therefore not only Serbs and Greeks,
but also Roumanians and Turks turned savagely upon them[542]. Overwhelmed on all sides, Bulgaria
sued for peace; and again the Great Powers had to revise terms that they had declared to be
final. Ultimately, on August 10, 1913, the Peace of Bukharest was signed. It imposed the present
boundaries of the Balkan States, and left them furious but helpless to resist a policy known
to have been dictated largely from Vienna and Berlin. In May 1914 a warm friend of the Balkan
peoples thus described its effects: "No permanent solution of the Balkan Question has been
arrived at. The ethnographical questions have been ignored. A portion of each race has been
handed over to be ruled by another which it detests. Servia has acquired a population which
is mostly Bulgar and Albanian, though of the latter she has massacred and expelled many thousands.
Bulgars have been captured by Greeks, Greeks by Bulgars, Albanians by Greeks, and not one of
these races has as yet shown signs of being capable to rule another justly. The seeds have
been sown of hatreds that will grow and bear fruit[543]." Especially lamentable were the recovery
of the Adrianople district by the Turks and the unprovoked seizure of the purely Bulgar district
south of Silistria by Roumania. On the other hand, Kaiser William thus congratulated her king,
Charles (a Hohenzollern), on the peace, a "splendid result, for which not only your own people
but all the belligerent States and the whole of Europe have to thank your wise and truly statesmanlike
policy. At the same time your mentioning that I have been able to contribute to what has been
achieved is a great satisfaction to me. I rejoice at our mutual co-operation in the cause of
peace."

[Footnote 542: Roumania's sudden intervention annoyed Austria, who had hoped for a longer and
more exhausting war in the Balkans.]

[Footnote 543: Edith Durham, The Struggle for Scutari, p. 315.]

This telegram, following the trend of Austro-German policy, sought to win back Roumania to
the Central Powers, from which she had of late sheered off. In other respects the Peace of
Bukharest was a notable triumph for Austria and Germany. Not only had they rendered impossible
a speedy revival of the Balkan League which had barred their expansion towards the Levant,
but they bolstered up the Ottoman Power when its extrusion from Europe seemed imminent. They
also exhausted Servia, reduced Bulgaria to ruin, and imposed on Albania a German prince, William
of Wied, an officer in the Prussian army, who was destined to view his principality from the
quarter-deck of his yacht. Such was the Treaty of Bukharest. Besides dealing a severe blow
to the Slav cause, it perpetuated the recent infamous spoliations and challenged every one
concerned to further conflicts. Within a year the whole of the Continent was in flames.

The Prussian and German Army Bills of 1860 and onwards have tended to make military preparedness
a weighty factor in the recent development of nations; and the issue of events has too often
been determined, not by the justice of a cause, but rather by the armed strength at the back
of it. We must therefore glance at the military and naval preparations which enabled the Central
Powers to win their perilous triumph over Russia and the Slavs of the Balkans. In April 1912
the German Chancellor introduced to the Reichstag Army and Navy Bills (passed on May 21) providing
for great increases in the navy, also forces amounting to two new army corps, and that, too,
though Germany's financial position was admitted to be "very serious," and the proposed measures
merely precautionary. Nevertheless, only Socialists, Poles, and Alsatians voted against them.
But the events of the first Balkan War were cited as menacing Germany with a conflict in which
she "might have to protect, against several enemies, frontiers which are extended and by nature
to a large extent open." A new Army Bill was therefore introduced in March 1913 (passed in
June), which increased the total of the forces by 145,000, and raised their peace strength
in 1914 to more than 870,000 men. The Chancellor referred gratefully to "the extraordinary
ability and spirit of conciliation" of Sir Edward Grey during the Conference at London, and
admitted that a collision between Germans and Slavs was not inevitable; but Germany must take
precautions, this, too, at a time when Russia and Austria agreed to place their forces again
on a peace footing. Germany, far from relaxing her efforts after the sharp rebuff to the Slavonic
cause in the summer of 1913, continued her military policy. It caused grave apprehension, especially
as the new drastic taxes (estimated to produce £50,000,000) were loudly declared a burden that
could not long be borne. As to the naval proposals, the Chancellor commended Mr. Churchill's
suggestion (on March 26) of a "naval holiday," but said there were many difficulties in the way.

The British Naval Budget of 1912 had provided for a six years' programme of 25 Dreadnoughts
against Germany's 14; and for every extra German ship two British would be added. In March
1913 this was continued, with the offer of a "holiday" for 1914 if Germany would soon accept.
No acceptance came. The peace strength of the British Regular Army was reckoned early in 1914
at 156,000 men, with about 250,000 effective Territorials.

The increases in the German army induced the French Chambers, in July 1913, to recur to three
years' military service, that of two years being considered inadequate in face of the new menace
from beyond the Rhine[544]. Jaurès and the Socialists, who advocated a national militia on
the Swiss system, were beaten by 496 votes to 77, whereupon some of them resorted to obstructive
tactics, and the measure was carried with some difficulty on July 8. The General Confederation
of Labour and the Anarchist Congress both announced their resolve to keep up the agitation
in the army against the three years' service. Mutinous symptoms had already appeared. The military
equipment of the French army was officially admitted to be in an unsatisfactory state during
the debate of July 13, 1914, when it appeared that France was far from ready for a campaign.
The peace strength of the army was then reckoned at 645,000 men.

[Footnote 544: The Temps of March 30, 1913, estimated that Germany would soon have 500,000
men in her first line, as against 175,000 French, unless France recurred to three years' service.
See M. Sembat, Faites un Roi, si non faites la Paix.]

In Russia in 1912 the chief efforts were concentrated on the navy. As regards the army, it
was proposed in the Budget of July 1913 to retain 300,000 men on active service for six months
longer than before, thus strengthening the forces, especially during the winter months. Apart
from this measure (a reply to that of Germany) no important development took place in 1912-14.
The peace strength of the Russian army for Europe in 1914 exceeded 1,200,000[545]. That of
Austria-Hungary exceeded 460,000 men, that of Italy 300,000 men. Consequently the Triple Entente
had on foot just over 2,000,000 men as against 1,590,000 for the Triple Alliance; but the latter
group formed a solid well-prepared block, while the Triple Entente were separate units; and
the Russian and British forces could not be speedily marshalled at the necessary points on
the Continent. Moreover, all great wars, especially from the time of Frederick the Great, have
shown the advantage of the central position, if vigorously and skilfully used.

[Footnote 545: G. Alexinsky, La Russie et la guerre, pp. 83-88.]

In these considerations lies the key to the European situation in the summer of 1914. The simmering
of fiscal discontent and unsated military pride in Germany caused general alarm, especially
when the memories of the Wars of Liberation of 1813-14 were systematically used to excite bellicose
ardour against France. Against England it needed no official stimulus, for professors and teachers
had long taught that "England was the foe." In particular preparations had been made in South-West
Africa for stirring up a revolt of the Boers as a preliminary to the expulsion of the British
from South Africa. Relations had been established with De Wet and Maritz. In 1913 the latter
sent an agent to the German colony asking what aid the Kaiser would give and how far he would
guarantee the independence of South Africa. The reply came: "I will not only acknowledge the
independence of South Africa, but I will even guarantee it, provided the rebellion is started
immediately[546]." The reason for the delay is not known. Probably on further inquiry it was
found that the situation was not ready either in Europe or in South Africa. But as to German
preparations for a war with England both in South-West Africa and Egypt there can be no doubt.
India and probably Ireland also were not neglected.

[Footnote 546: General Botha's speech at Cape Town, July 25, 1915.]

In fact a considerable part of the German people looked forward to a war with Great Britain
as equally inevitable and desirable. She was rich and pleasure-loving; her Government was apt
to wait till public opinion had been decisively pronounced; her sons, too selfish to defend
her, paid "mercenaries" to do it. Her scattered possessions would therefore fall an easy prey
to a well-organised, warlike, and thoroughly patriotic nation. Let the world belong to the
ablest race, the Germanic. Such had been the teachings of Treitschke and his disciples long
before the Boer War or the Anglo-French Entente. Those events and the Morocco Question in 1905
and 1911 sharpened the rivalry; but it is a superficial reading of events to suppose that Morocco
caused the rivalry, which clearly originated in the resolve of the Germans to possess a World-Empire.
So soon as their influential classes distinctly framed that resolve a conflict was inevitable
with Great Britain, which blocked their way to the Ocean and possessed in every sea valuable
colonies which she seemed little able to defend. The Morocco affair annoyed them because, firstly,
they wanted that strategic position, and secondly, they desired to sunder the Anglo-French
Entente. But Morocco was settled in 1911, and still the friction continued unabated. There
remained the Eastern Question, a far more serious affair; for on it hung the hopes of Germany
in the Orient and of Austria in the Balkans.

The difficulty for Germany was, how to equate her world-wide ambitions with the restricted
and diverse aims of Austria and Italy. The interests of the two Central Empires harmonised
only respecting the Eastern Question. Weltpolitik in general and Morocco in particular did
not in the least concern Austria. Further, the designs of Vienna and Rome on Albania clashed
hopelessly. An effort was made in the Triple Alliance, as renewed in 1912, to safeguard Italian
interests by insisting that, if Austria gained ground in the Balkans, Italy should have "compensation."
The effort to lure the Government of Rome into Balkan adventures prompted the Austrian offer
of August 9, 1913, for joint action against Servia. Italy refused, alleging that, as Servia
was not guilty of aggression, the Austro-Italian Alliance did not hold good for such a venture.
Germany also refused the Austrian offer--why is not clear. Austria was annoyed with the gains
of Servia in the Peace of Bukharest, for which Kaiser William was largely responsible. Probably,
then, they differed as to some of the details of the Balkan settlement. But it is far more
probable that Germany checked the Austrians because she was not yet fully ready for vigorous
action. The doctrine of complete preparedness was edifyingly set forth by a well-informed writer,
Rohrbach, who, in 1912, urged his countrymen to be patient. In 1911 they had been wrong to
worry France and England about Morocco, where German interests were not vital. Until the Bagdad
and Hedjaz Railways had neared their goals, Turkish co-operation in an attack on Egypt would
be weak. Besides, adds Rohrbach, the Kiel-North Sea Canal was not ready, and Heligoland and
other coast defences were not sufficiently advanced for Germany confidently to face a war with
England. Thanks to the Kaiser, the fleet would soon be in a splendid condition, and then Germany
could launch out boldly in the world. The same course was urged by Count Reventlow early in
1914. Germany must continue to arm, though fully conscious that she was "constructing for her
foreign politics and diplomacy, a Calvary which nolens volens she would have to climb[547]."

[Footnote 547: Rohrbach, Der deutsche Gedanke in der Welt (1912), p. 216 (more than 10,000
copies of this work were sold in a year); Reventlow, Deutschlands auswärtige Politik, p. 251.]

Other evidence, especially from Bernhardi, Frobenius, and the works of the Pan-German and Navy
Leagues, might be quoted in proof of Germany's design to begin war when she was fully prepared.
Now, the immense sums voted in the War Budget of 1913 had not as yet provided the stores of
artillery and ammunition that were to astonish the world. Nor had Turkey recovered from the
wounds of 1912. Nor was the enlarged Kiel-North Sea Canal ready. Its opening at Midsummer 1914
created a naval situation far more favourable to Germany. A year earlier a French naval officer
had prophesied that she would await the opening of the canal before declaring war[548].

[Footnote 548: Revue des questions diplomatiques (1913), pp. 417-18.]

At Midsummer 1914 the general position was as follows. Germany had reached the pitch of perfection
in armaments, and the Kiel Canal was open. France was unready, though the three years' service
promised to improve her army. The Russian forces were slowly improving in number and cohesion.
Belgium also, alarmed by the German menace both in Europe and on the Congo, had in 1912-13
greatly extended the principle of compulsory service, so that in 1914 she would have more than
200,000 men available, and by 1926 as many as 340,000. In naval strength it was unlikely that
Germany would catch up Great Britain. But the submarine promised to make even the most powerful
ironclads of doubtful value.

Consequently, Germany and her friends (except perhaps Turkey) could never hope to have a longer
lead over the Entente Powers than in 1914, at least as regards efficiency and preparedness.
Therefore in the eyes of the military party at Berlin the problem resembled that of 1756, which
Frederick the Great thus stated: "The war was equally certain and inevitable. It only remained
to calculate whether there was more advantage in deferring it a few months or beginning at
once." We know what followed in 1756--the invasion of neutral Saxony, because she had not completed
her armaments[549]. For William II. in 1914 the case of Belgium was very similar. She afforded
him the shortest way of striking at his enemy and the richest land for feeding the German forces.
That Prussia had guaranteed Belgian neutrality counted as naught; that in 1912 Lord Haldane
had warned him of the hostility of England if he invaded Belgium was scarcely more important.
William, like his ancestor, acted solely on military considerations. He despised England: for
was she not distracted by fierce party feuds, by Labour troubles, by wild women, and by what
seemed to be the beginnings of civil war in Ireland? All the able rulers of the House of Hohenzollern
have discerned when to strike and to strike hard. In July 1914 William II.'s action was typically
Hohenzollern; and by this time his engaging personality and fiery speeches, aided by professorial
and Press propaganda, had thoroughly Prussianised Germany. In regard to moral as well as matériel,
"the day" had come by Midsummer 1914.

[Footnote 549: Frédéric, Hist. de la guerre de sept Ans, i. p. 37.]

Moreover, her generally passive partner, Austria, was then excited to frenzy by the murder
of the heir to the throne, Archduke Francis Ferdinand. The criminals were Austrian Serbs; but
no proof was then or has since been forthcoming as to the complicity of the Servian Government.
Nevertheless, in the state of acute tension long existing between Servia and Austria-Hungary,
the affair seemed the climax of a series of efforts at wrecking the Dual Monarchy and setting
up a Serbo-Croatian Kingdom. Therefore German and Magyar sentiment caught flame, and war with
Servia was loudly demanded. Dr. Dillon, while minimising the question of the murder, prophesied
that the quarrel would develop into a gigantic struggle between Teuton and Slav[550]. In this
connection we must remember that the Central Empires had twice dictated to the rest of Europe:
first, in the Bosnian crisis of 1908-9; secondly, in the negotiations which led to the Treaty
of Bukharest (August 1913). On other occasions Kaiser William had bent the will of Tsar Nicholas
II., notably in the Potsdam interview of November 1910. It is therefore possible that Berlin
reckoned once more on the complaisance of Russia; and in that event Austria would have dragooned
Servia and refashioned the Balkan lands at her will, Germany meanwhile "keeping the ring."
This explanation of the crisis is, however, open to the objection that the questions at issue
more vitally affected Russia than did those of 1908-10, and she had nearly recovered normal
strength. Unless the politicians of Berlin and Vienna were blind, they must have foreseen that
Russia would aid Servia in resisting the outrageous demands sent from Vienna to Belgrade on
July 23. Those demands were incompatible with Servia's independence; and though she, within
the stipulated forty-eight hours, acquiesced in all save two of them, the Austrian Government
declared war (July 28). In so doing it relied on the assurances of the German Ambassador, von
Tchirsky, that Russia would not fight. But by way of retort to the Austrian order for complete
mobilisation (July 31, 1 A.M.), Russia quite early on that same day ordered a similar measure[551].

[Footnote 550: Daily Telegraph, July 25, 1914.]

[Footnote 551: J'accuse, pp. 134-5 (German edition). The partial mobilisations of Austria and
Russia earlier were intended to threaten and protect Servia. The time of Austria's order for
complete mobilisation is shown in French Yellow Book, No. 115. That of Russia in Austrian "Rotbuch,"
No. 52, and Russian Orange Book, No. 77.]

The procedure of Austria and Germany now claims our attention. The policy of Count Berchtold,
Austria's Foreign Minister, had generally been pacific. On July 28 he yielded to popular clamour
for war against Servia, but only, it appears, because of his belief that "Russia would have
no right to intervene after receiving his assurance that Austria sought no territorial aggrandisement."
On July 30 and 31 he consented to continue friendly discussions with Russia. Even on August
1 the Austrian Ambassador at Petrograd expressed to the Foreign Minister, Sazonoff, the hope
that things had not gone too far[552]. There was then still a hope that Sir Edward Grey's offer
of friendly mediation might be accepted by Germany, Austria, and Russia. But on August 1 Germany
declared war on Russia.

[Footnote 552: Austrian "Rotbuch," Nos. 50-56; British White Papers, Miscellaneous (1914),
No. 6 (No. 137), and No. 10, p. 3; French Yellow Book, No. 120.]

It is well to remember that by her action in August 1913 she held back Austria from a warlike
policy. In July 1914 some of Germany's officials knew of the tenor of the Austrian demands
on the Court of Belgrade; and her Ambassador at Vienna stated on July 26 that Germany knew
what she was doing in backing up Austria. Kaiser William, who had been on a yachting cruise,
hurriedly returned to Berlin on the night of July 26-27. He must have approved of Austria's
declaration of war against Servia on July 28, for on that day his Chancellor, Bethmann-Hollweg,
finally rejected Sir Edward Grey's proposal of a Peace Conference to settle that dispute. The
Chancellor then also expressed to our Ambassador, Sir Edward Goschen, the belief that Russia
had no right to intervene in the Austro-Serb affair. The Austrian Ambassador at Berlin also
opined that "Russia neither wanted nor was in a position to make war." This belief was widely
expressed in diplomatic circles at Berlin. Military men probably viewed matters from that standpoint;
and in all probability there was a struggle between the civilians and the soldiers, which seems
to have ended in a victory for the latter in an important Council meeting held at Potsdam on
the evening of July 29. Immediately afterwards the Chancellor summoned Sir Edward Goschen and
made to him the "infamous proposals" for the neutrality of Great Britain in case of a European
War, provided that Germany (1) would engage to take no territory from the mainland of France
(he would make no promise respecting the French colonies); (2) would respect the neutrality
of Holland; (3) would restore the independence of Belgium in case the French menace compelled
her to invade that country.

These proposals prove that by the evening of July 29 Germany regarded war as imminent[553].
But why? Even in the East matters did not as yet threaten such a conflict. Russia had declared
that Servia was not to be made a vassal of the Hapsburgs; and, to give effect to that declaration,
she had mobilised the southern and eastern portions of her forces as a retort to a similar
partial mobilisation by Austria. But neither Russia nor, perhaps, Austria wished for, or expected,
a European war[554]. Austria seems to have expected a limited war, i.e. only with the Serbs.
She denied that the Russians had any right to intervene so long as she did not annex Serb land.
Her aim was to reduce the Serbs to vassalage, and she expected Germany successfully to prevent
Russia's intervention, as in 1909[555]. The German proposals of July 29 are the first clear
sign of a general conflict; for they presumed the probability of a war with France in which
Belgium, and perhaps England, might be involved while Holland would be left alone. In the course
of his remarks the Chancellor said that "he had in mind a general neutrality agreement between
England and Germany"--a reference to the German offers of 1912 described in this chapter. As
at that time the Chancellor sought to tie our hands in view of any action by Germany, so, too,
at present his object clearly was to preclude the possibility of our stirring on behalf of
Belgium. Both Goschen and Grey must have seen the snare. The former referred the proposals
to Grey, who of course decisively refused them.

[Footnote 553: M. Jules Cambon telegraphed from Berlin to his Government on July 30 that late
on July 29 Germany had ordered mobilisation, but countermanded it in view of the reserve of
Sir Edward Goschen as to England's attitude, and owing to the Tsar's telegram of July 29 to
the Kaiser. Berlin papers which had announced the mobilisation were seized. All measures preliminary
to mobilisation had been taken (French Yellow Book, No. 107; German White Book, No. 21).]

[Footnote 554: Russian Orange Book, Nos. 25, 40, 43, 58.]

[Footnote 555: Austrian "Rotbuch," Nos. 28, 31, 44; Brit. White Paper, Nos. 91-97, 161. J'accuse
(III. A) goes too far in accusing Austria of consciously provoking a European War; for, as
I have shown, she wished on August 1 to continue negotiations with Russia. The retort that
she did so only when she knew that Germany was about to throw down the gauntlet, seems to me
far-fetched. Besides, Austria was not ready; Germany was.]

This was the first of Grey's actions which betokened tension with Germany. Up to the 28th his
efforts for peace had seemed not unlikely to be crowned with success. On July 20, that is three
days before Austria precipitated the crisis, he begged the Berlin Government to seek to moderate
her demands on Servia. The day after the Austrian Note he urged a Conference between France
and England on one side and Germany and Italy on the other so as to counsel moderation to their
respective Allies, Russia and Austria. It was Germany and Austria who negatived this by their
acts of the 28th. Still Grey worked for peace, with the approval of Russia, and, on July 30
to August 1, of Austria. But on July 31 and August 1 occurred events which frustrated these
efforts. On July 31 the Berlin Government, hearing of the complete mobilisation by Russia (a
retort to the similar proceeding of Austria a few hours earlier), sent a stiff demand to Petrograd
for demobilisation within twelve hours; also to Paris for a reply within eighteen hours whether
it would remain neutral in case of a Russo-German War.

Here we must pause to notice that to ask Russia to demobilise, without requiring the same measure
from Austria, was manifestly unjust. Russia could not have assented without occupying an inferior
position to Austria. If Germany had desired peace, she would have suggested the same action
for each of the disputants. Further, while blaming the Russians for mobilising, she herself
had taken all the preliminary steps, including what is called Kriegsgefahr, which made her
army far better prepared for war than mobilisation itself did for the Russian Empire in view
of its comparatively undeveloped railway system. Again, if the Kaiser wished to avoid war,
why did he not agree to await the arrival (on August 1) of the special envoy, Tatisheff, whom,
on the night of July 30, the Tsar had despatched to Berlin[556]? There is not a single sign
that the Berlin Government really feared "the Eastern Colossus," though statements as to "the
eastern peril" were very serviceable in frightening German Socialists into line.

[Footnote 556: German White Book, No. 23a; J'accuse, Section III. B, pp. 153, 164 (German edit.),
shows that the German White Book suppressed the Tsar's second telegram of July 29 to the Kaiser,
inviting him to refer the Austro-Serb dispute to the Hague Tribunal. (See, too, J.W. Headlam,
History of Twelve Days, p. 183.)]

The German ultimatum failed to cow Russia; and as she returned no answer, the Kaiser declared
war on August 1. He added by telegram that he had sought, in accord with England, to mediate
between Russia and Austria, but the Russian mobilisation led to his present action. In reply
to the German demand at Paris the French Premier, M. Viviani, declared on August 1 at 1 P.M.
that France would do that "which her interests dictated"--an evasive reply designed to gain
time and to see what course Russia would take. The Kaiser having declared war on Russia, France
had no alternative but to come to the assistance of her Ally. But the Kaiser's declaration
of war against France did not reach Paris until August 3 at 6.45 P.M.[557] His aim was to leave
France and Belgium in doubt as to his intentions, and meanwhile to mass overwhelming forces
on their borders, especially that of Belgium.

[Footnote 557: German White Book, Nos. 26, 27; French Yellow Book, No. 147.]

Meanwhile, on August 1, German officials detained and confiscated the cargoes of a few British
ships. On August 2 German troops violated the neutrality of Luxemburg. On the same day Sir
Edward Grey assured the French ambassador, M. Paul Cambon, that if the German fleet attacked
that of France or her coasts, the British fleet would afford protection. This assurance depended,
however, on the sanction of Parliament. It is practically certain that Parliament would have
sanctioned this proceeding; and, if so, war would have come about owing to the naval understanding
with France[558], that is, if Germany chose to disregard it. But another incident brought matters
to a clearer issue. On August 3, German troops entered Belgium, though on the previous day
the German ambassador had assured the Government of King Albert that no such step would be
taken. The pretext now was that the French were about to invade Belgium, as to which there
was then, and has not been since, any proof whatever.

[Footnote 558: British White Paper, No. 105 and Enclosures, also No. 116.]

Here we must go back in order to understand the action of the British, French, and German Governments.
They and all the Powers had signed the treaty of 1839 guaranteeing the independence of Belgium;
and nothing had occurred since to end their engagement. The German proposals of July 29, 1914,
having alarmed Sir Edward Grey, he required both from Paris and Berlin assurances that neither
Power would invade Belgium. That of France on August 1 was clear and satisfactory. On July
31 the German Secretary of State, von Jagow, declined to give a reply, because "any reply they
[the Emperor and Chancellor] might give could not but disclose a certain amount of their plan
of campaign in the event of war ensuing." As on August 2 the official assurances of the German
ambassador at Brussels were satisfactory, the British Foreign Office seems to have felt no
great alarm on this topic. But at 7 P.M. of that evening the same ambassador presented a note
from his Government demanding the right to march its troops into Belgium in order to prevent
a similar measure by the French. On the morrow Belgium protested against this act, and denied
the rumour as to French action. King Albert also telegraphed to King George asking for the
help of the United Kingdom. The tidings reached the British Cabinet after it had been carefully
considering whether German aggression on Belgium would not constitute a casus belli[559].

[Footnote 559: British White Paper, Nos. 123, 151, 153; Belgian Grey Book, Nos. 20-25. For
a full and convincing refutation of the German charges that our military attachés at Brussels
in 1906 and 1912 had bound us by conventions(!) to land an army in Belgium, see second Belgian
Grey Book, pp. 103-6; Headlam, op. cit., ch. xvi., also p. 377, on the charge that France was
about to invade Belgium.]

The news of the German demand and the King's appeal reached Westminster just before the first
debate on August 3. Sir Edward Grey stated that we were not parties to the Franco-Russian Alliance,
of which we did not know the exact terms; and there was no binding compact with France; but
the conversations on naval affairs pledged us to consult her with a view to preventing an unprovoked
attack by the German navy. He explained his conditional promise to M. Cambon. Thereupon Mr.
Redmond promised the enthusiastic support of all Irishmen. Mr. Ramsay Macdonald, though demurring
to the policy of Sir Edward Grey, said, "If the Right Honourable gentleman could come to us
and tell us that a small European nationality like Belgium is in danger, and could assure us
that he is going to confine the conflict to that question, then we would support him." Now,
the Cabinet had by this time resolved that the independence of Belgium should be a test question,
as it was in 1870. Therefore, there seemed the hope that not only the Irish but all the Labour
party would give united support to the Government. By the evening debate official information
had arrived; and, apart from some cavilling criticisms, Parliament was overwhelmingly in favour
of decided action on behalf of Belgium. Sir Edward Grey despatched to Berlin an ultimatum demanding
the due recognition of Belgian neutrality by Germany. No answer being sent, Great Britain and
Germany entered on a state of war shortly before midnight of August 4.

The more fully the facts are known, the clearer appears the aggressive character of German
policy. Some of her Ministers doubted the advisability of war, and hoped to compass their ends
by threats as in 1909 and 1913; but they were overborne by the bellicose party on or shortly
before July 29. Whether the Kaiser, the Crown Prince, or the General Staff is most to blame,
it is idle to speculate; but German diplomacy at the crisis shows every sign of having been
forced on by military men. Bethmann-Hollweg was never remarkable for breadth of view and clearness
of insight; yet he alone could scarcely have perpetrated the follies which alienated Italy
and outraged the sentiments of the civilised world in order to gain a few days' start over
France and stab her unguarded side. It is a clumsy imitation of the policy of Frederick in 1756.

As to the forbearance of Great Britain at the crisis, few words are needed. In earlier times
the seizure of British ships and their cargoes (August 1) would have led to a rupture. Clearly,
Sir Edward Grey and his colleagues clung to peace as long as possible. The wisdom of his procedure
at one or two points has been sharply impugned. Critics have said that early in the crisis
he should have empowered Sir George Buchanan, our ambassador at Petrograd, to join Russia and
France in a declaration of our resolve to join them in case of war[560]. But (1) no British
Minister is justified in committing his country to such a course of action. (2) The terms of
the Ententes did not warrant it. (3) A menace to Germany and Austria would, by the terms of
the Triple Alliance, have compelled Italy to join them, and it was clearly the aim of the British
Government to avert such a disaster. (4) On July 30 and 31 Grey declared plainly to Germany
that she must not count on our neutrality in all cases, and that a Franco-German War (quite
apart from the question of Belgium) would probably draw us in[561].

[Footnote 560: British White Paper, Nos. 6, 24, 99; Russian Orange Book, No. 17.]

[Footnote 561: British White Paper, Nos. 101, 102, 111, 114, 119. I dissent from Mr. F.S. Oliver
(Ordeal by Battle, pp. 30-34) on the question discussed above. For other arguments, see my
Origins of the War, pp. 167-9. The ties binding Roumania to Germany and Austria were looser;
but anything of the nature of a general threat to the Central Powers would probably have ranged
her too on their side.]

Sir Edward is also charged with not making our intentions clear as to what would happen in
case of the violation of the neutrality of Belgium. But he demanded, both from France and Germany,
assurances that they would respect that neutrality; and on August 1 he informed the German
ambassador in London of our "very great regret" at the ambiguity of the German reply. Also,
on August 2 the German ambassador at Brussels protested that Belgium was quite safe so far
as concerned Germany[562]. When a great Power gives those assurances, it does not improve matters
to threaten her with war if she breaks them. She broke them on August 3; whereupon Grey took
the decided action which Haldane had declared in 1912 that we would take. The clamour raised
in Germany as to our intervention being unexpected is probably the result of blind adherence
to a preconceived theory and of rage at a "decadent" nation daring to oppose an "invincible"
nation. The German Government of course knew the truth, but its education of public opinion
through the Press had become a fine art. Therefore, at the beginning of the war all Germans
believed that France was about to invade Belgium, whereupon they stepped in to save her; that
the Eastern Colossus had precipitated the war by its causeless mobilisation (a falsehood which
ranged nearly all German Socialists on the side of the Government); that Russia and Servia
had planned the dismemberment of Austria; that, consequently, Teutons (and Turks) must fight
desperately for national existence in a conflict forced upon them by Russia, Servia, and France,
England perfidiously appearing as a renegade to her race and creed.

[Footnote 562: British White Paper, Nos. 114, 122, 123, 125; Belgian Grey Book, No. 19.]

By these falsehoods, dinned into a singularly well-drilled and docile people, the Germans were
worked up to a state of frenzy for an enterprise for which their rulers had been preparing
during more than a decade. The colossal stores of war material, amassed especially in 1913-14
(some of them certain soon to deteriorate), the exquisitely careful preparations at all points
of the national life, including the colonies, refute the fiction that war was forced upon Germany.
The course of the negotiations preceding the war, the assiduous efforts of Germany to foment
Labour troubles in Russia before the crisis, the unpreparedness of the Allies for the fierce
and sustained energy of the Teutonic assault,--all these symptoms prove the guilt of Germany[563].
The crowning proof is that up to the present (August 1915) she has not issued a complete set
of diplomatic documents, and not one despatch which bears out the Chancellor's statement that
he used his influence at Vienna for peace. The twenty-nine despatches published in her White
Book are a mere fragment of her immense diplomatic correspondence which she has found it desirable
to keep secret, and, as we have seen, her officials suppressed the Tsar's second telegram of
July 29 urging that the Austro-Serb dispute be referred to the Hague Tribunal.

[Footnote 563: See the damning indictment by a German in J'accuse, Section III., also the thorough
and judicial examination by J.W. Headlam, The History of Twelve Days.]

The sets of despatches published by the Allies show conclusively that each of them worked for
peace and was surprised by the war. Their unpreparedness and the absolute preparedness of Germany
have appeared so clearly during the course of hostilities as to give the lie to the German
pamphleteers who have striven to prove that in the last resort the war was "a preventive war,"
that is, designed to avert a future conflict at a time unfavourable to Germany. There is not
a sign that any one of the Powers of the Entente was making more than strictly defensive preparations;
and, as has been shown, the Entente themselves were formed in order to give mutual protection
in case of aggression from her. The desperate nature of that aggression appeared in her unscrupulous
but successful efforts to force Turkey into war (Oct.-Nov. 1914). No crime against Christendom
has equalled that whereby the champions of Kultur sought to stir up the fanatical passions
of the Moslem World against Europe. Fortunately, that design has failed; and incidentally it
added to the motives which have led Italy to break loose from the Central Powers and assist
the Allies in assuring the future of the oppressed nationalities of Europe.

INDEX.

Abdul, Aziz 168-9
Abdul Hamid II., 169-70, 174, 177-9, 185-6, 204, 223-4, 238, 245-9,
    259, 266-9, 274-5, 277, 285, 328, 436, 447-8, 453, 457, 591-2, 618
Abdul Kerim, 194-6, 200, 204, 206
Abdur Rahman, 389, 400, 404-5, 407, 417, 418-19, 428-31, 433
Abeken, Herr, 44
Abu Klea, Battle of, 480
Abyssinia, 335, 487, 504
Adam, Mme, 333
Adrianople, 221, 223, 229, 251, 270
Aehrenthal, Count, 613-4
Afghanistan, 334, 345-6, 366, 378-9, 386-91, 472, 527
  War in (1878-9), chap. xiv. 394 passim
Africa, Partition of, chap. xviii, passim, 586
Africa, South-West, 635-6
Agadir, Coup d', 621, 623, 625
Albania, 158, 229
Albania, autonomy of, 630-1
Albert, King of Belgium, 644-5
Albrecht, Archduke, 33-6
Alexander I., 31, 160-1, 297, 364
Alexander II., 145, 167, 173-5, 180-83, 192, 204-5, 209-10, 215, 222-8,
   234, 254-6, 289, 293, 295-8, 306, 308, 313, 318, 322, 325, 355, 398-9
Alexander III., 255-65, 272-86, 298-9, 301-4, 309-11, 331, 337, 340,
   343-6, 423-4, 428-9
Alexander, Prince of Bulgaria, 254, 260-82, 286, 339, 428
Alexandretta, 622
Alexandria, bombardment of, 450-52
Alfonso, King of Spain, 619
Algeciras, Conference of, 604, 606-8, 610
  Act of, 607
Alikhanoff, M., 424
Alsace, 94, 105, 132, 133-4
Alvensleben, General von, 61, 65-7, 77
Amur, river, 571, 572, 580
Andrassy, Count, 164, 232, 599
André, General, 600
Anglo-French Entente (1904), 601-4, 606, 607, 609, 622, 626, 636
Anglo-German Agreement (1890), 520-523,525, 532
Anglo-Japanese Compact, 597-8, 602
Anglo-Russian Conventions, 608-10
Angra Pequeña, 523, 524
Antonelli, Cardinal, 89
Arabi Pasha, 266, 444, 447-9, 452, 453-7
Archinard, M., 539
Argyll, Duke of, 371-2, 376, 417
Armenia, 220, 229, 242, 244, 250, 307
Army Bill, French (1875), 119, 121-2
Arnim, Count von, 123, 318
Artomoroff, Colonel, 504
Asquith, H.H., 626-8
Atbara, Battle of the, 490-91
Augustenburg, Duke of, 16
Aumale, Duc d', 117
Austria, 4-23, 32-7, 55, 63, 137, 148, 164, 177, 180-81, 184-6, 194,
    227-8, 231, 232, 238, 242, 246, 257-8, 259, 271, 282, 284, 318,
    320, 323-7, 331-3, 350-51, 485, 585, 592-3, 601, 604, 607, 609,
    612-17, 622, 629-32, 634, 637, 639, 644, 647, 649
  Army of, 635
Austro-German Alliance, 324-7
Austro-Prussian War (1866), 17-21
Austro-Russian Agreements (1897 and 1903), 615
Austro-Russian Treaty (1877), 179-180
Ayub Khan, 407, 415, 418-9

Baden, 12, 21
Baden, Grand Duke of, 130
Baert, Captain, 564
Bagdad Railway, 591-4, 609, 615, 622, 637
Bahr-el-Ghazal, the, 504, 506, 552, 558-9
Bakunin, 292-5
Balfour, Mr. A., 431-2
Balkan League, the, 629, 632
Balkan Peninsula, 25, 332
Balkan Question, the, 631-2
Balkan States, 586, 592, 616, 628-9, 633
Balkan War (1912), 624, 629-31, 633
Balkh, 399, 433
Baluchistan, 367, 381, 384-6, 432
Baring, Sir E., 463, 466-473
Batak, 170, 171
Batoum, 205, 229, 234, 241, 276
Bavaria, 18, 20, 21, 131, 133-5
Bazaine, Marshall, 63-5, 67-73, 75-8, 97
Bazeilles, 79-82
Beaconsfield, Earl of, 29, 165-6, 171, 175, 181, 182, 187-8, 220, 231,
    232-3, 234, 236-7, 240-41, 243-5, 287, 328, 380, 282-3, 391-3,
    400, 405, 440, 516
Beaumont, Battle of, 78
Bebel, Herr, 589
Bechuanaland, 530-33
Beernaert, M., 556
Belfort, 98, 104, 105
Belgium, 5, 16, 26, 148, 550-52, 555-7, 567, 625, 627-8, 638-9, 641-2,
    644-8
Bendereff, 271, 278-9
Benedek, General, 18
Benedetti, M., 40-43, 48
Bentley, Rev. W.H., 546
Berber, 473, 475, 478, 488, 490
Berchtold, Count, 640
Beresford, Lord Charles, 480
Berlin Conference (1885), 548-50, 552, 559, 562, 567
  Congress of (1878), 228, 235-42, 247, 259, 323, 328, 345, 388, 513
  Memorandum, the, 167-9, 181
Berlin, Treaty of (1878), 237-42, 253, 267-8, 275, 291, 332, 353, 612,
    629
Bernhardi, General von, 625-6, 638
Besika Bay, 168, 171, 172, 177, 224
Bessarabia, 160, 205, 230, 234, 260
Bethman-Hollweg, Chancellor, 620, 623, 625, 627, 633-4, 641-2, 645-6, 648
Beust, Count von, 32, 36, 37
Biarritz, 16
Biddulph, General, 398
Bismarck, Prince Otto von, 8, 12-22, 27, 30, 31, 39, 41-49, 85, 86, 89,
    94, 97, 103-5, 109, 114, 118, 123, 129-32, 137, 140, 141, 153, 164,
    168, 173, 184, 228, 257, 261, 282, 317-27, 332, 335, 336-8, 342, 426,
    446, 457, 513-15, 520-21, 527, 528, 534, 547, 548, 590, 599, 609
  and "Protection," 141-150
Bismarck, Count Herbert, 523-4, 528
Blagovestchensk, 584
Blowitz, M. de, 321-2
Blumenthal, Count von, 72, 77, 85, 94
Boer War, 585-8, 590, 597-8, 610, 636
Bokhara, 365, 371
Bonnier, M., 539
Bordeaux, 98, 99, 103, 105, 106, 116, 118
Bosnia, 163, 168, 238, 242, 258, 332
Bosnia-Herzegovina, annexation of, 612, seq. 640
Botha, General, 598
Boulanger, General, 126, 333, 337, 339, 341
Bourbaki, General, 98
Bourbon, House of, 3-6
Bourgas, 278
Bourgeois, M., 504
Boxer Movement, the, 583
Boxer Rising in China (1900), 588, 595
Brazza, M. de, 546
Bremen, 132, 142
Bright, Mr. J., 417, 452
British Central Africa Protectorate, 533
Broadwood, General, 487, 496, 498
Browne, General Sir Samuel, 394
Brussels, Conference at (1876), 545
  Anti-Slavery Conference at, 534
Buchanan, Sir George, 647
Bukharest, Peace of (1913), 631-2, 637, 639
Bukharest, Treaty of (1886), 272
Bulgaria, 157-9, 163, 170-72, 176, 180, 225, 229-30, 234, 237-9,
    251-288, 302, 333, 334
  Campaigns in, 194-216
Bülow, Prince von, 588-9, 596, 603, 605, 607, 617
Bundesrath, the, 133-4, 138
Burmah, 527, 530
  Annexation of, 432
Burnaby, Colonel, 480
Burrows, Brigadier-General, 407
Busa, 540
Busch, Dr., 22, 143

Cabul, 370, 381, 383, 387, 388, 390, 401-5, 412-413, 431
Cabul, Treaty of (1905), 435
Cairo, capture of, 455-6
Cairoli, Signor, 329
"Caisse de la Delte" (Egyptian), 442, 459
Cambon, Jules, 620
  Paul, 644, 646
Cameroons, 528, 533-6
Candahar, 367, 381, 387, 398, 405, 407, 413-18, 432
Canning, Lord, 368
Canrobert, Marshal, 72
Caprivi, Count, 520
Carnarvon, Lord, 225, 525
Carnot, President Sadi, 127
Casement, Mr. Roger, 558, 560-62, 565, 566
Cassini, Count, 580
Catharine II., 361
Cattier, M., 552, 563, 564
Cavagnari, Sir Louis, 401
Cavour, Count, 8-11, 13, 90, 142, 161
Centralisation of Governments, 111-112, 315
Chad, Lake, 537
Châlons-sur-Marne, 68, 74, 75
Chamberlain, Mr., 417
Chambord, Comte de, 117, 122, 123
Charasia, Battle of (1878), 402-3
Charles, King of Roumania, 192, 206, 210, 215, 230, 262, 632
Charles Albert, King, 6-8
Chevket Pacha, 626
China, 568, 571-2, 576-82, 595-7
Chino-Japanese War, 576-7
Chitral, 386, 388, 433
Chotek, Countess, 613
Christian IX., 14
Churchill, Winston, 627, 634
Clement, Bishop, 280, 282
Cobden, Mr., 142
Colombey, Battle of, 63-5
Combes, M., 349, 600
Congo Free State, the, 502, 541, passim chap. xix.
Congo, French, 622, 625
Constantinople, Conference of (1876), 174, 176-9
Constitution, French (1875), 124-5
  German, 132-7
  Turkish (1876), 177-9
Constitution of Finland, 308, 309
Cossacks, the, 360-62, 434, 435, 453
Coulmiers, Battle of, 97
Cranbrook, Lord, 387
Crete, 240, 248
Crimean War, 8, 13, 30, 31, 161-2, 345, 365, 425, 434
Crispi, Signor, 336, 337, 355, 600
Cromer, Lord. See Baring, Sir E.
Cronstadt, 343, 346
Crown Prince of Saxony, 74, 130
Currie, Sir Donald, 524, 528
Curzon, Lord, 423, 431, 432, 576
Cyprus, 328
  Convention, 234-5, 243-4, 250

Dahomey, 539
Dalmatia, 329
Dalny, 583
Dardanelles, the, 168, 222, 224, 225, 241
Decazes, Duc, 321-2, 440
Delagoa Bay, 525-6, 528, 534
Delcassé, M., 587, 601, 606, 607
Denghil Tepe, Battle of, 420-23, 500
Denmark, 4, 5, 13-16, 35
Depretis, Signor, 329, 335-6, 355
Derby, Lord, 166, 176, 178, 181, 222, 224, 225, 226, 231, 243, 440,
    524, 530
De Wet, General, 598, 635
Dhanis, Commandant, 553
Dilke, Sir Charles, 465, 563
Dillon, Dr., 639
Disraeli. See Beaconsfield
Dobrudscha, 197, 199, 229-30, 240
Dodds, Colonel, 539
Dolgorukoff, General, 280-81
Dongola, 474, 476, 479, 488, 489
Dost Mohammed, 368, 379
Dragomiroff, General, 197
Dreyfus, M., 600
Drouyn de Lhuys, 20
Drury Lowe, General Sir, 454-6
Dual Alliance, 342-50, 587-8, 590, 599, 609, 616, 644
Dual Control, the (in Egypt), 442, 443, 445, 457
Ducrot, General, 80, 81, 83
Dufaure, M., 126, 245, 246
Dufferin, Lord, 326, 424, 426-8, 429, 458, 461-2
Dulcigno, 246-7
Durand, Sir Mortimer, 433
Durbar at Delhi (1878), 383

East Africa (British), 520-21, 523
  (German), 520-23
East Africa Company (British), 519-22
Eastern Question, the, 155-189, 222-250, 383, 615, 636-7
Eastern Roumelia, 238, 253, 259, 260, 263-4, 268, 275-6, 333
Eckardstein, Herr, 527
Edward VII., 601, 608, 618-9
Egypt, 166, 244, 266, 275, 602, 636-7,
    passim chaps. xv. xvi. xvii.
Einwold, Herr, 527
Elgin, Lord, 368
Elliott, Sir Henry, 176, 177, 221
El Obeid, Battle of, 461, 462
El Teb, Battle of, 470
Ems, 42-5
Ena, Queen of Spain, 619
England. See Great Britain
Enver Bey, 630
Epirus, 241, 248
Erzeroum, 194, 241
Eugénie, Empress, 19, 29, 38, 47, 75, 87, 97, 139

Faidherbe, M. 538
Fashoda, 349, 501-6, 594
Faure, President, 127, 346
Favre, M. Jules, 87, 88, 94, 98, 103, 114
Ferdinand, Prince, 285-6
Ferdinand, Tsar, of Bulgaria, 612, 631
Fergusson, Sir James, 336
Ferry, M., 266, 329
Finland, 304, 307-14
Flegel, Herr, 535
Floquet, M., 126
Flourens, M., 343
Forbach, Battle of, 62, 63
Formosa, Island of, 577
Fox Bourne, Mr., 563
France, 3-6, 9, 19, 20, 25-9, 32, 33, 35, 46-9, 52-6, 87-9, 112, 161,
    228, 318, 320-24, 326, 333-6, 337-8, 341-5, 347-9, 350, 437-8,
    442, 446, 448, 452-3, 457, 458-9, 485, 513-514, 529, 535, 537-41,
    546-9, 558, 559, 577-9, 585-6, 591, 593-4, 597, 599-608, 614-6, 618,
    620-2, 624, 626, 638, 641-8
  and Morocco, 602, 604-7, 609-10, 620 seq., 636-7
  Army of, 634-5
France and the Sudan, 501-6
France and Tunis, 328-30
Francis Ferdinand, Archduke, 613-4, 639
Francis Joseph, 6, 32, 36, 173, 232, 318, 613
Franco-German War, causes of, 36-49
Franco-Italian Entente, 601
Franco-Russian Alliance. (See Dual Alliance)
Frankfurt, Treaty of, 105, 114
Frankfurt-on-Main, 11, 12, 21, 22
Frederick the Great, 594, 635, 638, 646
Frederick III., Crown Prince of Germany and Emperor, 18, 74, 76, 80,
    130, 136, 151, 236
Frederick VII., 14
Frederick Charles, Prince, 66, 68
Frederick William IV., 11-13, 31, 593
Free Trade (in Germany), 141-3
  (in France), 142
French Congoland, 506, 546, 622, 625
French Revolution of 1830, 5
Frere, Sir Bartle, 380-81, 524
Freycinet, M. de, 446, 447, 452, 456, 502, 503
Frobenius, Herr, 638
Frossard, General, 63-5

Galatz, 197
Galbraith, Colonel, 411
Gallieni, M., 539
Gallipoli, 222, 226
Gambetta, M., 87, 96-101, 110, 125, 318, 330, 446, 452, 538
Gandamak, Treaty of, 400, 418
Garde Mobile, the, 55, 94
Garde Nationale, the, 55, 94
Garibaldi, 6, 7, 9-11, 28, 90-91, 327
Gastein, Convention of, 16
Gatacre, General, 490, 492
Gavril, Pasha, 263
Geok Tepe. See Denghil Tepe
George V., King of England, 645
George, David Lloyd, 623, 625
German Army, 135, 633-4
German Army, Kriegsgefahr, 643
  Confederation (1815-66), 4-22
  Constitution (1871), 132-7
  Empire, 129. See Germany
  Navy, 587-9, 594, 609, 617, 628, 633, 638
  Zollverein, the, 141-2
Germany, 3-6, 11-18, 20-23, 27, 34, 39, 45-9, 51-5, 129-154, 164-6,
    223, 246, 275, 277, 282, 318-27, 329, 330, 337-9, 350, 447-8, 453,
    457, 472, 485, 513-18, 520-22, 524-30, 533-7, 541, 547, 559,
    577-9, 581, 585-9, 592, 595-7, 600-609, 615-18, 620-21, 623-8,
    632, 634, 635-8, 640-49
Gervais, Admiral, 343
Ghaznee, Battle of, 405
Giers, M. de, 258, 263, 265, 276, 281, 285, 302, 332, 333-5, 337, 424,
    427, 515
Gladstone, Mr., 29, 46, 172, 223, 244, 275, 356, 371, 372, 376, 380,
    392, 405, 417, 427-9, 446, 448-9, 452, 458, 461, 465, 484-5, 502,
    517, 524, 528, 530, 531
Glave, Mr., 562
Gold Coast, 539
Goldie, Sir George T., 535, 541
Gontaut-Biron, M. de, 421
Gordon, General, passim chaps. xvi. xvii.
Gortchakoff, Prince, 164, 168, 190, 222, 226, 320, 322-3, 366
Goschen, Lord, 244, 246, 442
Goschen, Sir Edward, 641-2
Gough, General, 404
Gramont, Duc de, 32, 40, 42, 43, 47
Grant Duff, Sir Mountstuart, 322
Granville, Earl, 45, 389, 425-6, 447, 463, 465, 470, 473-4, 517, 523,
    533, 547
Gravelotte, Battle of, 68-73
Great Britain, 14, 29, 30, 52, 95, 145, 147-9, 160-61, 168-77, 181,
    187-8, 190, 231, 259, 266, 282, 284, 322-4, 328, 336, 337, 342,
    364-6, 372-4, 382-4, 392-4, 400, 404-6, 417, 435, 513-14, 521,
    523-30, 533-7, 541, 547, 578-9, 581-2, 585-7, 600, 604-9, 616,
    618, 620, 622-3, 626-8, 636-9, 641-8
  Army of, 634
Great Britain and Egypt, passim chaps. xv. xvi. xvii.
Great Britain and Russia (1878), 222-8
Greco-Turkish War, 585
Greece, 5, 158, 160, 194, 227, 240-41, 245-8, 257, 267
Grenfell, Rev. G., 546
Grévy, M., 337, 355
Grey, Sir Edward, 503, 586, 623, 626, 631, 634, 641-7
Griffin, Sir Lepel, 405-6
Gurko, General, 201-3, 208, 219

Habibulla, Ameer of Afghanistan, 431, 435
Hague Conference, 608
  Congress, the (1899), 583
  Tribunal, 601, 649
Haldane, Lord, 627, 639, 647
Hamburg, 132, 142
Hanotaux, M., 504
Hanover, 11, 21, 23
Hartington, Lord, 417, 465, 476
Hayashi, Count, 596
Heligoland, 521, 637
Herat, 367, 368, 381, 387, 388, 405, 425
Héricourt, Battle of, 98
Herzegovina, 163-5, 170, 238, 332
Hesse-Cassel, 12, 21, 23
Hesse Darmstadt, 20
Heydebrand, Herr, 625
Hicks, Pasha, 461-2
Hinde, Captain S.L., 553
Hinterland, Question of the, 547, 550
Hohenlohe, Prince, 589
Hohenzollern, House of, 11, 39-41, 129;
  also see Germany
Holland, 5, 554-5, 641-2
Holstein, 5, 26
Holy Alliance, the, 5, 319
Holy Roman Empire, the, 136
Hornby, Admiral, 224
Hoskier, M., 340
Hudson, Sir James, 274
Hungary, 32, 36, 159, 263, 277
Hunter, General, 487

Iddesleigh, Lord, 519
Ignatieff, General, 174, 177, 181, 229, 230, 232, 332
India, 165, 212, 365, 368, 592
"International Association of the Congo," 545, 547-9
"Internationale," the, 292
Isabella, Queen, 40
Ismail, Khedive, 438-40, 442
Istria, 329
Isvolsky, M., 615
"Italia irredenta," 329
Italo-Turkish War, the, 624, 628
Italy, 4-11, 16-23, 28, 30, 34, 37, 38, 55, 56, 63, 89-92, 148, 228,
    266, 284, 319, 335, 350, 453, 485, 487, 540, 541, 567, 601, 603-5,
    607, 615-17, 624, 628, 631, 636, 643, 646-7, 649
Italy and the Triple Alliance, 327-331, 600, 601, 615, 624, 637, 647

Jacob, General, 385 Jacobabad, Treaty of, 385 Jagow, Herr von, 645 Jameson, Dr. 587 Janssen,
M., 552 Japan, 348, 572-4, 576-8, 581-4, 585, 597-9 Jaurés, M., 634 Jermak, 361, 569, 570 Jesuits,
the, 138 Jews, persecution of the, 304, 305 Johnstone, Sir Harry, 519, 541

Kamchatka, 570, 571 Karaveloff, M., 256, 259, 280 Kars, 194, 229, 234 Kassala, 487, 488, 491
Katkoff, M., 259, 283, 324, 332, 333, 334, 337 Kaufmann, General, 366, 383, 398 Kaulbars, General,
255, 257-8, 283, 284 Khalifa, passim chap. xvii. Khama, 533 Khartum, 437, 439, 445, passim
chaps. xvi. xvii. Khelat, Khan of, 384-5 Khiva, 365, 374, 377 Khokand, 383 Khyber Pass, 386,
390, 394, 401, 412 Kiamil Pacha, 630 Kiao-chau, 580-81 Kiderlen-Wächter, Herr, 621-2 Kiel,
North Sea Canal, 587, 604, 637-8 Kirk, Sir John, 518, 541 Kitchener, Lord, 441, 479, 598, passim
chap. xvii. Komaroff, General, 427, 428 Königgrätz, Battle of, 18-20 Kordofan, 461, 462, 470,
476 Korea, 568 Korsakoff, General, 254 Kossuth, 6 Krüdener, General, 200, 206-7 Krüger, President,
586-7 Kultur-Kampf, the, 139-41 Kuropatkin, General, 311-12, 314, 422-3 Kurram Valley, the,
394-7, 400

Labouchere, Mr., 336 Lado, 502, 558-9 Lagos, 539 Lamsdorff, Count, 575 Lansdowne, Lord, 433,
567, 597, 602, 606 Lavigerie, Cardinal, 534 Lawrence, Lord J., 365, 368-9, 371, 385, 387 Layard,
Sir Henry, 221, 226, 245, 246 Leboeuf, Marshall, 47, 53, 64, 65 Lebrun, General, 34-6, 65 Leflô,
General, 322 Le Mans, Battle of, 98 Leo XIII., 327, 331, 335 Leopold II. See Turkey Portsmouth,
Treaty of, 598 Portugal, 520, 525, 526, 540, 541, 546-9 Posen, 141 Primrose, General, 407,
411 Prudhon, 292-5 Prussia (1815-66), 4-22, 26, 51-5, 95, 130, 140, 141. See Germany

Quadrilateral, the Turkish, 194-7, 199-200 Quetta, 381, 385, 398, 412, 416, 432

Rabinek, Herr, 565
Rachfahl, Herr, 605
Radetzky, General, 209, 220
Radowitz, Herr von, 321
Radziwill, Princess, 236-7, 291
Rauf Pasha, 460-61
Rawlinson, Sir Henry, 380
Redcliffe, Lord Stratford de, 188
Redmond, Mr., 646
Reichstag, the German, 133-4, 140, 141, 145-6
Reventlow, Count, 587, 595, 603, 637-8
Revolutions of 1848, 6-7, 11-12
Rezonville, Battle of, 67-70
Rhodes, Mr. Cecil, 530-32, 541
Rhodesia, 532
Riaz Pasha, 445
Ribot, M., 346
Ripon, Lord, 406, 412, 417
Roberts, Lord, 379, 389, 392-3, 395-8, 402-4, 535
Rohrbach, Herr, 637
Rome, 7, 10, 38, 89-92, 95, 138
Roon, Count von, 17, 43
Rosebery, Earl of, 275, 276, 503, 519, 528
Roumania, 26, 157, 158, 162, 192-3, 220, 222, 225, 229-30, 238-40,
    257, 260-62, 269
Roumania, King of, 41
Rouvier, M., 607
Royal Niger Company, the, 526, 540
Rubber Tax, in Congo State, 565-7
Russell, Lord John, 14, 15
Russell, Lord Odo, 322
Russia, 5, 9, 12, 13, 26, 31, 32, 55, 95, 112, 145, 148, 161, 164-8, 172,
    182, 190-92, 231, 234, 240, 289, 290, 318, 322-7, 331-5, 337, 341-5,
    347-9, 371, 446, 447-8, 457, 458, 472, 485, 527, 586, 590-91, 593-5,
    597, 603, 606-8, 612-13, 615-17, 621, 624, 626, 629-31, 633-4,
    640-44, 647-8
  and Bulgaria, 253-88
  and Finland, 307-14
  and Japan, 585, 592, 598-9
  and the Jews, 304-5
  and Turkey, 222-7, 229-42
  army of, 635, 638
Russia in Central Asia, 359-66, 371-4, 376-80, 383, 387-91, 398-9, 403,
    419-30
  in the Far East, 595-6, 598, 614, chap. xx. passim
Russo-Japanese War, 598-9, 602
Russo-Turkish War, 585
Rustchuk, 194, 199, 208, 265, 280-82, 285, 334

Saarbrücken, Battle of, 61, 62
Said, Khedive, 438
St. Hilaire, Barthélémy de, 328
St. Lucia Bay, 519, 525, 527, 528, 534
St. Privat, Battle of See Gravelotte
St. Quentin, Battle of, 98
Saladin, 591
Salisbury, Marquis of, 176-7, 187, 232-4, 240, 243, 266-9, 272, 275,
    283, 287, 328, 336, 380-81, 383, 387, 428, 505, 519, 522, 540,
    554, 581
Salonica, 167, 229
Samarcand, 365-6, 371, 388-9, 604
Samoa, 588, 610
Samory, 539
San Stefano, Treaty of, 229-32, 233, 238, 253
Sandeman, Sir Robert, 384-5
Sardinia, Kingdom of, 8-11, 162
Saxony, 4, 5, 11, 18, 134-6
Sazonoff, M., 641
Schleswig-Holstein, 5, 12, 13-16, 21, 26, 142
Schnaebele, M., 334, 338
Sedan, Battle of, 77-88
Septennate, the (in France), 123
Serpa Pinto, 540
Servia, 158-9, 163, 167, 173-4, 180, 194, 225, 229, 232, 238, 242, 257,
    258, 267, 612-13, 615-16, 631, 637, 639-43, 648-9
Seymour, Admiral, 449-50
Shan-tung, Province of, 580, 581
Shere Ali, 369-74, 376-7, 379-80, 384, 386-8, 390-92, 398-400
Sherpur, Engagements at (1878), 404
Shipka Pass, 197, 201-3, 208, 220
Shumla, 194, 208
Shutargardan Pass, the, 402
Shuvaloff, Count, 233, 235
Siberia, 361, 366, 570-72, 574
Sibi, 398, 400
Simon, Jules, 103
Sistova, 196, 197, 199, 208, 217
Skiernewice, 258, 266, 284, 302, 332-5, 426, 515-18
Skobeleff, General, 198-9, 203, 210, 211-15, 220, 259, 330, 388-9,
    421-4, 431
Slave-trade, the, 558, 562
Slavophils, the, 310-12, 339
Slivnitza, Battle of, 270-71
Soboleff, General, 255, 257-8
Sofia, 210, 219, 271, 273, 278-9
Solferino, Battle of, 9
Somaliland, 540
South Africa Company, British, 533
South German Confederation, 21, 22, 35
South-West Africa (German), 523-7, 531-2
Spain, 40, 41, 42, 605
Spicheren, Battle of, 62, 63
Stambuloff, 256, 259, 264, 289, 283-6, 334
Stanley, Sir H.M., 465, 508-9, 543-4, 552, 553
State Socialism (in Germany), 150-53
Steinmetz, General, 71
Stephenson, General, 474
Stepniak, 294, 303
Stewart, Colonel, 466, 476
Stewart, Sir Donald, 398, 405
Stewart, Sit Herbert, 480
Stiege, Admiral, 623
Stoffel, Colonel, 53
Stokes, Mr., execution of, 565
Stolieteff, General, 388-90, 398
Stundists, the, 305-7
Suakim, 462, 473, 478, 486, 488, 518
Sudan, the, passim chaps. xvi. xvii.
Suez Canal, the, 166, 190, 225, 438, 439, 457, 513
Suleiman Pasha, 204, 208-9, 215, 216, 219, 221
Swat Valley, the, 433
Sweden, 4, 5
Switzerland, 98, 148

Tamai, Battle of, 470
Tangier, 614
Tashkend, 365, 388, 433
Tatisheff, M., 643
Tchernayeff, General, 174
Tchirsky, Herr von, 640
Tel-el-Kebir, Battle of, 454-5
Tewfik, Khedive, 442-7, 452-3, 458, 461, 466-7, 487, 503, 507
Thessaly, 240-41, 248-9
Thiers, M., 26, 27, 47, 87, 94, 100-6, 108,
    114-19, passim chaps. iv. v.
Thomson, Joseph, 509-10, 535-6, 541
Thornton, Sir Edward, 427
Three Emperors' League, the, 179, 184, 319-23, 326, 332-4, 448, 515
Tilsit, Treaty of, 308
Timbuctu, 539
Tipu Tib, 553
Tirard, M., 341
Tirpitz, Admiral von, 589, 609
Tisza, M., 180, 283
Todleben, 216-17
Togo, Admiral, 598
Trans-Siberian Railway, the, 574-6, 580, 582-3, 599
Transvaal, the, 525, 527, 586
Treitschke, Herr, 626, 636
Trentino, 335
Triple Alliance, the, 21, 327-33, 335-9, 453, 515, 590-1, 599-601, 609,
    615, 624, 635, 637, 647
Triple Entente, the, 593, 595, 609, 617, 635, 647, 649
Trochu, General, 101
Tsushima, Battle of, 598
Tunis, 328-30, 436, 448, 513-14, 600
Turgenieff, 294, 295
Turkestan, 361, 364, 366-7, 419-30
Turkey, 5, 155, 168-77, 181, 187-8, 190-221, 229-42, 332, 342, 348,
    436-8, 446, 502, 567, 592, 613, 615-616, 618, 624, 628-30, 632,
    638-9

Uganda, 502, 522-3 Umballa, Conference at, 372-3 Umberto I., King of Italy, 327, 329-31, 333,
335, 336 United Kingdom. See Great Britain United Netherlands, Kingdom of, 5 United States,
the, 30, 31, 547, 567, 578, 581, 596-8, 607

Vandervelde, M., 557
Venetia, 5-11, 17, 19, 21
Verdun, 65, 68
Versailles, 103, 106, 108, 109, 129
Victor Emmanuel II., King of Italy, 2-11, 37, 63, 90, 327
Victor Emmanuel III., 601, 615
Victoria, Queen, 14, 145, 165, 171, 223-4, 261, 322
  proclaimed Empress of India, 382
Victoria, Crown Princess of Germany, 323
Vienna, Treaty of (1815), 4, 5
Vionville, Battle of, 67-70
Viviani, M., 644
Vladivostok, 572, 575, 580

Waddington, M., 240, 245, 246, 328
Wady Halfa, 439, 476, 478, 483, 484, 486, 489, 502
Waldeck-Rousseau, M., 600
Waldemar, Prince, 284
Walfisch Bay, 524
Wallachia, 160-62
Warren, Sir Charles, 531-2
Wei-hai-wei, 582
West Africa, 533-40
White, Major G., 402
White, Sir William, 177, 187, 265, 267-9, 273-4, 287, 302
Widdin, 194, 196, 200, 206, 270
William I. (King of Prussia, German Emperor), 11-22, 31, 32, 41-6, 73,
    104, 129-30, 137, 152, 236, 321-2, 325, 335, 339, 517, 594
William II. (King of Prussia, German Emperor), 151-3, 339-40, 342, 522,
    580, 582, 586-93, 598-9, 604, 606-611, 614, 616-7, 620-1, 623-4,
    632, 636-7, 639-41, 643-6
William, Crown Prince of Germany, 625, 646
William of Weid, Prince, 632
Wilson, Sir Charles, 480
Wimpffen, General de, 79-86
Winton, Sir Francis de, 552
Wissmann, Lieutenant von, 546
Wolf, Dr., 546
Wolff, Sir H. Drummond, 485
Wolseley, Lord, 454-6, 466, 475, 476, 478, 481, 507
Wörth, Battle of, 59-62
Würtemberg, 21, 131, 133-5, 137

Yakub Khan, 379, 400-3
Young Turk Party, the, 612-3, 616, 618
  Revolution (1908), 615

Zankoff, M., 280 Zanzibar, 516-21, 532, 553 Zazulich, Vera, 292 Zebehr, Pasha, 469-73 Zemstvo,
the, 293, 296, 301 Zola, Emile, 600 Zulfikar Pass, the, 428

