"Of course, I don't pretend to understand all the cat dialects. For example, I don't know a
word of the Angora dialect, and can only understand a sentence here and there of the tortoiseshell
dialect, but so far as good, pure standard cat language goes, it's as plain as print to me
to-day, though I haven't paid any attention to it for forty years. I don't want you to understand
that I ever spoke it. I always spoke English when I was talking with cats. They all understand
English as well as you do. They pick it up just as a child picks up a language from hearing
it spoken.

"Forty years ago I was a young man, and, like most young men, I fancied that I was in love
with a young woman of our town. There isn't the least doubt in my mind that I should have married
her if I had not known the cat language. She afterwards married a man whom she took away to
Africa with her as a missionary. I knew him well, and he didn't want to go to Africa. Said
he had no call to be a missionary, and that all he wanted was to live in a Christian country
where he could go and talk with the boys in the bar-room evenings. But his wife carried him
off, and it's my belief that if I had married her she would have made me turn missionary, or
pirate, or anything else that she thought best. I shall never cease to be grateful to Thomas
Aquinas for saving me from that woman.

"This was the way of it. I was living in a little cottage that belonged to my uncle, and that
he let me have rent free on condition that I should take care of it, and keep the grounds in
an attractive state until he could sell it. I had an old negro housekeeper and two cats. One
of them, Martha Washington by name, was young and handsome, and about as bright a cat as I
ever knew. She had a strong sense of humour, too, which is unusual with cats, and when something
amused her she would throw back her head and open her mouth wide, and laugh a silent laugh
that was as hearty and rollicking as a Methodist parson's laugh when he hears a grey-haired
joke at a negro minstrel show. Martha was perhaps the most popular cat in the town, and there
was scarcely a minute in the day when there wasn't some one of her admirers in the back yard.
As for serenades, she had three or four every night that it didn't rain. There was a quartette
club formed by four first-class feline voices, and the club used to give Martha and me two
or three hours of music three times a week. I used sometimes to find as many as six or seven
old boots in the back yard of a morning that had been contributed by enthusiastic neighbours.
As for society, Martha Washington was at the top of the heap. There wasn't a more fashionable
cat in the whole State of Ohio--I was living in Ohio at the time--and in spite of it all she
was as simple and unaffected in her ways as if she had been born and bred in a Quaker meeting-house.

"One afternoon Martha was giving a four o'clock milk on the verandah next to my room. I always
gave her permission to give that sort of entertainment whenever she wanted to, for the gossip
of her friends used to be very amusing to me. Among the guests that afternoon was Susan's--that
was the young lady I wanted to marry--Maltese cat. Now this cat had always pretended to be
very fond of me, and Susan often said that her cat never made a mistake in reading character,
and that the cat's approval of me was equivalent to a first-class Sunday-school certificate
of moral character. I didn't care anything about the cat myself, for somehow I didn't place
any confidence in her professions. There was an expression about her tail which, to my mind,
meant that she was insincere and treacherous. The Maltese cat had finished her milk when the
conversation drifted around to the various mistresses of the cats, and presently someone spoke
of Susan. Then the Maltese began to say things about Susan that made my blood boil. It was
not only what she said but what she insinuated, and, according to her, Susan was one of the
meanest and most contemptible women in the whole United States. I stood it as long as I could,
and then I got up and said to Martha Washington, 'I think your Maltese friend is needed at
her home, and the sooner she goes the better if she doesn't want to be helped home with a club.'
That was enough. The Maltese, who was doing up her back fur when I spoke, stopped, looked at
me as if she could tear me into pieces, and then flounced out of the house without saying a
word. I understood that there was an end to her pretence of friendship for me, and that henceforth
I should have an enemy in Susan's house who might, perhaps, be able to do me a good deal of harm.

"The next time I called to see Susan the Maltese was in the room, and she instantly put up
her back and tail and swore at me as if I was a Chinaman on the look out for material for a
stolen dinner. 'What can be the matter with poor pussy?' said Susan. 'She seems to be so terribly
afraid of you all of a sudden. I hope it doesn't mean that you have been doing something that
she doesn't approve of.' I didn't make any reply to this insinuation, except to say that the
cat might perhaps be going mad, but this didn't help me any with Susan, who was really angry
at the idea that her cat could be capable of going mad.

"The same sort of thing happened every time I went to the house. The cat was always in the
room, and always expressed in the plainest way the opinion that I was a thief and a murderer,
and an enemy of the temperance society. When I asked her what she meant to do, she would give
me no reply except a fresh oath, or other bad language. Threats had no effect on her, for she
knew that I could not touch her in Susan's house, and she didn't intend that I should catch
her outside of the house. Nothing was clearer than that the Maltese was bound to make a quarrel
between me and Susan in revenge for what I had said at Martha's four o'clock milk.

"Meanwhile Susan began to take the thing very seriously, and hinted that the cat's opposition
to me might be a providential warning against me. 'I never knew her to take such a prejudice
against anyone before,' she said, 'except against that converted Jew who afterwards turned
out to be a burglar, and nearly murdered poor dear Mr. Higby, the Baptist preacher, the night
he broke into Mr. Higby's house and stole all his hams.' Once when I did manage to give the
Maltese a surreptitious kick, and she yelled as if she was half-killed, Susan said, 'I am really
afraid I shall have to ask you to leave us now. Poor pussy's nerves are so thoroughly upset
that I must devote all my energies to soothing her. I do hope she is mistaken in her estimate
of you.' This was not very encouraging, and I saw clearly that if the Maltese kept up her opposition
the chances that Susan would marry me were not worth a rush.

"Did I tell you that I had a large grey cat by the name of Thomas Aquinas? He was in some respects
the most remarkable cat I ever met. Most people considered him rather a dull person, but among
cats he was conceded to have a colossal mind. Cats would come from miles away to ask his advice
about things. I don't mean such trifling matters as his views on mice-catching--which, by the
way, is a thing that has very little interest for most cats--or his opinion of the best way
in which to get a canary bird through the bars of a cage. They used to consult him on matters
of the highest importance, and the opinions that he used to give would have laid over those
of Benjamin Franklin himself. Why Martha Washington told me that Thomas Aquinas knew more about
bringing up kittens than the oldest and most experienced feline matron that she had ever known.
As for common sense, Thomas Aquinas was just a solid chunk of it, as you might say, and I got
into the habit of consulting him whenever I wanted a good, safe, cautious opinion. He would
see at a glance where the trouble was, and would give me advice that no lawyer could have beaten,
no matter how big a fee he might have charged.

"Well! I went home from Susan's house, and I said to Thomas Aquinas, 'Thomas,' for he was one
of those cats that you would no more have called 'Tom' than you would call Mr. Gladstone 'Bill'--'Thomas,'
I said, 'I want you to come with me to Miss Susan's and tell that Maltese beast that if she
doesn't quit her practice of swearing at me whenever I come into the room it will be the worse
for her.'

"'That's easy enough,' said Thomas. 'I know one or two little things about that cat that would
not do to be told, and she knows that I know them. Never you fear but that I can shut her up
in a moment. I heard that she was going about bragging that she would get square with you for
something you said to her one day, but I didn't feel called upon to interfere without your
express approval.'

"The next day Thomas and I strolled over to Susan's, and, as luck would have it, we were shown
into her reception room before she came down stairs. The Maltese cat was in the room, and began
her usual game of being filled with horror at the sight of such a hardened wretch as myself.
Of course, Thomas Aquinas took it up at once, and the two had a pretty hot argument. Now Thomas,
in spite of his colossal mind, was a quick-tempered cat, and he was remarkably free spoken
when he was roused. One word led to another, and presently the Maltese flew at Thomas, and
for about two minutes that room was so thick with fur that you could hardly see the fight.
Of course, there could have been only one end to the affair. My cat weighed twice what the
Maltese weighed, and after a few rounds he had her by the neck, and never let go until he had
killed her. I was just saying 'Hooray! Thomas!' when Susan came into the room.

"I pass over what she said. Its general sense was that a man who encouraged dumb animals to
fight, and who brought a great savage brute into her house to kill her sweet little pussy in
her own parlour, wasn't fit to live. She would listen to no explanations, and when I said that
Thomas had called at my request to reason with the Maltese about her unkind conduct towards
me, Susan said that my attempt to turn an infamous outrage into a stupid joke made the matter
all the worse, and that she must insist that I and my prize fighting beast should leave her
house at once and never enter it again.

"So you see that if it had not been that I understood what the Maltese cat said at Martha Washington's
milk party, I should probably never have quarrelled with either Susan or her cat, and should
now have been a missionary in Central Africa, if I hadn't blown my brains out, or taken to
drink. I have often thought that the man Susan did marry might have been saved if he had known
the cat language in time, and had made the acquaintance of the Maltese."

The Colonel paused, and presently I asked him if he really expected us to believe his story.
"Why not?" he replied. "It isn't any stiffer than Darwin's yarn about our being descended from
monkeys. You believe that on the word of a man you never saw, and I expect you to believe my
story that I understand the cat language on my unsupported word. Perhaps the story is a little
tough, but if you are going in for science you shouldn't let your credulity be backed down
by any story."

"LIONS IN THEIR DENS."

J. L. TOOLE.

BY RAYMOND BLATHWAYT.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY LOUIS GUNNIS.

(Photographs by Messrs. Fradelle & Young, and Falk, of Sydney.)

Every one who writes an article upon Mr. Toole begins by telling his readers how entirely lovable
a man he is, and I do not know why I should differ from every one else, for, in this case at
all events, what every one says is true. There are few actors, either in the past or present,
who have so thoroughly succeeded in placing themselves upon a footing of the most friendly
and cordial nature with their audience as Mr. John Lawrence Toole. And not only has he succeeded
in establishing such relations between himself and his audience, but he has been to the full
as successful in endowing the characters he has undertaken with those same lovable qualities
which have endeared him both to the public and to his own private friends. Few actors so entirely
breathe into their parts the very spirit of their nature and essence of their being as Mr.
Toole breathes into his. With high and low, rich and old, young and poor alike, he is a never-failing
favourite, and the moment his kindly face appears upon the stage, and the familiar voice once
again awakens the memories of bygone years, a burst of affectionate applause breaks out in
welcome of the dear old favourite of our English stage. No matter where a man has been; in
the Great Republic over the water, or in the burning lands of India, or in the New World under
our feet; when he returns, after years of absence, to the old country, and the familiar faces
have passed away, and all things have become new, yet there is still one face that is the same,
one voice in which there is still the old familiar ring, and to many such a wanderer old "Johnny
Toole" becomes the one connecting line between the dear old past and the cold new present.
And who does not know the aspect of the man himself--the short, sturdy figure, the slight limp
in his walk, the kind, pleasant face with the mobile mouth and the eyeglass screwed in the
smiling eye, and the hair, now sprinkled with grey, brushed back from the broad open forehead?
The genial, pleasant manner, the entire ease of the man, and the utter absence of all that
detestable putting on of "side" which is too often characteristic of the young actor of the
present day, how all these things go towards the explanation of his universal popularity! A
great sorrow has overshadowed the latter years of his life, a sorrow from which he will never
shake himself free, but which has only deepened the tenderness of the nature which is so characteristic
of the man. I spent a morning with him very recently in his house at Maida Vale. As he entered
the room and I asked him how he was, he replied, "Oh, well, I am pretty middling, thanks; an
actor's is such a hard life, you know," he went on, confidentially, as he pushed me into a
chair and took one himself upon the opposite side of the hearthrug. "I have just been reading
a whole bundle of manuscript plays, and you never saw such rubbish in your life. And then"--he
went on, plaintively enough--"I lose the things, you know; put 'em into a drawer, or with a
lot of other manuscripts and papers, and I can't lay my hands on 'em when they are sent for,
and then, oh, goodness! there's the deuce and all to pay; for I can assure you that no mother
thinks more of her first-born baby than a young author thinks of his first play, and if you
are not of the same opinion he regards you as the biggest idiot in the world." "Well, but,"
I ventured to remark--"why on earth do you bother about the things?" "Oh, well," said he--"you
know I can't help myself; you never can get away from them. For instance, I go out to a harmless
evening party, and a country parson comes up to me, the most unlikely man in all the world,
you'd think, and he'll say to me, 'My brother has just written a play, Mr. Toole; I wish you'd
just cast your eye over it.' And I can't say No, Mr. Blathwayt, I can't say No. Well, now you're
here," he went on after a moment, "you'll like to have a look round, won't you? I've got lots
of interesting things here. Come into what I call my study--although," continued he, with a
laugh, "I am afraid I don't get through much study. I am too busy to write, you know," he rambled
on in a voice and manner that was amusingly reminiscent of "Walker London." So into the study
we went, encountering on our way a big Australian black bird, which was wandering about the
house in an aimless and irresponsible fashion, crooning to itself memories of its Antipodean
home. Before we entered the study, Mr. Toole drew my attention to a beautiful model of the
picturesque old Maypole Inn in "Barnaby Rudge," with a number of the characters in the novel
wandering about in front of the house. There was Barnaby Rudge himself, there was his supernaturally
wicked old raven; old Joe Willet, the landlord, stood smoking in his shirt-sleeves, while pretty
Dolly Varden herself was tripping down to town. "There," said my host, "isn't that clever?
It stood for many years at the 'Hen and Chickens' in Birmingham, and Dickens used to admire
it very much when he used to visit that town on his reading tours." Two little Japanese figures,
reposing upon the top of the case which contained this model, looked down upon Mr. Toole as
he stood beneath them. He set their arms and heads moving, observing, as he did so, "Often,
when I am studying a part, I set those little figures going, they do for the public applauding."
In the study itself, the walls were thickly hung with pictorial reminiscences--chiefly of the
theatrical past. There were portraits of Macready in character, with his small, neat writing
beneath; there was Charles Matthews in some character as a boy, and a portrait of old John
Reeve, a celebrated comedian in his day; there was Mr. Toole as Paw Clawdian; there was Liston
as Paul Pry; there were any amount of portraits of his dear old friend Henry Irving. I was
much interested in an old theatrical bill of 1813 announcing Edmund Kean's appearance as Hamlet.
And then Mr. Toole brought in a large framed letter which hung up in the hall. It was a letter
from Thackeray to Charles Matthews when he was lessee of Covent Garden Theatre, and it was
written on the occasion of the Queen's first state visit to Covent Garden after her marriage
in 1840. A pen and ink sketch by Thackeray adorned a large half of the page, in which he had
represented Her Majesty with an enormous crown upon her head, and two or three queer sceptres
in her hand, talking to the Prince Consort, who sat with her in the royal box, in the rear
of which stood the members of the royal suite. In another corner of the hall there hung a letter,
carefully framed, which bore the signature of "Nelson and Brontë," and close beside it there
was a clever pencil sketch by George Cruikshank, representing a London 'bus full of people
of that period, and with the price, one shilling, marked up in large figures outside it--a
curious glimpse of bygone days. In Mr. Toole's dining room we found that clever lady artist,
Folkard, who some time ago painted so faithful a likeness of old Mrs. Keeley, engaged in giving
the finishing touches to an equally admirable portrait of my genial host himself. The dining
room, no less than the other room, was crammed with "virtuous and bigoted articles." There
was some beautiful old china which had once belonged to Charles Dickens, and some handsome
ivory elephants which Mr. Toole had brought with him from Columbo stood upon the sideboard.
A very lovely oil painting by Keeley Halswelle, not in the least in his usual style, represented
a far stretch of country, over the blue sky of which vast cumuli were massing themselves in
snowy piles. There was a portrait, by Clint, of Stephen Kemble, who, like Mark Lemon, used
to play Falstaff without padding. A painting of Joseph Jefferson, the celebrated American Rip
Van Winkle, reminded me of a splendid picture of his which I always used to admire so much
in the "Players' Club" in New York, and I observed, as Mr. Toole pointed out a clever sketch
by Mr. Weedon Grossmith, that it was curious to notice how many actors were also good painters.
"Why, yes," replied Toole with a quizzical smile, "I have painted a good many years myself."
"Oh, indeed," said I--not immediately catching his meaning--"may I ask what you have painted?"
"My face," said he, with an amused chuckle of much enjoyment at having caught me. Mr. Toole
then pointed out to me James Wallack, the father of the celebrated American actor, Lester Wallack,
in his favourite character of The Brigand. "Ah!" said Mr. Toole, "that reminds me of an anecdote
that's told about James Wallack, and which ought to be a warning to actors never to make speeches
from the stage. Wallack was playing The Brigand one night, and he was in the midst of his great
dying scene, when an old gentleman, who was sitting in the stalls, got up and put on his hat,
tied a scarf round his neck, and buttoned up his coat with great deliberation. Wallack got
very irritated, and just as the old gentleman was going out, he called out to him, 'The piece
is not finished yet, sir.' The old gentleman, who was not in the least disconcerted, replied,
'Thank you, Mr. Wallack, I have seen quite enough.'" When we returned to the drawing room,
into which I had first been shown, having specially noted on my way through the hall Keeley
Halswelle's sketch of Mr. Toole as The Artful Dodger in 1854, and a few pages from Thackeray's
MSS. of "Philip" which hung upon the wall, Mr. Toole took out an enormous photographic album
which contained the portraits of all the celebrities, big and little--and some of them were
very big indeed, and some of them were very small--who had been present at a great banquet
which was given in Mr. Toole's honour before he left England for his Australian tour. Everyone
was there--noblemen, journalists, and actors; legal luminaries and ecclesiastical dignitaries,
people of social prominence and scientific fame; all the principal figures, indeed, that go
to the making of this vast body politic. "I told a gentleman on board ship," humorously remarked
Mr. Toole, "that these were all the members of my company. I don't know if he believed me or
not." Then came albums full of autographs, old playbills, portraits of celebrated actors long
since crumbled into the dust, letters the writing of which was fast fading away, a characteristic
letter from Charles Dickens acknowledging a beautiful paper knife which Toole had sent him.

One of the letters which Mr. Toole most prizes, and the prayer of which, with Mr. Hollingshead's
assistance, he was delighted to grant, is the following characteristic epistle:--

                   "Belle Vue Mansions, Brighton, August 6th, 1873.

     "My dear Toole,--Were you ever in a mess? If you never were I can
     explain it to you, having been in several; indeed, I don't mind
     confessing to you that I am in one now, and, strange to say, you are
     perhaps the only man who can get me out of it. You need not button
     up your pockets, it isn't a pecuniary one. Only fancy! after thirty
     years' practice and experience I have made a mistake in my dates,
     and for the first time in my life find myself engaged to two
     managers at the same time. Now, they say a man cannot serve two
     masters, but I CAN if they will come one after the other, only one
     at a time, one down, t'other come on; but to play at Bristol and the
     Gaiety on the same night (and keep it up for a week) I don't see my
     way to accomplish. In a moment of enthusiasm I engaged to begin with
     Chute on September 29th, and I had scarcely done so when
     Hollingshead reminded me that I was booked to begin with him on that
     date, and that it could not be altered. Conceive my dismay. Chute
     holds fast--'can't be altered.' So does Hollingshead--'can't be
     altered.' Now, Toole--dear Toole, BELOVED Toole--can't you stay a
     week longer at the Gaiety? CAN'T you let me begin there on Monday,
     October 6th (as I thought I did), and get me out of my dilemma?
     Can't you make this sacrifice to friendship, and put three or four
     hundred more into your pocket? Virtue is not its own reward, but an
     extra week of fine business is. Now, Toole--adored Tooley--the best
     of men--first of comedians--most amiable of your sex--burst into
     tears--throw your arms and sob out, 'Do with me as thou wilt--play
     me another week--pay me another three hundred, and be happy.'
     Breathless with anxiety, yet swelling with hope, I must await your
     answer. Pity the sorrows of a poor old man, and even telegraph
     'Yes,' rather than keep me in suspense. What's a week to an
     able-bodied low comedian? Child's play! Why, you'll be wanting to
     throw in morning performances as well to keep you from rusting. It
     really is a chance for you. Avail yourself of it and bless me, and
     I'll bless you, and Hollingshead will bless us both, and Chute
     will bless us all.

     "With my intermediate blessing, ever faithfully yours,
                                                      "C. J. MATTHEWS."

This letter Mr. Toole read to me, exactly mimicking the tone and manner of his old friend whom
he still misses. I laughed heartily. "Well, now, Mr. Toole," said I, as we settled down for
a conversation on the art he loves so well and has served so faithfully, "has the public taste
altered much since you first started in your theatrical career?" "No," he replied, "upon my
word I don't think it has very much. My dear old friend Irving, however, has effected as great
a change as any man, and his influence has always been for good." "And what of the other Henry?"
said I, "Hendrik Ibsen?" "Henry Gibson?" said Toole, looking up; "why, I never heard of him."
"No! Ibsen," I explained, "Ibsen," smiling as I mentally contrasted the great Norwegian physiologist
and social Reformer, and the simple-minded, homely, old-fashioned Englishman whom we all love
so well. "Oh! Ibsen, Ibsen," said Mr. Toole, "I didn't catch what you said; I thought you said
Gibson, and I couldn't think who on earth you meant. Well," he said, "I don't like his work
myself. It's so unwholesome, you know. It seems to me such a vitiated taste. They put it down
to my ignorance; but if you ask me what I think," he went on confidentially, "I should say
there are very few who really care about him. He happens to be the fashion just at present.
I played Ibsen in 'Ibsen's Ghost,'" he continued, "and they said it was a beautiful make-up.
I don't know what the old gentleman would have thought of it himself. Have you seen Irving's
Lear?" he suddenly remarked, after a moment of silence. "I can remember many Lears, but I have
never seen anything like his. I have been tremendously moved by it; but it is far too great
a strain for him." Mr. Toole then drifted into eulogy of his almost life-long friend, upon
whose generosity and the beauty of whose character he never wearies of expatiating. "And how
do you think the comedy of to-day compares with that of past years, Mr. Toole?" said I. "Oh,
well," he replied; "I don't think things have altered much. It is true that there was a great
gap when Keeley, Buxton, Benjamin Webster, Sothern, and Charles Matthews all passed away within
a few years of each other. But we've lots of good comedians now, to say nothing of the vast
increase in the number of theatres, which, of course, gives far more opportunities to new men
than was the case in my early days. For my own part, though I almost invariably play low comedy
parts, yet, as a rule, I prefer pathos, I think." And, as he spoke, Mr. Toole handed me a photograph
which represented him in that very pathetic character Caleb Plummer in "Dot." "There," said
he, "that's one of my favourite characters, but people come to see me for fun, they don't look
much for pathos in me, except, perhaps, in the provinces. Ah! I like the provinces," he continued.
"I have many friends in them. The Scotch are a splendid people to play to, but then English
people, by which I mean English and Scotch alike, are very clannish, and very tender to an
old friend. I always feel when I appear upon the stage that I am in the presence of friends.
I don't think that French actors are so much regarded as English actors. We feel the affection
of our people so much. But, then, we go in and out as private friends amongst the people, more
than the Frenchmen do. Their best actors go out to a party, and they act for money, just as
they would in the theatre. I think that is very infra dig. myself. It seems to me that as soon
as the curtain is down the actor's work is over for the night, and when you go out to a man's
party you are his guest, but you cease to be so if you take his money. With singers, however,
the case is quite different. Some say I am over fastidious, but, mind you," went on Mr. Toole,
very earnestly, "I think it would be very snobbish not to join in the fun that is going on
as a friend, and help to make everything go pleasantly. As a rule, however, I consider that
on this account the English actor's social position is higher than that of a French actor.
You ask me about criticism," said Mr. Toole a little later, as we wandered on through different
fields of thought, over our wine and cigars. "Well," he continued, "it is very difficult to
say whether it has improved or not during late years. In the old days, you know, we had some
very good men; there was Oxenford, there was Bayle Bernard, there was Laman Blanchard, all
very good men indeed. In the present day, Clement Scott is exceedingly clever, of course; but
some of the young men are too much up in the clouds for me--they are very smart, I daresay,
but I don't know what they're driving at, you know; all the same, I don't think criticism has
any more influence than it had of old, in some cases not so much." And then, branching off
on another line, Mr. Toole said--"Did you notice those remarks in the paper the other day about
Fanny Kemble's father, and how he came to grief as a theatrical manager? I smiled when I read
them. I knew well enough how it was; it was that infamous 'order' system. Kemble actually gave
11,000 orders in one season. It's altogether a rotten, bad system. Hundreds apply to me every
week for orders who haven't the slightest claim upon me, and especially wealthy people, who
are invariably the greatest offenders in this respect, and yet, when they are refused orders,
they at once book seats for the play. Of course there are certain people who are thoroughly
entitled to orders, and I am only too glad to give them in such cases, but I draw the line
at giving them to any one who chooses to ask me. I can't go into a restaurant and get a dinner
for nothing--I wish I could; a tailor won't make me a coat for nothing--why should I play to
people for nothing? They cannot have any idea how much it costs to keep up a theatre, or perhaps
they'd have a little more consideration for one. It's a rotten, bad system, and it ought to
be done away with." Later on in the evening Mr. Toole and I drove down to the theatre together,
and we resumed our conversation in his very interesting little dressing-room. I congratulated
him on the long run which "Walker London" was having; "but don't long runs tend to artificiality?"
I asked. "No," said Mr. Toole; "a new audience every evening saves you from that, to a great
extent, especially with an earnest man. Earnestness is everything in an actor, but if you're
apathetic you're lost. Still, I sometimes look at Paul Pry's umbrella," continued Mr. Toole,
pointing to the quaint, queer, green old article that answered to that description, and which
stood by itself in a corner of the room, "and wish I could play Paul Pry again, but I don't
see much chance of that at present. Why, it will soon be 'Walker's' first birthday. I suppose
they'll want me to make a speech. And speech-making always bothers me, for I am very nervous.
But I daresay I shall 'gammon' through somehow." I observed, "Well, I must say you 'gammon'
through very well, for I always think you are one of the easiest speakers of the day." To which
Mr. Toole replied, "Well, for my part, I think repose is everything. Quiet humour is always
much more telling than noisy fun, and to feel your part deeply is far more than mere elocution."
"Do you think that the training that young people on the stage get, now-a-days, is as thorough
as it was in your early days, Mr. Toole?" "Well," he said, "I don't think that young actors
get so much practice as they did in the old days when Irving and I used to be for years together
on a stock company in Edinburgh. He and I and Helen Faucit have played all the parts in Shakespeare
together. But travelling companies have altered all that now-a-days. Still I think I must say
that I've got a very fairly good répertoire for my people. Did you ever hear how I took to
the stage?" he continued. "I used to be clerk in a wine merchant's office, and I was also a
member of the City Histrionic Club. Well, one night I went to the Pavilion; one of the actors
who used to give imitations of popular favourites didn't turn up, and so I was persuaded by
a man, who knew that I had been in the habit of giving imitations myself to our little club,
to take his place. It was then that I first tasted the sweets of an actor's life. It was then
I resolved to quit the merchant's desk for the stage. Do you see that playbill?" he continued,
pointing up to an old time-stained paper which hung upon the wall. "There," said he, "that's
the first time my name ever appeared on a London playbill. I appeared on that occasion for
'one night only' at the Haymarket Theatre, where a benefit was being given for Mr. Fred Webster,
in July, 1852." I glanced round the little room, in which are gathered so many memories of
the picturesque past, and in which so many of the best known men of the present day are so
frequently to be found having a chat with "Dear Old Johnny Toole." There was an amusing photograph
of Toole up to his waist in a hot lake in New Zealand surrounded by a number of Maoris. There
was a portrait of himself in his first part in "My Friend the Major." Charles Matthews, in
"My Awful Dad," smiled across the room at Paul Bedford and Toole, who were standing within
a picture frame together. There was a quaint old coloured print representing Grimaldi--for
whom Mr. Toole has a great admiration, and whose snuff-box he regards as quite a treasure--in
private life, and in his clown's costume. But to enumerate further the interesting pictures
that hang upon the walls of his little dressing-room would be to far exceed my allotted space.
I happened on the following night to be delivering a lecture at the Playgoers' Club on the
Church and Stage, and before I left I asked Mr. Toole his opinion on the subject. "Why," he
said, "I think that the Church and the Stage have a great deal in common, and I think that
they ought to be great friends, but I don't see that we need reforming any more than any other
branches of the community. For my own part, I have the greatest respect for the clergy, and
a great many friends amongst them, and I always go to church when I can. I am very fond of
going to Westminster Abbey. I like the music; it's so solemn, you know--it always stirs me.
I was very much amused at an incident which occurred to me the other day.