    "Provided that Mr. Barker himselfe print the sayde Testaments at
    the lowest value by the direction of the Master and Wardens of
    the Company of Stationers for the tyme being. Provided alwaye
    that Mr. Barker do reteyn some small number of these for diverse
    services in her Ma^{ties} Courtes or ... [MS. illegible] and
    lastlye that nothing that he yeildeth unto by meanes aforesaide
    be preiudiciall to her Ma^{ties} highe prerogative, or to any
    that shall succeed in the office of her Ma^{ties} printer."

The other printers named are, Mr. Totell, Mr. Watkins, Mr. John Daye, Mr. Newberye, and Henrie
Denham.

I wish to raise a Query upon the following:

    "Mr. Watkins, now Wardein, hath yeilded to the disposcion and
    purpose aforesaide this that followeth: viz.

    "The Broad Almanack; that is to say, the same to be printed on
    one syde of a sheete, to be sett on walls as usuallie it hath
    bene."

Query 1. Is this Broad Almanack the original of the present Stationers' Almanack?

2. When was this Broad Almanack first issued?

3. When were sheet almanacks, printed on one side of a sheet, first published?

B. H. C.

P.S.--The books enumerated in this MS., under the other printers' names, are some of them very
curious, and others almost unknown at the present time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

John Bunyan.--The following advertisement is copied from the Mercurius Reformatus of June 11,
1690, vol. ii. No. 27.:

    "Mr. John Bunyan, Author of the Pilgrim's Progress, and many
    other excellent Books, that have found great Acceptance, hath
    left behind him Ten Manuscripts prepared by himself for the
    Press before his Death: His Widow is desired to print them (with
    some other of his Works, which have been already printed, but
    are at present not to be had), which will make together a Book
    of 10s. in sheets, in Fol. All persons who desire so great and
    good a Work should be performed with speed, are desired to send
    in 5s. for their first Payment to Dorman Newman, at the King's
    Arms in the Poultrey, London: Who is empower'd to give Receipts
    for the same."

Can any of your readers say whether such a publication as that which is here proposed ever
took place: that is, a publication of "ten manuscripts," of which none had been previously printed?

S. R. MAITLAND.

Gloucester.

Tragedy by Mary Leapor.--In the second volume of Poems by Mary Leapor, 8vo., 1751, there is
an unfinished tragedy, begun by the authoress a short time before her death. Can you give me
the name of this drama (if it has any), and names of the dramatis personæ?

A. Z.

Repairing old Prints.--N. J. A. will feel thankful to any one who will give him directions
for the cleaning and repairing of old prints, or refer him to any book where he can obtain
such information. He wishes especially to learn how to detach them from old and worn-out mountings.

N. J. A.

{105} Arch-priest in the Diocese of Exeter.--I am informed that there is, in the diocese of
Exeter, a dignitary who is called the Arch-priest, and that he has the privilege of wearing
lawn sleeves (that is of course, properly, of wearing a lawn alb), and also precedence in all
cases next after the Bishop.

Can any of your Devonian readers give additional particulars of his office or his duties? They
would be useful and interesting.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

Medal in honour of the Chevalier de St. George.--It appears that Prince James (styled the Chevalier
de St. George) served in several campaigns in the Low Countries under the Marquis de Torcy.
On one occasion, when the hostile armies were encamped on the banks of the Scarpe, medals were
struck, and distributed among the English, bearing, besides a bust of the prince, an inscription
relating to his bravery on a former occasion. Are any of these now in existence? They would
probably be met with in those families whose ancestors served under Marlborough.

A. S.

Robert Bloet.--Can you certify me whether it is received as an undoubted historical fact that
"Robertus, comes Moritoniensis," William the Conqueror's uterine brother, was identical with
Robert Bloet, afterwards Chancellor and Bishop of Lincoln?

J. SANSOM.

Sir J. Wallace and Mr. Browne.--I inclose an extract from The English Chronicle or Universal
Evening Post, February 6th to February 8th, 1783. Can any of your learned correspondents state
the result of the fracas between Mr. Browne and Sir J. Wallace?

    "Yesterday about one o'clock, Sir J----s W----e and Lieutenant
    B----e, accidentally meeting in Parliament Street, near the
    Admiralty Gate, Mr. B----e, the moment he saw Sir J----s, took a
    stick which a gentleman he was in company with held in his hand,
    and, after a few words passing, struck Sir J----s, and gave him
    a dreadful wound in the forehead; they closed, and Sir J----s,
    who had no weapon, made the best defence possible, but being a
    weaker man than his antagonist, was overpowered. Mr. B----e, at
    parting, told Sir J----s, if he had anything to say to him, he
    would be found at the Salopian Coffee House. An account of this
    transaction being communicated to Sir Sampson Wright, he sent
    Mr. Bond after Mr. B----e, who found him at the Admiralty, and
    delivered the magistrate's compliments, at the same time
    requesting to see him in Bow Street. Mr. B----e promised to wait
    upon Sir Sampson, but afterwards finding that no warrant had
    issued, did not think it incumbent on him to comply, and so went
    about his avocations.

    "Sir J----s's situation after the fracas very much excited the
    compassion of the populace; they beheld that veteran bleeding on
    the streets, who had so often gloriously fought the battles of
    his country! The above account is as accurate as we could learn;
    but should there be any trivial misstatement, we shall be happy
    in correcting it, through the means of any of our readers who
    were present on the spot.

    "Sir James Wallace has not only given signal proofs of his
    bravery as a naval officer, but particularly in a duel with
    another marine officer, Mr. Perkins, whom he fought at Cape
    François; each taking hold of the end of a handkerchief, fired,
    and although the balls went through both their bodies, neither
    of the wounds proved mortal! The friars at Cape François, with
    great humanity, took charge of them till they were cured of
    their wounds."

J. LOCKE.

Dublin.

Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester.--I should be glad if any of your correspondents would refer
me to any authentic account of the death of Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester, Queen Elizabeth's
favourite. He is said by some to have been accidentally poisoned by his wife; by others purposely,
by some of his adherents. This affair, though clouded in mystery, appears not to have been
particularly inquired into. Likewise let me ask, on what authority is Stanfield Hall, Norfolk
(the scene of a recent tragedy), described as the birthplace of Amy Robsart, the unfortunate
first wife of this same nobleman?

A. S.

Abbott Families.--Samuel Abbott, of Sudbury, in the county of Suffolk, gentleman, lived about
1670. Can any of your genealogical contributors inform me if he was in any way connected with
the family of Archbishop Abbott, or otherwise elucidate his parentage? It may probably be interesting
to persons of the same name to be acquainted that the pears worn by many of the Abbot family
are merely a corruption of the ancient inkhorns of the Abbots of Northamptonshire, and impaled
in Netherheyford churchyard, same county, on the tomb of Sir Walt. Mauntele, knight, and his
wife Elizabeth, daughter of John Abbot, Esq., 1487, viz. a chev. between three inkhorns. The
resemblance between pears and inkhorns doubtless occasioned the error. I believe the ancient
bottles of Harebottle were similarly corrupted into icicles.

J. T. ABBOTT.

Darlington.

Authorship of a Ballad.--In the Manchester Guardian of Jan. 7, the author of a stanza, written
on the execution of Thos. Syddale, is desired; as also the remainder of the ballad. From what
quarter is either of these more likely to be obtained than from "N. & Q.?"

P. J. F. GANTILLON.

Elias Petley.--What is known of the life or works of Elias Petley, priest, who dedicated to
Archbishop Laud his translation of the English Liturgy into Greek. The book was published at
the press of Thomas Cotes, for Richard Whitaker, {106} at the King's Arms, St. Paul's churchyard,
in 1638. Is it remarkable for rarity or merit?

J. O. B.

Wicken.

Canaletto's Views round London.--Antonio Canaletto, the painter of Venice, the destruction
of one of whose most powerful works has been of late the subject of so much agitation, was
here amongst us in this city one hundred years since; as seen by his proposal in one of the
journals of 1752:

    "Signior Canaletto gives notice that he has painted Chelsea
    College, Ranelagh House, and the River Thames; which, if any
    gentleman, or others, are pleased to favour him with seeing the
    same, he will attend at his lodgings at Mr. Viggans, in Silver
    Street, Golden Square, from fifteen days from this day, July 31,
    from 8 to 1, and from 3 to 6 at night, each day."

Here is that able artist's offer in his own terms, if, not his own words.

I have to inquire, are these pictures left here to the knowledge of your readers? did he, in
short, find buyers as well as admirers? or, if not, did he return to Venice with those (no
doubt) vividly pictured recollections of our localities under his arm?

GONDOLA.

A Monster found at Maidstone.--In Kilburne's Survey of Kent, 4to. 1659, under "Maidstone,"
is the following passage:

    "Wat Tiler, that idol of clownes, and famous rebell in the time
    of King Richard the Second, was of this town; and in the year
    1206 about this town was a monster found stricken with
    lightning, with a head like an asse, a belly like a man, and all
    other parts far different from any known creature, but not
    approachable nigh unto, by reason of the stench thereof."

No mention of this is made by Lambarde in his Perambulation of Kent. Has this been traditional,
or whence is Kilburne's authority? And what explanation can be offered of the account?

H. W. D.

Page.--What is the derivation of this word? In the Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities,
edited by Dr. W. Smith, 1st edit., p. 679., it is said to be from the Greek ~paidagôgos~, pædagogus.
But in an edition of Tacitus, with notes by Boxhorn (Amsterdam, 1662), it is curiously identified
with the word boy, and traced to an eastern source thus:--Persian, bagoa; Polish, pokoigo;
Old German, Pagie, Bagh, Bai; then the Welsh, bachgen; French, page; English, boy; and Greek,
~pais~.

Some of your correspondents may be able to inform me which is correct.

B. H. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

The Fish "Ruffins."--In Spenser's Faerie Queene we read (book iv.
canto 11.), among the river guests that attended the nuptials of Thames
and Medway came "Yar, soft washing Norwitch walls;" and farther on, that
he brought with him a present of fish for the banquet called ruffins,
"whose like none else could show." Was this description of fish peculiar
to the Yare? and is there any record of its having been esteemed a
delicacy in Elizabeth's reign? In the Faerie Queene, book
    I. canto iv., Spenser speaks of

    "His ruffin raiment all was stain'd with blood
    Which he had spilt, and all to rags yrent."

    To these lines Mr. Todd has added a note, which gives a clue to
    the meaning of the word. He says, "Mr. Church here observes,
    that ruffin is reddish, from the Latin rufus." I suspect,
    however, that the poet did not intend to specify the colour of
    the dress, but rather to give a very characteristical expression
    even to the raiment of Wrath. Ruffin, so spelt, denoted a
    swashbuckler, or, as we should say, a bully: see Minsheu's
    Guide into Tongues. Besides, I find in My Ladies'
    Looking-Glasse, by Barnabe Rich, 4to. 1616, p. 21., a passage
    which may serve to strengthen my application of ruffin, in
    this sense, to garment: "The yong woman, that as well in her
    behaviour, as in the manner of her apparell, is most ruffian
    like, is accounted the most gallant wench." Now, it appears,
    that the ruff, or pope, is not only, as Walton says, "a
    greedy biter," but is extremely voracious in its disposition,
    and will devour a minnow nearly as big as itself. Its average
    length is from six to seven inches.]

Origin of the Word Etiquette.--What is the original meaning of the word etiquette? and how
did it acquire that secondary meaning which it bears in English?

S. C. G.

    [Etiquette, from the Fr. étiquette, Sp. etiqueta, a ticket;
    delivered not only, as Cotgrave says, for the benefit and
    advantage of him that receives it, but also entitling to place,
    to rank; and thus applied to the ceremonious observance of rank
    or place; to ceremony. Webster adds, "From the original sense of
    the word, it may be inferred that it was formerly the custom to
    deliver cards containing orders for regulating ceremonies on
    public occasions."]

Henri Quatre.--What was the title of Henry IV. (of Navarre) to the crown of France? or in what
way was he related to his predecessor? If any {107} one would be kind enough to answer these
he would greatly oblige.

W. W. H.

    [Our correspondent will find his Query briefly and satisfactorily
    answered by Hénault, in his Abrégé de l'Histoire de France, p.
    476. His words are: "Henri IV. roi de Navarre, né à Pau, le 13
    Décembre, 1553, et ayant droit à la couronne, comme descendant de
    Robert, Comte de Clermont, qui étoit fils de St. Louis, et qui
    avoit épousé l'héritière de Bourbon, y parvient en 1589." The
    lineal descent of Henri from this Count Robert may be seen in
    L'Art de vérifier les Dates, vol. vi. p. 209., in a table
    entitled "Généalogie des Valois et des Bourbon; St. Louis IX.,
    Roi de France."]

"He that complies against his will," &c.; and "To kick the bucket."--Oblige T. C. by giving
the correct reading of the familiar couplet, which he apprehends is loosely quoted when expressed--

  "Convince a man against his will," &c.

or,

  "Persuade a man against his will," &c.

Also by stating the name of the author.

Likewise by giving the origin of the phrase "To kick the bucket," as applied to the death of
a person.

    [The desired quotation is from Butler's Hudibras, part III.
    canto iii. l. 547-8.:

    "He that complies against his will,
    Is of his own opinion still."

    As to the origin of the phrase "To kick the bucket," the
    tradition among the slang fraternity is, that "One Bolsover
    having hung himself to a beam while standing on the bottom of a
    pail, or bucket, kicked the vessel away in order to pry into
    futurity, and it was all UP with him from that moment--Finis!"
    Our Querist will find a very humorous illustration of its use
    (too long to quote) in an article on "Anglo-German Dictionaries,"
    contributed by De Quincy to the London Magazine for April,
    1823, p. 442.]

St. Nicholas Cole Abbey.--There is a church in the city of London called St. Nicholas Cole
Abbey: what is the origin of the name or derivation?

ELLFIN AP GWYDDNO.

    [This Query seems to have baffled old Stowe. He says, "Towards
    the west end of Knight Rider Street is the parish church of St.
    Nicolas Cold Abby, a comely church, somewhat ancient, as
    appeareth by the ways raised thereabout; so that men are forced
    to descend into the body of the church. It hath been called of
    many Golden Abby, of some Gold (or Cold) Bey, and so
    hath the most ancient writing. But I could never learn the cause
    why it should be so called, and therefore I will let it pass.
    Perhaps as standing in a cold place, as Cold Harbour, and
    such like." For communications on the much-disputed etymology of
    COLD HARBOUR, see "N. & Q.," Vol. i., p. 60.; Vol. ii., pp. 159.
    340.; and Vol. vi., p. 455.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

TRENCH ON PROVERBS.

(Vol. viii., pp. 387. 519. 641.)

The courteous spirit which generally distinguishes the communications of your correspondents,
renders the "N. & Q." the most agreeable magazine, or, as you have it, "medium of inter-communication
for literary men," &c. I was so much pleased with the general animus which characterised the
strictures on my proposed translation of Ps. cxxvii. 2., that I was almost disposed to cede
to my critics, from sheer good-will towards them. But the elder D'Israeli speaks of such a
thing "as an affair of literary conscience," which consideration prescribes my yielding in
the present instance; but I trust that our motto will always be, "May our difference of opinion
never alter our inter-communications!"

I must however, at the outset, qualify an expression I made use of, which seems to have incurred
the censure of all your four correspondents on the subject; I mean the sentence, "The translation
of the authorised version of that sacred affirmation is unintelligible." It seems to be perfectly
intelligible to MESSRS. BUCKTON, JEBB, WALTER, and S. D. I qualify, therefore, the assertion.
I mean to say, that the translation of the authorised version of that sacred affirmation was,
and is, considered unintelligible to many intelligent biblical critics and expositors; amongst
whom I may name Luther, Mendelsohn, Hengstenberg, Zunz, and many others whose names will transpire
in the sequel.

Having made that concession, I may now proceed with the replying to my Querists, or rather
Critics. MR. BUCKTON is entitled to my first consideration, not only because you placed him
at the head of the department of that question, but also because of the peculiar mode in which
he treated the subject. My replies shall be seriatim.

1. Luther was not the first who translated ¤ken iten liydido sheinah¤ "Denn seinen Freunden
gibt er es schlafend." A far greater Hebraist than Luther, who flourished about two hundred
years before the great German Reformer came into note, put the same construction on that sacred
affirmation. Rabbi Abraham Hacohen of Zante, who paraphrased the whole Hebrew Psalter into
modern metrical Hebrew verse (which, according to a P.S., was completed in 1326), interprets
the sentence in question thus:

  ¤ki ken yiten el teref
  l'yidido ushnato meenehu lo taref¤

  "For surely God shall give food
  To His beloved, and his sleep shall not be withheld from him."

2. It is more than problematical whether the eminent translator, Mendelsohn, was influenced
by {108} Luther's error (?), or by his own superior knowledge of the sacred tongue.

3. I do not think that the phrase, "the proper Jewish notion of gain," was either called for
or relevant to the subject.

4. The reign of James I. was by no means as distinguished for Hebrew scholarship as were the
immediate previous reigns. Indeed it would appear that the knowledge of the sacred languages
was at a very low ebb in this country during the agitating period of the Reformation, so much
so that even the unaccountable Henry VIII. was forced to exclaim, "Vehementer dolere nostratium
Theologorum sortem sanctissime linguæ scientia carentium, et linguarum doctrinam fuisse intermissam."
(Hody, p. 466.)

When Coverdale made his version of the Bible he was not only aided by Tindale, but also by
the celebrated Hebrew, of the Hebrews, Emanuel Tremellius, who was then professor of the sacred
tongue in the University of Cambridge, where that English Reformer was educated; and Coverdale
translated the latter part of Ps. cxxvii. 2. as follows: "For look, to whom it pleaseth Him,
He giveth it in sleep."

When the translation was revised, during the reign of James I., the most accomplished Anglo-Hebraist
was, by some caprice of jealousy, forced to leave this country; I mean Hugh Broughton. He communicated
many renderings to the revisers, some of which they thoughtlessly rejected, and others, to
use Broughton's own phrase, "they thrust into the margin." A perusal of Broughton's works[6]
gives one an accurate notion of the proceedings of the revisers of the previous versions.

5. Coverdale's translation is not "ungrammatical" as far as the Hebrew language is concerned,
notwithstanding that it was rejected in the reign of James I. ¤lechem¤, "bread," is evidently
the accusative noun to the transitive verb ¤yiten¤, "He shall give." Nor is it "false," for
the same noun, ¤lechem¤, "bread," is no doubt the antecedent to which the word it refers.

6. Mendelsohn does not omit the it in his Hebrew comment; and I am therefore unwarrantably
charged with supplying it "unauthorisedly." I should like to see MR. BUCKTON's translation
of that comment. If any doubt remained upon MR. B.'s mind as to the intended meaning of the
word ¤yitenhu¤ used by Mendelsohn, his German version might have removed such a doubt, as the
little word es, "it," indicates pretty clearly what Mendelsohn meant by ¤yitenhu¤. So that,
instead of proving Mendelsohn "at variance with himself," he is proved most satisfactorily
to have been in perfect harmony with himself.

7. Mendelsohn does not omit the important word ¤ken¤; and if MR. B. will refer once more to
his copy of Mendelsohn (we are both using the same edition), he will find two different interpretations
proposed for the word ¤ken¤, viz. thus and rightly. I myself prefer the latter rendering. The
word occurs about twenty times in the Hebrew Bible, and in the great majority of instances
rightly or certainly is the only correct rendering. Both Mendelsohn and Zunz omit to translate
it in their German versions, simply because the sentence is more idiomatic, in the German language,
without it than with it.

8. I perfectly agree with MR. B. "that no version has yet had so large an amount of learning
bestowed on it as the English one." But MR. B. will candidly acknowledge that the largest amount
was bestowed on it since the revision of the authorised version closed. Lowth, Newcombe, Horne,
Horsley, Lee, &c. wrote since, and they boldly called in question many of the renderings in
the authorised version.

Let me not be mistaken; I do most sincerely consider our version superior to all others, but
it is not for this reason faultless.

In reply to MR. JEBB's temperate strictures, I would most respectively submit--

1. That considerable examination leads me to take just the reverse view to that of Burkius,
that ¤sheinah¤ cannot be looked upon as antithetical to surgere, sedere, dolorum. With all
my searchings I failed to discover an analogous antithesis. I shall be truly thankful to MR.
JEBB for a case in point. Moreover, Psalms iii. and iv., to which Dr. French and Mr. Skinner
refer, prove to my mind that not sleep is the gift, but sustenance and other blessings bestowed
upon the Psalmist whilst asleep. I cannot help observing that due reflection makes me look
upon the expression, "So He {109} giveth His beloved sleep," as an extraordinary anticlimax.

2. MR. JEBB challenges the showing strictly analogous instances of ellipses. He acknowledges
that there are very numerous ellipses even in the Songs of Degrees themselves, but they are
of a very different nature. I might fill the whole of this Number with examples, which the
most scrupulous critic would be obliged to acknowledge as being strictly analogous to the passage
under review; but such a thing you would not allow. Two instances, however, you will not object
to; they will prove a host for MR. JEBB's purpose, inasmuch as one has the very word ¤shena¤
elliptically, and the other the transitive verb ¤yitein¤, minus an accusative noun. Would MESSRS.
BUCKTON, JEBB, WALTER, and S. D. kindly translate, for the benefit of those who are interested
in the question, the following two passages?

  ¤z'ram'tam, sheinah yih'yu; baboker, kechatzir yachalof¤

  Psalm xc. 5.

  ¤yiten lifanav goyim um'lachim yard
  yiten ke-afar charbo, kikash needaf kashto¤

  Isaiah xli. 2.

The REV. HENRY WALTER will see that some of his observations have been anticipated and already
replied to. It remains, however, for me to assure him that I never dreamt that any one would
suppose that I considered ¤sheinah¤ anything else but a noun, minus the ¤bet¤ preposition.
The reason why I translated the word "whilst he [the beloved] is asleep," was because I thought
the expression more idiomatic.

S. D. attempts to prove nothing; I am exempt therefore from disproving anything as far as he
is concerned.

Before I take leave of this lengthy and somewhat elaborate disquisition, let me give my explanation
of the scope of the Psalm in dispute, which, I venture to imagine, will commend itself, even
to those who differ from me, as the most natural.

This Psalm, as well as the other thirteen entitled "A Song of Degrees," was composed for the
singing on the road by those Israelites who went up to Jerusalem to keep the three grand festivals,
to beguile their tedious journey, and also to soothe the dejected spirits of those who felt
disheartened at having left their homes, their farms, and families without guardians. Ps. cxxvii.
is of a soothing character, composed probably by Solomon.

In the first two verses God's watchfulness and care over His beloved are held up to the view
of the pilgrims, who are impressed with the truth that no one, "by taking thought, can add
one cubit to his stature." The best exposition which I can give of those two verses I have
learned from our Saviour's "Sermon on the Mount" (Matt. vi. 25-33.). The third and following
verses, as well as the next Psalm, are exegetical or illustrative. To whom do you attribute
the gift of children? Is it not admitted on all hands to be "an heritage of the Lord?" No one
can procure that blessing by personal anxiety and care: God alone can confer the gift. Well,
then, the same God who gives you the heritage of children will also grant you all other blessings
which are good for you, provided you act the part of "His beloved," and depend upon Him without
wavering.

The above is a hasty, but I trust an intelligible, view of the scope of the Psalm.

MOSES MARGOLIOUTH

Wybunbury, Nantwich.

[Footnote 6: Lightfoot, who edited Broughton's works in 1662, entitled them as follows:--"The
Works of the great Albionen Divine, renowned in many Nations for rare Skill in Salem's and
Athens' Tongues, and familiar acquaintance with all Rabbinical Learning," &c.

Ben Jonson has managed to introduce Broughton into some of his plays. In his Volpone, when
the "Fox" delivers a medical lecture, to the great amusement of Politic and Peregrine, the
former remarks,

  "Is not his language rare?"

To which the latter replies,

                  "But Alchemy,
  I never heard the like, or Broughton's books."

In the Alchemist, "Face" is made thus to speak of a female companion:

  "Y' are very right, Sir, she is a most rare scholar,
  And is gone mad with studying Broughton's works;
  If you but name a word touching the Hebrew,
  She falls into her fit, and will discourse
  So learnedly of genealogies,
  As you would run mad too to hear her, Sir."

(See also The History of the Jews in Great Britain, vol. i. pp. 305, &c.)]

       *       *       *       *       *

INSCRIPTIONS ON BELLS.

(Vol. viii., p. 448.)

The inscription on one of the bells of Great Milton Church, Oxon. (as given by MR. SIMPSON
in "N. & Q."), has a better and rhyming form occasionally.

In Meivod Church, Montgomeryshire, a bell (the "great" bell, I think) has the inscription--

  "I to the church the living call,
  And to the grave do summon all."

The same also is found on the great bell of the interesting church (formerly cathedral) of
Llanbadarn Fawr, Cardiganshire.

E. DYER GREEN.

Nantcribba Hall.

I beg to forward the following inscription on one of the bells in the tower of St. Nicholas
Church, Sidmouth. I have not met with it elsewhere; and you may, perhaps, consider it worthy
of being added to those given by CUTHBERT BEDE and J. L. SISSON:

  "Est michi collatum
  Ihc istud nomen amatum."

There is no date, but the characters may indicate the commencement of the fifteenth century
as the period when the bell was cast.

G. J. R. GORDON.

At Lapley in Staffordshire:

  "I will sound and resound to thee, O Lord,
   To call thy people to thy word."

G. E. T. S. R. N.

Pray add the following savoury inscriptions to your next list of bell-mottoes. The first disgraces
the belfry of St. Paul's, Bedford; the second, that, of St. Mary's, Islington:

  "At proper times my voice I'll raise,
  And sound to my subscribers' praise!"

  "At proper times our voices we will raise,
  In sounding to our benefactors' praise!"

The similarity between these two inscriptions favours the supposition that the ancient {110}
bell-founders, like some modern enterprising firms, kept a poet on the establishment, e.g.

  "Thine incomparable oil, Macassar!"

J. YEOWELL.

A friend informs me, that on a bell in Durham Cathedral these lines occur:

  "To call the folk to Church in time,
                            I chime.
  When mirth and pleasure's on the wing,
                            I ring.
  And when the body leaves the soul,
                            I toll."

J. L. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARMS OF GENEVA.

(Vol. viii., p. 563.)

Your correspondent who desires the blazon of the arms of the "town of Geneva," had better have
specified to which of the two bearings assigned to that name he refers.

One of these, which I saw on the official seal affixed to the passport of a friend of mine
lately returned from that place, is an instance of the obsolete practice of dimidiation; and
is the more singular, because only the dexter one of the shields thus impaled undergoes curtailment.

The correct blazon, I believe, would be: Or, an eagle double-headed, displayed sable, dimidiated,
and impaling gu. a key in pale argent, the wards in chief, and turned to the sinister; the
shield surmounted with a marquis' coronet.

The blazon of the sinister half I owe to Edmondson, who seems, however, not at all to have
understood the dexter, and gives a clumsy description of it little worth transcribing. He,
and the Dictionnaire de Blazon, assign these arms to the Republic of Geneva.

The other bearing would, in English, be blazoned, Checquy of nine pieces, or and azure: and
in French, Cinq points d'or, équipollés à quatre d'azur. This is assigned by Nisbett to the
Seigneurie of Geneva, and is quartered by the King of Sardinia in token of the claims over
the Genevese town and territory, which, as Duke of Savoy, he has never resigned.

With regard to the former shield, I may just remark, that the dimidiated coat is merely that
of the German empire. How or why Geneva obtained it, I should be very glad to be informed;
since it appears to appertain to the present independent Republic, and not to the former seignorial
territory.

Let me also add, that the plate in the Dictionnaire gives the field of this half as argent.
Mr. Willement, in his Regal Heraldry, under the arms of Richard II.'s consort, also thus describes
and represents the imperial field; and Nisbett alludes to it as such in one place, though in
his formal blazon he gives it as or.

Nothing, in an heraldic point of view, would be more interesting than a "Regal Heraldry of
Europe," with a commentary explaining the historical origin and combinations of the various
bearings. Should this small contribution towards such a compilation tend to call the attention
of any able antiquary to the general subject, or to elicit information upon this particular
question, the writer who now offers so insignificant an item would feel peculiarly gratified.

L. C. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Multiplying Negatives.--In reply to M. N. S. (Vol. ix., p. 83.) I would suggest the following
mode of multiplying negatives on glass, which I have every reason to believe would be perfectly
successful:--First, varnish the negative to be copied by means of DR. DIAMOND'S solution of
amber in chloroform; then attach to each angle, with any convenient varnish, a small piece
of writing-paper. Prepare a similar plate of glass with collodion, and drain off all superfluous
nitrate of silver, by standing it for a minute or so on edge upon a piece of blotting-paper.
Lay it flat upon a board, collodion side upwards, and the negative prepared above upon it,
collodion side downwards. Expose the whole to daylight for a single second, or to gas-light
for about a minute, and develope as usual. The result will be a transmitted positive, but with
reversed sides; and from this, when varnished and treated as the original negative, any number
of negatives similar to the first may be produced.

The paper at the angles is to prevent the absolute contact and consequent injury by the solution
of nitrate of silver; and, for the same reason, it is advisable not to attempt to print until
the primary negative is varnished, as, with all one's care, sometimes the nitrate will come
in contact and produce spots, if the varnishing has been omitted. Should the negative become
moistened, it should be at once washed with a gentle stream of water and dried.

I have repeatedly performed the operation above described so far as the production of the positive,
and so perfect is the impression that I see no reason why the second negative should be at
all distinguishable from the original.

I am, indeed, at present engaged upon a similar attempt; but there are several other difficulties
in my way: I, however, entertain no doubts of perfect success.

GEO. SHADBOLT.

Towgood's Paper.--A. B. (Vol. ix., p. 83.) can purchase Towgood's paper of Mr. Sandford, who
frequently advertises in "N. & Q." With regard to his other Query, I think there can be no
doubt of his being at liberty to publish a photographic copy of a portrait, Mr. Fox Talbot
having reserved only the right to paper copies of a photographic portrait. Collodion portraits
are not patent, but the paper proofs from collodion negatives are.

GEO. SHADBOLT.

