There are several records which would easily justify it. Besides the flight across the Atlantic
by the R-34 and the four-day trip of the German airship from Bulgaria to Africa and back, a
British airship during the war stayed up for 50 hours and 55 minutes, and another, just after
the armistice, stayed up for 61 hours. An American naval dirigible a short time after the armistice
made a flight from New York to Key West, 1,200 miles, at 40 miles an hour, for 29-1/2 hours,
with one stop at Hampton Roads. As an example of some of the difficulties of airship travel,
this landing was possible only after the ship had circled the town and dropped a message asking
the people to go to a large field near by and catch the dirigible drag-net when it approached
the ground. Even at that, however, the time of less than a day and a quarter for what is usually
a very arduous train trip from New York down the coast to Florida gives some indication of
the possibilities of this method of travel when properly developed.

Practically all the new airships contemplated look to a much greater speed than the pre-war
speed of about 40 miles an hour. It is not at all uncertain that they will not run up as high
as 100 miles, though at the present time that figure is extreme. But granted that they no more
than double the pre-war speed and reach the actual figure contemplated of about 75 miles an
hour, they still would triple the best passenger-steamer speed, which would make them a matter
of the utmost importance in all long ocean voyages.

Just how the balance will be struck between airplanes and airships is a big question. It is
interesting to note, however, that the supporters of the airship have worked out a general
theory that the lighter-than-air vessel with its already demonstrated cruising and weight-carrying
capacity will be used for all long routes, and for that almost exclusively, while the heavier-than-air
vessel, with its great speed and facility for maneuvering, will be used for local flights.
This, in their viewpoint, would mean that the world would be girded by great lanes of airships,
fed from a few main centers by swift-scurrying airplanes radiating in from every direction.

IX

THE CALL OF THE SKIES

The day of the air has undoubtedly come. The old order of the world has been entirely changed.
A new life is breaking in over the near horizon. Almost in a moment the span of the world has
shrunk to a quarter of its former size, so that where before we thought in terms of countries
very soon we must think in terms of continents. The world is shortly to be linked up as it
never has been before, till the great continents are brought as near as were the near-by nations
of the past years.

Any one who doubts the future of aviation should realize the helplessness of the science after
the armistice because of the complete lack of international laws to make possible its application
in Europe, where it was most highly developed. With men and machines ready, they had to hold
to the ground largely because there was in force no treaties assuring them the right to cross
frontiers. The broad plans for international routes were held up because aviation itself was
so big in its expanse that it could not meet its just fulfilment within national lines.

As a result a new law must be written. The law of the air will be one of the most intricate
and the most fascinating in the world. It presents problems never before presented and covers
a scope paralleled only by the laws of the sea. Very fortunately, however, aerial international
law may be written at the very start of the science by a common international standard and
practice, thus obviating the greatest part of the divergences which long years of habit have
grafted into the maritime laws of the various nations. The slate is clean so that uniformity
may be assured in a law which is soon to come into the most vital touch with the daily lives
of the nations.

Who, for instance, owns the air above the various nations? Obviously the individual landowner
has rights, especially as to freedom from damage. The nation also has rights, especially for
its protection and for police work. How high, however, does this jurisdiction go? Some assert
that a maximum altitude should be set, say five thousand feet, above which the air would be
as free as the seas; others that each nation must have unqualified control to the limit of
the ether.

Then comes the question of passports, customs, registration, safety precautions, and damages.
As already shown, the man on the ground is helpless against the airplane which chooses to defy
him. People and goods can cross national lines by the air without passports or customs. There
will be no main ports of entry as in sea or train commerce, and it is too much to think that
any nation can patrol its whole aerial frontier in all its various air strata. Undesirable
immigrants or small precious freight can be smuggled in with the greatest ease through the
route of the air.

Obviously the most elaborate international rules are necessary. Planes must have some method
of international registration and license, just as in a more limited sense ships on the seas
have what amounts to an international status. Landing-fields must be established and open to
foreign planes, each nation providing some kind of reciprocal landing rights to other nations.
Arrangements must be made so that if a monkey-wrench drops out of a plane a mile or two up
in the air proper damages can be collected. For such things there is to-day but little precedent
in law.

This but sketches the problems. It shows, however, how closely this new science will bind the
world together and obliterate national lines and nationalistic feelings. As the sea has been
the great civilizer of the past, so the air will be the great civilizer of the future. Through
it men will be brought most intimately in touch with one another and forced to learn to live
together as they have not been forced to live together before. The artificial barriers that
have stood so firm between nations in the past are now swept away and a great common medium
of intercommunication opened.

Let it not be understood that all this will take place overnight. Far from it, for the experience
of the war has taught only too well that the organization of an air force takes time and patience.
Up to date the essential fact is that the science, the value, and the possibilities of flight
have been proved in a thousand different ways. Vistas of travel and experience have been opened
up which but a few months ago would have seemed fanciful. Everywhere men are dreaming dreams
of the future which challenge one's deepest imagination. Already Caproni, the great Italian
inventor, has signed a contract to carry mails from Genoa to Rio Janeiro.

Now comes news of an airplane with room for ninety-two passengers. Engine power and wing space
have gone on increasing in a dazzling way till one is almost afraid to guess what the future
may hold. But, omitting all prophecy, the actual accomplishments to date are so stupendous
that there is no need to speculate as to the future. If all technical development were to stop
just where it stands, the factories and workshops of the world could well be occupied for years
in turning out the machines necessary for the work awaiting them. Scientific development has
gone so infinitely far ahead of actual production that as yet aviation is not being put to
a fraction of its use.

Even more serious, however, is the general public failure to realize the gift which is within
their reach. Flying was first a circus stunt and later a war wonder. The solid practical accomplishments
have been lost sight of in the weird or the spectacular. People who marveled when a British
plane climbed up nearly six miles into the air, or 30,000 feet, where its engine refused to
run and its observer fainted, failed generally to analyze what the invasion of this new element
would mean in the future of mankind.

What is now needed is a big, broad imagination to seize hold of this new thing and galvanize
it into actual every-day use. There are many skeptics, of course, many who point out, for instance,
that the element of cost is prohibitive. This is both fallacious in reasoning and untrue in
fact. A modern two-seated airplane, even to-day, costs not over $5,000, or about the price
of a good automobile. Very soon, with manufacturing costs standardized and the elements of
newness worn off, this price will fall as sharply as it has already fallen during the war.

But what, after all, is cost in comparison with time? Modern civilization will pay dearly for
any invention which will increase ever so little its hours of effectiveness. The great German
liners before the war lavished money without stint to save a day or two in crossing the Atlantic.
The limited express trains between New York, Boston, Washington, and Chicago have for years
made money by carrying busy men a few hours more quickly to their destination. What will not
be paid if these times of travel can be reduced practically to half?

The element of danger has been reduced to a minimum and will be still more reduced as emphasis
is laid on safety rather than wartime agility. Many men, of course, will meet their death in
the air, just as in the early days many men met their death in ships and in railroad trains,
but this will not be a deterrent if the goal is worth attaining. There will be accidents in
learning to fly, there will be accidents of foolhardiness and of collision or in landing, but
they will decrease to the vanishing-point as experience grows. Already the air routes which
have been established have a high record of success and freedom from fatalities.

The great need of aviation to-day is faith--faith among the people, among the manufacturers,
among the men who will give it its being. Its success is as inevitable as that day follows
night, but the question of when that success is attained, now or generations from now, is dependent
on the vision which men put into it. If they are apathetic and unreasonable, if they chafe
at details or expect too much, it will be held back. If, on the other hand, they go to meet
it with confidence, with coolness, and with a realization both of its difficulties and its
potentialities, its success will be immediate.

The task is one of the greatest, the most vital, and the most promising which mankind has ever
faced. With the general theories proved and demonstrated, the great crisis of invention has
passed, and the slow, unspectacular process of development and application has set in. Now
has come the time for serious, sober thought, for careful, analytical planning, for vision
combined with hopefulness. It is well in these early days, when flight is with the general
public a very special and occasional event, to remember what has happened since Watt developed
the steam-engine only a few generations ago, when Columbus set the first ship westward, or
when America's first train ran over its rough tracks near the Quincy quarries.

The development of aviation will be world-wide and will include all sorts and races of men.
The nations all start pretty much abreast. Those which developed war air services have an advantage
in material and experience, but this is a matter only for the moment. The main lines of progress
are now pretty widely known and the field is wide open to those who have the imagination to
enter it. There is practically no handicap at this early stage which cannot be overcome with ease.

