"When I have ascertained their route," he said, "it will be time enough to talk of their identity."

In this way we went for a mile or so, the trail leading us onward, frank and straight, to the
top of a somewhat higher hill, where it suddenly expired off the earth. No breath vanishes
cleaner from glass, and it brought us to a dead halt. We retraced the tracks to make sure we
had not lost them before, but there was no mistake, and again we halted dead at the vanishing-point.
Here were signs that something out of the common had happened. Men's feet and horseshoe prints,
aimless and superimposed, marked a trodden frame of ground, inside which was nothing, and beyond
which nothing lay but those faint tracks of wandering cattle and horses that scatter everywhere
in this country. Not one defined series, not even a single shod horse, had gone over this hill,
and we spent some minutes vainly scouring in circles wider and wider. Often I returned to stare
at the trodden, imperturbable frame of ground, and caught myself inspecting first the upper
air, and next the earth, and speculating if the hill were hollow; and mystery began to film
over the hitherto sharp figures of black curly and yellow, while the lonely country around
grew so unpleasant to my nerves that I was glad when Pidcock decided that he must give up for
to-day. We found the little group of people beginning to disperse at the ambulance.

"Fooled yer ag'in, did they?" said the old man. "Played the blanket trick on yer, I expect.
Guess yer gold's got pretty far by now." With this parting, and propped upon his stick, he
went as he had come. Not even at any time of his youth, I think, could he have been companionable,
and old age had certainly filled him with the impartial malevolence of the devil. I rejoice
to say that he presided at none of our further misadventures.

Short twenty-eight thousand dollars and two mules, we set out anew, the Major, the cook, and
I, along the Thomas road, with the sun drawing closer down upon the long steel saw that the
peaks to our westward made. The site of my shock lay behind me--I knew now well enough that
it had been a shock, and that for a long while to come I should be able to feel the earth spatter
from Mr. Adams's bullet against my ear and sleeve whenever I might choose to conjure that moment
up again--and the present comfort in feeling my distance from that stone in the road increase
continually put me in more cheerful spirits. With the quick rolling of the wheels many subjects
for talk came into my mind, and had I been seated on the box beside the cook we should have
found much in common. Ever since her real tenderness to those wounded men I had wished to ask
the poor old creature how she came in this weary country, so far from the pleasant fields of
cotton and home. Her hair was gray, and she had seen much, else she had never been so kind
and skilful at bandaging. And I am quite sure that somewhere in the chambers of her incoherent
mind and simple heart abided the sweet ancient fear of God and love of her fellow-men--virtues
I had met but little in Arizona.

"De hole family, scusin' two," she was saying, "dey bust loose and tuck to de woods." And then
she moralized upon the two who stayed behind and were shot. "But de Gennul he 'low dat wuz
mighty pore reasonin'."

I should have been glad to exchange views with her, for Major Pidcock was dull company. This
prudent officer was not growing distant from his disaster, and as night began to come, and
we neared Thomas, I suppose the thought that our ambulance was driving him perhaps to a court-martial
was enough to submerge the man in gloom. To me and my news about the robbers he was a little
more considerate, although he still made nothing of the fact that some of them lived in the
Gila Valley, and were of the patriarchal tribe of Meakum.

"Scoundrels like that," he muttered, lugubriously, "know every trail in the country, and belong
nowhere. Mexico is not a long ride from here. They can get a steamer at Guaymas and take their
choice of ports down to Valparaiso. Yes, they'll probably spend that money in South America.
Oh, confound that woman!"

For the now entirely cheerful negress was singing:

     "'Dar's de gal, dar's my Susanna.
     How by gum you know?
     Know her by de red bandanna,
     An' de shoestring hangin' on de flo'--
     Dad blam her!--
     An' de shoestring hangin'--'

"Goodness grashus! what you gwineter do?"

At this sudden cry and the stopping of the ambulance I thought more people were come for our
gold, and my spirit resigned itself. Sit still was all I should do now, and look for the bright
day when I should leave Arizona forever. But it was only Mrs. Sproud. I had clean forgotten
her, and did not at once take in to what an important turn the affairs of some of us had come.
She stepped out of the darkness, and put her hand on the door of the ambulance.

"I suppose you're the Paymaster?" Her voice was soft and easy, but had an ample volume. As
Pidcock was replying with some dignity that she was correct, she caught sight of me. "Who is
this man?" she interrupted him.

"My clerk," said Pidcock; and this is the promptest thing I can remember of the Major, always
excepting his conduct when the firing began on the hill. "You're asking a good many questions,
madam," he added.

"I want to know who I'm talking to," said she, quietly. "I think I've seen property of yours
this evening."

"You had better get in, madam; better get in."

"This is the Paymaster's team from Fort Grant?" said Mrs. Sproud to the driver.

"Yes, yes, madam. Major Pidcock--I am Major Pidcock, Paymaster to the United States army in
the Department of Colorado. I suppose I understand you."

"Seven canvas sacks," said Mrs. Sproud, standing in the road.

"Get in, madam. You can't tell who may be within hearing. You will find it to your advantage
to keep nothing--"

Mrs. Sproud laughed luxuriously, and I began to discern why black curly might at times have
been loath to face her.

"I merely meant, madam--I desired to make it clear that--a--"

"I think I know what you meant. But I have no call to fear the law. It will save you trouble
to believe that before we go any further."

"Certainly, madam. Quite right." The man was sweating. What with court-martial and Mrs. Sproud,
his withers were wrung. "You are entirely sure, of course, madam--"

"I am entirely sure I know what I am about. That seems to be more than some do that are interested
in this gold--the folks, for instance, that have hid it in my hay-stack."

"Hay-stack! Then they're not gone to Mexico!"

"Mexico, sir? They live right here in this valley. Now I'll get in, and when I ask you, you
will please to set me down." She seated herself opposite us and struck a match. "Now we know
what we all look like," said she, holding the light up, massive and handsome. "This young man
is the clerk, and we needn't mind him. I have done nothing to fear the law, but what I am doing
now will make me a traveller again. I have no friends here. I was acquainted with a young man."
She spoke in the serenest tone, but let fall the match more quickly than its burning made needful.
"He was welcome in my home. He let them cook this up in my house and never told me. I live
a good ways out on the road, and it was a safe place, but I didn't think why so many met him,
and why they sat around my stable. Once in a while this week they've been joking about winning
the soldiers' pay--they often win that--but I thought it was just cowboy games, till I heard
horses coming quick at sundown this afternoon, and I hid. Will hunted around and said--and
said I was on the stage coming from Solomonsville, and so they had half an hour yet. He thought
so. And, you see, nobody lives in the cabin but--but me." Mrs. Sproud paused a moment here,
and I noticed her breathing. Then she resumed: "So I heard them talk some; and when they all
left, pretty soon, I went to the hay-stack, and it was so. Then the stage came along and I
rode to Thomas."

"You left the gold there!" groaned the wretched Major, and leaned out of the ambulance.

"I'm not caring to touch what's none of mine. Wait, sir, please; I get out here. Here are the
names I'm sure of. Stop the driver, or I'll jump." She put a paper in the Major's hand. "It
is Mrs. Sproud's hay-stack," she added.

"Will you--this will never--can I find you to-morrow?" he said, helplessly, holding the paper
out at her.

"I have told you all I know," said Mrs. Sproud, and was gone at once.

Major Pidcock leaned back for some moments as we drove. Then he began folding his paper with
care. "I have not done with that person," said he, attempting to restore his crippled importance.
"She will find that she must explain herself."

Our wheels whirled in the sand and we came quickly to Thomas, to a crowd of waiting officers
and ladies; and each of us had an audience that night--the cook, I feel sure, while I myself
was of an importance second only to the Major's. But he was at once closeted with the commanding
officer, and I did not learn their counsels, hearing only at breakfast that the first step
was taken. The detail sent out had returned from the hay-stack, bringing gold indeed--one-half
sackful. The other six were gone, and so was Mrs. Sproud. It was useless to surmise, as we,
however, did that whole forenoon, what any of this might mean; but in the afternoon came a
sign. A citizen of the Gila Valley had been paying his many debts at the saloon and through
the neighborhood in gold. In one well known for the past two years to be without a penny it
was the wrong moment to choose for honest affluence, and this citizen was the first arrest.
This further instance of how secure the robbers felt themselves to be outdid anything that
had happened yet, and I marvelled until following events took from me the power of astonishment.
The men named on Mrs. Sproud's paper were fewer than I think fired upon us in the attack, but
every one of them was here in the valley, going about his business. Most were with the same
herd of cattle that I had seen driven by yellow and black curly near the sub-agency, and they
two were there. The solvent debtor, I should say, was not arrested this morning. Plans that
I, of course, had no part in delayed matters, I suppose for the sake of certainty. Black curly
and his friends were watched, and found to be spending no gold yet; and since they did not
show sign of leaving the region, but continued with their cattle, I imagine every effort was
being made to light upon their hidden treasure. But their time came, and soon after it mine.
Stirling, my friend, to whom I had finally gone at Carlos, opened the wire door of his quarters
where I sat one morning, and with a heartless smile introduced me to a gentleman from Tucson.

"You'll have a chance to serve your country," said Stirling.

I was subpoenaed!

"Certainly not!" I said, with indignation. "I'm going East. I don't live here. You have witnesses
enough without me. We all saw the same thing."

"Witnesses never see the same thing," observed the man from Tucson. "It's the government that's
after you. But you'll not have to wait. Our case is first on the list."

"You can take my deposition," I began; but what need to dwell upon this interview? "When I
come to visit you again," I said to Stirling, "let me know." And that pink-faced, gray-haired
captain still shouted heartlessly.

"You're an egotist," said he. "Think of the scrape poor old Pidcock has got himself into."

