It was then sent to the Lords, and went into Committee, when a similar mass of testimony was
again gone through.  But it had been evident, from the opening of the proceedings, that the
fate of the bill had been determined before even a word of the evidence had been heard.  At
that time the committees were open to all peers; and the promoters of the bill found, to their
dismay, many of the lords who were avowed opponents of the measure as landowners, sitting as
judges to decide its fate.  Their principal object seemed to be, to bring the proceedings to
a termination as quickly as possible.  An attempt at negotiation was indeed made in the course
of the proceedings in committee, but failed, and the bill was thrown out.

As the result had been foreseen, measures were taken to neutralise the effect of this decision
as regarded future operations.  Not less than £32,000 had been expended in preliminary and
parliamentary expenses up to this stage; but the promoters determined not to look back, and
forthwith made arrangements for prosecuting the bill in the next session.  Strange to say,
the bill then passed both Houses silently and almost without opposition.  The mystery was afterwards
solved by the appearance of a circular issued by the directors of the company, in which it
was stated, that they had opened “negotiations” with the most influential of their opponents;
that “these measures had been successful to a greater extent than they had ventured to anticipate;
and the most active and formidable had been conciliated.”  An instructive commentary on the
mode by which these noble lords and influential landed proprietors had been “conciliated,”
was the simple fact that the estimate for land was nearly trebled, and that the owners were
paid about £750,000 for what had been originally estimated at £250,000.

The landowners having thus been “conciliated,” the promoters of the measure were permitted
to proceed with the formation of their great highway.  Robert Stephenson was, with the sanction
of his father, appointed sole engineer; and steps were at once taken by him to make the working
survey, to prepare the working drawings, and arrange for the construction of the railway. 
Eighty miles of the road were shortly under contract, having been let within the estimates;
and the works were in satisfactory progress by the beginning of 1834.

The difficulties encountered in their construction were very great; the most formidable of
them originating in the character of the works themselves.  Extensive tunnels had to be driven
through unknown strata, and miles of underground excavation had to be carried out in order
to form a level road from valley to valley, under the intervening ridges. This kind of work
was the newest of all to the contractors of that day. Robert Stephenson’s experience in the
collieries of the North rendered him well fitted to grapple with such difficulties; yet even
he, with all his practical knowledge, could scarcely have foreseen the serious obstacles which
he was called upon to encounter in executing the formidable cuttings, embankments, and tunnels
of the London and Birmingham Railway.  It would be an uninteresting, as it would be a fruitless
task, to attempt to describe the works in detail; but a general outline of their extraordinary
character and extent may not be out of place.

                       [Picture: Rugby to Watford]

The length of railway to be constructed between London and Birmingham was 112½ miles.  The
line crossed a series of low-lying districts separated from each other by considerable ridges
of hills; and it was the object of the engineer to cross the valleys at as high, and the hills
at as low, elevations as possible.  The high ground was therefore cut down and the “stuff”
led into embankments, in some places of great height and extent, so as to form a road upon
as level a plane as was considered practicable for the working of the locomotive engine.  In
some places, the high grounds were passed in open cuttings, whilst in others it was necessary
to bore through them in tunnels with deep cuttings at each end.

The most formidable excavations on the line are those at Tring, Denbigh Hall, and Blisworth.
The Tring cutting is an immense chasm across the great chalk ridge of Ivinghoe.  It is 2½ miles
long, and for ¼ of a mile is 57 feet deep.  A million and a half cubic yards of chalk and earth
were taken out of this cutting by means of horse-runs and deposited in spoil banks; besides
the immense quantity run into the embankment north of the cutting, forming a solid mound nearly
6 miles long and about 30 feet high.  Passing over the Denbigh Hall cutting, and the Wolverton
embankment of 1½ mile in length across the valley of the Ouse, we come to the excavation at
Blisworth, a brief description of which will give the reader an idea of one of the most difficult
kinds of railway work.

                       [Picture: Blisworth Cutting]

The Blisworth Cutting is one of the longest and deepest grooves cut in the solid earth.  It
is 1½ mile long, in some places 65 feet deep, passing through earth, stiff clay, and hard rock.
Not less than a million cubic yards of these materials were dug, quarried, and blasted out
of it.  One-third of the cutting was stone, and beneath the stone lay a thick bed of clay,
under which were found beds of loose shale so full of water that almost constant pumping was
necessary at many points to enable the works to proceed.  For a year and a half the contractor
went on fruitlessly contending with these difficulties, and at length he was compelled to abandon
the adventure.  The engineer then took the works in hand for the Company, and they were vigorously
proceeded with. Steam-engines were set to work to pump out the water; two locomotives were
put on, one at each end of the cutting, to drag away the excavated rock and clay; and 800 men
and boys were employed along the work, in digging, wheeling, and blasting, besides a large
number of horses.  Some idea of the extent of the blasting operations may be formed from the
fact that 25 barrels of gunpowder were used weekly; the total quantity exploded in forming
this one cutting being about 3,000 barrels. Considerable difficulty was experienced in supporting
the bed of rock cut through, which overlaid the clay and shale along each side of the cutting.
It was found necessary to hold it up by strong retaining walls, to prevent the clay bed from
bulging out, and these walls were further supported by a strong invert,—that is, an arch placed
in an inverted position under the road,—thus binding together the walls on both sides. Behind
the retaining walls, a drift or horizontal drain was provided to enable the water to run off,
and occasional openings were left in the walls themselves for the same purpose.  The work was
at length brought to a successful completion, but the extraordinary difficulties encountered
in forming the cutting had the effect of greatly increasing the cost of this portion of the
railway.

