EXPOSITION

OF

THE APOSTLES' CREED

By

THE REV. JAMES DODDS, D.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Though I am an old Doctor of Divinity, to this day I have not
    got beyond the children's learning--the Ten Commandments, the
    Belief, and the Lord's Prayer; and these I understand not so
    well as I should, though I study them daily, praying with my son
    John and my daughter Magdalen.--LUTHER'S Table-Talk.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

EDITORIAL NOTE

PREFATORY NOTE

INTRODUCTION

ARTICLE

1 I BELIEVE IN GOD THE FATHER ALMIGHTY, MAKER OF HEAVEN AND EARTH

    SECTION
        1. I BELIEVE
        2. GOD
        3. THE FATHER
        4. ALMIGHTY
        5. AND IN JESUS CHRIST
        2. JESUS
        3. CHRIST
        4. HIS ONLY SON
        5. OUR LORD

3 WHO WAS CONCEIVED BY THE HOLY GHOST, BORN OF THE VIRGIN MARY

4 SUFFERED UNDER PONTIUS PILATE, WAS CRUCIFIED, DEAD, AND BURIED

    SECTION
        1. SUFFERED UNDER PONTIUS PILATE
        2. WAS CRUCIFIED
        3. DEAD
        4. AND BURIED

5 HE DESCENDED INTO HELL, THE THIRD DAY HE ROSE AGAIN FROM THE DEAD

    SECTION
        1. HE DESCENDED INTO HELL
        2. THE HOLY CATHOLIC CHURCH
        2. THE COMMUNION OF SAINTS

10 THE FORGIVENESS OF SINS

11 THE RESURRECTION OF THE BODY

12 AND THE LIFE EVERLASTING

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX

FOOTNOTES

SOME BOOKS ON THE APOSTLES' CREED OR BEARING UPON ARTICLES THEREOF

       *       *       *       *       *

EDITORIAL NOTE

Dr. Dodds' Exposition of the Apostles' Creed will supply a real need. It contains a careful,
well-informed, and well-balanced statement of the doctrines of the Church which are expressed
or indicated in the Creed, and it will be helpful to many as arranging the passages of Scripture
on which these doctrines rest. Though historical references could have been easily made, the
Editors agree with the author in thinking that to insert them in the discussion of doctrines
would have probably perplexed the readers for whom the book is designed.

February 1896.

       *       *       *       *       *

PREFATORY NOTE

The title and purpose of this Handbook limit its subject matter to an exposition of the doctrines
which have place in the summary of belief termed the Apostles' Creed. It is not meant to cover
the whole field of Christian doctrine.

A history of the Creed has not been attempted. There is much that is interesting in its origin
and growth. It did not come into existence all at once, but was built up from time to time
by the insertion of clauses formulated by Councils or by leading representatives of the Christian
Church. The space available is not sufficient to include a history.

The Handbook being not controversial but expository, references to the heretics and heresies
that gave occasion for the articles which have place in the Creed are few and brief.

JAMES DODDS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE APOSTLES' CREED

INTRODUCTION

While the disciples had Jesus with them, there was no occasion for a formal summary of the
doctrines which His followers were called to accept and to maintain. He was present to resolve
all doubts and settle all difficulties, so that when their faith was assailed or their teaching
impugned they could refer to Him. Then, as now, faith had Him for its object,--with this difference,
that He was visibly at hand to counsel and to direct, while now He is passed into the heavens
and guides His people into all truth, not by personal instruction but by His invisible though
ever present Spirit.

Another reason why Jesus gave His disciples no creed may be found in the fact that His work
was not finished until He had laid down His life, and that no creed could have been satisfactory
which did not cover those great unfulfilled events in His history that lie at the foundation
of the Christian religion.

Jesus did indeed require belief in Himself as a condition on which healing and salvation were
bestowed. Unbelief hindered His work, while faith in His Messianic claims and mission never
failed to secure a rich blessing to those who confessed Him. The faith which He recognised
was not the acceptance and confession of a summary of doctrine such as any of the Creeds now
existing, but a simple statement of belief in Himself as the Son of God and the Messiah. It
was perhaps Paul's reference to the summary of doctrine as a "deposit" to be carefully kept,
that led the early converts to regard it as a private possession--a trust to be hidden in the
heart and covered from unfriendly eyes. The Apostle did not mean that it should be so regarded,
but this interpretation given to his words, or some other cause, led to its being used as a
watchword rather than as an open confession, the consequence of which is that in the writings
of the earliest Christian fathers no statement of doctrines corresponding to a creed is found.

The absence of creeds or of allusions to them in the oldest Christian treatises gives seeming
point to the objection urged by Professor Harnack and others against the Apostles' Creed as
now held and interpreted by the Church, that it is not a correct summary of early Christian
belief. That such objections are not well founded will become apparent as the various articles
of the Creed are considered in the light of Apostolic teaching. The absence of creeds in early
Christian writings is sufficiently accounted for by the care with which the summary was cherished
as a secret trust, to be treasured in the memory but not to be written or otherwise profaned
by publicity.

The word "creed"--derived from the Latin "credo, I believe"--is, in its ecclesiastical sense,
used to denote a summary or concise statement of doctrines formulated and accepted by a church.
Although usually connected with religious belief, it has a wider meaning, and designates the
principles which an individual or an associated body so holds that they become the springs
and guides of conduct. Some sects of Christians reject formal creeds and profess to find the
Scriptures sufficient for all purposes that creeds are meant to serve. The Christian religion
rests on Christ, and the final appeal on any question of doctrine must be to the Scriptures
which testify of Him: but it is found that very different conclusions are often reached by
those who profess to ground their beliefs upon the same passages of the Word of God. Almost
every heresy that has disturbed the unity of the Church has been advocated by men who appealed
to Scripture in confirmation of the doctrines they taught. The true teaching of the Word of
God is gathered from careful and continuous searching of the Scriptures, and there is danger
of fatal error when conclusions are drawn from isolated passages interpreted in accordance
with preconceived opinions. It has been found not only expedient but needful that the Christian
Churches should set forth in creeds and confessions the doctrines which they believe the Scriptures
affirm. They are bound not only to accept Scripture as the rule of faith, but to make known
the sense in which they understand it. As unlearned and unstable men wrest and subvert the
Sacred Writings, it is fitting that those who are learned and not unstable should publish sound
expositions of their contents. In the light of creeds, converts are enabled to test their own
position, and to put to proof the claims of those who profess to be teachers of Christian doctrine.

One of the most widely accepted of these forms is the Apostles' Creed, so called, not because
it was drawn up by, or in the time of, the Apostles--although there is a tradition to the effect
that each of them contributed a clause--but because it is in accordance with the sum of Apostolic
teaching. The history of this Creed is not easily traced. The care with which it was guarded
excluded it from the writings of the early fathers, and it is impossible, therefore, to assign
to their proper dates, with certainty, some of the articles of which it is composed. This,
however, is evident, that it came gradually into existence, clauses being added from time to
time to guard the faithful against false doctrine, or to enable them to defend the orthodox
belief. It appears to have been the general creed of the Christian Church, in a form very similar
to that which it now bears, from the close of the second century.[008] At that time and afterwards
it served not only as a test of Christian doctrine, but was also used by catechists in training
and instructing candidates for admission to the Church.

It is sometimes urged as an objection to this Creed that it is not a sufficiently comprehensive
summary of Christian doctrine. Those who object to it on this ground should consider the purpose
of creeds. They were not meant to cover the whole field of Christian faith, but to fortify
believers against the teaching of heretics. The Apostles' Creed was not intended, and does
not profess, to state all the things that Christians ought to believe. There is no reference
in it to Scripture, to Inspiration, to Prayer, or to the Sacraments. It sets forth in a few
words, distinct and easily remembered, the existence and relations to men of the three Persons
of the Godhead--those facts and truths on which all doctrine and duty rest, and from which
they find development.

It is especially objected that there is no reference in this Creed to the atoning work of the
Lord Jesus Christ. But, though not directly expressed, this doctrine is really and substantially
contained in it. The Creed is the confession of those whose bond of union is common faith in
the Lord Jesus Christ as their Saviour. The articles which treat of Him and of His sufferings
and work are intelligible only to those who believe in the reality and efficacy of the Atonement.

The Creed contains twelve articles, and to each of these, and to every
part of it, the words "I believe" belong. One article relates to God the
Father, six to God the Son, one to God the Holy Ghost, and four to the
Holy Catholic Church and the privileges secured to its members. He descended into hell; the third day He rose again from the
        dead,

    6. From thence He shall come to judge the quick and the dead.

    8. I believe in the Holy Ghost,

    9.

In estimating the value of creeds in the early ages of the Christian Church, it is important
to bear in mind that the converts were almost wholly dependent on oral instruction for their
knowledge of Divine truth. Copies of the Old and New Testaments existed in manuscript only.
These were few in number, and the cost of production placed them beyond the reach of the great
majority. A single copy served for a community or a district in which the Hebrew or the Greek
tongue was understood, but in localities where other languages were in use the living voice
was needed to make revelation known. It is only since the invention of printing and the application
of the steam-engine to the economical and rapid production of books, and since modern linguists
have multiplied the translations of the Bible, that it has become in their own tongues accessible
to believers in all lands, available for private perusal and family reading. It was therefore
a necessity that Christians should possess "a form of sound words," comprehensive enough to
embody the leading doctrines of Christianity, yet brief enough to be easily committed to memory.
Whether spoken in private or in a public assembly, it is the confession of the faith held by
each individual for himself. Each of us has a separate life, and each of us must personally
accept God's message and express his own belief. Religion must influence men as units before
it can benefit them in masses. Faith that saves is a gift of God which every one must receive
for himself. The faith of one is of no avail for another, therefore the Creed begins with the
affirmation "I believe." In repeating it we profess our own faith in what God has revealed
concerning Himself.

"I believe."--The Apostles' Creed is a declaration of things which are most surely believed
among us, and its several parts or articles are founded upon the contents of Scripture, which
is our one rule of faith. It does not begin with the words I think or I know, but with the
statement "I believe." "Belief" is used in various senses, but here it means the assent of
the mind and heart to the doctrines expressed in the Creed. When we repeat the form we declare
that we accept and adopt all the statements which it covers. "With the heart man believeth
unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made."[009]

Faith differs from knowledge. There are some things which we know to be true, and there are
others of which we say we believe them to be true. There are certain truths which are termed
axiomatic. When the terms in which they are expressed are understood, the truth they convey
is at once admitted. We know that two and two make four, we know that two straight lines cannot
enclose a space; but we do not know in the same sense those things which the Creed affirms.
It deals with statements that, for the most part, have never been, and cannot be, tested by
sense, and that cannot be demonstrated by such proof as will compel us to accept them. We believe
them, not because it is impossible to withhold our assent, nor only because nature, history,
and conscience confirm them, but on the ground of testimony. "Faith cometh by hearing, and
hearing by the Word of God."[010] We believe because we are assured on sufficient and competent
authority that these things are so. We know that we live in a material universe, but our knowledge
does not extend to the manner in which the universe came into being. That is a matter of belief.
"Through faith"--not by ocular or logical proof, but on testimony--"we understand that the
worlds were framed by the Word of God."[011]

Faith differs from opinion. When a man believes his mind is made up. By whatever process it
may have been reached, the conclusion commends itself as one that is fixed and irreversible.
Opinion, on the other hand, is held loosely. It is based not on certainty but on probability.
The possibility of error is recognised, and the opinion is readily surrendered when the grounds
on which it was formed are seen to be insufficient or misleading. It is human in so far as
it is based on human experience and observation. It is Divine in so far as it rests upon the
direct revelation of God. Faith in man is continually exercised in business and in all the
departments of life. It is necessary to the very existence of society. Faith in God moves in
another sphere. Its objects are not seen or temporal, and they do not rest for proof upon the
testimony of man. It receives and assents to statements which are made on the authority of
God, who knows all things, who therefore cannot be deceived, and who is truth and therefore
cannot deceive us. On this Divine rock of faith, and not upon her own knowledge, the Christian
Church rests. It must precede everything else. It is the foundation on which all Christian
character and life are built. "He that cometh unto God must believe that he is."[014] "Without
faith it is impossible to please God."[015]

That which Christian faith realises and grasps is expressed in doctrine. Faith is not a separate
and self-dependent grace. Its existence and growth arise from those things which are believed,
and therefore it is necessary to study and understand, as far as we can, the doctrines of the
Christian faith before we can possess or manifest belief. It is important that we should have
a definite knowledge of these doctrines; that we should study them in relation to the Scriptures
upon which they profess to be founded, and that we should be in a position to defend them against
assailants. If there is no God, there is no moral obligation. If there is no Almighty Being
to whom men owe existence, and to whom they must give account, worship is a vain show and systems
of religion are meaningless. Theologians, therefore, from the days of the first Christian apologists
to our own time, have endeavoured to establish by proof the doctrine of the Divine existence.
To those who accept the authority of Scripture the existence of God is a fact which no argument
can overthrow; but as there are many who reject this authority, evidence has been sought elsewhere
than in Scripture to establish the doctrine. The arguments for the Being of God are mainly
threefold, being drawn: (a) from the consciousness of mankind; (b) from the order and design
that are manifest in the universe; and (c) from the written revelation which claims to have
come to men from God Himself.

(a) (Consciousness) There is a wonderful agreement among men as to the existence of a great
invisible Being by whom the world was created and is governed, and who charges Himself with
the control and guidance of its inhabitants and concerns. In a land such as our own, in which
Christianity has held place for many centuries, belief in God, however it may fail to produce
holy living, is almost universal. This belief exercises a strong influence, and has contributed
not a little to the formation of our national character. It is an atmosphere always around
us, sustaining and promoting the healthy life of those even who are the least conscious of
being affected by it. The belief is indelibly impressed upon our laws, our literature, and
even our everyday occupations. It is stamped upon the relations men sustain to one another.
It is this which for one day weekly suspends labour that Christians may have leisure to worship
God and to meditate upon the duties they owe to Him. It is in recognition of this that we see
tall spires pointing heavenward, and churches opening their portals to the inhabitants of crowded
cities and to the dwellers in scattered villages. In Christian lands the consciousness of men
bears testimony to the existence of God, but it is not in such lands only that this consciousness
exists and confirms belief in the Divine. In the earliest times, long before history began
to be written, such a consciousness was prevalent, leading men to faith in and worship of a
Being or Beings infinitely greater than themselves, present with them and presiding, though
invisibly, over their destinies. The study of Comparative Religion has shown how nearly the
primeval inhabitants of lands widely distant from each other were at one in the views they
had come to entertain. Hymns, prayers, precepts, and traditions are found in the sacred books
of the great religions of the East, and archaeologists have deciphered on ancient monuments,
and traced in primitive religious rites, clear evidence of belief in the existence of the Divine.
The valleys of the Nile, of the Euphrates, and of the Tigris have revealed facts for the theologian's
benefit that are almost exhaustless. In the Egyptian Book of the Dead, and in the religious
hymns and the ritual of which they formed part in the sacred literature of Babylonia, there
is proof that four thousand years ago hymns were sung in honour of the gods, and prayers were
offered to propitiate them and secure their favour. But belief in God had place long before
these hymns were sung or these prayers offered. This is shown by the existence of words in
the most ancient hymns, prayers, and inscriptions which could not have been used unless the
ideas which they conveyed had already existed in men's minds. These words--some of which are
preserved in modern tongues--when traced to their roots, help greatly to explain the character
of early religious thought, and prove the existence of a widely diffused belief in the Divine
Being and His government. They serve as confirmation of a belief, which is in harmony with
many facts, that God had revealed Himself to humanity before He furnished the revelation which
has come down to us. Words are not originated by accident. They are expressions of real existences,
and before they found place in hymns or prayers the ideas which they denoted must have been
matters of faith or knowledge to those who used them. Before man is found professing faith
in pagan deities some idea of God must have existed in his mind. Men did not like to retain
God in their knowledge, and so the idea of the Divine became perverted, and in its first simplicity
was lost, and the multitude followed numberless shadows all illusory and vain. Still, there
lingered remnants and traditions of belief in a Divine Creator and Governor which must have
originated in such a primeval revelation as the book of Genesis records. We find there the
statement that God revealed Himself to our first parents by direct intercourse. They heard
and saw and talked with God. They therefore knew of the existence of God by personal perception,
and the ideas they held regarding Him were founded on His own manifestation of Himself.

Closely connected with this consciousness is the sense of responsibility universally prevalent.
There is a law written on the heart of every rational human being, under the guidance of which
he recognises a distinction between good and evil, right and wrong. He possesses a faculty
to which the name of conscience has been given, that convicts him of sin when he violates,
and approves his conduct when he conforms to, its dictates. However much different peoples
and different ages may be at variance in their particular ideas of what is right and what is
wrong, the conception itself has place in all of them. There are certain fundamental notions
as to what is just and what is unjust, what is virtuous and what is vicious, that find universal
or all but universal acceptance. This power of distinguishing between right and wrong constitutes
man a moral being, and separates him by infinite distance from the lower animals. To the beasts
that perish there is nothing right or wrong. They live altogether according to nature, and
have no responsibility. Man stands in a different relation to the Lawgiver who bestowed on
him the faculty of conscience and impressed on his soul a conviction that he will have to give
account for all his actions. The Being to whom he must give account is God.

(b) (Order) Another ground of this belief is the order manifest in the universe. There is a
symmetry that pervades all material things of which we have knowledge. Part is adapted to part;
objects are accurately adjusted to each other; "wheels within wheels" move smoothly; every
portion fits into and works in harmony with every other portion without discord or jarring.
It is unthinkable that these effects should be due to chance or to a cause that is without
intelligence. The perfect arrangement of parts that work together must have been planned by
a living Being of infinite wisdom, knowledge, and power. This Being, whose creatures they are,
must exist. Behind the pervading order there must be personality, purpose, and action. The
fool may say in his heart, "There is no God," but, as nature bears testimony to the existence
of an omniscient and omnipotent Creator, reason calls for another conclusion.

(c) (Scripture) There is a limit to the knowledge of God which the consciousness of man and
the order and design in the universe impart. These serve to establish the truth that God is,
but they do not convey the intimation that He is a moral Governor and the rewarder of them
that diligently seek Him. They declare little of His character, and are silent as to many of
the duties which He requires. To make God known, the teaching of conscience and of reason must
be supplemented by revelation. It is in the Bible that the believer finds the strongest proofs
of the existence of the Divine Being, and from the Bible he obtains also the most comprehensive
and satisfying view of the Deity and of man's relation to Him. He there finds that what he
has to believe concerning God is, that He is Jehovah--the Being infinitely and eternally perfect,
self-existent, and self-sufficient; the only living and true God, there being none beside Him.
The heathen believed in and worshipped many gods. The untutored savage peopled the groves with
them, and the pagan philosopher built innumerable temples in their honour. The Pantheons of
Greece and Rome were crowded with the statues of favourite deities. The doctrine of one living
and true God was prominent in the revelation given to Israel. God's message by Moses had its
foundation--truth in the proclamation: "Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord."[018]
His glory and His work are shared by no other being. He is the absolute Sovereign and Lord
of all creatures. In the Bible, too, man learns that God is his own personal God who cares
for him, and to whom he owes love, allegiance, and obedience. All who refuse to believe in
the existence of God reject the testimony of Scripture regarding Him, but to such as acknowledge
its claim to be the Word of God, the evidence it supplies is convincing and all-sufficient.

Examination of ancient heathen religions and of the views they set forth regarding God shows
clearly the distance at which they stand from the revelation of Scripture. The gods of the
heathen were of like passions with their worshippers--selfish, cruel, vindictive, and without
regard for equity or justice in their treatment of men. The God of the Bible, on the other
hand, is a righteous God, merciful to His creatures, and desirous of their temporal and eternal
wellbeing, and when He inflicts suffering it is not as a passionate Judge, but as a Father
who chastens His children for their profit.

The doctrine of the Trinity of Persons in the God-head, though not expressly stared in the
Creed, is implied in the clauses which refer to each of the Persons who compose it. There is
one God, but in the Godhead there are three Persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost,
whose names indicate the relation in which each stands to the others.

Each of the Persons is complete and perfect God. While there are three Persons in the Godhead,
the same in substance, equal in power and glory, these three are one. The doctrine thus stated
is termed the doctrine of the Trinity. This word is not found in Scripture, but the truth which
it expresses is set forth there, dimly in the Old Testament, distinctly in the New. In the
first chapter of Genesis the word "God" is in the Hebrew a plural noun, and yet it is used
with a singular verb, thus early seeming to intimate what afterwards is clearly made known,
that there is a plurality of Persons, who yet constitute the one living and true God. The same
indication of plurality in unity appears in the account of man's creation: "Let us make man."[019]
This doctrine of the Trinity is essentially one of revelation. Natural religion testifies to
the existence, the personality, and the unity of God, but fails to make known that the unity
of God is a unity of three Persons. The doctrine does not contradict reason, it is above reason.

It is sometimes said that the doctrine of the Trinity involves a contradiction in affirming
that three Persons are one Person. This charge misrepresents the doctrine. Trinitarians do
not say that Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are three Persons in the sense in which three men
are three individuals. They believe that there is one God, and that Father, Son, and Holy Ghost
are yet so distinct that the Father can address the Son, the Son can address the Father, and
the Father can address and send the Spirit. God's ways are not as our ways. He is not a man
that He should be limited by the conditions of human relationships. When we say there are three
Persons in the Godhead, we use a word applicable to men, which, though the most fitting one
at our disposal, must come far short of fully describing the relations of Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost to each other. Possessing no celestial language, we cannot fully describe or understand
heavenly things.

SECTION 3.--THE FATHER

The first Person in the Godhead is the Father. This name may be viewed (a) with reference to
the second Person, Jesus Christ His only Son, or (b) as descriptive of His relation to believers
in Christ Jesus, or (c) as indicating His universal Fatherhood as the Author and the Preserver
of all intelligent creatures. The relation in which the Father stands to the Son, that He is
His Father and has begotten Him, is one that we cannot explain. Any attempt to do so must be
arrogant and misleading, for who "by searching can find out God"?[020] Secret things belong
unto God, but revealed things unto us and our children.[021] The term "Father" is a relative
one and involves the idea of sonship. No one who accepts the teaching of Scripture can doubt
that the Father is God. The statements as to His attributes and universal government are so
many and so strong that, but for other affirmations regarding Deity, we should naturally conclude
that the Father alone is God. But the very name "Father" corrects such a view, and when we
search the Scriptures we find it untenable. God is our Father, but He was "the Father" before
He called man into being. From all eternity He was Father. As from everlasting to everlasting
He is God, so from everlasting to everlasting He is Father. He did not become Father when His
Son assumed human nature, but is such in virtue of His eternal relation to the Word as the
Son of God. It is the Son's existence that constitutes Him Father; and that existence was in
eternity. "I and my Father are one,"[022] is the Son's testimony to His eternal Sonship; and
when He prays His Father to glorify Him, He asks to be glorified with the glory which He had
with Him before the world was.[023] There are other senses in which the first Person of the
Godhead is termed Father. All men are declared to be His offspring, and those who have received
the Spirit of adoption cry, "Abba, Father," and are taught, when they pray, to say, "Our Father."

In an exposition of the Creed the Fatherhood in relation to men generally, or to believers
in particular, need not be considered. Here the name is used to indicate the relation in which
the First Person stands to the Second, in virtue of which alone those who are adopted into
fellowship with the Son become the children of God--the children of Christ's Father and their
Father. The Scriptures teach that the Father is God, that the Son is God, and that the Holy
Ghost is God. At the same time the doctrine of the Divine Unity is affirmed.

The difficulty felt in connection with the doctrine of Trinity in Unity
has led to attempts in ancient and modern times to show that those
passages of Scripture in which it appears to be taught may be otherwise
interpreted. One explanation is, from the name of its first exponent,
termed Sabellianism, or, the doctrine of a Modal Trinity. The view which
it presents of the Divine Being is that the same Person manifests
Himself at one time and in one relation as Father, at another time and
in another relation as Son, and at a different time and in another
relation as Holy Ghost. It attributes divinity to this One Divine Person
in each of His manifestations, but denies that there are three Persons
in the Godhead. The facts of Scripture do not accord with such a view of
the Divine Personality. We find each Person addressing the Others and
speaking of Himself and of Them as distinct Persons. Each speaking of
Himself says "I." The Father says "Thou" to the Son, the Son says "Thou"
to the Father, and the Father and the Son use the pronouns "He" and
"Him" with reference to the Spirit. But the divinity of
    the Father and the Son and of the Holy Ghost is one, the glory
    equal, the majesty equal. Such as is the Father, such also is
    the Son, and such the Holy Spirit. The Father is uncreated, the
    Son is uncreated, the Holy Spirit is uncreated. The Father is
    infinite, the Son is infinite, the Holy Ghost is infinite. The
    Father is eternal, the Son is eternal, the Holy Ghost is
    eternal. And yet these are not three eternal Beings but one
    eternal Being. As also there are not three uncreated beings, nor
    three infinite beings, but one uncreated and one infinite
    Being."

It is sometimes said that the doctrine of the Trinity is of little practical importance, but
such a view of it is inconsistent with the teaching of Scripture, and with the atoning work
of Christ. It is the Divinity of the Son that gives efficacy to His sacrifice. As sinners we
need pardon. Pardon must be preceded by propitiation, and if Christ is not Divine there is
no propitiation. The doctrines of Scripture are so linked together that the rejection of one
invalidates the others. If we deny the Trinity we deny the Gospel message of salvation, and
we accordingly find that most of those who reject the doctrine of the Trinity do not believe
in the reality and efficacy of Christ's atonement.

SECTION 4.--ALMIGHTY

The term "Almighty," which occurs twice in the Creed, represents two Greek words, the one denoting
absolute dominion, the other infinite power in operation. When we say that God the Father is
Almighty, we affirm that He is possessed of entire freedom of action, and that His power is
unlimited. He cannot, indeed, act in opposition to His own nature. In executing His eternal
decrees none can stay His hand from working, but He can do nothing that would derogate from
His eternal power and Godhead. Such inability has its origin not in any limitation of power,
or restriction imposed from without, but in Himself. He knows all things and so cannot be tempted
of evil. He can do whatever He wills, but His will cannot contradict His character.

The statement that God is Almighty implies that all beings are governed and controlled by Him.
All things, save Himself, are His creatures and subject to Him. Even those things that seem
to resist and defy His authority are under His government. Rebellion serves but to make His
omnipotence more apparent, for He causeth the wrath of man to praise Him, and the remainder
of wrath He restraineth.[025] He so governs the universe that all things work together, and
work together for good to them that love Him.[026]

When we say, "God the Father Almighty," it is not meant that the Son and the Holy Ghost are
not Almighty. The Father is Almighty because He is God, the Son, who is one with the Father,
is God and therefore Almighty, and the Holy Ghost is also God and therefore Almighty. In the
unity of the Godhead the same attributes mark the three Persons.

SECTION 5.--MAKER OF HEAVEN AND EARTH

Belief in the Almighty power of God is further declared by a confession of faith in Him as
the Maker of heaven and earth, and this is but a repetition of the statement contained in the
first chapter of Genesis--the only account of Creation which is fitted to solve all difficulties
and to meet all objections. "Maker" in this article is used in the sense of Creator, implying
that heaven and earth were called into existence out of nothing by the word of Divine power;
and by "heaven and earth" are meant all creatures, visible and invisible, that have existed
or do exist.

Those who object to the Scripture statements regarding Creation have maintained views as to
the origin of the material universe differing largely from those held by persons who accept
this article of the Creed, and differing also greatly from one another. Various solutions have
been given, among which may be stated:--

    (a) The view of those who hold that all phenomena and all
    existence originate in Chance or a blind fortuitous concourse of
    atoms. To state such a doctrine is to refute it. No one
    possessed of reason can believe in his heart that Intelligence
    did not create and organise matter, or that the material
    universe, with all its adaptation of parts, was evolved, and is
    governed, by chance or accident. This theory, if it is worthy of
    the name, seems to have been devised in order to evade the idea
    that man is subject to Divine government.

    (b) Another view is that all existence owes its origin to Fate
    or Necessity and is now held in its resistless grasp. The
    advocates of this theory are at variance among themselves. One
    school maintains that all things existed from eternity in their
    present condition, and are destined to continue as they are,
    controlled by relentless and undeviating necessity. Another
    school--the ancient Fatalists--held that at first there was a
    fortuitous concourse of atoms and phenomena, until Fate or
    Chance decided the present order, which became an established
    necessity. A third class hold doctrines of Development. Some of
    them agree with the ancient Fatalists in maintaining that
    development, in a fortuitous concourse and action of matter and
    force, issued in evolution or originated a course of evolution.
    Others again deny fortuitous concourse and affirm that this
    process of evolution had no external beginning, but has
    continued from eternity under the control of evolutionary law.
    The term "law" as used by them has no specific meaning, and is
    simply an adaptation, to a theory naturally atheistic, of a word
    which may serve to commend their doctrine. The "law" of which
    they speak has its origin in matter itself, and is not under the
    control of a Supreme Intelligence. That this is the fact is
    shown by the denial of free-will in man and of the
    superintending providence of God; of the efficacy of prayer and
    of the forgiveness of sin; and by the prominence given in their
    writings to the absolute control of all things by undeviating,
    unchanging law.

    (c) A third view affirms that while there is a distinction
    between the Ego and the non-Ego (the me and the not-me), it is
    impossible to know anything about either in its essence. That
    they exist and that they are different are facts within our
    knowledge, but as to the absolute nature of mind and matter we
    can discover and believe nothing. The ultimate or absolute is
    beyond our reach, as is the infinite and unconditioned. We can
    have no knowledge of First Causes, or of the Ultimate Cause, or
    of the Absolute Cause. The infinite cannot even be apprehended,
    and those who undertake to learn or to speculate regarding the
    infinite engage in a task beyond their powers. Such knowledge is
    not practical. The term "God" is merely an expression for a mode
    of the unknowable, conveying no meaning to those who use it. The
    view thus expressed originated in concessions unhappily made by
    certain writers, as Sir William Hamilton and Dean Mansel, who,
    thinking to defend revealed religion, taught that reason cannot
    know the Infinite, and that therefore the Infinite must reveal
    Himself. Herbert Spencer took advantage of this concession, and
    carried it to a logical conclusion, when he argued that, if
    reason could not know or apprehend the Infinite by reason,
    neither could it by revelation.

    (d) Another class hold the view which is termed cosmogonies
    than that of Moses, whether contained in the sacred books of
    religions that have long existed, or professing to be based on
    modern scientific discovery, raise difficulties that are
    insuperable. Whence came matter if not from the creative word of
    God? To assign eternity to it is to invest it with an attribute
    that is Divine, and Pantheists carry such an explanation to its
    logical conclusion when they affirm that the universe is God.
    The existence of a single atom is an unfathomable mystery. Man
    cannot create or destroy even a particle of matter. How
    overwhelming, then, if we reject the simple statement of the
    Bible, is the mystery of the great universe, in whose extended
    space suns, planets, stars, and systems unceasingly revolve, and
    in which our own world is but a little speck. All things created
    point to God as their origin and source. Jews
and Christians are at one in affirming their belief in God the Father
Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth. Many too who, unlike Jews and
Christians, have not been favoured with a written revelation, have yet
risen to the conception of such a Divine Being as that article sets
forth. Mohammedans believe in an Omnipotent Creator, and many thoughtful
heathens have accepted and maintained the doctrine as an article of
faith. It expresses a conviction reached by Plato and Aristotle, by
Seneca and Epictetus, and is a truth proclaimed by Old Testament
prophets and New Testament saints. No belief regarding things invisible
is more generally professed.

It is otherwise with the second article of the Creed, "I believe in Jesus Christ His only Son
our Lord," which expresses doctrines so hotly disputed that they prove the saying true, "This
child is set for a sign which shall be spoken against."[029] It is rejected by the Jew and
the Mohammedan, and finds opponents in many who profess to accept the Scriptures of the Old
and New Testaments as a Divine revelation, and to regard the exemplary life of Jesus as a model
to be copied, while they deny His Divine origin, His sacrificial death, and His universal authority.

The early controversies concerning the Second Person of the Trinity were disputes regarding
His nature and the relation in which He stands to the Father. Certain heretics affirmed that
Jesus was a mere man, selected by God and specially endowed with the gift of His Spirit. Others
maintained that Christ was not God, but a created spirit, nearest to the Father in dignity,
who took upon Him human nature, and, having finished the work appointed Him on earth, went
up again to God the Father. One class, the Ebionites, regarded Him as a being essentially human,
though begotten of the Spirit, by whom He was anointed above measure; while another, the Docetae,
regarded Him as a Divine Being seemingly bearing human form and united with the man Jesus.
These views were finally rejected by the Catholic Church, because they conflicted with the
Word of God which affirms the true Divinity of the Son of God, the true humanity of the Son
of Man, and the true union of the two natures of God and man in One Person, Jesus Christ.

The Gnostics, who were the leaders in connection with such heretical views, are generally thought
to date from the time of Simon Magus. He had been enrolled as a disciple of the Apostles, and,
professing faith in Christ, was baptized by Peter. But he had joined the Christian Church for
selfish ends,[030] as Luke's statements show. Hymenaeus,[031] Phygellus, and Hermogenes,[032]
referred to by Paul in his second letter to Timothy, are believed to have been Gnostics, and
towards the close of the first century Cerinthus and Ebion extended the system.[033]

SECTION 2.--JESUS

Jesus is the personal name of our Lord. In ancient times names had often a meaning and importance
which they do not carry now. "Name" means a word by which any person or thing is known, and
names were originally given from some quality attribute inherent in the person or thing to
which they were attached. Proper names among the Hebrews had a deeper meaning and a closer
connection with character and condition than elsewhere. The care that marks the Scriptures
in recording the origin of names of individuals and places, the frequent allusions to names
as having a special relation to character or qualities, the solemnity with which a change of
name is stated as marking an epoch in the history of individuals or nations, and the frequency
with which names are associated with great events, with promises, threats, or prophecies, show
the importance that was attached to them. This feature is most marked in the use by the Jews
of the word "Name" in reference to God. The "Name of the Lord," or an equivalent expression,
constantly occurs to denote God Himself. His Name is in Scripture identified with His character,
marking His attributes and His nature as distinguished from all other beings. The Name, Jehovah,
by which God revealed Himself to Moses was so closely identified by the Jews with the Divine
Personality and Holiness that it was never pronounced by them.

In Old Testament times the Deliverer foretold as the object of faith and hope and love under
the Gospel Dispensation was announced by a declaration of His name. In His Divine power and
by His efficacious sacrifice He is Jesus, the Saviour. He does not save, as some who profess
to be Christians hold, by the influence of His own example and teaching only, just as one man
may be said to save another whom he persuades to abandon evil habits and form good ones. He
is our Saviour because He died as a sacrifice for our sins. Had He not expiated our guilt by
dying for us, His example, teaching, and sympathy would never have brought us salvation.

The name "Jesus" is a human name. In its Hebrew form Joshua, Jehoshua, Hosea it had been borne
by others. We read of one Jesus in the New Testament[036] and of many in the pages of Josephus.
In this respect, as in other particulars, Jesus was "made like unto his brethren" and bore
a human distinctive name. "Jesus" was accordingly the name given to Him at His circumcision,
by which He was to be known in His family and among the people of Nazareth. During His ministry
He was described as "Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee";[037] and the title affixed
to His cross by Pilate was "Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews." Yet, as if to make emphatic
the truth that His humanity did not derogate from His Divine power and Godhead, the first Evangelist,
who describes the angel's visit, quotes in immediate connection Isaiah's prophetic announcement,
"They shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, GOD with us."[038] In the name
Jesus thus bestowed we have the announcement of Himself as a personal Saviour from sin, in
its power and consequences. Of those who had borne it before Him some were raised up to deliver
the people of their nation from suffering in time, but He came to be man's everlasting Saviour.
"Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among
men, whereby we must be saved."[039] It is important therefore to bear in mind that Jesus is
a name not only given to Him by God, but a name itself Divine; not only the name by which,
as that of a Mediator, we worship God, but the name under which, as that of God Himself, we
worship Him. One name only was distinctive. Both among the Jews and among the Greeks this system
of nomenclature prevailed, family names being unknown. It was different with the Romans, by
many of whom more names than one were borne. In reading ancient Greek history, we find illustrious
personages known by one name only, as Plato, Aristotle, Socrates, Solon. The same feature marks
early Jewish history. Abraham, Isaac, Moses, Job were not known by any other names than these.
Sometimes names were changed or modified in order to express some speciality of character or
achievement--Abram to Abraham, Jacob to Israel, Hoshea to Joshua. In later times appellations
descriptive of the work or office of individuals were attached to their original names, as
in the cases of John the Baptist, of Matthew the Publican, and of our Lord Himself, Jesus the
Christ. This latter practice prevailed in early English history, and famous kings appear bearing
descriptive epithets in addition to their original single names--Alfred the Great, Edward the
Confessor, William the Conqueror.

Christ is not a proper name but an official title. Although now often used to designate the
person of the Lord Jesus, it was not so when He lived in the world. As John was the Baptist
or Baptizer, Jesus was the Christ--the Anointed. The title is the Greek equivalent of the Hebrew
Messiah, and means the Anointed. It denotes that He who bore it was separated, consecrated,
and invested with high office. These distinctions met in Jesus, rendering the title appropriate.

At the time of the birth of Jesus, the coming of a great deliverer was at once the desire and
the expectation not of Jews only, but of many nations. Roman historians of that period tell
us that a redeemer was to make his appearance from among the nation of Israel. This belief
was no doubt spread abroad by Jewish exiles, who, scattered through many lands, carried with
them the hopes and prophecies which had been given from time to time to their own people.

That the expected Messiah had come to the world bearing with Him from heaven a message of salvation
was the cardinal doctrine of Apostolic preaching. To accept Jesus as the Christ was to accept
Him as the Saviour and Deliverer. When Andrew found his brother Simon he said to him, "We have
found the Messias."[041] "Is not this the Christ?"[042] was the appeal of the woman of Samaria
to the people of her city; and the confession of Peter that Jesus was the Christ, was declared
by our Lord to be a revelation not of flesh and blood, but of His Father in heaven.[043] Not
Apollos only, but Paul and the other inspired teachers also, set it before them as their appointed
work, "to show by the Scriptures that Jesus was Christ."[044] To confess that Jesus was the
Christ was an acknowledgment that in Him were vested all those attributes and qualities which
the Old Testament Scriptures ascribed to Messiah, that Jesus of Nazareth was the Deliverer
of whom the prophets testified, to whose coming all the holy men of old looked forward, whom
prophets and kings desired to see, and of whom all Scripture bore witness. It was the acknowledgment
by the common people that Jesus was Messiah that stirred the indignation of the Jewish rulers.
They saw that, if this were conceded, all His claims must be held valid, and accordingly the
Sanhedrim passed a resolution to the effect that, "if any man did confess that Jesus was Christ,
he should be put out of the synagogue."[045]

The name "Christ" denotes the offices which Jesus executes as our Redeemer. Three classes were
set apart by anointing--the Prophet, who made known the will of God; the Priest, who confessed
sin and offered sacrifice for the people; and the King, who acted as their leader and commander.
Jesus was consecrated for His work as our Redeemer by anointing, but not, so far as we know,
with material oil. He who anointed Him was God the Father, and the oil that descended upon
Him was the Holy Ghost, of whose influence oil was the symbol. It was not until after He had
finished His work that His followers so closely associated Him with the Messiahship as to speak
of Him not as Jesus only, nor as Christ only, but as Jesus Christ. This twofold name occurs
very rarely in the Gospels--once in Matthew, once in Mark, never in Luke; but in the Epistles
it is the name by which He is designated and made known to the world. Love must have an object,
and from eternity the Father was not alone. The only-begotten and well-beloved Son was with
Him, dwelt in His bosom, and shared His glory. The Filiation or Sonship of our Lord follows
the statement of His proper name and the declaration of His Messiahship. It is expressed in
the designation, "Only Son," which is His divine name, peculiar to Himself, incommunicable
to any other being. He is the Son of the Father, and is His only Son inasmuch as He alone partakes
of His Divine nature, and in this nature is the Son. The Old Testament Scriptures foretold
that Christ should be the Son of God. The Divine Sonship existed in the beginning before He
was the child of Mary, the seed of the woman. He was the Son of God before the birth of Abraham:
"before Abraham was I am."[054] Though John the Baptist was older than Jesus, and preceded
Him in His ministry, Jesus was yet preferred in honour before him, "for he was before him."
"The Lord possessed him in the beginning of his way, before his works of old."[055] In the
relation of the Son to the Father, there is a mystery which we cannot solve. "Who shall declare
his generation?" Earthly figures fail to set forth Divine realities, and as we are dependent
upon human emblems for the conceptions we form of heavenly things, we see through a glass darkly.
But though we cannot fully understand the sense in which our Lord is the Son of God, we yet
believe that He is so in a manner analogous to that in which we are our fathers' sons--possessing
the same nature as His Father, and having that nature communicated to Him as the only-begotten
Son. God has other sons. Angels are termed sons of God. Men are also His offspring, and believers
are now the sons of God; but Jesus is God's son in a higher, special, and perfect sense.

That Jesus claimed to be in this sense the Son of God is clear from many incidents in His history.
It was ostensibly on the ground that He declared Himself to be "equal with God" that He was
arrested and condemned by the Jewish rulers. The reply was distinct and emphatic. The Sonship
they assert is very different from that which is implied when a mere man who fears God and
keeps His commandments is said to be a son of God. It was a claim to the possession of Divine
personality and power, and was so understood by His accusers. The horror, real or affected,
and the rent robes of the high priest, the verdict of the court, and the contemptuous treatment
to which Jesus was afterwards subjected, leave no room for doubting that He declared Himself
to be the Son of God, having at His disposal the powers of heaven and earth.

SECTION 5--OUR LORD

The last title of the Second Person is expressive of His dominion. The name "Lord" is the translation
of a Greek word, which signifies ruling or governing. Jesus Christ is not only a Lord, He rules
by authority and in a sense peculiar to Himself, so that He is commonly spoken of in the New
Testament as "the Lord": "Come, see the place where the Lord lay";[058] "They have taken the
Lord out of the sepulchre";[059] "I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto
you." In the time of Christ the title "Lord" had for Jews and Jewish Christians a special personal
meaning. "The Lord" was in the Septuagint, as it is still in the Authorised English version
of the Old Testament, the translation of "Jehovah."[060] When, therefore, the Apostles used
this title to designate their Master, there is reason to think that they did so in the full
belief that He was one with the Father. This view is confirmed by Paul's statement.

Scripture recognises the existence in the universe of two great armies, marshalled under their
respective leaders--one under the rule of Jesus Christ, the other under His adversary the Devil,
otherwise termed Satan, Apollyon, and the Old Serpent. These powers are in constant antagonism,
and every man takes his place in the army of Christ or in that of Satan. Those opposed to the
Lord are rebels who, except they repent, must share the doom of their leader in the place prepared
for the devil and his angels; "for He must reign until He hath put all His enemies under His
feet." He is their Lord for their overthrow and destruction; while to those who are "with Him,"--"the
called, and chosen, and faithful,"[067]--He is their Lord to secure for them victory and everlasting
salvation.

It is noteworthy that a plural pronoun is used in this recognition of Christ as our Lord, while
elsewhere throughout the Creed the confession of belief is personal, "I believe." The plural
form here indicates that while in following Jesus we are separated from the world, we are gathered
into the fellowship of the saints, and are members of the whole family in heaven and earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTICLE 3

Who was conceived by the Holy Ghost, born of the Virgin Mary

The Creed proceeds to declare belief in the doctrine of the Incarnation, which is thus set
forth in the Shorter Catechism: "Christ, the Son of God, became man, by taking to Himself a
true body, and a reasonable soul, being conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost, in the womb
of the Virgin Mary, and born of her, yet without sin."[069]

Two Evangelists record the miraculous birth of Jesus. Mark and John do not refer to it, and
their silence has led some opponents of Christianity to discredit the statements of Matthew
and Luke. But while there is no direct account given by Mark or John of the miraculous conception
and birth of Jesus, the fact of His Divine descent is implied in many portions of their Gospels.
The words with which Mark opens his narrative clearly express it, "The beginning of the gospel
of Jesus Christ, the Son of God;"[070] as does the statement he makes that at His baptism there
came a voice from heaven saying, "Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."[071]
John is equally explicit in declaring his belief in the Divinity of Jesus. Luke, who is termed
by Paul "the beloved physician," gives the fullest account of the Nativity. His writings are
characterised by minuteness of detail and historical accuracy. Recent investigations have shown
that, even in regard to matters about which he was long thought to have been mistaken, Luke's
statements are strictly correct.[074]

The story of the miraculous conception would not, without the strongest corroborative evidence,
have commended itself to a man of his acumen and his calling. A physician by profession, the
companion of Apostles, and possessing singular penetration and sagacity, he tells us that he
had received the facts he narrates from eye witnesses and competent authorities. For information
as to the events connected with the birth of her Son, Luke would naturally have recourse to
Mary. There is evidence in his Gospel that he had intimate knowledge of her private thoughts
and actions.[075] Lange, in his Life of Jesus, finds in the specialties of the narrative evidence
of a woman's diction.[076] Be this as it may, the minuteness of detail, the message of the
angel Gabriel, the preservation of the sacred songs, and of the thoughts and words of the Virgin,
justify the belief that Luke received his information from herself. When we find him assuring
his friend Theophilus that he himself had perfect understanding of all things from the very
first, the inference is natural that his information was obtained from the most trustworthy
sources. There is no reason to doubt that Mary was associated with the Apostles of her Son,
and had opportunities of imparting information regarding Him which no other could supply Luke's
account corresponds with that of John, to whose care Jesus from the Cross committed His mother,
and who from that time "took her unto his own home."[077]

It does not necessarily follow, even if the information was supplied by Mary, that it is therefore
to be accepted as true. Human witnesses are not infallible or invariably honest, and it is
conceivable that Mary may have been a dreamer or a deceiver. This article of the Creed, contradicting
as it does the ordinary course of nature, stands in need of more than a historic statement.
Jesus admitted that if His claims had been supported by no other evidence than His own word,
the Jews would have had excuse for hesitating to accept Him. "If," said He, "I bear witness
of myself, my witness is not true,"[078] and therefore He appealed to the testimony borne to
His Messiahship by His Father, by John the Baptist, by His miracles, and by His life. All the
evidence by which the Divine nature and mission of Jesus were accredited goes to support the
account of His super natural birth.

That Jesus was born of Mary is a plain historic truth to which all must accord belief. "Yes,"
said Renan, who did not regard Christ as the Son of God, "this story of Jesus is no fable,
but a true history Christ really lived." The miraculous birth was a fulfilment of prophecy.
When the angel told Mary that the child to be born of her would be the Son of God, he cited
Isaiah's prophecy for the confirmation of her faith, and indeed the same truth had been foreshadowed
when the promise was given to Eve that her seed should bruise the head of the serpent. The
first Adam had no human father. He was the Son of God. It was therefore fitting that the second
Adam should resemble the first in this respect, being in a sense infinitely higher than our
first father the Son of God, His only Son. It was fitting too that He who was to assume the
nature, not of any branch of the human family but of universal man, should be conceived by
the Holy Ghost. Other faiths than Christianity are limited in their adaptation to races. The
religion of Mahomet is not practicable save in Eastern latitudes. The Koran enjoins as duties
practices that cannot be carried out in Western countries. The faiths of Brahma and Buddha
find followers only under Eastern skies, and even Judaism required observances which could
be rendered at Jerusalem only. All faiths but Christianity are narrowed down by the nationalities
of their founders or adherents. It is otherwise with the religion of Jesus of Nazareth. He
came from God with a mission and a message for the world. In comparison with the severe requirements
of the law and the grievous exactions of religions devised by men, His "yoke is easy and His
burden is light." "In every nation he that feareth God and worketh righteousness is accepted
with him."[080]

In being born, Jesus assumed the nature of humanity, and, in so doing, more than restored to
man the likeness to God which our first parents lost, for themselves and their descendants,
through the Fall. He thereby made it possible for God to dwell with man, and for man to rise
into communion with God. Sin had effaced the Divine image, and no other than the Son of God
could give back to men the power to reflect in their own lives the character of God. His possession
of the human nature gives us confidence in approaching Him, by assuring us of His brotherhood
and sympathy; while His possession of the Divine nature assures us that He can make His brotherhood
and sympathy effectual. They so far transcend reason that they can be apprehended only when
reason is sustained by faith. This article, which affirms that Jesus "suffered under Pontius
Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried," is a simple historical statement. Pilate is a historic
person, the details of whose life are recorded, not in the Gospels only, but in secular history.
Josephus records several incidents in the life of Pilate which are strikingly in accordance
with his character as set forth in the Gospels. Tacitus, a Roman historian, who wrote his Annals
soon after the crucifixion of Jesus, relates that, while Pilate was governor of Judaea, Jesus
Christ was put to death. The testimony of the Gospels and the statement of the Creed are thus
confirmed by the Roman and the Jewish historians. But, indeed, the event itself is not the
subject of controversy. It is the conclusions drawn from it by the followers of Christ that
are disputed. "Christ crucified, to the Jews a stumbling-block, and to the Greeks foolishness,"[081]
still raises opposition and kindles hostility.

The name of Pilate is inserted not with the view of branding him with infamy, but in order
to fix the date of the crucifixion of Jesus. It is the only intimation of the time of His death
that the Creed contains. It states that He was born, and that His mother was the Virgin Mary,
and beyond this reference to Pilate there is no intimation as to the time of the nativity or
the death. Bishop Pearson writes:--"As the Son of God, by His deliberate counsel, was sent
into the world to die in the fulness of time, so it concerns the Church to know the time in
which He died. And because the ancient custom of the world was to make computations by the
governors, and refer their historical relations to the respective times of their government,
therefore, that we might be properly assured of the actions of our Saviour which He did, and
of His sufferings,--that is the actions which others did to Him,--the present governor is named
in that form of speech which is proper to such historical or chronological narrations when
we affirm that He suffered under Pontius Pilate."[082] From stating the birth of Christ, the
Creed passes by what at first sight may seem an abrupt transition to His suffering, crucifixion,
and death. There is no reference to His life or works, though these differed so widely from
those of ordinary men. The reason seems to be that the end for which He came into the world
was to suffer and die. Although He spake as never man spake, and did the works no other man
did, it was not in the first place to teach or to work miracles that He emptied Himself of
His glory and came to earth, but in order to suffer and die in the room and stead of sinners.
Others had been prophets and teachers, others had worked miracles, others had done good in
their day and generation, but none save Jesus had come in his own name or wielded power so
marvellous as His. No one could share with Him the work of suffering and dying for sinners.
He was lifted up that He might draw all men unto Him. "He suffered the just for the unjust,
that he might bring us to God."[083] On the cross He tasted death for every man, and made a
sacrificial atonement for the sins of the world. Those who were with Him fixed their eyes on
His greatness as manifested in His wisdom and miracles, and looked for His setting up a kingdom
of this world, but He Himself from the very beginning knew that the path to be traversed by
Him was one of agony and death. The sacred writers who foretold His coming pointed indeed to
victory as the ultimate issue of His mission, but they also clearly associated His life with
conflict and suffering. From the first intimation of a Deliverer, which spoke of a heel bruised
by man's malignant adversary, there was indicated in every type and prophecy the truth that
Messiah was to be "a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief," whose triumph was to be achieved
through suffering. The expectation current among the Jews that deliverance would be wrought
by Messiah, without humiliation or suffering, showed that they misinterpreted the messages
of the prophets. Familiar with the letter, they failed to grasp the spirit of the prophetical
writings. Persecution followed Him as a babe: Herod sought to slay Him, and Joseph and Mary
had to flee into Egypt.[092] He was "despised and rejected" by His countrymen. His claims were
refused by His kinsmen. He "endured the contradiction of sinners."[093] He "took our infirmities
and bare our sicknesses." He hungered and thirsted and was weary; He was spit upon, buffeted,
and scourged. The cross on which He was to suffer was laid upon His shoulders, till His exhausted
frame broke down; and on Calvary a thorny crown was set upon His brow, and the cruel nails
pierced His hands and His feet. But the sorrow within His soul was worse to bear than bodily
buffering. It is the knowledge that their Divine Saviour is their Brother-man that gives to
believing sufferers boldness and confidence as they draw nigh to the throne of grace.

SECTION 2.--WAS CRUCIFIED

Prophecy in the sense of prediction is a very interesting and important branch of Christian
evidence. Old Testament prophets foretold minute events in the history of the Lord Jesus Christ,
such as His lineal descent, the place and time of His birth, its miraculous character, His
death, His burial, His three days' sojourn in the sepulchre, the casting of lots for His raiment,
the piercing of His hands and feet, His last exclamation, His resurrection and ascension. Whatever
view may be taken as to the dates of the various books of Scripture, it must be admitted that
the whole body of the Old Testament was in circulation among the Jews hundreds of years before
the birth of Christ. There can be no doubt that these prophecies were separated by great distance
in time from the events predicted. Even the Septuagint Version, which is a Greek translation
from the original Hebrew Scriptures, existed at Alexandria about two hundred years before His
advent.

One of the most striking features of Old Testament prediction is its bearing upon the closing
scenes of Christ's history. In its types as well as in its prophecies His death was foreshadowed,
and the humiliating and ignominious treatment to which He was subjected minutely described.
The predictions involved events that appeared contradictory and paradoxical until their fulfilment
furnished the key. He Himself told the disciples again and again that He should be crucified.
This form of execution was a Roman punishment reserved for slaves and the vilest criminals;
and the fact that Jesus was subjected to it depended on a combination of events which no mere
human sagacity could have foreseen. It required that, though he should be apprehended, accused,
tried, and found guilty by Jews, His death-sentence should be inflicted by Gentiles; that the
Roman governor of Judaea should, against his better judgment, surrender to the clamorous cry
of a mob who demanded that the prisoner should be crucified. It required that the betrayal
and condemnation of Jesus should take place during the Passover week, when it was unlawful
for the Jews to put any man to death. The excuse of the Jewish rulers, that they could not
inflict death, did not mean that this power had been withdrawn from them, but that it was against
their law to exercise it then. Had the season been different, had the Jews themselves carried
out the sentence of death, it would have been accomplished not by crucifixion, but by stoning.
Such an execution would not have fulfilled prophecy or have been associated with the ignominy
that marked the Roman death-penalty.

The death of Jesus by crucifixion fulfilled in a wonderful manner the types and figures of
the Old Testament. He applied the type of the brazen serpent to His death on the cross on which
He was to be lifted up, and from which He was to exercise His healing power on those whom sin
had bitten. The surrender of Isaac by Abraham, when he that had received the promises offered
up his only begotten son, prefigured the unspeakable gift by the Father, who spared not His
own Son, and the self-surrender of the Son, who gave Himself for us. As Isaac went forth bearing
the wood on which he was to be offered, he was a type of Him who went forth from Jerusalem
to Calvary bearing His cross. Had His sentence been any other than death by crucifixion, He
would not have come under the doom which required that a prisoner should bear his cross. The
Paschal Lamb, of which not a bone was to be broken, prefigured the Antitype in His exemption
from the treatment to which the two thieves crucified with Him were subjected. In crucifixion
He was numbered with the transgressors and associated with accursed criminals, and so prophecy
received fulfilment.

It is a standing testimony at once to the reality of Christ's suffering, and to the power which
He exercises over men's minds and consciences, that from being associated with shame and scorn,
the sign of the cross has been elevated to the highest place of honour and dignity. Through
his reverence for Jesus, Constantine the Great, the first Christian Emperor of Rome, abolished
crucifixion. It is recognised that through Christ's death upon the cross man obtains all that
makes life precious. Instead of being regarded with scorn, a cross is the coveted emblem now
of valour and exalted achievement. The instrument wherewith capital punishment was inflicted
on abandoned criminals has come to be an ornament of monarchs. Such a change is to be explained
only by the fact that it is the sign of Christ's redeeming sacrifice, and that to multitudes
who glory in the Cross, He who suffered the painful death on Calvary is the "power of God and
the wisdom of God unto salvation."

SECTION 3.--DEAD

The death of Jesus Christ was the result of His being crucified. When He died, the great sacrifice
for the sins of the world was accomplished. Death was necessary for the completion of His work,
and this was the fact most prominent in Old Testament type and prophecy. "Without shedding
of blood is no remission,"[098] and it was to His death as the procuring cause of salvation
that the Apostles directed their converts. The bread represents His body "broken for us"; the
wine, His blood which was "shed for many for the remission of sins."[101] "We are reconciled
to God by the death of His Son."[102] "We have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness
of sins."[103] Statements such as these fail to convey any meaning if Christ did not really
die on the cross, or if salvation comes to us in any other way than through His death as an
atoning sacrifice. Of the reality of the death there is abundant evidence. It is recorded that,
after six hours of suffering on the cross, Jesus gave up the ghost. The soldiers did not break
His legs as they did in the case of the malefactors, because they saw and pronounced Him dead
already; but one of them inflicted a spear-wound with a force that would have caused death
had any life remained. The result was an outflow of blood and water, of itself sufficient evidence
that death had done its work upon the Sufferer. Before Pilate permitted the body of Jesus to
be delivered to Joseph, he was careful to make sure, by questioning the centurion in charge,
that the wonderful prisoner who had caused him so great anxiety was dead. Thus Messiah was
cut off, but not for Himself. He stood in the room and stead of sinners, and, though Himself
without sin, He tasted death for every man. "He was delivered for our offences." "The Lord
laid on him the iniquity of us all." His death was not the result of unavoidable circumstances,
for it pleased the Lord to bruise Him; and His sacrifice was voluntary, for He said, "I lay
down my life ... no man taketh it from me."[104] The penalty of death which He endured did
not pertain to Him but to those for whom He died. A similar view has been adopted by some modern
writers, who assert that what the witnesses of the crucifixion saw was not death but a swoon,
from which, through the ministry of His disciples, Jesus was restored after He had been taken
down from the cross. It is urged in support of this view that a crucified criminal did not
usually die as Jesus is said to have died, six hours after He was crucified, but lingered on
for days, before being relieved from his sufferings by death. Jesus' legs were not broken by
the soldiers, because they believed Him to be dead, but--say those who deny the reality of
the death--the soldiers were mistaken, the seeming lifelessness was not real, and recovery
soon followed, so complete that He was able to appear in public on the third day.

In considering this statement, we must take into account the physical condition of Jesus when
He was crucified. On the night of His betrayal, and after His apprehension, He had been subjected
to intense suffering in body and to sorrow of soul such as human thought cannot conceive. In
Gethsemane He had passed through an experience of agony from which He must have risen weakened,
to endure new forms of suffering. He had been scourged by Roman soldiers, whose cruel loaded
weapons inflicted wounds that left deep scars upon His flesh and caused intense pain and exhaustion.
His hands and feet had been fixed to the cross with nails. He had been crowned with thorns
and mocked and hooted by a reckless mob. He had been hurried from the Sanhedrim to the Judgment-hall,
and had carried the cross until He sank beneath its weight. He had for six hours endured intense
suffering from pain and thirst, and when, after a strong Roman soldier had thrust a spear into
His side, He was taken down from the cross, and declared by the centurion and his company to
be dead, He was laid without food, and remained for two nights and a day, in a cold rock-sepulchre,
whose door was barred by a great stone, sealed, and guarded by soldiers. Suppose for a moment
that Jesus had survived this terrible ordeal of suffering, and that, having eluded His Roman
guard and His Jewish persecutors, He had again entered into Jerusalem, it must have been as
a weak, disabled invalid, not as a man possessing normal strength and vigour. Yet on the third
day He showed Himself alive, bearing no traces of the suffering He had endured except the marks
of His wounds. The feet that had been pierced bore Him from Jerusalem to Emmaus, a journey
of threescore furlongs; and He passed from place to place with a swiftness of movement and
a superiority to obstacles that filled the disciples with amazement.

In the light of these facts, the view we have been considering is utterly untenable. It is
no matter for wonder that Jesus, after such exhaustion, died six hours after He had been lifted
up on the cross. The circumstances which preceded His dying are not consistent with the opinion
that while in the sepulchre He recovered from a swoon. It is not possible to conceive that
a man, wounded and bruised--His hands, feet, and side pierced with nails and spear--could appear
so soon, bright and radiant, strong and vigorous, undistressed by pain or weakness, and possessing
power of movement not only restored, but marvellously augmented. If Jesus was not really "dead,"
no explanation can be given of His disappearance from history. If He had really lived as a
man after His crucifixion, we should have looked for a fresh outbreak of persecution directed
against Him. We have His own testimony by the Spirit, "I am he that liveth, and was dead."[109]

SECTION 4.--AND BURIED

Isaiah thus prophesied regarding the burial of the Messiah: "He was cut off out of the land
of the living ... and he made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his death."[110]
In ordinary circumstances, the body of a crucified person would not have received burial. It
was the Roman custom to leave the bodies of slaves and criminals, who alone were subjected
to this punishment, suspended on the cross, a prey to beasts and birds, and when these and
the elements had done their work upon the flesh, the remains were ignominiously cast out. The
Jews, who inflicted capital punishment not by crucifixion but by stoning, did not thus deal
with the bodies of malefactors; but, as the law directed, gave them burial on the night of
execution.[111] The presence of dead bodies in the neighbourhood of Jerusalem during the Passover
festival was regarded as a defilement, and steps were taken to have those of Jesus and the
malefactors removed. The Jews could not themselves dispose of the bodies, because they would
have sustained pollution by contact with them, and also because they had made over to the Romans
the execution of the death-sentence. "The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that
the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath day, (for that Sabbath day was an
high day,) besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away."[112]
This request was granted, but, through the interposition of Joseph, a rich man of Arimathaea--to
whom, as a member of the supreme council, the resolution for the removal of the bodies would
be known--that of Jesus escaped the ignominious treatment to which the others were subjected.
He came and went in boldly unto Pilate and craved the body of Jesus, securing for it an honourable
burial such as the Jews had not contemplated. The disciples of Jesus do not appear to have
shared in this work, which was watched from a distance by certain women from Galilee, who followed
and saw where He was laid. They, too, made ready spices and ointment with which to honour the
body of the Lord; but when they came to the tomb on the morning of the first day of the week,
they found it empty, for Jesus had risen. It is not without meaning that the tomb in which
the body of Jesus was laid was a new one. It was thus impossible to affirm that any other than
He had opened a way out of its dark recess, the conqueror of death.

Such was the wonderful combination of circumstances that led to the fulfilment of Isaiah's
prophecy, "He made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his death." The Jews desired
that He should be buried with the wicked. When they besought Pilate to remove the bodies, they
wished that Jesus and the malefactors should be laid together. If the Jewish rulers had not
parted with their right to dispose of the bodies, the three who had been crucified together
would have been consigned to the burying-ground set apart for the interment of Jewish criminals;
but it was the Divine decree that Jesus should make His grave with the rich, and therefore
the event was so overruled that the bodies of Jesus and the malefactors were at the disposal
not of the Jews, but of the Roman governor, who delivered the body of Jesus to the rich Joseph.
While, therefore, Jesus was executed in such a way that, but for the intervention of the Jews
and Pilate and Joseph, He would have been buried with criminals, "he made his grave with the
rich in his death." Thus He who had humbled Himself in dying was honoured in His burial. Joseph
and Nicodemus were timid men. The one was a secret disciple and the other, through fear of
the Jews, came to Jesus by night. Though members of the Sanhedrim, they had lacked courage
to defend Jesus when He was under trial; but now, grown bold, they identified themselves with Him.

The sepulchre was carefully watched. The clause, which was one of the latest admitted into
the Creed, was derived from another creed known as that of Aquileia, compiled in the fourth
century. It does not appear in the Nicene Creed, but it has a place in the Thirty-nine Articles
of the Church of England, where we read, "As Christ died for us, and was buried, so also it
is to be believed that He went down into Hell." The Westminster Divines, who gave the Creed
a place at the close of their Shorter Catechism, appended a note explanatory of the clause
to this effect, "That is, continued in the state of the dead, and under the power of death,
until the third day."

The word "hell" is used in various senses in the Old Testament. Sometimes it means the grave,
sometimes the abode of departed spirits irrespective of character, sometimes the place in which
the wicked are punished.

In the English New Testament, also, the word "hell" has not in every place the same meaning.
It represents two different nouns in the original Greek--Gehenna and Hades. Gehenna was the
name of a deep, narrow valley, bordered by precipitous rocks, in the neighbourhood of Jerusalem,
which had been desecrated by human sacrifices in the time of idolatrous kings, and afterwards
became the depository of city refuse and of the offal of the temple sacrifices. The other noun,
rendered by the same English word Hell, is Hades, which means "covered," "unseen" or "hidden."
Hades is the abode of disembodied spirits until the resurrection. The Jews believed it to consist
of two parts, one blissful, which they termed Paradise--the abode of the faithful; the other
Gehenna, in which the wicked are retained for judgment. Lazarus and Dives were both in Hades,
but separated from each other by an impassable gulf, the one in an abode of comfort, the other
in a place of torment.[117]

As long as the spirit tabernacles in the body there are tokens of its presence in the visible
life which is sustained through its union with the body. But when it departs from its dwelling-place
in the flesh, death and corruption begin their work on the body. Death is complete only when
the spirit has departed, and it is probable that this statement in the Creed was meant to express
in the fullest terms that Christ's death was real. As man He had taken to Himself a true body
and a reasonable soul, and when His body was crucified and dead, His spirit passed, as other
human spirits pass at death, into Hades. It is not without a meaning that we read, "When Jesus
had cried with a loud voice, he gave up the ghost."[118] Ghost is simply spirit, and in His
case, as in that of every man, there was a true departure of the soul from the body at death.
It was with His spirit that His last thought in life was occupied. He knew that though it was
to depart from the battered, bruised tabernacle of His body, it was not to pass out of His
Father's sight or His Father's care. "Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit,"[119] were
His last words on the cross.

The descent into hell is not referred to in the Westminster Confession, but in the Larger Catechism
this statement is found: "Christ's humiliation after His death consisted in His being buried,
and continuing in the state of the dead, and under the power of death, till the third day,
which hath been otherwise expressed in these words, 'He descended into hell'"[120] What the
Westminster Divines meant was, that while Christ's body was laid in the grave His spirit passed
from the visible to the invisible world, that, as He shared the common lot of men in the death
and burial of His body, so He shared their common lot in passing as a spirit into the abode
of spirits. The statement of this clause follows naturally what is said of the body of Jesus
in that which precedes it. As His body was crucified, dead, and buried, so His spirit passed
into the abode of spirits. "In all things it behoved him to be made like unto His brethren."[121]

Those who maintain that the spirit of Christ descended into hell in a sense peculiar to Himself,
ground their opinion upon certain passages of Scripture. It expresses the confidence of the
speaker, that God will not deliver His soul to the power of Sheol (the Hebrew word equivalent
to the Greek Hades), or suffer His body to see corruption, and in this sense the passage is
quoted by Peter, as a proof from prophecy of the resurrection of Christ. Ephesians iv. 9 is
also regarded as giving sanction to this view--"Now that he ascended, what is it but that he
also descended first into the lower parts of the earth?" By the "lower parts of the earth"
some understand parts lower than the earth, but such a view rests on a strained interpretation
of the passage. Paul's argument is that ascent to heaven must have been made by one who, before
ascending, was below. Christ had come down from heaven to earth, and was below therefore, he
argues, Christ is the subject of the prophecy he has quoted. He it was that hid ascended up
on high, not the Father, who is everywhere.[122]

In Isaiah xliv. 23 we have corroboration of this view: "Sing, O ye heavens ... shout, ye lower
parts of the earth." Here "lower parts" means simply the earth beneath; that is, beneath the
heavens.

The most difficult and important passage bearing on the clause is 1 Peter iii. 18, 19. The
passage marks an antithesis between "flesh" and "spirit." In Christ's "flesh." He was put to
death. His enemies killed His body, but His soul was as beyond their power. His body was dead,
but in the abode of souls His "spirit" was alive and active.

So far there is here simply the statement that our Lord's disembodied spirit passed to Hades,
but the Apostle adds that He "preached to the spirits in prison," and it is inferred by some
that He preached repentance, but this is an assumption for which there is no Scripture warrant.
We are not told what was the subject of Christ's preaching. He had finished His work on earth,
had atoned for sin, had overcome death and conquered Satan. Even angels did not fully know
the work of grace and salvation which Christ accomplished for man, and it is not likely that
the spirits of departed antediluvians and patriarchs understood its greatness. The least in
the Kingdom of Heaven knows more than the greatest of patriarchs or prophets knew. While in
the flesh they had seen His day afar off, and, as disembodied spirits, they knew that Messiah
by suffering and dying was to work out their redemption, but before the work was finished neither
men nor angels understood the mystery of it, and what is more likely than that the completion
of His redeeming work was first made known to them in the spirit by the Redeemer Himself? If
we accept this view, the preaching to the spirits in prison was the intimation to those already
blessed, who had while on earth repented and believed, that Messiah by dying had brought in
everlasting salvation for His people.

There is still a difficulty in Peter's words. Christ is said to have preached to those who
were disobedient in the days of Noah. Peter says that in the writings of Paul there are some
things hard to be understood, but what he himself writes regarding Christ's work in Hades is
also difficult, and the passage has found a great variety of interpretations. It would seem
to imply that Christ in the spirit carried a special message to the antediluvians who had been
disobedient and had perished in the Flood. What that message was we are not told, and human
conjecture may not supply what the Spirit of God has seen fit to conceal. While the passage
is a difficult one, the inference is not warranted which some have drawn from it, that those
who are disobedient to Christ and reject His Gospel may, though they die impenitent, nevertheless
obtain salvation after death. The plain teaching of Scripture is that it is appointed unto
men once to die, and after that the judgment.[123] And whatever the statement of Peter may
mean, it does not sanction belief in purgatory or in universal restoration. Romanists teach
that the department of Hades to which the spirit of our Lord descended was that in which dwelt
the souls of believers who died before the time of Christ, and that the object of His descent
was the deliverance and introduction into heaven of the pious dead who had been imprisoned
in the Limbus Patrum, as they term that portion of Hades which these occupied. This they say
was the triumph of Christ to which Paul refers in Ephesians iv. 8, when, quoting the 68th Psalm,
he tells us that He ascended up on high, leading captivity captive.

According to the Romanists, Hades consists of three divisions--heaven, hell, and purgatory.
Heaven is the most blessed abode reserved for three classes of persons:--1st, Those Old Testament
saints whose spirits were detained in custody until Christ arose, when they were led out by
Him in triumph; 2nd, Those who in this life attain to perfection in holiness; and 3rd, Those
believers in Christ, who, having died in a state of imperfection, have made satisfaction for
their sins and receive cleansing through endurance of the fires of purgatory. Hell is the abode
of endless torment, where heretics and all who die in mortal sin suffer eternally. Purgatory
is supposed to complete the atonement of Christ. His work delivers from original sin and eternal
punishment, but satisfaction for actual transgression is not complete until after the endurance
of temporal punishments and the pains of purgatory. The Church of Rome claims the right to
prescribe the nature and extent of such punishments, and having devised a complicated system
of indulgences, penances, and masses, professes to hold the Keys of Heaven and to possess authority
to regulate penalties and obtain pardon for the living and the dead. Such claims are unfounded
and false. God alone can forgive sin, and He recognises only two classes--the righteous and
the wicked--here and hereafter; and only two everlasting dwelling-places--heaven and hell.
The Romanist doctrine has no authority in Scripture, but is of heathen origin, being derived
from the Egyptians through the Greeks and Romans, and having been current throughout the Roman
Empire. Its effect has been the aggrandisement and enrichment of the papal priesthood and the
subjection of the people. It contradicts the Word of God, which declares that there is no condemnation
to the believer in Christ Jesus; that he hath eternal life; that for him to depart is to be
with Christ, to enjoy unalloyed, unending blessedness. Universalists reject the Atonement,
and say that God always punishes men for their sins. The wicked must expect to suffer in the
next world, but the mercy of God will follow them, the punishment endured will in time effect
deliverance, and the result will finally be the restoration of all to purity and happiness.
They thus maintain with regard to all, what Romanists hold respecting those who pass to purgatory,
and both are to be answered in the same way. He thus denied the perfect manhood of Christ,
and in support of His doctrine appealed to the fact that the Scripture says,[127] "The Word
(in Greek, Logos) was made flesh," "God was manifest in the flesh," while it is never said
that He was made spirit. He sought to establish a connection between the Divine Logos and human
flesh of such a kind that all the attributes of God passed into the human nature and all the
human attributes into the Divine, while both together merged in one nature in Christ, who,
being neither man nor God, but a mixture of God and man, held a middle place. His heresy found
many supporters, though it was promptly met by Gregory Nazianzen, who showed that the term
"flesh" is used in Scripture to denote the whole human nature, and that when Christ became
incarnate He took upon Him the complete nature of humanity, untainted by sin. Only thus could
He be qualified to become man's Saviour, for only a perfect man can be a full and complete
Redeemer. Man's spirit, his most noble element, stands in need of redemption as well as his
body, for all its faculties are corrupted by sin.

In affirming that Jesus descended into hell, this clause of the Creed declares that He possessed
the complete nature of humanity; that His true body died, and that His reasonable soul departed
to Hades.

SECTION 2.--THE THIRD DAY HE ROSE AGAIN FROM THE DEAD[128]

On the morning of the first day of the week, thenceforth hallowed as the Lord's Day--the Christian
Sabbath--the soul of Jesus left Hades, and once more and for ever entered the body, and formed
with it the perfected humanity of the "Word made flesh." The resurrection of Jesus is a well-attested
fact of history. The close-sealed, sentinelled sepulchre, the broken seal, the stone rolled
away, the trembling guard, the empty tomb, and the many appearances of Jesus to the women,
the disciples, the brethren, and last of all to Saul of Tarsus, prove that He had risen.[129]

The Resurrection was a fulfilment of Old Testament prophecy.

The Apostles had not grasped the statements of Christ in such a way as to lead them to look
with confidence for His return, or to gather hope of His resurrection. On the contrary, they
did not expect His resurrection, and, when they heard of it, they could not believe it to be
real.[133] Yet, convinced by the evidence of their own senses, they came to hold it fast as
the fact that crowned all their hopes in life and death. Although the preaching of "Jesus and
the Resurrection" exposed them to persecution and martyrdom, they nevertheless continued to
proclaim a risen Lord. "If Christ is not risen," says Paul, "then is our preaching vain, and
your faith is also vain,"[134] and he goes on to admit that if the Resurrection had not taken
place, he was altogether mistaken in the view of God's character set forth in his preaching
and epistles. Peter makes a similar statement: "We are begotten again unto a lively hope by
the resurrection of Jesus Christ."[135] It is His victory over death that confirms the truth
of His claims. Not only did he preach this as the central doctrine of Christianity; he maintained
it at the cost of all that, before his conversion, he had held dear. He was not a man to give
his faith to such a doctrine without overwhelming evidence of its truth. As Saul of Tarsus
he had been in the fullest confidence of the Jewish rulers, and knew all that they could urge
against the reality of the Resurrection, but their arguments had no weight with one who had
seen the risen Lord on the way to Damascus.

The importance of the Resurrection of Christ as an argument for the Divine origin of Christianity
is recognised alike by those who receive and by those who reject it. Negative criticism has
assailed the doctrine and has devised ingenious theories to explain on natural grounds the
testimony on which it is received. The diversity of such explanations goes far to refute them,
and their utter failure to account for the marvellous effects which the appearances of the
risen Jesus produced on the witnesses, or for the place which the doctrine held in their teaching,
has tended rather to establish than to discredit the reality of the Resurrection.

Various sceptical theories, to which much importance was attached for a time, are now almost
forgotten. The Mythical theory fails to account for the immediate effect produced by belief
in the Resurrection. Myths require time for their growth and development, but the disciples
of Jesus set the Resurrection in the forefront from the very first. On the day of Pentecost
Peter sounded the keynote of Apostolic preaching when he declared, "This Jesus hath God raised
up, whereof we all are witnesses." The historical fact not only rests upon the most irresistible
evidence; it is the very corner-stone of the whole fabric of Gospel teaching.

Another view of the testimony for the Resurrection has found advocates who claim that it explains,
without having recourse to supernaturalism, the belief of the disciples and others in the doctrine.
With some minor differences of detail, they agree in attributing the persistency of those who
said that they had seen Jesus alive, to the impression produced on them by His wonderful personality.
This, they hold, was so strong that the effect continued after His death, and the disciples
saw visions of Him so vivid that they believed them to be real appearances. He had filled so
much of their lives while He was with them, that they were unable to realise His departure,
and retained His image in their hearts continually. Exalted and excited feeling projected His
figure so that they saw Him apparently restored to life.

A theory such as this will not stand, in the face of the evidence for the Resurrection. It
was no subjective impression, but the Saviour Himself, that brought conviction to the minds
of the numerous witnesses. It was no apparition, it was a body that they saw and handled and
tested and proved to be of flesh and blood. They heard their Master speak, and saw Him eat;
and at frequent intervals for forty days He showed Himself to them. Sometimes He was seen by
one, sometimes by many; and before His ascension He charged them to carry on the work He had
committed to them: to feed His sheep, to feed His lambs, to go into all the world and preach
the Gospel to every creature. It was now possessed of spiritual qualities, suddenly appearing,
suddenly vanishing; now felt to be made of flesh and bones, and now passing through closed
doors, or walking upon water. It was no longer subject to natural law as it had been before
the Resurrection; and when the disciples beheld the Lord, they had not only proof of His continued
existence, of His being God as well as man, and of God's seal having been set upon His atoning
work,--they had also an intimation of what life hereafter will be for His followers, who shall
be like Him, for they shall see Him as He is.

How full and widespread was the belief in the Resurrection of Jesus in the hearts of those
who were its witnesses, is apparent not only from the fact that the great theme of their preaching
was "Jesus and the resurrection," but is also evident from the importance they attached to
the Lord's Day and the Lord's Supper. These institutions have a direct connection with the
Resurrection, the former having been substituted for the Jewish Sabbath expressly on the ground
that on that day the Lord rose; the latter, while it commemorates His death, sets forth also
His resurrection life.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTICLE 6

He ascended into heaven, and sitteth on the right hand of
    God the Father Almighty

Forty days after His resurrection Jesus charged the Apostles, in the last words He is known
to have spoken on earth, to testify of Him throughout the world, and assured them that they
should receive power through the descent of the Holy Spirit. "If he were on earth," says the
author of the Epistle to the Hebrews, "he should not be a priest."[143] No part of His work
would have corresponded to that of the high priest, who, when he had offered up sacrifice,
passed into the holy place with the blood of the victim, and laid it upon the altar. The act
thus foreshadowed in the type was accomplished when our great High Priest passed into the heavens,
and "entered not into the holy places made with hands, which are the figure of the true; but
into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us."[144]

The Ascension took place in open day and in the sight of the Apostles. "While they beheld,
he was taken up."[145] That they might be witnesses of the fact, it was necessary that they
should see Him go up from earth. Unlike the Ascension, the Resurrection of Christ took place
unseen by mortal eye. Eye-witnesses of His rising from the dead were not needed. The fact that
they had seen Jesus after He rose qualified them to be witnesses of His Resurrection, but it
was only because they had seen Him taken up that they could bear personal testimony to His
Ascension.

Thus our Lord "ascended into heaven, and sitteth on the right hand of God the Father Almighty."
This Article expresses the honour and dignity of His Person and character. To sit on the right
hand is an honour reserved for the most favoured.[146] When the Scriptures speak of the right
hand of God, it is meant that, as the right hand among men is the place of honour, power, and
happiness, so to sit on the right hand of God is to obtain the place of highest glory, power,
and satisfaction.

At God's right hand our Lord entered into everlasting and perfect glory and dominion. Being
one with the Father, all that is the Father's is His. He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour,
having an eternal life and all the fulness of the Godhead dwelling in Him bodily. The Father
Himself gave Him the place at His right hand, having highly exalted Him and given Him a name
which is above every name. None can dethrone Him or successfully plot against His kingdom.
No weapon, carnal or spiritual, can ever prevail against Him. It is this that gives to Christianity
its stability and power, for Christianity is Christ Himself sitting at the right hand of God.
The ascended Christ exercises absolute authority and unlimited dominion. The Father on whose
right hand the Son sits is, in this clause, as in that which stands at the beginning of the
Creed, termed the "Father Almighty." Though the distinction is not apparent in the English
version of the Creed, "Almighty" in the original Greek is in these clauses expressed by two
different words. In the earlier clause, the word so rendered signifies God's supreme, universal
dominion, while here the word employed denotes the fact that His power and operation are always
efficacious and irresistible, and that all things are under His absolute control. This word
"Almighty" warrants the belief which the clause declares, that the Son, sitting on the right
hand of the Father, possesses absolute and universal power, and that in executing His office
as Mediator none can resist or oppose Him.

The word "sitteth" is expressive not so much of the attitude as of the settled and continuous
character of Christ's exaltation. At God's right hand in heaven He executes the offices of
Prophet, Priest, and King, as He did on earth. The prophet, as teacher of the revealed truth,
held office in Old Testament times; and when Jesus entered on His public ministry, it was as
a Divinely-accredited teacher that He claimed to be received. He brought out of His treasury
things new and old, and exhorted men to hear, believe, and obey Him. By His words and His life,
He made known the will of God for man's salvation; and when He was lifted up upon the cross,
it was to the end that, by the sacrifice He offered and the truth He taught, He might draw
all men unto Him. He brought life and immortality to light, and since His departure He has
not ceased to be the Teacher and the Guide of all who receive Him. His word abides with us,
and His first gift to the Church after He rose was the Holy Ghost, who came to lead men to
all truth. Our Lord does not indeed now appear in visible form, speaking face to face with
men as He did in Palestine, but He speaks in and through every believer who in His name seeks
to win souls for His Kingdom. The functions of the Jewish high priest were not limited to the
offering of sacrifice. When he had made an end of offering, he carried the blood of the victim
into the Holy Place and made intercession for the sins of the congregation. As the mediator
between God and His people, he thus foreshadowed the work of Him who is a "priest for ever,
after the order of Melchizedek,"--succeeding none, and being succeeded by none, in His priestly
office. As the high priest's work was partly without and partly within the Holy Place, so Christ's
priestly work is twofold, consisting of His satisfaction for sin upon earth and His intercession
in heaven. "Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us." He was once offered to bear the sins
of many, thereby satisfying Divine justice and reconciling men to God. After having as our
great High Priest offered the sacrifice of Himself, He passed into the heavens. There He makes
continual intercession for us.

At the right hand of God He exercises kingly prerogatives also. He was anointed to the royal
office at His baptism, when the Holy Ghost descended on Him.[149] When by death He overcame
him who had the power of death; when He rose from the grave and announced to His disciples
that all power was given Him in heaven and earth, He asserted His kingly office; and when God,
having raised Him from the dead, set Him at His own right hand in heavenly places, far above
all principalities, and powers, and might, and dominion, and every name that is named, not
only in this world, but also in that which is to come, all things were put under His feet,
He was given to be Head over all things to the church,[150] and received dominion and glory
and a kingdom. He must reign until all His enemies are under His feet. "To which of the angels
said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool?"[151]

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTICLE 7

From thence He shall come to judge the quick and the dead

This clause of the Creed points to the future. As those who saw Jesus ascend stood gazing up,
two heavenly messengers in white apparel appeared and said to them, "This same Jesus, which
is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into
heaven."[152] Jesus Himself often warned the disciples that the time was at hand when He should
leave them and return to His Father, but that His departure was not to be final, for He would
come again to gather all nations before Him, and to judge the quick and the dead. He comforted
them by the statement that His going away was expedient for them. "I go to prepare a place
for you." "I will come again, and receive you unto myself."[153] But the return was not to
be only for the reception of the faithful into His kingdom and glory, but for judgment upon
all mankind. "Of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father
only."[156] The first Christians looked for it with joyous expectation, believing that their
Lord and Master would speedily appear and redress their wrongs. In his second Epistle to the
Thessalonians Paul set himself earnestly to counteract their teaching. He indignantly repudiated
the doctrine attributed to him, apparently in connection with a forged epistle, and he supplied
a test by which the genuineness of his letters might be proved.

The mistake of the Thessalonians has often been repeated. Attempts have been made to fix the
time of the Lord's second coming, and the work of predicting goes on busily still. Enthusiasts
and impostors have been more or less successful in finding credulous followers. Again and again
the progress of time has falsified such predictions, but would-be prophets have not been discouraged
by the blunders of their predecessors.

All men, quick and dead, are to be brought before the Judgment-seat, the faithful that they
may be raised to everlasting blessedness, and the wicked to be dismissed to everlasting punishment.
Paul describes the events of the great day of Christ's appearing as it will affect the saints.
In Matthew xxv. we have a series of images, in which the terrors of the "great day of the Lord"
are set forth. The virgins that go out to meet the Bridegroom, the servants with their talents,
the Judge dividing all brought before Him as a shepherd divideth the sheep from the goats,
are warnings of the certainty and severity of judgment, and of the doom reserved for the ungodly.

"The Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son."[162] As God, He
has all things naked and open before Him. As man, He became subject to human conditions, and
was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Our Judge knows our frame, our temptations,
our weakness, our difficulties; and in the Judgment, as in His life on earth, He will not break
the bruised reed, or apply to men's conduct a harsher measure than they have merited. Judgment
will begin at the house of God, and sentence on the ungodly will be severe in proportion to
knowledge, privilege, and opportunity. Men will be judged by their works, and in this doctrine
of Scripture there is no opposition to that of justification by faith. Men cannot be justified
by their own works, but if Christ be in them and the Spirit of God dwell in their hearts, then,
being dead to sin, they follow holiness. The distinction between the children of God and the
children of the devil is this, that the former class bring forth the fruits of righteousness,
and the latter the fruits of sin. "There is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; and
hid, that shall not be known."[164] The just shall be rewarded, not on account of their good
works, but because of the atonement and righteousness of Christ; yet their works will be the
test of their sanctification and the proof that they are members of Christ and regenerated
by His Spirit.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTICLE 8

I believe in the Holy Ghost

The eighth article of the Creed declares belief in the third Divine Person--the Holy Ghost.

The words "I believe," implied in every clause, are here repeated, to mark the transition from
the Second to the Third Person of the Trinity.

While this doctrine underlies all the teaching of the Old Testament Scriptures, it was yet
in a measure not understood or realised by the Jews, and as Christ came to make known the Father,
so to Him we owe also the full revelation of the Holy Spirit. Prophets and Psalmists had glimpses
of the doctrine, but they lived in the twilight, and saw through a glass darkly many truths
now clearly made known.

While we speak freely of spiritual life, our conception of it is so vague that we are apt to
overlook, or to regard lightly, the work of the Holy Spirit in redemption. The disciples of
John, whom Paul met at Ephesus, believed in Jesus and had been baptized, and yet they told
the Apostle that they had not so much as heard whether there was any Holy Ghost.[165] John
tells us that even while Jesus was on earth the Holy Ghost was not yet given, because that
Jesus was not yet glorified.[166]

That the Holy Ghost is a Person, and not, as some hold, a mere energy or influence proceeding
from the Father, or from the Father and the Son, is apparent from the passages of Scripture
which refer to Him. An energy has no existence independent of the agent, but this can not be
maintained with reference to the Holy Ghost. He is associated as a Person with Persons. In
the baptismal formula and in the apostolic benediction the Holy Spirit is spoken of in the
same terms as the Father and the Son, and is therefore a Person as they are Persons. He is
said to possess will and understanding. He is said to teach, to testify, to intercede, to search
all things, to bestow and distribute spiritual gifts according to His will.

The Holy Ghost addresses the Father, and is therefore not the Father. He intercedes with the
Father, and so is not a mere energy of the Father. Jesus promised to send the Spirit from the
Father, but the Father could not be sent from or by Himself. It is said that the Spirit when
He came would not speak of Himself--a statement that cannot apply to the Father; and while
Christ promised to send the Spirit, He did not promise to send the Father.

The Holy Ghost is not the Son, for the Son says He will send Him. He is "another Comforter,"
who speaks and acts as a person. The Holy Ghost said, "Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the
work where-unto I have called them."[167]

The arguments for the distinct personality of the Holy Ghost prove also that He is God. The
baptismal formula and the apostolic benediction assume His Divinity. The words of Christ with
reference to the sin against the Holy Ghost imply that He is God, and Peter affirms this doctrine
when, having accused Ananias of lying to the Holy Ghost, he adds, "Thou hast not lied unto
men, but unto God."[168] Paul also asserts it when, in arguing against sins of the flesh, he
affirms that the body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, and also declares of it that the temple
of GOD is holy. Divine properties are ascribed to the Holy Spirit. Thus Omnipotence is attributed
to Him--"The Spirit shall quicken your mortal bodies",[169] Omniscience--"The Spirit searcheth
all things",[170] Omnipresence--"Whither shall I go from thy Spirit?"[171] Divinity is attributed
to the third Person in the statement that "holy men of God spake as they were moved by the
Holy Ghost,"[172] taken in connection with the other statement, "all Scripture is given by
inspiration of God."[173]

Jesus was conceived by the Holy Ghost, and, because of this, though born of a woman, He was
in His human nature the Son of God. The Father gave the Son, and accepted Him as man's Sinbearer
and Sacrifice; the Son gave Himself, and assumed human nature that He might suffer and die
in the room and stead of sinners, and the Holy Ghost applies to men the work of redeeming love,
taking of the things of Christ and making them known,[175] till they produce repentance, faith,
and salvation. The Father's gift of the Son and the Son's sacrifice of Himself are of the past;
the work of the Holy Spirit has gone on day by day, ever since the risen and glorified Redeemer
sent Him to make His people ready for the place which He is preparing for them. It is through
Him that we understand the Scriptures, and receive power to fear God and keep His commandments.
He comes to human hearts, and when He enters He banishes discord and bestows happiness and
peace. Then with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and the fruits of the Spirit are
manifested in his life. The love of the Father and the redemption secured by the Son's Incarnation
and Passion fail to affect us if we have not our share in the Spirit's sanctification. There
is a sense in which the Holy Ghost comes nearer to us, if we may so speak, than the other Persons
of the Godhead. If we are true believers, the Holy Ghost is enthroned in our hearts. "He dwelleth
with you, and shall be in you."[176] Our bodies become the temples of the Holy Ghost.[177]
It is through Him that the Father and the Son come and make their abode in the faithful.[178]
We are made "an habitation of God through the Spirit."[179] "If any man have not the Spirit
of Christ, he is none of his."[180] When we consider the work He carries on in convicting men
of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment, and in converting, guiding, and comforting those
whom He influences, we can understand that it was expedient for us that Christ should go away,
in order that the Comforter might come.[181] If we are receiving and resting on Jesus as our
Saviour, then His Spirit is within us as the earnest of our inheritance.[182] His presence
imparts power such as no spiritual enemy can resist. How different were the Apostles before
and after they had received the gift of the Spirit! One of them who, before, denied Christ
when challenged by a maid, afterwards proclaimed boldly in the presence of the hostile Jewish
council, "We ought to obey God rather than men."[183] Those who, when He was apprehended, had
forsaken Him and fled, gathered courage to brave kings and rulers as they preached salvation
through Him. The disciples, who, in accordance with Christ's injunction, awaited the descent
of the Spirit, were on the day of Pentecost clothed with power before which bigotry and selfishness
passed into faith and charity and self-surrender; and there was won on that day for the Church
a triumph such as the might of God alone could have secured--a triumph which the ministry of
the Spirit, whenever it is recognised and accepted, is always powerful to repeat and to surpass.

All good comes to man through the Spirit. Every inspiration of every individual is from Him,
the Lord and Giver of light, and life, and understanding. Every good thought that rises within
us, every unselfish motive that stimulates us, every desire to be holy, every resolve to do
what is right, what is brave, or noble, or self-sacrificing, comes to man from the Holy Ghost.
He is instructing and directing us not only on special occasions, as when we read the Bible
or meet for worship, but always, if we will listen for His voice. His personal indwelling in
man, as Counsellor and Guide, is the fulfilment of the promise--"I will dwell in them, and
walk in them." "He will guide you into all truth" is an assurance of counsel and victory that
is ever receiving fulfilment, and that cannot be broken.[184]

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTICLE 9

The Holy Catholic Church, the Communion of Saints

SECTION 1.--THE HOLY CATHOLIC CHURCH

In the clause of the Creed which expresses belief in Jesus Christ, He is called our Lord "And
in Jesus Christ our Lord." That He is their Lord is declared by believers, when they term the
society of which they are members "the Church." This word is derived from the Greek kurios,
Lord, in the adjectival form kuriakos, of or belonging to the Lord--the Scottish word "kirk"
being therefore a form nearer the original than the equivalent term Church. The Greek word
translated "church" occurs only three times in the Gospels. In English the word is used in
different senses, all of them, however, pointing to the Lord Jesus as their source and sanction.
By "church," we sometimes mean a building set apart for Christian worship. The Jew had his
Tabernacle in the Wilderness, his Temple at Jerusalem, and his Synagogue in the Provinces;
the Mohammedan has his Mosque, and the Brahmin his Pagoda; but the Christian has his Church,
in whose very name his Lord is honoured. Sometimes the word denotes the Christians of a specified
city or locality--the Church at Ephesus, the Church at Corinth. Sometimes it is limited to
a number of Christians meeting for worship in a house, as in Romans xvi. 5 and in Philemon.[185]
Sometimes "Church" denotes a particular denomination of Christians, as the Presbyterian Church,
the Episcopal Church. Sometimes it expresses the distinctive form which Christianity assumes
in a particular nation--the Church of England, the Church of Scotland. In the Creed the Holy
Catholic Church means the whole body of believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, all who anywhere
and everywhere are looking to Him for salvation, and are bringing forth the fruits of holiness
to His praise and glory.

The Lord Jesus Christ did not, during His ministry, set up a Church as an outward organisation.
He was Himself to be the Church's foundation; but in order to be qualified for this office
it was necessary that He should first lay down His life. The work of building and extending,
in so far as it was to be effected by human agency, must be undertaken by others after His
departure. He came to fulfil the law, and so He was not sent save to the lost sheep of the
house of Israel. He worshipped, accordingly, in the Jewish temple and synagogues, observed
the sacraments and festivals of the Old Testament Church, and during His earthly ministry bade
His disciples observe and do whatsoever the men who sat in Moses' seat commanded. "The faithful
saying, worthy of all acceptation," with which the Christian Church was to be charged as God's
message to the world, was not yet published, for Christ had still to suffer and enter into
His glory, and the Holy Ghost had yet to be sent by the Father before the standard of the Church
could be set up. While the Church rests on Christ, it is founded upon His Apostles also, to
whom He committed the work for which He had prepared them, and for which He was still further
to qualify them by bestowing power from on high. The gifts which He received for men when He
ascended were needed to equip them for the work of founding that Church, which became a possibility
only through His death and resurrection. Applying to them the redemption purchased by Christ,
the Holy Ghost wrought in and with them, and crowned their labours with success. The Christian
Church was set up on the day of Pentecost, when the Holy Ghost came down upon a band of believers
assembled at Jerusalem waiting for the promise of the Father. Under His inspiration Peter preached
the first Christian sermon with such power that the same day there were added unto the Church
three thousand souls.

The Church is termed the Holy Catholic Church. When the epithet "holy" is applied to the Church,
it is not meant that all who profess faith in Jesus Christ and are in connection with the visible
Church, are holy, or that any of them are altogether holy. Our Lord taught that while in the
world His Church would contain a mixture of good and bad. He likened it to a net in which good
and bad fishes are caught, and to a field in which wheat and tares grow together. Though all
are called to be saints, "there is not a just man upon earth that doeth good, and sinneth not."[186]
The sanctification of believers is the work of the Holy Spirit, effected not by a momentary
act but by degrees, and never perfected in this life.

Upon all who truly receive the Lord Jesus a change is wrought by the Holy Spirit of God, which
results in holiness. Looking unto Jesus, they behold as in a glass the glory of the Lord, and
are changed into the same image. The transformation which they undergo extends to every part
of their being. The subject of sanctification is the whole man. The understanding, will, conscience,
memory, affections are all renewed in their operations, and the members of the body become
instruments of righteousness unto holiness. As believers are enabled to die unto sin, they
live unto righteousness. Being renewed in the inner man by the Divine Spirit, they bring forth
the fruits of the Spirit. Their desire is after holiness, for they know that the restoration
of holiness is the end for which Jesus died and for which the Spirit works. When her period
of work and probation is accomplished she will be purged and perfected, and will be a church
without spot or wrinkle. Meantime she is the Holy Church because her Head is holy, and because
she is called out of the world and consecrated to the service of God. She is holy because she
is the body of Christ, of whose fulness she receives, and whose graces she reflects, and because
it is through her teaching, prayers, and institutions that the Holy Spirit usually works and
influences men to follow holiness. The ministry, the preaching, the sacraments, the laws, and
the discipline of the Church have as their end the turning of men from their sins and persuading
them to follow holiness.

The Christian Church is a Catholic Church. The word "Catholic" means universal, and implies
that, unlike the Jewish Church, which was narrow and local, requiring admission to earthly
citizenship as the condition of receiving spiritual privilege, the Church of Christ is coextensive
with humanity, and accessible to all. The Master's charge was that the Gospel should be preached
to every creature. The Church's field is the world, and her commission sets before her as a
duty that she shall go into all the world bearing the glad tidings of salvation. The disciples
did not at first realise this comprehensiveness of the new faith. Even after his address on
the day of Pentecost, Peter had not risen above his Jewish prejudices.

The unity of the Catholic Church is quite compatible with the existence of separate organisations
that differ in regard to details of government or worship. There is no outward organisation
which possesses a monopoly of Christian truth and privilege. While all who "hold the Head"
stand fast in one spirit, they are not all enrolled as members of one ecclesiastical body,
or subject to the authority of one earthly ruler. Their citizenship is in heaven; not in Rome
or in any city of this world. The claim asserted by the Bishops of Rome to be infallible representatives
of Christ and exclusive possessors of the keys of the kingdom of heaven, to whom all men owe
allegiance, and whose decrees and discipline cannot be questioned without sin, has no support
in Scripture, which, while it enjoins unity of spirit, never prescribes uniformity of organisation.

What the Romanist claims for the Pope is virtually claimed for the Church by some who reject
Papal authority. By the Church they mean one visible body of Christians under the same ecclesiastical
constitution and government, and they maintain that the right to expound with authority the
will of God is vested in this body, and that private judgment must be subordinated to its decisions.
To constitute the Church they say there must be bishops at its head, ordained by men whose
ecclesiastical orders have come down from apostolic times in unbroken succession. Without this
apostolical succession, it is affirmed, there can be no Church, no true ordination, no valid
or effectual administration of sacraments.

Such a definition of the Catholic Church excludes from participation in the ordinary means
of grace the whole body of Presbyterians, nearly all the Protestant Churches of Europe, and
all who refuse to admit direct transmission of orders from the Apostles as a primary condition
of the Church's existence. Carried to its logical conclusion, it would exclude even those who
maintain it; for all attempts to trace back a continuous and complete series of ordinations
from modern times to the apostolic age fail to show an unbroken line. It is therefore not possible
for any bishop or minister in Christendom to be certain that, in this sense, he is a successor
of the Apostles. The Catholic Church is not exclusively Episcopalian or Presbyterian or Congregational.
It is found in all Christian communities, and maintains its identity in all. The right of private
judgment, asserted and secured by the Scottish Reformers, is one which we are not only entitled
but bound to exercise. We must search the Scriptures for ourselves, that in their light we
may prove all things and hold fast that which is good. A famous saying of Ignatius, who first
applied the term "Catholic" to the Church, supplies the true description of a living church--"Wherever
Jesus Christ is, there is the Catholic Church."[192]

SECTION 2.--THE COMMUNION OF SAINTS

This article appears to have first found place in the Creed as a protest against the tenets
of a sect called the Donatists, from Donatus their leader. He seceded (314 A.D.) from the Christian
Church in North Africa, carrying with him numerous followers, and set up a new church organisation,
claiming for it place and authority as the only Church of Christ. Circumstances put powers
of excommunication and persecution at his disposal, which he directed against those who refused
to become his followers.

Augustine was for a time a Donatist, but his truth-loving spirit soon discovered the real character
of Donatus, and then he became his active and uncompromising opponent. It was probably as a
protest against the arrogance of the Donatists, and in deference to Augustine's wish, that
the clause was inserted. In this profession it is declared that the Holy Catholic Church is
one not in virtue of outward forms, or even through perfect agreement among its members upon
all details of doctrine, but because of the holiness of those who compose it. It refuses to
excommunicate any who hold fast the form of sound words, and who adhere to one Lord, one faith,
one baptism, one God and Father of all. It is a brotherhood of which all who have the spirit
of Christ are members. Differences in colour, or country, or rank do not suffice to separate
those who are "the body of Christ and members in particular." The spirit of Christian fellowship
that marks the saints finds fitting expression in the noble words of Augustine, "In things
essential, unity; in things doubtful, liberty; in all things, charity."

The primary meaning of the word "saint" is a person consecrated or set apart. In this sense
all baptized persons who are professing members of the Church of Christ are saints. In the
New Testament the whole body of professing Christians resident in a city or district are called
saints, although some among them may have been unworthy; just as in the Old Testament the prophets
even in degenerate times termed the people of Israel an "holy nation," that is, a nation separated
from the rest of the world and consecrated to God's service. Thus we read that Peter visited
the saints which dwelt at Lydda.[193] Paul speaks of a collection for the poor saints at Jerusalem,
and writes letters to all the saints in Achaia,[194] to all the saints in Christ Jesus at Philippi,
and to the saints at Ephesus; and Jude speaks of the faith once delivered to the saints. In
these passages the title is applied to all who were in outward fellowship with the Christian
Church.

The term "saint" is used also in a more restricted sense. As they were not all Israel who were
of Israel, and as not every one that saith "Lord, Lord" shall enter into the kingdom of heaven,
so all who are enrolled as members of the Christian Church do not lead saintly lives, and those
only are truly saints who are striving to live godly in Christ Jesus, and to be holy, even
as He who hath called them is holy. This clause of the Creed expresses the doctrine that Christians
ought to have fellowship one with another, and that there ought to be harmonious relations
and stimulating communion between their several churches and congregations--such fellowship
and communion as may lead the world to believe that they are one in Christ, and that, though
compelled by circumstances to assemble in different places and to form separate societies,
they are, nevertheless, all members of one body, of which Jesus Christ is the Head; all stones
in one building, of which He is the chief Corner-stone; all branches in one true vine, of which
He is the Stem; and all animated and directed by the same Spirit. Thus regarded, the clause
is a protest against the exclusiveness which often marks Christian churches, and is a recognition
of the spirit of charity.

The extent of this Communion of the Saints is not revealed. Much of it is spiritual, and is
therefore invisible to us. God alone marks in full measure the fellowship of the churches,
and is acquainted with the character and conduct of all their members. He knew the seven thousand
in Israel who had never bowed the knee to Baal, and the real, though unrecognised, communion
they had with one another in their common fidelity and prayer to Him; but Elijah did not know
how much true fellowship he had, when he denounced the idolatries of Jezebel and pleaded with
God for Israel. The ignorance of the prophet, who thought he was the only faithful Israelite,
has its counterpart in our own times. God knows, but we do not know, how many faithful saints
there are in the world who are in fellowship with one another because they are in fellowship
with Him. We are excluded by many barriers from the knowledge of our brethren and sisters in
Christ Jesus. Natural and moral difficulties stand in the way, hindering this knowledge; differences
in language, in environment, in habits and modes of thought, and other limitations, disable
us for truly gauging the character of those with whom we are brought into close contact. Communion
is nevertheless real and true. The members of the Church of the living God, however they may
be scattered and divided, have communion and fellowship with the Father, the Son, and the Holy
Ghost; and being in fellowship with God, they are of one mind, and are knit together by common
faith and mutual sympathy. They are all one with the same Head, and they have all one hope
of their calling.

Our Lord brought life and immortality to light, and taught men that between the Church militant
and the Church triumphant there is indissoluble fellowship. Those who followed holiness in
this life are saints still in the life to which they have passed. In the Epistle to the Hebrews,
believers are told that they "are come to the general assembly and church of the firstborn,
which are written in heaven ... and to the spirits of just men made perfect."[195]

While the clause was probably inserted at first to vindicate the doctrine of communion of saints
in this life, it has long been regarded as extending to a communion subsisting between the
spirits of just men made perfect and followers of the Lord Jesus Christ who are still on earth.
The passage last quoted justifies the inference that death does not suspend the fellowship
which believers in Jesus Christ have with Him, their common Lord. Death separates the soul
from the body, but it does not cut off the dead from communion with the Father or the Son.
He who is the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob is the God not of the dead, but of the
living. Of the whole family of the saints, some are in heaven and some on earth, and, between
those who are there and those who are here, there is communion. Since the heavenly Church received
Abel as its first member, there has been unceasing fellowship between militant and glorified
saints. Those who are here are shut out by the tabernacle of the body from personal intercourse
with the souls of the departed, but are yet in a fellowship with them that is very real and
precious. The holy dead act upon the living, and, it may be, are reacted upon in ways we do
not understand. Of Abel we are told that "being dead, he yet speaketh."[196] Those whom death
has taken do not cease to exert an influence on the lives of friends left behind. Their example,
their good deeds, their writings, the undying consequences of what they did while on earth
affect us. The veil which death interposes between us and them hinders us from witnessing their
spirit life, and we know not whether, or in what measure, or how, they contemplate us. We do
not go to them to ask them to intercede for us with the Father, for we believe there is but
one Mediator between God and man. We do not invest them with attributes which belong to God
alone; all that we are warranted to say about their relation to us is, that what is revealed
does not forbid, but rather encourages, the thought that they are interested in us and concerned
for our happiness. If the angels rejoice over the conversion of a sinner, are we to think that
the spirits of just men made perfect are strangers to this joy? They are within the veil, we
cannot see them, but we know they are in communion with God. The condition of the departed
saints is one of waiting as well as of progress. They have not attained to fruition. There
are doctrines which to them, as to us, are still matters not of experience but of faith and
hope. The souls of the martyrs seen by John under the altar were in a state of expectation,
desiring and pleading as when in the flesh they had desired and pleaded for the consummation
of Messiah's kingdom; and from them the Apostle heard the cry ascend, "How long, O Lord?"[197]
Saints here and saints who have passed through the valley into the unseen must surely hold
many beliefs in common. Both alike believe the promises of God, and anticipate the glorious
consummation for which they wait and watch, when the kingdoms of this world shall become the
kingdoms of the living God. They believe in the resurrection of the body and in its reunion
with the soul for ever. They have common affections. Their love is given to the same God. They
have community of worship, and have communion in thanksgiving, praise, and, may we not say,
in prayer for the overthrow of the kingdom of darkness and the advent of the kingdom of glory?
As those who are still in the body keep the New Testament feast, they feel that there is fellowship
between them and saints departed, seeing that they honour the same Saviour, glory in the same
cross, partake of the same heavenly food, and look for the same inheritance of perfect blessedness.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTICLE 10

The Forgiveness of Sins

The Creed acknowledges God as the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth; but there is
another relation which He sustains to His creatures besides those of Creator and Father. In
Scripture He is represented as the King, Ruler, Governor of the universe, who imposes laws
upon all His creatures, and requires of them scrupulous obedience. With the exception of man,
the visible creatures have these laws, from which they cannot swerve, within their constitutions.
The planet never deviates from its appointed orbit; the insect, the bird, the beast all live
in strict accordance with their instincts; but, unlike them, man possesses freedom of will
and power of choice. This freedom, if rightly exercised, is a noble possession, but, perverted,
it is an instrument of destruction. The lower animals cannot sin because the law of their lives
is within them, constraining them to act in accordance with its dictates. Upon man, free to
choose, God imposed law. With freedom of will he received the gift of conscience, which, enabling
him to distinguish between right and wrong, invested him with responsibility, and made disobedience
sin. That he can sin is his patent of nobility, that he does sin is his ruin and disgrace.

The effect of sin is separation from God, who can have no fellowship with evil, for sin is
the abominable thing which He hates, and on which He cannot even look. A breach, altogether
irreparable on man's part, was made between man and his Creator when the first transgression
of the law of God took place. The impulse of every sinner, which only Divine power can overcome,
is to flee from God. Hence arises the necessity for reconciliation, and for the intervention
of God to effect it. That the unity thus broken may be restored, expiation must be made by
one possessing the nature of the being that had sinned, and yet, by His possession of the Divine
nature, investing that expiation with illimitable worth, so that all sin may be covered, and
every sinner find a way of escape from the power and the penal consequences of transgression.
These conditions meet in the Lord Jesus Christ and in Him alone. That God might, without compromising
His attributes, be enabled to bring man back into fellowship with Himself, He spared not His
own Son, and the Son freely gave Himself to suffering and death for the world's redemption.

In the felt necessity of atonement, which has associated sacrifice with every religion devised
by man, we have evidence of the universality of sin. All feel its crushing pressure, and fear
the punishment which, conscience assures them, is deserved and inevitable. The heathen confesses
it as he prostrates himself before the image of his god, or immolates himself or his fellow-man
upon his altar; and the Christian feels and confesses it as, fleeing for refuge, he finds pardon
and cleansing in the blood of Jesus Christ.

Sin is original or actual, the former inherited from our parents, the latter, personal transgression
of the Divine law. Every man descending from Adam by ordinary generation is born with the taint
of original sin. As the representative head of humanity, Adam transmitted to all his descendants
the nature that his sin had polluted. The fountain of life was poisoned at its source, and
when Adam begat children they were born in his likeness. "Death reigned ... even over them
that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression." "By one man's disobedience
many were made sinners."[198]

Actual sin consists in breaking any law of God made known to us by Scripture, conscience, or
reason. It assumes many forms. There are sins of thought, of word, of deed; sins of commission,
or doing what God forbids; of omission, or leaving undone what God commands; sins to which
we are tempted by the world, the flesh, or the devil; sins directly against God; sins that
wrong our neighbours, and that ruin ourselves; sins of pride, covetousness, lust, gluttony,
anger, envy, sloth. In many things we sin, and "If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves,
and the truth is not in us."[199]

Man's sinfulness is set forth in Scripture by a great variety of figures. The word rendered
"sin" means the missing of a mark or aim. Sin is sometimes described as ignorance, sometimes
as defeat, sometimes as disobedience. The definition of the Shorter Catechism is clear and
comprehensive. "Sin is any want of conformity unto, or transgression of, the law of God."[200]
The taint of original sin, extending to man's whole nature, inclines him to act in opposition
to the law of God, and every concession to his corrupt desire, in thought, word, or deed, is
actual sin. Because of it he is not subject to the law of God, neither, indeed, can be.

Sin is always spoken of in Scripture as followed by punishment or by pardon. There is no middle
way. Salvation for man must therefore involve deliverance from condemnation.

The word which expresses man's liability to punishment is "guilt," and only a religion which
makes known how he may be set free from guilt will suit his necessities. We cannot set ourselves
free from condemnation. There is nothing in nature or in human experience to warrant hope of
pardon. Nature never forgives a trespass against her law. The opportunity that is lost does
not return. The mistake by which a life is marred cannot be undone. The constitution shattered
by intemperance cannot be restored, the birthright bartered for a mess of pottage is gone for
ever, and no bitter tears or supplications have power to bring it back. Whether we repent of
it or not, every sin we commit leaves its dark mark behind, and in this life at least the stain
can never be effaced; and yet we believe in the forgiveness of sin through the grace of God.

The forgiveness of sin is a free gift purchased by "the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin
of the world," who by His Cross and Passion obtained for men this unspeakable benefit, and
commanded that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in His name among all nations.[202]

In order that the grace of God may bring salvation, it is required that there shall be (a)
Repentance. "Godly sorrow for sin worketh repentance to salvation."[206] (b) Before the good
gift of God can be received, it is necessary that we confess our sin. It is when we confess
our sins that we obtain forgiveness and cleansing. "If we confess our sins, he is faithful
and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness."[207] To produce
conviction and confession is the work of the Holy Ghost. He reveals to the sinner the sinfulness
of his life, and so works in him repentance. (c) Another requirement is unfeigned faith. "He
that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently
seek Him." The forgiveness secured by the death of Jesus is more than mere deliverance from
the penalty of sin or the acquittal of the sinner. It is the remission of sins, the putting
away of the sin. With pardon there is a renewal of the inner man. Return to holiness is secured,
and the lost image of God is restored to man, so that he dies to sin and lives unto holiness.
In Old Testament times the hope of immortality for body and soul seldom found expression. Isaiah
prophesied, "Thy dead men shall live, my dead body shall arise. Another of the brothers, about
to have his tongue plucked out and his hands cut off, "holding forth his hands manfully, said
courageously, These I had from heaven ... and from Him I hope to receive them again." Their
mother, who is thought to have been one of the saints that in the Epistle to the Hebrews are
said to have been tortured, not accepting deliverance, encouraged her sons to be faithful unto
death by telling them that God who had given them life at the first would restore it. The belief
expressed by Martha when she said of her brother Lazarus, "I know that he shall rise again
in the resurrection at the last day,"[217] was in all likelihood current in her time. It may
have been to impress the truth of resurrection-life for the body that Enoch, before the flood,
and Elijah, in later Old Testament times, were translated; but it is in the New Testament,
in words spoken by the Lord Jesus, that resurrection is fully revealed. He showed His power
over the dead body, and furnished assurance of resurrection, by raising the dead. He thus restored
the daughter of Jairus and the son of the widow of Nain, and raised Lazarus from the tomb four
days after he had died. In His own resurrection we have the most signal pledge of our bodily
immortality. When He arose triumphant from the grave and showed Himself alive by many infallible
proofs, He manifested His power as the conqueror of death.

It is clearly taught in Scripture that there is to be a general resurrection of the righteous
and the wicked. "If we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be
also in the likeness of his resurrection."[227]

Christianity teaches that the body as well as the soul is redeemed by the Lord Jesus Christ,
"the Saviour of the body."[228] We are called to glorify God in our bodies, which are temples
of the Holy Ghost, and we must give account for the deeds done in and through the body, as
well as for those sins which are rather of the mind and will than of the body. The body will
be raised and will be judged. God will bring to light all hidden things--actions forgotten
by ourselves, deeds of which the world knows nothing, as well as those which memory retains
and the world knows of. Before that "great and notable day" our bodies as well as our souls
must have been purged, else we shall never see God. The bodies of the unjust will rise; but
theirs will be resurrection to shame and everlasting contempt.

It is fitting that reward or punishment should be the portion of the same souls and bodies
that have been faithful or unfaithful. Christ rose in the same body as He had before His death,
and so shall we. How this is to be accomplished we cannot tell, but with God all things are
possible, and faith rests with confidence in His power and in His Word. Christ will renew the
bodily as well as the spiritual nature of His people. Every part of their being will be transformed,
and their bodies, like Christ's, will be spiritual bodies. Every act we do affects it, not
for the time only, but for ever. The lost soul will assume the polluted body, and while it
may shrink in horror from the union, will find no way of escape. "He that is filthy, let him
be filthy still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still."[231] "Whatsoever a man soweth
that shall he also reap,"[232] and the harvest will abide with him for ever.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTICLE 12

And the Life Everlasting

The great truth affirmed in the concluding article of the Creed is the Life Everlasting: "The
wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life."[233] This life will be the portion
of all who are acquitted in the day of judgment, and they will then enter upon new experiences.
Death and hell shall be cast into the lake of fire, and the redeemed, no longer subject to
imperfection, decay, or death, shall be raised to the right hand of the Father, where there
is fulness of joy; to partake of those pleasures for evermore which have been purchased for
them by the blood of the Lamb.

It is interesting to note the gradual development of this doctrine, which was first fully expressed
by Him who brought life and immortality to light. We have the statement of the writer to the
Hebrews that the faith of Old Testament saints had in view the continuance of life after death
in "a better country, that is, an heavenly." Whether this faith grasped the doctrine of bodily
resurrection, in addition to that of the immortality of the soul, we are not told. It is remarkable
that throughout the books of Moses there is an absence of reference to the future life as a
motive to holy living. Prosperity and adversity in this life are set forth as the reward or
punishment of conduct, leading to the inference, either that retribution in the future life
was not revealed, or that it exercised little practical influence. As time passed the doctrine
of everlasting life for body and soul emerged in the Psalms and in the prophetical writings,
but sometimes side by side with such gloomy views regarding death and its consequences as to
leave the impression that belief in it was weak and fitful. In the long period that passed
between the time when Old Testament prophecy ceased and the advent of Christ, the fierce persecutions
to which the Jews were subjected appear to have strengthened their faith in a future life of
blessedness, in which the body, delivered from the grave and again united to the soul, shall
participate.

The author of the Apocryphal Book termed The Wisdom of Solomon thus records his belief:--

    The souls of the righteous are in the hand of God,
    And no torment shall touch them.
    In the eyes of the foolish they seemed to have died;
    And their departure was accounted to be their hurt,
    And their journeying away from us to be their ruin,
    But they are in peace.
    For even if in the sight of men they be punished,
    Their hope is full of immortality:
    And having borne a little chastening they shall receive great good;
    Because God made trial of them, and found them worthy of Himself.
    As gold in the furnace He proved them,
    And as a whole burnt offering He accepted them.
    And in the time of their visitation they shall shine forth,
    And as sparks among stubble they shall run to and fro.
    They shall judge nations, and have dominion over peoples;
    And the Lord shall reign over them for evermore.
    They that trust in Him shall understand truth,
    And the faithful shall abide with Him in love;
    Because grace and mercy are to His chosen.[234]

Again he writes:--

    The righteous live for ever,
    And in the Lord is their reward,
    And the care for them with the Most High.
    Therefore shall they receive the crown of royal dignity
    And the diadem of beauty from the Lord's hand.[235]

The happiness of the kingdom of heaven is in Scripture termed "life," because it constitutes
the life for which man was created. Being made in the likeness of God, his nature can obtain
full satisfaction, and his powers will expand into fruition, only when he enters upon a life
which resembles, in proportion to its measure and capacity, the life of God. Jesus spoke of
regeneration as entering into life. Those who receive the Gospel message and walk in the footsteps
of Christ are said to be born again--to receive in their conversion the beginning of a new
existence, of which the entrance of the infant into the world is a fitting emblem. They possess
now not only a natural life, but a life hid with Christ in God, which is a pledge to them that
"when he who is their life shall appear, they also shall appear with him in glory."[236] Knowledge
of God the Father and of Jesus Christ, imparted by the Holy Spirit, is said by our Lord to
be Life Eternal. The Father created man and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life,
that he might glorify God and enjoy Him for ever; and when, through the fall, man had forfeited
the gift of life, God spared not His own Son, that, through His dying, pardon and blessed life
might be brought within the reach of the fallen; the Son assumed human nature and suffered
and died, that He might deliver men from death, temporal and eternal, and procure for them
everlasting life; the Holy Ghost, the Giver of life, sanctifies the believer and makes him
meet for the inheritance of the saints. All the means of grace were given for the purpose of
convincing and converting men, and of preparing them for entrance into and enjoyment of the
blessed life in eternity.

The Everlasting Life of the Creed covers more than the immortality of the soul. Even heathens
grasped in some measure the fact that the spirit of man survives separation from the body;
but life for the body in reunion with the soul is a doctrine of revelation. In the Pagan world
various conflicting beliefs were held as to the condition of men after death. Some thought
that existence terminated at death; others that men then lost their personality and were absorbed
into the deity; and others that the spirit was released by death and then entered on a separate
existence, possessed of personality and capable of enjoyment; but of the Christian doctrine
of resurrection-life for soul and body in abiding reunion they were altogether ignorant. Those
consolations which Christianity brings to the mourner were unknown. There is an interesting
letter extant which was written to Cicero, the Roman orator, by a friend who sought to comfort
him after the death of his daughter Julia, in which the consolation tendered strikingly marks
the distinction between Pagan and Christian views regarding death. Cicero was reminded by his
friend that even solid and substantial cities, such as those whose ruined remains were to be
seen in Asia Minor, were doomed to decay and destruction; and if so, it could not be thought
that man's frail body can escape a similar experience. This is poor comfort in comparison with
the hope of glory which sustains the Christian under trial. He knows not only that his soul
shall live for ever, but that the life of eternity is one in which the body too, then incapable
of pain, weariness, or death, shall have part. Attempts have been made to explain away various
emphatic Scripture statements regarding the doom of the ungodly, with the view of lessening
its terrors; but, if we are to accept the plain meaning of these statements, there seems to
be no reasonable interpretation of them which gives sanction to the belief that this doom can
be escaped.

What is called the doctrine of Conditional Immortality finds not a few advocates and adherents,
who hold that existence in the future state is exclusively for the faithful, and that the sentence
to be executed upon the wicked at death or at judgment is annihilation. A different belief,
termed "The Larger Hope," is maintained by others, who affirm that the punishment to which
those dying impenitent are to be subjected will in time work reformation and cleansing, after
which, restored to God's favour, they will enter upon a life of happiness.

It is a strong argument against such doctrines that the same word which our Lord employs to
describe the permanent blessedness of the redeemed is used by Him to denote the punishment
of the wicked. The reward and the punishment are both declared by Him to be everlasting or
eternal. The same Greek word is in the English New Testament sometimes rendered eternal and
sometimes everlasting. The portion of the righteous will be life--life everlasting; that of
the wicked is described as consisting, not in annihilation or in terminable suffering, but
in "everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power."[239]

While this article may be regarded as bearing upon the doom of the ungodly, it is rather to
be viewed as affirming the eternal blessedness of the risen saints. The everlasting life begins
on earth, but is perfected only in eternity. Human words cannot describe it; human beings in
this life cannot understand it. We know that it will arise from knowledge of God. Men will
be equal to the angels who see God. "Now we see through a glass darkly,"[242] but "we know
that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is."[243]

Statements regarding the happiness of the saints are in Scripture expressed sometimes in negative
and sometimes in positive terms. Care and anxiety shall be banished for ever, and God will
wipe away all tears from every eye.

There are also many positive statements regarding the future life. Not only will there be the
absence of all that is painful and productive of sorrow; those for whom it is prepared shall
enter into rest. They shall possess abiding peace, and the joy of their Lord will become their
own. Their bodies shall be like Christ's own glorious body, which, when transfigured on Tabor,
shone as the sun, and was white as the light. They shall be satisfied, when they awake, with
the Divine likeness.[246] "They shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and as the
stars for ever and ever."[247] They shall sit down with Christ upon His throne, and shall be
rulers over cities. "They are as the angels of God in heaven."[248] In the many mansions of
the Father's house there will be a place for every saint. Each will be rewarded according to
his works. Some are to be raised to higher glory than others--some are to have authority over
ten cities, and some are to bear rule over five--but all the saints will be happy in the eternal
enjoyment of God's favour, which is life; and of His loving kindness, which is better than life.

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX

The, following arrangement is from Professor Lumby's History of the Creeds. It shows that the
portions of the Apostolic Creed which do not appear in the earlier forms are very few. Irenaeus
omits the conception by the Holy Ghost, while Tertullian inserts it. Neither Creed contains
the first part of the fifth article, and in both the ninth and tenth are wanting. With these
exceptions the substance of the Apostles' Creed was in circulation as early as A.D. 180.

THE APOSTLES' CREED.        CREEDS OF ST. IRENAEUS      CREEDS OF TERTULLIAN
                            (A.D. 180).                 (A.D. 200).

1. I believe in God the     I believe in one God,       I believe in one God,
Father Almighty, Maker      the Father Almighty, who    the Creator of the
of heaven and earth:        made heaven and earth;      world, who produced all
                                                        out of nothing ...

2. And in Jesus Christ      And in one Christ Jesus,    And in the Word His Son
His only Son our Lord,      the Son of God [our         [Jesus Christ],
                            Lord],

3. Who was conceived by     Who was made flesh [of      Who through the Spirit
the Holy Ghost, born of     the Virgin];                and Power of God the
the Virgin Mary,                                        Father descended into
                                                        the Virgin Mary, was
                                                        made flesh in her womb,
                                                        and born of her;

4. Suffered under           And in His suffering        Was fixed on the cross Pontius Pilate,
was         [under Pontius Pilate];     [under Pontius Pilate]; crucified, dead, and      
was dead and buried; buried,

5. He descended into        And in His rising from      Rose again the third hell; the third
day He      the dead;                   day; rose again from the dead,

6. He ascended into         And in His ascension in     Was taken into heaven, heaven, and
sitteth on      the flesh;                  and sat down at the the right hand of God     
right hand of God; the Father Almighty;

7. From thence He shall     And in His coming from      He will come to judge
come to judge the quick     heaven ... that He may      the wicked to eternal
and the dead.               execute just judgment on    fire.
                            all.

8. I believe in the Holy    And in the Holy Ghost.      And in the Holy Spirit
Ghost;                                                  sent by Christ. And the                 and to adjudge the          the restoration of the
Life Everlasting.           impious and unjust ...      flesh, receive His holy
                            to eternal fire, and to     ones into the enjoyment
                            give to the just and        of life eternal and the
                            holy immortality and        promises of heaven.
                            eternal glory.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRANSCRIBER'S CHANGES:--

Footnote 016 amended from "1 Peter iii. 1." to "1 Peter iii. 15."

Footnote 198 amended from "1 Rom v. 19" to "Rom v. 19"

Footnote 243 amended from "2 John iii. 2" to "1 John iii.2."

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES

[Footnote 001: John xi. 25, 26.]

[Footnote 002: Matt, xxviii. 20.]

[Footnote 003: 1 Cor. xv. 1-4.]

[Footnote 004: Rom. vi. 17.]

[Footnote 005: Gal. vi. 16.]

[Footnote 006: 1 Tim. vi. 20.]

[Footnote 007: 2 Tim. i. 13, 14.]

[Footnote 008: See Appendix]

[Footnote 009: Rom. x. 10.]

[Footnote 010: Rom. x. 17.]

[Footnote 011: Heb. xi. 3.]

[Footnote 012: Table-Talk, 1852, p. 144.]

[Footnote 013: 1 John v. 9.]

[Footnote 014: Heb. xi. 6.]

[Footnote 015: Heb. xi. 6.]

[Footnote 016: 1 Peter iii. 15.]

[Footnote 017: See Handbook of Christian Evidences, Principal Stewart, chap. i.]

[Footnote 018: Deut. vi. 4.]

[Footnote 019: Gen. i. 26; iii. 22; xi. 7. Different views have been taken of these passages.
Some commentators think the plural forms represent the plural of majesty. There is, however,
no indication in the Old Testament or in ancient monumental inscriptions that sovereigns had
adopted this style of speech. Nebuchadnezzar and Darius begin their proclamations with the
singular first personal pronoun "I"; not with the plural "We" which modern kings assume. On
the Moabite stone Mesha uses "I," not "We," throughout the inscription in which he records
his achievements. Another view is that Moses, accustomed to hear of the numerous gods of Egypt,
used the plural inadvertently. This supposition does not accord with any view of inspiration
held by evangelical churches. The interpretation which regards the passages as early indications
of the doctrine of the Trinity is simple and natural, and accords with the principle of gradual
revelation which is apparent in Scripture.]

[Footnote 020: Job xi. 7.]

[Footnote 021: Deut. xxix. 29.]

[Footnote 022: John x. 30.]

[Footnote 023: John xvii. 5.]

[Footnote 024: See Hodge's Systematic Theology, vol. i. p. 444.]

[Footnote 025: Psalm lxxvi. 10.]

[Footnote 026: Rom. viii. 28.]

[Footnote 027: Rom. i. 20.]

[Footnote 028: Confessions, Bk. x. chap. vi.]

[Footnote 029: Luke ii. 34.]

[Footnote 030: Acts viii.]

[Footnote 031: 2 Tim. ii. 17.]

[Footnote 032: 2 Tim. i. 15.]

[Footnote 033: See Landmarks of Church History, by Professor Cowan, D.D., p. 16.]

[Footnote 034: Isaiah ix. 6.]

[Footnote 035: Matt. i. 21.]

[Footnote 036: Col. iv. 11.]

[Footnote 037: Matt. xxi. 11.]

[Footnote 038: Matt. i. 23.]

[Footnote 039: Acts iv. 12.]

[Footnote 040: Phil. ii. 9-11.]

[Footnote 041: John i. 41.]

[Footnote 042: John iv. 29.]

[Footnote 043: Matt. xvi. 16, 17.]

[Footnote 044: Acts xviii. 28.]

[Footnote 045: John ix. 22.]

[Footnote 046: Psalm xlv. 7; Heb. i. 9.]

[Footnote 047: John xx. 31.]

[Footnote 048: Psalm ii. 7.]

[Footnote 049: Isaiah ix. 6.]

[Footnote 050: John i. 1, 14 (R.V.).]

[Footnote 051: Heb. i. 1-3.]

[Footnote 052: John i. 49.]

[Footnote 053: John xi. 27.]

[Footnote 054: John viii. 58.]

[Footnote 055: Prov. viii. 22, 30.]

[Footnote 056: Matt. xxvi. 63; Mark xiv. 61.]

[Footnote 057: Matt. xxvi. 65, 66.]

[Footnote 058: Matt. xxviii. 6.]

[Footnote 059: John xx. 2.]

[Footnote 060: 1 Cor. xi. 23.]

[Footnote 061: 1 Cor. viii. 6.]

[Footnote 062: Matt. xxviii. 18.]

[Footnote 063: Matt. xi. 27.]

[Footnote 064: John iii. 35.]

[Footnote 065: Phil. ii. 9-11.]

[Footnote 066: Acts x. 36.]

[Footnote 067: Rev. xvii. 14.]

[Footnote 068: Isaiah xxvi. 13.]

[Footnote 069: Ques. 22.]

[Footnote 070: Mark i. 1.]

[Footnote 071: Mark i. 11.]

[Footnote 072: John i. 1-3.]

[Footnote 073: Isaiah vii. 14.]

[Footnote 074: See The Origin and Connection of the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and
The Voyage and Shipwreck of St. Paul, by Mr. Smith of Jordanhill.]

[Footnote 075: Luke i. 29, ii. 19, 51.]

[Footnote 076: Vol. i. p. 376.]

[Footnote 077: John xix. 26, 27]

[Footnote 078: John v. 31]

[Footnote 079: Col. iii. 11.]

[Footnote 080: Acts x. 35.]

[Footnote 081: 1 Cor. i. 23.]

[Footnote 082: Pearson On the Creed, vol. i. p. 337.]

[Footnote 083: 1 Peter iii. 18.]

[Footnote 084: Isaiah liii. 5. In this chapter, which all the earlier Jewish authorities understood
to refer to Messiah, there are no fewer than eleven expressions which clearly describe the
vicarious character of these sufferings. See Speaker's Commentary, in loco.]

[Footnote 085: Luke xii. 50.]

[Footnote 086: John xii. 33.]

[Footnote 087: Matt. xx. 28; xvii. 22; xxvi. 2; John x. 11.]

[Footnote 088: John x. 17.]

[Footnote 089: Isaiah liii. 7.]

[Footnote 090: Matt. xxii. 29.]

[Footnote 091: Luke xxiv. 25, 26.]

[Footnote 092: Matt. ii. 13-15.]

[Footnote 093: John i. 11; John vii. 5; Heb. xii. 3.]

[Footnote 094: Matt. xxvi. 39.]

[Footnote 095: Heb. ii. 10.]

[Footnote 096: Heb. iv. 15.]

[Footnote 097: Gal. iii. 13.]

[Footnote 098: Heb. ix. 22.]

[Footnote 099: 1 Cor. xv. 3.]

[Footnote 100: Rev. v. 6.]

[Footnote 101: Matt. xxvi. 26, 28.]

[Footnote 102: Rom. v. 10.]

[Footnote 103: Col. i. 14.]

[Footnote 104: John x. 17, 18.]

[Footnote 105: 1 Peter ii. 24.]

[Footnote 106: Rom. v. 9.]

[Footnote 107: Rom. iii. 25, 26.]

[Footnote 108: Rom. v. 18, 19.]

[Footnote 109: Rev. i. 18.]

[Footnote 110: Isaiah liii. 8, 9.]

[Footnote 111: Deut. xxi. 22, 23.]

[Footnote 112: John xix. 31.]

[Footnote 113: Mark xv. 46.]

[Footnote 114: Luke xxiii. 53 (R.V.).]

[Footnote 115: Matt. xxvii. 63, 64.]

[Footnote 116: Matt. xxvii. 65, 66.]

[Footnote 117: Luke xvi. 19-26.]

[Footnote 118: Mark xv. 37.]

[Footnote 119: Luke xxiii. 46.]

[Footnote 120: Ques. 50.]

[Footnote 121: Heb ii. 17.]

[Footnote 122: John iii. 13.]

[Footnote 123: Heb. ix. 27.]

[Footnote 124: S.C. Ques. 37.]

[Footnote 125: 1 Peter ii. 24.]

[Footnote 126: Heb. x. 14, 26, 27.]

[Footnote 127: John i.; 1 Tim. iii.]

[Footnote 128: See Principal Stewart's Handbook of Christian Evidences, chap. vi.]

[Footnote 129: Jesus appears to have shown Himself during the forty days after His Resurrection
at least ten times, viz.--

1. To Mary Magdalene, Mark xvi. 9; John xx. 11-18.

2. To two disciples, Mark xvi. 12; Luke xxiv. 13-32.

3. To Peter on same day, Luke xxiv. 34; Cor. xv. 5.

4. To ten Apostles, Thomas only being absent, John xx. 19-25.

5. To all the Apostles, Mark xvi. 14; John xx. 26-29; 1 Cor. xv. 7.

6. To the women at the sepulchre, Matt, xxviii. 9, 10.

7. To the Apostles, and at this time probably to five hundred others, on a mountain in Galilee,
Matt, xxviii. 16-20; 1 Cor. xv. 6.

8. To seven disciples at Tiberias, John xxi. 1-24.

9. To James, 1 Cor. xv. 7.

10. To the Apostles at His Ascension, Mark xvi. 15-18: Luke xxiv. 44-50; Acts i. 4-8; 1 Cor. xv. 7.

These seem to be all the appearances recorded, but there were probably many others, Acts i.
3. After His Ascension He appeared to Saul of Tarsus, Acts ix. 3-18; 1 Cor. xv. 8. He was seen
by Stephen also, Acts vii. 55, 56.]

[Footnote 130: Acts ii. 25-32.]

[Footnote 131: John ii. 19.]

[Footnote 132: John xvi. 16.]

[Footnote 133: For proof of this, see Mark xvi. 1; Luke xxiii. 56 and xxiv. 1; Luke xxiv. 11;
John xx. 9; John xx. 11-18; Luke xxiv. 13-32; Mark xvi. 13; Luke xxiv. 37, 41; John xx. 25;
Mark xvi. 14; Matt. xxviii. 17.]

[Footnote 134: 1 Cor. xv. 14.]

[Footnote 135: 1 Peter i. 3.]

[Footnote 136: Rom. i. 4.]

[Footnote 137: Acts i. 22.]

[Footnote 138: Rom. x. 9.]

[Footnote 139: Acts x. 40, 41.]

[Footnote 140: Acts i. 8.]

[Footnote 141: Matt, xxviii. 20.]

[Footnote 142: Luke xxiv. 50, 51.]

[Footnote 143: Heb. viii. 4.]

[Footnote 144: Heb. ix. 24.]

[Footnote 145: Acts i. 9.]

[Footnote 146: 1 Kings ii. 19; Psalm xvi. 11; Heb. ix. 24.]

[Footnote 147: Ephes. iv. 11, 12.]

[Footnote 148: 2 Cor. v. 20.]

[Footnote 149: Matt. iii. 16; Acts x. 38.]

[Footnote 150: Ephes. i. 22.]

[Footnote 151: Heb. i. 13.]

[Footnote 152: Acts i. 11.]

[Footnote 153: John xiv. 2, 3.]

[Footnote 154: Matt. xvi. 27.]

[Footnote 155: Rev. i. 7.]

[Footnote 156: Matt. xxiv. 36.]

[Footnote 157: Titus ii. 13.]

[Footnote 158: 1 Thess. iv. 16, 17.]

[Footnote 159: 1 Cor. xv. 51, 52.]

[Footnote 160: Acts x. 42.]

[Footnote 161: 2 Tim. iv. 1.]

[Footnote 162: John v. 22.]

[Footnote 163: Matt. xii. 35]

[Footnote 164: Matt. x. 26.]

[Footnote 165: Acts xix. 2.]

[Footnote 166: John vii. 39.]

[Footnote 167: Acts xiii. 2.]

[Footnote 168: Acts v. 4.]

[Footnote 169: Rom viii. 11.]

[Footnote 170: 1 Cor. ii. 10.]

[Footnote 171: Ps. cxxxix. 7.]

[Footnote 172: 2 Peter 1, 21.]

[Footnote 173: 2 Tim iii. 16.]

[Footnote 174: Luke i. 35.]

[Footnote 175: John xvi. 15.]

[Footnote 176: John xiv. 17.]

[Footnote 177: 1 Cor. vi. 19.]

[Footnote 178: John xiv. 23.]

[Footnote 179: Ephes. ii. 22.]

[Footnote 180: Rom. viii. 9.]

[Footnote 181: John xxi. 7.]

[Footnote 182: Ephes. i. 14.]

[Footnote 183: Acts v. 29.]

[Footnote 184: 2 Cor. vi. 16; John xvi. 13.]

[Footnote 185: See The New Testament and its Writers, by Dr. M'Clymont (Guild Library), p 123,
note 1.]

[Footnote 186: Eccles. vii. 20.]

[Footnote 187: Ephes. v. 25-27.]

[Footnote 188: Acts x. 34, 35 (R.V.).]

[Footnote 189: Ephes. ii. 20.]

[Footnote 190: Ephes. iv. 4-6.]

[Footnote 191: 1. Cor. i. 2 (R.V.).]

[Footnote 192: Epistle to Smyrna, c. 8.]

[Footnote 193: Acts ix. 32.]

[Footnote 194: 2 Cor. i. 1.]

[Footnote 195: Heb. xii. 23.]

[Footnote 196: Heb. xi. 4.]

[Footnote 197: Rev. vi. 10.]

[Footnote 198: Rom. v. 19]

[Footnote 199: 1 John i. 8.]

[Footnote 200: Ques. 14.]

[Footnote 201: Chap. ix.]

[Footnote 202: Luke xxiv. 47.]

[Footnote 203: Matt. iv. 17.]

[Footnote 204: Acts ii. 38.]

[Footnote 205: Acts v. 31.]

[Footnote 206: 2 Cor. vii. 10.]

[Footnote 207: 1 John i. 8.]

[Footnote 208: Heb. xi. 6.]

[Footnote 209: Rom. v. 1.]

[Footnote 210: James i. 6, 7 (R.V.).]

[Footnote 211: Psalm li. 10.]

[Footnote 212: Titus ii. 12.]

[Footnote 213: Job xix. 25.]

[Footnote 214: Isaiah xxvi. 19.]

[Footnote 215: Dan. xii. 2.]

[Footnote 216: 2 Maccabees, chap. vii.]

[Footnote 217: John xi. 24.]

[Footnote 218: John v. 28, 29.]

[Footnote 219: Matt. xxii. 29.]

[Footnote 220: Rev. xx. 12, 13.]

[Footnote 221: 1 Thess. iv. 15, 17 (R.V.).]

[Footnote 222: 2 Cor. v. 10.]

[Footnote 223: 1 Cor. vi. 14.]

[Footnote 224: John v. 21.]

[Footnote 225: Rom. viii. 11.]

[Footnote 226: 1 Cor. xv. 21, 22.]

[Footnote 227: Rom. vi. 5.]

[Footnote 228: Ephes. v. 23.]

[Footnote 229: Phil. iii. 20, 21 (R.V.).]

[Footnote 230: 1 Thess. v. 23.]

[Footnote 231: Rev. xxii. 11.]

[Footnote 232: Gal. vi. 7.]

[Footnote 233: Rom. vi. 23.]

[Footnote 234: Wisdom, chap. iii. 1-9 (R.V.).]

[Footnote 235: Chap. v. 15, 16 (R.V.).]

[Footnote 236: Col. iii. 4.]

[Footnote 237: John xvii. 3.]

[Footnote 238: 2 Cor. v. 1.]

[Footnote 239: 2 Thess. i. 9.]

[Footnote 240: John v. 24.]

[Footnote 241: Mark x. 30.]

[Footnote 242: 1 Cor. xiii. 12.]

[Footnote 243: 1 John iii. 2.]

[Footnote 244: Rev. vii. 16.]

[Footnote 245: Rev. xxii. 5.]

[Footnote 246: Psalm xvii. 15.]

[Footnote 247: Dan. xii. 3.]

[Footnote 248: Matt. xxii. 30.]

       *       *       *       *       *

SOME BOOKS ON THE APOSTLES' CREED OR BEARING UPON ARTICLES THEREOF

1. The History of the Apostles' Creed. Anon. 1719.

2. An Exposition of the Creed. By John Pearson, D.D., Bishop of Chester. 1820.

3. An Exposition of the Creed. By Robert Leighton, Archbishop of Glasgow. 1825.

4. The Creeds of the Church in their Relation to the Word of God. Hulsean Lecture, 1857. By
Charles Anthony Swainson.

5. Lectures in Divinity. By George Hill, D.D. Edinburgh, 1837. 4th edition.

6. The Fatherhood of God. By Thomas J. Crawford, D.D., Professor of Divinity in the University
of Edinburgh. 1867.

7. Theism, being the Baird Lecture for 1876. By Robert Flint, D.D., Professor of Divinity in
the University of Edinburgh. 1877.

8. Anti-Theistic Theories, being the Baird Lecture for 1877. By Robert Flint, D.D. 1879.

9. The Historic Faith. By B.F. Westcott, D.D., D.C.L., Bishop of Durham. 1883.

10. The Creeds of Christendom. By Philip Schaff, D.D., 1877.

11. The History of the Creeds. By J. Rawson Lumby, D.D. 1887.

12. An Exposition of the Apostles' Creed. By J.E. Yonge, M.A. 1888.

13. The Foundations of the Creed. By Harvey Goodwin, D.D., D.C.L., Bishop of Carlisle. 1889.

14. Outlines of Christian Doctrine. By the Rev. H.C.G. Moule, M.A. 1889.

15. The Faith of the Gospel. By Arthur James Mason, B.D. 1889.

16. Rudiments of Theology. By John Pilkington Norris, D.D.

17. The Creed in Scotland. By James Rankin, D.D. 1890.

18. The Apostles' Creed. Sermons by Robert Eyton. 1890.

19. Christian Theism. By C.A. Row, M.A. 1890.

20. Christianity in Relation to Science and Morals. By Malcolm MacColl, M.A. 1891.

21. Primary Convictions. By William Alexander, D.C.L., Bishop of Derry. 1893.

22. The Apostles' Creed, its Relation to Primitive Christianity. By H.B. Swete, D.D. 1894.

23. The Nicene Creed. By H.M. Thomson, M.A. 1894.

24. Dissertations on Subjects connected with the Incarnation. By Charles Gore, M.A. 1895.

25. Defence of the Christian Faith. By Professor F. Godet. 1895.

THE END

       *       *       *       *       *

