To those puny objectors against cards, as nurturing the bad passions, she would retort, that
man is a gaming animal. He must be always trying to get the better in something or other:--that
this passion can scarcely be more safely expended than upon a game at cards: that cards are
a temporary illusion; in truth, a mere drama; for we do but play at being mightily concerned,
where a few idle shillings are at stake, yet, during the illusion, we are as mightily concerned
as those whose stake is crowns and kingdoms. They are a sort of dream-fighting; much ado; great
battling, and little bloodshed; mighty means for disproportioned ends; quite as diverting,
and a great deal more innoxious, than many of those more serious games of life, which men play,
without esteeming them to be such.--

With great deference to the old lady's judgment on these matters, I think I have experienced
some moments in my life, when playing at cards for nothing has even been agreeable. When I
am in sickness, or not in the best spirits, I sometimes call for the cards, and play a game
at piquet for love with my cousin Bridget--Bridget Elia.

I grant there is something sneaking in it; but with a toothache, or a sprained ancle,--when
you are subdued and humble,--you are glad to put up with an inferior spring of action.

There is such a thing in nature, I am convinced, as sick whist.--

I grant it is not the highest style of man--I deprecate the manes of Sarah Battle--she lives
not, alas! to whom I should apologise.--

At such times, those terms which my old friend objected to, come in as something admissible.--I
love to get a tierce or a quatorze, though they mean nothing. I am subdued to an inferior interest.
Those shadows of winning amuse me.

That last game I had with my sweet cousin (I capotted her)--(dare I tell thee, how foolish
I am?)--I wished it might have lasted for ever, though we gained nothing, and lost nothing,
though it was a mere shade of play: I would be content to go on in that idle folly for ever.
The pipkin should be ever boiling, that was to prepare the gentle lenitive to my foot, which
Bridget was doomed to apply after the game was over: and, as I do not much relish appliances,
there it should ever bubble. Bridget and I should be ever playing.

A CHAPTER ON EARS

I have no ear.--

Mistake me not, reader,--nor imagine that I am by nature destitute of those exterior twin appendages,
hanging ornaments, and (architecturally speaking) handsome volutes to the human capital. Better
my mother had never borne me.--I am, I think, rather delicately than copiously provided with
those conduits; and I feel no disposition to envy the mule for his plenty, or the mole for
her exactness, in those ingenious labyrinthine inlets--those indispensable side-intelligencers.

Neither have I incurred, or done any thing to incur, with Defoe, that hideous disfigurement,
which constrained him to draw upon assurance--to feel "quite unabashed," and at ease upon that
article. I was never, I thank my stars, in the pillory; nor, if I read them aright, is it within
the compass of my destiny, that I ever should be.

When therefore I say that I have no ear, you will understand me to mean--for music.--To say
that this heart never melted at the concourse of sweet sounds, would be a foul self-libel.--"Water
parted from the sea" never fails to move it strangely. So does "In Infancy." But they were
used to be sung at her harpsichord (the old-fashioned instrument in vogue in those days) by
a gentlewoman--the gentlest, sure, that ever merited the appellation--the sweetest--why should
I hesitate to name Mrs. S----, once the blooming Fanny Weatheral of the Temple--who had power
to thrill the soul of Elia, small imp as he was, even in his long coats; and to make him glow,
tremble, and blush with a passion, that not faintly indicated the day-spring of that absorbing
sentiment, which was afterwards destined to overwhelm and subdue his nature quite, for Alice
W----n.

I even think that sentimentally I am disposed to harmony. But organically I am incapable of
a tune. I have been practising "God save the King" all my life; whistling and humming of it
over to myself in solitary corners; and am not yet arrived, they tell me, within many quavers
of it. Yet hath the loyalty of Elia never been impeached.

I am not without suspicion, that I have an undeveloped faculty of music within me. For, thrumming,
in my wild way, on my friend A.'s piano, the other morning, while he was engaged in an adjoining
parlour,--on his return he was pleased to say, "he thought it could not be the maid!" On his
first surprise at hearing the keys touched in somewhat an airy and masterful way, not dreaming
of me, his suspicions had lighted on Jenny. But a grace, snatched from a superior refinement,
soon convinced him that some being,--technically perhaps deficient, but higher informed from
a principle common to all the fine arts,--had swayed the keys to a mood which Jenny, with all
her (less-cultivated) enthusiasm, could never have elicited from them. I mention this as a
proof of my friend's penetration, and not with any view of disparaging Jenny.

Scientifically I could never be made to understand (yet have I taken some pains) what a note
in music is; or how one note should differ from another. Much less in voices can I distinguish
a soprano from a tenor. Only sometimes the thorough bass I contrive to guess at, from its being
supereminently harsh and disagreeable. I tremble, however, for my misapplication of the simplest
terms of that which I disclaim. While I profess my ignorance, I scarce know what to say I am
ignorant of I hate, perhaps, by misnomers. Sostenuto and adagio stand in the like relation
of obscurity to me; and Sol, Fa, Mi, Re, is as conjuring as Baralipton.

It is hard to stand alone--in an age like this,--(constituted to the quick and critical perception
of all harmonious combinations, I verily believe, beyond all preceding ages, since Jubal stumbled
upon the gamut)--to remain, as it were, singly unimpressible to the magic influences of an
art, which is said to have such an especial stroke at soothing, elevating, and refining the
passions.--Yet rather than break the candid current of my confessions, I must avow to you,
that I have received a great deal more pain than pleasure from this so cried-up faculty.

I am constitutionally susceptible of noises. A carpenter's hammer, in a warm summer noon, will
fret me into more than midsummer madness. But those unconnected, unset sounds are nothing to
the measured malice of music. The ear is passive to those single strokes; willingly enduring
stripes, while it hath no task to con. To music it cannot be passive. It will strive--mine
at least will--'spite of its inaptitude, to thrid the maze; like an unskilled eye painfully
poring upon hieroglyphics. I have sat through an Italian Opera, till, for sheer pain, and inexplicable
anguish, I have rushed out into the noisiest places of the crowded streets, to solace myself
with sounds, which I was not obliged to follow, and get rid of the distracting torment of endless,
fruitless, barren attention! I take refuge in the unpretending assemblage of honest common-life
sounds;--and the purgatory of the Enraged Musician becomes my paradise.

