THE NEW YORK TIMES

CURRENT HISTORY OF THE EUROPEAN WAR

JANUARY 23, 1915.

Sir John French's Own Story

The Famous Dispatches of the British Commander in Chief to Lord Kitchener, Secretary of State
for War.

I.

*First Report from the Front*

7th September, 1914.

My lord: I have the honor to report the proceedings of the field force under my command up
to the time of rendering this dispatch. This line was taken up as follows:

From Condé to Mons inclusive was assigned to the Second Corps, and to the right of the Second
Corps from Mons the First Corps was posted. The Fifth Cavalry Brigade was placed at Binche.
Gen. Sir Philip Chetwode with the Fifth Cavalry Brigade, but I directed Gen. Allenby to send
forward a few squadrons to assist in this work. The observations of my aeroplanes seemed also
to bear out this estimate. The remainder of the cavalry division, with the Nineteenth Brigade,
the whole under the command of Gen. Allenby, covered the west flank.

At this point, therefore, I propose to close the present dispatch.

II.

*The Battle of the Marne.*

17th September, 1914.

My lord: In continuation of my dispatch of Sept. 7, I have the honor to report the further
progress of the operations of the forces under my command from Aug. 28.

On that evening the retirement of the force was followed closely by two of the enemy's cavalry
columns, moving southeast from St. Quentin.

The retreat in this part of the field was being covered by the Third and Fifth Cavalry Brigades.
South of the Somme Gen. Gough, with the Third Cavalry Brigade, threw back the Uhlans of the
Guard with considerable loss.

Gen. Chetwode, with the Fifth Cavalry Brigade, encountered the eastern column near Cerizy,
moving south. The brigade attacked and routed the column, the leading German regiment suffering
very severe casualties and being almost broken up.

The Seventh French Army Corps was now in course of being railed up from the south to the east
of Amiens. On the 29th it nearly completed its detrainment, and the French Sixth Army got into
position on my left, its right resting on Roye.

The Fifth French Army was behind the line of the Oise, between La Fère and Guise.

The pursuit of the enemy was very vigorous; some five or six German corps were on the Somme,
facing the Fifth Army on the Oise. At least two corps were advancing toward my front, and were
crossing the Somme east and west of Ham. Three or four more German corps were  opposing the
Sixth French Army on my left.

This was the situation at 1 o'clock on the 29th, when I received a visit from Gen. Joffre at
my headquarters.

I strongly represented my position to the French Commander in Chief, who was most kind, cordial,
and sympathetic, as he has always been. He told me that he had directed the Fifth French Army
on the Oise to move forward and attack the Germans on the Somme, with a view to checking pursuit.
He also told me of the formation of the Sixth French Army on my left flank, composed of the
Seventh Army Corps, four reserve divisions, and Sordêt's corps of cavalry.

I finally arranged with Gen. Joffre to effect a further short retirement toward the line Compiègne-Soissons,
promising him, however, to do my utmost to keep always within a day's march of him.

In pursuance of this arrangement the British forces retired to a position a few miles north
of the line Compiègne-Soissons on the 29th.

The right flank of the German Army was now reaching a point which appeared seriously to endanger
my line of communications with Havre. I had already evacuated Amiens, into which place a German
reserve division was reported to have moved.

Orders were given to change the base to St. Nazaire, and establish an advance base at Le Mans.
This operation was well carried out by the Inspector General of Communications.

In spite of a severe defeat inflicted upon the Guard Tenth and Guard Reserve Corps of the German
Army by the First and Third French Corps on the right of the Fifth Army, it was not part of
Gen. Joffre's plan to pursue this advantage; and a general retirement to the line of the Marne
was ordered, to which the French forces in the more eastern theatre were directed to conform.

A new Army (the Ninth) had been formed from three corps in the south by Gen. Joffre, and moved
into the space between the right of the Fifth and left of the Fourth Armies.

While closely adhering to his strategic conception to draw the enemy on at all points until
a favorable situation was created from which to assume the offensive, Gen. Joffre found it
necessary to modify from day to day the methods by which he sought to attain this object, owing
to the development of the enemy's plans and changes in the general situation.

In conformity with the movements of the French forces, my retirement continued practically
from day to day. Although we were not severely pressed by the enemy, rearguard actions took
place continually.

On the 1st September, when retiring from the thickly wooded country to the south of Compiègne,
the First Cavalry Brigade was overtaken by some German cavalry. They momentarily lost a horse
artillery battery, and several officers and men were killed and wounded. With the help, however,
of some detachments from the Third Corps operating on their left, they not only recovered their
own guns, but succeeded in capturing twelve of the enemy's.

Similarly, to the eastward, the First Corps, retiring south, also got into some very difficult
forest country, and a somewhat severe rearguard action ensued at Villers-Cotterets, in which
the Fourth Guards Brigade suffered considerably.

On Sept. 3 the British forces were in position south of the Marne between Lagny and Signy-Signets.
Up to this time I had been requested by Gen. Joffre to defend the passages of the river as
long as possible, and to blow up the bridges in my front. After I had made the necessary dispositions,
and the destruction of the bridges had been effected, I was asked by the French Commander in
Chief to continue my retirement to a point some twelve miles in rear of the position I then
occupied, with a view to taking up a second position behind the Seine. This retirement was
duly carried out. In the meantime the enemy had thrown bridges and crossed the Marne in considerable
force, and was threatening the Allies all along the line of the British forces and the Fifth
and Ninth French Armies. Consequently several small outpost actions took place.

On Saturday, Sept. 5, I met the French Commander in Chief at his request, and he informed me
of his intention to take the offensive forthwith, as he considered conditions very favorable
to success.

Gen. Joffre announced to me his intention of wheeling up the left flank of the Sixth Army,
pivoting on the Marne and directing it to move on the Ourcq; cross and attack the flank of
the First German Army, which was then moving in a southeasterly direction east of that river.

He requested me to effect a change of front to my right--my left resting on the Marne and my
right on the Fifth Army--to fill the gap between that army and the Sixth. I was then to advance
against the enemy in my front and join in the general offensive movement.

These combined movements practically commenced on Sunday, Sept. 6, at sunrise; and on that
day it may be said that a great battle opened on a front extending from Ermenonville, which
was just in front of the left flank of the Sixth French Army, through Lizy on the Marne, Mauperthuis,
which was about the British centre, Courtecon, which was on the left of the Fifth French Army,
to Esternay and Charleville, the left of the Ninth Army under Gen. Foch, and so along the front
of the Ninth, Fourth and Third French Armies to a point north of the fortress of Verdun.

This battle, in so far as the Sixth French Army, the British Army, the Fifth French Army, and
the Ninth French Army were concerned, may be said to have concluded on the evening of Sept.
10, by which time the Germans had been driven back to the line Soissons-Rheims, with a loss
of thousands of prisoners, many guns, and enormous masses of transport.

About Sept. 3 the enemy appears to have changed his plans and to have determined to stop his
advance south direct upon Paris, for on Sept. 4 air reconnoissances showed that his main columns
were moving in a southeasterly direction generally east of a line drawn through Nanteuil and
Lizy on the Ourcq.

On Sept. 5 several of these columns were observed to have crossed the Marne, while German troops,
which were observed moving southeast up the left flank of the Ourcq on the 4th, were now reported
to be halted and facing that river. Heads of the enemy's columns were seen crossing at Changis,
La Ferte, Nogent, Château Thierry, and Mezy.

Considerable German columns of all arms were seen to be converging on Montmirail, while before
sunset large bivouacs of the enemy were located in the neighborhood of Coulommiers, south of
Rebais, La Ferté-Gaucher, and Dagny.

I should conceive it to have been about noon on Sept. 6, after the British forces had changed
their front to the right and occupied the line Jouy-Le Chatel-Faremoutiers-Villeneuve Le Comte,
and the advance of the Sixth French Army north of the Marne toward the Ourcq became apparent,
that the enemy realized the powerful threat that was being made against the flank of his columns
moving southeast, and began the great retreat which opened the battle above referred to.

On the evening of Sept. 6, therefore, the fronts and positions of the opposing armies were
roughly as follows:

    Allies.

    Sixth French Army.--Right on the Marne at Meux, left toward Betz.

    British Forces.--On the line Dagny-Coulommiers-Maison.

    Fifth French Army.--At Courtagon, right on Esternay.

    Conneau's Cavalry Corps.--Between the right of the British and the
    left of the French Fifth Army.

    Germans.

    Fourth Reserve and Second Corps.--East of the Ourcq and facing
    that river.

    Ninth Cavalry Division.--West of Crecy.

    Second Cavalry Division.--North of Coulommiers.

    Fourth Corps.--Rebais.

    Third and Seventh Corps.--Southwest of Montmirail.

All these troops constituted the First German Army, which was directed against the French Sixth
Army on the Ourcq, and the British forces, and the left of the Fifth French Army south of the
Marne.

The Second German Army (IX., X., X.R., and Guard) was moving against the centre and right of
the Fifth French Army and the Ninth French Army.

On Sept. 7 both the Fifth and Sixth French Armies were heavily engaged on our flank. The Second
and Fourth Reserve German Corps on the Ourcq vigorously opposed the advance of the French toward
that river, but did not prevent the Sixth Army from gaining some headway, the Germans themselves
suffering serious losses. The French Fifth Army threw the enemy back to the line of the Petit
Morin River after inflicting severe losses upon them, especially about Montceaux, which was
carried at the point of the bayonet.

The enemy retreated before our advance, covered by his Second and Ninth and Guard Cavalry Divisions,
which suffered severely.

Our cavalry acted with great vigor, especially Gen. De Lisle's brigade, with the Ninth Lancers
and Eighteenth Hussars. On both sides the enemy was thrown back with very heavy loss. The First
Army Corps encountered stubborn resistance at La Trétoire, (north of Rabais.) The enemy occupied
a strong position with infantry and guns on the northern bank of the Petit Morin River; they
were dislodged with considerable loss. Several machine guns and many prisoners were captured,
and upward of 200 German dead were left on the ground.

The forcing of the Petit Morin at this point was much assisted by the cavalry and the First
Division, which crossed higher up the stream.

Later in the day a counter-attack by the enemy was well repulsed by the First Army Corps, a
great many prisoners and some guns again falling into our hands.

On this day (Sept. 8) the Second Army Corps encountered considerable opposition, but drove
back the enemy at all points with great loss, making considerable captures.

The Third Army Corps also drove back considerable bodies of the enemy's infantry and made some
captures.

On Sept. 9 the First and Second Army Corps forced the passage of the Marne and advanced some
miles to the north of it. The Third Corps encountered considerable opposition, as the bridge
at La Ferté was destroyed and the enemy held the town on the opposite bank in some strength,
and thence persistently obstructed the construction of a bridge; so the passage was not effected
until after nightfall.

During the day's pursuit the enemy suffered heavy loss in killed and wounded, some hundreds
of prisoners fell into our hands and a battery of eight machine guns was captured by the Second
Division.

On this day the Sixth French Army was heavily engaged west of the River Ourcq. The enemy had
largely increased his force opposing them; and very heavy fighting ensued, in which the French
were successful throughout.

The left of the Fifth French Army reached the neighborhood of Château Thierry after the most
severe fighting, having driven the enemy completely north of the river with great loss.

The fighting of this army in the neighborhood of Montmirail was very severe.

The advance was resumed at daybreak on the 10th up to the line of the Ourcq, opposed by strong
rearguards of all arms. The First and Second Corps, assisted by the cavalry divisions on the
right, the Third and Fifth Cavalry Brigades on the left, drove the enemy northward. Thirteen
guns, seven machine guns, about 2,000 prisoners, and quantities of transport fell into our
hands. The enemy left many dead on the field. On this day the French Fifth and Sixth Armies
had little opposition.

As the First and Second German Armies were now in full retreat, this evening marks the end
of the battle which practically commenced on the morning of the 6th inst.; and it is at this
point in the operations that I am concluding the present dispatch.

Although I deeply regret  to have had to report heavy losses in killed and wounded throughout
these operations, I do not think they have been excessive in view of the magnitude of the great
fight, the outlines of which I have only been able very briefly to describe, and the demoralization
and loss in killed and wounded which are known to have been caused to the enemy by the vigor
and severity of the pursuit.

In concluding this dispatch I must call your Lordship's special attention to the fact that
from Sunday, Aug. 23, up to the present date, (Sept. 17,) from Mons back almost to the Seine,
and from the Seine to the Aisne, the army under my command has been ceaselessly engaged without
one single day's halt or rest of any kind.

Since the date to which in this dispatch I have limited my report of the operations, a great
battle on the Aisne has been proceeding. A full report of this battle will be made in an early
further dispatch.

It will, however, be of interest to say here that, in spite of a very determined resistance
on the part of the enemy, who is holding in strength and great tenacity a position peculiarly
favorable to defense, the battle which commenced on the evening of the 12th inst. has, so far,
forced the enemy back from his first position, secured the passage of the river, and inflicted
great loss upon him, including the capture of over 2,000 prisoners and several guns. I have
the honor to be your Lordship's most obedient servant,

(Signed.) J.D.P. FRENCH, Field Marshal, Commanding in Chief, the British forces in the field.

III.

*The Battle of the Aisne.*

8th October, 1914.

My Lord: I have the honor to report the operations in which the British forces in France have
been engaged since the evening of Sept. 10:

1. In the early morning of the 11th the further pursuit of the enemy was commenced, and the
three corps crossed the Ourcq practically unopposed, the cavalry reaching the line of the Aisne
River, the Third and Fifth Brigades south of Soissons, the First, Second and the Fourth on
the high ground at Couvrelles and Cerseuil.

On the afternoon of the 12th, from the opposition encountered by the Sixth French Army to the
west of Soissons, by the Third Corps southeast of that place, by the Second Corps south of
Missy and Vailly, and certain indications all along the line, I formed the opinion that the
enemy had, for the moment at any rate, arrested his retreat and was preparing to dispute the
passage of the Aisne with some vigor.

South of Soissons the Germans were holding Mont de Paris against the attack of the right of
the French Sixth Army when the Third Corps reached the neighborhood of Buzancy, southeast of
that place. With the assistance of the artillery of the Third Corps the French drove them back
across the river at Soissons, where they destroyed the bridges.

The heavy artillery fire which was visible for several miles in a westerly direction in the
valley of the Aisne showed that the Sixth French Army was meeting with strong opposition all
along the line.

On this day the cavalry under Gen. Allenby reached the neighborhood of Braine and did good
work in clearing the town and the high ground beyond it of strong hostile detachments. The
Queen's Bays are particularly mentioned by the General as having assisted greatly in the success
of this operation. They were well supported by the Third Division, which on this night bivouacked
at Brenelle, south of the river.

The Fifth Division approached Missy, but were unable to make headway.

The First Army Corps reached the neighborhood of Vauxcéré without much opposition.

In this manner the battle of the Aisne commenced.

2.

The tract of country above described, which lies north of the Aisne, is well adapted to concealment,
and was so skillfully turned to account by the enemy as to render it impossible to judge the
real nature of his opposition to our passage of the river or accurately to gauge his strength;
but I have every reason to conclude that strong rearguards of at least three army corps were
holding the passages on the early morning of the 13th.

3. On that morning I ordered the British forces to advance and make good the Aisne.

The First Corps and the cavalry advanced on the river. The First Division was directed on Chamouille
via the canal bridge at Bourg, and the Second Division on Courteçon and Presles via Pont-Arcy,
and on the canal to the north of Braye via Chavonne. On the right the cavalry and First Division
met with slight opposition and found a passage by means of the canal, which crosses the river
by an aqueduct. The division was therefore able to press on, supported by the cavalry division
on its outer flank, driving back the enemy in front of it.

On the left the leading troops of the Second Division reached the river by 9 o'clock. The Fifth
Infantry Brigade were only enabled to cross, in single file and under considerable shell fire,
by means of the broken girder of the bridge, which was not entirely submerged in the river.
The construction of a pontoon bridge was at once undertaken, and was completed by 5 o'clock
in the afternoon.

On the extreme left the Fourth Guards Brigade met with severe opposition at Chavonne, and it
was only late in the afternoon that it was able to establish a foothold on the northern bank
of the river by ferrying one battalion across in boats.

By nightfall the First Division occupied the area of Moulins-Paissy-Geny, with posts at the
village of Vendresse.

The Second Division bivouacked as a whole on the southern bank of the river, leaving only the
Fifth Brigade on the north bank to establish a bridge-head.

The Second Corps found all the bridges in front of them destroyed except that of Condé, which
was in possession of the enemy, and remained so until the end of the battle.

In the approach to Missy, where the Fifth Division eventually crossed, there is some open ground
which was swept by a heavy fire from the opposite bank. The Thirteenth Brigade was therefore
unable to advance; but the Fourteenth, which was directed to the east of Venizel at a less
exposed point, was rafted across, and by night established itself with its left at St. Marguérite.
They were followed by the Fifteenth Brigade; and later on both the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
supported the Fourth Division on their left in repelling a heavy counter-attack on the Third Corps.

On the morning of the 13th the Third Corps found the enemy had established himself in strength
on the Vregny plateau. The road bridge at Venizel was repaired during the morning, and a reconnoissance
was made with a view to throwing a pontoon bridge at Soissons.

The Twelfth Infantry Brigade crossed at Venizel, and was assembled at Bucy le Long by 1 P.M.,
but the bridge was so far damaged that artillery could only be man-handled across it. Meanwhile
the construction of a bridge was commenced close to the road bridge at Venizel.

At 2 P.M. the Twelfth Infantry Brigade attacked in the direction of Chivres and Vregny with
the object of securing the high ground east of Chivres, as a necessary preliminary to a further
advance northward. This attack made good progress, but at 5:30 P.M. the enemy's artillery and
machine gun fire from the direction of Vregny became so severe that no further advance could
be made. The positions reached were held till dark.

The pontoon bridge at Venizel was completed at 5:30 P.M., when the Tenth Infantry Brigade crossed
the river and moved to Bucy le Long.

The Nineteenth Infantry Brigade moved to Billy-sur-Aisne, and before dark all the artillery
of the division had crossed the river, with the exception of the heavy battery and one brigade
of field artillery.

During the night the positions gained by the Twelfth Infantry Brigade to the east of the stream
running through Chivres were handed over to the Fifth Division.

The section of the bridging train allotted to the Third Corps began to arrive in the neighborhood
of Soissons late in the afternoon, when an attempt to throw a heavy pontoon bridge at Soissons
had to be abandoned, owing to the fire of the enemy's heavy howitzers.

In the evening the enemy retired at all points and intrenched himself on the high ground about
two miles north of the river, along which runs the Chemin-des-Dames. Detachments of infantry,
however, strongly intrenched in commanding points down slopes of the various spurs, were left
in front of all three corps with powerful artillery in support of them.

During the night of the 13th and on the 14th and following days the field companies were incessantly
at work night and day. Eight pontoon bridges and one foot bridge were thrown across the river
under generally very heavy artillery fire, which was incessantly kept up on to most of the
crossings after completion. Three of the road bridges, i.e., Venizel, Missy, and Vailly, and
the railway bridge east of Vailly, were temporarily repaired so as to take foot traffic, and
the Villiers Bridge made fit to carry weights up to six tons.

Preparations were also made for the repair of the Missy, Vailly and Bourg bridges so as to
take mechanical transport.

The weather was very wet and added to the difficulties by cutting up the already indifferent
approaches, entailing a large amount of work to repair and improve.

The operations of the field companies during this most trying time are worthy of the best traditions
of the Royal Engineers.

4. On the evening of the 14th it was still impossible to decide whether the enemy was only
making a temporary halt, covered by rearguards, or whether he intended to stand and defend
the position.

With a view to clearing up the situation I ordered a general advance.

The corps was directed to cross the line Moulins-Moussy by 7 A.M.

On the right the General Officer commanding the First Division directed the Second Infantry
Brigade (which was in billets and bivouacked about Moulins), and the Twenty-fifth Artillery
Brigade (less one battery), under Gen. Bulfin, to move forward before daybreak, in order to
protect the advance of the division sent up the valley to Vendresse. An officer's patrol sent
out by this brigade reported a considerable force of the enemy near the factory north of Troyon,
and the Brigadier accordingly directed two regiments (the King's Royal Rifles and the Royal
Sussex Regiment) to move at 3 A.M. The Northamptonshire Regiment was ordered to move at 4 A.M.
to occupy the spur east of Troyon. The remaining regiment of the brigade (the Loyal North Lancashire
Regiment) moved at 5:30 A.M. to the village of Vendresse. The factory was found to be held
in considerable strength by the enemy, and the Brigadier ordered the Loyal North Lancashire
Regiment to support the King's Royal Rifles and the Sussex Regiment. Even with this support
the force was unable to make headway, and on the arrival of the First Brigade the Coldstream
Guards were moved up to support the right of the leading brigade (the Second), while the remainder
of the First Brigade supported its left.

About noon the situation was, roughly, that the whole of these two brigades were extended along
a line running east and west, north of the line Troyon and south of the Chemin-des-Dames. A
party of the Loyal North Lancashire Regiment had seized and were holding the factory. The enemy
had a line of intrenchments north and east of the factory in considerable strength, and every
effort to advance against this line was driven back by heavy shell and machine-gun fire. The
morning was wet and a heavy mist hung over the hills, so that the Twenty-fifth Artillery Brigade
and the divisional artillery were unable to render effective support to the advanced troops
until about 9 o'clock.

By 10 o'clock the Third Infantry Brigade had reached a point one mile south of Vendresse, and
from there it was ordered to continue the line of the First Brigade and to connect with and
help the right of the Second Division. A strong hostile column was found to be advancing, and
by a vigorous counterstroke with two of his battalions the Brigadier checked the advance of
this column and relieved the pressure on the Second Division. From this period until late in
the afternoon the fighting consisted of a series of attacks and counter-attacks. The counter-strokers
by the enemy were delivered at first with great vigor, but later on they decreased in strength,
and all were driven off with heavy loss.

On the left the Sixth Infantry Brigade had been ordered to cross the river and to pass through
the line held during the preceding night by the Fifth Infantry Brigade and occupy the Courteçon
Ridge, while a detached force, consisting of the Fourth Guards Brigade and the Thirty-sixth
Brigade Royal Field Artillery, under Brig. Gen. Perceval, were ordered to proceed to a point
east of the village of Ostel.

The Sixth Infantry Brigade crossed the river at Pont-Arcy, moved up the valley toward Braye,
and at 9 A.M. had reached the line Tilleul-La-Buvelle. On the line they came under heavy artillery
and rifle fire, and were unable to advance until supported by the Thirty-fourth Brigade, Royal
Field Artillery, and the Forty-fourth Howitzer Brigade and the Heavy Artillery.

The Fourth Guards Brigade crossed the river at 10 A.M. and met with very heavy opposition.
It had to pass through dense woods; field artillery support was difficult to obtain; but one
section of a field battery pushed up to and within the firing line. At 1 P.M. the left of the
brigade was south of the Ostel Ridge.

At this period of the action the enemy obtained a footing between the First and Second Corps,
and threatened to cut the communications of the latter.

Sir Douglas Haig was very hardly pressed and had no reserve in hand. I placed the cavalry division
at his disposal, part of which he skillfully used to prolong and secure the left flank of the
Guards Brigade. Some heavy fighting ensued, which resulted in the enemy being driven back with
heavy loss.

About 4 o'clock the weakening of the counter-attacks by the enemy and other indications tended
to show that his resistance was decreasing, and a general advance was ordered by the army corps
commander. Although meeting with considerable opposition and coming under very heavy artillery
and rifle fire, the position of the corps at the end of the day's operations extended from
the Chemin-des-Dames on the right, through Chivy, to Le Cour de Soupir, with the First Cavalry
Brigade extending to the Chavonne-Soissons road.

On the right the corps was in close touch with the French Moroccan troops of the Eighteenth
Corps, which were intrenched in echelon to its right rear. During the night they intrenched
this position.

Throughout the battle of the Aisne this advanced and commanding position was maintained, and
I cannot speak too highly of the valuable services rendered by Sir Douglas Haig and the army
corps under his command. Day after day and night after night the enemy's infantry has been
hurled against him in violent counter-attack, which has never on any one occasion succeeded,
while the trenches all over his position have been under continuous heavy artillery fire.

The operations of the First Corps on this day resulted in the capture of several hundred prisoners,
some field pieces and machine guns.

The casualties were very severe, one brigade alone losing three of its four Colonels.

The Third Division commenced a further advance, and had nearly reached the plateau of Aizy
when they were driven back by a powerful counter-attack supported by heavy artillery. The division,
however, fell back in the best order, and finally intrenched itself about a mile north of Vailly
Bridge, effectively covering the passage.

The Fourth and Fifth Divisions were unable to do more than maintain their ground.

5. On the morning of the 15th, after close examination of the position, it became clear to
me that the enemy was making a determined stand; and this view was confirmed by reports which
reached me from the French armies fighting on my right and left, which clearly showed that
a strongly intrenched line of defense was being taken up from the north of Compiègne, eastward
and southeastward, along the whole Valley of the Aisne up to and beyond Rheims.

A few days previously the Fortress of Maubeuge fell, and a considerable quantity of siege artillery
was brought down from that place to strengthen the enemy's position in front of us.

