104
        X MARGARET HEFFERMAN'S FAILURE                             116
       XI THE CONFIDENCE OF EMILY                                  134
      XII THE CIPHER                                               154
     XIII THE EMPTY HOUSE                                          171
      XIV IN THE OPEN                                              192
       XV CHECKMATE!                                               207
      XVI THE LIBRARY CHAIR                                        224
     XVII THE RESCUE                                               240
    XVIII THE TRAP                                                 255
      XIX THE UNSEEN LISTENER                                      272
       XX THE CREVICE                                              290
      XXI CLEARED SKIES                                            308

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                                  PAGE

  "I supposed that father was working late over some
  papers and I knew that I must not disturb him."         Frontispiece

  With the cunning of a Jimmy Valentine he manipulated
  the tumblers. Ramon Hamilton, his discomfiture
  forgotten, watched with breathless interest.                      94

  Her head was thrown back, her eyes blazing: and as she
  faced him, she slowly raised her arm and pointed a
  steady finger at the recoiling figure.                           262

THE CREVICE

CHAPTER I

PENNINGTON LAWTON AND THE GRIM REAPER

Had New Illington been part of an empire instead of one of the most important cities in the
greatest republic in the world, the cry "The King is dead! Long live the King!" might well
have resounded through its streets on that bleak November morning when Pennington Lawton was
found dead, seated quietly in his arm-chair by the hearth in the library, where so many vast
deals of national import had been first conceived, and the details arranged which had carried
them on and on to brilliant consummation.

Lawton, the magnate, the supreme power in the financial world of the whole country, had been
suddenly cut down in his prime.

The news of his passing traveled more quickly than the extras which rolled damp from the presses
could convey it through the avenues and alleys of the city, whose wealthiest citizen he had
been, and through the highways and byways of the country, which his marvelous mentality and
finesse had so manifestly strengthened in its position as a world power.

At the banks and trust companies there were hurriedly-called directors' meetings, where men
sat about long mahogany tables, and talked constrainedly about the immediate future and the
vast changes which the death of this great man would necessarily bring. In the political clubs,
his passing was discussed with bated breath.

At the hospitals and charitable institutions which he had so generously helped to maintain,
in the art clubs and museums, in the Cosmopolitan Opera House--in the founding of which he
had been leading spirit and unfailingly thereafter, its most generous contributor--he was mourned
with a sincerity no less deep because of its admixture of self-interest.

In aristocratic drawing-rooms, there were whispers over the tea-cups; the luck of Ramon Hamilton,
the rising young lawyer, whose engagement to Anita Lawton, daughter and sole heiress of the
dead financier, had just been announced, was remarked upon with the frankness of envy, left
momentarily unguarded by the sudden shock.

For three days Pennington Lawton lay in simple, but veritable state. Telegrams poured in from
the highest representatives of State, clergy and finance. Then, while the banks and charitable
institutions momentarily closed their doors, and flags throughout the city were lowered in
respect to the man who had gone, the funeral procession wound its solemn way from the aristocratic
church of St. James, to the graveyard. The last extras were issued, detailing the service;
the last obituaries printed, the final pæans of praise were sung, and the world went on its way.

During the two days thereafter, multitudinous affairs of more imperative public import were
brought to light; a celebrated murder was committed; a notorious band of criminals was rounded
up; a political boss toppled and fell from his self-made pedestal; a diplomatic scandal of
far-reaching effect was unearthed, and in the press of passing events, the fact that Lawton
had been eliminated from the scheme of things faded into comparative insignificance, from the
point of view of the general public.

In the great house on Belleair Avenue, which the man who was gone had called home, a tall,
slender young girl sat listlessly conversing with a pompous little man, whose clerical garb
proclaimed the reason for his coming. The girl's sable garments pathetically betrayed her youth,
and in her soft eyes was the pained and wounded look of a child face to face with its first
comprehended sorrow.

The Rev. Dr. Franklin laid an obsequious hand upon her arm.

"The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord."

Anita Lawton shivered slightly, and raised a trembling, protesting hand.

"Please," she said, softly, "I know--I heard you say that at St. James' two days ago. I try
to believe, to think, that in some inscrutable way, God meant it for the best when he took
my father so ruthlessly from me, with no premonition, no sign of warning. It is hard, Dr. Franklin.
I cannot coordinate my thoughts just yet. You must give me a little time."

The minister bent his short body still lower before her.

"My dear child, do you remember, also, a later prayer in the same service?"--unconsciously
he assumed the full rich, rounded, pulpit tones, which were habitual with him.

A low knocking upon the door interrupted him, and the butler appeared.

"Mr. Rockamore and Mr. Mallowe," Anita Lawton read aloud from the cards he presented. "Oh,
I can't see them now. Tell them, Wilkes, that my minister is with me, and they must forgive
me for denying myself to them."

The butler retired, and the Rev. Dr. Franklin, at the mention of two of the most prominent
and influential men in the city since the death of Lawton, turned bulging, inquiring eyes upon
the girl.

"My dear child, is it wise for you to refuse to see two of your father's best friends? You
will need their help, their kindness--a woman alone in the world, no matter how exalted her
position, needs friends. Mr. Mallowe is not one of my parishioners, but I understand that as
president of the Street Railways, he was closely associated with your dear father in many affairs
of finance. Mr. Rockamore I know to be a man of almost unlimited power in the world in which
Mr. Lawton moved. Should you not see them? Remember that you are under my protection in every
way, of course, but since our Heavenly Father has seen fit to take unto Himself your dear one,
I feel that it would be advisable for you to place yourself under the temporal guidance of
those whom he trusted, at any rate for the time being."

"Oh, I feel that they were my father's friends, but not mine. Since mother and my little sister
and brother were lost at sea, so many years ago, I have learned to depend wholly upon my father,
who was more comrade than parent. Then, as you know, I met Ramon--Mr. Hamilton, and of course
I trust him as implicitly as I must trust you. But although, on many occasions, I assisted
my father to receive his financial confrères on a social basis, I cannot feel at a time like
this that I care to talk with any except those who are nearest and dearest to me."

"But suppose they have come, not wholly to offer you consolation, but to confer with you upon
some business matters upon which it would be advantageous for you to inform yourself? Your
grief and desire for seclusion are most natural, under the circumstances, but one must sometimes
consider earthly things also." The minister's evidently eager desire to be present at an interview
with the great men and to place himself on a more familiar footing with them was so obvious
that Anita's gesture of dissent held also something of repugnance.

"I could not, Dr. Franklin. Perhaps later, when the first shock has passed, but not yet. You
understand that I like them both most cordially. Those whom father trusted must be men of sterling
worth, but just now I feel as must an animal which has been beaten. I want to creep off into
a dark and silent place until my misery dulls a little."

"You have borne up wonderfully well, dear child, under the severe shock of this tragedy. Mrs.
Franklin and I have remarked upon it. You have exhibited the same self-mastery and strength
of character which made your father the man he was." Dr. Franklin arose from his chair with
a sigh which was not altogether perfunctory. "Think well over what I have said. Try to realize
that your only consolation and strength in this hour of your deepest sorrow come from on High,
and believe that if you take your poor, crushed heart to the Throne of Grace it shall be healed.
That has been promised us. Think, also, of what I have just said to you concerning your father's
associates, and when next they call, as they will, of course, do very shortly, try to receive
them with your usual gracious charms, and should they offer you any advice upon worldly matters,
which we must not permit ourselves to neglect, send for me. I will leave you now. Mrs. Franklin
will call upon you to-morrow. Try to be brave and calm, and pray for the guidance which will
be vouchsafed you, should you ask it, frankly and freely."

Anita Lawton gave him her hand and accompanied him in silence to the door. There, with a few
gentle words, she dismissed him, and when the sound of his measured footsteps had diminished,
she closed the door with a little gasp of half relief, and turned to the window. It had been
an effort to her to see and talk with her spiritual adviser, whose hypocrisy she had vaguely felt.

If only Ramon had come--Ramon, whose wife she would be in so short a time, and who must now
be father as well as husband to her. She glanced at the little French clock on the mantel.
He was late--he had promised to be there at four. As she parted the heavy curtains, the telephone
upon her father's desk, in the corner, shrilled sharply. When she took the receiver off the
hook, the voice of her lover came to the girl as clearly, tenderly, as if he, himself, stood
beside her.

"Anita, dear, may I come to you now?"

"Oh, please do, Ramon; I have been waiting for you. Dr. Franklin called this afternoon, and
while he was here with me Mr. Rockamore and Mr. Mallowe came, but I could not see them. There
is something I feel I must talk over with you."

She hung up the receiver with a little sigh, and for the first time in days a faint suspicion
of a smile lightened her face. As she turned away, however, her eyes fell upon the great leather
chair by the hearth, and her expression changed as she gave an uncontrollable shudder. It was
in that chair her father had been found on that fateful morning, about a week ago, clad still
in the dinner-clothes of the previous evening, a faint, introspective smile upon his keen,
inscrutable face; his eyes wide, with a politely inquiring stare, as if he had looked upon
things which until then had been withheld from his vision. She walked over to the chair, and
laid her hand where his head had rested. Then, all at once, the tension within her seemed to
snap and she flung herself within its capacious, wide-reaching arms, in a torrent of tears--the
first she had shed.

It was thus that Ramon Hamilton found her, on his arrival twenty minutes later, and without
ado, he gathered her up, carried her to the window-seat, and made her cry out her heart upon
his shoulder.

When she was somewhat quieted he said to her gently, "Dearest, why will you insist upon coming
to this room, of all others, at least just for a little time? The memories here will only add
to your suffering."

"I don't know; I can't explain it. That chair there in which poor father was found has a peculiar,
dreadful fascination for me. I have heard that murderers invariably return sooner or later
to the scene of their crime. May we not also have the same desire to stay close to the place
whence some one we love has departed?"

"You are morbid, dear. Bring your maid and come to my mother's house for a little, as she has
repeatedly asked you to do. It will make it so much easier for you."

"Perhaps it would. Your mother has been so very kind, and yet I feel that I must remain here,
that there is something for me to do."

"I don't understand. What do you mean, dearest?"

She turned swiftly and placed her hands upon his broad shoulders. Her childish eyes were steely
with an intensity of purpose hitherto foreign to them.

"Ramon, there is something I have not told you or any one; but I feel that the time has come
for me to speak. It is not nervousness, or imagination; it is a fact which occurred on the
night of my father's death."

"Why speak of it, Anita?" He took her hands from his shoulders, and pressed them gently, but
with quiet strength. "It is all over now, you know. We must not dwell too much upon what is
past; I shall have to help you to put it all from your mind--not to forget, but to make your
memories tender and beautiful."

"But I must speak of it. It will be on my mind day and night until I have told you. Ramon,
you dined with us that night--the night before. Did my father seem ill to you?"

"Of course not. I had never known him to be in better health and spirits." Ramon glanced at
her in involuntary surprise.

"Are you sure?"

"Why do you ask me that? You know that heart-disease may attack one at any time without warning."

Anita sank upon the window-seat again, and leaned forward pensively, her hands clasped over
her knees.

"You will remember that after you and father had your coffee and cigars together in the dining-room,
you both joined me?"

"Of course. You were playing the piano, ramblingly, as if your thoughts were far away, and
you seemed nervous, ill at ease. I wondered about it at the time."

"It was because of father. To you he appeared in the best of spirits, as you say, but I, who
knew him better than any one else on earth, realized that he was forcing himself to be genial,
to take an interest in what we were saying. For days he had been overwrought and depressed.
As you know, he has confided in me, absolutely, since I have been old enough to be a real companion
to him. I thought that I knew all his business affairs--those of the last two or three years
at least--but latterly his manner has puzzled and distressed me. Then, while you were in the
dining-room, the telephone rang twice."

"Yes; the calls were for your father. When he was summoned to the wire he immediately had the
connection given to him on his private line, here in the library. After he returned to the
dining-room he did seem slightly absent-minded, now that I think of it; but it did not occur
to me that there could have been any serious trouble. You know, dearest, ever since the evening
when he promised to give you to me, he has consulted me, also, to a great extent about his
financial interests, and I think if any difficulty had arisen he would have mentioned it."

"Still, I am convinced that something was on his mind. I tried to approach him concerning it,
but he was evasive, and put me off, laughingly. You know that father was not the sort of man
whose confidence could be forced even by those dearest to him. I had been so worried about
him, though, that I had a nervous headache, and after you left, Ramon, I retired at once. An
hour or two later, father had a visitor--that fact as you know, the coroner elicited from the
servants, but it had, of course, no bearing on his death, since the caller was Mr. Rockamore.
I heard his voice when I opened the door of my room, after ringing for my maid to get some
lavender salts. I could not sleep, my headache grew worse; and while I was struggling against
it, I heard Mr. Rockamore depart, and my father's voice in the hall, after the slamming of
the front door, telling Wilkes to retire, that he would need him no more that night. I heard
the butler's footsteps pass down the hall, and then I rose and opened my door again. I don't
know why, but I felt that I wanted to speak to father when he came up on his way to bed."

Anita paused, and Ramon, in spite of himself, felt a thrill of puzzled wonder at her expression,
upon which a dawning look, almost of horror, spread and grew.

"But he did not come, and after a while I stole to the head of the stairs and looked down.
There was a low light in the hall and a brighter one from the library, the door of which was
ajar. I supposed that father was working late over some papers, and I knew that I must not
disturb him. I crept back to bed at last, with a sigh, but left my own door slightly open,
so that if I should happen to be awake when he passed, I might call to him.

"Presently, however, I dozed off. I don't know how long I slept, but I awakened to hear voices--angry
voices, my father's and another, which I did not recognize. I got up and by the night-light
I saw that the hands of the little clock on my dresser pointed to nearly three o'clock. I could
not imagine who would call on father so very late at night, and I feared at first it might
be a burglar, but my common sense assured me that father would not stop to parley with a burglar.
While I stood wondering, father raised his voice slightly, and I caught one word which he uttered.
Ramon, that word sounded to me like 'blackmail!' Why, what is it? Why do you look at me so
strangely?" she added hastily, at his uncontrollable start.

"I? I am not looking at you strangely, dear; it is not possible that you could have heard aright.
It must have been simply a fancy of yours, born of the state of your nerves. You could not
really have understood." But Ramon Hamilton looked away from her as he spoke, with a peculiarly
significant gleam in his candid eyes. After a slight pause he went on: "No one in the world
could have attempted to blackmail your father. He was the soul of honor and integrity, as no
one knows better than you. Why, his opinion was sought on every public question. You remember
hearing of some of the political honors which he repeatedly refused, but he could, had he wished,
have held the highest office at the disposal of the people. You must have been mistaken, Anita.
There has never been a reason for the word 'blackmail' to cross your father's lips."

"I know that I was not mistaken, for I heard more--enough to convince me that I had been right
in my surmise! Father was keeping something from me!"

"Dear little girl, suppose he had been? Nothing, of course, that could possibly reflect upon
his integrity,--don't misunderstand me--but you are only twenty, you know. It is not to be
expected that you could quite comprehend the details of all the varied business interests of
a man who had virtually led the finances of his country for more than twenty years. Perhaps
it was a purely business matter."

"I tell you, Ramon, that that man, whoever he was, actually dared to threaten father. When
I heard that word 'blackmail' in the angriest tones which I had ever heard my father use, I
did something mean, despicable, which only my culminating anxiety could have induced me to
do. I slipped on my robe and slippers, stole half-way downstairs and listened deliberately."

"Anita, you should not have done that! It was not like you to do so. If your father had wished
you to know of this interview, don't you think he would have told you?"

"Perhaps he would have, but what opportunity was he given? A few hours later, he was found
dead in that chair over there; the chair in which he sat while he was talking with his unknown
visitor."

The young man sprang to his feet. "You can't realize what you are saying; what you are hinting!
It is unthinkable! If you let these morbid fancies prey upon your mind, you will be really
ill." His tones were full of horror. "Your father died of heart-disease. The doctors and the
coroner established that beyond the shadow of a doubt, you know. Any other supposition is beyond
the bounds of possibility."

"Of heart-disease, yes. But might not the sudden attack have been brought on by his altercation
with this man? His sudden rage, controlled as it was, at the insults hurled at him?"

"What insults, Anita? Tell me what you heard when you crept down the stairs. You know you can
trust me, dear--you must trust me."

"The man was saying: 'Come, Lawton, be sensible; half a loaf is better than no bread. There
is no blackmail about this, even if you choose to call it so. It is an ordinary business proposition,
as you have been told a hundred times!'"

"'It's a damnable crooked scheme, as I have told you a hundred times, and I shall have nothing
to do with it! This is final!' Father's tones rang out clearly and distinctly, quivering with
suppressed fury. 'My hands are clean, my financial operations have been open and above-board;
there is no stain upon my life or character, and I can look every man in the face and tell
him to go where you may go now!'

"'Oh, is that so!' sneered the other man loudly. Then his voice became insinuatingly low. 'How
about poor Herbert--' His tones were so indistinct that I could not catch the name. Then he
went on more defiantly, 'His wife--' He didn't finish the sentence, Ramon, for father groaned
suddenly, terribly, as if he were in swift pain; the man gave a little sneering laugh, and
I could hear him moving about in the library, whistling half under his breath in sheer bravado.
I could not bear to hear any more. I put my hands over my ears and fled back to my room. What
could it mean, Ramon? What is this about father and some other man and his wife which the stranger
dared to insinuate! reflected upon father's integrity? Why should he have groaned as if the
very mention of these people hurt him inexpressibly?"

"I don't know, dear." Ramon Hamilton sat with his honest eyes still turned from her. "You must
have been mistaken; perhaps you even dreamed it all." Anita Lawton gave an impatient gesture.

"I am not quite the child you think me, Ramon. Could that man have meant to insinuate that
father in his own advancement had trod upon and ruined some one else, as financiers have always
done? Could he have meant that father had driven this man and his wife to despair? I cannot
bear to think of it. I try to thrust it from my thoughts a dozen times a day, but that groan
from father's lips sounded so much like one of remorse that hideous ideas come beating in on
my brain. Was my father like other rich men, Ramon? He did not live for money, although the
successful manipulation of it was almost a passion with him. He lived for me, always for me,
and the good that he would be able to do in this world."

"Of course he did, darling. No one who knew him could imagine otherwise for a moment." He hesitated,
and then added, "No one else discovered this man's presence in the house that night? You have
told no one? Not the doctor, or the coroner, or Dr. Franklin?"

"Oh, no; if I had it would have been necessary for me to have told what I overheard. Besides,
it could have had no direct bearing on daddy's death; that was caused by heart-disease, as
you say. But I believe, and I always will believe, that that man killed father, as surely,
as inevitably, as if he had stabbed or shot or poisoned him! Why did he come like a thief in
the night? Father's integrity, his honor, were known to all the world. Why did that reference
to this Herbert and his wife cause him such pain?"

"I don't know, dear; I have no more idea than you. If you really, really overheard that conversation,
as you seem convinced you did, you did well in keeping it to yourself. Let that hour remain
buried in your thoughts, as in your father's grave. Only rest assured that whatever it is,
it casts no stain upon your father's good name or his memory." He rose and gathered her into
his arms. "I must go now, Anita; I'll come again to-morrow. You are quite sure that you will
not accept my mother's invitation? I really think it would be better for you."

She looked deeply into his eyes, then drew herself gently from his clasp. "Not yet. Thank her
for me, Ramon, with all my heart, but I will not leave my father's house just yet, even for
a few days. I am sure that I shall be happier here." He kissed her, and left the room. She
stood where he had left her until she heard the heavy thud of the front door. Then, turning
to the window, she thrust her slim little hand between the sedately drawn curtains, and waved
him a tender good-by; then with a little sigh, she dropped among the pillows of the couch,
lost in thought.

"Whatever was meant by that conversation which I overheard," she murmured to herself, "Ramon
knows. I read it in his eyes."

The young man, as he made his way down the crowded avenue, was turning over in his mind the
extraordinary story which the girl he loved had told him.

"What could it mean? Who could the man have been? Surely not Herbert himself, and yet--oh!
why will they not let sleeping dogs lie; why must that old scandal, that one stain on Pennington
Lawton's past have been brought again to light, and at such a time? I pray God that Anita never
mentions it to anyone else, never learns the truth. By Jove, if any complications arise from
this, there will be only one thing for me to do. I must call upon the Master Mind."

CHAPTER II

REVELATIONS

For two days Anita wandered wraithlike about the great darkened house. The thought that Ramon
was keeping something from her--that he and her dead father together had kept a secret which,
for some reason, must not be revealed to her, weighed upon her spirits. Conjectures as to the
unknown intruder on the night of her father's death, and his possible purpose, flooded her
mind to the exclusion of all else.

In the dusk of the winter afternoon she was lying on the couch in her dressing-room, lost in
thought, when Ellen, tapping lightly at the door, interrupted her reverie.

"The minister, Miss Anita--the Rev. Dr. Franklin--he is in the drawing-room."

"Oh!" Anita gave a little movement of dismay. "Tell him that I am suffering from a very severe
headache, and gave orders that I was not to be disturbed by anyone. He means well, Ellen, of
course, but he always depresses me horribly, lately. I don't feel like talking to him this
afternoon."

The maid retired, but returned again almost immediately with a surprised, half-frightened expression
on her usually stolid face.

"Please, Miss Anita, Dr. Franklin says he must see you and at once. He seems to be excited
and he won't take no for an answer."

"Ramon!" Anita cried, springing from the couch with swift apprehension. "Something has happened
to Ramon, and Dr. Franklin has come to tell me. He may be injured, dead! Ah, God would not
do that; He would not take him from me, too!"

"Don't take on so, Miss Anita, dear," the faithful Ellen murmured, as she deftly smoothed the
girl's hair and rearranged her gown; "the little man acts more as if he had a fine piece of
gossip to pass on--fidgeting about like an old woman, he is. Begging your pardon, Miss, I know
he is the minister, of course, and I ought to show him more respect, but he forever reminds
me of a fat black pigeon."

The remarks of the privileged old servant fell upon deaf, unheeding ears. Anita, sobbing softly
beneath her breath, flew down to the drawing-room, where the pompous black-cloaked figure rose
at her entrance. But--was it purely Anita's fancy or had some indefinable change actually taken
place in the manner of her spiritual adviser? The rather close-set eyes seemed to the girl
to gleam somewhat coldly upon her, and although he took both her hands in his in quick, fatherly
greeting, his hand-clasp appeared all at once to be lacking in warmth.

"My poor child, my poor Anita!" he began unctuously, but she interrupted him.

"What is it, Dr. Franklin? Has something happened to Ramon?" she asked swiftly. "Please tell
me! Now, without delay! Don't keep me in suspense. I can tell by your face, your manner, that
a new misfortune has come to me! Does it concern Ramon?"

"Oh, no; it is not Mr. Hamilton. You need have no fears for him, Anita. I have come upon a
business matter--a matter connected with your dear father's estate."

Anita motioned him to a chair. Seating herself opposite, she gazed at him inquiringly.

"The settlement of the estate? Oh, the lawyers are attending to that, I believe." Anita spoke
a little coldly. Had Dr. Franklin come already to inquire about a possible legacy for St. James'?

She was ashamed of the thought the next moment, when he said gently, "Yes, but there is something
which I must tell you. It has been requested that I do so. It is a delicate matter to discuss
with you, but surely no one is more fitted to speak to you than I."

"Certainly, Doctor, I understand." She leaned forward eagerly.

"My dear, you know the whole country, the whole world at large, has always considered your
father to have been a man of great wealth."

"Yes. My father's charities alone, as you are aware, unostentatiously as they were conducted,
would have tended to give that impression. Then his tremendous business interests--"

"Anita, at the moment of your father's death he was far from being the King of Finance, which
the world judged him to be. It is hard for me to tell you this, but you must know, and you
must try to believe that your Heavenly Father is sending you this added trial for some sure
purpose of His own. Your father died a poor man, Anita. In fact, a bankrupt." The girl looked
up with an incredulous smile.

"Dr. Franklin, who could ever have asked you to come to me with such an incredible assertion?
Surely, you must know how preposterous the very idea is! I do not boast or brag, but it is
common knowledge that my father was the richest man in the city, in this entire part of the
country, in fact. The thought of such a thing is absurd. Who could have attempted to perpetrate
such a senseless hoax, a ridiculous insult to your intelligence and mine?"

The minister shook his head slowly.

"'Common knowledge' is, alas, not always trustworthy. It is only too true that your father
stood on the verge of bankruptcy. His entire fortune has been swept away."

"Impossible!"

Anita started from her chair, impressed in spite of herself. "How could that be? Who has told
you this terrible thing?"

"The unfortunate news was disclosed to me confidentially by your late father's truest friends
and closest associates. Having your best interests at heart, they feel that you should know
the state of affairs at once, and came to me as the one best fitted to inform you."

"I cannot believe it!" Anita Lawton sank back with white, strained face. "I cannot believe
that it is true. How could such a thing have happened? They must be mistaken--those who gave
you such information. Father was worth millions, at least. That I know, for he told me much
of his business affairs and up to the last day of his life he was engaged in tremendous deals
of almost national importance."

"Might he not have become so deeply involved in one of them that he could not extricate himself,
and ruin came?" Dr. Franklin insinuated. "I know little of finance, of course; and those who
wished you to know gave me none of the details beyond the one paramount fact."

"I know, of course, who were your informants," Anita said. "No one except my father's three
closest associates had any possible conception of how much he possessed, even approximately,
for he was always secretive and conservative in his dealings. Only to Mr. Mallowe, Mr. Rockamore
and Mr. Carlis did he ever divulge his plans to the slightest extent. A bankrupt! My father
a bankrupt? The very words seem meaningless to me. Dr. Franklin, there must be some hideous
mistake."

"Unfortunately, it is no mistake, my poor child. These gentlemen you mention, I may admit to
you in confidence, were my informants."

"You say they gave you no details beyond the paramount fact of my father's ruin? But surely
they must have told you something more. I have a right to know, Dr. Franklin, and I shall not
rest until I do. How did such a catastrophe come to him? There have been no gigantic failures
lately, no panics which could have swept him down. What terrible mistake could he have made,
he whose judgment was almost infallible?"

The minister hesitated visibly, and when he spoke at last, it was as if with a conscious effort
he chose his words.

"I do not think it was any sudden collapse of some project in which he was engaged, Anita,
but a--a general series of misfortunes which culminated by forcing him, just before his death,
to the brink of bankruptcy. You are a mere child, my dear, and could not be supposed to understand
matters of finance. If you will be guided by me you will accept the assurance of your friends
who truly have your best interests at heart. Their statements will be confirmed, I know, by
the lawyers who are engaged in settling up the estate of your father. Do not, I beg of you,
inquire too closely into the details of your father's insolvency."

Anita rose slowly, her eyes fixed upon the face of the minister, and with her hands resting
upon the chair-back, as if to steady herself, she asked quietly:

"Why should I not? What is there which I, his daughter, should not know? Dr. Franklin, there
is something behind all this which you are trying to conceal from me. I knew my father to be
a multi-millionaire. You come and tell me he was a pauper instead, a bankrupt; and I am not
to ask how this state of affairs came about? You have known me since I was a little girl--surely
you understand me well enough to realize that I shall not rest under such a condition until
the whole truth is revealed to me!"

"I am your friend." The resonance in the minister's voice deepened. "You will believe me when
I tell you that it would be best for your future, for the honor of your father's memory, to
place yourself without question in the hands of your true friends, and to ask no details which
are not voluntarily given you."

"'Best for my future!'" she repeated, aghast. "'For the honor of my father's memory.' What
do you mean, Dr. Franklin? You have gone too far not to speak plainly. Do you dare--are you
insinuating, that there was something disgraceful, dishonorable about my father's insolvency?
You have been my spiritual adviser nearly all my life, and when you tell me that my father
was a bankrupt, that the knowledge comes to you from his best friends and will be corroborated
by his attorneys, I am forced to believe you. But if you attempt to convince me that my father's
honor--his good name--is involved, then I tell you that it is not true! Either a terrible mistake
has been made or a deliberate conspiracy is on foot--the blackest sort of conspiracy, to defame
the dead!"

"My dear!" The minister raised his hands in shocked amazement. "You are beside yourself, you
don't know what you are saying! I have repeated to you only that which was told to me, and
in practically the same words. As to the possibility of a conspiracy, you will realize the
absurdity of such an idea when I deliver to you the message with which I was charged. Your
father's partner in many enterprises, the Honorable Bertie Rockamore, together with President
Mallowe, of the Street Railways, and Mr. Carlis, the great politician, promised some little
time ago that they would stand in loco parentis toward you should your natural protector be
removed. They desire me to tell you that you need have no anxiety for the immediate future.
You will be cared for and provided with all that you have been accustomed to, just as if your
father were alive."

"Indeed? They are most kind--" Anita spoke quietly enough, but with a curiously dry, controlled
note in her voice which reminded the minister of her father's tones, and for some inexplicable
reason he felt vaguely uncomfortable. "Please say to them that I do sincerely appreciate their
magnanimity, their charity, toward one who has no right, legal or moral, to claim protection
or care from them. But now, Dr. Franklin, may I beg that you will forgive me if I retire? The
news you have brought me of course has been a terrible shock. I must have time to collect my
thoughts, to realize the sudden, terrible change this revelation has made in my whole life.
I am deeply grateful to you, to my father's three associates, but I can say no more now."

"Of course, dear child." Dr. Franklin patted her hand perfunctorily and arose with ill-concealed
relief that the interview was at an end. He could not understand her attitude of the last few
moments and it troubled him vaguely. She had received the news of her father's bankruptcy with
a girlish horror and incredulousness--which had been only natural under the circumstances;
but when it was borne in upon her, in as delicate a way as he could convey it, that dishonor
was involved in the matter, she had, after the first outburst, maintained a stony, ashen self-poise
and control that were far from what he had expected. It was the most disagreeable task he had
performed in many a day and he was heartily glad that it was over. Only his very great desire
to ingratiate himself with these kings of finance, who had commissioned him to do their bidding,
as well as the inclination to be of real service to his young and orphaned parishioner, had
induced him to undertake the mission.

"You must rest and have an opportunity to adjust yourself to this new, unfortunate state of
affairs," he continued. "I will call again to-morrow. If I can be of the slightest service
to you, do not hesitate to let me know. It is a sad trial, but our Heavenly Father has tempered
the wind to the shorn lamb; He has provided you with a protector in young Mr. Hamilton, and
with kind, true friends who will see that no harm or deprivation comes to you. Try to feel
that this added grief and trouble will, in the end, be for the best."

The alacrity with which he took his departure was painfully obvious, but Anita scarcely noticed
it. Her mind was busy with the new, hideous thought, which had assailed her at that first hint
of dishonesty on the part of her father--the thought that she was being made the victim of
a gigantic conspiracy.

As soon as she found herself alone, she flew to the telephone. "Main, 2785," she demanded....
"Mr. Hamilton, please.... Is that you, Ramon?... Can you come to me at once? I need your advice
and help. Something has happened--something terrible! No, I cannot tell you over the 'phone.
You will come at once? Yes, good-by, Ramon dear."

She hung up the receiver and paced the floor restlessly. Almost inconceivable as it had appeared
to her consciousness under the first shock of the announcement, she might in time have come
to accept the astounding fact of her father's insolvency, but that disgrace, dishonor, could
have attached itself to his name--that he, the model of uprightness, of integrity could have
been guilty of crooked dealing, of something which must for the honor of his memory be kept
secret from the ears of his fellow-men, she could never bring herself to believe. Every instinct
of her nature revolted, and underlying all her girlish unsophistication, a native shrewdness,
inherited perhaps from her father, bade her distrust alike the worldly, self-interested pastor
of the Church of St. James and the three so-called friends, who, although her father's associates,
had been his rivals, and who had offered with such astounding magnanimity to stand by her.

Why had they offered to help her? Was it really through tenderness and affection for her father's
daughter, or was it to stay her hand and close her mouth to all queries?

Why did not Ramon come? Surely he should have been there before this. What could be detaining
him? She tried to be patient, to calm her seething brain while she waited, but it was no use.
Hours passed while she paced the floor, restlessly, and the dusk settled into the darkness
of early winter. Wilkes came to turn on the lights, but she refused them--she could think better
in the dark. The dinner-hour came and went and twice Ellen knocked anxiously upon the door,
but Anita, torn with anxiety, would pay no heed. She had telephoned to Ramon's office, only
to find that he had left there immediately upon receiving her message; to his home--he had
not returned.

Nine o'clock sounded in silvery chimes from the clock upon the mantel; then ten and eleven
and at length, just when she felt that she could endure no more, the front door-bell rang.
A well-known step sounded upon the stairs, and Ramon entered.

With a little gasp of joy and relief she flung herself upon him in the darkness, but at an
involuntary groan from him she recoiled.

"What is it, Ramon? What has happened to you?"

Without waiting for a reply she switched on the light.

Ramon stood before her, his face pale, his eyes dark with pain. One arm was in a sling and
the thick hair upon his forehead barely concealed a long strip of plaster.

"Nothing really serious, dear. I had a slight accident--run down by a motor-car, just after
leaving the office. My head was cut and I was rather knocked out, so they took me to a hospital.
I would have come before, but they would not allow me to leave. I knew that you would be anxious
because of my delay in coming, but I feared to add to your apprehension by telephoning to you
from the hospital."

"But your arm--is it sprained?"

"Broken. I had a nasty crash--can't imagine how it was that I didn't see the car coming in
time to avoid it. It was a big limousine with several men inside, all singing and shouting
riotously, and the chauffeur, I think, must have been drunk, for he swerved the car directly
across the road in my path. They never stopped after they had bowled me over, and no one seemed
to know where they went."

"Then the police did not get their number?"

"No, but they will, of course. Not that I care, particularly; I'm lucky to have got off as
lightly as I did. I might have been killed."

"It was a miracle that you were not, Ramon. Do you know what I believe? I don't think it was
any accident, but a deliberate attempt to assassinate you; to keep you from coming to me."

"What nonsense, dear! They were a wild, hilarious party, careless and irresponsible. Such accidents
happen every day."

"I am convinced that it was no accident. Ramon, I feel that I am to be the victim of a conspiracy;
that you are the only human being who stands in the way of my being absolutely in the power
of those who would defraud me and defame father's name."

"Anita, what do you mean?"

"Dr. Franklin called upon me this afternoon; he left just before I telephoned to you. He told
me an astonishing piece of news. Ramon, would you have considered my father a rich man?"

"What an absurd question, dear! Of course. One of the richest men in the whole country, as
you know."

"You say that he consulted you about his business affairs, and that you knew of no trouble
or difficulty which could have caused him anxiety? His securities in stocks and bonds, his
assets were all sound?"

"Certainly. What do you mean?"

"I mean that my father died a pauper! That on the word of Mr. Rockamore, Mr. Mallowe, Mr. Carlis
and Dr. Franklin, he was on the verge of dishonorable bankruptcy, into which I may not inquire."

"Good Heavens, they must be mad! I am sure that your father was at the zenith of his successful
career, and as for dishonor, surely, Anita, no one who knew him could credit that!"

"Mr. Rockamore and the other two who were so closely associated with him made a solemn promise
to my father shortly before his death, it seems, that they would care for and provide for me.
They sent Dr. Franklin to me this afternoon to explain the circumstances to me, and to assure
me of their protection. Save for you, they consider me absolutely in their hands; and when
I sent for you, you were almost killed in the attempt to come to me. Ramon, don't you see,
don't you understand, there is some mystery on foot, some terrible conspiracy? That unknown
visitor, my father's death so soon after, and now this sudden revelation of his bankruptcy,
together with this accident to you? Ramon, we must have advice and help. I do not believe that
my father was a pauper. I know that he has done nothing dishonorable; I am convinced that the
accident to you was a premeditated attempt at murder."

"My God! I can't believe it, Anita; I don't know what to think. If it turns out that there
really is something crooked about it all, and Rockamore and the others are concerned in it,
it will be the biggest conspiracy that was ever hatched in the world of high finance. You were
right, dear, bless your woman's intuition; we must have help. This matter must be thoroughly
investigated. There is only one man in America to-day, who is capable of carrying it through,
successfully. I shall send at once for the Master Mind."

"The Master Mind?"

"Yes, dear--Henry Blaine, the most eminent detective the English-speaking world has produced."

"I have heard of him, of course. I think father knew him, did he not?"

"Yes, on one occasion he was of inestimable service to your father. I will summon him at once."

Ramon went to the telephone and by good luck found the detective free for the moment and at
his service.

He returned to the girl. She noticed that he reeled slightly in his walk; that his lips were
white and set with pain.

"Ramon, you are ill, suffering. That cut on your head and your poor arm--"

"It is nothing. I don't mind, Anita darling; it will soon pass. Thank Heavens, I found Mr.
Blaine free. He will get to the truth of this matter for us even if no one else on earth could.
He has brought more notorious malefactors to justice than any detective of modern times; fearlessly,
he has unearthed political scandals which lay dangerously close to the highest executives of
the land. He cannot be cajoled, bribed or intimidated; you will be safe in his hands from the
machinations of every scoundrel who ever lived."

"I have read of some of his marvelous exploits, but; what service was it that he rendered to
my father?"

"I--I cannot tell you, dearest. It was very long ago, and a matter which affected your father
solely. Perhaps some time you may learn the truth of it."

"I may not know! I may not know! Why must I be so hedged in? Why must everything be kept from
me? I feel as if I were living in a maze of mystery. I must know the truth."

She wrung her hands hysterically, but he soothed her and they talked in low tones until Wilkes
suddenly appeared in the doorway and announced:

"Mr. Henry Blaine!"

CHAPTER III

HENRY BLAINE TAKES A HAND

A man stood upon the threshold: a man of medium height, with sandy hair and mustache slightly
tinged with gray. His face was alert and keenly intelligent. His eyes shrewd, but kindly, the
brows sloping downward toward the nose, with the peculiar look of concentration of one given
to quick decisions and instant, fearless action.

His eyes traveled quickly from the young girl's face to Ramon Hamilton, as the latter advanced
with outstretched hand.

"Mr. Blaine, it was fortunate that we found you at liberty and able to assist us in a matter
which is of vital importance to us both. This is Miss Anita Lawton, daughter of the late Pennington
Lawton, who desires your aid on a most urgent matter."

"Miss Lawton." Mr. Elaine bowed over her hand.

When they were seated she said, shyly: "I understand from Ramon--Mr. Hamilton--that you were
at one time of great service to my father. I trust that you will be able to help me now, for
I feel that I am in the meshes of a conspiracy. You know that my father died suddenly, almost
a week ago."

"Yes, of course. His death was a great loss to the whole country, Miss Lawton."

"Something occurred a few hours before his death, of which even the coroner is unaware, Mr.
Blaine. I told Mr. Hamilton what I knew, but he advised me to say nothing of it, unless further
developments ensued."

"And they have ensued?" the detective asked quietly.

"Yes."

Anita then detailed to Mr. Blaine the incident of her father's nocturnal visitor. As she told
him the conversation she had overheard, it seemed to her that the eyes of the detective narrowed
slightly, but no other change of expression betrayed the fact that the incident might have
held a significance in his mind.

"The voice was entirely strange to you?" he asked.

"Yes; I have never heard it before, but it made such an impression upon me that I think I would
recognize it instantly whenever or wherever I might happen to hear it."

"You caught no glimpse of the man through the half-opened door?"

"No, I was not far enough downstairs to see into the room."

"And when you fled, after hearing your father groan, you returned immediately to your room?"

"Yes. I closed my door and buried my face deeply in the pillows on my bed. I did not want to
hear or know any more. I was frightened; I did not know what to think. After a time I must
have drifted off into an uneasy sort of sleep, for I knew nothing more until my maid came to
tell me that Wilkes, the butler, wished to speak to me. My father had been found dead in his
chair. No one in the household seemed to know of my father's late visitor, for they made no
mention of his coming. I would have told no one, except Ramon, but for the fact that this afternoon
my minister informed me that my father, instead of being the multi-millionaire we had all supposed
him, had in reality died a bankrupt."

The detective received this information with inscrutable calm. Only by a thoughtful pursing
of his lips did he give indication that the news had any visible effect upon him.

Anita continued, giving him all the details of the minister's visit, and the magnanimous promise
of her father's three associates to stand in loco parentis toward her.

It was only when she told of summoning her lover, and the accident which befell him on his
way to her, that that peculiar gleam returned again to the eyes of Mr. Blaine, and they glanced
narrowly at the young man opposite him.

"As I told Ramon, I cannot help but feel that it is not true. My father could not have become
a pauper, much less could he, the soul of honor, have been guilty of anything derogatory to
his good name. Until a few days prior to his death, he had been in his usual excellent spirits,
and surely had there been any financial difficulties in his path he would have retrenched,
in some measure. He made no effort to do so, however, and in the last few weeks has given even
more generously than usual to the various philanthropic projects in which he was so interested.
Does that look as if he was on the verge of bankruptcy? He bought me a string of pearls on
my birthday, two months ago, which for their size are considered by experts to be the most
perfectly matched in America. A fortnight ago, he presented me with a new car. Only three days
before his death he spoke of an ancient château in France which he had desired to purchase.
Oh, the whole affair is utterly inexplicable to me!"

"We will take the matter up at once, Miss Lawton. The main thing that I must impress upon you
for the present is to acquiesce with the utmost docility and unsuspicion in every proposition
made to you by the three men, Carlis, Mallowe and Rockamore; in other words, place yourself
absolutely in their hands, but keep me informed of every move they make. You understand that
the most important factor in this case is to keep them absolutely unsuspecting of your distrust,
or that you have called me to your assistance. I must not be seen coming here or to Mr. Hamilton's
office, nor must you come to mine. I will have a private wire installed for you to-morrow morning,
by means of which you can communicate with me, or one of my operatives, at any hour of the
day or night, in the presence of anyone. This telephone will connect only with my office, but
the number will be, supposedly, that of your dressmaker, and if you require aid, advice, or
the presence of one of my operatives, you have merely to call up the number and say: 'Is my
gown ready? If it is, please send it around immediately.' Let me know through this medium whatever
occurs, and take absolutely no one into your confidence."

"I understand, Mr. Blaine; and I will try to follow your instructions to the letter. Oh, by
the way, there is something I wish to tell you, which no one, not even Mr. Hamilton, knows,
much less my father's friends, or my minister. Four years ago, my father financed a philanthropic
venture of mine, the Anita Lawton Club for Working Girls. It is not a purely charitable institution,
but a home club, where worthy young women could live by paying a nominal sum--merely to preserve
their self-respect--and be aided in obtaining positions. Stenographers, telephone and telegraph
operators, clerks, all find homes there. No one knew, however, that under my management, the
club grew in less than a year not only to have paid for itself, but to have yielded a small
income, over and above expenses. I did not tell my father--I don't know why, perhaps it was
because I inherited a little of his business acumen, but I manipulated the net income in various
minor undertakings, even in time buying small plots of unimproved real-estate, meaning after
a year or two more to surprise my father with the result of my venture, but his death intervened
before I could tell him about it."

"Your father's associates, then, believe you to be without funds or private income of your
own?" the detective asked.

"Yes, Mr. Blaine. And whatever money is necessary for the investigation, will, of course, be
forthcoming from this source."

"Let me strongly advise you to make no mention of it to anyone else; let these men believe
you to be utterly within their power financially. And now, Miss Lawton, I will leave you, for
I have work to do." The detective rose. "The private wire will be installed to-morrow morning.
Remember to be absolutely unsuspicious, to appear deeply grateful for the kindness offered
you; receive these men and your spiritual adviser whenever they call, and above all, keep me
informed of everything that occurs, no matter how insignificant or irrelevant it may seem to
you to be. Keep me advised on even the smallest details--anything, everything concerning you
and them."

Thus it was, that when two days later, President Mallowe of the Street Railways, called upon
his new ward, she received him with downcast eyes, and a charmingly deferential manner. His
long-nosed, heavy-jowled face, with the bristling gray side-whiskers, flushed darkly when she
placed her trembling little hand in his and shyly voiced her gratitude for his great kindness
to her.

"My dear young lady, this has been a most sad and unfortunate affair, but I have come to assure
you again of the sentiments of myself and my associates toward you. We come, your self-appointed
guardians; we will see that no financial worriments shall come to you. Remember, my dear, that
I have three married daughters of my own, and I could not permit the child of my old friend
to want for anything. You may remain on here in this house, which has been your home, indefinitely,
and it will be maintained for you in the manner to which you have always been accustomed."

"Remain here in my home?" Anita stammered. "Why it--it is my home, isn't it?"

"You must consider it as such. I do not like to tell you this, but it is necessary that you
should know. I hold a mortgage of eighty thousand dollars on the house, but I have never recorded
it, because of my friendship and close affiliation with your father. I shall not have it recorded
now, of course, but there is a slight condition, purely a matter of business, which in view
of the fact that through your coming marriage you will have a home of your own, Mr. Rockamore,
Mr. Carlis and myself, feel that we should agree upon. Your father has a shadowy interest in
some old bonds which have for years been unremunerative. Should they prove of ultimate value,
we feel that they should be transferred to us as our reimbursement for the present large sum
which we shall lay out for you."

"Of course, Mr. Mallowe. That would only be just. I am glad that I may perhaps have an opportunity
to repay some of the kindness which in your great-hearted charity, you are now bestowing upon
me. I will see that my father's attorneys attend to the matter, as soon as possible. It may
be some little time before the estate is settled, as of course it must be horribly complicated
and involved, but I will bring this to their immediate attention."

"You are a very brave young woman, Miss Lawton, and I am glad that you are taking such a clear-sighted
view of this double catastrophe which has come upon you. Ah, I had almost forgotten; here is
a duplicate of the mortgage which I hold upon this house, which your father made out to me
some months ago."

Anita scarcely glanced at it, but laid it quietly by upon the table, as though it were of small
interest to her.

"Mr. Mallowe, although I understand that Mr. Rockamore, being a promoter, was more closely
associated with my father in various projects than you, I believe that he always considered
you his best friend. Can you tell me what it was which brought my father's affairs to such
a pass as this?"

"Dear young lady, do not ask me. It is a painful subject to discuss, and as you are a mere
child, you cannot be supposed to understand the financial manoeuvres of a man of your father's
passion for gigantic operations. Years of success had possibly made him overconfident; and
then you know, we are none of us infallible; we are liable to make mistakes, at one time or
another. Your father interested himself daringly in many schemes which we more conservative
ones would have hesitated to enter; indeed, we not only hesitated, but repeatedly declined
when your father placed the propositions before us. As you know, unfortunately, he was a man
who would have resented any attempt at advice, and although for a long time we have seen his
approaching financial downfall, and have helped him in every way we could to avert it, he would
not relinquish his plans while there was yet time. Do not ask me to go into any further details.
It is really most distressing. Your father's attorneys will understand the matter fully when
the estate is finally settled."

"I cannot understand it," Anita murmured. "I thought my father's judgment almost infallible.
However, Mr. Mallowe, I cannot express my gratitude to you and my father's other associates
for your great kindness toward me. Believe me, I am deeply affected by it. I shall never forget
what you have done."

"Do not speak of it, dear Miss Lawton. I only wish for your sake that your poor father had
heeded poorer heads than his, but it is too late to speak of that now. We will do all in our
power to aid you, rest assured of that. Should you require anything, you have only to call
upon Mr. Rockamore, Mr. Carlis or myself."

When he had bowed himself out, Anita flew to the table, seized the duplicate of the mortgage
which he had given her, and slipped it between the pages of a book lying there. Then she went
directly to her dressing-room where on a little stand near her bed reposed a telephone instrument
which had not been there three days previously.

"Grosvenor 0760," she demanded, and when a voice replied to her at the other end of the wire,
she asked querulously, "Is not my new gown ready yet? If it is, will you kindly send it over
at once? I have also found your last quarterly bill, and I think there is something wrong with
it. I will send it back by the messenger, who brings my gown. Thank you; good-by."

She took an envelope from the desk and returning to the drawing-room slipped the duplicate
mortgage within it and sealed it carefully.

When, a few minutes later, a tall, dark, stolid-faced young man appeared, with a large dressmaker's
box, she placed the envelope in his hand.

"For Mr. Blaine," she whispered. "See that it reaches him immediately."

A half hour afterward, Ramon Hamilton went to the telephone in his office, and heard the detective's
voice over the wire.

"Mr. Hamilton, have you among the letters and documents at your office the signature of the
person we were discussing the other day?"

"Why, yes, I think so. I will look and see. If I have do you wish me to send it around to you?"

"No, thank you. A messenger boy will call for it in a few minutes."

Wondering, Ramon Hamilton shuffled hastily through the paper in the pigeon-holes of his desk
until he came to a letter from Pennington Lawton. He carefully tore off the signature, and
when the messenger boy appeared, gave it to him. He would not have been so puzzled, had he
seen the great Henry Blaine, when a few minutes had elapsed, seated before the desk in his
office, comparing the signature of the torn slip which he had sent with that affixed to the
duplicate mortgage.

A long, close, breathless scrutiny, with the most powerful magnifying glasses, and the detective
jumped to his feet.

"That's no signature of Pennington Lawton," he exulted to himself. "I thought I knew that fine
hand, perfectly as the forgery has been done. That's the work of James Brunell, by the Lord!"

CHAPTER IV

THE SEARCH

Henry Blaine, the man of decision, wasted no time in vain thought. Instantly, upon his discovery
that the signature of Pennington Lawton had been forged, and that it had been done by an old
and well-known offender, he touched the bell on his desk, which brought his confidential secretary.

"Has Guy Morrow returned yet from that blackmail case in Denver?"

"Yes, sir. He's in his private office now, making out his report to you."

A moment later, there entered a tall, dark young man, strong and muscular in build, but not
apparently heavy, with a smooth face and firm-set jaw.

"I haven't finished my report yet, sir--"

"The report can wait. You remember James Brunell, the forger?"

"James Brunell?" Morrow repeated. "He was before my time, of course, but I've heard of him
and his exploits. Pretty slick article, wasn't he! I understand he has been dead for years--at
least nothing has been heard of his activities since I have been in the sleuth game."

"Did you ever hear of any of his associates?"

"I can't say that I have, sir, except Crimmins and Dolan; Crimmins died in San Quentin before
his time was up; Dolan after his release went to Japan."

"I want to find Brunell. His closest associate was Walter Pennold. I think Pennold is living
somewhere in Brooklyn, and through him you may be able to locate Brunell--"

Morrow shrugged his shoulders.

"A retired crook in the suburbs. That's going to take time."

"Not the way we'll work it. Listen."

The next morning, a tall, dark young man, strong and muscular in build, with a smooth face
and firm-set jaw, appeared at the Bank of Brooklyn & Queens, and was immediately installed
as a clerk, after a private interview with the vice-president.

His fellow clerks looked at him askance at first, for they knew there had been no vacancy,
and there was a long waiting list ahead of him, but the young man bore himself with such a
quiet, modest air of camaraderie about him that by the noon hour they had quite accepted him
as one of themselves.

During the morning a package came to the bank and a letter which read in part:

    ... I am returning these securities to you in the hope that
    you may be able to place them in the possession of Jimmy
    Brunell. They belong to him, and my conscience is responsible
    for their return. I don't know where to find him. I do know
    that at one time he did some banking at the Brooklyn & Queens
    Institution. If he does not do so now, kindly hold these
    securities for Jimmy Brunell until called for, and in the
    meantime see Walter Pennold of Brooklyn.

With the package and letter came a request from Henry Blaine which those in power at the Brooklyn
& Queens Bank were only too glad to accede to, in order to ingratiate themselves with the great
investigator.

In accordance with this request, therefore, the affair was made known by the bank-officials
to the clerks as a matter of long standing which had only just been rediscovered in an old
vault, and the subordinates discussed it among themselves with the gusto of those whose lives
were bounded by gilt cages, and circumscribed by rules of silence. It was not unusual, therefore,
that the new clerk, Alfred Hicks, should have heard of it, but it was unusual that he should
find it expedient to make a detour on his way to work the next morning which would take him
to the gate of Walter Pennold's modest home. Perhaps the fact that Alfred Hicks' real name
was Guy Morrow and that a letter received early that morning from Henry Blaine's office, giving
Pennold's address and a single line of instruction may have had much to do with his matutinal
visit.

Be that as it may, Morrow, the dapper young bank-clerk, found in the Pennold household a grizzled,
middle-aged man, with shifty, suspicious eyes and a moist hand-clasp; behind him appeared a
shrewish, thin-haired wife who eyed the intruder from the first with ill-concealed animosity.

He smiled--that frank, winning smile which had helped to land more men behind the bars than
the astuteness of many of his seniors--and said: "I'm a clerk in the Brooklyn & Queens Bank,
Mr. Pennold, and we have a box of securities there evidently belonging to one Jimmy Brunell.
No one knows anything about it and no note came with it except a line which read: 'Hold for
Jim Brunell. See Walter Pennold of Brooklyn.' Now you're the only Walter Pennold who banks
with the B. & Q. and I thought you might like to know about it. There are over two hundred
thousand dollars in securities and they have evidently been left there by somebody as conscience-money.
You can go to the bank and see the people about it, of course. In fact, I understand they are
going to write you a letter concerning it, but I thought you might like to know of it in advance.
In case this Mr. Brunell is alive, they will pay him the money on demand, or if dead, to his
heirs after him."

The middle-aged man with the shifty eyes spat cautiously, and then, rubbing his stubby chin
with a hairy, freckled hand, observed:

"Well, young man, I'm Pennold, all right. I do some business with the Brooklyn & Queens people--small
business, of course, for we poor honest folk haven't the money to put in finance that the big
stock-holders have. I don't know where you can find this man Brunell, haven't heard of him
in years, but I understand he went wrong. Ain't that so, Mame?"

The hatchet-faced woman nodded her head in slow and non-committal thought.

Pennold edged a little nearer his unknown guest and asked in a tone of would-be heartiness.
"And what might your name be? You're a bright-looking feller to be a bank-clerk--not the stolid,
plodding kind."

Morrow chuckled again.

"My name is Hicks. I live at 46 Jefferson Place. It's only a little way from here, you know."
He swung his lunch-box nonchalantly. "Of course, bank-clerking don't get you anywhere, but
it's steady, such as it is, and I go out with the boys a lot." He added confidentially: "The
ponies are still running, you know, even if the betting-ring is closed--and there are other
ways--" He paused significantly.

"I see, a sport, eh?" Pennold darted a quick glance at his wife. "Well, don't let it get the
best of you, young feller. Remember what I told you about Jimmy Brunell--at least, what the
report of him was. If I hear anything of where he is, I'll let the bank know."

"I'll be getting on; I'm late now--" Morrow paused on the bottom step of the little porch and
turned. "See you again, Mr. Pennold, and your wife, if you'll let me. I pass by here often--I've
been boarding with Mrs. Lindsay, on Jefferson Place, for some time now. By the way, have you
seen the sporting page of the Gazette this morning? Al Goetz edits it, you know, and he gives
you the straight dope. There'll be nothing to that fight they're pulling off Saturday night
at the Zucker Athletic Club--Hennessey'll put it all over Schnabel in the first round. Good-by!
If you hear anything of this Brunell, be sure you let me or the bank know!"

For a long moment after his buoyant stride had carried him out of sight around the corner,
Walter Pennold and his wife sat in thoughtful silence. Then the woman spoke.

"What d'ye think of it all, Wally?"

"Dunno." The gentleman addressed drew from his pocket a blackened, odoriferous pipe and sucked
upon it. "Must be some lay, of course. I'll go up to the bank and find out what I can, but
I don't think that young feller, Hicks, is in on it. I've been in the game for forty years,
and if I'm a judge, he's no 'tec. Fool kid spendin' more'n he earns and out for what coin he
can grab. I'll look up that landlady of his, too, Mame; and if he's on the level there, and
at the bank--"

"And if those securities are at the bank, he ought to be willin' to come in with us on a share,"
the wife supplemented shrewdly. "But it seems like some kind of a gag to me. You knew all Jimmy
Brunell's jobs till he got religion or somethin', and turned honest--I can't think of any old
crook who'd turn over that money to him, two hundred thousand cold, because his conscience
hurt him, can you? You know, too, how decent and respectable Jimmy's been livin' all these
years, putting up a front for the sake of that daughter of his; suppose this was a put-up game
to catch him--what do the bulls want him for?"

"I ain't no mind-reader. I'll look up this business of securities, and then if the young feller's
talked straight, we'll try to work it through him, if we can get to him, and I guess we can,
so long as I ain't lost the gift of the gab in twenty years. We'll be as good, sorrowing heirs
as ever Jimmy Brunell could find anywheres."

Before Walter Pennold could reach the bank, however, an unimpeachably official letter arrived
from that institution, confirming the news imparted by the bank-clerk concerning the securities
left for James Brunell. Pennold, going to the bank ostensibly to assure those in authority
there of his cordial willingness to assist in the search for the heir, incidentally assured
himself of Alfred Hicks' seemingly legitimate occupation. A later visit to Mrs. Lindsay of
46 Jefferson Place convinced him that the young man had lived there for some months and was
as generous, open-handed, easy-going a boarder as that excellent woman had ever taken into
her house. Just what price was paid by Henry Blaine to Mrs. Lindsay for that statement is immaterial
to this narrative, but it suffices that Walter Pennold returned to the sharp-tongued wife of
his bosom with only one obstacle in his thoughts between himself and a goodly share of the
coveted two hundred thousand dollars.

That obstacle was an extremely healthy fear of Jimmy Brunell. It was true that there had been
no connection between them in years, but he remembered Jimmy's attitude toward the "snitcher,"
as well as toward the man who "held out" on his pals; and behind his cupidity was a lurking
caution which was made manifest when he walked into the kitchen and found Mrs. Pennold with
her shriveled arms immersed in the washtub.

"Say, Mame, the young feller, Hicks, is all right, and so is the bank; but how about Jimmy
himself? If I can fix the young feller, and we can pull it off with the bank, that's all well
and good. But s'pose Jimmy should hear of it? Know what would happen to us, don't you?"

"If he ain't heard of them securities all this time they've been lyin' forgotten in the bank,
it's safe he won't hear of 'em now unless you tell him," retorted his shrewder half, dryly.
"Of course, if he's lived straight, as he has for near twenty years as far as we know, and
he finds it out, he'll grab everything for himself. Why shouldn't he? But s'pose the bulls
are after him for somethin', and the bank's hood-winked as well as us, where are we if we mix
up in this? Tell me that!"

"There's another side of it, too, Mame."

Pennold walked to the window, and regarded the sordid lines of washed clothes contemplatively.
"What if Jimmy has been up to somethin' on the quiet, that the bulls ain't on to, and this
bunch of securities is on the level? If I went to him on the square, and offered him a percentage
to play dead, wouldn't he be ready and willin' to divide?"

"Of course he would; he's no fool," returned Mrs. Pennold shortly. "But let me tell you, Wally,
I don't like the look of that 'See Walter Pennold of Brooklyn,' on the note in the bank. S'pose
they was trying to trace him through us?"

"You're talkin' like a blame' fool, Mame. Them securities has been there for years, forgotten.
Everybody knows that me and Brunell was pals in the old days, but no one's got nothin' on us
now, and he give up the game years ago."

"How d'you know he did?" persisted his wife doggedly. "That's what you better find out, but
you've gotter be careful about it, in case this whole thing should be a plant."

"You don't have to tell me!" Pennold grumbled. "I'll write him first and then wait a few days,
and if anyone's tailing me in the meantime, they'll have a run for their money."

"Write him!"

"Of course. You may have forgotten the old cipher, but I haven't. You know yourself we invented
it, Jimmy and me, and the police tried their level best to get on to it, but failed."

"You can't address it in cipher, and if you're tailed you won't get a chance to mail it, Wally.
Better wait and try to see him without writing."

For answer Pennold opened a drawer in the table, drew forth a grimy sheet of paper and an envelope,
and bent laboriously to his task. It was long past dusk when he had finished, and tossed the
paper across the table for his wife's perusal. This is what she saw:

When she had gazed long at the characters, she shook her head at him, and a slow smile came
over her face.

"You've forgotten a little yourself, Wally. You made a mistake in the k."

He glanced half-incredulously at it, and then laid his huge, rough hand on her thin hair in
the first caress he had given her in years.

"By God, old girl, you're a smart one! You're right. Now listen. You've got to do the rest
for me, the hardest part. Mail it."

"How? If we're tailed--"

"There'll be only one on the job, if we are, and I'll keep him busy to-morrow morning. You
go to the market as usual, then go into that big department store, Ahearn & McManus'. There's
a mail chute there, next the notion counter on the ground floor. Buy a spool of thread or somethin',
and while you're waitin' for change, drop the letter in the box. You used to be pretty slick
in department stores, Mame--"

"Smoothest shoplifter in New York until I got palsy!" she interrupted proudly, an unaccustomed
glow on her sallow face. "I'll do it, Wally; I know I can!"

The next morning Alfred Hicks was a little late in getting to his work at the bank--so late,
in fact, that he had only time to wave a cordial greeting to his new friends in their cages
as he passed. He paused, however, that evening, with a pot of flowering bloom for Mrs. Pennold's
dingy, not over-clean window-sill, and a packet of tobacco which he shared generously with
his host. He talked much, with the garrulous self-confidence of youth, but did not mention
the matter of the securities, and left the crafty couple completely disarmed.

Neither on entering nor leaving did Hicks appear to notice a short, swarthy figure loitering
in the shadow of a dejected-looking ailanthus tree near the corner. It would have appeared
curious, therefore, that the lurking figure followed the bank-clerk almost to his lodgings,
had it not been for the fact that just before Jefferson Place was reached the figure sidled
up to Hicks' side and whispered:

"No news yet, Morrow. Pennold went this morning to old Loui the Grabber and tried to borrow
money from him, but didn't get it. I heard the whole talk. Then he went to Tanbark Pete's and
got a ten-spot. After that, he divided his time between two saloons, where he played dominoes
and pinochle, and his own house. I've got to report to H. B. when I'm sure the subject is safe
for the night. Have you found anything yet?"

"Only that I've got him on the run. If he knows where our man is, Suraci, he'll go after him
in a day or two. Meantime, tell H. B., in case I don't get a chance to let him know, that the
securities stunt went, all right, and my end of it is O. K."

The next day, and the following, Pennold did indeed set for the young Italian detective a swift
pace. He departed upon long rambles, which started briskly and ended aimlessly; he called upon
harmless and tedious acquaintances, from Jamaica to Fordham; he went--apparently and ostentatiously
to look for a position as janitor--to many office-buildings in lower Manhattan, which he invariably
entered and left by different doors. In the evenings he sat blandly upon his own stoop, smoking
and chatting amiably if monosyllabically with his wife and their new-found friend, Alfred Hicks,
while his indefatigable shadow glowered apparently unnoticed from the gloom of the ailanthus tree.

On Thursday morning, however, Pennold betook himself leisurely to the nearest subway station,
and there the real trial of strength between him and his unseen antagonist began. From the
Brooklyn Bridge station he rode to the Grand Central; then with a speed which belied his physical
appearance, he raced across the bridge to the downtown platform, and caught a train for Fourteenth
Street. There he swiftly turned north to Seventy-second Street--then to the Grand Central,
again to Ninety-sixth, and so on, doubling from station to station until finally he felt that
he must be entirely secure from pursuit.

He alighted at length at a station far up in the Bronx, and after looking carefully about he
started off toward the west, where the mushroom growth of the new city sprang up in rows of
rococo brick and stone houses with oases of green fields and open lots between. He turned up
a little lane of tiny frame houses, each set in its trim garden, and stopped at the fourth cottage.

With a last furtive backward glance, Pennold mounted the steps and rang the bell nervously.
The door was opened from within so suddenly that it seemed as if the man who faced his visitor
on the threshold must have been awaiting the summons. He stepped quickly out, shutting the
door behind him, and for a short space the two stood talking in low tones--Pennold eagerly,
insistently, the other man evasively, slowly, as if choosing his words with care. He was as
erect as Pennold was shambling and stoop-shouldered, and although gray and lined of features,
his eyes were clear and more steady, his chin more firm, his whole bearing more elastic and
forceful.

He did not invite his visitor to enter, and the colloquy between them was brief. It was significant
that they did not shake hands, but parted with a brief though not unfriendly nod. The tall
man turned and re-entered his house, closing the door again behind him, while Pennold scuttled
away, without a farewell glance. It might have been well had he looked once more over his shoulder,
for there, crouching against the veranda rail where he had managed to overhear the last of
the conversation, was that short, swarthy figure which had followed so indefatigably on his
trail for three days--which had clung to him, closely but unseen, through all his devious journey
of that morning. Suraci had not failed.

He tailed Pennold to his home, then went in person with his report to the great Blaine himself,
who heard him through in silence, and then brought his mighty fist down upon his desk with
a blow which made the massive bronze ink-well quiver.

"That's our man! You've got him, Suraci. Good work! Now wait a little; I want you to take some
instructions yourself over to Morrow."

The next day the Pennolds missed the cheery greeting of their new friend, the bank-clerk. Since
the acquaintanceship had been so recently formed, it was odd that they should have been as
deeply concerned over his defection as they were. They said little that evening, but when his
absence continued the second day, Pennold himself ambled down to the Brooklyn & Queens Bank
and reluctantly deposited twenty dollars, merely for the pleasure of a chat with young Hicks.
The latter's cheery face failed to greet him, however, within its portals, and a craftily worded
inquiry merely elicited the information that he was no longer connected with that institution.

"What do you make of it, Mame?" he asked anxiously of his wife when he reached home. His step
was more shambling than ever, and his hands, clutching his hat-brim, trembled more than her
gnarled, palsied ones.

"I'll tell you what I think when I've been around to Mrs. Lindsay's this afternoon--to 46 Jefferson
Place."

"What're you goin' to do there? You can't ask for him, very well," objected her spouse.

"Do?" she retorted tartly. "What would I do in a boarding-house? Look for rooms for us, of
course, and inquire about the other lodgers to be sure it's respectable for a decent, middle-aged,
married couple. Do you think I'm goin' lookin' for a long-lost son? The life must be gettin'
you at last, Wally! Your head ain't what it used to be."

But Mrs. Pennold's vaunted astuteness gained her little knowledge which could be of value to
her in their late acquaintance. Mrs. Lindsay was a beetle-browed, enormously stout old lady,
with a stern eye and commanding presence, who looked as if in her younger days she might well
have been a police-matron--as indeed she had been. She had two double rooms and a single hall
bedroom to show for inspection, and she waxed surprisingly voluble concerning the vacancy of
the latter, at the first tentative mention of her other lodgers, by her visitor.

"As nice a young man as ever you'd wish to see, ma'am. I don't have none but the most refined
people in my house. Lived with me a year and a half, Mr. Hicks did, except for his vacation--regular
as clockwork in his bills, and free and open-handed with his tips to Delia. Of course, he wasn't
just what you might call steady in his goings-out and comings-in, but there never was nothin'
objectionable in his habits. You know what young men is! He had a fine position in a bank here
in Brooklyn, but I don't think the company he kep' was all that it might have been. Kind of
flashy and sporty, his friends was, and I guess that's what got him into trouble. For trouble
he was in, ma'am, when he paid me yesterday in full even to the shavin' mug which I'd bought
for his dresser, and meant him to keep for a present--and picked up bag and baggage and left.
I always did think Friday was an unlucky day! He stood in the vestibule and shook both my hands,
and there wasn't a dry eye in his head or mine!

"'Mis' Lindsay!' he says to me, just like I'm tellin' it to you. 'Mis' Lindsay, I can't stay
here no longer. I wisht to heavings I could, for you've given me a real home,' he says, 'but
I'm not at the bank no more, and I'm going away. I'm in trouble!' he says. 'I needn't tell
you where I'm goin' for I ain't got a friend who'll ask after me or care, but I just want to
thank you for all your kindness to me, an' to ask you to accept this present, and give this
dollar-bill to Delia, when she comes in from the fish-store.'

"This is what he give me as a present, ma'am!" Mrs. Lindsay pointed dramatically to a German
silver brooch set with a doubtful garnet, at her throat. "And I was so broke up over it all,
that I forgot and give Delia the whole dollar, instead of just a quarter, like I should've
done. I s'pose I'd ought to write to his folks, but I don't know where they are. He comes from
up-State somewheres, and I never was one to pry in a boarder's letters or bureau-drawers. I'm
just worried sick about it all!"

Mrs. Lindsay would have made a superb actress.

When the interview was at an end and Mrs. Pennold had rejoined her husband, they discussed
the disappearance of Alfred Hicks from every standpoint and came finally to the conclusion
that the young bank-clerk's sporting proclivities had brought him to ruin.

Meanwhile, in a modest cottage in Meadow Lane, in the Bronx, a small card reading "Room to
Let" had been removed from the bay window, and just behind its curtains a young man sat, his
eyes fastened upon the house across the way--the fourth from the end of the line. He was a
tall, dark young man with a smooth face and firm-set jaw, and his new land-lady knew him as
Guy Morrow.

All at once, as he sat watching, the door of the cottage opened, and a girl came out. There
was nothing remarkable about her; she was quite a common type of girl: slender, not too tall,
with a wealth of red-brown hair and soft hazel eyes; yet there was something about her which
made Guy Morrow catch his breath; and throwing caution to the winds, he parted the curtains
and leaned forward, looking down upon her. As she reached the gate, his gaze drew hers, and
she lifted her gentle eyes and looked into his.

Then her lids drooped swiftly; a faint flush tinged her delicate face, and with lowered head
she walked quickly on.

Guy Morrow sank back in his chair, and after the warm glow which had surged up so suddenly
within him, a chill crept about his heart. What could that slender, brown-haired, clear-eyed
girl be to the man he had been sent to spy upon--to Jimmy Brunell, the forger?

CHAPTER V

THE WILL

Henry Blaine sat in his office, leisurely turning over the pages of a morning newspaper; his
attitude was one of apparent idleness, but the occasional swift glances he darted at the clock
and a slight lifting of his eyebrows at the least sound from without betokened the fact that
he was waiting for some one or something.

His eyes scanned the columns of each page with seeming carelessness, yet their keen glances
missed not one significant phrase. And suddenly his gaze was transfixed by a paragraph tucked
away in a corner of the second page.

It was merely an account of trouble between capital and labor in a distant manufacturing city,
and a hint of an organized strike which threatened for the immediate future. The great detective
was not at all a politician, and the social and economic conditions of the day held no greater
import for him than for any other conscientious, far-seeing citizen of the country, yet he
sat for a long moment with wrinkled brow and pursed lips, musing, while the newspaper dropped
unheeded upon the desk.

His reverie was suddenly interrupted by the sharp, insistent tinkling of the telephone; a clear,
girlish voice came to him over the wire:

"Is this Grosvenor 0760? This is Miss Lawton speaking. An alteration must be made at once in
that last gown you sent me, and it is imperative that I see you in person concerning it. It
will be inconvenient for me to have you come here this morning. Where shall I see you? At your
establishment or--"

She paused suggestively, and he replied with a hurried question.

"It is absolutely necessary, Miss Lawton, that you see me in person? You are quite sure?"

"Absolutely." Her voice held a ring of earnestness and something more which caused him to jump
to a lightning-like decision.

"Very well. I will meet you in twenty minutes at your Working Girls' Club. I am an architect,
remember, and you wish to build a new and more improved institution of the same order on another
site. Therefore, you have met me there to show me over the old building and suggest changes
in its plans for the new one. You understand, Miss Lawton? My name is Banks, remember, and--be
a few minutes late."

"I understand perfectly. Thank you. Good-by."

The receiver at the other end of the line clicked abruptly, and the detective sprang to his feet.

A quarter of an hour later Blaine presented himself at the Anita Lawton Club, where a trim
maid ushered him into a tiny office. There, behind the desk, sat a girl, and at sight of her,
the detective, master of himself as he was, gave an imperceptible start.

He recovered himself at once, and presented the card which announced him as the senior member
of the firm of Banks and Frost, architects.

"Whom did you wish to see, sir?" The girl turned slowly about in her swivel chair and regarded
him respectfully but coolly. Her voice was low and gentle and distinctly feminine, yet it brought
to him again that haunting sense of resemblance which the first vision of her had caused.

"Miss Lawton," he replied, quietly.

"But Miss Lawton is not here." The girl's surprise was unfeigned.

"I have an appointment to meet her here at this time. She may perhaps have been detained. She
has arranged to go over the club building with me. As you see by my card, I am an architect
and she is planning more extensive work, I believe, along the lines instituted here--at least
that is the impression she has given my firm. I will wait a short time, if I may. You are connected
with the official work of the club?"

"I am the secretary." The girl paused and then added, "I understand perfectly, sir. Will you
be seated, please? Miss Lawton had not told me of her appointment here with you. She will without
doubt arrive shortly."

Henry Blaine seated himself, and as she started to turn back to her desk, he asked quickly:

"You must find the work here very interesting, do you not? We--our firm--have erected several
philanthropic institutions of learning and recreation, but none precisely on this order. Miss
Lawton has shown us the plans of this present club and we consider the arrangement of the dormitories
particularly ingenious, with regard to economy of space and the requisite sunlight and air."

"Oh, yes!" The girl turned toward him swiftly, her face suffused with interest. "Miss Lawton
drew all the plans herself, and they were not changed in the least. I don't see how they could
possibly be improved upon. Miss Lawton has done splendid work here, sir; the club has been
a wonderful success since it was first opened."

"It must have been." The detective paused, then added easily, "I know that her late father
was very proud of her executive ability. You--er--you educate young women here, do you not,
and train them for positions?"

"We not only train the members of the club, but obtain positions for them, with reputable business
firms," the girl answered.

"Indeed?" Blaine asked, with apparent surprise. "What sort of positions do the members of your
club fill?"

"Whatever they are capable of acquiring a working knowledge of. Filing clerks, stenographers,
secretaries, switchboard operators, telegraphers, even governesses. We have never had a failure,
and I think it is because Miss Lawton gives not only her personal attention, but real love
and faith to each girl. She is--wonderful."

The face of the young woman was rapt as she spoke, and Blaine could guess without further explanation
that she herself was a protégée of Miss Lawton's, and a grateful one--unless she were playing
a part. If so, she was an actress of transcendent ability.

"You say that you have never had a failure. That must, indeed, be encouraging," Blaine remarked,
tentatively. "Perhaps we might arrange later with you or Miss Lawton to place one or two of
your clerks or stenographers. We are enlarging our offices--"

"Good morning!" a fresh young voice interrupted him, and Anita Lawton stood upon the threshold.
"Did Mr. Banks come yet?--ah, yes, I see. How do you do?"

Blaine arose, and Anita gave him her hand cordially. His quick eyes observed that in passing
she patted the shoulder of her secretary affectionately, and the girl looked up at her quickly,
with eyes aglow. The truth was no longer concealed from his discernment. The girl was staunch
in every fiber of her being.

"Miss Lawton, I am sorry, but I have really not any too much time this morning. If we could
proceed to business at once."

"Certainly. If you will come this way, Mr. Banks--" At the door she paused, and turned to the
secretary: "I will see you later, dear."

Anita led the detective swiftly through the wide, clean halls and up the stairs, explaining
in clear, distinct tones the floor-plan. On the second floor she opened the door leading into
a little ante-room at the front of the house just over the office, and when they were seated,
she said quickly, with rising excitement, although her voice was carefully hushed.

"Mr. Bl--Banks, I have something to show you--my father's will! It was discovered, or rather,
produced, yesterday. The lawyers who have charge of the estate--Anderson & Wallace, you know--seem
to me to be perfectly disinterested, and honest, but I am so hedged in on every hand by a stifling
feeling of deceit and treachery that I feel I can trust no one save you and Mr. Hamilton--not
even poor old Ellen, my maid, who has been with me since I was born!"

"I quite understand, Miss Lawton, and I realize how difficult the situation is for you, but
I want you to trust no one--at least, to the extent of giving them your confidence. Now about
the will; it was produced by your late father's attorneys?"

"No, by President Mallowe, of the Street Railways. It appears that Father left it in his charge.
Mr. Anderson drew it; his partner, Mr. Wallace, witnessed it; and they both assure me that
it is absolutely authentic. Here it is."

She opened her bag and handed a long envelope to him, but at first his attention was held by
what she had said, and he frowned as he repeated quickly:

"'Authentic?' I trust you did not show any suspicion that you doubted for a moment that it
was genuine?"

"Oh, by no means! It was Mr. Anderson himself who took especial pains to assure me of its authenticity."

Blaine regarded the envelope reflectively for a moment before he raised the flap. Why had the
attorney considered it necessary to assure his late client's daughter that the will which he
had himself drawn was genuine?

The will was short and to the point. In it Pennington Lawton left everything of which he died
possessed to his daughter, unconditionally and without reservation.

"Of course, Miss Lawton, since you are only twenty, and your father has named no guardian or
trustee, the courts will at once appoint one, and I have no hesitation in saying that I believe
the guardian so appointed will be one of your father's three associates, presumably Mr. Mallowe.
However, that will make little difference in our investigation, and, since it is claimed that
all your father's huge fortune is lost, the matter of a guardian cannot tie our hands in any
way. Now, just a moment, please."

He drew from his pocket a small but powerful magnifying glass and the slip of paper which Ramon
Hamilton had sent him, on which was the signature of the late Pennington Lawton. Through the
microscope he carefully compared it with that affixed to the will and then looked up reassuringly.

"It is quite all right, Miss Lawton. In my estimation the will is authentic and your father's
signature genuine." He folded the paper, slipped it in its envelope and returned it to her.
"There is one thing now which I must most earnestly caution you against. Do not sign any paper,
no matter who wishes it or orders it--no matter if it is the most trivial household receipt.
Do not write any letters yourself, or notes to any one, even to Mr. Hamilton; you understand
they might be intercepted. If anyone wishes you to sign a paper relating to the matter of your
father's estate, say you cannot do so until you have shown it in private to Mr. Hamilton--that
you have promised you will not do so. Any other papers you can easily evade signing. As for
your private correspondence, obtain a social secretary, and permit her to sign everything--one
whom you can trust--say, one of your girls from here, that girl downstairs, for instance. What
is her name?"

Anita Lawton rose, and a peculiar pained expression passed over her features.

"I am sorry, Mr. Blaine--really, really I am sorry. I cannot tell you her name. That was one
of the conditions under which she came to us here--that is why I have given her an official
position here in the Club. She is staunch and faithful and true; I know it, I feel it; and
she is too high-principled to pass under any name not her own. I know and am heartily in sympathy
with the reason for her secretiveness. You know that I trust you implicitly, but I know you
would not have me go back on my word when once it has been given."

"Certainly not, Miss Lawton. I realize that many of your protégées here may come of unfortunate
antecedents. If you feel that you can trust her, use her. Do you feel equally sure of the other
members of your Club?"

"Absolutely. I feel that they all really love me; that they would do anything for me they could
in the world, and yet I have done so little for them--only given them the little help which
I was able to bestow, which we should all do for those less fortunate than ourselves.... Why
did you ask me, Mr. Blaine, if I felt that I could trust the girls who have placed themselves
under my care?"

"Because we may have need of them in the future. They may be of the most vital assistance to
us in this investigation, should events turn out as I anticipate and they prove worthy of the
charge it may be necessary for me to impose on them. But enough of that for now. If at any
time you wish to see me, personally, telephone me as you did this morning and I will meet you
here."

The detective left her in the office of the secretary, and as he made his adieus to them both
he cast a last quick, penetrating glance at the girl behind the desk. Again that vague sense
of resemblance possessed him. With whom was she connected? Why was her name so significantly
withheld?

In the meantime Guy Morrow, from his post of observation in the window of the little cottage
on Meadow Lane, had watched the object of his espionage for several fruitless days--fruitless,
because the actions of the man Brunell had been so obviously those of one who felt himself
utterly beyond suspicion.

The erect, gray-haired, clear-eyed man had come and gone about his business, without the slightest
attempt at concealment. A few of the simplest inquiries of his land-lady had elicited the fact
that the gentleman opposite, old Mr. Brunell, was a map-maker, and worked at his trade in a
little shop in the nearest row of brick buildings just around the corner--that he had lived
in the little cottage since it had first been erected, six years before, alone with his daughter
Emily, and before that, they had for many years occupied a small apartment near by--in fact,
the girl had grown up in that neighborhood. He was a quiet man, not very talkative, but well
liked by his neighbors, and his daughter was devoted to him. According to Mrs. Quinlan, Guy
Morrow's aforesaid land-lady, Emily Brunell was a dear, sweet girl, very popular among the
young people in the neighborhood, but she kept strictly at home in her leisure hours and preferred
her father's companionship to that of anyone else. She was employed in some business capacity
downtown, from nine until six; just what it was Mrs. Quinlan did not know.

Morrow kept well in the background, in case Mr. Pennold should put in an appearance again,
but he did not. Evidently that conversation overheard by Suraci had been a final one, concerning
the securities at least, and no one else called at the little cottage door over the way, except
a vapid-faced young man to whom Morrow took an instant and inexplicable dislike.

Morrow made it a point to visit and investigate the little shop at an hour when he knew Brunell
would not be there, and found in the cursory examination possible at that time that its purpose
seemed to be strictly legitimate. A shock-headed boy of fifteen or thereabout was in charge,
and the operative easily succeeded in engaging his stolid attention elsewhere while, with a
bit of soft wax carefully palmed in his left hand, he succeeded in gaining an impression of
the lock on the flimsy door. From this he had a key made in anticipation of orders from his
chief, requiring a thorough search of the little shop--orders which for the first time in his
career, he shrank from.

He made no effort to scrape an acquaintance with Brunell himself, but frequently encountered,
as if by accident, the daughter Emily, on her way to and from the subway station. If she recognized
in him the young lodger across the street, she made no sign, and as the days passed, Morrow,
the man, despaired of gaining her friendship, save through her father, whom Morrow--the operative--had
received orders not to approach personally.

Before he had seen her, had he known that the old forger possessed a daughter, he would have
laid his plans to worm himself into the confidence of the little family through the girl, but
having once laid eyes upon her face in all its gentle, trusting purity, every manly instinct
in him revolted at the thought of making her a tool of her father's probable downfall.

There was a third member of the Brunell household whom Morrow had observed frequently seated
upon the doorstep, or on one of the lower window sills--a small, scraggly black kitten, with
stiff outstanding fur, and an absurdly belligerent attitude whenever a dog chanced to pass
through the lane. It waited in the doorway each night for the return of its mistress, and in
the soft glow of the lamplight which streamed from within, he had seen her catch the little
creature up affectionately and cuddle it up against her neck before the door closed upon them.

One afternoon in the early November twilight, as Morrow was returning to his own door after
shadowing Brunell on an aimless and chilly walk, he saw the kitten lying curled up just outside
its own gate, and an inspiration sprang to his ingenious mind. He seated himself upon the steps
of Mrs. Quinlan's front porch and waited until the darkness had deepened sufficiently to cloak
his nefarious scheme. Then, with soft beguiling tone--and a few sotto voce remarks, for he
hated cats--Morrow began a deliberate attempt to entice the kitten across to him.

"Come here, kitty, kitty," he called softly. "Come, pussy dear! Come here, you mangy, rat-tailed
little beast! Come cattykins."

At his first words the kitten raised its head and regarded him with yellow eyes gleaming through
the dusk, in unconcealed antagonism. But, at the soft, purring flattery of his voice, the gleam
softened to a glow of pleased interest, and the little creature rose lazily, stretched itself,
and tripped lightly over to him, its tail erect in optimistic confidence.

Morrow picked it up gingerly by the neck and tucked it beneath his coat, stroking its head
with a reluctant thumb, while it purred loudly in sleepy content, at the warmth of its welcome.
The hour was approaching when Emily Brunell usually made her appearance, and he trusted to
luck to keep the little animal quiet until she had entered her home and discovered its loss,
but the fickle goddess failed him.

The kitten grew suddenly uneasy, as if some intuition warned it of treachery, and tried valiantly
to escape from his grasp, and never did Spartan boy with wolf concealed beneath his tunic suffer
more tortures than Morrow with the wretched little creature clawing at his hands.

Would Emily Brunell never come? What could be keeping her to-night, of all nights? Morrow gripped
the soft, elusive bundle of fur with desperate firmness and looked across the street. Evidently
he was not the only one impatient for her arrival. The doorway opposite had opened, and Jimmy
Brunell stood peering anxiously forth into the darkness.

At that moment the kitten emitted a fearsome yowl, which Morrow smothered hastily with his
coat. He fancied that the old man turned his head quickly and glanced in his direction, and
never had the operative felt guiltier.

Brunell, however, retired within, closing the door after him, and the kitten's struggles gradually
grew weaker and finally ceased.

Morrow felt a horrible fear surging up within him that he had strangled the little beast, and
his grasp gradually relaxed. Then he opened his overcoat cautiously and peered within. The
kitten was sleeping peacefully, and he heaved a sigh of relief, glancing up just in time to
see Emily Brunell pass quickly through her own gate and up to the door.

He sat motionless on the steps of Mrs. Quinlan's, and his patience was rewarded when after
a few moments the Brunell's door re-opened and he heard the girl's voice calling anxiously:
"Kitty! Kitty!"

Morrow rose with unfeigned alacrity and crossing the road, opened the little gate without ceremony
and mounted the steps of the porch.

"I beg your pardon," he said blandly. "Is this your kitten? It--er--wandered across the street
to me and fell asleep under my coat. I board just over the way, you know, with Mrs. Quinlan.
My name is Morrow."

The girl gave a little cry of relieved anxiety, and caught the kitten in her arms.

"Oh, I am so glad! I was afraid it was lost, and it is so tiny and defenseless to be out all
alone in the cold and darkness. Thank you so much, Mr. Morrow. I suppose it was waiting for
me, as it usually does, and grew restless at my delay, poor little thing! It was kind of you
to comfort it!"

Feeling like an utter brute, Morrow stammered a humble disclaimer of her undeserved gratitude,
and moved toward the steps.

"Oh, but it was really kind of you; most men hate cats, although my father loves them. I should
have been home much earlier but I was detained by some extra work at the club where I am employed."

"The club?" he repeated stupidly.

"Yes," replied the girl, quietly, cuddling the kitten beneath her chin. "The Anita Lawton Club
for Working Girls."

She caught herself up sharply, even as she spoke, and a look almost of apprehension crossed
her ingenuous face for a moment, and was gone.

"Thank you again for protecting my kitten for me," she said softly. "Good-night."

Guy Morrow walked down the steps and across to his own lodgings with his brain awhirl. The
investigation, through the medium of a small black kitten, had indeed taken an amazing turn.
Jimmy Brunell's daughter was a protégée of the daughter of Pennington Lawton!

CHAPTER VI

THE FIRST COUNTER-MOVE

The little paragraph in the newspaper, which, irrelevant as it would seem, had caught the keenly
discerning eye of Henry Blaine, grew in length and importance from day to day until it reached
a position on the first page, and then spread in huge headlines over the entire sheet. Instead
of relating merely the incidents of a labor strike in a manufacturing city--and that city a
far-distant one--it became speedily a sociological question of almost national import. The
yellow journals were quick to seize upon it at the psychological moment of civic unrest, and
throw out hints, vague but vast in their significance, of the mighty interests behind the mere
fact of the strike, the great financial question involved, the crisis between capital and labor,
the trusts and the common people, the workers and the wasters, in the land of the free.

Henry Blaine, seated in his office, read the scare-heads and smiled his slow, inscrutable,
illuminating smile--the smile which, without menace or rancor, had struck terror to the hearts
of the greatest malefactors of his generation--which, without flattery or ingratiation, had
won for him the friendship of the greatest men in the country. He knew every move in the gigantic
game which was being played solely for his attention, long before a pawn was lifted from its
place, a single counter changed; he had known it, from the moment that the seemingly unimportant
paragraph had met his eyes; and he also knew the men who sat in the game, whose hands passed
over the great chessboard of current events, whose brains directed the moves. And the stakes?
Not the welfare of the workingmen in that distant city, not the lifting of the grinding heel
of temporal power from the supine bodies of the humble--but the peace of mind, the honorable,
untarnished name, the earthly riches of the slender girl who sat in that great darkened house
on Belleair Avenue.

Hence Blaine sat back quietly, and waited for the decisive move which he knew to be forthcoming--waited,
and not in vain. The spectacular play to the gallery of one was dramatically accomplished;
it was heralded by extras bawled through the midnight streets, and full-page display headlines
in the papers the next morning.

Promptly on the stroke of nine, Henry Blaine arrived at his office, and as he expected, found
awaiting him an urgent telegram from the chief of police of the city where the strike had assumed
such colossal importance, earnestly asking him for his immediate presence and assistance. He
sent a tentative refusal--and waited. Still more insistent messages followed in rapid succession,
from the mayor of that city, the governor of that state, even its representative in the Senate
at Washington, to all of which he replied in the same emphatic, negative strain. Then, late
in the afternoon, there eventuated that which he had anticipated. Mohammed came to the mountain.

Blaine read the card which his confidential secretary presented, and laid it down upon the
desk before him.

"Show him in," he directed, shortly. He did not rise from his chair, nor indeed change his
position an iota, but merely glanced up from beneath slightly raised eyebrows, when the door
opened again and a bulky, pompous figure stood almost obsequiously before him.

"Come in, Mr. Carlis," he invited coolly. "Take this chair. What can I do for you?"

It was significant that neither man made any move toward shaking hands, although it was obvious
that they were acquainted, at least. The great detective's tone when he greeted his visitor
was as distinctly ironical as the latter's was uneasy, although he replied with a mirthless
chuckle, which was intended to be airily nonchalant.

"Nothing for me, Mr. Blaine--that is, not to-day. One can never tell in this period of sudden
changes and revolt, when our city may be stricken as another was just a few hours ago. There
is no better, cleaner, more honestly prosperous metropolis in these United States to-day, than
Illington, but--" Mr. Carlis, the political boss who had ruled for more than a decade in almost
undisputed sway, paused and gulped, as if his oratorical eloquence stuck suddenly in his throat.

The detective watched him passively, a disconcerting look of inquiring interest on his mobile
face. "It is because of our stricken sister city that I am here," went on the visitor. "I know
I will not be in great favor with you as an advocate, Mr. Blaine. We have had our little tilts
in the past, when you--er--disapproved of my methods of conducting my civic office and I distrusted
your motives, but that is forgotten now, and I come to you merely as one public-spirited citizen
to another. The mayor of Grafton has wired me, as has the chief of police, to urge you to proceed
there at once and take charge of the investigation into last night's bomb outrages in connection
with the great strike. They inform me that you have repeatedly refused to-day to come to their
assistance."

Blaine nodded.

"That is quite true, Mr. Carlis. I did decline the offers extended to me."

"But surely you cannot refuse! Good heavens, man, do you realize what it means if you do? It
isn't only that there is a fortune in it for you, your reputation stands or falls on your decision!
This is a public charge! The people rely upon you! If you won't, for some reason of your own,
come to the rescue now, when you are publicly called upon, you'll be a ruined man!" The voice
of the Boss ascended in a shrill falsetto of remonstrance.

"There may be two opinions as to that, Mr. Carlis," Blaine returned quietly. "As far as the
financial argument goes, I think you discovered long ago that its appeal to me is based upon
a different point of view than your own. You forget that I am not a servant of the public,
but a private citizen, free to accept or decline such offers as are made to me in my line of
business, as I choose. This affair is not a public charge, but a business proposition, which
I decline. As to my reputation depending upon it, I differ with you. My reputation will stand,
I think, upon my record in the past, even if every yellow newspaper in the city is paid to
revile me."

Carlis rested his plump hands upon his widespread knees, and leaned as far forward, in his
eager anxiety, as his obese figure would permit.

"But why?" he fairly wailed, his carefully rounded, oratorical tones forgotten. "Why on earth
do you decline this offer, Blaine? You've nothing big on hand now--nothing your operatives
can't attend to. There isn't a case big enough for your attention on the calendar! You know
as well as I do that Illington is clean and that the lid is on for keeps! The police are taking
care of the petty crimes, and there's absolutely nothing doing in your line here at the moment.
This is the chance of your career! Why on earth do you refuse it?"

"Well, Mr. Carlis, let us say, for instance, that my health is not quite as good as it was,
and I find the air of Illington agrees with it better just now than that of Grafton." Blaine
leaned back easily in his chair, and after a slight pause he added speculatively, with deliberate
intent, "I didn't know you had interests there!"

The Boss purpled.

"Look here, Blaine!" he bellowed. "What d'you mean by that?"

"Merely following a train of thought, Mr. Carlis," returned the detective imperturbably. "I
was trying to figure out why you were so desperately anxious to have me go to Grafton--"

"I tell you I am here at the urgent request of the mayor and the chief of police!" the fat
man protested, but faintly, as if the unexpected attack had temporarily winded him. "Why in
h--ll should I want you to go to Grafton?"

"Presumably because Grafton is some fourteen hundred miles from Illington," remarked Blaine,
his quietly unemotional tones hardening suddenly like tempered steel. "Going to try to pull
off something here in town which you think could be more easily done if I were away? Cards
on the table, Mr. Carlis! You tried to bribe me in a case once, and you failed. Then you tried
bullying me and you found that didn't work, either. Now you've come again with your hook baited
with patriotism, public spirit, the cry of the people and all the rest of the guff the newspapers
you control have been handing out to their readers since you took them over. What's the idea?"

The Boss rose, with what was intended for an air of injured dignity, but his fat face all at
once seemed sagged and wrinkled, like a pricked balloon.

"I did not come here to be insulted!" he announced in his most impressive manner. "I came,
as I told you, as a public-spirited citizen, because the officials of another city called upon
me to urge you to aid them. I have failed in my mission, and I will go. I am surprised, Blaine,
at your attitude; I thought you were too big a man to permit your personal antagonism to me
to interfere with your duty--"

For the first time during their interview Blaine smiled slightly.

"Have you ever known me, Mr. Carlis, to permit my personal antagonism to you or any other man
to interfere with what I conceive to be my duty?"

Before he replied, the politician produced a voluminous silk handkerchief, and mopped his brow.
For some reason he did not feel called upon to make a direct answer.

"Well, what reason am I to give to the Mayor of Grafton and its political leaders, for your
refusal? That talk about me trying to get you out of Illington, Blaine, is all bosh, and you
know it. I'm running Illington just as I've run it for the last ten years, in spite of your
interference or any other man's, and I'm going to stay right on the job! If you won't give
any other reason for declining the call to Grafton, than your preference for the air of Illington,
then the bets go as they lay!"

He jammed his hat upon his head, and strode from the room with all the ferocity his rotund
figure could express. The first decisive move in the game had failed.

The door was scarcely closed behind him, when Blaine turned to the telephone and called up
Anita Lawton on the private wire.

"Can you arrange to meet me at once, at your Working Girls' Club?" he asked. "I wish to suggest
a plan to be put into immediate operation."

"Very well. I can be there in fifteen minutes."

When the detective arrived at the club, he was ushered immediately to the small ante-room on
the second floor, where he found Anita anxiously awaiting him.

"Miss Lawton," he began, without further greeting than a quick handclasp, "you told me, the
other day, that your girls here were all staunch and faithful to you. Your secretary downstairs
had previously informed me that they were trained to hold positions of trust, and that you
obtained such positions for them. I want you to obtain four positions for four of the girls
in whom you place the most implicit confidence."

"Why, certainly, Mr. Blaine, if I can. Do you mean that they are to have something to do with
your investigation into my father's affairs?"

"I want them to play detective for me, Miss Lawton. Have you four girls unemployed at the moment?--Say,
for instance, a filing clerk, a stenographer, a governess and a switchboard operator, who are
sufficiently intelligent and proficient in their various occupations, to assume such a trust?"

"Why, yes, I--I think we have. I can find out, of course. Where do you wish to place them?"

"That is the most difficult part of all, Miss Lawton. You must obtain the positions for them.
These three men who stand in loco parentis toward you, as you say, and your spiritual adviser,
Dr. Franklin, who so obviously wishes to ingratiate himself with them, would none of them refuse
a request of this sort from you at this stage of the game, particularly if they are really
engaged in a conspiracy against you. Go to these four men--Mr. Mallowe first--and tell them
that because of the sudden, complete loss of your fortune, your club must be disorganized,
and beg them each to give one of your girls, special protégées of yours, a position. Send your
filing clerk to Mr. Mallowe, your most expert stenographer to Mr. Rockamore, your switchboard
operator to Mr. Carlis, and your governess into the household of your minister. I have learned
that he has three small children, and his wife applied only yesterday at an agency for a nursery
governess. The last proposition may be the most difficult for you to handle, but I think if
you manage to convey to the Reverend Dr. Franklin the fact that your three self-appointed guardians
have each taken one of your girls into their employ, in order to help them, and that his following
their benevolent example would bring him into closer rapport with them, no objection will be
made--provided, of course, the young woman is suitable."

"I will try, Mr. Blaine, but of course I can do nothing about that until to-morrow, as it is
so late in the afternoon. However, I can have a talk with the girls, if they are in now--or
would you prefer to interview them?"

"No, you talk with them first, Miss Lawton, and to-morrow morning while you are arranging for
their positions I will interview them and instruct them in their primary duties. I will leave
you now. Remember that the girls must be absolutely trustworthy, and the stenographer who will
be placed in the office of Mr. Rockamore must be particularly expert."

After the detective had taken his departure, Anita Lawton descended quickly to the office of
the secretary.

"Emily," she asked, "is Loretta Murfree in, or Fifine Déchaussée?"

"I think they both are, Miss Lawton. Shall I ring for them?"

"Yes, please, Emily; send them to me one at a time, in the ante-room, and let me know when
Agnes Olson and Margaret Hefferman come in. I wish to talk with all four of them, but separately."

Loretta Murfree was the first to put in an appearance. She was a short, dumpy, black-haired
girl of twenty, and she bounced into the room with a flashing, wide-mouthed smile.

"How are you, dear Miss Lawton? We have missed you around here so much lately, but of course
we knew that you must be very much occupied--"

She stopped and a little embarrassed flush spread over her face.

"I have been, Loretta. Thank you so much for your kind note, and for your share in the beautiful
wreath you girls sent in memory of my dear father."

"Sure, we're all of us your friends, Miss Lawton; why wouldn't we be, after all you've done
for us?"

"It is because I feel that, that I wanted to have a talk with you this afternoon. Loretta,
if a position were offered to you as filing clerk in the office of a great financier of this
city, at a suitable salary, would you accept it, if you could be doing me a great personal
service at the same time?"

"Would I, Miss Lawton? Just try me! I'd take it for the experience alone, without the salary,
and jump at the chance, even if you weren't concerned in it at all, but if it would be doing
you a service at the same time, I'm more than glad."

"Thank you, Loretta. The position will be with an associate of my father's, I think, President
Mallowe of the Street Railways. You must attend faithfully to your duties, if I am able to
obtain this place for you, but I think the main part of your service to me will consist of
keeping your eyes open. To-morrow morning a man will come here and interview you--a man in
whom you must place implicit confidence and trust, and whose directions you must follow to
the letter. He will tell you just what to do for me. This man is my friend; he is working in
my interests, and if you care for me you must not fail him."

"Indeed I won't, Miss Lawton! I'll do whatever he tells me.... You said that I was to keep
my eyes open. Does that mean that there is something you wish me to find out for you?" she
asked shrewdly.

"I cannot tell you exactly what you are to do for me, Loretta. The gentleman whom you are to
meet to-morrow morning will give you all the details." Anita Lawton approached the girl and
laid her hand on her shoulder. "I can surely trust you? You will not fail me?"

The quick tears sprang to the Irish girl's eyes, and for a moment softened their rather hard
brilliance.

"You know that you can trust me, Miss Lawton! I'd do anything in the world for you!"

Anita Lawton held a similar conversation with each of the three girls, with a like result.
To Fifine Déchaussée, a tall, refined girl, with the colorless, devout face of a religieuse,
the probability of entering a minister's home, as governess for his children, was most welcome.
The young French girl, homesick and alone in a strange land, had found in Anita Lawton her
one friend, and her gratitude for this first opportunity given her, seemed overwhelming. Margaret
Hefferman rejoiced at the possible opportunity of becoming a stenographer to the great promoter,
Mr. Rockamore; and demure, fair-haired little Agnes Olson was equally pleased with the prospect
of operating a switchboard in the office of Timothy Carlis, the politician.

Meantime, back in his office, Henry Blaine was receiving the personal report of Guy Morrow.

"The old man seems to be strictly on the level," he was saying. "He attends to his own affairs
and seems to be running a legitimate business in his little shop, where he prints and sells
maps. I went there, of course, to look it over, but I couldn't see anything crooked about it.
However, when I left, I took a wax impression of the lock, in case you wanted me to have a
key made and institute a more thorough investigation, at a time when I would not be disturbed."

"That's good, Morrow. We may need to do that later. At present I want you merely to keep an
eye on them, and note who their visitors are. You've been talking with the girl you say--the
daughter?"

"Yes, sir--" The young man paused in sudden confusion. "She's a very quiet, respectable, proud
sort of young woman, Mr. Blaine--not at all the kind you would expect to find the daughter
of an old crook like Jimmy Brunell. And by the way, here's a funny coincidence! She's a protégée
of Miss Lawton's, employed in some philanthropic home or club, as she calls it, which Pennington
Lawton's daughter runs."

"By Jove!" Blaine exclaimed, "I might have known it! I thought there was something familiar
about her appearance when I first saw her! No wonder Miss Lawton had promised not to divulge
her name. It's a small world, Morrow. I'll have to look into this. Go back now and keep your
eye on Jimmy."

"Very well, sir." Guy Morrow paused at the door and turned toward his chief. "Have you seen
the late editions of the evening papers, Mr. Blaine? They're all slamming you, for refusing
to accept the call to Grafton, to investigate those bomb outrages last night."

Henry Blaine smiled.

"There won't be any more of them," he remarked quietly. "That strike will die down as quickly
as it arose, Morrow; the whole thing was a plant, and the labor leaders and factory owners
themselves were merely tools in the hands of the politicians. That strike was arranged by our
friend Timothy Carlis, to get me away from Illington on a false mission."

"You don't think, sir, that they suspect--"

"No, but they are taking no chances on my getting into the game. They don't suspect yet, but
they will soon--because the time has come for us to get busy."

CHAPTER VII

THE LETTER

The next morning, when Ramon Hamilton presented himself at Henry Blaine's office in answer
to the latter's summons, he found the great detective in a mood more nearly bordering upon
excitability than he could remember having witnessed before. Instead of being seated calmly
at his desk, his thoughts masked with his usual inscrutable imperturbability, Blaine was pacing
restlessly back and forth with the disquietude, not of agitation, but of concentrated, ebullient
energy.

"I sent for you, Mr. Hamilton," he began, after greeting his visitor cordially and waving him
to a chair, "because we must proceed actively with the investigation into the alleged bankruptcy
of Pennington Lawton. We have been passive long enough for me to have gathered some significant
facts, but we now must make a salient move. The time hasn't yet come for me to step out into
the open. When I do, it will be a tooth-and-nail fight, and I must be equipped with facts,
not theories. I want some particulars about Mr. Lawton's insolvency, and there is no one who
could more naturally inquire into this without arousing suspicion than you."

"I don't need to tell you, Mr. Blaine, how anxious I am to do anything I can to help you, for
Miss Lawton's sake," Ramon Hamilton replied eagerly. "I should like to have looked into the
matter long ago--indeed, I felt that suspicion must have been aroused in the minds of Mallowe
and his associates by the fact that I accepted the astounding news of the bankruptcy as unquestioningly
as Miss Lawton herself, unless they thought me an addlepated fool--but I didn't want to go
ahead without direct instructions from you."

"I did not so direct you, Mr. Hamilton, for a distinct purpose. I wished the men we believe
to be responsible for the present conditions to be slightly puzzled by your attitude, so that
when the time came for you to begin your investigation, they would be more completely reassured.
In order to make your questioning absolutely bona fide, I want you to go first this morning
to the office of Anderson & Wallace, the late Mr. Lawton's attorneys, and question them as
if having come with Miss Lawton's authority. Don't suggest any suspicion of there being any
crookedness at work, but merely inquire as fully as possible into the details of Mr. Lawton's
business affairs. They will, in their replies, undoubtedly bring in Mr. Mallowe, Mr. Rockamore
and Mr. Carlis, which will give you a cue to go quite openly and frankly to one of the three--preferably
Mallowe--for corroboration. Knowing that you come direct from the late Mr. Lawton's attorneys,
he will be only too glad to give you whatever information he may possess or may have concocted--and
so lay open to you his plan of defense."

"Defense? You think, then, Mr. Blaine, that they anticipate possible trouble--exposure, even?
Surely such astute, far-seeing men as Mallowe and Rockamore are, at least, would not have attempted
such a gigantic fraud if they'd anticipated the possibility of being discovered! Carlis has
weathered so many storms, so many attacks upon his reputation and civic honor, that he may
have felt cocksure of his position and gone into this thing without thought for the future,
but the other two are men of different caliber, men with everything in the world to lose."

"And colossal, unearned wealth to gain--don't forget that, Mr. Hamilton. Men of different caliber,
I grant you, but all three in the same whirlpool of crime, bound by thieves' law to sink or
swim together. It is because they are astute and far-seeing that they must inevitably have
considered the possibility of exposure and safeguarded themselves against it with bogus corroborative
proof. If that proof is in tangible form, and we can lay our hands on it, we shall have them
where we want them. Now go back to your office, Mr. Hamilton, and dictate this letter to your
stenographer, having it left open on your desk for your signature. Don't wait for the letter
to be typed, but proceed at once to the office of Anderson & Wallace. You, as a lawyer, will
of course know the form of inquiry to use."

The detective handed Ramon Hamilton a typewritten sheet of paper from his desk; and the young
man, after hastily perusing it, gazed with a blank stare of amazement into Blaine's eyes.

"I can't make this out," he objected. "Who on earth is Alexander Gibbs, and what has he to
do with Miss Lawton's case? This letter seems to inform one Alexander Gibbs that I have retained
you to recover for us the last will and testament of his aunt, Mrs. Dorothea Gibbs. I have
no such client, and I know no one in--what's the address?--Ellenville, Sullivan County."

Blaine smiled.

"Of course you don't, Mr. Hamilton. Nevertheless, you will sign that letter and your secretary
will mail it--that is, after it has lain open upon your desk for casual inspection for a considerable
length of time. One of my operatives will receive it in Ellenville."

"But what has it to do with the matter in hand?" Ramon asked.

"Everything. I understand that you employ quite an office force, for an attorney who has so
recently been admitted to the bar, and who has necessarily had little time yet to build up
an extensive practice. There may be a spy in your office--remember that as Miss Lawton's fiancé
and her only protector in this crisis, you are the one whom they would safeguard themselves
against primarily. When I called you up this morning, to ask you to come here, you very indiscreetly
mentioned my name over the telephone. Your entire office force will know that you have been
to consult me--this letter will throw them off the track should there be a spy among them,
and will also give you a legitimate excuse to call upon me frequently in the immediate future.
You realize that we also must safeguard ourselves, Mr. Hamilton."

The young man reddened.

"Of course. I did not think--I called you by name inadvertently," he stammered. "I'll be more
discreet in the future, Mr. Blaine."

"Memorize the gist of the letter on your way to your office--particularly the name and address--and
place it securely in your vest pocket. When you have left your office to go to Anderson & Wallace,
destroy it carefully. You had best, perhaps, stop in the lavatory of some restaurant or public
bar and burn it, or tear it into infinitesimal pieces. Remember that everything depends upon
you now--upon your discretion and diplomacy."

Hamilton followed Blaine's instructions to the letter, and an hour after he had left the detective
he was closeted with the senior member of the firm of Anderson & Wallace.

"My dear Mr. Hamilton, we have had so little time," Mr. Anderson expostulated. "Remember that
Mr. Lawton's death occurred little more than a fortnight ago, and even the most cursory examination
has shown us that his affairs were in a most chaotic condition. It will take us weeks, months,
to settle up so involved an estate.

"At present we can give you little information. It is by no means certain that Mr. Lawton was
an absolute bankrupt--we have not yet assured ourselves that nothing can be saved from the
wreckage. You cannot imagine how aghast, thunderstruck, we were, when this present state of
affairs was made known to us. We have been Mr. Lawton's attorneys for more than twenty years,
and we thought that we knew every detail of his multifarious transactions, but for some reason
which we cannot fathom he saw fit, within the last two years, to change his investments without
taking us into his confidence--and with disastrous results."

"Mr. Lawton was always conservative. He took no one fully into his confidence," Ramon Hamilton
replied guardedly.

"You knew, of course, that he had ideas about the disposal of his vast wealth which many other
financiers would consider peculiar. He would never invest in real estate, to our knowledge.
His millions were placed entirely in stocks and bonds, and for years he had stated that his
object was, in the event of his death, to save his daughter and the trustees from unnecessary
trouble over real-estate matters. This makes his later conduct all the more inexplicable. Mr.
Mallowe has told me that Mr. Lawton made several suggestions to him and to his associates,
Mr. Rockamore and Mr. Carlis, to go with him into the unfortunate speculations which ultimately
caused his ruin. They were far-seeing enough to refuse."

"Just what were these speculations, Mr. Anderson?"

"I can't tell you at this moment. You'll understand that we don't wish to make any statement
until we can do so definitely, and we are still, as I said, quite at sea. We'll try to straighten
everything out as soon as possible, and give you and Miss Lawton a full report. In the meantime,
why not consult Mr. Mallowe? He can give you more explicit information concerning the late
Mr. Lawton's speculation and final insolvency than we shall be able to do for some time; or
possibly, Mr. Rockamore, or even Mr. Carlis might enlighten you. All three seem to have been
more conversant with Mr. Lawton's affairs than we, his attorneys."

The dignified old gentleman's voice held a note of pained resentment, with which Ramon Hamilton
could not help but sympathize.

"I will adopt your suggestion, Mr. Anderson, and call upon Mr. Mallowe at once. I can no more
understand than you can how it happens that Mr. Lawton should have confided to such an extent
in his business associates, to the exclusion of you and Mr. Wallace--to say nothing of his
own daughter; but doubtless there were financial reasons which we'll learn. I will take up
no more of your valuable time, but will try to see Mr. Mallowe immediately. If I learn any
facts you're not now in possession of, I'll let you know at once."

Mr. Mallowe, when approached over the telephone, welcomed most cordially the proposed interview
with Miss Lawton's fiancé. When the latter arrived, he was greeted with a warm, limp hand-clasp,
and seated confidentially close to the president of the Street Railways.

"Mr. Anderson did well to suggest your coming to me, Mr. Hamilton," the magnate remarked unctuously.
"I believe I am in a position to give you a more comprehensive idea of the circumstances which
brought about my esteemed friend's unfortunate financial collapse at the time of his death
than my colleagues, because I was closer to him in many ways, and I am confident that he regarded
me as his best friend. However, I don't feel that I can, in honor, violate the confidence of
the dead by giving any details just now--even to you and Miss Lawton--of matters which have
not yet been fully substantiated by the attorneys. I know only from Mr. Lawton's own private
statements that he was interested, to the point one might almost say of mania, in a gigantic
scheme from which we, his friends, tried in vain to dissuade him. He urged me especially to
go in on it with him, but because of the very position I hold, it would have been impossible
for me to consider it, even if my better judgment hadn't warned me against it."

"Can't you give me some idea of the nature of this scheme?" Ramon asked. "I can't believe,
any more easily than Miss Lawton can, that there could have been anything that was not thoroughly
open and above-board about her father's dealings. Surely, there can be no reason for this extraordinary
secrecy, particularly as the newspapers had given to the world at large the unauthorized statement,
from a source unknown to Miss Lawton or myself, that Pennington Lawton died a bankrupt!"

The young man drew himself up sharply, as if fearful of having said too much, and for a moment
there was silence. Then Mr. Mallowe leaned back easily in his chair and, removing his tortoise-shell
rimmed eyeglasses, tapped the desk thoughtfully with them as he replied:

"That was regrettable, of course, Mr. Hamilton. It must have been distressing in the extreme
to Miss Lawton, coming just at this time, but it would have had to be revealed sooner or later,
you know--such a stupendous fact could not be hidden. There is no extraordinary secrecy about
the matter. When the attorneys have completed their settlement of the estate, everything will
be clear to you and Miss Lawton. I must naturally decline to give you any explanation which
would be, just now, merely an uncorroborated opinion. I appreciate your feelings in this sudden,
almost overwhelming trouble which has come to Miss Lawton, and I sympathize with both of you
most heartily; but one must have patience. You will pardon me, but you are both very young,
and that is the hardest lesson of all for you to learn."

His watery eyes beamed in fatherly benevolence upon Ramon, and Anita's fiancé felt his gorge
rising. The older man reminded him irresistibly of a cat licking its chops before a canary's
cage, and it was with difficulty he restrained himself to remark coldly:

"You told me at the beginning of this interview, Mr. Mallowe, that I did well in coming to
you, since you could give me a more comprehensive idea of the circumstances than anyone else,
yet you have disclosed nothing beyond a few vague suggestions--to any other man I should have
said, insinuations--and generalities which we were already familiar with. Can't you give me
any real information?"

"My dear boy, I intend to tell you all that I know and can verify." The silky smoothness of
the magnate's tones had deepened in spite of himself, with a steely undernote.

"I don't know when the project which spelled his ruin was first conceived by Mr. Lawton, but
I believe that he started to put it into active operation over three years ago. He went into
it with his usual cold nerve, and then, when the pendulum did not swing his way he kept heaping
more and more of his securities on the pyre of his ambition and pride in himself, until he
was forced to obtain large loans. That he did seek and obtain such loans I can prove to you
at the present moment, in one instance at least, for it was through me the affair was negotiated.
I think he fully realized his enormous error, but refused to admit it even to himself, and
strove by sheer force of will-power to carry a hopeless scheme to success."

"Sought loans! He--Pennington Lawton required loans and obtained them through you?" Ramon almost
started from his chair. "Mr. Mallowe, you will forgive me, but I can scarcely credit it. I
know, of course, that financiers, even those who conduct their operations on a far lesser scale
than Mr. Lawton, frequently seek loans, but your manner and your speech just now led me to
believe that you had some other motive in doing what you did for Mr. Lawton. From what you
have told me I gather that it was owing more to your friendship for him, than to your financial
relations, that he called upon you at that time."

"And it was to my friendship at that time that he appealed, Mr. Hamilton."

"Appealed? I cannot imagine Pennington Lawton appealing to any man. Why should he appeal to you?"

"Because, my dear boy, he was in a mighty bad fix when he had need to call upon me. Oh, by
the way, I have the letter here in my safe--I found it only the other day."

"The letter? What letter?"

"The letter Mr. Lawton wrote me from Long Bay asking me to get Mr. Moore's help in the matter--here
it is."

Mallowe went to his safe, and opening it, withdrew from an inner drawer a paper which he presented
to the young lawyer. After a cursory examination Ramon placed it upon the desk before him,
and turning to Mr. Mallowe said:

"I am awfully sorry to have annoyed you with this matter, but you understand exactly how Miss
Lawton and I feel about it--"

"Of course, Mr. Hamilton, I realize the situation fully. I am glad to have had this opportunity
to explain to you how the matter stood as far as I personally was concerned. You know I will
do anything that I can for Miss Lawton and I trust that you will call upon me."

He rose with ponderous significance as if to state tacitly that the interview was at an end,
but the younger man did not stir from his chair.

"This letter came to you--when did you say, Mr. Mallowe?"

"When Pennington Lawton and his daughter were at The Breakers at Long Bay, about two years
ago last August, as nearly as I can remember."

"If you still had the envelope, we could obtain the exact date from the postmark," Ramon suggested
significantly. "The letter I see is only headed 'Saturday.'"

"Yes, it is unfortunate that I did not keep it," the magnate retorted a little drily. "It was
by the merest, most fortunate chance that the letter itself came to light. However, I cannot
see at this late date what difference it could possibly make when the letter was mailed, since
it establishes beyond any possibility of doubt the fact that it was mailed. As to the matter
of the negotiation of the loan, I would prefer that you apply to Mr. Moore himself for the
particulars concerning it. I am sure that he will be quite as glad as I have been to give you
such definite information as he possesses."

This time the dismissal could not be ignored, and Ramon Hamilton took his departure, but not
before he had marked well the particular drawer within the safe from which the letter had been
taken.

As he went down the corridor, a saucy, red-cheeked young woman with business briskness in her
manner came from an inner office and smiled boldly at him. She was Loretta Murfree, the new
filing clerk who had been installed only that morning in Mr. Mallowe's office.

Had Ramon known her to be the protégée of Anita Lawton and the spy of Henry Blaine, he might
have glanced at her a second time.

The young man proceeded straight to the offices of Charlton Moore, the banker, and found that
an interview was readily granted him. Mr. Moore remembered the incident of the loan, and his
private accounts showed that it had been made on the sixteenth of August two years previously.

"Mr. Mallowe arranged the matter with you for Mr. Lawton, did he not?" Ramon asked.

"Yes, it was a purely confidential affair. Mr. Carlis came with him to interview me. They did
not at first tell me that Mr. Lawton positively desired the loan, but they made tentative arrangements
asking if I would be in a position to give it to him should he desire it, and they said they
came to me at this early date desiring to make no definite statement. Mr. Lawton had told them
that once before I had accommodated him by carrying a note confidentially at his request. Of
course I did not care to commit myself, as you can readily understand, Mr. Hamilton, until
I was assured the proposition was bona fide.

"Mr. Mallowe and Mr. Carlis suggested that I call Mr. Lawton up on the private wire in his
office, but the matter was so delicate that as long as he had not come to me in person I did
not care to telephone him. Mr. Mallowe showed me a letter which he had recently received from
Pennington Lawton corroborating his statement. But in the matter of the amount desired we could
not definitely distinguish the figures. Mr. Mallowe was sure that it was three hundred and
fifty thousand dollars. Mr. Carlis was equally certain that it was three hundred and eighty-five
thousand. To make certain of the matter they called Mr. Lawton up from my office here in my
presence, and he stated that the sum desired was three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
There was only one odd thing about the entire transaction, and that was a remark Mr. Mallowe
made as he was leaving. After the negotiations had been completed he turned and said, 'You
understand, Mr. Moore, that Mr. Lawton is so careful, so secretive, that he does not wish this
matter ever mentioned to him personally, even if you think yourself absolutely alone with him.'"

"Mr. Lawton was a very peculiar man in many ways," Ramon said meditatively. "His methods of
conducting his affairs were not always easily understood. The negotiations were then completed
shortly thereafter?"

"Yes, within a few days. I turned the amount required over to Mr. Mallowe and Mr. Carlis, and
accepted Mr. Lawton's note. I will show it to you if you care to see it."

"That will not be necessary, Mr. Moore, but I am going to make a request that may seem very
strange to you. Should it be necessary, would you be willing to show that note to some one
whom I may bring here to you--some one who may prefer not to see you personally, but merely
to be permitted to examine the note in the presence of some responsible people of your own
choosing?"

"Certainly, Mr. Hamilton. I think I can safely promise that. But what does it mean--is there
anything wrong with Pennington Lawton's note?"

"Not that I am aware of, Mr. Moore," Ramon answered, laughing rather shortly. "I am unable
to explain just now, but I think the name of Pennington Lawton carries with it a sufficient
guarantee that the note will be honored when it is presented."

An hour later, at the close of the busiest day he had experienced since his graduation from
the law school, young Hamilton presented himself at Henry Blaine's office. The detective listened
in silence to his story, and at its conclusion remarked quietly: "You did well, Mr. Hamilton.
I am going to call one of my operatives and ask you to repeat to him in detail the location
of that safe in Mallowe's office and the drawer which contains Mr. Lawton's letter from Long Bay."

"Anyone would think you meant to steal it, Mr. Blaine."

Young Hamilton's laugh was now unrestrained. "There couldn't possibly be anything wrong with
the note or the entire transaction. Mr. Moore proved that when he told me how Mr. Mallowe and
Carlis called up Mr. Lawton in his presence on his private wire and discussed the negotiations."

"Are you sure that they did, Mr. Hamilton?" The detective suddenly leaned forward across his
desk, his body tense, his eyes alight with fervid animation. "Are you sure Pennington Lawton
ever received that message?"

"He must have. According to Mr. Moore, the two men used Mr. Lawton's private wire, the number
of which was known only to a few of his closest intimates and which of course was not listed."

"But some one who knew that the telephone message was coming might readily have been in Lawton's
office seated at his desk, alone, and replied to it in the financier's name. Do you understand,
Mr. Hamilton? The note may be a forgery, the letter may be a forgery; that we shall soon know.
If it is, and the money so obtained from Moore has been converted to the use of the three confederates
whom we suspect to have formed a conspiracy to ruin Miss Lawton, then her father's entire fortune
might have been seized upon in virtually the same way."

Henry Blaine rose and paced back and forth as if almost oblivious of the other's presence.
"The mortgage of his was forged--we have proved that," he continued. "Why, then, should not
every other available security have been stolen in practically the same way?" he continued.

"But how would anyone dare? The whole thing is too bare-faced," Ramon expostulated. "A man
like Mr. Moore could not have been imposed upon by a mere forgery."

"But if that note proves to be a forgery, Mr. Hamilton, and the letter as well--we shall have
picked up a tangible clue at last. I think I am beginning to see daylight."

Late that night in the huge suite of offices of President Mallowe of the Street Railways, a
very curious scene took place. The stolid watchman who had been on uneventful duty there for
twenty years had made his rounds for the last time. With superb nonchalance, he settled himself
for his accustomed nap in his employer's chair. From the stillness and gloom of the semi-deserted
office-building two stealthy figures descended swiftly upon him, their feet sinking noiselessly
into the rich pile of the rugs. A short, silent struggle, a cloth saturated with chloroform
pressed heavily over his face, and the guardian of the premises lay inert. The shorter, more
stocky of the two nocturnal visitors, without more ado switched on a pocket electric light
and made a hasty but thorough survey of the room. The taller one shrank back inadvertently
from the drug-stilled body in the chair, then resolutely turned and knelt beside his companion
before the safe. He dreaded to think of what discovery might mean. If he, Ramon Hamilton, were
to be caught in the act of burglarizing, his career as a rising young lawyer would be at an
end. The risk indeed was great, but he had promised Henry Blaine every aid in his power to
help the girl he loved.

After a minute examination, the operative proceeded to work upon the massive safe door. Soon
the great doors swung noiselessly back and the manifold compartments within were revealed.

The young lawyer pointed out the drawer from which he had seen President Mallowe remove the
letter that morning, and it, too, yielded quickly to the master-touch of the expert. There,
on the very top of a pile of papers, lay the written page they sought.

"He'll be all right. We haven't done for him, have we?" Ramon Hamilton whispered anxiously,
pointing to the watchman's unconscious form, as, their mission accomplished, they stole from
the room.

"Surest thing you know. He'll come to in half an hour, none the worse," the operative responded.
"We made a good clean job of it."

Henry Blaine could hardly suppress his elation when they laid the letter before him on their
return to his office.

"It's a forgery, just as I suspected," he exclaimed, with supreme satisfaction. "Look, Hamilton;
I'll show you how it was done."

"It is incredible. I can scarcely believe it. I know Pennington Lawton's handwriting as well
as I know my own, and I could swear that his fingers guided the pen. His writing was as distinctive
as his character."

"It's that very fact," the detective returned, "which would have made it easier to copy; but,
as it happens, you are partially right. This was not a forgery in the ordinary sense. Those
are Pennington Lawton's own words before you, in his own handwriting."

"Then how--" the young lawyer inquired, in a bewildered tone.

Henry Blaine smiled.

"You do not intend to specialize in criminal law, do you, Mr. Hamilton?" he remarked whimsically.
"If you do, you will have to be up in the latest tricks of the trade. The man who forged this
letter--the same man, by the way, forged the signature on that mortgage--accomplished it like
this: He took a bundle of Mr. Lawton's old letters, cut out the actual words he desired, and
pasted 'em in their proper order on the letter paper. Then he photographed this composite,
and electrotyped it--that is, transferred it to a copperplate, and etched it. Then he re-photographed
it, and in this way got an actual photograph of a supposedly authentic communication. There
is only one man in this country who is capable of such perfect work. I know who that man is
and where to find him."

"Then if you can locate him before he skips, and make him talk, you will have won the victory,"
Ramon exclaimed, jubilantly.

But the detective shook his head.

"The time is not yet ripe for that. The man is, in my estimation, a mere tool in the hands
of the men higher up. He may not be able to give us any actual proof against them, and our
exposure of him will only tip them off--put 'em on their guard. We needn't show our hand just yet."

"What's the next move to be, then?" the young lawyer asked. "I don't mean, of course, that
I wish to inquire into your methods of handling the case--but have you any further commissions
for me?"

"Only to accompany me to-morrow morning to the office of Charlton Moore and let me examine
that note which Mr. Lawton presumably gave two years ago. Afterward, I have four little amateur
detectives of mine to interview--then I think we'll be able to proceed straight to our goal."

The note also, as Henry Blaine had predicted, proved to be a forgery and to have been executed
by the same hand as the letter.

The detective betrayed to the unsuspecting banker no sign of his elation at the discovery,
but following their interview he returned to his office and sent for the four young girls whom
he had taken from the Anita Lawton Club and installed in the offices of the men he suspected.

The first to respond was Margaret Hefferman, who had been sent as stenographer to Rockamore,
the promoter.

"You followed my instructions, Miss Hefferman," asked Blaine. "You kept a list for me of Mr.
Rockamore's visitors?"

"Yes, sir. I have it here in my bag. I also brought carbon copies of two letters which Mr.
Rockamore dictated and which I thought might have some bearing on the matter in which you are
interested--although I could not quite understand them myself."

"Let me see them, please."

Blaine took the documents and list of names, scanning them quickly and sharply with a practised
eye. The names were those of the biggest men in the city--bankers, brokers, financiers and
promoters. Among them, that of President Mallowe and Timothy Carlis appeared frequently. At
only one did Henry Blaine pause--at that of Mark Paddington. He had known the man as an employee
of a somewhat shady private detective agency several years before and had heard that he had
later been connected in some capacity with the city police, but had never come into actual
contact with him.

What business could a detective of his caliber have to do with Bertrand Rockamore?

The letters were short and cryptic in their meaning, and significant only when connected with
those to whom they were addressed. The first was to Timothy Carlis; it read:

    Your communication received. We must proceed with the utmost
    care in this matter. Keep me advised of any further
    contingencies which may arise. P. should know or be able to
    find out. The affair is to his interests as much as ours.

                                                           B. R.

The second was addressed to Paddington:

    Have learned from C. that your assistants are under espionage.
    What does it mean? Learn all particulars at once and advise.

                                                              R.

"You have done well, Miss Hefferman," said Blaine as he looked up from the last of the letters.
"I will keep these carbon copies and the list. Let me know how often Mr. Mallowe and Timothy
Carlis call, and try particularly to overhear as much as possible of the man Paddington's conversation
when he appears."

When the young stenographer had departed, Fifine Déchaussée appeared. She was the governess
who had been sent to the home of Doctor Franklin, ostensibly to care for his children, but
in reality to find, if possible, what connection existed between Carlis, Mallowe, Rockamore
and himself. The young Frenchwoman's report was disappointingly lacking in any definite result--save
one fact. The man Paddington had called twice upon the minister, remaining the second time
closeted with him in his study for more than an hour. Later, he had intercepted her when she
was out with the children in the park; but she had eluded his attentions.

"I wish you hadn't done so. If he makes any further attempt to talk with you, Mademoiselle
Déchaussée, encourage him, draw him out. If he tries to question you about yourself and where
you came from, don't mention the Anita Lawton Club, but remember his questions carefully and
come and tell me."

"Certainly, m'sieur, I shall remember."

Agnes Olson and Laurette Murfree, the switchboard operator to Carlis and filing clerk to Mallowe,
respectively, added practically the same information as had the two preceding girls. Mark Paddington,
the detective, had been in frequent communication with each of their employers. When the young
women had concluded their reports and gone, Blaine telephoned at once to Guy Morrow, his right-hand
operative, and instructed him to watch for Paddington's appearance in the neighborhood of the
little house in the Bronx, where they had located Brunell, the one-time forger.

CHAPTER VIII

GUY MORROW FACES A PROBLEM

Morrow, meanwhile, had slowly become aware that he had a problem of his own to face, the biggest
of his life. Should he go on with his work? In the event that James Brunell proved, indeed,
to be guilty of the forgeries of which he was suspected by the Master Mind, it would mean that
he, Morrow, would have betrayed the father of the girl he felt himself beginning to care for.
Dared he face such a tremendous issue?

His acquaintance with Emily Brunell had progressed rapidly in the few days since his subterfuge
had permitted him to speak to her. He had met her father and found himself liking the tall,
silent man who went about the simple affairs of his life with such compelling dignity and courteous
aloofness. Brunell had even invited him to his little shop and shown him with unsuspecting
enthusiasm his process for making the maps which were sold to the public schools.

Morrow had seen no evidence of anything wrong, either in the little shop or the home life of
the father and daughter; nor had he observed Paddington--who was well known to him--in the
neighborhood.

Even in these few mornings it had become a habit with him to watch for Emily and walk with
her to her subway station, and as frequently as he dared, he would await her arrival in the
evening. After his last telephone conversation with Blaine, he called upon the two in the little
house across the way, determined to find out, if possible, if the man Paddington had come into
their lives. He felt instinctively that James Brunell would prove a difficult subject to cross-examine.
The man seemed to be complete master of himself, and were he guilty, could never be led into
an admission, unless some influence more powerful than force could be brought to bear upon him.

But the girl, with her clear eyes and unsuspecting, inexperienced mind, could easily be led
to disclose whatever knowledge she possessed, particularly if her interest or affections were
aroused. It seemed cowardly, in view of his newly awakened feelings toward her, but he had
committed far more unscrupulous acts without a qualm, in the course of his professional work.

Brunell was out when he called, but Emily led him into the little sitting-room, and for a time
they talked in a desultory fashion. Morrow, who had brought so many malefactors to justice
by the winning snare of his personality, felt for once at a loss as to how to commence his
questioning.

But the girl herself, guilelessly, gave him a lead by beginning, quite of her own accord, to
talk of her early life.

"It seems so strange," she remarked, confidingly, "to have been so completely alone all of
my life--except for Daddy, of course."

"You have no brothers or sisters, Miss Brunell?" asked the detective.

"None--and I never knew my mother. She died when I was born."

Morrow sighed, and involuntarily his hand reached forward in an expression of complete sympathy.

"Daddy has been mother and father to me," the girl went on impulsively. "We have always lived
in this neighborhood, ever since I can remember, and of course we know everyone around here.
But with my downtown position and Father's work in the shop, we've had no time to make real
friends and we haven't even cared to--before."

"Before when?" he asked with a kindly intonation not at all in keeping with the purpose which
had actuated him in seeking her friendship.

"Before you brought my kitten back to me." She paused, suddenly confused and shy, then added
hurriedly, "We have so few guests, you know. Daddy, somehow, doesn't care for people--as a
rule, that is. I'm awfully glad that he has made an exception with you."

"But surely you have other friends--for instance, that young fellow I've noticed now and again
when he called upon you."

Morrow's thoughts had suddenly turned to that unknown visitor toward whom he had taken such
an unaccountable dislike.

"Young fellow--what young fellow?" Emily Brunell's voice had changed, slightly, and a reserved
little note intruded itself which reminded Morrow all at once of her father.

"I don't know who he is--I'm such a newcomer in the neighborhood, you know; but I happened
to see him from my window across the way--a short, dapper-looking young chap with a small,
dark mustache."

"Oh! that man." Her lip curled disdainfully. "That's Charley Pennold. He's no friend of mine.
He just comes to see Father now and again on business. I don't bother to talk to him. I don't
think Daddy likes him very much, either."

She caught her breath in sharply as she spoke, and looked away from Morrow in sudden reserve.
He felt a quick start of suspicion, and searched her averted face with a keen, penetrating glance.

If this Charley Pennold, whoever he might be, wished to see James Brunell on legitimate business,
why did he not go to his shop openly and above-board in the day-time? Could he be an emissary
from some one whom the old forger had reason to evade? If he were, did Emily know for what
purpose he came, and was she annoyed at her own error in involuntarily disclosing his name?

"He is a map-maker, too?" leaped from Morrow's lips.

"He is interested in maps--he gives Daddy large orders for them, I believe."

Emily spoke too hurriedly, and her tones lacked the ring of sincerity which was habitual with them.

The trained ear of the detective instantly sensed the difference, and his heart sank.

So she had lied to him deliberately, and her womanly instinct told her that he knew it.

She began to talk confusedly of trivialities; and Morrow, seeing that it would be hopeless
to attempt to draw her back to her unguarded mood, left her soon after--heartsick and dejected.

Should he continue with his investigations, or go to Henry Blaine and confess that he had failed
him? Was this girl, charming and innocent as she appeared, worth the price of his career--this
girl with the blood of criminals in her veins, who would stoop to lies and deceit to protect
them? Yet had not he been seeking deliberately to betray her and those she loved, under the
guise of friendship? Was he any better than she or her father?

Then, too, another thought came to him. Might she not be the tool, consciously or unconsciously,
of a nefarious plot?

He felt that he could not rest until he had brought his investigations to a conclusion which
would be satisfactory to himself, even if he decided in the end, for her sake, never to divulge
to Henry Blaine the discoveries he might make.

A few days later, however, Morrow received instructions from Blaine himself, which forced his
hand. The time had come for him to use the skeleton-key which he had had made. He must proceed
that night to investigate the little shop of the map-maker and look there for the evidence
which would incriminate him--the photographic and electrotyping apparatus.

Early in the evening he heard Emily's soft voice as she called across the street in pleasant
greeting to Miss Quinlan, but he could not bring himself to go out upon the little porch and
speak to her, although he did not doubt his welcome.

He waited until all was dark and still before he started upon his distasteful errand. It was
very cold, and the streets were deserted. A fine dry snow was falling, which obliterated his
footprints almost as soon as he made them, and he reached the now familiar door of the little
shop without meeting a soul abroad save a lonely policeman dozing in a doorway. He let himself
into the shop with his key and flashed his pocket lamp about. All appeared the same as in the
day-time. The maps were rolled in neat cases or fastened upon the wall. The table, the press,
the binder were each in their proper place.

Morrow went carefully over every inch of the room and the curtained recess back of it, but
could find no evidence such as he sought. At length, however, just before the little desk in
the corner where James Brunell kept his modest accounts, the detective's foot touched a metal
ring in the floor. Stepping back from it, he seized the ring and pulled it. A small square
section of the flooring yielded, and the raising of the narrow trap-door disclosed a worn,
sanded stone stairway leading down into the cellar beneath.

Blaine's operative listened carefully but no sound came from the depths below him; so after
a time, with his light carefully shielded, he essayed a gingerly descent. On the bottom step
he paused. There was small need for him to go further. He had found what he sought. Emily Brunell's
father was a forger indeed!

CHAPTER IX

GONE!

Guy Morrow, after a sleepless night, presented himself at Henry Blaine's office the next morning.
The great detective, observing his young subordinate with shrewd, kindly eyes, noted in one
swift glance his changed demeanor: his pallor, and the new lines graven about the firm mouth,
which added strength and maturity to his face. If he guessed the reason for the metamorphosis,
Blaine gave no sign, but listened without comment until Morrow had completed his report.

"You obeyed my instructions?" he asked at length. "When you discovered the forgery outfit in
the cellar of Brunell's shop, you left everything just as it had been--left no possible trace
of your presence?"

"Yes, sir. There's not a sign left to show any one had disturbed the place. I am sure of that."

"Not a foot-print in the earth of the cellar steps?"

"No, sir."

"And the outfit--was there any evidence it had been used lately?"

"No--everything was dust-covered, and even rusty, as if it had not even been touched in months,
perhaps years. The whole thing might be merely a relic of Jimmy Brunell's past performances,
in the life he gave up long ago."

Morrow spoke almost eagerly, as if momentarily off his guard, but Blaine shook his head.

"Rather too dangerous a relic to keep in one's possession, Guy, simply as a souvenir--a reminder
of things the man is trying to forget, to live down. You can depend on it: the outfit was there
for some more practical purpose. You say Paddington has not appeared in the neighborhood, but
another man has--a man Brunell's daughter seems to dislike and fear?"

"Yes, sir. There's one significant fact about him, too--his name. He's Charley Pennold. It
didn't occur to me for some time after Miss Brunell let that slip, that the name is the same
as that of the precious pair of old crooks over in Brooklyn, the ones Suraci and I traced Brunell
by."

"Charley Pennold!" Blaine repeated thoughtfully. "I hadn't thought of him. He's old Walter
Pennold's nephew. The boy was running straight the last I heard of him, but you never can tell.
Guy, I'm going to take you off the Brunell trail for a while, and put you on this man Paddington.
I'll have Suraci look up Charley Pennold and get a line on him. In the meantime, leave your
key to the map-making shop with me. I may want to have a look at that forgery outfit myself."

"You're going to take me off the Brunell trail!" Morrow's astonishment and obvious distaste
for the change of program confronting him was all-revealing. "But I'll have to go back and
make some sort of explanation for leaving so abruptly, won't I? Will it pay to arouse their
suspicions--that is, sir, unless you've got some special reason for doing so?"

Blaine's slow smile was very kindly and sympathetic as he eyed the anxious young man before him.

"No. You will go back, of course, and explain that you have obtained a clerkship which necessitates
your moving downtown. Make your peace with Miss Brunell if you like, but remember, Guy, don't
mix sentiment and business. It won't do. I may have to put you back on the job there in a few
days, and I know I can depend on you not to lose your head. She's a young girl and a pretty
one; but don't forget she's the daughter of Jimmy Brunell, the man we're trying to get! Pennington
Lawton had a daughter, too; remember that--and she's been defrauded of everything in the world
but her lover and her faith in her father's memory." His voice had gradually grown deeper and
more stern, and he added in brisk, businesslike tones, far removed from the personal element.
"Now get back to the Bronx. Come to me to-morrow morning, and I'll have the data in the Paddington
matter ready for you."

The young detective had scarcely taken his departure, when Ramon Hamilton appeared. He was
in some excitement, and glanced nervously behind him as he entered, as if almost in fear of
possible pursuit.

"Mr. Blaine," he began, "I'm confident that we're suspected. Here's a note that came to me
from President Mallowe this morning. He asks if I inadvertently carried away with me that letter
of Pennington Lawton's written from Long Bay two years ago, in which I had shown such an interest
during our interview the other day. He has been unable to find it since my departure. That's
a rather broad hint, it seems to me."

"I should not consider it as such," the detective responded. "Guilty conscience, Mr. Hamilton!"

"That's not all!" the young lawyer went on. "He says that a curious burglary was committed
at his offices the night after my interview with him--his watchman was chloroformed, and the
safe in his private office opened and rifled, yet nothing was taken, with the possible exception
of that letter. Mallowe asks me, openly, if I knew of an ulterior motive which any one might
have possessed in acquiring it, and even remarks that he is thinking of putting you, Mr. Blaine,
on the mysterious attempt at robbery. That would be a joke, wouldn't it, if it wasn't really,
in my estimation at least, a covert threat. Why should he, Mallowe, take me into his confidence
about an affair which took place in his private office? He did not make the excuse of pretending
to retain me as his attorney. I think he was merely warning me that he was suspicious of me."

"Probably a mere coincidence," Blaine observed easily.

"I wonder if you'll think so when I tell you that twice since yesterday my life has been attempted."
Ramon spoke quietly enough, but there was a slight trembling in his tones.

"What!" Blaine started forward in his chair, then sank back with an incredulous smile, which
none but he could have known was forced. "Surely you imagine it, Mr. Hamilton. Since your automobile
accident, when you were run down and so nearly killed on the evening you sent for me to undertake
Miss Lawton's case, you may well be nervous."

As he spoke he glanced at the other's broken arm, which was still swathed in bandages.

"But these were no accidents, Mr. Blaine, and I have always doubted that the first one was,
as you know. Yesterday afternoon, a new client's case called me down to the sixth ward, at
four o'clock. In order to reach my client's address it was necessary to pass through the street
in which that shooting affray occurred which filled the papers last evening. Two men darted
out of a house, shot presumably at each other, then turned and ran in opposite directions without
waiting to see if either of the shots took effect. You know that isn't usual with the members
of rival gangs down there. Remember, too, Mr. Blaine, that it was prearranged for me to walk
alone through that street at just that psychological moment. It seemed to me that neither man
shot at the other, but both fired point-blank at me. I dismissed the idea from my mind as absurd,
the next minute, and would have thought no more about it, beyond congratulating myself on my
fortunate escape, had not the second attempt been made."

"The sixth ward--" Blaine remarked, meditatively. "That's Timothy Carlis' stamping ground,
of course. But go on, Mr. Hamilton. What was the second incident?"

"Late last night, I had a telephone message from my club that my best friend, Gordon Brooke,
had been taken suddenly ill with a serious attack of heart-trouble, and wanted me. Brooke has
heart-disease and he might go off with it at any time, so I posted over immediately. The club
is only a few blocks away from my home, so I didn't wait to call my machine or a taxi, but
started over. Just a little way from the club, three men sprang upon me and attempted to hold
me up. I fought them off, and when they came at me again, three to one, the idea flashed upon
me that this was a fresh attempt to assassinate me.

"I shouted for help, and then ran. When I reached the club I found Brooke there, sitting in
a poker game and quite as well as usual. No telephone message had been sent to me from him.
I tried this morning, before I came to you, to have the number traced, but without success.
Do you blame me now, Mr. Blaine, for believing, after these three manifestations, that my life
is in actual danger?"

"I do not." The detective touched an electric button on his desk. "I think it will be advisable
for you to have a guard, for the next few days, at least."

"A guard!" Ramon repeated, indignantly. "I'm not a coward. Any man would be disturbed, to put
it mildly, over the conviction that his life was threatened every hour, but it was of her I
was thinking--of Anita! I could not bear to think of leaving her alone to face the world, penniless
and hedged in on all sides by enemies. But I want no guard! I can take care of myself as well
as the next man. Look at the perils and dangers you have faced in your unceasing warfare against
malefactors of every grade. It is common knowledge that you have invariably refused to be guarded."

"The years during which I have been constantly face to face with sudden death have made me
disregard the possibility of it. But I shall not insist in your case, Mr. Hamilton, if you
do not wish it; and allow me to tell you that I admire your spirit. However, I should like
to have you leave town for a few days, if your clients can spare you."

"Leave town? Run away?" Ramon started indignantly from his chair, but Blaine waved him back
with a fatherly hand.

"Not at all. On a commission for me, in Miss Lawton's interests. Mr. Hamilton, you have known
the Lawtons for several years, have you not?"

"Ever since I can remember," the young lawyer said with renewed eagerness.

"Two years ago, in August, Pennington Lawton and his daughter were at 'The Breakers,' at Long
Bay, were they not?"

"Yes. Anita and I were engaged then, and I ran out myself for the week-end."

"I want you to run out there for me now. The hotel will be closed at this time of year, of
course, but a letter which I will give you to the proprietor, who lives close at hand, will
enable you to look over the register for an hour or two in private. Turn to the arrivals for
August of that year, and trace the names and home addresses on each page; then bring it back
to me."

"Is it something in connection with that forged letter to Mallowe?" asked Ramon quickly.

"Perhaps," the detective admitted. He shrugged, then added leniently, "I think, before proceeding
any further with that branch of the investigation, it would be well to know who obtained the
notepaper with the hotel letterhead, and if the paper itself was genuine. Bring me back some
of the hotel stationery, also, that I may compare it with that used for the letter."

A discreet knock upon the door heralded the coming of an operative, in response to Blaine's
touch upon the bell.

"There has been a slight disturbance in the outer office, sir," he announced. "A man, who appears
to be demented, insists upon seeing you. He isn't one of the ordinary cranks, or we would have
dealt with him ourselves. He says that if you will read this, you will be glad to assent to
an interview with him."

He presented a card, which Blaine read with every manifestation of surprised interest.

"Tell him I will see him in five minutes," he said. When the operative had withdrawn, the detective
turned to Ramon.

"Who do you think is waiting outside? The man who threatened Pennington Lawton's life ten years
ago, the man whose name was mentioned by the unknown visitor to the library on the night Lawton
met his death: Herbert Armstrong!"

"Good heavens!" Ramon exclaimed. "What brings him here now? I thought he had disappeared utterly.
Do you think it could have been he in the library that night, come to take revenge for that
fancied wrong, at last?"

"That is what I'm going to find out," the detective responded, with a touch of grimness in
his tones.

"But you don't mean--it isn't possible that Mr. Lawton was murdered! That he didn't die of
heart-disease, after all!"

"I traced Armstrong to the town where he was living in obscurity, and followed his movements."
Blaine's reply seemed to be purposely irrelevant. "I could not, however, find where he had
been on the night of Mr. Lawton's death. Now that he has come to me voluntarily, we shall discover
if the voice Miss Lawton overheard in that moment when she listened on the stairs, was his
or not.... Come back this afternoon, Mr. Hamilton, and I will give you full information and
instructions about that Long Bay errand. In the meantime, guard yourself well from a possible
attack, although I do not think another attempt upon your life will be made so soon. Take this,
and if you have need of it, do not hesitate to use it. We can afford no half-measures now.
Shoot, and shoot to kill!"

He opened a lower drawer in his massive desk and, drawing from it a business-like looking revolver
of large caliber, presented it to the lawyer. With a warm hand-clasp he dismissed him, and,
going to the telephone, called up Anita Lawton's home.

"I want you to attend carefully, Miss Lawton. I am speaking from my office. A man will be here
with me in a few minutes, and I shall seat him close to the transmitter of my 'phone, leaving
the receiver off the hook. Please listen carefully to his voice. I only wish you to hear a
phrase or two, when I will hang up the receiver, and call you up later. Try to concentrate
with all your powers, and tell me afterward if you have ever heard that voice until now; if
it is the voice of the man you did not see, who was in the library with your father just before
he died."

He heard her give a quick gasp, and then her voice came to him, low and sweet and steady.

"I will listen carefully, Mr. Blaine, and do my best to tell you the truth."

The detective pulled a large leather chair close to the telephone, and Herbert Armstrong was
ushered in.

The man was pitiful in appearance, but scarcely demented, as the operative had described him.
He was tall and shabbily clothed, gaunt almost to the point of emaciation, but with no sign
of dissipation. His eyes, though sunken, were clear, and they gazed levelly with those of the
detective.

"Come in, Mr. Armstrong." Blaine waved genially toward the arm-chair. "What can I do for you?"

The man did not offer to shake hands, but sank wearily into the chair assigned him.

"Do? You can stop hounding me, Henry Blaine! You and Pennington Lawton brought my tragedy upon
me as surely as I brought it upon myself, and now you will not leave me alone with my grief
and ruin, to drag my miserable life out to the end, but you or your men must dog my every foot-step,
spy upon me, hunt me down like a pack of wolves! And why? Why?"

The man's voice had run its gamut, in the emotion which consumed him, and from a menacing growl
of protest, it had risen to a shrill wail of weakness and despair.

Henry Blaine was satisfied.

"Excuse me, Mr. Armstrong," he said gently. "The receiver is off my telephone, here at your
elbow. It would be unfortunate if we were overheard. If you will allow me--"

But he got no further. Quick as he was, the other man was quicker. He sprang up furiously,
and dashed the telephone off the desk.

"Is this another of your d--d tricks?" he shouted. "If it is, whoever was listening may hear
the rest. You and Pennington Lawton between you, drove my wife to suicide, but you'll not drive
me there! I'm ruined, and broken, and hopeless, but I'll live on, live till I'm even, do you
hear? Live till I'm square with the game!"

His violence died out as swiftly as it had arisen, and he sank down in the chair, his face
buried in his bony hands, his thin shoulders shaken with sobs.

Blaine quietly replaced the telephone and receiver, and seated himself.

"Come, man, pull yourself together!" he said, not unkindly. "I'm not hounding you; Lawton never
harmed you, and now he is dead. He was my client and I was bound to protect his interests,
but as man to man, the fault was yours and you know it. I tried to keep you from making a fool
of yourself and wrecking three lives, but I only succeeded in saving one."

"But your men are hounding me, following me, shadowing me! I have come to find out why!"

"And I would like to find out where you were on a certain night last month--the ninth, to be
exact," responded Blaine quietly.

"What affair is it of yours?" the other man asked wearily, adding: "How should I know, now?
One night is like another, to me."

"If you hate Pennington Lawton's memory as you seem to, the ninth of November should stand
out in your thoughts in letters of fire," the detective went on, in even, quiet tone. "That
was the night on which Lawton died."

"Lawton?" Herbert Armstrong raised his haggard face. The meaning of Blaine's remark utterly
failed to pierce his consciousness. "The date doesn't mean anything to me, but I remember the
night, if that's what you want to know about, although I'm hanged if I can see what it's got
to do with me! I'll never forget that night, because of the news which reached me in the morning,
that my worst enemy on earth had passed away."

"Were you in Illington the evening before?" asked Blaine.

"I was not. I was in New Harbor, where I live, playing pinochle all night long with two other
down-and-outs like myself, in a cheap hall bed-room--I, Herbert Armstrong, who used to play
for thousands a game, in the best clubs in Illington! And I never knew that the man who had
brought me to that pass was gasping his life away! Think of it! We played until dawn, when
the extras, cried in the street below, gave us the news!"

"If you will give me the address of this boarding-house you mention, and the names of your
two friends, I can promise that you will be under no further espionage, Mr. Armstrong."

"I don't care whether you know it or not, if that's all you want!" The gaunt man shrugged wearily.
"I'm tired of being hounded, and I'm too weak and too tired to oppose you, even if it did matter."

He gave the required names and addresses, and slouched away, his animosity gone, and only a
dull, miserable lethargy sagging upon his worn body.

When the outer door of the offices had closed upon him, Henry Blaine again called up Anita
Lawton. This time her voice came to him sharpened by acute distress.

"I did not recognize the tones of the person's voice, Mr. Blaine, only I am quite, quite sure
that he was not the man in the library with my father the night of his death. But oh, what
did he mean by the terrible things he said? It could not be that my father brought ruin and
tragedy upon any one, much less drove them to suicide. Won't you tell me, Mr. Blaine? Ramon
won't, although I am convinced he knows all about it. I must know."

"You shall, Miss Lawton. I think the time has come when you should no longer be left in the
dark. I will tell Mr. Hamilton when he comes to me this afternoon for the interview we have
arranged that you must know the whole story."

But Ramon Hamilton failed to appear for the promised interview. Henry Blaine called up his
office and his home, but was unable to locate him. Then Miss Lawton began making anxious inquiries,
and finally the mother of the young lawyer appealed to the detective, but in vain. Late that
night the truth was established beyond peradventure of a doubt. Ramon Hamilton had disappeared
as if the earth had opened and engulfed him.

CHAPTER X

MARGARET HEFFERMAN'S FAILURE

The disappearance of Ramon Hamilton, coming so soon after the sudden death of his prospective
father-in-law, caused a profound sensation. In the small hours of the night, before the press
had been apprised of the event and when every probable or possible place where the young lawyer
might be had been communicated with in vain, Henry Blaine set the perfect machinery of his
forces at work to trace him.

It was dawn before he could spare a precious moment to go to Anita Lawton. On his arrival he
found her pacing the floor, wringing her slim hands in anguish.

"He is dead." She spoke with the dull hopelessness of utter conviction. "I shall never see
him again. I feel it! I know it!"

"My dear child!" Blaine put his hands upon her shoulders in fatherly compassion. "You must
put all such morbid fancies from your mind. He is not dead and we shall find him. It may be
all a mistake--perhaps some important matter concerning a client made it necessary for him
to leave the city over night."

She shook her head despairingly.

"No, Mr. Blaine. You know as well as I that Ramon is just starting in his profession. He has
no clients of any prominence, and my father's influence was really all that his rising reputation
was being built upon. Besides, nothing but a serious accident or--or death would keep him from me!"

"If he had met with any accident his identity would have been discovered and we would be notified,
unless, as in the case when he was run down by that motor-car, he did not wish them to let
you know for fear of worrying you."

Blaine watched the young girl narrowly as he spoke. Was she aware of the two additional attempts
only the day before on the life of the man she loved?

"He merely followed a dear, unselfish impulse because he knew that in a few hours at most he
would be with me; but now it is morning! The dawn of a new day, and no word from him! Those
terrible people who tried to kill him that other time to keep him from coming to me in my trouble
have made away with him. I am sure of it now."

The detective breathed more freely. Evidently Ramon Hamilton had had the good sense to keep
from her his recent danger.

"You can be sure of nothing, Miss Lawton, save the fact that Mr. Hamilton is not dead," Henry
Blaine said earnestly. "You do not realize, perhaps, the one salient fact that criminal experts
who deal with cases of disappearance have long since recognized--the most difficult of all
things to conceal or do away with in a large city is a dead body."

Anita shivered and clasped her hands convulsively, but she did not speak, and after a scarcely
perceptible pause, the detective went on:

"You must not let your mind dwell on the possibilities; it will only entail useless, needless
suffering on your part. My experiences have been many and varied in just such cases as this,
and in not one in fifty does serious harm come to the subject of the investigation. In fact,
in this instance, I think it quite probable that Mr. Hamilton has left the city of his own
accord, and in your interests."

"In my interests?" Anita repeated, roused from her lethargy of sorrow by his words, as he had
intended that she should be. "Left the city? But why?"

"When he called upon me yesterday morning I told him of a commission which I wished him to
execute for me in connection with your investigation. I gave him some preliminary instructions
and he was to return to me in the afternoon for a letter of introduction and to learn some
minor details of the matter involved. He did not appear at the hour of our appointment and
I concluded that he had taken the affair into his own hands and had gone immediately upon leaving
my office to fulfill his mission."

"Oh, perhaps he did!" The young girl started from her chair, her dull, tearless eyes suddenly
bright with hope. "That would be like Ramon; he is so impulsive, so anxious to help me in every
way! Where did you send him, Mr. Blaine? Can't we telephone, or wire and find out if he really
has gone to this place? Please, please do! I cannot endure this agony of uncertainty, of suspense,
much longer!"

"Unfortunately, we cannot do that!" Blaine responded, gravely. "To attempt to communicate with
him where I have sent him would be to show our hand irretrievably to the men we are fighting
and undo much of the work which has been accomplished. He may communicate with you or possibly
with me, if he finds that he can contrive to accomplish it safely."

"Safely? Then if he has gone to this place, wherever it is, he is in danger?" Anita faltered,
tremblingly.

"By no means. The only danger is that his identity and purpose may be disclosed and our plans
jeopardized," the detective reassured her smoothly. "I know it is hard to wait for news, but
one must school oneself to patience under circumstances such as this. It may be several days
before you hear from Mr. Hamilton and you must try not to distress yourself with idle fears
in the meantime."

"But it is not certain--we have no assurance that he really did go upon that mission." The
light of hope died in her eyes as she spoke, and a little sob rose in her throat. "Oh, Mr.
Blaine, promise me that you will leave no stone unturned to find him!"

"My dear child, you must trust in me and have faith in my long years of experience. I have
already, as a precautionary measure, started a thorough investigation into Mr. Hamilton's movements
yesterday, and in the event that he has not gone on the errand I spoke of, it can only be a
question of hours before he will be located. You did not see him yesterday?"

"No. He promised to lunch with me, but he never came nor did he telephone or send me any word.
Surely, if he had meant to leave town he would have let me know!"

"Not necessarily, Miss Lawton." Blaine's voice deepened persuasively. "He was very much excited
when he left my office, interested heart and soul in the mission I had entrusted to him. Remember,
too, that it was all for you, for your sake alone."

"And I may not know where he has gone?" Anita asked, wistfully.

"I think, perhaps, that is why Mr. Hamilton did not communicate with you before leaving town,"
the detective replied, significantly. "He agreed with me that it would be best for you not
to know, in your own interests, where he was going. You must try to believe that I am doing
all in my power to help you, and that my judgment is in such matters better than yours."

"I do, Mr. Blaine. Indeed I do trust you absolutely; you must believe that." She reached out
an impulsive hand toward him, and his own closed over it paternally for a moment. Then he gently
released it.

Anita sighed and sank back resignedly in her chair. There was a moment's pause before she added:

"It is hard to be quiescent when one is so hedged in on all sides by falsehood and deceit and
the very air breathes conspiracy and intrigue. I have no tangible reason to fear for my own
life, of course, but sometimes I cannot help wondering why it has not been imperiled. Surely
it would be easier for my father's enemies to do away with me altogether than to have conceived
and carried out such an elaborate scheme to rob me and defame my father's memory. But I will
try not to entertain such thoughts. I am nervous and overwrought, but I will regain my self-control.
In the meantime, I shall do my best to be patient and wait for Ramon's return."

Henry Blaine felt a glow of pardonable elation, but his usually expressive face did not betray
by a single flicker of an eyelash that he had gained his point. He knew that Ramon Hamilton
had never started on that mission to Long Bay, but if the young girl's health and reason were
to be spared, her anxiety must be allayed. Courageous and self-controlled as she had been through
all the grief and added trouble which besieged her on every hand, the keen insight of the detective
warned him that she was nearing the breaking-point. If she fully realized the blow which threatened
her in the sudden disappearance of her lover, together with the sinister events which had immediately
preceded it, she would be crushed to the earth.

"You must try to rest." Blaine rose and motioned toward the window through which the cold rays
of the wintry sun were stealing and putting the orange glow of the electric lights to shame.
"See. It is morning and you have had no sleep."

"But you must not go just yet, Mr. Blaine! I cannot rest until I know who that man was whose
voice I heard over your telephone this morning. What did he mean? He said that his wife committed
suicide; that he himself had been ruined! And all through my father and you! It cannot be true,
of course; but I must know to what he referred!"

"I will tell you. It is best that you should know the truth. Your father was absolutely innocent
in the matter, but his enemies and yours might find it expedient to spread fake reports which
would only add to your sorrow. You know, you must remember since your earliest childhood, how
every one came to your father with their perplexities and troubles and how benevolently they
were received, how wisely advised, how generously aided. Not only bankers and financiers in
the throes of a panic, but men and women in all walks of life came to him for counsel and relief."

"I know. I know!" Anita whispered with bowed head, the quick tears of tender memory starting
in her eyes.

"Such a one who came to him for advice in her distress was the wife of Herbert Armstrong. She
was a good woman, but through sheer ignorance of evil she had committed a slight indiscretion,
nothing more than the best of women might be led into at any time. We need not go into details.
It is enough to tell you that certain unscrupulous persons had her in their power and were
blackmailing her. She fell their victim through the terror of being misunderstood, and when
she could no longer accede to their demands she came to your father, her husband's friend,
for advice. Herbert Armstrong was insanely jealous of his wife, and in your father's efforts
to help her he unfortunately incurred the unjust suspicions of the man. Armstrong brought suit
for divorce, intending to name Mr. Lawton as corespondent."

"Oh, how could he!" Anita cried, indignantly. "The man must have been mad! My father was the
soul of honor. Every one--the whole world--knows that! Besides, his heart was buried, all that
he did not give to me, deep, deep in the sea where Mother and my little brother and sister
are lying! He never even looked at another woman, save perhaps in kindness, to help and comfort
those who were in trouble. But when did you come into the case, Mr. Blaine? That man whose
voice I heard to-day must have been Herbert Armstrong himself, of course. Why did he say that
you, as well as my father, were responsible for his tragedy?"

"Because when Mr. Lawton became aware of Armstrong's ungovernable jealousy and the terrible
length to which he meant to go in his effort to revenge himself, he--your father--came to me
to establish Mrs. Armstrong's innocence, and his, in the eyes of the world. Armstrong's case,
although totally wrong from every standpoint, was a very strong one, but fortunately I was
able to verify the truth and was fully prepared to prove it. Just on the eve of the date set
for the trial, however, a tragedy occurred which brought the affair to an abrupt and pathetic end."

"A tragedy? Mrs. Armstrong's suicide, you mean?" asked Anita, in hushed tones. "How awful!"

"She was deeply in love with her husband. His unjust accusations and the public shame he was
so undeservedly bringing upon her broke her heart. I assured her that she would be vindicated,
that Armstrong would be on his knees to her at the trial's end. Your father tried to infuse
her with courage, to gird her for the coming struggle to defend her own good name, but it was
all of no use. She was too broken in spirit. Life held nothing more for her. On the night before
the case was to have been called, she shot herself."

"Poor thing!" Anita murmured, with a sob running through her soft voice. "Poor, persecuted
woman. Why did she not wait! Knowing her own innocence and loving her husband as she did, she
could have forgiven him for his cruel suspicion when it was all over! But surely Herbert Armstrong
knows the truth now. How can he blame you and my father for the wreck which he made of his
own life?"

"Because his mind has become unhinged. He was always excitable and erratic, and his weeks of
jealous wrath, culminating in the shock of the sudden tragedy, and the realization that he
had brought it all on himself, were too much for him. He was a broker and one of the most prominent
financiers in the city, but with the divorce fiasco and the death of Mrs. Armstrong, he began
to brood. He shunned the friends who were left to him, neglected his business and ultimately
failed. Sinking lower and lower in the scale of things, he finally disappeared from Illington.
You can understand now why I thought it best when you told me of the conversation you had overheard
in the library here a few hours before your father's death, and of the mention of Herbert Armstrong's
name, to trace him and find out if it was he who had come in the heart of the night and attempted
to blackmail Mr. Lawton."

"I understand. That was why you wanted me to hear his voice yesterday and see if I recognized
it. But it was not at all like that of the man in the library on the night of my father's death.
And do you know, Mr. Blaine"--she leaned forward and spoke in still lower tones--"when I recall
that voice, it seems to me, sometimes, that I have heard it before. There was a certain timbre
in it which was oddly familiar. It is as if some one I knew had spoken, but in tones disguised
by rage and passion. I shall recognize that voice when I hear it again, if it holds that same
note; and when I do--"

Blaine darted a swift glance at her from under narrowed brows. "But why attribute so much importance
to it?" he asked. "To be sure, it may have some bearing upon our investigation, although at
present I can see no connecting link. You feel, perhaps, that the violent emotions superinduced
by that secret interview, added to your father's heart-trouble, indirectly caused his death?"

Anita again sank back in her chair.

"I don't know, Mr. Blaine. I cannot explain it, even to myself, but I feel instinctively that
that interview was of greater significance than any one has considered, as yet."

"That we must leave to the future." The detective took her hand, and this time Anita rose and
walked slowly with him toward the door. "There are matters of greater moment to be investigated
now. Remember my advice. Try to be patient. Yours is the hardest task of all, to sit idly by
and wait for events to shape themselves, or for me to shape them, but it must be. If you can
calm your nerves and obtain a few hours' sleep you will feel your own brave self again when
I report to you, as I shall do, later to-day."

Despite his night of ceaseless work, Henry Blaine, clear-eyed and alert of brain, was seated
at his desk at the stroke of nine when Suraci was ushered in--the young detective who had trailed
Walter Pennold from Brooklyn to the quiet backwater where Jimmy Brunell had sought in vain
for disassociation from his past shadowy environment.

"It has become necessary, through an incident which occurred yesterday, for me to change my
plans," Blaine announced. "I had intended to put you on the trail of a young crook, a relative
of Pennold, but I find I must send you instead to Long Bay to look up a hotel register for
me and obtain some writing paper with the engraved letter-head from that hotel. You can get
a train in an hour, if you look sharp. Try to get back to-night or to-morrow morning at the
latest. Find out anything you can regarding the visit there two years ago last August of Pennington
Lawton and his daughter and of other guests who arrived during their stay. Here are your instructions."

Twenty minutes' low-voiced conversation ensued, and Suraci took his departure. He was followed
almost immediately by Guy Morrow.

"What is the dope, sir?" the latter asked eagerly, as he entered. "There's an extra out about
the Hamilton disappearance. Do you think Paddington's had a hand in that?"

"I want you to tail him," Blaine replied, non-committally. "Find out anything you can of his
movements for the past few weeks, but don't lose sight of him for a minute until to-morrow
morning. He's supposed to be working up the evidence now for the Snedecker divorce, so it won't
be difficult for you to locate him. You know what he looks like."

"Yes, sir. I know the man himself--if you call such a little rat a man. We had a run-in once,
and it isn't likely I'd forget him."

"Then be careful to keep out of his sight. He may be a rat, but he's as keen-eyed as a ferret.
I'd rather put some one on him whom he didn't know, but we'll have to chance it. I wouldn't
trust this to anyone but you, Guy."

The young operative flushed with pride at this tribute from his chief, and after a few more
instructions he went upon his way with alacrity.

Once more alone, Henry Blaine sat for a long time lost in thought. An idea had come to him,
engendered by a few vague words uttered by Anita Lawton in the early hours of that morning:
an idea so startling, so tremendous in its import, that even he scarcely dared give it credence.
To put it to the test, to prove or disprove it, would be irretrievably to show his hand in
the game, and that would be suicidal to his investigation should his swift suspicion chance
to be groundless.

The sharp ring of the telephone put an end to his cogitations. He put the receiver to his ear
with a preoccupied frown, but at the first words which came to him over the wire his expression
changed to one of keenest concentration.

"Am I speaking to the gentleman who talked with me at the working girls' club?" a clear, fresh
young voice asked. "This is Margaret Hefferman, Mr. Rockamore's stenographer--that is, I was
until ten minutes ago, but I have been discharged."

"Discharged!" Blaine's voice was eager and crisp as he reiterated her last word. "On what pretext?"

"It was not exactly a pretext," the girl replied. "The office boy accused me of taking shorthand
notes of a private conversation between my employer and a visitor, and I could not convince
Mr. Rockamore of my innocence. I--I must have been clumsy, I'm afraid."

"You have the notes with you?"

"Yes."

"The visitor's name was Paddington?"

"Yes, sir."

Blaine considered for a moment; then, his decision made, he spoke rapidly in a clear undertone.

"You know the department store of Mead & Rathbun? Meet me there in the ladies' writing-room
in half an hour. Where are you now?"

"In a booth in the drug-store just around the corner from the building where Mr. Rockamore's
offices are located."

"Very good. Take as round-about a route as you can to reach Mead & Rathbun's, and see if you
are followed. If you are and you find it impossible to shake off your shadow, do not try to
meet me, but go directly to the club and I will communicate with you there later."

"Oh, I don't think I've been followed, but I'll be very careful. If everything is all right,
I will meet you at the place you named in half an hour. Good-by."

Henry Blaine paced the floor for a time in undisguised perturbation. His move in placing inexperienced
girls from Anita Lawton's club in responsible positions, instead of using his own trained operatives,
had been based not upon impulse but on mature reflection. The girls were unknown, whereas his
operatives would assuredly have been recognized, sooner or later, especially in the offices
of Carlis and Rockamore. Moreover, the ruse adopted to obtain positions for Miss Lawton's protégées
had appeared on the surface to be a flawlessly legitimate one. He had counted upon their loyalty
and zeal to outweigh their possible incompetence and lack of discretion, but the stolid German
girl had apparently been so clumsy at her task as to bring failure upon his plan.

"So much for amateurs!" he murmured to himself, disgustedly. "The other three will be discharged
as soon as excuses for their dismissal can be manufactured now. My only hope from any of them
is that French governess. If she will only land Paddington I don't care what suspicions the
other three arouse."

Margaret Hefferman's placid face was a little pale when she greeted him in the ladies' room
of the department store a short time later.

"I'm so sorry, Mr. Blaine!" she exclaimed, but in carefully lowered tones. "I could have cut
my right hand off before I would hurt Miss Lawton after all she has done for me, and already
the first thing she asks, I must fail to do!"

"You are sure you were not followed?" asked the detective, disregarding her lamentations with
purposeful brusqueness, for the tears stood in her soft, bovine eyes, and he feared an emotional
outburst which would draw down upon them the attention of the whole room.

"Oh, no! I made sure of that. I rode uptown and half-way down again to be certain, and then
changed to the east-side line."

"Very well." He drew her to a secluded window-seat where, themselves almost unseen, they could
obtain an unobstructed view of the entrance door and of their immediate neighbors.

"Now tell me all about it, Miss Hefferman."

"It was that office boy, Billy," she began. "Such sharp eyes and soft walk, like a cat! Always
he is yawning and sleepy--who would think he was a spy?"

Her tone was filled with such contempt that involuntarily the detective's mobile lips twitched.
The girl had evidently quite lost sight of the fact that she herself had occupied the very
position in the pseudo employ of Bertrand Rockamore which she derided in his office boy.

He did not attempt to guide her in her narrative of the morning's events, observing that she
was too much agitated to give him a coherent account. Instead, he waited patiently for her
to vent her indignation and tell him in her own way the substance of what had occurred.

"I had no thought of being watched, else I should have been more careful," she went on, resentfully.
"This morning, only, he was late--that Billy--and I did not report him. I was busy, too, for
there was more correspondence than usual to attend to, and Mr. Rockamore was irritable and
short-tempered. In the midst of his dictation Mr. Paddington came, and I was bundled out of
the room with the letters and my shorthand book. They talked together behind the closed door
for several minutes and I had no opportunity to hear a word, but presently Mr. Rockamore called
Billy and sent him out on an errand. Billy left the door of the inner office open just a little
and that was my chance. I seated myself at a desk close beside it and took down in shorthand
every word which reached my ears. I was so much occupied with the notes that I did not hear
Billy's footsteps until he stopped just behind me and whistled right in my ear. I jumped and
he laughed at me and went in to Mr. Rockamore. When he came out he shut the door tight behind
him and grinned as if he knew just what I had been up to. I did not dare open the door again,
and so I heard no more of the conversation, but I have enough, Mr. Blaine, to interest you,
I think."

She fumbled with her bag, but the detective laid a detaining hand on her arm.

"Never mind the notes now. Go on with your story. What happened after the interview was over?"

"That boy Billy went to Mr. Rockamore and told him. Already I have said he was irritable this
morning. He had seemed nervous and excited, as if he were angry or worried about something,
but when he sent for me to discharge me he was white-hot with rage. Never have I been so insulted
or abused, but that would be nothing if only I had not failed Miss Lawton. For her sake I tried
to lie, to deny, but it was of no use. My people were good Lutherans, but that does not help
one in a business career; it is much more a nuisance. He could read in my face that I was guilty,
and he demanded my shorthand note-book. I had to give it to him; there was nothing else to
be done."

"But I understood that you had the notes with you," Blaine commented, then paused as a faint
smile broke over her face and a demure dimple appeared in either cheek.

"I gave to him a note-book," she explained naïvely. "He was quite pleased, I think, to get
possession of it. No one can read my shorthand but me, anyway, so one book did him as much
good as another. He tried to make me tell him why I had done that--why I had taken down the
words of a private conference of his with a visitor. I could not think what I should say, so
I kept silent. For an hour he bullied and questioned me, but he could find out nothing and
so at last he let me go. If now I could get my hands on that Billy--"

"Never mind him," Blaine interrupted. "Rockamore didn't threaten you, did he?"

"He said he would fix it so that I obtained no more positions in Illington," the girl responded,
sullenly. "He will tell Miss Lawton that I am deceitful and treacherous and I should no longer
be welcome at the club! He said--but I will not take up your so valuable time by repeating
his stupid threats. Miss Lawton will understand. Shall not I read the notes to you? I have
had no opportunity to transcribe them and indeed they are safer as they are."

"Yes. Read them by all means, Miss Hefferman, if you have nothing more to tell me. I do not
think we are being overheard by anyone, but remember to keep your voice lowered."

"I will, Mr. Blaine."

The girl produced the note-book from her bag and swept a practised eye down its cryptic pages.

"Here it is. These are the first words I heard through the opened door. They were spoken by
Mr. Rockamore, and the other, Paddington, replied. This is what I heard:

"'I don't know what the devil you're driving at, I tell you.'

"'Oh, don't you, Rockamore? Want me to explain? I'll go into details if you like.'

"'I'm hanged if I'm interested. My share in our little business deal with you was concluded
some time ago. There's an end of that. You're a clever enough man to know the people you're
doing business with, Paddington. You can't put anything over on us.'

"'I'm not trying to. The deal you spoke of is over and done with and I guess nobody'll squeal.
We're all tarred with the same brush. But this is something quite different. We were pretty
good pals, Rockamore, so naturally, when I heard something about you which might take a lot
of explaining to smooth over, if it got about, I kept my mouth shut. I think a good turn deserves
another, at least among friends, and when I got in a hole I remembered what I did for you,
and I thought you'd be glad of a chance to give me a leg up.'

"'In other words you come here with a vague threat and try to blackmail me. That's it, isn't it?'

"'Blackmail is not a very pleasant term, Rockamore, and yet it is something which even you
might attempt. Get me? Of course the others would be glad to help me out, but I thought I'd
come to you first, since I--well, I know you better.'

"'How much do you want?'

"'Only ten thousand. I've got a tip on the market and if I can raise the coin before the stock
soars and buy on margin, I'll make a fine little coup. Want to come in on it, Rockamore?'

"'Go to the devil! Here's your check--you can get it certified at the bank. Now get out and
don't bother me again or you'll find out I'm not the weak-minded fool you take me for. Stick
to the small fry, Paddington. They're your game, but don't fish for salmon with a trout-fly.'

"'Thanks, old man. I always knew I could call on you in an emergency. I only hope my tip is
a straight one and I don't go short on the market. If I do--'

"'Don't come to me! I tell you, Paddington, you can't play me for a sucker. That's the last
cent you'll ever get out of me. It suits me now to pay for your silence because, as you very
well know, I don't care to inform my colleagues or have them informed that I acted independently
of them; but I've paid all that your knowledge is worth, and more.'

"'It might have been worth even more to others than to you or your colleagues. For instance--'

"Then Billy came up behind me and whistled," concluded Miss Hefferman, as she closed her note-book.
"Shall I transcribe this for you, Mr. Blaine? We have a typewriter at the club."

"No, I will take the note-book with me as it is and lock it in my safe at the office. Please
hold yourself in readiness to come down and transcribe it whenever it may be necessary for
me to send for you. You have done splendidly, Miss Hefferman. You must not feel badly over
having been discovered and dismissed. You have rendered Miss Lawton a valuable service for
which she will be the first to thank you. Telephone me if anyone attempts to approach you about
this affair, or if anything unusual should occur."

Scarcely an hour later, when Henry Blaine placed the receiver at his ear in response to the
insistent summons of the 'phone, her voice came to him again over the wire.

"Mr. Blaine, I am at the club, but I thought you should know that after all, I was--what is
that you say--shadowed this morning. Just a little way from Mead & Rathbun's my hand-bag was
cut from my arm. It was lucky, hein, that you took the note-book with you? As for me, I go
out no more for any positions. I go back soon as ever I can, by Germany."

CHAPTER XI

THE CONFIDENCE OF EMILY

All during that day and the night which followed it, the search for Ramon Hamilton continued,
but without result. With the announcement of his disappearance, in the press, the police had
started a spectacular investigation, but had been as unsuccessful as Henry Blaine's own operatives,
who had been working unostentatiously but tirelessly since the news of the young lawyer's evanescence
had come.

No one could be found who had seen him. When he left the offices of the great detective on
the previous morning he seemed to have vanished into thin air. It was to Blaine the most baffling
incident of all that had occurred since this most complex case had come into his hands.

He kept his word and called to see Anita in the late afternoon. He found that she had slept
for some hours and was calmer and more hopeful, which was fortunate, for he had scant comfort
to offer her beyond his vague but forceful reassurances that all would be well.

Early on the following morning Suraci returned from Long Bay and presented himself at the office
of his chief to report.

"Here are the tracings from the register of 'The Breakers' which you desired, sir," he began,
spreading some large thin sheets of paper upon the desk. "The Lawtons spent three weeks there
at the time you designated, and Mr. Hamilton went out each week-end, from Friday to Monday,
as you can see here, and here. They had no other visitors and kept much to themselves."

Blaine scanned the papers rapidly, pausing here and there to scrutinize more closely a signature
which appeared to interest him. At length he pushed them aside with a dissatisfied frown, as
if he had been looking for something which he had failed to find.

"Anything suspicious about the guests who arrived during the Lawtons' stay?" he asked. "Was
there any incident in connection with them worthy of note which the proprietor could recall?"

"No, sir, but I found some of the employees and talked to them. The hotel is closed now for
the winter, of course, but two or three of the waiters and bell-boys live in the neighborhood.
A summer resort is a hot-bed of gossip, as you know, sir, and since Mr. Lawton's sudden death
the servants have been comparing notes of his visit there two years ago. I found the waiter
who served them, and two bell-boys, and they each had a curious incident to tell me in connection
with the Lawtons. The stories would have held no significance if it weren't for the fact that
they all happened to concern one person--a man who arrived on the eighth of August. This man here."

Suraci ran his finger down the register page until he came to one name, where he stopped abruptly.

"Albert Addison, Baltimore, Maryland," read Blaine. Then, with a sudden exclamation he bent
closer over the paper. A prolonged scrutiny ensued while Suraci watched him curiously. Reaching
into a drawer, the Master Detective drew out a powerful magnifying glass and examined each
stroke of the pen with minute care. At length he swung about in his chair and pressed the electric
button on the corner of the desk. When his secretary appeared in response to the summons, Blaine
said:

"Ask the filing clerk to look in the drawer marked 'P. 1904,' and bring me the check drawn
on the First National Bank signed Paddington."

While the secretary was fulfilling his task the two waited in silence, but with the check before
him Henry Blaine gave it one keen, comparing glance, then turned to the operative.

"Well, Suraci, what did you learn from the hotel employees?"

"One of the bell-boys told me that this man, Addison, arrived with only a bag, announcing that
his luggage would be along later and that he anticipated remaining a week or more. This boy
noticed him particularly because he scanned the hotel register before writing his own name,
and insisted upon having one of two special suites; number seventy-two or seventy-six. Seventy-four
the suite between, was occupied by Mr. Lawton. They were both engaged, so he was forced to
be content with number seventy-three, just across the hall. The boy noticed that although the
new arrival did not approach Mr. Lawton or his daughter, he hung about in their immediate vicinity
all day and appeared to be watching them furtively.

"Late in the afternoon, Mr. Lawton went into the writing-room to attend to some correspondence.
The boy, passing through the room on an errand, saw him stop in the middle of a page, frown,
and tearing the paper across, throw it in the waste-basket. Glancing about inadvertently, the
bell-boy saw Addison seated near by, staring at Mr. Lawton from behind a newspaper which he
held in front of his face as if pretending to read. The boy's curiosity was aroused by the
eager, hungry, expectant look on the stranger's face, and he made up his mind to hang around,
too, and see what was doing.

"He attended to his errand and returned just in time to see Mr. Lawton seal the flap of his
last envelope, rise, and stroll from the room. Instantly Addison slipped into the seat just
vacated, wrote a page, crumpled it, and threw it in the same waste-basket the other man had
used. Then he started another page, hesitated and finally stopped and began rummaging in the
basket, as if searching for the paper he himself had just dropped there. The boy made up his
mind--he's a sharp one, sir, he'd be good for this business--that the stranger wasn't after
his own letter, at all, but the one Mr. Lawton had torn across, and in a spirit of mischief,
he walked up to the man and offered to help.

"'This is your letter, sir. I saw you crumple it up just now. That torn sheet of paper belongs
to one of the other guests.'

"According to his story, he forced Addison's own letter on him, and walked off with the waste-basket
to empty it, and if looks could kill, he'd have been a dead boy after one glance from the stranger.
That was all he had to tell, and he wouldn't have remembered such a trifling incident for a
matter of two years and more, if it hadn't been for something which happened late that night.
He didn't see it, being off duty, but another boy did, and the next day they compared notes.
They were undecided as to whether they should go to the manager of the hotel and make a report,
or not, but being only kids, they were afraid of getting into trouble themselves, so they waited.
Addison departed suddenly that morning, however, and as Mr. Lawton never gave any sign of being
aware of what had taken place, they kept silent. I located the second boy, and got his story
at first hand. His name is Johnnie Bradley and he's as stupid as the other one is sharp.

"Johnnie was on all night, and about one o'clock he was sent out to the casino on the pier
just in front of the hotel, with a message. When he was returning, he noticed a tiny, bright
light darting quickly about in Mr. Lawton's rooms, as if some one were carrying a candle through
the suite and moving rapidly. He remembered that Mr. Lawton and his daughter had motored off
somewhere just after dinner to be gone overnight, so he went upstairs to investigate, without
mentioning the matter to the clerk who was dozing behind the desk in the office. There was
a chambermaid on night duty at the end of the hall, but she was asleep, and as he reached the
head of the stairs, Johnnie observed that some one had, contrary to the rules, extinguished
the lights near Mr. Lawton's rooms. He went softly down the hall, until he came to the door
of number seventy-four. A man was stooping before it, fumbling with a key, but whether he was
locking or unlocking the door, it did not occur to Johnnie to question in his own mind until
later. As he approached, the man turned, saw him, and reeled against the door as if he had
been drinking.

"'Sa-ay, boy!' he drawled. 'Wha's matter with lock? Can't open m' door.'

"He put the key in his pocket as he spoke, but that, too, Johnnie did not think of until afterward.

"'That isn't your door, sir. Those are Mr. Pennington Lawton's rooms,' Johnnie told him. 'What
is the number on your key?'

"The man produced a key from his pocket and gave it to Johnnie in a stupid, dazed sort of way.
The key was numbered seventy-three.

"'That's your suite, just across the hall, sir,' Johnnie said. He unlocked the door for the
newcomer, who muttered thickly about the hall being d----d confusing to a stranger, and gave
him a dollar. Johnnie waited until the man had lurched into his rooms, then asked if he wanted
ice-water. Receiving no reply but a mumbled curse, he withdrew, but not before he had seen
the light switched on, and the man cross to the door and shut it. The stranger no longer lurched
about, but walked erectly and his face had lost the sagged, vapid, drunken look and was surprisingly
sober and keen and alert.

"The two boys decided the next day that Addison had come to 'The Breakers' with the idea of
robbing Mr. Lawton, but, as I said, nothing came of the incident, so they kept it to themselves
and in all probability it had quite passed from their minds until the news of Mr. Lawton's
death recalled it to them."

Suraci paused, and after a moment Blaine suggested tentatively:

"You spoke of a waiter, also, Suraci. Had he anything to add to what the bell-boys had told
you, of this man Addison's peculiar behavior?"

"Yes, sir. It isn't very important, but it sort of confirms what the first boy said, about
the stranger trying to watch the Lawtons, without being noticed himself, by them. The waiter,
Tim Donohue, says that on the day of his arrival, Addison was seated by the head waiter at
the next table to that occupied by Mr. Lawton, and directly facing him. Addison entered the
dining-room first, ordered a big luncheon, and was half-way through it when the Lawtons entered.
No sooner were they seated, than he got up precipitately and left the room. That night, at
dinner, he refused the table he had occupied at the first meal, and insisted upon being seated
at one somewhere back of Mr. Lawton.

"This Donohue is a genial, kind-hearted soul, and he was a favorite with the bell-hops because
he used to save sweets and tid-bits for them from his trays. Johnnie and the other boy told
him of their dilemma concerning number seventy-three, as they designated Addison, and he in
turn related the incident of the dining-room. The boys told me about him and where he could
be found. He's not a waiter any longer, but married to one of the hotel chamber-maids, and
lives in Long Bay, running a bus service to the depot for a string of the cheaper boarding
houses. He corroborated the bell-hops' story in every detail, and even gave me a hazy sort
of description of Addison. He was small and thin and dark; clean shaven, with a face like an
actor, narrow shoulders and a sort of caved-in chest. He walked with a slight limp, and was
a little over-dressed for the exclusive, conservative, high-society crowd that flock to 'The
Breakers.'"

"That's our man, Suraci--that's Paddington, to the life!" Blaine exclaimed. "I knew it as soon
as I compared his signature on this check with the one in the register, although he has tried
to disguise his hand, as you can see. I'm glad to have it verified, though, by witnesses on
whom we can lay our hands at any time, should it become necessary. He left the day after his
arrival, you say? The morning after this boy, Johnnie, caught him in front of Mr. Lawton's door?"

"Yes, sir. The bell-hops don't think he came back, either. They don't remember seeing him again."

"Very well. You've done splendidly, Suraci. I couldn't have conducted the investigation better
myself. Do you need any rest, now?"

"Oh, no, sir! I'm quite ready for another job!" The young operative's eyes sparkled eagerly
as he spoke, and his long, slim, nervous fingers clasped and unclasped the arms of his chair
spasmodically. "What is it? Something new come up?"

"Only that disappearance, two days ago, of the young lawyer to whom Miss Lawton is engaged,
Ramon Hamilton. I want you to go out on that at once, and see what you can do. I've got half
a dozen of the best men on it already, but they haven't accomplished anything. I can't give
you a single clue to go upon, except that when he walked out of this office at eleven o'clock
in the morning, he wore a black suit, black shoes, black tie, a black derby and a gray overcoat
with a mourning band on the sleeve--for Mr. Lawton, of course. Outside the door there, he vanished
as if a trap had opened and dropped him through into space. No one has seen him; no one knows
where he went. That's all the help I can offer you. He's not in jail or the morgue or any of
the hospitals, as yet. That isn't much, but it's something. Here's a personal description of
him which the police issued yesterday. It's as good as any I could give you, and here are two
photographs of him which I got from his mother yesterday afternoon. Take a good look at him,
Suraci, fix his face in your mind, and then if you should manage, or happen, to locate him,
you can't go wrong. I know your memory for faces."

The "shadow" departed eagerly upon his quest, and Blaine settled down to an hour's deep reflection.
He held the threads of the major conspiracy in his hands, but as yet he could not connect them,
at least in any tangible way to present at a court of so-called justice, where everyone, from
the judge to the policeman at the door could, and inevitably would, be bought over, in advance,
to the side of the criminals. It was a one-man fight, backed only with the slender means provided
by a young girl's insignificant financial ventures, against the press, the public, a corrupt
political machine of great power, the desperate ingenuity of three clever, unscrupulous minds
brought to bay, and the overwhelming influence of colossal wealth. Henry Blaine felt that the
supreme struggle of his whole career was confronting him.

The unheard-of intrepidity of conception, the very daring of the conspiracy, combined with
the prominence of the men involved, would brand any accusation, even from a man of Henry Blaine's
celebrated international reputation, as totally preposterous, unless substantiated. And what
actual proof had he of their criminal connection with the alleged bankruptcy of Pennington Lawton?

He had established, to his own satisfaction, at least, that the mortgage on the family home
on Belleair Avenue had been forged, and by Jimmy Brunell. The signature on the note held by
Moore, the banker, and the entire letter asking Mallowe to negotiate the loan had been also
fraudulent, and manufactured by the same hand. Paddington, the private detective with perhaps
the most unsavory record of any operating in the city, was in close and constant communication
with the three men Blaine held under suspicion, and probably also with Jimmy Brunell. Lastly,
Brunell himself was known to be still in possession of his paraphernalia for the pursuit of
his old nefarious calling. Paddington, on Margaret Hefferman's testimony, had assuredly succeeded
in mulcting the promoter, Rockamore, of a large sum in a clear case of blackmail, but on the
face of it there was no proof that it was connected with the matter of Pennington Lawton's
insolvency.

The mysterious nocturnal visitor, on the night the magnate met his death, was still to be accounted
for, as was the disappearance of Ramon Hamilton; and in spite of his utmost efforts, Henry
Blaine was forced to admit to himself that he was scarcely nearer a solution, or rather, a
confirmation of his steadfast convictions, than when he started upon his investigation.

Unquestionably, the man Paddington held the key to the situation. But how could Paddington
be approached? How could he be made to speak? Bribery had sealed his lips, and only greed would
open them. He was shrewd enough to realize that the man who had purchased his services would
pay him far more to remain silent than any client of Blaine's could, to betray them. Moreover,
he was in the same boat, and must of necessity sink or swim with his confederates.

Fear might induce him to squeal, where cupidity would fail, but the one sure means of loosening
his tongue was through passion.

"If only that French girl, Fifine Déchaussée, would lead him on, if she had less of the saint
and more of the coquette in her make-up, we might land him," the detective murmured to himself.
"It's dirty work, but we've got to use the weapons in our hands. I must have another talk with
her, before she considers herself affronted by his attentions, and throws him down hard--that
is, if he's making any attempt to follow up his flirtation with her."

Blaine's soliloquy was interrupted by the entrance of Guy Morrow, whose face bore the disgusted
look of one sent to fish with a bent pin for a salmon.

"I found Paddington, all right, sir," he announced. "I tailed him until a half-hour ago, but
I might as well have been asleep for all I learned, except one fact."

"Which is--" the detective asked quickly.

"That he went to Rockamore's office yesterday morning, remained an hour and came away with
a check for ten thousand dollars. He proceeded to the bank, had it certified, and deposited
it at once to his own account in the Merchants' and Traders'. He evidently split it up, then,
for he went to three other banks and opened accounts under three different names. Here's the
list. I tailed him all the way."

He handed the Master Detective a slip of paper, which the latter put carefully aside after
a casual glance.

"Then what did he do?"

"Wasted his own time and mine," the operative responded in immeasurable contempt. "Ate and
drank and gambled and loafed and philandered."

"Philandered?" Blaine repeated, sharply.

"In the park," returned the other. "Spooning with a girl! Rotten cold it was, too, and me tailing
on like a blamed chaperon! After he made his last deposit at the third bank, he went to lunch
at Duyon's. Ate his head off, and paid from a thick wad of yellowbacks. Then he dropped in
at Wiley's, and played roulette for a couple of hours--played in luck, too. He drank quite
a little, but it only seemed to heighten his good spirits, without fuddling him to any extent.
When he left Wiley's, about five o'clock, he sauntered along Court Street, until he came to
Fraser's, the jeweler's. He stopped, looked at the display window for a few minutes, and then,
as if on a sudden impulse, turned and entered the shop. I tailed him inside, and went to the
men's counter, where I bought a tie-clasp, keeping my eye on him all the time. What do you
think he got? A gold locket and chain--a heart-shaped locket, with a chip diamond in the center!"

"The eternal feminine!" Blaine commented; and then he added half under his breath: "Fifine
Déchaussée's on the job!"

"What, sir?" asked the operative curiously.

"Nothing, Guy. Merely an idle observation. Go on with your story."

"Paddington went straight from the jeweler's to the Democratic Club for an hour, then dined
alone at Rossi's. I was on the look-out for the woman, but none appeared, and he didn't act
as if he expected anybody. After dinner he strolled down Belleair Avenue, past the Lawton residence,
and out to Fairlawn Park. Once inside the gates, he stopped for a minute near a lamp-post and
looked at his watch, then hurried straight on to Hydrangea Path, as if he had an appointment
to keep. I dropped back in the shadow, but tailed along. She must have been late, that girl,
for he cooled his heels on a bench for twenty minutes, growing more impatient all the time.
Finally she came--a slender wisp of a girl, but some queen! Plainly dressed, dark hair and
eyes, small hands and feet and a face like a stained-glass window!

"They walked slowly up and down, talking very confidentially, and once he started to put his
arm about her, but she moved away. I walked up quickly, and passed them, close enough to hear
what she was saying: 'Of course it is lonely for a girl in a strange country, where she has
no friends.' That was all I got, but I noticed that she spoke with a decidedly foreign accent,
French or Spanish, I should say.

"Around a bend in the path I hid behind a clump of bushes and waited until they had passed,
then tailed them again. I saw him produce the locket and chain at last, and offer them to her.
She protested and took a lot of persuading; but he prevailed upon her and she let him clasp
it about her neck and kiss her. After that--Good Lord! They spooned for about two hours and
never even noticed the snow which had begun to fall, while I shivered along behind. About half-past
ten they made a break-away and he left her at the park gates and went on down to his rooms.
I put up for the night at the Hotel Gaythorne, just across the way, and kept a look-out, but
there were no further developments until early this morning. At a little after seven he left
his apartment house and started up State Street as if he meant business. Of course I was after
him on the jump.

"He evidently didn't think he was watched, for he never looked around once, but made straight
for a little shop near the corner of Tarleton Place. It was a stationery and tobacco store,
and I was right at his heels when he entered. He leaned over the counter, and asked in a low,
meaning tone for a box of Cairo cigarettes. The man gave him a long, searching glance, then
turned, and reaching back of a pile of boxes on the first shelf, drew out a flat one--the size
which holds twenty cigarettes. He passed it quickly over to Paddington, but not before I observed
that it had been opened and rather clumsily resealed.

