Captain Stirling describes the weather as very different from that which the French experienced;
but the latter were on the coast at the commencement of the winter season. They were apparently
so alarmed at the gales of wind, the rocks, and the reefs, and the banks, that they hastened
to leave behind them this part of the coast unexamined, with all convenient speed. The strong
westerly winds that prevail throughout the year in the southern ocean to the southward of the
tropic, appear to assume a northern direction near this part of the Coast of Australia. These
winds are here found to be cool and pleasant, and were generally accompanied by clear and serene
weather. The summer winds from the N.W. are not infrequent; and, coming charged with moisture
from a warm region into a colder one, they are invariably accompanied by rain; but, in the
immediate vicinity of the shore, land and sea breezes are constant and regular. The climate
appears to be delightful. While the Success was on the coast--that is, in the autumn--the average
height of the thermometer was 72 deg., the extremes being 84 deg. and 59 deg., the first occurring
before the sea-breeze set in, the latter at midnight. The French found the temperature when
at anchor, in June, from 14 deg. to 17 deg. of Reaumur, or 63 deg. to 70 deg. of Fahrenheit.
On the mountains, Captain Stirling says, the temperature appeared to be about 15 deg. below
that of the plain. The alternate land and sea breezes create a moisture in the atmosphere which
renders the climate cool and agreeable; the mornings and evenings are particularly so; and
the nights are almost invariably brilliant and clear. Such a climate, it is almost unnecessary
to say must be highly favourable to vegetation, which was accordingly observed to be most luxuriant.
"The verdant appearance," says Captain Stirling, "and almost innumerable variety of grasses,
herbaceous plants, shrubs, and trees, show that there is no deficiency in the three great sources
of their sustenance, soil, heat, and moisture."

The general structure and aspect of the country may be thus described:--from Cape Leuwin to
Cape Naturaliste (the southern head of Baie Géographe,) which is not quite a degree of latitude,
the coast is formed of a range of hills, of uniform and moderate elevation. From Geographer's
Bay to the northward of Swan River, the whole coast line is a limestone ridge, varying in height
from twenty to six hundred feet, and extending inward to the distance of from one to five miles.
Behind this ridge (whose occasional naked and barren appearance Captain Stirling also thinks
may have caused the early and continued prejudice against the fertility of this western coast)
commences a great plain, which occupies a space, from south to north, of undetermined length,
(reaching, perhaps, to King George's Sound,) and varying, in breadth, from twenty to fifty
miles. The eastern boundary of this plain skirts the base of an almost continuous and abrupt
chain of mountains, to which Captain Stirling gave the name of "General Darling's Range." One
of the points, the highest seen and measured by him, was about three thousand feet high, The
average height is stated to be from twelve hundred to fifteen hundred feet. The base is granite;
the sides, in many parts, naked; and the soil supports but little vegetation, except the Stringy-bark
and some hardy plants.

Captain Stirling observes, that coal was not found, because it was not particularly sought
for; but he is of opinion that the general character of the country is such as to warrant the
belief that it might be found; "for," he observes, "all the concomitant strata or members of
the coal formation are exposed on different parts of the surface, below which I had no opportunity
to explore. Indeed, the carboniferous order of locks is that which is most frequently exhibited
throughout this territory; and I have no doubt important results would arise from a proper
examination into its mineralogical resources."

With reference to a supply of fresh water, so indispensably necessary in every settled country,
the researches made by Captain Stirling and Mr. Fraser were attended with the most satisfactory
results. The former observes, that the clouds which are impelled against the western side of
the range of mountains are condensed into rain, the water of which is conducted across the
plain to the sea, in numerous streams, but chiefly by three principal rivers, terminating in
estuaries, or salt-water lakes. These are--the Swan River, opposite the Island Rottenest; the
Rivière Vasse, and Port Leschenault, in Geographer's Bay. "We found," says Captain Stirling,
"a great number of creeks, or rivulets, falling into Swan River, more particularly on the eastern
side; and I am inclined to think, that the country generally is much divided by such water-courses.
Its supply of fresh water, from springs and lagoons, is abundant; for we found such wherever
we thought it necessary to ascertain their existence. At Point Heathcote," he adds, "we met
with a remarkable instance; for there the beach of a narrow rocky promontory is a bed of springs,
and by tracing the finger along any part within four inches of the edge of the salt water,
pure and fresh water instantly occupied the trace."

Mr. Fraser's testimony leaves no doubt of the abundance of fresh water. "I was astonished,"
he says, "at the vivid green of the Eucalyptus, and other trees and shrubs, so distinct from
those of New South Wales; but, on digging the soil to the depth of two feet, I found the cause
to arise apparently from the immense number of springs with which this country abounds; for,
at the depth above mentioned, I found the soil quite moist, although evidently at the latter
end of an exceedingly dry season; and from the same cause must arise the great luxuriance of
the herbaceous plants on the banks, which exceeds any thing I ever saw on the east coast. They
consist principally of the senecia and the sonchus, which here attain the height of nine feet."

He further observes, that numerous active springs issue from the rocks of the limestone ridge,
and particularly in Geographer's Bay, the whole coast of which, he says, "is a perfect source
of active springs, discharging themselves on the beach in rapid rills of considerable extent,
every six or seven yards."

Between the two heads which form the entrance into Swan River, there is, unfortunately, a bar,
made by the continuity of the limestone ridge. Over this bar, the depth, at low water, is but
six feet, and is therefore practicable only for boats or rafts. About a mile inside the heads,
the water deepens; and then commences a succession of cliffs, or natural wharfs, with four,
five, and six fathoms at their bases. The same depths are extended over a magnificent expanse
of salt water, to which Captain Stirling has given the name of "Melville Water;" and which,
in his opinion, wants only a good entrance to make it one of the finest harbours in the world,
being seven or eight miles in length, by three or four in width, and having a depth of water
from four to seven fathoms. This narrow entrance of the river, he thinks, might be made navigable
by ships of burthen, without difficulty or great expense.

When the town begins to rise, and substantial buildings are required, the blocks of stone procured
by quarrying this entrance will go far towards paying the expense of excavation.

Into this expansive sheet of water fall two rivers; one from the north-east, which is properly
the Swan River; the other from the south-east, called Canning's River. Captain Stirling examined
them both: the former to its source, the latter beyond the point where the water ceased to
be brackish. They are both sufficiently convenient for boat navigation, even at the end of
the dry season; and any obstruction might easily be removed to make them more so, by which
the productions of an immense extent of country might be transported by water-carriage.

Mr. Fraser remarks that nothing of the mangrove appears along the banks of the Swan River,
the usual situation of this plant being here occupied by the genus Metrosideros. The first
plain, or flat, as it is called, contiguous to the river, commencing at Point Fraser, is formed
of a rich soil, and appears, by a deposit of wreck, to be occasionally flooded to a certain
extent. Here are several extensive salt marshes, which Mr. Fraser thinks are admirably adapted
for the growth of cotton. The hills, though scanty of soil, are covered with an immense variety
of plants; among others, a magnificent species of Angophera occupied the usual place of the
Eucalyptus, which, however, here as on the eastern side, generally forms the principal feature
in the botany of the country, accompanied by Mimosa, Correa, Melaleuca, Casuarina, Banksia,
and Xanthorea. The brome, or kangaroo glass, was most abundant. On a more elevated flat, a
little further up the river, the botanist observes that the "magnificence of the Banksia and
arborescent Zamia, which was here seen thirty feet in height, added to the immense size of
the Xanthorea near this spot, impart to the forest a character truly tropical." He says that
about five miles to the eastward of the river, there is an evident change in the character
of the country: extensive plains of the richest description, consisting of an alluvial deposit,
equalling in fertility those of the banks of the River Hawkesbury in New South Wales, and covered
with the most luxuriant brome grass. The Casuarina, so common near the limestone ridge of the
coast, here disappears, and is succeeded by a pendulous species of Metrosideros, which continues
to the source of the river.

"From this point," says Mr. Fraser, "the country resembles, in every essential character, that
of the banks of those rivers which fall to the westward of the Blue Mountains in New South
Wales, varying alternately on each bank from hilly promontories of the finest red loam, and
covered with stupendous Angopheras, to extensive flats of the finest description, studded with
magnificent blue and water gums, and occasional stripes of Accacias and papilionaceous shrubs,
resembling the green wattle of New South Wales."

The higher the river is ascended, the more extended the flats become, and the better is the
quality of the soil. Here the country is said to resemble in character that on the banks of
the Macquarrie River, west of Wellington valley; and though marks of occasional floods appeared
on the lower plains, the upper flats had evidently never been flooded. The sides of the mountains
were bare of underwood, and their summits covered with large masses of iron stone, among which
were growing enormous trees of Angophera, and some straggling plants of Hakea. On a careful
examination of this part of the country bordering the two rivers from the sea-coast to the
mountains, Mr. Fraser says, "In giving my opinion of the land seen on the banks of the Swan
River, I hesitate not in pronouncing it superior to any I ever saw in New South Wales, east
of the Blue Mountains, not only in its local character, but in the many existing advantages
which it holds out to settlers. These advantages I consider to be,

"First, the evident superiority of the soil.

"Secondly, the facility with which a settler can bring his farm into a state of immediate culture,
in consequence of the open state of the country, which allows not a greater average than two
trees to an acre.

"Thirdly, the general abundance of springs, producing water of the best quality, and the consequent
permanent humidity of the soil; two advantages not existing on the eastern coast. And,

"Fourthly, the advantages of water carriage to his door, and the non-existence of impediments
to land carriage."

    [2] Published by J. Cross, 18, Holborn, opposite Furnival's Inn.

    [3] The Rivière de Cygnes of the French is a translation of the
        Zwanen Rivière of Vlaming.

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

ST. PAULS' CATHEDRAL.

Our readers are aware that the interior of the cupola of this magnificent cathedral, represents
the life of St. Paul, painted by Sir James Thornhill; but the neglect and decay of this grand
specimen of pictorial decoration may not be so well known. The great expense of erecting a
scaffold sufficient for its restoration, appears to have been the principal difficulty, added
to the want of artists experienced in this department of art. These obstacles, however, we
trust have been surmounted by Mr. E.T. Parris, of whose talents we spoke in our account of
the Colosseum, and who has just completed a model of an apparatus for getting at large domes.
The model has already been approved by an experienced architect, and submitted to the dean
and chapter of St. Paul's; so that the restoration of Sir James Thornhill's labours presents
an excellent opportunity for the immediate application of Mr. Parris's machinery; whilst its
accomplishment would be the means of rewarding individual ingenuity, and rescuing from decay
a valuable triumph of British genius.

Instantaneous Lights.

Oxymuriate matches must "hide their diminished heads" before the recent invention of a method
of obtaining light, by merely compressing a match, which inflames instantaneously. These matches
are called Prometheans, and comparing small things with great, we know not a better name to
imply the scientific age to which the invention belongs.

Fossil Fish.

Mr. Mantell, of Lewes, has lately added to his museum a fine specimen of a fossil fish, discovered
in a bed of clay belonging to the Hasting sand formation. Similar remains are abundant in the
strata of Tilgate Forest, in the white rock at Hastings, and in the sandstone quarries near
Tunbridge Wells; but they consist, for the most part, of detached scales only.

Wonders of Art.

Among the last we notice the model of a boat for aërial navigation, lately sent to the French
Academy from Rome; and the patent taken out at Paris for a coach with one wheel only, to accommodate
30 or 40 passengers. The perfection of the latter scheme in England would render indispensable
a complete revision of our Turnpike Acts.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCOTTISH INNS.

By Sir Walter Scott.

       *       *       *       *       *

CATCHING TIGERS.

In some parts of South America, a great many tigers are caught with the lasso by the Indian
and Creole inhabitants for the sake of their skins. They are also sometimes entrapped in the
following manner: a large chest, or wooden frame, is made, supported upon four wheels, and
is dragged by oxen to a place where the traces of tigers have been discovered. In the furthest
corner of the chest is put a putrid piece of flesh, by way of bait, which is no sooner laid
hold of by the tiger than the door of the trap falls; he is killed by a musket ball, or a spear
thrust through the crevices of the planks.--Memoirs of General Miller.

       *       *       *       *       *

ODE.

(From the Persian.)

  The joys of love and youth be mine,
  The cheerful glass, the ruby wine,
  The social feast, the merry friend,
  And brimming goblets without end.

  The maid whose lips all sweets contain,
  The minstrel with bewitching strain,
  And, by my side, the merry soul
  Who briskly circulates the bowl!

  A maiden full of life and light,
  Like Eden's fountains pure and bright;
  Whose sweetness steals the heart away,
  Mild, beauteous, as the moon of May.

  A banquet-hall, the social room,
  Cool, spacious, breathing rich perfume,
  Like that fair hall where, midst the roses,
  Each saint in heaven above reposes!

  Servants in briskness who excel,
  Friends who can keep a secret well,
  And merry men who love their lass,
  And drink your health in many a glass.

  Wine, sparkling like the ruby bright,
  Neither too sweet, nor yet too light;
  One draught from purple wine we'll sip,
  And one from beauty's rosy lip!

  A maid, whose joyous glances roll
  To cheer the heart and charm the soul;
  Whose graceful locks, that flow behind,
  Engage and captivate mankind!

  A noble friend, whose rank is grac'd
  By learning and poetic taste;
  Who, like my Patron, loves the bard,
  Well skill'd true merit to reward!

  Breathes there a man too cold to prove
  The joys of friendship or of love?
  Oh, let him die! when these are fled
  Scarce do we differ from the dead!

Gentleman's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY GAZETTES.

As one of the signs of the times we notice the almost simultaneous appearance of three new
Literary Gazettes, at Edinburgh, Oxford, and Manchester. One of the latter contains a wood-cut
of the Manchester Royal Institution, and eight quarto pages for three-pence. Among the original
articles is a sketch of Mr. Kean, in which the writer says, "Mr. Kean's countenance was some
years since, one of the finest ever beheld, and his eye the brightest and most penetrating.
Without ever having seen Lord Byron, we should say there must have been a great similarity
of features and expression between them."

       *       *       *       *       *

DUELLING CODE.

People talk about the voluminous nature of our statute-books, forsooth. Nonsense! they are
not half large or numerous enough. There is room and necessity for hundreds and thousands of
new laws; and if duelling cannot be prevented, it might at least be regulated, and a shooting
license regularly taken out every year; and the licenses only granted to persons of a certain
rank, and property, and age. Say, for instance, that none under fifteen years shall be allowed
a license; that livery servants, apprentices, clerks in counting-houses, coach and wagon offices,
hair-dressers, and tailors who use the thimble in person, should be considered as unqualified
persons. This would render duelling more select and respectable.--Rank and Talent.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOUTH AMERICAN BANDITTI.

