Published simultaneously in the Dominion of Canada by Longmans, Green & Company, Toronto.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The author wishes to acknowledge the assistance and hospitality of Direccion General del Turismo
in all its offices in Spain, the Spanish State Tourist Department in New York, and Iberia Air
Lines of Spain, without whose co-operation the gathering of much of the material and the personal
experience reflected in this book would have been impossible. A majority of the pictures were
drawn from photographs by Herb Kratovil, taken especially for this book.

  New York, 1957              Dee Day

Editor of this series: Sabra Holbrook

Seventh Impression

Library of Congress Catalog Number: 57-7427

MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

For My Parents

You probably know that it was a Queen of Spain, Isabella, who made it possible for America
to be discovered in 1492. It was an Italian sailor, Christopher Columbus, who first had the
strange new idea that he could sail westward from Spain in order to reach the Far East. He
came to Spain to tell people about his idea, and everybody he met thought he was crazy because
they knew, or thought they knew, that the northern corner of Spain, jutting out into the Atlantic,
was the very end of the world. Even the most daring sailors and fishermen wouldn't go very
far from that shore for fear they would drop over the rim into nothingness.

But Queen Isabella didn't think Columbus was crazy. She took time to listen to him and decided
she wanted to help him. She didn't have any money to buy ships for his expedition, so she ordered
a little fishing village, Palos, to build three ships as a way of paying a fine they owed her.
The fishermen of Palos knew how to build good, sturdy sailing vessels, and they soon had the
three ships ready for Columbus and his brave sailors.

That is why, in August of 1492, the daring expedition started from this little Spanish village.
What a sight! Three little ships, the Niña (Small Girl), the Pinta (Spotted), and the Santa
Maria (named in honor of the Virgin Mary) cast off from the wharf of Palos. Flags fluttered
in the breeze as the sails billowed out from the masts. All the villagers were lined up on
the shore to pray and to cheer, and the bells in the church rang as Columbus and his crew sailed
off "the rim" to the west in search of wealth and glory for Spain!

Many Spanish explorers followed Columbus to the New World, and even sailed all the way around
the world, west to east, but the Spanish people today are mostly "stay-at-homes." Sometimes
they leave home for a little while to make money, like the Spanish shepherds who are so good
at handling flocks of sheep that American ranchers in California, New Mexico, Nevada and other
western states pay them a lot of money to come and work for them. But those who leave always
go back to their beloved land as soon as they have earned what they need.

If you were to meet a Spanish person, you would find that he would be interested in America
and other countries, but he couldn't imagine living the rest of his life anywhere except in
Spain. "Why should I ever live anywhere else?" he would ask you. "Everything beautiful and
good in life is right here." He would feel this way even though he might be very poor and might
even have to leave for a little while, like the shepherds. To him, the important things in
life are his family, his friends, his church and his country.

His country is a large, squarish, mountainous land at the southwesternmost tip of Europe. To
the north, over the tall wall of the Pyrenees Mountains, is France. To the west is Portugal
and the Atlantic Ocean, and to the east is the Mediterranean Sea. Spain has more seacoast than
any other European country and more mountains than any except Switzerland. Spain and Portugal
together make up what is called the Iberian Peninsula. It is named for the Iberian people who
came there from North Africa almost 5,000 years ago and settled down to become the ancestors
of the Spanish people.

If you were to stand at the bottom of the Iberian Peninsula, on a hill overlooking a town called
Algeciras, you could look right into Africa, only twelve miles away. You would also see the
Rock of Gibraltar--a giant rock rising out of the sea and turned into a fort to guard the narrow
passage between the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea. This passage is the Strait of
Gibraltar, and all ships must go through it to get from the sea to the ocean.

In this mountainous country between two seas, more babies are born every day than in any other
country in Europe. There are 29 million people in Spain already, although it is only the size
of our state of Montana, where 600,000 people live. This country might seem very small to us,
but it is the third largest country in Europe. And because their mountains shut different parts
of the country away from each other, there are many differences in ways of living among the
29 million Spaniards. There are 15 different regions in Spain, and each one has a different
way of dressing, different music and dances, different ways of fixing food, a different sort
of house to live in, and even different ways of speaking. Sometimes you will meet a Spaniard
who has never been out of his own region, or even away from his own village, because the mountains
make it very difficult to travel when your way of getting around is on your own two feet or
in a little cart pulled by a small burro or donkey.

Another reason for the many different ways of living is that Spain is a very old country which
has been invaded many times by other countries. These countries were jealous of the beauty
and wealth of Spain and wanted to get it for themselves. For hundreds of years the Spanish
people were always fighting to protect their beloved homeland against invading armies.

The Iberians themselves were invaders, because they weren't the first people who lived in Spain.
We don't even know the names of those very first people who lived there when most of Europe
was covered with ice. We only know that they lived in caves and hunted wild animals, because
some of their caves have been discovered and the walls are covered with bright drawings of
the animals these people hunted--bison, deer, wild horses and wild boars.

After the Iberians, came the Celts, Greeks, Phoenicians, Carthaginians and Romans. From Rome,
Spain took her language, her system of laws, and her church. There were once more than 80 Roman
cities in Spain, with roads and bridges and walls which were built so well that they are still
used by Spanish people today. In the city of Segovia, the Romans built an aqueduct to bring
drinking water into the town from the nearby mountains, and this aqueduct still brings water
to the people of Segovia.

The Romans liked Spain so much they stayed 500 years, but finally barbaric tribes from central
Europe drove them out. A short time later, these tribes were conquered by Moors from North
Africa. The Moors brought many new ways to the Spanish people. They spoke the Arabic language,
and worshiped Mohammed instead of Christ, in churches called mosques. They taught the Spanish
people algebra and the science of astronomy; they introduced a new kind of poetry, music and
dancing. They brought many new kinds of trees and flowers to Spain, like the date palm, the
orange and the pomegranate, and taught the people how to grow them with an irrigation system
which is still in use today. Many little Spanish boys learn how to run it, so that they can
help their fathers and mothers.

The Moors built many mosques and palaces in Spain which are still in use, and they look like
buildings from Arabian fairy tales. These Moorish buildings have their rooms built around open
courtyards, called patios, where orange and lemon trees and many bright flowers grow, and fountains
splash in the sunshine. The rooms have many pillars to support the ceiling, and all the pillars
and arches and ceilings are beautifully carved. The Moors could carve hard stone so that it
looks like delicate lace, and this is what gives their buildings such a fairy-tale look.

The Spanish Christians, however, didn't like the Moors, and during all of the 800 years the
Moors ruled Spain, the Christians were fighting to drive them out. Finally, Queen Isabella
and her husband, King Ferdinand, led their Christian army to victory against the last Moorish
stronghold, Granada. Because of this victory, Queen Isabella didn't have to worry about fighting
for a while, and she was able to help Columbus.

When Columbus discovered America on October 12, 1492, he began Spain's most exciting period
of history. The next century after Columbus was called the Age of the Conquistadores. Conquistadores
were adventurers who set out to find and conquer new lands for Spain in the New World which
Columbus had discovered. Many of their conquests later became part of the United States. For
instance, De Soto claimed the Mississippi River and all the rivers that run into it, as well
as part of the land that is now the American Southwest. Ponce de Leon, looking for a magic
fountain that would keep people young forever, discovered Florida and claimed for Spain the
land that is now the American southeast. Cortez, who had conquered Mexico for Spain and had
sent millions of dollars' worth of gold and jewels back to his homeland, also traveled through
the Southwest and as far north as Colorado. The great Pacific Ocean, which washes the western
coast of both North and South America, was discovered by a Spaniard named Balboa. One Spanish
sailor, Juan Sebastian Elcano, was the very first man to sail all the way around the world.

The Conquistadores sent back a huge treasure of gold, silver, copper and jewels to Spain, and
more than paid Queen Isabella and her family for her faith in Columbus. In fact, Spain became
one of the most important countries in Europe. Her queens and kings and princesses married
rulers of other countries so that soon, in addition to being very rich and owning many countries
across the ocean, Spain owned most of Europe too. She was sitting on top of the world. Only
England had stood up against the Spanish power. So in 1588, Spain sent a great fleet of warships,
called the Armada, to challenge England. England won.

Spain never recovered from this defeat by England. It became harder for her to govern the lands
she had conquered. Today only two places outside the country are still Spanish. They are the
Canary Islands out in the Atlantic Ocean near the coast of Africa, and the Balearic Islands
in the Mediterranean.

At the same time that Spain was losing lands she had conquered, her own lovely land tempted
other countries, and the Spanish people were called upon to fight invading armies from England
and France. The real losers during all these years of fighting were the Spanish people. They
had to fight instead of grow crops, and natural resources, like forests, were neglected or
used up. Spain fell further and further behind other countries, and even today she hasn't been
able to catch up as far as she would like.

All the unhappy years of fighting in Spain weren't in the long-ago past. Just a while ago,
in 1936, a Civil War broke out between the Spanish people who wanted their king to come back
to the throne he'd left in 1931, and the people who wanted Spain to set up a republic, like
ours in the United States. This war went on for three years, and in the end, everybody lost.
General Francisco Franco and his army defeated the forces which wanted a republic, and also
those who wanted to set up Communism. He is now the head of the Spanish government. Because
he is considered a dictator, there are many Spanish people who disagree with the way he runs
the government and are hoping to change it. In 1947 a new constitution was written in which
General Franco agreed that Spain would one day have a king again, but the person who becomes
king must be at least twenty-five years old. The old king is dead and there is nobody for the
job right now. But the king's grandson, young Prince Juan Carlos, is taking special studies
so he will be ready to be king when he is old enough. And of course there are still people
who would like to see Spain become a democratic republic, like the United States, and not have
a king at all.

In the meantime, the Spanish people and their government have a lot to do to make their country
stable and strong again. If you were to visit Spain, you would see why the Spanish people love
their country so much. You could also understand why so many different nations wanted to conquer
Spain. Spain is a very beautiful country and also a country that can produce many good things.
It has minerals such as iron, lead, copper and sulphur in the earth. In the south, it has a
warm climate that helps grow luscious crops of oranges, lemons, olives and grapes for wine.

You might like to take a trip from one region to another by riding on a little donkey as Spanish
boys do, or in a little high-wheeled cart pulled by a donkey, the way little Spanish girls
might do. Your donkey would probably not have a saddle, but just a rug or a straw mat folded
across his back, and he might wear a headband of bright red and blue wool woven into a gay
pattern to shade his eyes from the sun. You could carry your food and clothes for the journey
in a pair of straw bags hung one on each side of your donkey's back. Along the way, you would
see dozens of other little donkeys and burros. The burro is a donkey-cousin but even smaller.
Donkeys and burros work with the Spanish men and boys in the fields or carry stones to help
build new roads, or carry jars of water from a well to someone's house. These gentle little
animals work to earn their keep in Spain.

Suppose you start your trip in the north. At the very most northwestern tip of Spain is the
region of Galicia, which everybody thought was the end of the world before Columbus showed
them it wasn't. People in Galicia call themselves "Gallegos," and they live in a country of
rocky seacoasts, where the ocean pokes long fingers called "rias" back into green hills and
fog rolls in almost every day. In Galicia and the neighboring region of Asturias, fathers earn
their living by fishing or by farming, and mothers make all the clothes for their families
from cloth they weave themselves. Families live in houses built from stones cleared from their
own fields. This is where the bagpipes are played while the young people, gaily dressed in
red and green, dance their lively dances.

This northern region is quite different from the sunny south, where the climate is very hot
in the summer and never really gets cold in the winter. Here in the south is Andalusia, where
mountain ranges may have snow on their peaks all year round, but down in the valleys and plains
sweet-scented tropical flowers bloom in bright colors every single month. On the hillsides,
grapes are grown to make wine, or silvery-green olive trees make groves against the red earth.
This is a region of horses and good horsemen. Here big ranches stretch along the river banks
and huge black bulls are raised.

The people of Andalusia are full of music, dancing and the love of life. They live in white
houses built around courtyards full of flowers, with windows covered with designs in black
wrought iron. Black-haired Andalusian women wear black lace mantillas draped over their heads,
a kind of veil and shawl. They like to carry lacy fans and wear long flashing earrings. Lots
of gypsies live in Andalusia, many of them in caves in the chalky-white hillsides. Gypsy girls
wear long red or green or blue dresses dotted with white. They fold bright-colored silk fringed
scarves around their necks, and they love to wear many gold bracelets. Andalusia is the region
the Moors loved the most, so this is where you'll see many of their lovely stone buildings
full of lacelike carvings.

It's like going into another world to journey from Andalusia into western Spain. In Extremadura,
the land where the Conquistadores lived, and in León, there are great sweeping plains where
the land is not very fertile because there are long dry seasons. Raising sheep, fruit and pigs
are the main sources of making a living, and the people must work very hard. They don't have
time for as much fun as the Andalusians do. These people are quiet but proud. They are especially
proud of their universities, libraries and cathedrals.

Still another little world in this country of contrasts is found in the eastern part of Spain,
along the Mediterranean coast and in the region inland from this coast. The coastal regions
are called, from north to south, Catalonia, Valencia and Murcia, all very pretty names. Catalonia
has a long seacoast which is cut by many bays and coves reaching back right into the mountains,
which rise straight from the sea. Many white sand beaches, rimmed with pine trees, invite you
to stop and swim and sun. If you stopped, you could have fun climbing around the ruins of old
walls and watchtowers on the hills looking out to sea. Once upon a time on these hills, lookouts
used to give warning when pirates were sailing up to plunder the villages. One of these Catalonian
villages, called Tossa de Mar, has a whole village built inside the walls on top of a hill
above the regular village. People used to gather in this hilltop hideout for protection against
pirates. The second largest city in Spain, Barcelona, is in Catalonia, and it has a very busy
harbor where ships of all nations sail in and out every day.

Valencia, south of Catalonia, is a land of flowers. Carnations, roses, jasmine, scarlet bougainvillea
vines, and orange and lemon blossoms fill the air with perfume. Every Spaniard loves flowers,
and every window and courtyard is full of blossoms. In the city of Valencia there's a Battle
of Flowers every year during one of their festivals. Great baskets of rose petals and carnations
line the streets and everyone dips out handfuls to toss over his neighbors and friends. You
can imagine that in a very short time the whole city looks as if it were paved with flowers.

In Sitges, a small fishing village a few miles north of Valencia where the most beautiful carnations
in Spain are grown, there is a Carnation Festival every June, and here the main square actually
is paved with flower petals, laid out in gorgeous designs for the occasion. The land in the
region of Valencia is so fertile that, with the help of the irrigation system set up long ago
by the Moors, the people today grow as many as four crops a year of rice, vegetables, melons
and oranges.

Murcia has a small bit of seacoast, but the rest of it is mostly desert land where the earth
looks like chalk-dust. It gets so hot people can't go out in the middle of the day. They stay
indoors in the cool darkness as much as possible. Murcia is very much like North Africa, and
in some of the old towns the women still wear heavy veils over their faces the way the Moors
from North Africa did. You wouldn't be at all surprised to see a camel train in the chalky
dust of the dry river bed, but instead, it's just another procession of little donkeys carrying
goods to market in their straw saddlebags, driven by men hiding under huge hats from the burning
sun.

The regions of Navarre and Aragon, in the northeast, are quite different from Murcia's desert.
They have a rich, mountainous countryside with the tall Pyrenees marching across the north.
Many wild animals are found in these regions, including some which are rare in other parts
of the world, like the chamois, the ibex, the wild boar, bears, several kinds of deer, and
the great golden eagle. Like other northern regions of Spain, there's snow in the winter and
people go sledding and skiing.

Just to the north are the Basque Provinces, on the southern slopes of the Pyrenees and stretching
along the Bay of Biscay. The Basque people are known as the "Mystery Men of Europe," because
nobody is sure where they came from. Nobody knows where the strange language they speak came
from either. We do know that they are a very ancient people, perhaps direct descendants of
the original Iberians. The Basques are fearless and daring, and are noted throughout the world
as excellent sailors and sheep-herders. When you visit the Basques, you will notice that they
all like to eat enormous meals, they like to gamble, and they like to play "jai alai," a very
fast ball game which they invented.

"Jai alai" means "happy festival" in the Basque language, and the game is a very exciting and
happy one. The ball, slightly smaller than a baseball, is very hard and can travel very fast.
Players have curved baskets attached to their right wrists, and they must scoop up or catch
the ball in these baskets and immediately throw it and try to hit a certain spot marked off
on the wall. If it doesn't hit the right spot, the opposing team scores a point. If it hits
the right spot, the other team must try to scoop it up before it bounces and send it back,
hitting a certain spot on the other side of the court.

You can see that it can be a very fast and complicated game. You could see jai alai played
in specially built concrete courts in many cities in Spain, also in the state of Florida, right
here in our own country. A jai alai court is called a "fronton." But in the Basque country
you'd see all the men and boys in the village playing jai alai back of the church, using the
high stone wall as their court. Girls don't play it very often, but when they do it is a very
pretty sight, because they wear wide skirts of blue or red with many white petticoats underneath.
When they run and turn to hit the ball, their skirts swing around wildly and make them look
like spinning tops.

Completely different from the Basque country and all other regions is the central part of Spain.
It is a high plateau bordered by still higher rugged rocky mountains. The weather is very hot
in summer and very cold in winter, with scorching or icy winds blasting across the land because
there are no forests to break their force. Great gray boulders thrust out of purple-green hillsides,
and rivers cut deep gorges in the gray soil. This central part is made up of two regions, Old
and New Castile. Old Castile is to the north, and cattle are raised in the green fields fed
by mountain streams.

Castile means "land of castles," and both Old and New Castile have cities built around castles
and cathedrals, sometimes surrounded by walls built during the years of warfare. One of these
cities in Castile is Avila, which has high stone walls so thick that four or five soldiers
could march side by side on top all the way around the city. There are 88 round towers rising
from these walls, where sentries and lookouts were posted, but only 16 ways to get in and out,
so that the city could be guarded more easily.

Not far from Avila is the famous palace of El Escorial, where most of the kings and queens
of Spain are buried. Castile isn't the only part of Spain with castles, of course. If you were
visiting Spain today, you could stay overnight in many of these castles and pretend you were
a king or queen of lovely Spain. These castles made into hotels are called "paradores," and
a visit to one of them is great fun.

Because Castile is in the very heart of Spain, the capital, Madrid, is located there. Madrid
is a lively, bustling, modern city of more than 1-1/2 million people. It is the highest capital
in Europe, being almost half a mile above sea level in the center of the great mesa or tableland
of Castile. Madrid is not a very old city compared with such ancient cities as Avila, but it
has an old section built around the Plaza Mayor--the main square--where steps lead down into
winding, narrow streets with arches and covered sidewalks. The larger part of Madrid is a modern
city with wide boulevards lined with trees, where people can sit at sidewalk terrace cafés
sipping coffee or wine or lemonade and watching other people streaming by.

Sometimes it seems that everybody in Madrid lives outdoors all the time, because there are
always so many people on the streets all day and all night. Meals are served very late--lunch
is at 2 o'clock or later, and dinner not until about 10. Concerts, plays and movies don't start
until 11 o'clock at night, or even midnight. Even very young children and babies stay up late
with their parents, to visit with friends at a sidewalk café or to go to a movie. Only in the
middle of the day, when it is hot, everybody goes indoors for a long nap. This is called a
"siesta," and during siesta time the streets of Madrid and all other Spanish cities are deserted.
Shops and offices are closed. There is almost no traffic on the streets and boulevards. From
1 to 5 every afternoon, a stranger in Spain might think that a great calamity had happened
and made Spain a land of sleeping princes and princesses.

After siesta, the streets wake to an even more bustling life than before. Offices and stores
open again to serve their customers until 7 or 8 o'clock at night. The sidewalk cafés and restaurants
become busier than ever. Every chair is taken, and the conversation goes on at such a fast
rate that unless you understood Spanish very well, you could be lost in the rushing sound of it.

Spain has other proud cities besides Madrid. Two, whose history goes way back to the days of
the Moors, are Granada and Toledo.

Granada is the city in Andalusia which the Moors loved most and held longest. They fought hard
to keep it, and when they finally surrendered it to Ferdinand and Isabella in 1492 they wept
bitterly, for it seemed to them they had lost a Paradise. The great fortress-palace of the
Moors in Granada is called the Alhambra, which means "red castle." About a hundred years ago
an American author, Washington Irving, went to live in the Alhambra. He found the romantic
castle very much as the Moors had left it, except for the dust which hadn't been removed in
400 years. He walked through the echoing corridors and into the moonlit courtyards with their
silent fountains. He talked with dozens of old Spanish and gypsy storytellers to learn all
he could about the Alhambra. He even claimed he could see the ghosts of the sultans who had
once lived there. Then he wrote a book, Tales of the Alhambra, which we can still read and
enjoy. Because of his book, the Alhambra was cleaned and restored to all its former beauty.

Today the carved white and golden stonework of this castle shines with the splendor of long
ago. One of its most interesting courtyards is called the Court of the Lions. Twelve very old
stone lions, each with a different expression on his face, stand in a circle in the center,
supporting the curved bowl of a fountain on their backs. Out of each lion's mouth trickles
a little stream of water, helping to cool the air. Everyone who visits the Alhambra loves these
funny old lions and goes away with a picture of them.

The Moorish sultans entertained their guests and held big parties in courtyards like this one.
But they lived with their families and servants in another part of the Alhambra, with gardens
and a sparkling pool where the royal ladies bathed. Looking out through certain of the arching,
carved windows, the sultans could see the snow-covered Sierra Nevada Mountains. The Sierra
Nevada peaks have snow the year round, even in the hottest summers. When the Moors lived in
the Alhambra, swift-running slaves would bring snow from the mountains to make sherbet for
the sultans and their guests in hot weather.

From other windows in the Alhambra the sultans could see Sacro Monte--the Holy Mountain--where
gypsies still live today in whitewashed caves. Many centuries ago the gypsies didn't have homes,
but wandered throughout the world. When some of them came to Granada, they fell in love with
the city and decided to stay. Now there are thousands of them living in Andalusia, many of
them in Sacro Monte. Their cave-homes are really quite comfortable. Many have fine copper cooking
pots hanging on the walls and beautiful works of art, and hangings of hand-woven fabrics. If
you go to Granada, you can visit a gypsy cave and the gypsies will dance for you to a kind
of music which is called "flamenco." Nobody knows where the flamenco came from, but some say
it is as old as the Phoenicians, and some say--even older.

Toledo is another old, old city in Spain--at one time the capital. Toledo is built on a series
of hills above a river, called Tagus, which winds around the base of the city like a natural
moat around a fortress. Nearly four hundred years ago a Greek painter came to Toledo and stayed
to become one of Spain's--and the world's--greatest artists. He was known as "El Greco," which
means The Greek, and today most people have forgotten his real name.

Perhaps you have seen his famous painting of the city he loved, called "View of Toledo." If
you have, you know what Toledo looks like today, for it has changed very little since El Greco
painted it. You could take your crayons or paints to the same spot across the River Tagus where
he stood with his canvas and easel, and you would see the same rapids in the river, the same
arched gateways in the city walls, the same cathedral spire rising from a hill.

Then you could cross an old bridge, and go through a Moorish gateway into town. Walking along
a cobblestone street, you might pass an old church which has iron chains hanging on its walls.
These are the chains of Christian slaves captured by Moors, then freed by Christian armies.

At the top of one hill you would discover an old house with red tiled roof and a garden full
of roses, geraniums, mimosa, Jasmine and oleanders. This is the house where El Greco lived,
and you'd see his easel, his bedroom, his kitchen and furniture just as he left them. In a
small museum next to the house you'd find paintings by El Greco, mostly pictures of saints
and portraits of famous Spaniards of his time. One of his paintings is in a chapel in town
and others are in other churches throughout Spain, and in the Prado Museum in Madrid, along
with those of other great Spanish painters like Valesquez, Goya and Murillo.

The people of Toledo have a special art of their own--making fine jewelry called "Toledo ware."
The Moors brought the knack from the ancient city of Damascus. Threads of gold and silver are
woven into intricate patterns with fine steel. When the piece is put into a hot furnace, the
steel part of the pattern turns black, then the gold and silver designs are polished until
they shine. Originally the Moors made their big swords this way, but today Toledo ware is bracelets,
earrings, cuff links and other small jewelry.

The people of Toledo also make glistening glazed tiles. Some of these show scenes from the
lives of favorite Spanish heroes, real and imaginary. There are some Toledo tiles that will
tell you about Don Quixote of La Mancha, a hero invented 350 years ago by Miguel Cervantes.

Cervantes wanted to tease his fellow countrymen about reading so many books with stories that
could never happen in real life. So he wrote a book of his own about Don Quixote, a foolish
old fellow who imagined he was a handsome knight. The poor Don rode all around the country
on a rickety old horse dreaming he was rescuing beautiful ladies and fighting imaginary battles
for his king. Once he even tried to fight a windmill, thinking it was a giant! Another time
he thought a shepherd and his flock were an army!

Cervantes' fun-poking book is still read and laughed over by people throughout the whole world.
Today, if you were to drive from Granada to Toledo or Madrid, you would pass through Don Quixote's
country, La Mancha, and you would see windmills and the shepherds leading their sheep and goats,
with all the countryside looking much as Cervantes described it through Don Quixote's eyes.

Wherever you stopped for the night, you would see a great walking-around, which begins at 7
o'clock. Every family comes out to join in this evening custom which is called "paseo." Of
course the children come too, dressed in their best clothes. But boys and girls do not walk
together. Two or three girls will walk by, arm-in-arm, and several boys will walk by, talking
together and looking at the girls from the corner of their eyes. In the smaller places, all
the older boys walk together in one direction while all the older girls walk arm-in-arm in
the opposite direction, or else on the other side of the street.

Just as boys and girls don't walk together in the paseo, they don't often play games together
either--at least not after they are old enough to go to school. Before school days start, all
children play singing and dancing games something like our "London Bridge." They play tag and
a favorite game called "Hit the Pot." They put a tin can or an old clay pot on the end of a
long stick and blindfold the child who is "It." The others then run around with the stick while
"It" tries to knock off the can with another stick. But when they are six years old, all little
boys and girls must go to school, and--except in small villages where there are only a few
children to study with one teacher--they go to separate schools, so they stop playing together
then, too.

Little girls jump rope, play with jacks and dolls. Or they play singing games which act out
the parts of kings and queens and princesses. Little boys are most interested in games with
balls, like jai alai or football.

The favorite game of most little boys in Spain is "Torero." In this game they pretend they
are bullfighters, who are called "toreros." Every boy in Spain dreams of growing up to be the
greatest bullfighter in the world. Bullfighting is one of the most exciting things in life
to every Spaniard.

Every big city has a great bullring, a round building with many steps of seats and no roof,
called the "Plaza de Toros." "Toro" is the bull. The bulls are especially bred for the ring,
because no ordinary cow or bull would be able to take part in this colorful pageant. Almost
every Sunday afternoon throughout the year, and at holiday times, there is a "corrida" or bullfight,
and everybody goes to see the toreros fight the bulls.

Bullfighters in Spain are the same heroes to Spanish boys and girls that baseball players are
to American youngsters. This is the reason why you'll see all the little Spanish boys playing
Torero. One pretends he is the toro and wears a basket over his head as he charges at the one
pretending he is the torero with a red cape and wooden sword.

Although Spanish children like to play, they are also very serious about schoolwork, because
they know that if Spain is to be a wise member of the family of nations, she needs educated
citizens. During the Civil War it was very hard for young people to get an education, and some
of the schools and universities were destroyed by bombs or fires. Now the universities have
been rebuilt, and more schools are being built every year.

Some boys and girls go to schools run by their church, and they are taught by priests and nuns.
According to law, everyone must go to school until the age of fourteen. Then, if the family
can afford it, they can go on to higher schools and the university. If the family is poor but
a boy is very bright, he may win a scholarship by getting high marks. Because boys are more
likely than girls to go to a university, they study more science and mathematics in school
than their sisters do. Of course they all study reading, writing, history, arithmetic and good
manners.

When a Spanish boy grows up and has a university education, he may become a doctor, lawyer,
banker, newspaperman or government worker, just as any of you may. If he is going to be a farmer,
a fisherman, or fashion things with his hands as a carpenter or wrought-iron maker does, he
probably won't go to school after he is fourteen. If he's going to do the same thing his father
does, his father will teach him. Otherwise, he may become an apprentice, which means that he
will work right along with grownups who already do what he wants to learn. He learns by doing
it with them.

Little Spanish girls, who wear pinafores to school and do their hair in pigtails, are more
interested in learning how to be good mothers, because every little Spanish girl dreams of
marrying and having lots of children. They learn how to read and write, and the history of
their country, but they also learn how to cook and sew and bring up children.

Recently some Spanish girls have started learning how to be lawyers, doctors and teachers.
These girls, like their brothers, go on to universities. Some girls also learn shorthand and
typing so that they can work in offices. Before the Civil War there were no girls in offices,
but today they like being secretaries and typists just as girls in America do. Still, even
these modern Spanish girls don't have the freedom to go to parties or on dates with boys, the
way American girls do, unless they are engaged to be married. When they go out at night for
the paseo or to attend the theater or a movie, they go with other girls or with their whole family.

A strong family bond unites all Spanish people. Fathers and mothers and children spend as much
time together as they possibly can. If being together means that children must go with parents
into the fields at harvest time, then they go, even if they only play around and don't really
help. In the evenings when the father and mother go to the paseo or sit in a café to talk with
their friends, their children go with them.

Always the whole family goes to church together. One of the most important days in a Spanish
child's life is the day of confirmation. Then the family and relatives and friends from miles
around come to celebrate. All over Spain, on a Sunday morning, you'll see the little girls
in their long white dresses with white gloves and veils, looking proud and happy as they walk
to church with their beaming mothers and fathers for their confirmation. When boys are confirmed,
they wear white suits, with a cape lined in scarlet or blue satin and trimmed with gold braid.
If the family has enough money, they may hire a horse-drawn carriage. The driver wears a tall
black stovepipe silk hat and the carriage doors and horses' bridles are decorated with white
flowers.

The church is very important in Spanish life. The Apostle James himself came to preach in Spain,
and later, after he had been killed in Palestine, his body was brought back to Spain for burial.
His tomb is in the beautiful Cathedral of Santiago--which is the way Spanish people say St.
James--in Compostela, in northern Spain. For thousands of years people from all over the world
have come as pilgrims to Compostela. Many little Spanish boys are named Santiago, or perhaps
Jaime, another way to say James in Spanish, for Santiago is the patron saint of all Spain.

Every city and village also has its very own private patron saint. Once a year there is a village
festival or "fiesta" in his or her honor. If you were to travel through Spain you would find
a fiesta somewhere every day of the year! These fiestas start in the morning when all the people
go to church, which is always decorated with hundreds of flowers and candles. Then in the afternoon
or evening there is a long parade from the church through the main streets and back to the
church again, with the figure of the saint standing on a flower-draped platform which is carried
on the shoulders of young men.

Choirs sing, candles and incense burn, and all the people stand in reverence along the route.
A bullfight is usually a feature of a saint's day too, with the whole town going to the Plaza
de Toros to watch. The paseo will be especially gay at fiesta time, and as darkness falls,
the guitars will start to twang, castanets will click and all the young people will gather
in the main square to take part in folk dances until morning. Sometimes the saint's fiesta
will last a whole week, with bullfights every afternoon and a fair every night.

One of the most unusual fiestas in all Spain is held every March in Valencia in honor of St.
Joseph. It is called the "Fallas de San José" because of the huge, grotesque figures called
"fallas" which are the main feature of the celebration. Every club and religious group in the
city spends weeks in advance of St. Joseph's Day building these figures out of papier-màché,
and each group tries to keep its design secret until the fiesta takes place. The best falla
wins a prize, and at the end of the three-day celebration, all the fallas except the prize-winner
are burned in a big bonfire while the people dance around it and fireworks are shot into the sky.

Of all holidays, Christmas is one of the merriest in Spanish homes. "Noche Buena," or Christmas
Eve, is a time for families to sit down to a wonderful feast. The mothers and older sisters
of the family have been preparing this feast for months, and fathers have been collecting the
best Spanish wines to store away until now. Turkey is the traditional dish at Spanish Christmas
dinners just as it is here. But Christmas is one of the few times turkey is ever served in
most Spanish homes, so it is really a special treat.

Spicy hams, stuffed roast lamb, and special fish dishes are also served with the roast turkey.
And no Christmas table would be complete without "turrones"--a candy made of honey and almonds,
something like our nougats. Dried figs and grapes, walnuts and hazelnuts load the table even
more. After dinner, the family goes to midnight services at church called "Misa de Gallo";
then they come home and celebrate until morning.

There are no Christmas trees in Spain, but each family makes its own Nativity scene, which
is set out in time for Christmas Eve. In some cities contests are held for the most beautiful
"Belen" scenes, as they are called, because "Belen" is the way Spanish people say Bethlehem.
On Christmas Day everybody goes calling to see the Belens in other people's houses.

Sometimes grownups exchange gifts on Christmas Day, but Spanish children don't receive their
gifts until January 6, Three King's Day. Instead of Santa Claus, the Three Wise Men, Melchior,
Gaspar and Balthasar leave gifts in the children's shoes. The shoes are set out in a window
or near the fireplace, filled with hay so the camels of the Three Kings may feast. In the morning
the hay is gone and toys, nuts, fruit and candy have taken its place.

Holy Week, the week starting with Palm Sunday and ending with Easter, is another important
time in Spanish life. On Palm Sunday, everyone throughout the country has palm branches from
Elche, an old town where the only palm grove in Europe grows. After carrying the branches in
processions through the streets and into the churches and cathedrals, people hang them on the
balconies of their houses, where they remain until the fresh palm branches of the next year
replace them.

The most colorful celebration of Holy Week is held in Seville, a city in sunny Andalusia. Every
night there are processions of robed and hooded men moving silently through streets lined with
thousands of men, women and children. All the figures of saints and Madonnas from all the churches
and the Cathedral are carried in one procession or another. The figures are dressed in costly
vestments and jewels, and the procession is lighted by flickering torches and candles. As the
figures pass beneath balconies crowded with watchers, a singer will suddenly break into a spontaneous,
unaccompanied song, called a "saeta," to salute the saint being carried by. The saeta is the
same sort of song the Moors used to sing when they lived in Seville and other cities in Andalusia,
and today it is usually sung by gypsies, thousands of whom live here.

Night after night these processions go on, until Good Friday, when the most gorgeous one of
all starts at 3 o'clock in the morning. This is the procession of the Virgin of Macarena, the
patron saint of bullfighters and all Seville. The Virgin is dressed up in robes of silver and
gold and wears jewels given by famous bullfighters and wealthy people. The men who march in
this procession wear costumes of rich red and gold, and there is an honor guard dressed like
ancient Roman centurions. The "Macarena" is the most popular saint in Seville, and everyone
watches her procession until it takes her back to her shrine in the gypsy section, Triana,
followed by thousands of gaily clad gypsies who spend the rest of the night singing and dancing
to the throbbing of guitars.

Shortly after Holy Week, Seville has another gay festival, this time called a "feria," which
is rather like a big country fair. For two weeks everybody celebrates all day and all night,
singing and dancing and visiting friends for a glass of wine. Every day there is a bullfight,
and at night there are concerts, dance and art shows, and plays. The huge fair grounds blaze
with light, and ferris wheels and merry-go-rounds spin gaily round and round.

Once upon a time, the feria was an auction for horses and cattle, and today it is still a time
when the best horsemen show off their fine horses and their skill at riding. During the feria,
the proud horsemen wear leather aprons something like our cowboys' chaps over their tight gray
riding pants. Their bolero jackets are black trimmed with braid, and their hats are black too,
the flat, wide-brimmed felt hats which horsemen always wear in Spain.

Horses are curried until they shine, and flowers and ribbons are twined in their manes and
tails and decorate their bridles. Beautiful black-haired girls dress up like gypsies, something
they would not be allowed to do at any other time. As the girls ride in the saddles behind
their young men, the long, flounced, polka-dotted skirts of red, green or blue fall down over
the horse's side. Black lace mantillas are draped over very tall combs in their hair, and a
gay flower is usually pinned behind one ear. Every carriage, every farm cart, every house and
every person is decorated with flowers.

At harvest time, when olives, grapes, fruit or grain are brought in from the land, there is
much merry-making, too. At Jerez de la Frontera, a sunny town in Andalusia where everybody
works at growing grapes and making them into a famous wine called sherry, the harvest festival
comes just before the grapes are ready to be harvested, in September.

High-wheeled vineyard carts decorated with vines and flowers are pulled, by sturdy oxen, out
of every vineyard in the countryside, carrying all the pretty girls who work there and a basket
of new grapes. The carts wind through the streets to the Cathedral, where the grapes are blessed
and all the people pray and give thanks for a good harvest. Then, in the square in front of
the Cathedral, a great flock of pigeons is loosed into the air. These are homing pigeons, and
they fly back to their homes in every part of Spain, carrying the message that the harvest
is about to begin. There's dancing in the streets all night, and the next day there are bullfights,
races and more dancing. Then the people all go to work to harvest the grapes.

On Spanish holidays, there is plenty to eat and drink. For visitors, eating is fun even on
any ordinary day. If you were to travel from region to region in Spain, you would notice that
people eat different foods in different places. Along the seacoasts, of course, they eat many
kinds of fish. In the north, one of the favorite seafood dishes is made of codfish cooked in
a delicious sauce of red and green peppers flavored with garlic. In Valencia you would eat
"paella" made of many kinds of shellfish, chicken, ham and rice flavored with saffron, a yellow
spice which grows in Spain. Paella is made in a big round iron pan over a charcoal fire, and
the little clams, shrimps, pieces of chicken and everything else that makes it good are tossed
in, a handful at a time, until the whole dish is ready to be served, right from the pan it
was cooked in.

Most families have a big lunch, at about 2 o'clock. If the weather is cool, this is very likely
to be a pot of stew, or "cocido." Depending on what part of the country you are in, this cocido
might be made of fish, lamb, beef or chicken. Whatever the meat or fish may be, the cocido
also includes all the vegetables that grow in the garden at that time of year. It's apt to
be flavored with garlic, sweet Spanish red peppers, and perhaps several spoonfuls of sherry wine.

In the hot summer weather in Andalusia, people eat a delicious cold soup as their main dish
at lunch, and sometimes at dinner too. This soup is called gazpacho, and it is made with Spanish
olive oil, vinegar, tomato juice and ice water. Very fine bread crumbs help make it thick,
and little pieces of fresh, cold tomatoes, cucumbers, green peppers, olives and onions float
on top.

Everybody in Spain eats a great many "churros." Churros are something like doughnuts, but they
are twisted into odd shapes and fried in olive oil until they are crisp all the way through,
not just on the outside. They are very fine for breakfast with hot chocolate, and they are
also good with sugar sprinkled on them as a between-meals snack. Another snack is almonds,
grown right in Spain, and shrimp the size of your little finger.

Some of the foods the Spanish children eat are the same ones their great-great-great-grandfathers
and mothers ate, too. Mostly, the houses where they live are also very old--as old as the holiday
customs that haven't changed in hundreds of years. These old ways and scenes are some of the
reasons Spain has been called "the land where time stands still."

Only just now is this old Spain about to become modern Spain. New roads, railroads and airfields
are being built to help people get around the country faster and to send food from farms and
seacoasts to markets in a hurry. All over Spain you hear the sound of hammers and chisels,
busily building a new life for the people.

Spain has joined the United Nations and Spanish boys and girls are eager to join all boys and
girls who want their countries to be partners in progress. If, in getting to know Spain, you
have learned to like it, perhaps you'll want to say "hello" and "good luck" to your Spanish
friends. Here is how to say it: "Saludos, amigos!"

History

     Before 200 B.C.--Earliest people lived in caves in northern Spain;
     were conquered by Iberians, then Celts. Phoenicians and Greeks
     came, and finally all were conquered by Carthaginians.

     201 B.C.--Romans conquered Carthaginians, began a rule lasting more
     than 500 years.

     406 A.D.--Barbarians, especially Visigoths, came into Spain from
     central Europe and eventually drove out the Romans.

     711 A.D.--The Moors came from North Africa and conquered all Spain
     in less than 10 years. Although the Christian Spaniards started
     fighting almost immediately for the "Reconquest" of Spain, the
     Moors were masters for almost 800 years.

     January 2, 1492--The Reconquest of Spain was completed when the
     armies of Ferdinand and Isabella drove the Moors out of the
     Alhambra in Granada, their last stronghold.

     August, 1492--Columbus sailed with his three ships from Palos in an
     effort to reach the Far East by sailing west; on October 12, he
     made his first landfall in the New World and claimed it for Spain.

     1492-1588--The Golden Age of Spain. Columbus discovered more lands
     in the New World, and Conquistadores planted the Spanish flag all
     through North and South America. Spain controlled most of Europe.
     It was a time of great artists and writers like Velasquez, El
     Greco, Murillo, Lope de Vega and Cervantes.

     1588--Spain's great naval Armada was defeated by England and the
     power of Spain began to decline throughout the world. Last overseas
     possessions were lost at the end of the Spanish-American War in
     1898.

     1931--King Alfonso XIII abdicated from his throne, went into exile;
     Spain became a republic.

     1936-1939--The Spanish Civil War. Nationalists led by General
     Francisco Franco won the war and the General became Chief of State.

     1947--The Law of Succession was adopted by Spanish Parliament,
     providing for a future King and new Spanish monarchy; this law
     altered in 1956 so that the monarchy may be established sooner than
     originally planned.

     1953--American aid program began; airfields, pipelines and other
     construction projects using American money and American builders
     help Spain develop a defense network and natural resources.

     1956--Spain admitted to the United Nations.

Index

  Alhambra, 37-40

  Andalusia, 26-27, 37, 55, 57, 60

  Aragon, 32

  Armada, 20

  Asturias, 25

  Avila, 34

  Balearic Islands, 20

  Barcelona, 30

  Basque, 33

  Bulls & bullfighting, 26, 45-46, 51-52, 56, 58

  Burros, 14, 24

  Canary Islands, 20

  Castile, 34-36

  Castles, 34-35

  Catalonia, 29, 30

  Cave drawings, 15

  Christmas, 52-53

  Church, 15-16, 46, 49-50

  Civil War, 21, 46

  Columbus, Christopher, 7, 8, 18

  Conquistadores, 19, 20, 28

  Donkeys, 14, 24, 32

  Don Quixote, 42-44

  Elche, 54

  El Escorial, 35

  El Greco, 41-42

  Extremadura, 28

  Festivals, 31, 56-58

  Fiestas, 50-52

  Flamenco, 40

  Food, 52, 53, 58-61

  Franco, Francisco, 21

  Galicia, 25

  Games, 45

  Geography, 11, 12, 25-36

  Gibraltar, 12

  Granada, 19, 37-40

  Gypsies, 27, 40, 56

  History, 7-8, 15-21

  Holy Week, 54-55

  Iberians, 11, 15, 32

  Isabella, 7, 8, 17, 19, 20

  Jai alai, 33-34, 45

  Jerez, 56

  León, 28

  Lions, 38

  Madrid, 36-37, 42

  Moors, 16, 17, 27, 31, 32, 37-40, 41-42, 55

  Murcia, 29, 32

  Navarre, 32

  Palos, 8

  Paradores, 35

  Paseo, 44, 49, 51

  Prado Museum, 42

  Pyrenees, 11, 32

  Regions, 12, 13, 24-36, 58

  Romans, 15, 16

  Saints, 50-51, 55

  Schools, 44, 45, 46-48

  Segovia, 16

  Seville, 55-57

  Shepherds, 9, 33, 44

  Siesta, 36-37

  Three Kings Day, 53

  Toledo, 37, 40-42

  Valencia, 29, 30, 31, 52, 60

Sources

In preparing this book, the author drew upon her own experience in Spain as well as historical
and other information supplied by official Spanish sources both in Spain and the U.S.

  Teachers may obtain additional information from Library of Congress,
  Washington, D. C.; Hispanic American Society, Inc. 80 Wall Street, N. Y.;
  Hispanic Institute, 435 West 117th Street, N. Y.;
  Hispanic Society of America (Museum and Library), Broadway between 155
  and 156 Streets, N. Y.;
  Iberia Air Lines of Spain, 339 Madison Avenue, N. Y.; Spanish Embassy,
  Washington, D. C. (Commercial Office and Office of Cultural Relations);
  Spanish State Tourist Department, 485 Madison Avenue, N. Y.

THE GETTING TO KNOW BOOKS

COVER TODAY'S WORLD

  Africa

  GETTING TO KNOW AFRICA'S FRENCH COMMUNITY

  GETTING TO KNOW ALGERIA

  GETTING TO KNOW THE CONGO RIVER

  GETTING TO KNOW EGYPT

  GETTING TO KNOW KENYA

  GETTING TO KNOW LIBERIA

  GETTING TO KNOW NIGERIA

  GETTING TO KNOW THE SAHARA

  GETTING TO KNOW SOUTH AFRICA

  GETTING TO KNOW RHODESIA, ZAMBIA AND MALAWI

  GETTING TO KNOW TANZANIA

  Arctic

  GETTING TO KNOW THE ARCTIC

  Asia

  GETTING TO KNOW BURMA

  GETTING TO KNOW THE CENTRAL HIMALAYAS

  GETTING TO KNOW HONG KONG

  GETTING TO KNOW INDIA

  GETTING TO KNOW JAPAN

  GETTING TO KNOW THE NORTHERN HIMALAYAS

  GETTING TO KNOW PAKISTAN

  GETTING TO KNOW THE RIVER GANGES

  GETTING TO KNOW THAILAND

  GETTING TO KNOW THE TWO CHINAS

  GETTING TO KNOW THE TWO KOREAS

  GETTING TO KNOW THE TWO VIETNAMS

  Caribbean and Central America

  GETTING TO KNOW THE BRITISH WEST INDIES

  GETTING TO KNOW COSTA RICA, EL SALVADOR AND NICARAGUA

  GETTING TO KNOW CUBA

  GETTING TO KNOW GUATEMALA AND THE TWO HONDURAS

  GETTING TO KNOW MEXICO

  GETTING TO KNOW PANAMA

  GETTING TO KNOW PUERTO RICO

  GETTING TO KNOW THE VIRGIN ISLANDS

  Europe; East and West

  GETTING TO KNOW EASTERN EUROPE

  GETTING TO KNOW ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, IRELAND AND WALES

  GETTING TO KNOW FRANCE

  GETTING TO KNOW GREECE

  GETTING TO KNOW ITALY

  GETTING TO KNOW POLAND

  GETTING TO KNOW SCANDINAVIA

  GETTING TO KNOW SPAIN

  GETTING TO KNOW SWITZERLAND

  GETTING TO KNOW THE SOVIET UNION

  GETTING TO KNOW THE TWO GERMANYS

  Middle East

  GETTING TO KNOW IRAN-IRAQ

  GETTING TO KNOW ISRAEL

  GETTING TO KNOW LEBANON

  GETTING TO KNOW SAUDI ARABIA

  GETTING TO KNOW THE TIGRIS AND EUPHRATES RIVERS

  GETTING TO KNOW TURKEY

  North America

  GETTING TO KNOW ALASKA

  GETTING TO KNOW AMERICAN INDIANS TODAY

  GETTING TO KNOW CANADA

  GETTING TO KNOW THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER

  GETTING TO KNOW THE U.S.A.

  Pacific

  GETTING TO KNOW AUSTRALIA

  GETTING TO KNOW HAWAII

  GETTING TO KNOW INDONESIA

  GETTING TO KNOW MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE

  GETTING TO KNOW THE PHILIPPINES

  GETTING TO KNOW THE SOUTH PACIFIC

  South America

  GETTING TO KNOW ARGENTINA

  GETTING TO KNOW BRAZIL

  GETTING TO KNOW CHILE

  GETTING TO KNOW COLOMBIA

  GETTING TO KNOW PERU

  GETTING TO KNOW THE RIVER AMAZON

  GETTING TO KNOW VENEZUELA

  United Nations Agencies

  GETTING TO KNOW F.A.O.

  GETTING TO KNOW THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION

  GETTING TO KNOW UNESCO

  GETTING TO KNOW UNICEF

  GETTING TO KNOW THE UNITED NATIONS PEACE FORCES

  GETTING TO KNOW WHO

  GETTING TO KNOW WMO

