Now that Soviet rule in England is apparently so imminent it seems to me that we ought to consider
a little more closely the application of its practical machinery. The morning papers reach
this village at three o'clock in the afternoon, so that nobody is in to read them, and when
one comes back in the evening one is generally too lazy, but a couple of rather startling sentences
about the coming Communist régime have recently caught my eye.

"The people of England, like the people of Russia," runs the first, "will soon be working under
the lash." And the second, so far as I remember, says, "Our rations will no doubt be reduced
to half a herring and some boiled bird-seed, which is all the unhappy Russians are getting to eat."

Before these changes fall suddenly upon us I think we should ponder a little on the way in
which they will affect our urban and agricultural life.

Take the House of Commons. A very large and symbolic knout might occupy the position of the
present mace, and from time to time the SPEAKER could take it up and crack it. As this needs
a certain amount of practice it will be necessary to select a fairly horsey man as Speaker,
and the Whips, who will follow the same procedure, should also be skilled practitioners. I
see no difficulty in applying the same method to commercial and factory life in general, still
less to the packing of the Underground Railway and the loading of motor-omnibuses and trams.

It is rather when we come to scattered rural communities that the system seems likely to break
down. Take the case of George Harrison in this village. When I first met George Harrison, and
he said that he thought the weather was lifting, he was carrying a basket of red plums which
he offered to sell me for an old song. On subsequent occasions I met him--

1. Driving cows. (At least I suppose he was driving them; he was sitting sideways on a large
horse doing nothing in particular, and some of the cows were going into one field and some
into another, and a dog was biting their tails indiscriminately.)

2. Clearing muck and weeds out of the stream.

3. Setting a springe for rabbits.

4. Delivering letters, because the postman doesn't like walking up the hill.

Now I maintain that there would be insuperable difficulties in making George carry out all
these various activities under the lash. Anyone, I suppose, under a properly constituted Soviet
régime might be detailed as George Harrison's lasher, Mr. SMILLIE, Mr. G.K. CHESTERTON, Lord
CURZON, Mr. CLYNES or the Duke of NORTHUMBERLAND. Can you imagine Mr. CHESTERTON walking about
on guard duty in a rabbit warren while George Harrison set springes in accordance with the
principles laid down by the Third Internationale for rabbit-snaring? or the Duke of NORTHUMBERLAND
standing in gum-boots in the middle of a stream and flicking George Harrison about the trousers
if he didn't rake out old tin cans at forty to the minute as laid down by the Moscow Code?
Now I ask you.

And then there is this half a herring and boiled bird-seed arrangement. George Harrison has
a sister of eighteen who kindly comes in to do cooking and housework for us every day. She
thinks us frightfully queer, and if we bought some herrings and bird-seed and asked her to
cook them for us I have no doubt she would oblige, but, though she doesn't much care what we
eat, there are a lot of things she doesn't eat herself, and fish is one of them. Porridge,
which, I suppose, is a kind of bird-seed, is another.

Not that Jane calls it eating, by the way. She calls it "touching," and there are any number
of things that she doesn't fancy touching. She will touch enormous platefuls of bacon or sausages
or almost any derivative of the domestic pig, and the same applies to puddings and cake. But
beef and mutton she does not touch, nor margarine, and we have to be almost as careful that
Jane Harrison has plenty of the right things to touch as about the whole of the rest of the family.

Now here again I think it would be quite possible to induce the people of England in our large
industrial centres to ration themselves on boiled herring and bird-seed. We should not use
those names, of course. The advertisements on the hoardings would say:--

  THE BOUNTIFUL HARVEST OF THE SEA BROUGHT TO THE BREAKFAST TABLE

or

  WHAT MAKES THE SKYLARK SO HAPPY?
  TRY HARRABY'S HEMP. A SONG IN EVERY SPOONFUL.

But propaganda of that sort would have no effect on Jane. She would simply say that she never
cared to touch herrings and that she did not fancy hemp-seed.

When I consider the cases of George and Jane I am bound to believe either that the Russian
moujiks (if this is still the right word) are more docile and tractable than ours, or else
that the Soviet régime will need a great deal of adaptation before it can be extended to our
English villages. Or, of course, it may be possible that some of the minuter details of M.
LENIN'S administration have not been fully revealed to me. I shall find out about this no doubt
when I return to London. In the meantime I am banking on George and Jane, whatever the COUNCIL
OF ACTION may do.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLD ORDER CHANGES.

    "'He brightened up a lot when his mother-in-law arrived,' said an
    onlooker.--"Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LUCERNE.

  O, every dog must have its day
    And ev'ry town its turn;
  For fair is fair ... and, anyway,
    Let's talk about Lucerne.

Lucerne is in Switzerland, and I am in Lucerne. The moment I heard that Mr. LLOYD GEORGE was
coming to Lucerne I felt that a new importance was added to Switzerland, to Lucerne, to me
and, if I may say so, to Mr. LLOYD GEORGE. But I felt that, if I didn't do something about
it, Lucerne and Mr. LLOYD GEORGE would get away with all the credit and my part in the affair
would be overlooked.

The question arose as to what to call that "something"? After a great deal of thought I decided
to try you with a short and simple "Lucerne," one of my reasons being that, if you get down
to the hard facts, there is no such place.

Try (as the G.P.O. suggests to disappointed envelopes)--try

  LUZERN.

Now don't let us have any argument about it, please. It makes no difference how long you have
called the place "Lucerne" or how many of you there are. It is no good saying that English
people and French people call it "Lucerne" and as victors the Entente have the right to impose
their wishes; and it is no good quoting authorities at me. Luzern calls itself Luzern, and,
to satisfy myself that it is not mistaken on the point, I have obtained complete corroboration
from the Amtliches Schweizerisches Kursbuch, an authority whose very name is enough to make
your Bradshaw look silly and shut up.

The avowed object of the PREMIER is to get away from people and politics and to have at last
a little uninterrupted holiday. Probably he counts on the difficulty of getting at him there,
having regard to that terrible bit of the journey Bern--Luzern, which covers sixty miles, takes
three hours and involves twenty-four stops, even if you take the mid-day express. There is
a train in the afternoon (its number is 5666, and I warn you against it) which takes four hours,
though it only stops twenty-four times also. The sinister fact is that all the trains on this
route stop as often as they can, which I attribute to that general wave of idleness which is
to-day spreading over Europe. But number 5666 is worse than others; or else it is getting old
and tired. I notice that among the trains doing the return journey there is no number 5666;
I suppose it has just as much as it can do to get there and that it never does return.

The PREMIER was not far out to count on this protective element, and it is still the fact that,
if you approach Luzern carelessly, it is ninety-nine to one that you will spend the best years
of your young life on that particular stretch of railway. But nowadays there is a back way
round, by Basel. Be quite firm in asking for your ticket. If the ticket man says, "You mean
Bâle?" or, "You mean Basle?" say, "No, I don't. I mean Basel." You have me and my friend, Amtliches
Schweizerisches Kursbuch, behind you. Stick firmly to your point, and by approaching Luzern
from the North you will approach it by a real express which only takes two hours to do its
sixty miles and hardly stops at all to take breath. So that finishes with Bern, as to the spelling
of which, though you would personally like to see some more "e's," you now repose confidence
in me. Would you like me to quote my authority?... All right; I won't say it again if it frightens
the children.

In the old days of Peace, Luzern was full of honeymoon couples, and, when Peace and honeymoons
and all that sort of nonsense were put a stop to, it became full of German interned prisoners
of war. It boasts many first-class hotels. One of them is patronised by the Greek ex-Royal
Family. A little unfortunate; but still you cannot expect to come and enjoy yourself in Switzerland
without the risk of running into an ex-Royal Family every corner you go round, and, what is
more, a Royal Family that wouldn't be ex- if it wasn't for you. It is a very good hotel, and
I recommend it for anyone who proposes just to pop over here.

Get hold of L.G. while he is not busy and explain to him how thoroughly misguided all his policies
are, especially as to the Near East. My idea is to group, according to subject and side, all
those who intend to get hold of the PREMIER, while he is alone, and to have a quiet chat with
him. I have my eye on a large hangar on the other side of the Lake, which was built to house
a dirigible and ought to hold the bulk of those who want a word about Ireland, a place they
could put right in five minutes if it was left to them. Deputations which have some idea of
declaring strikes, general strikes and international strikes, if matters are not arranged to
their liking, will be received between the hours of ten and twelve, and two and four, at the
Kursaal. Saturday afternoons and Sundays will be reserved for quiet walks. I am mapping out
some interesting routes, marking with a red dot the spots where the PREMIER is likely to stop
and admire the view, and where you can approach him quietly from behind and involve him in
an argument about Russia before he has time to get away.

Image a PREMIER arrived at the end of all the beautiful sights to be seen locally, inured to
all the magnificent scenery around him, and no longer attracted by the novelty of life abroad,
longing, it may be, for just one touch of home. Then is the moment for the little surprise
I am keeping for him up my sleeve. "Come along to a place close by," I shall say to him, for
I see myself with the whole business well in my hands now; "come along to a village I know,
whose very name will make you feel at home."

Just outside Luzern we stop at Meggen, but it's not that. Kussnacht gets us well abroad again,
and there is nothing particularly homely about Immensee, Arth-Goldau, Steinen, Schwyz or Brunnen.
In fact I can see my PREMIER getting suspicious and wondering what new political move this
may be, when suddenly there will burst upon his astonished gaze--

  FLUELLEN.

Let us leave him there, alone with his emotions, into which it would be impertinent to probe.
I may tell you quietly apart that there is a difference of opinion between me and Amtliches
Schweizerisches Kursbuch about this name. He wants to ration the l's, but, having been there
and heard the name pronounced, I have refused to be taught how to spell a good Welsh name by
a darned foreigner. If we are going to have any nonsense about it I have said that I shall
stand out for the proper, full and uncorrupt spelling: FLLEWELLYN.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "'That,' declared Mr. Lloyd George amid loud cheers, 'is one of the
    most formidable challenges ever given to democracy. Without hesitation
    every Government must accept that challenge.' 'Certainly we will,'
    retorted the Prime Minister."--Evening Paper.

No wonder Mr. LLOYD GEORGE wants a holiday if he has begun to talk to himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A telegram from Paris says: It is announced here that an agreement has
    been concluded between France, Great Britain and Italy regarding the
    delimitation of the open golf championship."--Provincial Paper.

It will be noticed that America seems once more to have held aloof from the councils of the Allies.

       *       *       *       *       *

"TO HIM THAT HATH ..."

It was Butterington who first put me up to the idea. I asked him a simple question about the
habits of the Sigalion Boa, a certain worm in whose ways I was taking an interest at the time,
and he at once replied that he himself was not in the fur line.

"Whenever," he went on, "I require information on any subject I apply to my bank. Why don't
you do the same?"

This opened up an entirely new prospect. To me my bank was an institution which kept my accounts,
issued money and, on occasion, lent it. It never entered my head that it was also ready to
perform the functions of an inquiry office and information bureau.

Previous communications from me had always begun, "Sir, with reference to my overdraft"--you
know the sort of thing one generally writes to banks; expostulating, tactful, temporising letters.

This time however I addressed them in different vein. Rejecting all mention of overdrafts as
being in doubtful taste, I wrote:--

SIR,--I shall be greatly obliged if you will kindly inform me, at your early convenience:

(1) Whether it is a fact that the African rhinoceros has no hair on the hind legs?

(2) Whether, in the case of my backing Pegasus in the first race, 'any to come' on Short Time
in the fourth, and Short Time not starting, I am entitled to my winnings over Pegasus?

(3) Whether, after perusing seventeen favourable reports from mining engineers and eighty-seven
enthusiastic directors' speeches, I am justified in assuming that gold actually does exist
in the Bonanzadorado mine?

Yours faithfully,

THESIGER CHOLMONDELEY BEAUCHAMP.

After some delay they answered as follows:--

SIR,--We have much pleasure in replying to the queries contained in your favour, of the 27th
ult.:--

    (1) Yes; (2) Yes; (3) No.

Assuring you always of our best endeavours in your service,

We remain, Yours faithfully, per pro The Cosmopolitan Bkg. Corpn.

C.O. SHINE.

So far so good. The Bank's manner left nothing to be desired, and its replies were certainly
to the point. I began to think of Mr. C.O. Shine as my personal friend and speculated as to
whether his first name were Claude or Clarence.

During the following week, whenever I became curious on any subject, I made notes of fresh
queries to propound. After accumulating a sufficient number I again wrote to the Bank. I forget
the exact points upon which I required information; one of them, I fancy, was the conjectured
geologic age of the Reichardtite strata. Anyhow I got no answer to any of them.

Instead, three days later, I received the following letter:--

SIR,--We regret to announce that, owing to a clerical error in this office, your account was
last month wrongly credited with a cheque for £13,097 5s. 10d. which was made payable to another
client of the same name.

Adjustments have now been made which reveal a balance on your account of £110 11s. 3d. in our
favour. We trust that you will find it convenient to cover this overdraft at an early date.

With reference to your letter of the 19th inst. containing assorted inquiries, we beg to intimate
that we can in no circumstances undertake to advise clients on general matters which lie outside
the scope of our interests.

Yours faithfully, per pro The Cosmopolitan Bkg. Corpn.

CHARLES O. SHINE.

And this time C.O.S. did not even "remain" in the plural.

I at once showed Butterington this offensive communication.

"Well," said he, "of course they won't answer communications unless you have a balance."

That is the way rich men talk.

"I am never without one," I replied with dignity, "on one side or the other."

"There you differ from your namesake, whose balance is clearly always on the right side. Hence
that first kindly letter, addressed to you in error."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROMANCE OF ADVERTISEMENT.

The following items, culled from recent issues of The Daily Lure, show where you should go
to find really interesting, stimulating and flat- catching notices:--

Partner, with not less than five thousand pounds, wanted for a wild-duck farm in the island
of Mull. Must be a man of iron constitution; Gaelic speaker and teetotaler preferred.

* * *

Wanted, a cheap Desert Island, with a good water-supply and home comforts, by a Georgian poet
weary of the racket of Hammersmith.

* * *

Complete suits of armour, guaranteed bottle-proof, ten guineas each, suitable for elderly pedestrians
in charabanc areas.

* * *

Madame Bogolubov, Crystal-gazer in ordinary to the ex-King CONSTANTINE, is prepared for a small
fee to advise intending explorers, prospectors or treasure-seekers as to suitable spots for
excavation, oil-boring, etc.

* * *

Disused Martello Tower on the Irish coast, fifty miles from a police barrack, offered cheap
as an appropriate basis of observation to psychic enthusiasts anxious to study the ways of
leprechauns, banshees, etc.

* * *

Genuine portraits by VAN DYCK, VELASQUEZ and REMBRANDT must be sold immediately to pay a debt
of honour. Price thirty shillings each, or would take part payment in pre-war whisky.

* * *

Semi-paralysed Yugo-Slav professor, speaking seventeen languages, will give lessons to neo-plutocrats
in the correct pronunciation of the names of all the foreign singers, dancers and artists performing
or exhibiting in London.

* * *

Persons interested in edible fungi may be glad to take shares in a fungus plantation about
to be started in the neighbourhood of Toller Porcorum, Dorchester.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RETURN OF THE COLONEL.

  House, the enigmatic Colonel, WILSON'S right-hand man in France
  When the PRESIDENT was leading Peace's great Parisian dance,
  Once again returns to Europe as a journalist free-lance.

  He's a most sagacious person, indisposed to carp or grouse,
  So we hope he'll be successful, aided by his tact and nous,
  In upholding Mr. WILSON, not in bringing down the House.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE UBIQUITOUS SCOT.

From The Times' summary of news:--

    "Our Constantinople correspondent, in a message reviewing the situation
    in Armenia, states that the Armenians have captured the ancient town of
    Nakhitchevan, where a Tartan Government had been set up."

Small wonder that, people complain that no place is safe from Scotland's activities. Meanwhile
there seems a likelihood of a Tarzan Government being set up in the film world.

       *       *       *       *       *

From Mrs. ASQUITH'S reminiscences:

    "One day after this conversation he [the late Lord Salisbury] came to
    see me in Cavendish Square, bringing with him a signed photograph of
    himself. This was in the year 1904, at the height of the controversy
    over Protection."--Sunday Times.

As Lord SALISBURY is generally supposed to have died in 1903, Sir ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE has been
requested to investigate the incident.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EVIL THAT MEN DO.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"HIS LADY FRIENDS."

The humours of the average farce are so elemental that in the matter of its setting there is
small need to worry about geographical or ethnical considerations. Of course, if its locale
is French you may have to modify its freedom of thought and speech, but with a very little
accommodation to national proprieties you can either transplant the setting of your play or
you can leave it where it was and make use of the convention that for stage purposes all Frenchmen
have a perfect command of our tongue and idiom. But to take a frankly English novel by an English
writer, adapt it, as Messrs. NYITRAY and MANDEL have done, for the American stage with an American
setting, and then bring it over here and produce it with only one or two actors in the whole
cast to illustrate the purity of the American accent, is perhaps to presume rather too much
on our generous lack of intelligence.

However we have got Mr. CHARLES HAWTREY back again and that is what really matters. As a philanderer
protesting innocence in the face of damnatory facts we know him well enough; but here we have
him innocent and ingenuous as an angel, yet hard put to it to convince anyone but himself of
his guilelessness. A millionaire (dollars) with a wife of economic disposition, who declines
to spend his money for him, he feels drawn to a course of knight-errantry and rides abroad
in search of damsels in pecuniary distress, with the avowed object of "spreading a little sunshine."

This quest, as you will easily understand, was not a very difficult one for a man prepared
to be imposed upon by just any adventuress, and in the neighbourhood of his various business-branches,
San Francisco, Washington, Boston, he soon found a ready channel for the employment of his
superfluous wealth. The natural affection, however, which his generosity inspired was not utilised
by him, and you must try to believe that, in spite of the most sinister appearances, he remained
a faithful husband.

With the methods by which he appeased his wife's suspicions I will not trouble you, partly
because I could not follow them myself, owing to the obscurity of the plot at its most critical
moment. Enough that all ends well with her firmly-expressed resolution that in the future she
will herself do all the necessary squandering.

Mr. CHARLES HAWTREY as James Smith was irresistible in most of the old ways and a few new ones.
The play would have gone poorly without him, in spite of the piquancy of Miss JOAN BARRY as
a flapper, the fourth and final recipient of his chaste bounty. Miss JESSIE BATEMAN as Mrs.
James Smith had no chance till just at the end with the turning of the worm. To the part of
Lucille Early--the Earlys, as a couple, were designed to contrast with the Smiths, the wife
in this case spending the money which the husband hadn't got--Miss ATHENE SEYLER, who was meant
for better things, gave a certain distinction, but perhaps "pressed" a little too much. Mr.
JAMES CAREW, who played Edward Early, was conspicuous as the sole male representative of the
American language in this American play. The fleeting visions that we had of Miss MONA HARRISON
as a refractory and venal cook excited general approval. The three protegées of James Smith
were only faintly distinguishable in their rather crude banality.

