VII. Can Persons who have good Dispositions to Religion, who go but once or twice in a Year
to the Play-House, say, upon their Experience, that they think the seeing of Plays is proper
to encrease the Love of God in Men, to fit them for holy Exercises, and to promote their spiritual
Welfare? or rather, Must they not own, that by the seeing of Plays they are more indisposed
for Religious Performances; that the Awe and Reverence which they had for God and Religion,
and the Horrour which they had at the Sins which they there see Men divert themselves with,
and make a Jest of, does thereby wear off; that their sensual Desires are more heightned and
enflamed; that they are more alienated from God, and more enamoured with the World?

VIII. Can Persons who are sensible of, and do heartily lament their want of the Love and Fear
of God, their too great a Love of the World, the frequent Distractions of their Mind in Prayer,
and the Unruliness of their Lusts and Passions, delight to frequent a Place where they are
surrounded with Temptations to the Love of the World; where what can excite to unlawful Desires
and Actions is promoted; and the Arts of an easie Defilement are studied? Can they think this
consistent with the Rules of keeping from all Appearance of Evil, of avoiding the Occasions
and Temptations to Sin, and that Watchfulness over their Thoughts, and that Diligence in making
their Calling and Election sure, as the Gospel requires? Do they in any wise herein adorn their
Profession, resemble the Christians who lived in the first Ages of Christianity; or those who
in any Age since have been celebrated for their Virtue?

IX. Can Persons in good earnest pray, as they are directed in the Lord's-Prayer, Not to be
led into Temptation, and yet frequent the Play-House, where they are assaulted with more and
greater Temptations than incounter them perhaps in any other Place?

X. Can such Persons as go to the Play-Houses on Week-days, and appear in our Churches on the
Lord's-day, and even at the Holy Sacrament, where they declare, that they present themselves,
their Souls and Bodies, as a reasonable, holy and lively Sacrifice to God, be suppos'd to attend
upon these Holy Ordinances with a suitable Frame of Mind; since the Language and Design of
Sermons, and of our Liturgy, and of Plays, are so different and even directly contrary to each
other?

XI. Can Ladies really dislike Lewd Discourse in Conversation, and yet like to see Lewdness
represented in all the Dresses that can vitiate the Imagination, and fasten upon the Memory?

XII. Can Parents, or any other Persons who have the Conduct of Youth, and have any serious
Concern for the Souls of their Children, or of those that are committed to their Care, satisfie
their Consciences, without Restraining them from going to a place of such Impiety and Infection;
where they would be in the way to unlearn the best Instructions of their Parents and Governours;
where Pride and Falshood, Malice and Revenge, Injustice and Immodesty, Contempt of Marriage,
and false Notions of Honour, are recommended; where Men are taught to call in question the
first Principles of their Religion, and are led to a contempt of Sacred things?

XIII. Can sincere and judicious Christians think that the Players exposing (as they pretend
to do) Formality, Humour, and Pedantry, is an Equivalent for their insulting sacred things,
and their promoting to so high a degree the Prophaneness and Debauchery of the Nation?

XIV. Can modest and prudent Christians think, that the Opinion of the General Councils, Primitive
Fathers, and so many wise and good Men in the several Ages of the Church, who have condemned
the going to Plays as unlawful, and as a renouncing the Baptismal Engagements, doth not deserve
great regard?

