On the 16th of June they discovered the River Patowomek (Potomac), seven miles broad at the
mouth, up which they sailed thirty miles before they encountered any inhabitants. Four savages
at length appeared and conducted them up a creek where were three or four thousand in ambush,
"so strangely painted, grimed, and disguised, shouting, yelling, and crying as so many spirits
from hell could not have showed more terrible." But the discharge of the firearms and the echo
in the forest so appeased their fury that they threw down their bows, exchanged hostages, and
kindly used the strangers. The Indians told him that Powhatan had commanded them to betray
them, and the serious charge is added that Powhatan, "so directed from the discontents at Jamestown
because our Captain did cause them to stay in their country against their wills." This reveals
the suspicion and thoroughly bad feeling existing among the colonists.

The expedition went up the river to a village called Patowomek, and thence rowed up a little
River Quiyough (Acquia Creek?) in search of a mountain of antimony, which they found. The savages
put this antimony up in little bags and sold it all over the country to paint their bodies
and faces, which made them look like Blackamoors dusted over with silver. Some bags of this
they carried away, and also collected a good amount of furs of otters, bears, martens, and
minks. Fish were abundant, "lying so thick with their heads above water, as for want of nets
(our barge driving among them) we attempted to catch them with a frying-pan; but we found it
a bad instrument to catch fish with; neither better fish, more plenty, nor more variety for
small fish, had any of us ever seen in any place, so swimming in the water, but they are not
to be caught with frying-pans."

In all his encounters and quarrels with the treacherous savages Smith lost not a man; it was
his habit when he encountered a body of them to demand their bows, arrows, swords, and furs,
and a child or two as hostages.

Having finished his discovery he returned. Passing the mouth of the Rappahannock, by some called
the Tappahannock, where in shoal water were many fish lurking in the weeds, Smith had his first
experience of the Stingray. It chanced that the Captain took one of these fish from his sword,
"not knowing her condition, being much the fashion of a Thornbeck, but a long tayle like a
riding rodde whereon the middest is a most poysonne sting of two or three inches long, bearded
like a saw on each side, which she struck into the wrist of his arme neare an inch and a half."
The arm and shoulder swelled so much, and the torment was so great, that "we all with much
sorrow concluded his funerale, and prepared his grave in an island by, as himself directed."
But it "pleased God by a precious oyle Dr. Russell applied to it that his tormenting paine
was so assuged that he ate of that fish to his supper."

Setting sail for Jamestown, and arriving at Kecoughtan, the sight of the furs and other plunder,
and of Captain Smith wounded, led the Indians to think that he had been at war with the Massawomeks;
which opinion Smith encouraged. They reached Jamestown July 21st, in fine spirits, to find
the colony in a mutinous condition, the last arrivals all sick, and the others on the point
of revenging themselves on the silly President, who had brought them all to misery by his riotous
consumption of the stores, and by forcing them to work on an unnecessary pleasure-house for
himself in the woods. They were somewhat appeased by the good news of the discovery, and in
the belief that their bay stretched into the South Sea; and submitted on condition that Ratclifte
should be deposed and Captain Smith take upon himself the government, "as by course it did
belong." He consented, but substituted Mr. Scrivener, his dear friend, in the presidency, distributed
the provisions, appointed honest men to assist Mr. Scrivener, and set out on the 24th, with
twelve men, to finish his discovery.

He passed by the Patowomek River and hasted to the River Bolus, which he had before visited.
In the bay they fell in with seven or eight canoes full of the renowned Massawomeks, with whom
they had a fight, but at length these savages became friendly and gave them bows, arrows, and
skins. They were at war with the Tockwoghes. Proceeding up the River Tockwogh, the latter Indians
received them with friendship, because they had the weapons which they supposed had been captured
in a fight with the Massawomeks. These Indians had hatchets, knives, pieces of iron and brass,
they reported came from the Susquesahanocks, a mighty people, the enemies of the Massawomeks,
living at the head of the bay. As Smith in his barge could not ascend to them, he sent an interpreter
to request a visit from them. In three or four days sixty of these giant-like people came down
with presents of venison, tobacco-pipes three feet in length, baskets, targets, and bows and
arrows. Some further notice is necessary of this first appearance of the Susquehannocks, who
became afterwards so well known, by reason of their great stature and their friendliness. Portraits
of these noble savages appeared in De Bry's voyages, which were used in Smith's map, and also
by Strachey. These beautiful copperplate engravings spread through Europe most exaggerated
ideas of the American savages.

"Our order," says Smith, "was daily to have prayers, with a psalm, at which solemnity the poor
savages wondered." When it was over the Susquesahanocks, in a fervent manner, held up their
hands to the sun, and then embracing the Captain, adored him in like manner. With a furious
manner and "a hellish voyce" they began an oration of their loves, covered him with their painted
bear-skins, hung a chain of white beads about his neck, and hailed his creation as their governor
and protector, promising aid and victuals if he would stay and help them fight the Massawomeks.
Much they told him of the Atquanachuks, who live on the Ocean Sea, the Massawomeks and other
people living on a great water beyond the mountain (which Smith understood to be some great
lake or the river of Canada), and that they received their hatchets and other commodities from
the French. They moumed greatly at Smith's departure. Of Powhatan they knew nothing but the name.

Strachey, who probably enlarges from Smith his account of the same people, whom he calls Sasquesahanougs,
says they were well-proportioned giants, but of an honest and simple disposition. Their language
well beseemed their proportions, "sounding from them as it were a great voice in a vault or
cave, as an ecco." The picture of one of these chiefs is given in De Bry, and described by
Strachey," the calf of whose leg was three-quarters of a yard about, and all the rest of his
limbs so answerable to the same proportions that he seemed the goodliest man they ever saw."

It would not entertain the reader to follow Smith in all the small adventures of the exploration,
during which he says he went about 3,000 miles (three thousand miles in three or four weeks
in a rowboat is nothing in Smith's memory), "with such watery diet in these great waters and
barbarous countries." Much hardship he endured, alternately skirmishing and feasting with the
Indians; many were the tribes he struck an alliance with, and many valuable details he added
to the geographical knowledge of the region. In all this exploration Smith showed himself skillful
as he was vigorous and adventurous.

He returned to James River September 7th. Many had died, some were sick, Ratcliffe, the late
President, was a prisoner for mutiny, Master Scrivener had diligently gathered the harvest,
but much of the provisions had been spoiled by rain. Thus the summer was consumed, and nothing
had been accomplished except Smith's discovery.

XI. SMITH'S PRESIDENCY AND PROWESS

On the 10th of September, by the election of the Council and the request of the company, Captain
Smith received the letters-patent, and became President. He stopped the building of Ratcliffe's
"palace," repaired the church and the storehouse, got ready the buildings for the supply expected
from England, reduced the fort to a "five square form," set and trained the watch and exercised
the company every Saturday on a plain called Smithfield, to the amazement of the on-looking
Indians.

Captain Newport arrived with a new supply of seventy persons. Among them were Captain Francis
West, brother to Lord Delaware, Captain Peter Winne, and Captain Peter Waldo, appointed on
the Council, eight Dutchmen and Poles, and Mistress Forest and Anne Burrows her maid, the first
white women in the colony.

Smith did not relish the arrival of Captain Newport nor the instructions under which he returned.
He came back commanded to discover the country of Monacan (above the Falls) and to perform
the ceremony of coronation on the Emperor Powhatan.

How Newport got this private commission when he had returned to England without a lump of gold,
nor any certainty of the South Sea, or one of the lost company sent out by Raleigh; and why
he brought a "fine peeced barge" which must be carried over unknown mountains before it reached
the South Sea, he could not understand. "As for the coronation of Powhatan and his presents
of basin and ewer, bed, bedding, clothes, and such costly novelties, they had been much better
well spared than so ill spent, for we had his favor and better for a plain piece of copper,
till this stately kind of soliciting made him so much overvalue himself that he respected us
as much as nothing at all." Smith evidently understood the situation much better than the promoters
in England; and we can quite excuse him in his rage over the foolishness and greed of most
of his companions. There was little nonsense about Smith in action, though he need not turn
his hand on any man of that age as a boaster.

To send out Poles and Dutchmen to make pitch, tar, and glass would have been well enough if
the colony had been firmly established and supplied with necessaries; and they might have sent
two hundred colonists instead of seventy, if they had ordered them to go to work collecting
provisions of the Indians for the winter, instead of attempting this strange discovery of the
South Sea, and wasting their time on a more strange coronation. "Now was there no way," asks
Smith, "to make us miserable," but by direction from England to perform this discovery and
coronation, "to take that time, spend what victuals we had, tire and starve our men, having
no means to carry victuals, ammunition, the hurt or the sick, but on their own backs?"

Smith seems to have protested against all this nonsense, but though he was governor, the Council
overruled him. Captain Newport decided to take one hundred and twenty men, fearing to go with
a less number and journey to Werowocomoco to crown Powhatan. In order to save time Smith offered
to take a message to Powhatan, and induce him to come to Jamestown and receive the honor and
the presents. Accompanied by only four men he crossed by land to Werowocomoco, passed the Pamaunkee
(York) River in a canoe, and sent for Powhatan, who was thirty miles off. Meantime Pocahontas,
who by his own account was a mere child, and her women entertained Smith in the following manner:

"In a fayre plaine they made a fire, before which, sitting upon a mat, suddenly amongst the
woods was heard such a hydeous noise and shreeking that the English betook themselves to their
armes, and seized upon two or three old men, by them supposing Powhatan with all his power
was come to surprise them. But presently Pocahontas came, willing him to kill her if any hurt
were intended, and the beholders, which were men, women and children, satisfied the Captaine
that there was no such matter. Then presently they were presented with this anticke: Thirty
young women came naked out of the woods, only covered behind and before with a few greene leaves,
their bodies all painted, some of one color, some of another, but all differing; their leader
had a fayre payre of Bucks hornes on her head, and an Otters skinne at her girdle, and another
at her arme, a quiver of arrows at her backe, a bow and arrows in her hand; the next had in
her hand a sword, another a club, another a pot-sticke: all horned alike; the rest every one
with their several devises.

"Having reaccommodated themselves, they solemnly invited him to their lodgings, where he was
no sooner within the house, but all these Nymphs more tormented him than ever, with crowding,
pressing, and hanging about him, most tediously crying, 'Love you not me? Love you not me?'
This salutation ended, the feast was set, consisting of all the Salvage dainties they could
devise: some attending, others singing and dancing about them: which mirth being ended, with
fire brands instead of torches they conducted him to his lodging."

The next day Powhatan arrived. Smith delivered up the Indian Namontuck, who had just returned
from a voyage to England--whither it was suspected the Emperor wished him to go to spy out
the weakness of the English tribe--and repeated Father Newport's request that Powhatan would
come to Jamestown to receive the presents and join in an expedition against his enemies, the
Monacans.

Powhatan's reply was worthy of his imperial highness, and has been copied ever since in the
speeches of the lords of the soil to the pale faces: "If your king has sent me present, I also
am a king, and this is my land: eight days I will stay to receive them. Your father is to come
to me, not I to him, nor yet to your fort, neither will I bite at such a bait; as for the Monacans,
I can revenge my own injuries."

This was the lofty potentate whom Smith, by his way of management, could have tickled out of
his senses with a glass bead, and who would infinitely have preferred a big shining copper
kettle to the misplaced honor intended to be thrust upon him, but the offer of which puffed
him up beyond the reach of negotiation. Smith returned with his message. Newport despatched
the presents round by water a hundred miles, and the Captains, with fifty soldiers, went over
land to Werowocomoco, where occurred the ridiculous ceremony of the coronation, which Smith
describes with much humor. "The next day," he says, "was appointed for the coronation. Then
the presents were brought him, his bason and ewer, bed and furniture set up, his scarlet cloke
and apparel, with much adoe put on him, being persuaded by Namontuck they would not hurt him.
But a foule trouble there was to make him kneel to receive his Crown; he not knowing the majesty
nor wearing of a Crown, nor bending of the knee, endured so many persuasions, examples and
instructions as tyred them all. At last by bearing hard on his shoulders, he a little stooped,
and three having the crown in their hands put it on his head, when by the warning of a pistoll
the boats were prepared with such a volley of shot that the king start up in a horrible feare,
till he saw all was well. Then remembering himself to congratulate their kindness he gave his
old shoes and his mantell to Captain Newport!"

The Monacan expedition the King discouraged, and refused to furnish for it either guides or
men. Besides his old shoes, the crowned monarch charitably gave Newport a little heap of corn,
only seven or eight bushels, and with this little result the absurd expedition returned to
Jamestown.

Shortly after Captain Newport with a chosen company of one hundred and twenty men (leaving
eighty with President Smith in the fort) and accompanied by Captain Waldo, Lieutenant Percy,
Captain Winne, Mr. West, and Mr. Scrivener, who was eager for adventure, set off for the discovery
of Monacan. The expedition, as Smith predicted, was fruitless: the Indians deceived them and
refused to trade, and the company got back to Jamestown, half of them sick, all grumbling,
and worn out with toil, famine, and discontent.

Smith at once set the whole colony to work, some to make glass, tar, pitch, and soap-ashes,
and others he conducted five miles down the river to learn to fell trees and make clapboards.
In this company were a couple of gallants, lately come over, Gabriel Beadle and John Russell,
proper gentlemen, but unused to hardships, whom Smith has immortalized by his novel cure of
their profanity. They took gayly to the rough life, and entered into the attack on the forest
so pleasantly that in a week they were masters of chopping: "making it their delight to hear
the trees thunder as they fell, but the axes so often blistered their tender fingers that many
times every third blow had a loud othe to drown the echo; for remedie of which sinne the President
devised how to have every man's othes numbered, and at night for every othe to have a Canne
of water powred downe his sleeve, with which every offender was so washed (himself and all),
that a man would scarce hear an othe in a weake." In the clearing of our country since, this
excellent plan has fallen into desuetude, for want of any pious Captain Smith in the logging camps.

These gentlemen, says Smith, did not spend their time in wood-logging like hirelings, but entered
into it with such spirit that thirty of them would accomplish more than a hundred of the sort
that had to be driven to work; yet, he sagaciously adds, "twenty good workmen had been better
than them all."

Returning to the fort, Smith, as usual, found the time consumed and no provisions got, and
Newport's ship lying idle at a great charge. With Percy he set out on an expedition for corn
to the Chickahominy, which the insolent Indians, knowing their want, would not supply. Perceiving
that it was Powhatan's policy to starve them (as if it was the business of the Indians to support
all the European vagabonds and adventurers who came to dispossess them of their country), Smith
gave out that he came not so much for corn as to revenge his imprisonment and the death of
his men murdered by the Indians, and proceeded to make war. This high-handed treatment made
the savages sue for peace, and furnish, although they complained of want themselves, owing
to a bad harvest, a hundred bushels of corn.

This supply contented the company, who feared nothing so much as starving, and yet, says Smith,
so envied him that they would rather hazard starving than have him get reputation by his vigorous
conduct. There is no contemporary account of that period except this which Smith indited. He
says that Newport and Ratcliffe conspired not only to depose him but to keep him out of the
fort; since being President they could not control his movements, but that their horns were
much too short to effect it.

At this time in the "old Taverne," as Smith calls the fort, everybody who had money or goods
made all he could by trade; soldiers, sailors, and savages were agreed to barter, and there
was more care to maintain their damnable and private trade than to provide the things necessary
for the colony. In a few weeks the whites had bartered away nearly all the axes, chisels, hoes,
and picks, and what powder, shot, and pikeheads they could steal, in exchange for furs, baskets,
young beasts and such like commodities. Though the supply of furs was scanty in Virginia, one
master confessed he had got in one voyage by this private trade what he sold in England for
thirty pounds. "These are the Saint-seeming Worthies of Virginia," indignantly exclaims the
President, "that have, notwithstanding all this, meate, drinke, and wages." But now they began
to get weary of the country, their trade being prevented. "The loss, scorn, and misery was
the poor officers, gentlemen and careless governors, who were bought and sold." The adventurers
were cheated, and all their actions overthrown by false information and unwise directions.

Master Scrivener was sent with the barges and pinnace to Werowocomoco, where by the aid of
Namontuck he procured a little corn, though the savages were more ready to fight than to trade.
At length Newport's ship was loaded with clapboards, pitch, tar, glass, frankincense (?) and
soapashes, and despatched to England. About two hundred men were left in the colony. With Newport,
Smith sent his famous letter to the Treasurer and Council in England. It is so good a specimen
of Smith's ability with the pen, reveals so well his sagacity and knowledge of what a colony
needed, and exposes so clearly the ill-management of the London promoters, and the condition
of the colony, that we copy it entire. It appears by this letter that Smith's "Map of Virginia,"
and his description of the country and its people, which were not published till 1612, were
sent by this opportunity. Captain Newport sailed for England late in the autumn of 1608. The
letter reads:

RIGHT HONORABLE, ETC.:

I received your letter wherein you write that our minds are so set upon faction, and idle conceits
in dividing the country without your consents, and that we feed you but with ifs and ands,
hopes and some few proofes; as if we would keepe the mystery of the businesse to ourselves:
and that we must expressly follow your instructions sent by Captain Newport: the charge of
whose voyage amounts to neare two thousand pounds, the which if we cannot defray by the ships
returne we are likely to remain as banished men. To these particulars I humbly intreat your
pardons if I offend you with my rude answer.

For our factions, unless you would have me run away and leave the country, I cannot prevent
them; because I do make many stay that would else fly away whither. For the Idle letter sent
to my Lord of Salisbury, by the President and his confederates, for dividing the country, &c.,
what it was I know not, for you saw no hand of mine to it; nor ever dream't I of any such matter.
That we feed you with hopes, &c. Though I be no scholar, I am past a schoolboy; and I desire
but to know what either you and these here doe know, but that I have learned to tell you by
the continuall hazard of my life. I have not concealed from you anything I know; but I feare
some cause you to believe much more than is true.

Expressly to follow your directions by Captain Newport, though they be performed, I was directly
against it; but according to our commission, I was content to be overouled by the major part
of the Councill, I feare to the hazard of us all; which now is generally confessed when it
is too late. Onely Captaine Winne and Captaine Walclo I have sworne of the Councill, and crowned
Powhattan according to your instructions.

