FAIRY TALES

By The Brothers Grimm

PREPARER'S NOTE

     The text is based on translations from
     the Grimms' Kinder und Hausmarchen by
     Edgar Taylor and Marian Edwardes.

CONTENTS:

     THE GOLDEN BIRD
     HANS IN LUCK
     JORINDA AND JORINDEL
     THE TRAVELLING MUSICIANS
     OLD SULTAN
     THE STRAW, THE COAL, AND THE BEAN
     BRIAR ROSE
     THE DOG AND THE SPARROW
     THE TWELVE DANCING PRINCESSES
     THE FISHERMAN AND HIS WIFE
     THE WILLOW-WREN AND THE BEAR
     THE FROG-PRINCE
     CAT AND MOUSE IN PARTNERSHIP
     THE GOOSE-GIRL
     THE ADVENTURES OF CHANTICLEER AND PARTLET
       1. HOW THEY WENT TO THE MOUNTAINS TO EAT NUTS
       2. HOW CHANTICLEER AND PARTLET WENT TO VIST MR KORBES
     RAPUNZEL
     FUNDEVOGEL
     THE VALIANT LITTLE TAILOR
     HANSEL AND GRETEL
     THE MOUSE, THE BIRD, AND THE SAUSAGE
     MOTHER HOLLE
     LITTLE RED-CAP [LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD]
     THE ROBBER BRIDEGROOM
     TOM THUMB
     RUMPELSTILTSKIN
     CLEVER GRETEL
     THE OLD MAN AND HIS GRANDSON
     THE LITTLE PEASANT
     FREDERICK AND CATHERINE
     SWEETHEART ROLAND
     SNOWDROP
     THE PINK
     CLEVER ELSIE
     THE MISER IN THE BUSH
     ASHPUTTEL
     THE WHITE SNAKE
     THE WOLF AND THE SEVEN LITTLE KIDS
     THE QUEEN BEE
     THE ELVES AND THE SHOEMAKER
     THE JUNIPER-TREE
     the juniper-tree.
     THE TURNIP
     CLEVER HANS
     THE THREE LANGUAGES
     THE FOX AND THE CAT
     THE FOUR CLEVER BROTHERS
     LILY AND THE LION
     THE FOX AND THE HORSE
     THE BLUE LIGHT
     THE RAVEN
     THE GOLDEN GOOSE
     THE WATER OF LIFE
     THE TWELVE HUNTSMEN
     THE KING OF THE GOLDEN MOUNTAIN
     DOCTOR KNOWALL
     THE SEVEN RAVENS
     THE WEDDING OF MRS FOX
     FIRST STORY
     SECOND STORY
     THE SALAD
     THE STORY OF THE YOUTH WHO WENT FORTH TO LEARN WHAT FEAR WAS
     KING GRISLY-BEARD
     IRON HANS
     CAT-SKIN
     SNOW-WHITE AND ROSE-RED

THE BROTHERS GRIMM FAIRY TALES

THE GOLDEN BIRD

A certain king had a beautiful garden, and in the garden stood a tree which bore golden apples.
These apples were always counted, and about the time when they began to grow ripe it was found
that every night one of them was gone. The king became very angry at this, and ordered the
gardener to keep watch all night under the tree. The gardener set his eldest son to watch;
but about twelve o'clock he fell asleep, and in the morning another of the apples was missing.
Then the second son was ordered to watch; and at midnight he too fell asleep, and in the morning
another apple was gone. Then the third son offered to keep watch; but the gardener at first
would not let him, for fear some harm should come to him: however, at last he consented, and
the young man laid himself under the tree to watch. As the clock struck twelve he heard a rustling
noise in the air, and a bird came flying that was of pure gold; and as it was snapping at one
of the apples with its beak, the gardener's son jumped up and shot an arrow at it. But the
arrow did the bird no harm; only it dropped a golden feather from its tail, and then flew away.
The golden feather was brought to the king in the morning, and all the council was called together.
Everyone agreed that it was worth more than all the wealth of the kingdom: but the king said,
'One feather is of no use to me, I must have the whole bird.'

Then the gardener's eldest son set out and thought to find the golden bird very easily; and
when he had gone but a little way, he came to a wood, and by the side of the wood he saw a
fox sitting; so he took his bow and made ready to shoot at it. Then the fox said, 'Do not shoot
me, for I will give you good counsel; I know what your business is, and that you want to find
the golden bird. You will reach a village in the evening; and when you get there, you will
see two inns opposite to each other, one of which is very pleasant and beautiful to look at:
go not in there, but rest for the night in the other, though it may appear to you to be very
poor and mean.' But the son thought to himself, 'What can such a beast as this know about the
matter?' So he shot his arrow at the fox; but he missed it, and it set up its tail above its
back and ran into the wood. Then he went his way, and in the evening came to the village where
the two inns were; and in one of these were people singing, and dancing, and feasting; but
the other looked very dirty, and poor. 'I should be very silly,' said he, 'if I went to that
shabby house, and left this charming place'; so he went into the smart house, and ate and drank
at his ease, and forgot the bird, and his country too.

Time passed on; and as the eldest son did not come back, and no tidings were heard of him,
the second son set out, and the same thing happened to him. He met the fox, who gave him the
good advice: but when he came to the two inns, his eldest brother was standing at the window
where the merrymaking was, and called to him to come in; and he could not withstand the temptation,
but went in, and forgot the golden bird and his country in the same manner.

Time passed on again, and the youngest son too wished to set out into the wide world to seek
for the golden bird; but his father would not listen to it for a long while, for he was very
fond of his son, and was afraid that some ill luck might happen to him also, and prevent his
coming back. However, at last it was agreed he should go, for he would not rest at home; and
as he came to the wood, he met the fox, and heard the same good counsel. But he was thankful
to the fox, and did not attempt his life as his brothers had done; so the fox said, 'Sit upon
my tail, and you will travel faster.' So he sat down, and the fox began to run, and away they
went over stock and stone so quick that their hair whistled in the wind.

When they came to the village, the son followed the fox's counsel, and without looking about
him went to the shabby inn and rested there all night at his ease. In the morning came the
fox again and met him as he was beginning his journey, and said, 'Go straight forward, till
you come to a castle, before which lie a whole troop of soldiers fast asleep and snoring: take
no notice of them, but go into the castle and pass on and on till you come to a room, where
the golden bird sits in a wooden cage; close by it stands a beautiful golden cage; but do not
try to take the bird out of the shabby cage and put it into the handsome one, otherwise you
will repent it.' Then the fox stretched out his tail again, and the young man sat himself down,
and away they went over stock and stone till their hair whistled in the wind.

Before the castle gate all was as the fox had said: so the son went in and found the chamber
where the golden bird hung in a wooden cage, and below stood the golden cage, and the three
golden apples that had been lost were lying close by it. Then thought he to himself, 'It will
be a very droll thing to bring away such a fine bird in this shabby cage'; so he opened the
door and took hold of it and put it into the golden cage. But the bird set up such a loud scream
that all the soldiers awoke, and they took him prisoner and carried him before the king. The
next morning the court sat to judge him; and when all was heard, it sentenced him to die, unless
he should bring the king the golden horse which could run as swiftly as the wind; and if he
did this, he was to have the golden bird given him for his own.

So he set out once more on his journey, sighing, and in great despair, when on a sudden his
friend the fox met him, and said, 'You see now what has happened on account of your not listening
to my counsel. I will still, however, tell you how to find the golden horse, if you will do
as I bid you. You must go straight on till you come to the castle where the horse stands in
his stall: by his side will lie the groom fast asleep and snoring: take away the horse quietly,
but be sure to put the old leathern saddle upon him, and not the golden one that is close by
it.' Then the son sat down on the fox's tail, and away they went over stock and stone till
their hair whistled in the wind.

All went right, and the groom lay snoring with his hand upon the golden saddle. But when the
son looked at the horse, he thought it a great pity to put the leathern saddle upon it. 'I
will give him the good one,' said he; 'I am sure he deserves it.' As he took up the golden
saddle the groom awoke and cried out so loud, that all the guards ran in and took him prisoner,
and in the morning he was again brought before the court to be judged, and was sentenced to
die. But it was agreed, that, if he could bring thither the beautiful princess, he should live,
and have the bird and the horse given him for his own.

Then he went his way very sorrowful; but the old fox came and said, 'Why did not you listen
to me? If you had, you would have carried away both the bird and the horse; yet will I once
more give you counsel. Go straight on, and in the evening you will arrive at a castle. At twelve
o'clock at night the princess goes to the bathing-house: go up to her and give her a kiss,
and she will let you lead her away; but take care you do not suffer her to go and take leave
of her father and mother.' Then the fox stretched out his tail, and so away they went over
stock and stone till their hair whistled again.

As they came to the castle, all was as the fox had said, and at twelve o'clock the young man
met the princess going to the bath and gave her the kiss, and she agreed to run away with him,
but begged with many tears that he would let her take leave of her father. At first he refused,
but she wept still more and more, and fell at his feet, till at last he consented; but the
moment she came to her father's house the guards awoke and he was taken prisoner again.

Then he was brought before the king, and the king said, 'You shall never have my daughter unless
in eight days you dig away the hill that stops the view from my window.' Now this hill was
so big that the whole world could not take it away: and when he had worked for seven days,
and had done very little, the fox came and said. 'Lie down and go to sleep; I will work for
you.' And in the morning he awoke and the hill was gone; so he went merrily to the king, and
told him that now that it was removed he must give him the princess.

Then the king was obliged to keep his word, and away went the young man and the princess; and
the fox came and said to him, 'We will have all three, the princess, the horse, and the bird.'
'Ah!' said the young man, 'that would be a great thing, but how can you contrive it?'

'If you will only listen,' said the fox, 'it can be done. When you come to the king, and he
asks for the beautiful princess, you must say, "Here she is!" Then he will be very joyful;
and you will mount the golden horse that they are to give you, and put out your hand to take
leave of them; but shake hands with the princess last. Then lift her quickly on to the horse
behind you; clap your spurs to his side, and gallop away as fast as you can.'

All went right: then the fox said, 'When you come to the castle where the bird is, I will stay
with the princess at the door, and you will ride in and speak to the king; and when he sees
that it is the right horse, he will bring out the bird; but you must sit still, and say that
you want to look at it, to see whether it is the true golden bird; and when you get it into
your hand, ride away.'

This, too, happened as the fox said; they carried off the bird, the princess mounted again,
and they rode on to a great wood. Then the fox came, and said, 'Pray kill me, and cut off my
head and my feet.' But the young man refused to do it: so the fox said, 'I will at any rate
give you good counsel: beware of two things; ransom no one from the gallows, and sit down by
the side of no river.' Then away he went. 'Well,' thought the young man, 'it is no hard matter
to keep that advice.'

He rode on with the princess, till at last he came to the village where he had left his two
brothers. And there he heard a great noise and uproar; and when he asked what was the matter,
the people said, 'Two men are going to be hanged.' As he came nearer, he saw that the two men
were his brothers, who had turned robbers; so he said, 'Cannot they in any way be saved?' But
the people said 'No,' unless he would bestow all his money upon the rascals and buy their liberty.
Then he did not stay to think about the matter, but paid what was asked, and his brothers were
given up, and went on with him towards their home.

And as they came to the wood where the fox first met them, it was so cool and pleasant that
the two brothers said, 'Let us sit down by the side of the river, and rest a while, to eat
and drink.' So he said, 'Yes,' and forgot the fox's counsel, and sat down on the side of the
river; and while he suspected nothing, they came behind, and threw him down the bank, and took
the princess, the horse, and the bird, and went home to the king their master, and said. 'All
this have we won by our labour.' Then there was great rejoicing made; but the horse would not
eat, the bird would not sing, and the princess wept.

The youngest son fell to the bottom of the river's bed: luckily it was nearly dry, but his
bones were almost broken, and the bank was so steep that he could find no way to get out. Then
the old fox came once more, and scolded him for not following his advice; otherwise no evil
would have befallen him: 'Yet,' said he, 'I cannot leave you here, so lay hold of my tail and
hold fast.' Then he pulled him out of the river, and said to him, as he got upon the bank,
'Your brothers have set watch to kill you, if they find you in the kingdom.' So he dressed
himself as a poor man, and came secretly to the king's court, and was scarcely within the doors
when the horse began to eat, and the bird to sing, and princess left off weeping. Then he went
to the king, and told him all his brothers' roguery; and they were seized and punished, and
he had the princess given to him again; and after the king's death he was heir to his kingdom.

A long while after, he went to walk one day in the wood, and the old fox met him, and besought
him with tears in his eyes to kill him, and cut off his head and feet. And at last he did so,
and in a moment the fox was changed into a man, and turned out to be the brother of the princess,
who had been lost a great many many years.

HANS IN LUCK

Some men are born to good luck: all they do or try to do comes right--all that falls to them
is so much gain--all their geese are swans--all their cards are trumps--toss them which way
you will, they will always, like poor puss, alight upon their legs, and only move on so much
the faster. The world may very likely not always think of them as they think of themselves,
but what care they for the world? what can it know about the matter?

One of these lucky beings was neighbour Hans. Seven long years he had worked hard for his master.
As he went lazily on, dragging one foot after another, a man came in sight, trotting gaily
along on a capital horse. 'Ah!' said Hans aloud, 'what a fine thing it is to ride on horseback!
'I will give you my horse, and you shall give me the silver; which will save you a great deal
of trouble in carrying such a heavy load about with you.' 'With all my heart,' said Hans: 'but
as you are so kind to me, I must tell you one thing--you will have a weary task to draw that
silver about with you.' However, the horseman got off, took the silver, helped Hans up, gave
him the bridle into one hand and the whip into the other, and said, 'When you want to go very
fast, smack your lips loudly together, and cry "Jip!"'

Hans was delighted as he sat on the horse, drew himself up, squared his elbows, turned out
his toes, cracked his whip, and rode merrily off, one minute whistling a merry tune, and another
singing,

 'No care and no sorrow,
  A fig for the morrow! One can walk along at one's leisure behind that
cow--keep good company, and have milk, butter, and cheese, every day,
into the bargain. What would I give to have such a prize!' 'Well,' said
the shepherd, 'if you are so fond of her, I will change my cow for your
horse; I like to do good to my neighbours, even though I lose by it
myself.' 'Done!' said Hans, merrily. 'What a noble heart that good man
has!' thought he. Then the shepherd jumped upon the horse, wished Hans
and the cow good morning, and away he rode. Who would have thought that this cow, which was to bring
him milk and butter and cheese, was all that time utterly dry? Hans had
not thought of looking to that. 'What is the matter with you, my man?' said the
butcher, as he helped him up. Hans told him what had happened, how he
was dry, and wanted to milk his cow, but found the cow was dry too. Then
the butcher gave him a flask of ale, saying, 'There, drink and refresh
yourself; your cow will give you no milk: don't you see she is an old
beast, good for nothing but the slaughter-house?' 'Alas, alas!' said
Hans, 'who would have thought it? What a shame to take my horse, and
give me only a dry cow! If I kill her, what will she be good for? I hate
cow-beef; it is not tender enough for me. If it were a pig now--like
that fat gentleman you are driving along at his ease--one could do
something with it; it would at any rate make sausages.' 'Well,' said
the butcher, 'I don't like to say no, when one is asked to do a kind,
neighbourly thing. To please you I will change, and give you my fine fat
pig for the cow.' 'Heaven reward you for your kindness and self-denial!'
said Hans, as he gave the butcher the cow; and taking the pig off the
wheel-barrow, drove it away, holding it by the string that was tied to
its leg.

So on he jogged, and all seemed now to go right with him: he had met with some misfortunes,
to be sure; but he was now well repaid for all. How could it be otherwise with such a travelling
companion as he had at last got?

The next man he met was a countryman carrying a fine white goose. The countryman stopped to
ask what was o'clock; this led to further chat; and Hans told him all his luck, how he had
so many good bargains, and how all the world went gay and smiling with him. The countryman
than began to tell his tale, and said he was going to take the goose to a christening. 'Feel,'
said he, 'how heavy it is, and yet it is only eight weeks old. If you have, and they catch
you, it will be a bad job for you. The least they will do will be to throw you into the horse-pond.
I know nothing of where the pig was either bred or born; but he may have been the squire's
for aught I can tell: you know this country better than I do, take my pig and give me the goose.'
'I ought to have something into the bargain,' said the countryman; 'give a fat goose for a
pig, indeed! 'Tis not everyone would do so much for you as that. 'After all,' thought he, 'that
chap is pretty well taken in. I don't care whose pig it is, but wherever it came from it has
been a very good friend to me. I have much the best of the bargain. First there will be a capital
roast; then the fat will find me in goose-grease for six months; and then there are all the
beautiful white feathers. I will put them into my pillow, and then I am sure I shall sleep
soundly without rocking. How happy my mother will be! Talk of a pig, indeed! People are so
kind; they seem really to think I do them a favour in letting them make me rich, and giving
me good bargains.'

Meantime he began to be tired, and hungry too, for he had given away his last penny in his
joy at getting the cow.

At last he could go no farther, for the stone tired him sadly: and he dragged himself to the
side of a river, that he might take a drink of water, and rest a while.

JORINDA AND JORINDEL

There was once an old castle, that stood in the middle of a deep gloomy wood, and in the castle
lived an old fairy. Now this fairy could take any shape she pleased. All the day long she flew
about in the form of an owl, or crept about the country like a cat; but at night she always
became an old woman again. When any young man came within a hundred paces of her castle, he
became quite fixed, and could not move a step till she came and set him free; which she would
not do till he had given her his word never to come there again: but when any pretty maiden
came within that space she was changed into a bird, and the fairy put her into a cage, and
hung her up in a chamber in the castle. There were seven hundred of these cages hanging in
the castle, and all with beautiful birds in them.

Now there was once a maiden whose name was Jorinda. She was prettier than all the pretty girls
that ever were seen before, and a shepherd lad, whose name was Jorindel, was very fond of her,
and they were soon to be married. One day they went to walk in the wood, that they might be
alone; and Jorindel said, 'We must take care that we don't go too near to the fairy's castle.'
It was a beautiful evening; the last rays of the setting sun shone bright through the long
stems of the trees upon the green underwood beneath, and the turtle-doves sang from the tall
birches.

Jorinda sat down to gaze upon the sun; Jorindel sat by her side; and both felt sad, they knew
not why; but it seemed as if they were to be parted from one another for ever. They had wandered
a long way; and when they looked to see which way they should go home, they found themselves
at a loss to know what path to take.

The sun was setting fast, and already half of its circle had sunk behind the hill: Jorindel
on a sudden looked behind him, and saw through the bushes that they had, without knowing it,
sat down close under the old walls of the castle. Then he shrank for fear, turned pale, and
trembled. Jorinda was just singing,

 'The ring-dove sang from the willow spray,
  Well-a-day! Well-a-day!
  He mourn'd for the fate of his darling mate,
  Well-a-day!'

when her song stopped suddenly. Jorindel turned to see the reason, and beheld his Jorinda changed
into a nightingale, so that her song ended with a mournful jug, jug. An owl with fiery eyes
flew three times round them, and three times screamed:

 'Tu whu! Tu whu! Tu whu!'

Jorindel could not move; he stood fixed as a stone, and could neither weep, nor speak, nor
stir hand or foot. And now the sun went quite down; the gloomy night came; the owl flew into
a bush; and a moment after the old fairy came forth pale and meagre, with staring eyes, and
a nose and chin that almost met one another.

She mumbled something to herself, seized the nightingale, and went away with it in her hand.
Poor Jorindel saw the nightingale was gone--but what could he do? He could not speak, he could
not move from the spot where he stood. At last the fairy came back and sang with a hoarse voice:

 'Till the prisoner is fast,
  And her doom is cast,
  There stay! Oh, stay!
  When the charm is around her,
  And the spell has bound her,
  Hie away! away!'

On a sudden Jorindel found himself free. Then he fell on his knees before the fairy, and prayed
her to give him back his dear Jorinda: but she laughed at him, and said he should never see
her again; then she went her way.

He prayed, he wept, he sorrowed, but all in vain. 'Alas!' he said, 'what will become of me?'
He could not go back to his own home, so he went to a strange village, and employed himself
in keeping sheep. Many a time did he walk round and round as near to the hated castle as he
dared go, but all in vain; he heard or saw nothing of Jorinda.

At last he dreamt one night that he found a beautiful purple flower, and that in the middle
of it lay a costly pearl; and he dreamt that he plucked the flower, and went with it in his
hand into the castle, and that everything he touched with it was disenchanted, and that there
he found his Jorinda again.

In the morning when he awoke, he began to search over hill and dale for this pretty flower;
and eight long days he sought for it in vain: but on the ninth day, early in the morning, he
found the beautiful purple flower; and in the middle of it was a large dewdrop, as big as a
costly pearl. Then he plucked the flower, and set out and travelled day and night, till he
came again to the castle.

He walked nearer than a hundred paces to it, and yet he did not become fixed as before, but
found that he could go quite close up to the door. Jorindel was very glad indeed to see this.
Then he touched the door with the flower, and it sprang open; so that he went in through the
court, and listened when he heard so many birds singing. At last he came to the chamber where
the fairy sat, with the seven hundred birds singing in the seven hundred cages. When she saw
Jorindel she was very angry, and screamed with rage; but she could not come within two yards
of him, for the flower he held in his hand was his safeguard. He looked around at the birds,
but alas! there were many, many nightingales, and how then should he find out which was his
Jorinda? While he was thinking what to do, he saw the fairy had taken down one of the cages,
and was making the best of her way off through the door. He ran or flew after her, touched
the cage with the flower, and Jorinda stood before him, and threw her arms round his neck looking
as beautiful as ever, as beautiful as when they walked together in the wood.

Then he touched all the other birds with the flower, so that they all took their old forms
again; and he took Jorinda home, where they were married, and lived happily together many years:
and so did a good many other lads, whose maidens had been forced to sing in the old fairy's
cages by themselves, much longer than they liked.

THE TRAVELLING MUSICIANS

An honest farmer had once an ass that had been a faithful servant to him a great many years,
but was now growing old and every day more and more unfit for work. His master therefore was
tired of keeping him and began to think of putting an end to him; but the ass, who saw that
some mischief was in the wind, took himself slyly off, and began his journey towards the great
city, 'For there,' thought he, 'I may turn musician.'

After he had travelled a little way, he spied a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if
he were tired. 'What makes you pant so, my friend?' said the ass. 'Alas!' said the dog, 'my
master was going to knock me on the head, because I am old and weak, and can no longer make
myself useful to him in hunting; so I ran away; but what can I do to earn my livelihood?' 'Hark
ye!' said the ass, 'I am going to the great city to turn musician: suppose you go with me,
and try what you can do in the same way?' The dog said he was willing, and they jogged on together.

They had not gone far before they saw a cat sitting in the middle of the road and making a
most rueful face. 'Pray, my good lady,' said the ass, 'what's the matter with you? You look
quite out of spirits!' 'Ah, me!' said the cat, 'how can one be in good spirits when one's life
is in danger? Because I am beginning to grow old, and had rather lie at my ease by the fire
than run about the house after the mice, my mistress laid hold of me, and was going to drown
me; and though I have been lucky enough to get away from her, I do not know what I am to live
upon.' 'Oh,' said the ass, 'by all means go with us to the great city; you are a good night
singer, and may make your fortune as a musician.' The cat was pleased with the thought, and
joined the party.

Soon afterwards, as they were passing by a farmyard, they saw a cock perched upon a gate, and
screaming out with all his might and main. 'Bravo!' said the ass; 'upon my word, you make a
famous noise; pray what is all this about?' 'Why,' said the cock, 'I was just now saying that
we should have fine weather for our washing-day, and yet my mistress and the cook don't thank
me for my pains, but threaten to cut off my head tomorrow, and make broth of me for the guests
that are coming on Sunday!' 'Heaven forbid!' said the ass, 'come with us Master Chanticleer;
it will be better, at any rate, than staying here to have your head cut off! Besides, who knows?
If we care to sing in tune, we may get up some kind of a concert; so come along with us.' 'With
all my heart,' said the cock: so they all four went on jollily together.

They could not, however, reach the great city the first day; so when night came on, they went
into a wood to sleep. The ass and the dog laid themselves down under a great tree, and the
cat climbed up into the branches; while the cock, thinking that the higher he sat the safer
he should be, flew up to the very top of the tree, and then, according to his custom, before
he went to sleep, looked out on all sides of him to see that everything was well. In doing
this, he saw afar off something bright and shining and calling to his companions said, 'There
must be a house no great way off, for I see a light.' 'If that be the case,' said the ass,
'we had better change our quarters, for our lodging is not the best in the world!' 'Besides,'
added the dog, 'I should not be the worse for a bone or two, or a bit of meat.' So they walked
off together towards the spot where Chanticleer had seen the light, and as they drew near it
became larger and brighter, till they at last came close to a house in which a gang of robbers
lived.

The ass, being the tallest of the company, marched up to the window and peeped in. 'Well, Donkey,'
said Chanticleer, 'what do you see?' 'What do I see?' replied the ass. 'Why, I see a table
spread with all kinds of good things, and robbers sitting round it making merry.' 'That would
be a noble lodging for us,' said the cock. 'Yes,' said the ass, 'if we could only get in';
so they consulted together how they should contrive to get the robbers out; and at last they
hit upon a plan. The ass placed himself upright on his hind legs, with his forefeet resting
against the window; the dog got upon his back; the cat scrambled up to the dog's shoulders,
and the cock flew up and sat upon the cat's head. The robbers, who had been not a little frightened
by the opening concert, had now no doubt that some frightful hobgoblin had broken in upon them,
and scampered away as fast as they could.

The coast once clear, our travellers soon sat down and dispatched what the robbers had left,
with as much eagerness as if they had not expected to eat again for a month. As soon as they
had satisfied themselves, they put out the lights, and each once more sought out a resting-place
to his own liking. The donkey laid himself down upon a heap of straw in the yard, the dog stretched
himself upon a mat behind the door, the cat rolled herself up on the hearth before the warm
ashes, and the cock perched upon a beam on the top of the house; and, as they were all rather
tired with their journey, they soon fell asleep.

But about midnight, when the robbers saw from afar that the lights were out and that all seemed
quiet, they began to think that they had been in too great a hurry to run away; and one of
them, who was bolder than the rest, went to see what was going on. Finding everything still,
he marched into the kitchen, and groped about till he found a match in order to light a candle;
and then, espying the glittering fiery eyes of the cat, he mistook them for live coals, and
held the match to them to light it. But the cat, not understanding this joke, sprang at his
face, and spat, and scratched at him. This frightened him dreadfully, and away he ran to the
back door; but there the dog jumped up and bit him in the leg; and as he was crossing over
the yard the ass kicked him; and the cock, who had been awakened by the noise, crowed with
all his might. At this the robber ran back as fast as he could to his comrades, and told the
captain how a horrid witch had got into the house, and had spat at him and scratched his face
with her long bony fingers; how a man with a knife in his hand had hidden himself behind the
door, and stabbed him in the leg; how a black monster stood in the yard and struck him with
a club, and how the devil had sat upon the top of the house and cried out, 'Throw the rascal
up here!' After this the robbers never dared to go back to the house; but the musicians were
so pleased with their quarters that they took up their abode there; and there they are, I dare
say, at this very day.

OLD SULTAN

A shepherd had a faithful dog, called Sultan, who was grown very old, and had lost all his
teeth. And one day when the shepherd and his wife were standing together before the house the
shepherd said, 'I will shoot old Sultan tomorrow morning, for he is of no use now.' But his
wife said, 'Pray let the poor faithful creature live; he has served us well a great many years,
and we ought to give him a livelihood for the rest of his days.' 'But what can we do with him?'
said the shepherd, 'he has not a tooth in his head, and the thieves don't care for him at all;
to be sure he has served us, but then he did it to earn his livelihood; tomorrow shall be his
last day, depend upon it.'

Poor Sultan, who was lying close by them, heard all that the shepherd and his wife said to
one another, and was very much frightened to think tomorrow would be his last day; so in the
evening he went to his good friend the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows,
and how his master meant to kill him in the morning. 'Make yourself easy,' said the wolf, 'I
will give you some good advice. Your master, you know, goes out every morning very early with
his wife into the field; and they take their little child with them, and lay it down behind
the hedge in the shade while they are at work. Now do you lie down close by the child, and
pretend to be watching it, and I will come out of the wood and run away with it; you must run
after me as fast as you can, and I will let it drop; then you may carry it back, and they will
think you have saved their child, and will be so thankful to you that they will take care of
you as long as you live.' The dog liked this plan very well; and accordingly so it was managed.
The wolf ran with the child a little way; the shepherd and his wife screamed out; but Sultan
soon overtook him, and carried the poor little thing back to his master and mistress. Then
the shepherd patted him on the head, and said, 'Old Sultan has saved our child from the wolf,
and therefore he shall live and be well taken care of, and have plenty to eat. Wife, go home,
and give him a good dinner, and let him have my old cushion to sleep on as long as he lives.'
So from this time forward Sultan had all that he could wish for.

Soon afterwards the wolf came and wished him joy, and said, 'Now, my good fellow, you must
tell no tales, but turn your head the other way when I want to taste one of the old shepherd's
fine fat sheep.' 'No,' said the Sultan; 'I will be true to my master.' However, the wolf thought
he was in joke, and came one night to get a dainty morsel. But Sultan had told his master what
the wolf meant to do; so he laid wait for him behind the barn door, and when the wolf was busy
looking out for a good fat sheep, he had a stout cudgel laid about his back, that combed his
locks for him finely.

Then the wolf was very angry, and called Sultan 'an old rogue,' and swore he would have his
revenge. So the next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge Sultan to come into the wood
to fight the matter. Now Sultan had nobody he could ask to be his second but the shepherd's
old three-legged cat; so he took her with him, and as the poor thing limped along with some
trouble, she stuck up her tail straight in the air.

The wolf and the wild boar were first on the ground; and when they espied their enemies coming,
and saw the cat's long tail standing straight in the air, they thought she was carrying a sword
for Sultan to fight with; and every time she limped, they thought she was picking up a stone
to throw at them; so they said they should not like this way of fighting, and the boar lay
down behind a bush, and the wolf jumped up into a tree. Sultan and the cat soon came up, and
looked about and wondered that no one was there. The boar, however, had not quite hidden himself,
for his ears stuck out of the bush; and when he shook one of them a little, the cat, seeing
something move, and thinking it was a mouse, sprang upon it, and bit and scratched it, so that
the boar jumped up and grunted, and ran away, roaring out, 'Look up in the tree, there sits
the one who is to blame.' So they looked up, and espied the wolf sitting amongst the branches;
and they called him a cowardly rascal, and would not suffer him to come down till he was heartily
ashamed of himself, and had promised to be good friends again with old Sultan.

BRIAR ROSE

A king and queen once upon a time reigned in a country a great way off, where there were in
those days fairies. Now this king and queen had plenty of money, and plenty of fine clothes
to wear, and plenty of good things to eat and drink, and a coach to ride out in every day:
but though they had been married many years they had no children, and this grieved them very
much indeed. But one day as the queen was walking by the side of the river, at the bottom of
the garden, she saw a poor little fish, that had thrown itself out of the water, and lay gasping
and nearly dead on the bank. So he asked his kinsmen, and nobles, and friends, and neighbours.
But the queen said, 'I will have the fairies also, that they might be kind and good to our
little daughter.' Now there were thirteen fairies in the kingdom; but as the king and queen
had only twelve golden dishes for them to eat out of, they were forced to leave one of the
fairies without asking her. So twelve fairies came, each with a high red cap on her head, and
red shoes with high heels on her feet, and a long white wand in her hand: and after the feast
was over they gathered round in a ring and gave all their best gifts to the little princess.
One gave her goodness, another beauty, another riches, and so on till she had all that was
good in the world.

Just as eleven of them had done blessing her, a great noise was heard in the courtyard, and
word was brought that the thirteenth fairy was come, with a black cap on her head, and black
shoes on her feet, and a broomstick in her hand: and presently up she came into the dining-hall.

Now that very day the hundred years were ended; and as the prince came to the thicket he saw
nothing but beautiful flowering shrubs, through which he went with ease, and they shut in after
him as thick as ever.

And then the prince and Briar Rose were married, and the wedding feast was given; and they
lived happily together all their lives long.

THE DOG AND THE SPARROW

A shepherd's dog had a master who took no care of him, but often let him suffer the greatest
hunger. At last he could bear it no longer; so he took to his heels, and off he ran in a very
sad and sorrowful mood. On the road he met a sparrow that said to him, 'Why are you so sad,
my friend?' 'Because,' said the dog, 'I am very very hungry, and have nothing to eat.' 'If
that be all,' answered the sparrow, 'come with me into the next town, and I will soon find
you plenty of food.' So on they went together into the town: and as they passed by a butcher's
shop, the sparrow said to the dog, 'Stand there a little while till I peck you down a piece
of meat.' So the sparrow perched upon the shelf: and having first looked carefully about her
to see if anyone was watching her, she pecked and scratched at a steak that lay upon the edge
of the shelf, till at last down it fell. Then the dog snapped it up, and scrambled away with
it into a corner, where he soon ate it all up. 'Well,' said the sparrow, 'you shall have some
more if you will; so come with me to the next shop, and I will peck you down another steak.'
When the dog had eaten this too, the sparrow said to him, 'Well, my good friend, have you had
enough now?' 'I have had plenty of meat,' answered he, 'but I should like to have a piece of
bread to eat after it.' 'Come with me then,' said the sparrow, 'and you shall soon have that
too.' So she took him to a baker's shop, and pecked at two rolls that lay in the window, till
they fell down: and as the dog still wished for more, she took him to another shop and pecked
down some more for him. When that was eaten, the sparrow asked him whether he had had enough
now. 'Yes,' said he; 'and now let us take a walk a little way out of the town.' So they both
went out upon the high road; but as the weather was warm, they had not gone far before the
dog said, 'I am very much tired--I should like to take a nap.' 'Very well,' answered the sparrow,
'do so, and in the meantime I will perch upon that bush.' So the dog stretched himself out
on the road, and fell fast asleep. Whilst he slept, there came by a carter with a cart drawn
by three horses, and loaded with two casks of wine. The sparrow, seeing that the carter did
not turn out of the way, but would go on in the track in which the dog lay, so as to drive
over him, called out, 'Stop! stop! Mr Carter, or it shall be the worse for you.' But the carter,
grumbling to himself, 'You make it the worse for me, indeed! what can you do?' cracked his
whip, and drove his cart over the poor dog, so that the wheels crushed him to death. 'There,'
cried the sparrow, 'thou cruel villain, thou hast killed my friend the dog. Now mind what I
say. This deed of thine shall cost thee all thou art worth.' 'Do your worst, and welcome,'
said the brute, 'what harm can you do me?' and passed on. But the sparrow crept under the tilt
of the cart, and pecked at the bung of one of the casks till she loosened it; and than all
the wine ran out, without the carter seeing it. At last he looked round, and saw that the cart
was dripping, and the cask quite empty. 'What an unlucky wretch I am!' cried he. 'Not wretch
enough yet!' said the sparrow, as she alighted upon the head of one of the horses, and pecked
at him till he reared up and kicked. When the carter saw this, he drew out his hatchet and
aimed a blow at the sparrow, meaning to kill her; but she flew away, and the blow fell upon
the poor horse's head with such force, that he fell down dead. 'Unlucky wretch that I am!'
cried he. 'Not wretch enough yet!' said the sparrow. And as the carter went on with the other
two horses, she again crept under the tilt of the cart, and pecked out the bung of the second
cask, so that all the wine ran out. When the carter saw this, he again cried out, 'Miserable
wretch that I am!' But the sparrow answered, 'Not wretch enough yet!' and perched on the head
of the second horse, and pecked at him too. The carter ran up and struck at her again with
his hatchet; but away she flew, and the blow fell upon the second horse and killed him on the
spot. 'Unlucky wretch that I am!' said he. 'Not wretch enough yet!' said the sparrow; and perching
upon the third horse, she began to peck him too. The carter was mad with fury; and without
looking about him, or caring what he was about, struck again at the sparrow; but killed his
third horse as he done the other two. 'Alas! miserable wretch that I am!' cried he. 'Not wretch
enough yet!' answered the sparrow as she flew away; 'now will I plague and punish thee at thy
own house.' The carter was forced at last to leave his cart behind him, and to go home overflowing
with rage and vexation. 'Alas!' said he to his wife, 'what ill luck has befallen me!--my wine
is all spilt, and my horses all three dead.' 'Alas! husband,' replied she, 'and a wicked bird
has come into the house, and has brought with her all the birds in the world, I am sure, and
they have fallen upon our corn in the loft, and are eating it up at such a rate!' Away ran
the husband upstairs, and saw thousands of birds sitting upon the floor eating up his corn,
with the sparrow in the midst of them. 'Unlucky wretch that I am!' cried the carter; for he
saw that the corn was almost all gone. 'Not wretch enough yet!' said the sparrow; 'thy cruelty
shall cost thee they life yet!' and away she flew.

The carter seeing that he had thus lost all that he had, went down into his kitchen; and was
still not sorry for what he had done, but sat himself angrily and sulkily in the chimney corner.
But the sparrow sat on the outside of the window, and cried 'Carter! thy cruelty shall cost
thee thy life!' With that he jumped up in a rage, seized his hatchet, and threw it at the sparrow;
but it missed her, and only broke the window. The sparrow now hopped in, perched upon the window-seat,
and cried, 'Carter! it shall cost thee thy life!' Then he became mad and blind with rage, and
struck the window-seat with such force that he cleft it in two: and as the sparrow flew from
place to place, the carter and his wife were so furious, that they broke all their furniture,
glasses, chairs, benches, the table, and at last the walls, without touching the bird at all.
In the end, however, they caught her: and the wife said, 'Shall I kill her at once?' 'No,'
cried he, 'that is letting her off too easily: she shall die a much more cruel death; I will
eat her.' But the sparrow began to flutter about, and stretch out her neck and cried, 'Carter!
it shall cost thee thy life yet!' With that he could wait no longer: so he gave his wife the
hatchet, and cried, 'Wife, strike at the bird and kill her in my hand.' And the wife struck;
but she missed her aim, and hit her husband on the head so that he fell down dead, and the
sparrow flew quietly home to her nest.

THE TWELVE DANCING PRINCESSES

There was a king who had twelve beautiful daughters. They slept in twelve beds all in one room;
and when they went to bed, the doors were shut and locked up; but every morning their shoes
were found to be quite worn through as if they had been danced in all night; and yet nobody
could find out how it happened, or where they had been.

Then the king made it known to all the land, that if any person could discover the secret,
and find out where it was that the princesses danced in the night, he should have the one he
liked best for his wife, and should be king after his death; but whoever tried and did not
succeed, after three days and nights, should be put to death.

A king's son soon came. He was well entertained, and in the evening was taken to the chamber
next to the one where the princesses lay in their twelve beds. There he was to sit and watch
where they went to dance; and, in order that nothing might pass without his hearing it, the
door of his chamber was left open. But the king's son soon fell asleep; and when he awoke in
the morning he found that the princesses had all been dancing, for the soles of their shoes
were full of holes. The same thing happened the second and third night: so the king ordered
his head to be cut off. After him came several others; but they had all the same luck, and
all lost their lives in the same manner.

Now it chanced that an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer,
passed through the country where this king reigned: and as he was travelling through a wood,
he met an old woman, who asked him where he was going. 'I hardly know where I am going, or
what I had better do,' said the soldier; 'but I think I should like very well to find out where
it is that the princesses dance, and then in time I might be a king.' 'Well,' said the old
dame, 'that is no very hard task: only take care not to drink any of the wine which one of
the princesses will bring to you in the evening; and as soon as she leaves you pretend to be
fast asleep.'

Then she gave him a cloak, and said, 'As soon as you put that on you will become invisible,
and you will then be able to follow the princesses wherever they go.' When the soldier heard
all this good counsel, he determined to try his luck: so he went to the king, and said he was
willing to undertake the task.

He was as well received as the others had been, and the king ordered fine royal robes to be
given him; and when the evening came he was led to the outer chamber. Just as he was going
to lie down, the eldest of the princesses brought him a cup of wine; but the soldier threw
it all away secretly, taking care not to drink a drop. Then he laid himself down on his bed,
and in a little while began to snore very loud as if he was fast asleep. When the twelve princesses
heard this they laughed heartily; and the eldest said, 'This fellow too might have done a wiser
thing than lose his life in this way!' Then they rose up and opened their drawers and boxes,
and took out all their fine clothes, and dressed themselves at the glass, and skipped about
as if they were eager to begin dancing. But the youngest said, 'I don't know how it is, while
you are so happy I feel very uneasy; I am sure some mischance will befall us.' 'You simpleton,'
said the eldest, 'you are always afraid; have you forgotten how many kings' sons have already
watched in vain? And as for this soldier, even if I had not given him his sleeping draught,
he would have slept soundly enough.'

When they were all ready, they went and looked at the soldier; but he snored on, and did not
stir hand or foot: so they thought they were quite safe; and the eldest went up to her own
bed and clapped her hands, and the bed sank into the floor and a trap-door flew open. The soldier
saw them going down through the trap-door one after another, the eldest leading the way; and
thinking he had no time to lose, he jumped up, put on the cloak which the old woman had given
him, and followed them; but in the middle of the stairs he trod on the gown of the youngest
princess, and she cried out to her sisters, 'All is not right; someone took hold of my gown.'
'You silly creature!' said the eldest, 'it is nothing but a nail in the wall.' Then down they
all went, and at the bottom they found themselves in a most delightful grove of trees; and
the leaves were all of silver, and glittered and sparkled beautifully. The soldier wished to
take away some token of the place; so he broke off a little branch, and there came a loud noise
from the tree. Then the youngest daughter said again, 'I am sure all is not right--did not
you hear that noise? That never happened before.' But the eldest said, 'It is only our princes,
who are shouting for joy at our approach.'

Then they came to another grove of trees, where all the leaves were of gold; and afterwards
to a third, where the leaves were all glittering diamonds. And the soldier broke a branch from
each; and every time there was a loud noise, which made the youngest sister tremble with fear;
but the eldest still said, it was only the princes, who were crying for joy. So they went on
till they came to a great lake; and at the side of the lake there lay twelve little boats with
twelve handsome princes in them, who seemed to be waiting there for the princesses.

One of the princesses went into each boat, and the soldier stepped into the same boat with
the youngest. As they were rowing over the lake, the prince who was in the boat with the youngest
princess and the soldier said, 'I do not know why it is, but though I am rowing with all my
might we do not get on so fast as usual, and I am quite tired: the boat seems very heavy today.'
'It is only the heat of the weather,' said the princess: 'I feel it very warm too.'

On the other side of the lake stood a fine illuminated castle, from which came the merry music
of horns and trumpets. There they all landed, and went into the castle, and each prince danced
with his princess; and the soldier, who was all the time invisible, danced with them too; and
when any of the princesses had a cup of wine set by her, he drank it all up, so that when she
put the cup to her mouth it was empty. At this, too, the youngest sister was terribly frightened,
but the eldest always silenced her. They danced on till three o'clock in the morning, and then
all their shoes were worn out, so that they were obliged to leave off. The princes rowed them
back again over the lake (but this time the soldier placed himself in the boat with the eldest
princess); and on the opposite shore they took leave of each other, the princesses promising
to come again the next night.

When they came to the stairs, the soldier ran on before the princesses, and laid himself down;
and as the twelve sisters slowly came up very much tired, they heard him snoring in his bed;
so they said, 'Now all is quite safe'; then they undressed themselves, put away their fine
clothes, pulled off their shoes, and went to bed. In the morning the soldier said nothing about
what had happened, but determined to see more of this strange adventure, and went again the
second and third night; and every thing happened just as before; the princesses danced each
time till their shoes were worn to pieces, and then returned home. However, on the third night
the soldier carried away one of the golden cups as a token of where he had been.

As soon as the time came when he was to declare the secret, he was taken before the king with
the three branches and the golden cup; and the twelve princesses stood listening behind the
door to hear what he would say. And when the king asked him. 'Where do my twelve daughters
dance at night?' he answered, 'With twelve princes in a castle under ground.' And then he told
the king all that had happened, and showed him the three branches and the golden cup which
he had brought with him. Then the king called for the princesses, and asked them whether what
the soldier said was true: and when they saw that they were discovered, and that it was of
no use to deny what had happened, they confessed it all. And the king asked the soldier which
of them he would choose for his wife; and he answered, 'I am not very young, so I will have
the eldest.'--And they were married that very day, and the soldier was chosen to be the king's
heir.

THE FISHERMAN AND HIS WIFE

There was once a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside. The fisherman
used to go out all day long a-fishing; and one day, as he sat on the shore with his rod, looking
at the sparkling waves and watching his line, all on a sudden his float was dragged away deep
into the water: and in drawing it up he pulled out a great fish. But the fish said, 'Pray let
me live! I am not a real fish; I am an enchanted prince: put me in the water again, and let
me go!' 'Oh, ho!' said the man, 'you need not make so many words about the matter; I will have
nothing to do with a fish that can talk: so swim away, sir, as soon as you please!' Then he
put him back into the water, and the fish darted straight down to the bottom, and left a long
streak of blood behind him on the wave.

When the fisherman went home to his wife in the pigsty, he told her how he had caught a great
fish, and how it had told him it was an enchanted prince, and how, on hearing it speak, he
had let it go again. 'Did not you ask it for anything?' said the wife, 'we live very wretchedly
here, in this nasty dirty pigsty; do go back and tell the fish we want a snug little cottage.'

The fisherman did not much like the business: however, he went to the seashore; and when he
came back there the water looked all yellow and green. And he stood at the water's edge, and said:

 'O man of the sea!
  Hearken to me!
  My wife Ilsabill
  Will have her own will,
  And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!'

Then the fish came swimming to him, and said, 'Well, what is her will? What does your wife
want?' 'Ah!' said the fisherman, 'she says that when I had caught you, I ought to have asked
you for something before I let you go; she does not like living any longer in the pigsty, and
wants a snug little cottage.' 'Go home, then,' said the fish; 'she is in the cottage already!'
So the man went home, and saw his wife standing at the door of a nice trim little cottage.
'Come in, come in!' said she; 'is not this much better than the filthy pigsty we had?' And
there was a parlour, and a bedchamber, and a kitchen; and behind the cottage there was a little
garden, planted with all sorts of flowers and fruits; and there was a courtyard behind, full
of ducks and chickens. 'Ah!' said the fisherman, 'how happily we shall live now!' 'We will
try to do so, at least,' said his wife. 'Ah!' said the man, dolefully, 'my wife wants to live
in a stone castle.' 'Go home, then,' said the fish; 'she is standing at the gate of it already.'
So away went the fisherman, and found his wife standing before the gate of a great castle.
'See,' said she, 'is not this grand?' With that they went into the castle together, and found
a great many servants there, and the rooms all richly furnished, and full of golden chairs
and tables; and behind the castle was a garden, and around it was a park half a mile long,
full of sheep, and goats, and hares, and deer; and in the courtyard were stables and cow-houses.
'Well,' said the man, 'now we will live cheerful and happy in this beautiful castle for the
rest of our lives.' 'Perhaps we may,' said the wife; 'but let us sleep upon it, before we make
up our minds to that.' So they went to bed.

The next morning when Dame Ilsabill awoke it was broad daylight, and she jogged the fisherman
with her elbow, and said, 'Get up, husband, and bestir yourself, for we must be king of all
the land.' 'Wife, wife,' said the man, 'why should we wish to be the king? I will not be king.'
'Then I will,' said she. 'But, wife,' said the fisherman, 'how can you be king--the fish cannot
make you a king?' 'Husband,' said she, 'say no more about it, but go and try! I will be king.'
So the man went away quite sorrowful to think that his wife should want to be king. 'Alas!'
said the poor man, 'my wife wants to be king.' 'Go home,' said the fish; 'she is king already.'

Then the fisherman went home; and as he came close to the palace he saw a troop of soldiers,
and heard the sound of drums and trumpets. And when he went in he saw his wife sitting on a
throne of gold and diamonds, with a golden crown upon her head; and on each side of her stood
six fair maidens, each a head taller than the other. 'Well, wife,' said the fisherman, 'are
you king?' 'Yes,' said she, 'I am king.' And when he had looked at her for a long time, he
said, 'Ah, wife! what a fine thing it is to be king! Now we shall never have anything more
to wish for as long as we live.' 'I don't know how that may be,' said she; 'never is a long
time. I am king, it is true; but I begin to be tired of that, and I think I should like to
be emperor.' 'Alas, wife! why should you wish to be emperor?' said the fisherman. 'Husband,'
said she, 'go to the fish! And before her stood princes, and dukes, and earls: and the fisherman
went up to her and said, 'Wife, are you emperor?' 'Yes,' said she, 'I am emperor.' 'Ah!' said
the man, as he gazed upon her, 'what a fine thing it is to be emperor!' 'Husband,' said she,
'why should we stop at being emperor? I will be pope next.' 'O wife, wife!' said he, 'how can
you be pope? there is but one pope at a time in Christendom.' 'Husband,' said she, 'I will
be pope this very day.' 'But,' replied the husband, 'the fish cannot make you pope.' 'What
nonsense!' said she; 'if he can make an emperor, he can make a pope: go and try him.'

So the fisherman went. But when he came to the shore the wind was raging and the sea was tossed
up and down in boiling waves, and the ships were in trouble, and rolled fearfully upon the
tops of the billows. In the middle of the heavens there was a little piece of blue sky, but
towards the south all was red, as if a dreadful storm was rising. And she had three great crowns
on her head, and around her stood all the pomp and power of the Church. And on each side of
her were two rows of burning lights, of all sizes, the greatest as large as the highest and
biggest tower in the world, and the least no larger than a small rushlight. 'Wife,' said the
fisherman, as he looked at all this greatness, 'are you pope?' 'Yes,' said she, 'I am pope.'
'Well, wife,' replied he, 'it is a grand thing to be pope; and now you must be easy, for you
can be nothing greater.' 'I will think about that,' said the wife. Then they went to bed: but
Dame Ilsabill could not sleep all night for thinking what she should be next. At last, as she
was dropping asleep, morning broke, and the sun rose. 'Ha!' thought she, as she woke up and
looked at it through the window, 'after all I cannot prevent the sun rising.' At this thought
she was very angry, and wakened her husband, and said, 'Husband, go to the fish and tell him
I must be lord of the sun and moon.' The fisherman was half asleep, but the thought frightened
him so much that he started and fell out of bed. 'Alas, wife!' said he, 'cannot you be easy
with being pope?' 'No,' said she, 'I am very uneasy as long as the sun and moon rise without
my leave. Go to the fish at once!'

Then the man went shivering with fear; and as he was going down to the shore a dreadful storm
arose, so that the trees and the very rocks shook. And all the heavens became black with stormy
clouds, and the lightnings played, and the thunders rolled; and you might have seen in the
sea great black waves, swelling up like mountains with crowns of white foam upon their heads.

THE FROG-PRINCE

One fine evening a young princess put on her bonnet and clogs, and went out to take a walk
by herself in a wood; and when she came to a cool spring of water, that rose in the midst of
it, she sat herself down to rest a while. Now she had a golden ball in her hand, which was
her favourite plaything; and she was always tossing it up into the air, and catching it again
as it fell.

They then took leave of the king, and got into the coach with eight horses, and all set out,
full of joy and merriment, for the prince's kingdom, which they reached safely; and there they
lived happily a great many years. Let me go out today, and you look after the house by yourself.'
'Yes, yes,' answered the mouse, 'by all means go, and if you get anything very good to eat,
think of me.

THE GOOSE-GIRL

The king of a great land died, and left his queen to take care of their only child. This child
was a daughter, who was very beautiful; and her mother loved her dearly, and was very kind
to her. And there was a good fairy too, who was fond of the princess, and helped her mother
to watch over her. 'Because, instead of doing any good, she does nothing but tease me all day
long.' Then the king made him tell him what had happened.

When they had eaten and drank, and were very merry, the old king said he would tell them a tale.

THE ADVENTURES OF CHANTICLEER AND PARTLET

1. HOW THEY WENT TO THE MOUNTAINS TO EAT NUTS

'The nuts are quite ripe now,' said Chanticleer to his wife Partlet, 'suppose we go together
to the mountains, and eat as many as we can, before the squirrel takes them all away.' 'With
all my heart,' said Partlet, 'let us go and make a holiday of it together.'

So they went to the mountains; and as it was a lovely day, they stayed there till the evening.
Now, whether it was that they had eaten so many nuts that they could not walk, or whether they
were lazy and would not, I do not know: however, they took it into their heads that it did
not become them to go home on foot. So Chanticleer began to build a little carriage of nutshells:
and when it was finished, Partlet jumped into it and sat down, and bid Chanticleer harness
himself to it and draw her home. 'That's a good joke!' said Chanticleer; 'no, that will never
do; I had rather by half walk home; I'll sit on the box and be coachman, if you like, but I'll
not draw.' While this was passing, a duck came quacking up and cried out, 'You thieving vagabonds,
what business have you in my grounds? I'll give it you well for your insolence!' and upon that
she fell upon Chanticleer most lustily. But Chanticleer was no coward, and returned the duck's
blows with his sharp spurs so fiercely that she soon began to cry out for mercy; which was
only granted her upon condition that she would draw the carriage home for them. This she agreed
to do; and Chanticleer got upon the box, and drove, crying, 'Now, duck, get on as fast as you
can.' And away they went at a pretty good pace.

After they had travelled along a little way, they met a needle and a pin walking together along
the road: and the needle cried out, 'Stop, stop!' and said it was so dark that they could hardly
find their way, and such dirty walking they could not get on at all: he told them that he and
his friend, the pin, had been at a public-house a few miles off, and had sat drinking till
they had forgotten how late it was; he begged therefore that the travellers would be so kind
as to give them a lift in their carriage. Chanticleer observing that they were but thin fellows,
and not likely to take up much room, told them they might ride, but made them promise not to
dirty the wheels of the carriage in getting in, nor to tread on Partlet's toes.

Late at night they arrived at an inn; and as it was bad travelling in the dark, and the duck
seemed much tired, and waddled about a good deal from one side to the other, they made up their
minds to fix their quarters there: but the landlord at first was unwilling, and said his house
was full, thinking they might not be very respectable company: however, they spoke civilly
to him, and gave him the egg which Partlet had laid by the way, and said they would give him
the duck, who was in the habit of laying one every day: so at last he let them come in, and
they bespoke a handsome supper, and spent the evening very jollily.

Early in the morning, before it was quite light, and when nobody was stirring in the inn, Chanticleer
awakened his wife, and, fetching the egg, they pecked a hole in it, ate it up, and threw the
shells into the fireplace: they then went to the pin and needle, who were fast asleep, and
seizing them by the heads, stuck one into the landlord's easy chair and the other into his
handkerchief; and, having done this, they crept away as softly as possible. However, the duck,
who slept in the open air in the yard, heard them coming, and jumping into the brook which
ran close by the inn, soon swam out of their reach.

An hour or two afterwards the landlord got up, and took his handkerchief to wipe his face,
but the pin ran into him and pricked him: then he walked into the kitchen to light his pipe
at the fire, but when he stirred it up the eggshells flew into his eyes, and almost blinded
him. 'Bless me!' said he, 'all the world seems to have a design against my head this morning':
and so saying, he threw himself sulkily into his easy chair; but, oh dear! the needle ran into
him; and this time the pain was not in his head. He now flew into a very great passion, and,
suspecting the company who had come in the night before, he went to look after them, but they
were all off; so he swore that he never again would take in such a troop of vagabonds, who
ate a great deal, paid no reckoning, and gave him nothing for his trouble but their apish tricks.

2. HOW CHANTICLEER AND PARTLET WENT TO VIST MR KORBES

Another day, Chanticleer and Partlet wished to ride out together; so Chanticleer built a handsome
carriage with four red wheels, and harnessed six mice to it; and then he and Partlet got into
the carriage, and away they drove. Soon afterwards a cat met them, and said, 'Where are you
going?' And Chanticleer replied,

 'All on our way
  A visit to pay
  To Mr Korbes, the fox, today.'

Then the cat said, 'Take me with you,' Chanticleer said, 'With all my heart: get up behind,
and be sure you do not fall off.'

 'Take care of this handsome coach of mine,
  Nor dirty my pretty red wheels so fine!
  Now, mice, be ready,
  And, wheels, run steady!
  For we are going a visit to pay
  To Mr Korbes, the fox, today.'

Soon after came up a millstone, an egg, a duck, and a pin; and Chanticleer gave them all leave
to get into the carriage and go with them.

When they arrived at Mr Korbes's house, he was not at home; so the mice drew the carriage into
the coach-house, Chanticleer and Partlet flew upon a beam, the cat sat down in the fireplace,
the duck got into the washing cistern, the pin stuck himself into the bed pillow, the millstone
laid himself over the house door, and the egg rolled himself up in the towel.

When Mr Korbes came home, he went to the fireplace to make a fire; but the cat threw all the
ashes in his eyes: so he ran to the kitchen to wash himself; but there the duck splashed all
the water in his face; and when he tried to wipe himself, the egg broke to pieces in the towel
all over his face and eyes. Then he was very angry, and went without his supper to bed; but
when he laid his head on the pillow, the pin ran into his cheek: at this he became quite furious,
and, jumping up, would have run out of the house; but when he came to the door, the millstone
fell down on his head, and killed him on the spot.

3. HOW PARTLET DIED AND WAS BURIED, AND HOW CHANTICLEER DIED OF GRIEF

Another day Chanticleer and Partlet agreed to go again to the mountains to eat nuts; and it
was settled that all the nuts which they found should be shared equally between them. Now Partlet
found a very large nut; but she said nothing about it to Chanticleer, and kept it all to herself:
however, it was so big that she could not swallow it, and it stuck in her throat. Then she
was in a great fright, and cried out to Chanticleer, 'Pray run as fast as you can, and fetch
me some water, or I shall be choked.' Chanticleer ran as fast as he could to the river, and
said, 'River, give me some water, for Partlet lies in the mountain, and will be choked by a
great nut.' The river said, 'Run first to the bride, and ask her for a silken cord to draw
up the water.' Chanticleer ran to the bride, and said, 'Bride, you must give me a silken cord,
for then the river will give me water, and the water I will carry to Partlet, who lies on the
mountain, and will be choked by a great nut.' But the bride said, 'Run first, and bring me
my garland that is hanging on a willow in the garden.' Then Chanticleer ran to the garden,
and took the garland from the bough where it hung, and brought it to the bride; and then the
bride gave him the silken cord, and he took the silken cord to the river, and the river gave
him water, and he carried the water to Partlet; but in the meantime she was choked by the great
nut, and lay quite dead, and never moved any more.

Then Chanticleer was very sorry, and cried bitterly; and all the beasts came and wept with
him over poor Partlet. And six mice built a little hearse to carry her to her grave; and when
it was ready they harnessed themselves before it, and Chanticleer drove them. On the way they
met the fox. 'Where are you going, Chanticleer?' said he. 'To bury my Partlet,' said the other.
'May I go with you?' said the fox. 'Yes; but you must get up behind, or my horses will not
be able to draw you.' Then the fox got up behind; and presently the wolf, the bear, the goat,
and all the beasts of the wood, came and climbed upon the hearse.

So on they went till they came to a rapid stream. 'How shall we get over?' said Chanticleer.
Then said a straw, 'I will lay myself across, and you may pass over upon me.' But as the mice
were going over, the straw slipped away and fell into the water, and the six mice all fell
in and were drowned. What was to be done? Then a large log of wood came and said, 'I am big
enough; I will lay myself across the stream, and you shall pass over upon me.' So he laid himself
down; but they managed so clumsily, that the log of wood fell in and was carried away by the
stream. Then a stone, who saw what had happened, came up and kindly offered to help poor Chanticleer
by laying himself across the stream; and this time he got safely to the other side with the
hearse, and managed to get Partlet out of it; but the fox and the other mourners, who were
sitting behind, were too heavy, and fell back into the water and were all carried away by the
stream and drowned.

Thus Chanticleer was left alone with his dead Partlet; and having dug a grave for her, he laid
her in it, and made a little hillock over her. Then he sat down by the grave, and wept and
mourned, till at last he died too; and so all were dead. 'How can you dare,' said she with
angry look, 'descend into my garden and steal my rampion like a thief? 'What do I hear you
say! The king's son ascended, but instead of finding his dearest Rapunzel, he found the enchantress,
who gazed at him with wicked and venomous looks. Then Lina said to Fundevogel: 'If you will
never leave me, I too will never leave you.' Fundevogel said: 'Neither now, nor ever will I
leave you.' Then said Lina: 'Then will I tell you. The little tailor went bravely up, spoke
to him, and said: 'Good day, comrade, so you are sitting there overlooking the wide-spread
world! I am just on my way thither, and want to try my luck. Have you any inclination to go
with me?' The giant looked contemptuously at the tailor, and said: 'You ragamuffin! When he
had fallen down again without injury, the giant said: 'What is this? He had not long to seek.
The unicorn soon came towards him, and rushed directly on the tailor, as if it would gore him
with its horn without more ado. Scream as he might, it would not help him. 'Now, then, Gretel,'
she cried to the girl, 'stir yourself, and bring some water.

THE MOUSE, THE BIRD, AND THE SAUSAGE

Once upon a time, a mouse, a bird, and a sausage, entered into partnership and set up house
together. For a long time all went well; they lived in great comfort, and prospered so far
as to be able to add considerably to their stores. The bird's duty was to fly daily into the
wood and bring in fuel; the mouse fetched the water, and the sausage saw to the cooking.

When people are too well off they always begin to long for something new. And so it came to
pass, that the bird, while out one day, met a fellow bird, to whom he boastfully expatiated
on the excellence of his household arrangements. But the other bird sneered at him for being
a poor simpleton, who did all the hard work, while the other two stayed at home and had a good
time of it. For, when the mouse had made the fire and fetched in the water, she could retire
into her little room and rest until it was time to set the table. The sausage had only to watch
the pot to see that the food was properly cooked, and when it was near dinner-time, he just
threw himself into the broth, or rolled in and out among the vegetables three or four times,
and there they were, buttered, and salted, and ready to be served. Then, when the bird came
home and had laid aside his burden, they sat down to table, and when they had finished their
meal, they could sleep their fill till the following morning: and that was really a very delightful
life.

Influenced by those remarks, the bird next morning refused to bring in the wood, telling the
others that he had been their servant long enough, and had been a fool into the bargain, and
that it was now time to make a change, and to try some other way of arranging the work. Beg
and pray as the mouse and the sausage might, it was of no use; the bird remained master of
the situation, and the venture had to be made. But the sausage remained so long away, that
they became uneasy, and the bird flew out to meet him. He had not flown far, however, when
he came across a dog who, having met the sausage, had regarded him as his legitimate booty,
and so seized and swallowed him. The bird complained to the dog of this bare-faced robbery,
but nothing he said was of any avail, for the dog answered that he found false credentials
on the sausage, and that was the reason his life had been forfeited.

He picked up the wood, and flew sadly home, and told the mouse all he had seen and heard. They
were both very unhappy, but agreed to make the best of things and to remain with one another.

So now the bird set the table, and the mouse looked after the food and, wishing to prepare
it in the same way as the sausage, by rolling in and out among the vegetables to salt and butter
them, she jumped into the pot; but she stopped short long before she reached the bottom, having
already parted not only with her skin and hair, but also with life.

Presently the bird came in and wanted to serve up the dinner, but he could nowhere see the
cook. In his alarm and flurry, he threw the wood here and there about the floor, called and
searched, but no cook was to be found. Then some of the wood that had been carelessly thrown
down, caught fire and began to blaze. The bird hastened to fetch some water, but his pail fell
into the well, and he after it, and as he was unable to recover himself, he was drowned.

MOTHER HOLLE

Once upon a time there was a widow who had two daughters; one of them was beautiful and industrious,
the other ugly and lazy. The mother, however, loved the ugly and lazy one best, because she
was her own daughter, and so the other, who was only her stepdaughter, was made to do all the
work of the house, and was quite the Cinderella of the family. Her stepmother sent her out
every day to sit by the well in the high road, there to spin until she made her fingers bleed.
Now it chanced one day that some blood fell on to the spindle, and as the girl stopped over
the well to wash it off, the spindle suddenly sprang out of her hand and fell into the well.
She ran home crying to tell of her misfortune, but her stepmother spoke harshly to her, and
after giving her a violent scolding, said unkindly, 'As you have let the spindle fall into
the well you may go yourself and fetch it out.'

The girl went back to the well not knowing what to do, and at last in her distress she jumped
into the water after the spindle.

She remembered nothing more until she awoke and found herself in a beautiful meadow, full of
sunshine, and with countless flowers blooming in every direction.

She walked over the meadow, and presently she came upon a baker's oven full of bread, and the
loaves cried out to her, 'Take us out, take us out, or alas! we shall be burnt to a cinder;
we were baked through long ago.' So she took the bread-shovel and drew them all out.

She went on a little farther, till she came to a free full of apples. 'Shake me, shake me,
I pray,' cried the tree; 'my apples, one and all, are ripe.' So she shook the tree, and the
apples came falling down upon her like rain; but she continued shaking until there was not
a single apple left upon it. Then she carefully gathered the apples together in a heap and
walked on again. You must be very careful, however, to make my bed in the right way, for I
wish you always to shake it thoroughly, so that the feathers fly about; then they say, down
there in the world, that it is snowing; for I am Mother Holle.' The old woman spoke so kindly,
that the girl summoned up courage and agreed to enter into her service.

She took care to do everything according to the old woman's bidding and every time she made
the bed she shook it with all her might, so that the feathers flew about like so many snowflakes.
The old woman was as good as her word: she never spoke angrily to her, and gave her roast and
boiled meats every day.

So she stayed on with Mother Holle for some time, and then she began to grow unhappy. She could
not at first tell why she felt sad, but she became conscious at last of great longing to go
home; then she knew she was homesick, although she was a thousand times better off with Mother
Holle than with her mother and sister. After waiting awhile, she went to Mother Holle and said,
'I am so homesick, that I cannot stay with you any longer, for although I am so happy here,
I must return to my own people.'

Then Mother Holle said, 'I am pleased that you should want to go back to your own people, and
as you have served me so well and faithfully, I will take you home myself.'

Thereupon she led the girl by the hand up to a broad gateway. The gate was opened, and as the
girl passed through, a shower of gold fell upon her, and the gold clung to her, so that she
was covered with it from head to foot.

'That is a reward for your industry,' said Mother Holle, and as she spoke she handed her the
spindle which she had dropped into the well.

The gate was then closed, and the girl found herself back in the old world close to her mother's
house. As she entered the courtyard, the cock who was perched on the well, called out:

 'Cock-a-doodle-doo!
  Your golden daughter's come back to you.'

Then she went in to her mother and sister, and as she was so richly covered with gold, they
gave her a warm welcome. She related to them all that had happened, and when the mother heard
how she had come by her great riches, she thought she should like her ugly, lazy daughter to
go and try her fortune. So she made the sister go and sit by the well and spin, and the girl
pricked her finger and thrust her hand into a thorn-bush, so that she might drop some blood
on to the spindle; then she threw it into the well, and jumped in herself.

Like her sister she awoke in the beautiful meadow, and walked over it till she came to the
oven. 'Take us out, take us out, or alas! we shall be burnt to a cinder; we were baked through
long ago,' cried the loaves as before. But the lazy girl answered, 'Do you think I am going
to dirty my hands for you?' and walked on.

Presently she came to the apple-tree. 'Shake me, shake me, I pray; my apples, one and all,
are ripe,' it cried. But she only answered, 'A nice thing to ask me to do, one of the apples
might fall on my head,' and passed on.

At last she came to Mother Holle's house, and as she had heard all about the large teeth from
her sister, she was not afraid of them, and engaged herself without delay to the old woman.

The first day she was very obedient and industrious, and exerted herself to please Mother Holle,
for she thought of the gold she should get in return. The next day, however, she began to dawdle
over her work, and the third day she was more idle still; then she began to lie in bed in the
mornings and refused to get up. Worse still, she neglected to make the old woman's bed properly,
and forgot to shake it so that the feathers might fly about. So Mother Holle very soon got
tired of her, and told her she might go. The lazy girl was delighted at this, and thought to
herself, 'The gold will soon be mine.' Mother Holle led her, as she had led her sister, to
the broad gateway; but as she was passing through, instead of the shower of gold, a great bucketful
of pitch came pouring over her.

'That is in return for your services,' said the old woman, and she shut the gate.

So the lazy girl had to go home covered with pitch, and the cock on the well called out as
she saw her:

 'Cock-a-doodle-doo!
  Your dirty daughter's come back to you.'

But, try what she would, she could not get the pitch off and it stuck to her as long as she lived.

THE ROBBER BRIDEGROOM

There was once a miller who had one beautiful daughter, and as she was grown up, he was anxious
that she should be well married and provided for. He said to himself, 'I will give her to the
first suitable man who comes and asks for her hand.' Not long after a suitor appeared, and
as he appeared to be very rich and the miller could see nothing in him with which to find fault,
he betrothed his daughter to him. But the girl did not care for the man as a girl ought to
care for her betrothed husband. She did not feel that she could trust him, and she could not
look at him nor think of him without an inward shudder. One day he said to her, 'You have not
yet paid me a visit, although we have been betrothed for some time.' 'I do not know where your
house is,' she answered. 'My house is out there in the dark forest,' he said. She tried to
excuse herself by saying that she would not be able to find the way thither. Her betrothed
only replied, 'You must come and see me next Sunday; I have already invited guests for that
day, and that you may not mistake the way, I will strew ashes along the path.'

When Sunday came, and it was time for the girl to start, a feeling of dread came over her which
she could not explain, and that she might be able to find her path again, she filled her pockets
with peas and lentils to sprinkle on the ground as she went along. On reaching the entrance
to the forest she found the path strewed with ashes, and these she followed, throwing down
some peas on either side of her at every step she took. She walked the whole day until she
came to the deepest, darkest part of the forest. There she saw a lonely house, looking so grim
and mysterious, that it did not please her at all. At last she came to the cellar, and there
sat a very, very old woman, who could not keep her head from shaking. 'Can you tell me,' asked
the girl, 'if my betrothed husband lives here?'

'Ah, you poor child,' answered the old woman, 'what a place for you to come to! This is a murderers'
den. You think yourself a promised bride, and that your marriage will soon take place, but
it is with death that you will keep your marriage feast. Look, do you see that large cauldron
of water which I am obliged to keep on the fire! As soon as they have you in their power they
will kill you without mercy, and cook and eat you, for they are eaters of men. If I did not
take pity on you and save you, you would be lost.'

Thereupon the old woman led her behind a large cask, which quite hid her from view. 'Keep as
still as a mouse,' she said; 'do not move or speak, or it will be all over with you. Tonight,
when the robbers are all asleep, we will flee together. I have long been waiting for an opportunity
to escape.'

The words were hardly out of her mouth when the godless crew returned, dragging another young
girl along with them. They were all drunk, and paid no heed to her cries and lamentations.
They gave her wine to drink, three glasses full, one of white wine, one of red, and one of
yellow, and with that her heart gave way and she died. Then they tore of her dainty clothing,
laid her on a table, and cut her beautiful body into pieces, and sprinkled salt upon it.

The poor betrothed girl crouched trembling and shuddering behind the cask, for she saw what
a terrible fate had been intended for her by the robbers. One of them now noticed a gold ring
still remaining on the little finger of the murdered girl, and as he could not draw it off
easily, he took a hatchet and cut off the finger; but the finger sprang into the air, and fell
behind the cask into the lap of the girl who was hiding there. The robber took a light and
began looking for it, but he could not find it. 'Have you looked behind the large cask?' said
one of the others. But the old woman called out, 'Come and eat your suppers, and let the thing
be till tomorrow; the finger won't run away.'

'The old woman is right,' said the robbers, and they ceased looking for the finger and sat down.

The old woman then mixed a sleeping draught with their wine, and before long they were all
lying on the floor of the cellar, fast asleep and snoring. As soon as the girl was assured
of this, she came from behind the cask. She was obliged to step over the bodies of the sleepers,
who were lying close together, and every moment she was filled with renewed dread lest she
should awaken them. But God helped her, so that she passed safely over them, and then she and
the old woman went upstairs, opened the door, and hastened as fast as they could from the murderers'
den. They found the ashes scattered by the wind, but the peas and lentils had sprouted, and
grown sufficiently above the ground, to guide them in the moonlight along the path. All night
long they walked, and it was morning before they reached the mill. Then the girl told her father
all that had happened.

The day came that had been fixed for the marriage. The bridegroom arrived and also a large
company of guests, for the miller had taken care to invite all his friends and relations. As
they sat at the feast, each guest in turn was asked to tell a tale; the bride sat still and
did not say a word.

'And you, my love,' said the bridegroom, turning to her, 'is there no tale you know? Tell us
something.'

'I will tell you a dream, then,' said the bride. At last I went down to the cellar, and there
sat a very, very old woman, who could not keep her head still. I asked her if my betrothed
lived here, and she answered, "Ah, you poor child, you are come to a murderers' den; your betrothed
does indeed live here, but he will kill you without mercy and afterwards cook and eat you."'

'My darling, this is only a dream.'

'The old woman hid me behind a large cask, and scarcely had she done this when the robbers
returned home, dragging a young girl along with them. They gave her three kinds of wine to
drink, white, red, and yellow, and with that she died.'

'My darling, this is only a dream.'

'Then they tore off her dainty clothing, and cut her beautiful body into pieces and sprinkled
salt upon it.'

'My darling, this is only a dream.'

'And one of the robbers saw that there was a gold ring still left on her finger, and as it
was difficult to draw off, he took a hatchet and cut off her finger; but the finger sprang
into the air and fell behind the great cask into my lap. And here is the finger with the ring.'
and with these words the bride drew forth the finger and shewed it to the assembled guests.

The bridegroom, who during this recital had grown deadly pale, up and tried to escape, but
the guests seized him and held him fast. They delivered him up to justice, and he and all his
murderous band were condemned to death for their wicked deeds.

TOM THUMB

A poor woodman sat in his cottage one night, smoking his pipe by the fireside, while his wife
sat by his side spinning. 'What an odd thing that is!' said one: 'there is a cart going along,
and I hear a carter talking to the horse, but yet I can see no one.' 'That is queer, indeed,'
said the other; 'let us follow the cart, and see where it goes.' So they went on into the wood,
till at last they came to the place where the woodman was. Meantime the thieves were frightened,
and ran off a little way; but at last they plucked up their hearts, and said, 'The little urchin
is only trying to make fools of us.' So they came back and whispered softly to him, saying,
'Now let us have no more of your roguish jokes; but throw us out some of the money.' Then Tom
called out as loud as he could, 'Very well! hold your hands! here it comes.'

The cook heard this quite plain, so she sprang out of bed, and ran to open the door. The thieves
ran off as if a wolf was at their tails: and the maid, having groped about and found nothing,
went away for a light. 'Good lack-a-day!' said he, 'how came I to tumble into the mill?' But
he soon found out where he really was; and was forced to have all his wits about him, that
he might not get between the cow's teeth, and so be crushed to death. At last down he went
into her stomach. So the cow was killed, and cut up; and the stomach, in which Tom lay, was
thrown out upon a dunghill.

Tom soon set himself to work to get out, which was not a very easy task; but at last, just
as he had made room to get his head out, fresh ill-luck befell him. A hungry wolf sprang out,
and swallowed up the whole stomach, with Tom in it, at one gulp, and ran away. 'You can crawl
through the drain into the kitchen and then into the pantry, and there you will find cakes,
ham, beef, cold chicken, roast pig, apple-dumplings, and everything that your heart can wish.'

The wolf did not want to be asked twice; so that very night he went to the house and crawled
through the drain into the kitchen, and then into the pantry, and ate and drank there to his
heart's content. As soon as he had had enough he wanted to get away; but he had eaten so much
that he could not go out by the same way he came in.

This was just what Tom had reckoned upon; and now he began to set up a great shout, making
all the noise he could. So Master Thumb stayed at home with his father and mother, in peace;
for though he had been so great a traveller, and had done and seen so many fine things, and
was fond enough of telling the whole story, he always agreed that, after all, there's no place
like HOME!

RUMPELSTILTSKIN

By the side of a wood, in a country a long way off, ran a fine stream of water; and upon the
stream there stood a mill. The miller's house was close by, and the miller, you must know,
had a very beautiful daughter. She was, moreover, very shrewd and clever; and the miller was
so proud of her, that he one day told the king of the land, who used to come and hunt in the
wood, that his daughter could spin gold out of straw. Now this king was very fond of money;
and when he heard the miller's boast his greediness was raised, and he sent for the girl to
be brought before him. Then he led her to a chamber in his palace where there was a great heap
of straw, and gave her a spinning-wheel, and said, 'All this must be spun into gold before
morning, as you love your life.' It was in vain that the poor maiden said that it was only
a silly boast of her father, for that she could do no such thing as spin straw into gold: the
chamber door was locked, and she was left alone.

She sat down in one corner of the room, and began to bewail her hard fate; when on a sudden
the door opened, and a droll-looking little man hobbled in, and said, 'Good morrow to you,
my good lass; what are you weeping for?' 'Alas!' said she, 'I must spin this straw into gold,
and I know not how.' 'What will you give me,' said the hobgoblin, 'to do it for you?' 'My necklace,'
replied the maiden. He took her at her word, and sat himself down to the wheel, and whistled
and sang:

 'Round about, round about,
    Lo and behold!
  Reel away, reel away,
    Straw into gold!'

And round about the wheel went merrily; the work was quickly done, and the straw was all spun
into gold.

When the king came and saw this, he was greatly astonished and pleased; but his heart grew
still more greedy of gain, and he shut up the poor miller's daughter again with a fresh task.
Then she knew not what to do, and sat down once more to weep; but the dwarf soon opened the
door, and said, 'What will you give me to do your task?' 'The ring on my finger,' said she.

The king was greatly delighted to see all this glittering treasure; but still he had not enough:
so he took the miller's daughter to a yet larger heap, and said, 'All this must be spun tonight;
and if it is, you shall be my queen.' As soon as she was alone that dwarf came in, and said,
'What will you give me to spin gold for you this third time?' 'I have nothing left,' said she.
'Then say you will give me,' said the little man, 'the first little child that you may have
when you are queen.' 'That may never be,' thought the miller's daughter: and as she knew no
other way to get her task done, she said she would do what he asked. Round went the wheel again
to the old song, and the manikin once more spun the heap into gold. The king came in the morning,
and, finding all he wanted, was forced to keep his word; so he married the miller's daughter,
and she really became queen.

At the birth of her first little child she was very glad, and forgot the dwarf, and what she
had said. But one day he came into her room, where she was sitting playing with her baby, and
put her in mind of it. Then she grieved sorely at her misfortune, and said she would give him
all the wealth of the kingdom if he would let her off, but in vain; till at last her tears
softened him, and he said, 'I will give you three days' grace, and if during that time you
tell me my name, you shall keep your child.'

Now the queen lay awake all night, thinking of all the odd names that she had ever heard; and
she sent messengers all over the land to find out new ones. The next day the little man came,
and she began with TIMOTHY, ICHABOD, BENJAMIN, JEREMIAH, and all the names she could remember;
but to all and each of them he said, 'Madam, that is not my name.'

The second day she began with all the comical names she could hear of, BANDY-LEGS, HUNCHBACK,
CROOK-SHANKS, and so on; but the little gentleman still said to every one of them, 'Madam,
that is not my name.'

The third day one of the messengers came back, and said, 'I have travelled two days without
hearing of any other names; but yesterday, as I was climbing a high hill, among the trees of
the forest where the fox and the hare bid each other good night, I saw a little hut; and before
the hut burnt a fire; and round about the fire a funny little dwarf was dancing upon one leg,
and singing:

 '"Merrily the feast I'll make.
  Today I'll brew, tomorrow bake;
  Merrily I'll dance and sing,
  For next day will a stranger bring.
  Little does my lady dream
  Rumpelstiltskin is my name!"'

When the queen heard this she jumped for joy, and as soon as her little friend came she sat
down upon her throne, and called all her court round to enjoy the fun; and the nurse stood
by her side with the baby in her arms, as if it was quite ready to be given up. Then the little
man began to chuckle at the thought of having the poor child, to take home with him to his
hut in the woods; and he cried out, 'Now, lady, what is my name?' 'Is it JOHN?' asked she.
'No, madam!' 'Is it TOM?' 'No, madam!' 'Is it JEMMY?' 'It is not.' 'Can your name be RUMPELSTILTSKIN?'
said the lady slyly.

While she was making the most of it, her master came and cried: 'Hurry up, Gretel, the guest
is coming directly after me!' 'Yes, sir, I will soon serve up,' answered Gretel.

FREDERICK AND CATHERINE

There was once a man called Frederick: he had a wife whose name was Catherine, and they had
not long been married. One day Frederick said. 'Kate! I am going to work in the fields; when
I come back I shall be hungry so let me have something nice cooked, and a good draught of ale.'
'Very well,' said she, 'it shall all be ready.' When dinner-time drew nigh, Catherine took
a nice steak, which was all the meat she had, and put it on the fire to fry. The steak soon
began to look brown, and to crackle in the pan; and Catherine stood by with a fork and turned
it: then she said to herself, 'The steak is almost ready, I may as well go to the cellar for
the ale.' So she left the pan on the fire and took a large jug and went into the cellar and
tapped the ale cask. The beer ran into the jug and Catherine stood looking on. At last it popped
into her head, 'The dog is not shut up--he may be running away with the steak; that's well
thought of.' So up she ran from the cellar; and sure enough the rascally cur had got the steak
in his mouth, and was making off with it.

Away ran Catherine, and away ran the dog across the field: but he ran faster than she, and
stuck close to the steak. 'It's all gone, and "what can't be cured must be endured",' said
Catherine. So she turned round; and as she had run a good way and was tired, she walked home
leisurely to cool herself.

Now all this time the ale was running too, for Catherine had not turned the cock; and when
the jug was full the liquor ran upon the floor till the cask was empty. When she got to the
cellar stairs she saw what had happened. 'My stars!' said she, 'what shall I do to keep Frederick
from seeing all this slopping about?' So she thought a while; and at last remembered that there
was a sack of fine meal bought at the last fair, and that if she sprinkled this over the floor
it would suck up the ale nicely. 'What a lucky thing,' said she, 'that we kept that meal! we
have now a good use for it.' So away she went for it: but she managed to set it down just upon
the great jug full of beer, and upset it; and thus all the ale that had been saved was set
swimming on the floor also. 'Ah! well,' said she, 'when one goes another may as well follow.'
Then she strewed the meal all about the cellar, and was quite pleased with her cleverness,
and said, 'How very neat and clean it looks!'

At noon Frederick came home. 'Now, wife,' cried he, 'what have you for dinner?' 'O Frederick!'
answered she, 'I was cooking you a steak; but while I went down to draw the ale, the dog ran
away with it; and while I ran after him, the ale ran out; and when I went to dry up the ale
with the sack of meal that we got at the fair, I upset the jug: but the cellar is now quite
dry, and looks so clean!' 'Kate, Kate,' said he, 'how could you do all this?' Why did you leave
the steak to fry, and the ale to run, and then spoil all the meal?' 'Why, Frederick,' said
she, 'I did not know I was doing wrong; you should have told me before.'

The husband thought to himself, 'If my wife manages matters thus, I must look sharp myself.'
Now he had a good deal of gold in the house: so he said to Catherine, 'What pretty yellow buttons
these are! I shall put them into a box and bury them in the garden; but take care that you
never go near or meddle with them.' 'No, Frederick,' said she, 'that I never will.' As soon
as he was gone, there came by some pedlars with earthenware plates and dishes, and they asked
her whether she would buy. 'Oh dear me, I should like to buy very much, but I have no money:
if you had any use for yellow buttons, I might deal with you.' 'Yellow buttons!' said they:
'let us have a look at them.' 'Go into the garden and dig where I tell you, and you will find
the yellow buttons: I dare not go myself.' So the rogues went: and when they found what these
yellow buttons were, they took them all away, and left her plenty of plates and dishes. Then
she set them all about the house for a show: and when Frederick came back, he cried out, 'Kate,
what have you been doing?' 'See,' said she, 'I have bought all these with your yellow buttons:
but I did not touch them myself; the pedlars went themselves and dug them up.' 'Wife, wife,'
said Frederick, 'what a pretty piece of work you have made! those yellow buttons were all my
money: how came you to do such a thing?' 'Why,' answered she, 'I did not know there was any
harm in it; you should have told me.'

Catherine stood musing for a while, and at last said to her husband, 'Hark ye, Frederick, we
will soon get the gold back: let us run after the thieves.' 'Well, we will try,' answered he;
'but take some butter and cheese with you, that we may have something to eat by the way.' 'Very
well,' said she; and they set out: and as Frederick walked the fastest, he left his wife some
way behind. 'It does not matter,' thought she: 'when we turn back, I shall be so much nearer
home than he.'

Presently she came to the top of a hill, down the side of which there was a road so narrow
that the cart wheels always chafed the trees on each side as they passed. 'Ah, see now,' said
she, 'how they have bruised and wounded those poor trees; they will never get well.' So she
took pity on them, and made use of the butter to grease them all, so that the wheels might
not hurt them so much. While she was doing this kind office one of her cheeses fell out of
the basket, and rolled down the hill. Catherine looked, but could not see where it had gone;
so she said, 'Well, I suppose the other will go the same way and find you; he has younger legs
than I have.' Then she rolled the other cheese after it; and away it went, nobody knows where,
down the hill. But she said she supposed that they knew the road, and would follow her, and
she could not stay there all day waiting for them.

At last she overtook Frederick, who desired her to give him something to eat. Then she gave
him the dry bread. 'Where are the butter and cheese?' said he. 'Oh!' answered she, 'I used
the butter to grease those poor trees that the wheels chafed so: and one of the cheeses ran
away so I sent the other after it to find it, and I suppose they are both on the road together
somewhere.' 'What a goose you are to do such silly things!' said the husband. 'How can you
say so?' said she; 'I am sure you never told me not.'

They ate the dry bread together; and Frederick said, 'Kate, I hope you locked the door safe
when you came away.' 'No,' answered she, 'you did not tell me.' 'Then go home, and do it now
before we go any farther,' said Frederick, 'and bring with you something to eat.'

Catherine did as he told her, and thought to herself by the way, 'Frederick wants something
to eat; but I don't think he is very fond of butter and cheese: I'll bring him a bag of fine
nuts, and the vinegar, for I have often seen him take some.'

When she reached home, she bolted the back door, but the front door she took off the hinges,
and said, 'Frederick told me to lock the door, but surely it can nowhere be so safe if I take
it with me.' So she took her time by the way; and when she overtook her husband she cried out,
'There, Frederick, there is the door itself, you may watch it as carefully as you please.'
'Alas! alas!' said he, 'what a clever wife I have! I sent you to make the house fast, and you
take the door away, so that everybody may go in and out as they please--however, as you have
brought the door, you shall carry it about with you for your pains.' 'Very well,' answered
she, 'I'll carry the door; but I'll not carry the nuts and vinegar bottle also--that would
be too much of a load; so if you please, I'll fasten them to the door.'

Frederick of course made no objection to that plan, and they set off into the wood to look
for the thieves; but they could not find them: and when it grew dark, they climbed up into
a tree to spend the night there. Scarcely were they up, than who should come by but the very
rogues they were looking for. They were in truth great rascals, and belonged to that class
of people who find things before they are lost; they were tired; so they sat down and made
a fire under the very tree where Frederick and Catherine were. Frederick slipped down on the
other side, and picked up some stones. Then he climbed up again, and tried to hit the thieves
on the head with them: but they only said, 'It must be near morning, for the wind shakes the
fir-apples down.'

Catherine, who had the door on her shoulder, began to be very tired; but she thought it was
the nuts upon it that were so heavy: so she said softly, 'Frederick, I must let the nuts go.'
'No,' answered he, 'not now, they will discover us.' 'I can't help that: they must go.' 'Well,
then, make haste and throw them down, if you will.' Then away rattled the nuts down among the
boughs and one of the thieves cried, 'Bless me, it is hailing.'

A little while after, Catherine thought the door was still very heavy: so she whispered to
Frederick, 'I must throw the vinegar down.' 'Pray don't,' answered he, 'it will discover us.'
'I can't help that,' said she, 'go it must.' So she poured all the vinegar down; and the thieves
said, 'What a heavy dew there is!'

At last it popped into Catherine's head that it was the door itself that was so heavy all the
time: so she whispered, 'Frederick, I must throw the door down soon.' But he begged and prayed
her not to do so, for he was sure it would betray them. 'Here goes, however,' said she: and
down went the door with such a clatter upon the thieves, that they cried out 'Murder!' and
not knowing what was coming, ran away as fast as they could, and left all the gold. So when
Frederick and Catherine came down, there they found all their money safe and sound. Your stepsister
has long deserved death; tonight when she is asleep I will come and cut her head off.

As they were now set free, Roland said: 'Now I will go to my father and arrange for the wedding.'
'Then in the meantime I will stay here and wait for you,' said the girl, 'and that no one may
recognize me, I will change myself into a red stone landmark.' Then Roland went away, and the
girl stood like a red landmark in the field and waited for her beloved.

SNOWDROP

It was the middle of winter, when the broad flakes of snow were falling around, that the queen
of a country many thousand miles off sat working at her window.

But this queen died; and the king soon married another wife, who became queen, and was very
beautiful, but so vain that she could not bear to think that anyone could be handsomer than
she was. And the birds of the air came too, and bemoaned Snowdrop; and first of all came an
owl, and then a raven, and at last a dove, and sat by her side. And when she got there, and
saw that it was no other than Snowdrop, who, as she thought, had been dead a long while, she
choked with rage, and fell down and died: but Snowdrop and the prince lived and reigned happily
over that land many, many years; and sometimes they went up into the mountains, and paid a
visit to the little dwarfs, who had been so kind to Snowdrop in her time of need. Now will
I pronounce thy sentence. Oh, I will eat first.' Then she drank her cup of broth and when she
was fully satisfied, she once more said: 'What shall I do?

THE MISER IN THE BUSH

A farmer had a faithful and diligent servant, who had worked hard for him three years, without
having been paid any wages. At last it came into the man's head that he would not go on thus
without pay any longer; so he went to his master, and said, 'I have worked hard for you a long
time, I will trust to you to give me what I deserve to have for my trouble.' The farmer was
a sad miser, and knew that his man was very simple-hearted; so he took out threepence, and
gave him for every year's service a penny. The poor fellow thought it was a great deal of money
to have, and said to himself, 'Why should I work hard, and live here on bad fare any longer?
I can now travel into the wide world, and make myself merry.' With that he put his money into
his purse, and set out, roaming over hill and valley.

As he jogged along over the fields, singing and dancing, a little dwarf met him, and asked
him what made him so merry. 'Why, what should make me down-hearted?' said he; 'I am sound in
health and rich in purse, what should I care for? I have saved up my three years' earnings
and have it all safe in my pocket.' 'How much may it come to?' said the little man. 'Full threepence,'
replied the countryman. 'I wish you would give them to me,' said the other; 'I am very poor.'
Then the man pitied him, and gave him all he had; and the little dwarf said in return, 'As
you have such a kind honest heart, I will grant you three wishes--one for every penny; so choose
whatever you like.' Then the countryman rejoiced at his good luck, and said, 'I like many things
better than money: first, I will have a bow that will bring down everything I shoot at; secondly,
a fiddle that will set everyone dancing that hears me play upon it; and thirdly, I should like
that everyone should grant what I ask.' The dwarf said he should have his three wishes; so
he gave him the bow and fiddle, and went his way.

Our honest friend journeyed on his way too; and if he was merry before, he was now ten times
more so. He had not gone far before he met an old miser: close by them stood a tree, and on
the topmost twig sat a thrush singing away most joyfully. 'Oh, what a pretty bird!' said the
miser; 'I would give a great deal of money to have such a one.' 'If that's all,' said the countryman,
'I will soon bring it down.' Then he took up his bow, and down fell the thrush into the bushes
at the foot of the tree. The miser crept into the bush to find it; but directly he had got
into the middle, his companion took up his fiddle and played away, and the miser began to dance
and spring about, capering higher and higher in the air. The thorns soon began to tear his
clothes till they all hung in rags about him, and he himself was all scratched and wounded,
so that the blood ran down. 'Oh, for heaven's sake!' cried the miser, 'Master! master! pray
let the fiddle alone. What have I done to deserve this?' 'Thou hast shaved many a poor soul
close enough,' said the other; 'thou art only meeting thy reward': so he played up another
tune. Then the miser began to beg and promise, and offered money for his liberty; but he did
not come up to the musician's price for some time, and he danced him along brisker and brisker,
and the miser bid higher and higher, till at last he offered a round hundred of florins that
he had in his purse, and had just gained by cheating some poor fellow. When the countryman
saw so much money, he said, 'I will agree to your proposal.' So he took the purse, put up his
fiddle, and travelled on very pleased with his bargain.

Meanwhile the miser crept out of the bush half-naked and in a piteous plight, and began to
ponder how he should take his revenge, and serve his late companion some trick. At last he
went to the judge, and complained that a rascal had robbed him of his money, and beaten him
into the bargain; and that the fellow who did it carried a bow at his back and a fiddle hung
round his neck. Then the judge sent out his officers to bring up the accused wherever they
should find him; and he was soon caught and brought up to be tried.

The miser began to tell his tale, and said he had been robbed of his money. 'No, you gave it
me for playing a tune to you.' said the countryman; but the judge told him that was not likely,
and cut the matter short by ordering him off to the gallows.

So away he was taken; but as he stood on the steps he said, 'My Lord Judge, grant me one last
request.' 'Anything but thy life,' replied the other. 'No,' said he, 'I do not ask my life;
only to let me play upon my fiddle for the last time.' The miser cried out, 'Oh, no! no! for
heaven's sake don't listen to him! don't listen to him!' But the judge said, 'It is only this
once, he will soon have done.' The fact was, he could not refuse the request, on account of
the dwarf's third gift.

Then the miser said, 'Bind me fast, bind me fast, for pity's sake.' But the countryman seized
his fiddle, and struck up a tune, and at the first note judge, clerks, and jailer were in motion;
all began capering, and no one could hold the miser. At the second note the hangman let his
prisoner go, and danced also, and by the time he had played the first bar of the tune, all
were dancing together--judge, court, and miser, and all the people who had followed to look
on. At first the thing was merry and pleasant enough; but when it had gone on a while, and
there seemed to be no end of playing or dancing, they began to cry out, and beg him to leave
off; but he stopped not a whit the more for their entreaties, till the judge not only gave
him his life, but promised to return him the hundred florins.

Then he called to the miser, and said, 'Tell us now, you vagabond, where you got that gold,
or I shall play on for your amusement only,' 'I stole it,' said the miser in the presence of
all the people; 'I acknowledge that I stole it, and that you earned it fairly.' Then the countryman
stopped his fiddle, and left the miser to take his place at the gallows. 'Now, child,' said
he to his own daughter, 'what will you have?' 'The first twig, dear father, that brushes against
your hat when you turn your face to come homewards,' said she. 'You, Ashputtel!' said she;
'you who have nothing to wear, no clothes at all, and who cannot even dance--you want to go
to the ball? Long before the end of the hour the work was quite done, and all flew out again
at the windows.

Then Ashputtel brought the dish to her mother, overjoyed at the thought that now she should
go to the ball. Truly, this is the way of mankind.

THE QUEEN BEE

Two kings' sons once upon a time went into the world to seek their fortunes; but they soon
fell into a wasteful foolish way of living, so that they could not return home again. Then
their brother, who was a little insignificant dwarf, went out to seek for his brothers: but
when he had found them they only laughed at him, to think that he, who was so young and simple,
should try to travel through the world, when they, who were so much wiser, had been unable
to get on. However, they all set out on their journey together, and came at last to an ant-hill.
The two elder brothers would have pulled it down, in order to see how the poor ants in their
fright would run about and carry off their eggs. But the little dwarf said, 'Let the poor things
enjoy themselves, I will not suffer you to trouble them.'

So on they went, and came to a lake where many many ducks were swimming about. The two brothers
wanted to catch two, and roast them. But the dwarf said, 'Let the poor things enjoy themselves,
you shall not kill them.' Next they came to a bees'-nest in a hollow tree, and there was so
much honey that it ran down the trunk; and the two brothers wanted to light a fire under the
tree and kill the bees, so as to get their honey. But the dwarf held them back, and said, 'Let
the pretty insects enjoy themselves, I cannot let you burn them.'

At length the three brothers came to a castle: and as they passed by the stables they saw fine
horses standing there, but all were of marble, and no man was to be seen.

He said nothing, but took hold of them and led them to a beautiful table covered with all sorts
of good things: and when they had eaten and drunk, he showed each of them to a bed-chamber.

The next morning he came to the eldest and took him to a marble table, where there were three
tablets, containing an account of the means by which the castle might be disenchanted. The
first tablet said: 'In the wood, under the moss, lie the thousand pearls belonging to the king's
daughter; they must all be found: and if one be missing by set of sun, he who seeks them will
be turned into marble.'

The eldest brother set out, and sought for the pearls the whole day: but the evening came,
and he had not found the first hundred: so he was turned into stone as the tablet had foretold.

The next day the second brother undertook the task; but he succeeded no better than the first;
for he could only find the second hundred of the pearls; and therefore he too was turned into
stone.

At last came the little dwarf's turn; and he looked in the moss; but it was so hard to find
the pearls, and the job was so tiresome!--so he sat down upon a stone and cried. And as he
sat there, the king of the ants (whose life he had saved) came to help him, with five thousand
ants; and it was not long before they had found all the pearls and laid them in a heap.

The second tablet said: 'The key of the princess's bed-chamber must be fished up out of the
lake.' And as the dwarf came to the brink of it, he saw the two ducks whose lives he had saved
swimming about; and they dived down and soon brought in the key from the bottom.

The third task was the hardest. It was to choose out the youngest and the best of the king's
three daughters. Now they were all beautiful, and all exactly alike: but he was told that the
eldest had eaten a piece of sugar, the next some sweet syrup, and the youngest a spoonful of
honey; so he was to guess which it was that had eaten the honey.

Then came the queen of the bees, who had been saved by the little dwarf from the fire, and
she tried the lips of all three; but at last she sat upon the lips of the one that had eaten
the honey: and so the dwarf knew which was the youngest. Thus the spell was broken, and all
who had been turned into stones awoke, and took their proper forms. And the dwarf married the
youngest and the best of the princesses, and was king after her father's death; but his two
brothers married the other two sisters.

THE ELVES AND THE SHOEMAKER

There was once a shoemaker, who worked very hard and was very honest: but still he could not
earn enough to live upon; and at last all he had in the world was gone, save just leather enough
to make one pair of shoes.

Then he cut his leather out, all ready to make up the next day, meaning to rise early in the
morning to his work. The good man knew not what to say or think at such an odd thing happening.
He looked at the workmanship; there was not one false stitch in the whole job; all was so neat
and true, that it was quite a masterpiece.

The same day a customer came in, and the shoes suited him so well that he willingly paid a
price higher than usual for them; and the poor shoemaker, with the money, bought leather enough
to make two pairs more. In the evening he cut out the work, and went to bed early, that he
might get up and begin betimes next day; but he was saved all the trouble, for when he got
up in the morning the work was done ready to his hand. Soon in came buyers, who paid him handsomely
for his goods, so that he bought leather enough for four pair more. He cut out the work again
overnight and found it done in the morning, as before; and so it went on for some time: what
was got ready in the evening was always done by daybreak, and the good man soon became thriving
and well off again.

One evening, about Christmas-time, as he and his wife were sitting over the fire chatting together,
he said to her, 'I should like to sit up and watch tonight, that we may see who it is that
comes and does my work for me.' The wife liked the thought; so they left a light burning, and
hid themselves in a corner of the room, behind a curtain that was hung up there, and watched
what would happen.

The next day the wife said to the shoemaker. 'These little wights have made us rich, and we
ought to be thankful to them, and do them a good turn if we can.

About midnight in they came, dancing and skipping, hopped round the room, and then went to
sit down to their work as usual; but when they saw the clothes lying for them, they laughed
and chuckled, and seemed mightily delighted.

The good couple saw them no more; but everything went well with them from that time forward,
as long as they lived.

THE JUNIPER-TREE

Long, long ago, some two thousand years or so, there lived a rich man with a good and beautiful
wife. They loved each other dearly, but sorrowed much that they had no children. So greatly
did they desire to have one, that the wife prayed for it day and night, but still they remained
childless.

In front of the house there was a court, in which grew a juniper-tree. One winter's day the
wife stood under the tree to peel some apples, and as she was peeling them, she cut her finger,
and the blood fell on the snow. 'Ah,' sighed the woman heavily, 'if I had but a child, as red
as blood and as white as snow,' and as she spoke the words, her heart grew light within her,
and it seemed to her that her wish was granted, and she returned to the house feeling glad
and comforted. A month passed, and the snow had all disappeared; then another month went by,
and all the earth was green. So the months followed one another, and first the trees budded
in the woods, and soon the green branches grew thickly intertwined, and then the blossoms began
to fall. Once again the wife stood under the juniper-tree, and it was so full of sweet scent
that her heart leaped for joy, and she was so overcome with her happiness, that she fell on
her knees. Presently the fruit became round and firm, and she was glad and at peace; but when
they were fully ripe she picked the berries and ate eagerly of them, and then she grew sad
and ill. A little while later she called her husband, and said to him, weeping. 'If I die,
bury me under the juniper-tree.' Then she felt comforted and happy again, and before another
month had passed she had a little child, and when she saw that it was as white as snow and
as red as blood, her joy was so great that she died.

Her husband buried her under the juniper-tree, and wept bitterly for her. By degrees, however,
his sorrow grew less, and although at times he still grieved over his loss, he was able to
go about as usual, and later on he married again.

He now had a little daughter born to him; the child of his first wife was a boy, who was as
red as blood and as white as snow. The mother loved her daughter very much, and when she looked
at her and then looked at the boy, it pierced her heart to think that he would always stand
in the way of her own child, and she was continually thinking how she could get the whole of
the property for her. This evil thought took possession of her more and more, and made her
behave very unkindly to the boy. She drove him from place to place with cuffings and buffetings,
so that the poor child went about in fear, and had no peace from the time he left school to
the time he went back.

One day the little daughter came running to her mother in the store-room, and said, 'Mother,
give me an apple.' 'Yes, my child,' said the wife, and she gave her a beautiful apple out of
the chest; the chest had a very heavy lid and a large iron lock.

'Mother,' said the little daughter again, 'may not brother have one too?' The mother was angry
at this, but she answered, 'Yes, when he comes out of school.'

Just then she looked out of the window and saw him coming, and it seemed as if an evil spirit
entered into her, for she snatched the apple out of her little daughter's hand, and said, 'You
shall not have one before your brother.' She threw the apple into the chest and shut it to.
The little boy now came in, and the evil spirit in the wife made her say kindly to him, 'My
son, will you have an apple?' but she gave him a wicked look. 'Mother,' said the boy, 'how
dreadful you look! Yes, give me an apple.' The thought came to her that she would kill him.
'Come with me,' she said, and she lifted up the lid of the chest; 'take one out for yourself.'
And as he bent over to do so, the evil spirit urged her, and crash! down went the lid, and
off went the little boy's head. Then she was overwhelmed with fear at the thought of what she
had done. 'If only I can prevent anyone knowing that I did it,' she thought. So she went upstairs
to her room, and took a white handkerchief out of her top drawer; then she set the boy's head
again on his shoulders, and bound it with the handkerchief so that nothing could be seen, and
placed him on a chair by the door with an apple in his hand. She was so terrified at this,
that she ran crying and screaming to her mother. 'Oh!' she said, 'I have knocked off brother's
head,' and then she wept and wept, and nothing would stop her.

'What have you done!' said her mother, 'but no one must know about it, so you must keep silence;
what is done can't be undone; we will make him into puddings.' And she took the little boy
and cut him up, made him into puddings, and put him in the pot. But Marleen stood looking on,
and wept and wept, and her tears fell into the pot, so that there was no need of salt.

Presently the father came home and sat down to his dinner; he asked, 'Where is my son?' The
mother said nothing, but gave him a large dish of black pudding, and Marleen still wept without
ceasing.

The father again asked, 'Where is my son?'

'Oh,' answered the wife, 'he is gone into the country to his mother's great uncle; he is going
to stay there some time.'

'What has he gone there for, and he never even said goodbye to me!'

'Well, he likes being there, and he told me he should be away quite six weeks; he is well looked
after there.'

'I feel very unhappy about it,' said the husband, 'in case it should not be all right, and
he ought to have said goodbye to me.'

With this he went on with his dinner, and said, 'Little Marleen, why do you weep? Brother will
soon be back.' Then he asked his wife for more pudding, and as he ate, he threw the bones under
the table.

Little Marleen went upstairs and took her best silk handkerchief out of her bottom drawer,
and in it she wrapped all the bones from under the table and carried them outside, and all
the time she did nothing but weep. Then she laid them in the green grass under the juniper-tree,
and she had no sooner done so, then all her sadness seemed to leave her, and she wept no more.
And now the juniper-tree began to move, and the branches waved backwards and forwards, first
away from one another, and then together again, as it might be someone clapping their hands
for joy. After this a mist came round the tree, and in the midst of it there was a burning
as of fire, and out of the fire there flew a beautiful bird, that rose high into the air, singing
magnificently, and when it could no more be seen, the juniper-tree stood there as before, and
the silk handkerchief and the bones were gone.

Little Marleen now felt as lighthearted and happy as if her brother were still alive, and she
went back to the house and sat down cheerfully to the table and ate.

The bird flew away and alighted on the house of a goldsmith and began to sing:

 'My mother killed her little son;
  My father grieved when I was gone;
  My sister loved me best of all;
  She laid her kerchief over me,
  And took my bones that they might lie
  Underneath the juniper-tree
  Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!'

The goldsmith was in his workshop making a gold chain, when he heard the song of the bird on
his roof. He thought it so beautiful that he got up and ran out, and as he crossed the threshold
he lost one of his slippers. But he ran on into the middle of the street, with a slipper on
one foot and a sock on the other; he still had on his apron, and still held the gold chain
and the pincers in his hands, and so he stood gazing up at the bird, while the sun came shining
brightly down on the street.

'Bird,' he said, 'how beautifully you sing! Sing me that song again.'

'Nay,' said the bird, 'I do not sing twice for nothing. Give that gold chain, and I will sing
it you again.'

'Here is the chain, take it,' said the goldsmith.

'Bird,' he said, 'how beautifully you sing!' Then he called through the door to his wife: 'Wife,
come out; here is a bird, come and look at it and hear how beautifully it sings.' Then he called
his daughter and the children, then the apprentices, girls and boys, and they all ran up the
street to look at the bird, and saw how splendid it was with its red and green feathers, and
its neck like burnished gold, and eyes like two bright stars in its head.

'Bird,' said the shoemaker, 'sing me that song again.'

'Nay,' answered the bird, 'I do not sing twice for nothing; you must give me something.'

'Wife,' said the man, 'go into the garret; on the upper shelf you will see a pair of red shoes;
bring them to me.' The wife went in and fetched the shoes.

'Bird,' he said, 'what a beautiful song that is you sing!

The father, the mother, and little Marleen were having their dinner.

'How lighthearted I feel,' said the father, 'so pleased and cheerful.'

'And I,' said the mother, 'I feel so uneasy, as if a heavy thunderstorm were coming.'

But little Marleen sat and wept and wept.

Then the bird came flying towards the house and settled on the roof.

'I do feel so happy,' said the father, 'and how beautifully the sun shines; I feel just as
if I were going to see an old friend again.'

'Ah!' said the wife, 'and I am so full of distress and uneasiness that my teeth chatter, and
I feel as if there were a fire in my veins,' and she tore open her dress; and all the while
little Marleen sat in the corner and wept, and the plate on her knees was wet with her tears.

The bird now flew to the juniper-tree and began singing:

 'My mother killed her little son;

the mother shut her eyes and her ears, that she might see and hear nothing, but there was a
roaring sound in her ears like that of a violent storm, and in her eyes a burning and flashing
like lightning:

  My father grieved when I was gone;

'Look, mother,' said the man, 'at the beautiful bird that is singing so magnificently; and
how warm and bright the sun is, and what a delicious scent of spice in the air!'

  My sister loved me best of all;

then little Marleen laid her head down on her knees and sobbed.

'I must go outside and see the bird nearer,' said the man.

'Ah, do not go!' cried the wife. 'I feel as if the whole house were in flames!'

But the man went out and looked at the bird.

He went inside, and said, 'See, what a splendid bird that is; he has given me this beautiful
gold chain, and looks so beautiful himself.'

But the wife was in such fear and trouble, that she fell on the floor, and her cap fell from
her head.

Then the bird began again:

 'My mother killed her little son;

'Ah me!' cried the wife, 'if I were but a thousand feet beneath the earth, that I might not
hear that song.'

  My father grieved when I was gone;

then the woman fell down again as if dead.

  My sister loved me best of all;

'Well,' said little Marleen, 'I will go out too and see if the bird will give me anything.'

So she went out.

  She laid her kerchief over me,
  And took my bones that they might lie

and he threw down the shoes to her,

  Underneath the juniper-tree
  Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!'

And she now felt quite happy and lighthearted; she put on the shoes and danced and jumped about
in them. 'I was so miserable,' she said, 'when I came out, but that has all passed away; that
is indeed a splendid bird, and he has given me a pair of red shoes.'

The wife sprang up, with her hair standing out from her head like flames of fire. 'Then I will
go out too,' she said, 'and see if it will lighten my misery, for I feel as if the world were
coming to an end.'

But as she crossed the threshold, crash! the bird threw the millstone down on her head, and
she was crushed to death.

The father and little Marleen heard the sound and ran out, but they only saw mist and flame
and fire rising from the spot, and when these had passed, there stood the little brother, and
he took the father and little Marleen by the hand; then they all three rejoiced, and went inside
together and sat down to their dinners and ate.

THE TURNIP

There were two brothers who were both soldiers; the one was rich and the other poor. The poor
man thought he would try to better himself; so, pulling off his red coat, he became a gardener,
and dug his ground well, and sowed turnips.

When the seed came up, there was one plant bigger than all the rest; and it kept getting larger
and larger, and seemed as if it would never cease growing; so that it might have been called
the prince of turnips for there never was such a one seen before, and never will again. At
last it was so big that it filled a cart, and two oxen could hardly draw it; and the gardener
knew not what in the world to do with it, nor whether it would be a blessing or a curse to
him. One day he said to himself, 'What shall I do with it? if I sell it, it will bring no more
than another; and for eating, the little turnips are better than this; the best thing perhaps
is to carry it and give it to the king as a mark of respect.'

Then he yoked his oxen, and drew the turnip to the court, and gave it to the king. 'What a
wonderful thing!' said the king; 'I have seen many strange things, but such a monster as this
I never saw. Where did you get the seed? or is it only your good luck? If so, you are a true
child of fortune.' 'Ah, no!' answered the gardener, 'I am no child of fortune; I am a poor
soldier, who never could get enough to live upon; so I laid aside my red coat, and set to work,
tilling the ground. I have a brother, who is rich, and your majesty knows him well, and all
the world knows him; but because I am poor, everybody forgets me.'

The king then took pity on him, and said, 'You shall be poor no longer. I will give you so
much that you shall be even richer than your brother.' Then he gave him gold and lands and
flocks, and made him so rich that his brother's fortune could not at all be compared with his.

When the brother heard of all this, and how a turnip had made the gardener so rich, he envied
him sorely, and bethought himself how he could contrive to get the same good fortune for himself.
However, he determined to manage more cleverly than his brother, and got together a rich present
of gold and fine horses for the king; and thought he must have a much larger gift in return;
for if his brother had received so much for only a turnip, what must his present be wroth?

The king took the gift very graciously, and said he knew not what to give in return more valuable
and wonderful than the great turnip; so the soldier was forced to put it into a cart, and drag
it home with him. When he reached home, he knew not upon whom to vent his rage and spite; and
at length wicked thoughts came into his head, and he resolved to kill his brother.

So he hired some villains to murder him; and having shown them where to lie in ambush, he went
to his brother, and said, 'Dear brother, I have found a hidden treasure; let us go and dig
it up, and share it between us.' The other had no suspicions of his roguery: so they went out
together, and as they were travelling along, the murderers rushed out upon him, bound him,
and were going to hang him on a tree.

But whilst they were getting all ready, they heard the trampling of a horse at a distance,
which so frightened them that they pushed their prisoner neck and shoulders together into a
sack, and swung him up by a cord to the tree, where they left him dangling, and ran away. Meantime
he worked and worked away, till he made a hole large enough to put out his head.

When the horseman came up, he proved to be a student, a merry fellow, who was journeying along
on his nag, and singing as he went. As soon as the man in the sack saw him passing under the
tree, he cried out, 'Good morning! good morning to thee, my friend!' The student looked about
everywhere; and seeing no one, and not knowing where the voice came from, cried out, 'Who calls
me?'

Then the man in the tree answered, 'Lift up thine eyes, for behold here I sit in the sack of
wisdom; here have I, in a short time, learned great and wondrous things. Compared to this seat,
all the learning of the schools is as empty air. A little longer, and I shall know all that
man can know, and shall come forth wiser than the wisest of mankind. Here I discern the signs
and motions of the heavens and the stars; the laws that control the winds; the number of the
sands on the seashore; the healing of the sick; the virtues of all simples, of birds, and of
precious stones. Wert thou but once here, my friend, though wouldst feel and own the power
of knowledge.

The student listened to all this and wondered much; at last he said, 'Blessed be the day and
hour when I found you; cannot you contrive to let me into the sack for a little while?' Then
the other answered, as if very unwillingly, 'A little space I may allow thee to sit here, if
thou wilt reward me well and entreat me kindly; but thou must tarry yet an hour below, till
I have learnt some little matters that are yet unknown to me.'

So the student sat himself down and waited a while; but the time hung heavy upon him, and he
begged earnestly that he might ascend forthwith, for his thirst for knowledge was great. Then
the other pretended to give way, and said, 'Thou must let the sack of wisdom descend, by untying
yonder cord, and then thou shalt enter.' So the student let him down, opened the sack, and
set him free. 'Now then,' cried he, 'let me ascend quickly.' As he began to put himself into
the sack heels first, 'Wait a while,' said the gardener, 'that is not the way.' Then he pushed
him in head first, tied up the sack, and soon swung up the searcher after wisdom dangling in
the air. 'How is it with thee, friend?' said he, 'dost thou not feel that wisdom comes unto
thee? Rest there in peace, till thou art a wiser man than thou wert.'

So saying, he trotted off on the student's nag, and left the poor fellow to gather wisdom till
somebody should come and let him down.

CLEVER HANS

The mother of Hans said: 'Whither away, Hans?' Hans answered: 'To Gretel.' 'Behave well, Hans.'
'Oh, I'll behave well. Goodbye, mother.' 'Goodbye, Hans.' Hans comes to Gretel. 'Good day,
Gretel.' 'Good day, Hans. What do you bring that is good?' 'I bring nothing. I want to have
something given to me.' Gretel presents Hans with a knife. What good thing do you bring?' 'I
bring nothing, I want something given me.' Gretel presents Hans with a young goat. Then Gretel
became angry, tore herself loose and ran away, and was no longer the bride of Hans. How is
all with you? At last he said: 'Oh, you wretched beard-cleaner, you piebald fool, you hungry
mouse-hunter, what can you be thinking of? Have you the cheek to ask how I am getting on? What
have you learnt? Begin by learning some craft or another, and see how you can get on.' So the
four brothers took their walking-sticks in their hands, and their little bundles on their shoulders,
and after bidding their father goodbye, went all out at the gate together. When they had got
on some way they came to four crossways, each leading to a different country. Then the eldest
said, 'Here we must part; but this day four years we will come back to this spot, and in the
meantime each must try what he can do for himself.'

So each brother went his way; and as the eldest was hastening on a man met him, and asked him
where he was going, and what he wanted. 'I am going to try my luck in the world, and should
like to begin by learning some art or trade,' answered he. 'Then,' said the man, 'go with me,
and I will teach you to become the cunningest thief that ever was.' 'No,' said the other, 'that
is not an honest calling, and what can one look to earn by it in the end but the gallows?'
'Oh!' said the man, 'you need not fear the gallows; for I will only teach you to steal what
will be fair game: I meddle with nothing but what no one else can get or care anything about,
and where no one can find you out.' So the young man agreed to follow his trade, and he soon
showed himself so clever, that nothing could escape him that he had once set his mind upon.

The second brother also met a man, who, when he found out what he was setting out upon, asked
him what craft he meant to follow. 'I do not know yet,' said he. 'Then come with me, and be
a star-gazer. It is a noble art, for nothing can be hidden from you, when once you understand
the stars.' The plan pleased him much, and he soon became such a skilful star-gazer, that when
he had served out his time, and wanted to leave his master, he gave him a glass, and said,
'With this you can see all that is passing in the sky and on earth, and nothing can be hidden
from you.'

The third brother met a huntsman, who took him with him, and taught him so well all that belonged
to hunting, that he became very clever in the craft of the woods; and when he left his master
he gave him a bow, and said, 'Whatever you shoot at with this bow you will be sure to hit.'

The youngest brother likewise met a man who asked him what he wished to do. 'Would not you
like,' said he, 'to be a tailor?' 'Oh, no!' said the young man; 'sitting cross-legged from
morning to night, working backwards and forwards with a needle and goose, will never suit me.'
'Oh!' answered the man, 'that is not my sort of tailoring; come with me, and you will learn
quite another kind of craft from that.' Not knowing what better to do, he came into the plan,
and learnt tailoring from the beginning; and when he left his master, he gave him a needle,
and said, 'You can sew anything with this, be it as soft as an egg or as hard as steel; and
the joint will be so fine that no seam will be seen.'

After the space of four years, at the time agreed upon, the four brothers met at the four cross-roads;
and having welcomed each other, set off towards their father's home, where they told him all
that had happened to them, and how each had learned some craft.

Then, one day, as they were sitting before the house under a very high tree, the father said,
'I should like to try what each of you can do in this way.' So he looked up, and said to the
second son, 'At the top of this tree there is a chaffinch's nest; tell me how many eggs there
are in it.' The star-gazer took his glass, looked up, and said, 'Five.' 'Now,' said the father
to the eldest son, 'take away the eggs without letting the bird that is sitting upon them and
hatching them know anything of what you are doing.' So the cunning thief climbed up the tree,
and brought away to his father the five eggs from under the bird; and it never saw or felt
what he was doing, but kept sitting on at its ease. Then the father took the eggs, and put
one on each corner of the table, and the fifth in the middle, and said to the huntsman, 'Cut
all the eggs in two pieces at one shot.' The huntsman took up his bow, and at one shot struck
all the five eggs as his father wished.

'Now comes your turn,' said he to the young tailor; 'sew the eggs and the young birds in them
together again, so neatly that the shot shall have done them no harm.' Then the tailor took
his needle, and sewed the eggs as he was told; and when he had done, the thief was sent to
take them back to the nest, and put them under the bird without its knowing it. Then she went
on sitting, and hatched them: and in a few days they crawled out, and had only a little red
streak across their necks, where the tailor had sewn them together.

'Well done, sons!' said the old man; 'you have made good use of your time, and learnt something
worth the knowing; but I am sure I do not know which ought to have the prize. Oh, that a time
might soon come for you to turn your skill to some account!'

Not long after this there was a great bustle in the country; for the king's daughter had been
carried off by a mighty dragon, and the king mourned over his loss day and night, and made
it known that whoever brought her back to him should have her for a wife. Then the four brothers
said to each other, 'Here is a chance for us; let us try what we can do.' And they agreed to
see whether they could not set the princess free. 'I will soon find out where she is, however,'
said the star-gazer, as he looked through his glass; and he soon cried out, 'I see her afar
off, sitting upon a rock in the sea, and I can spy the dragon close by, guarding her.' Then
he went to the king, and asked for a ship for himself and his brothers; and they sailed together
over the sea, till they came to the right place. There they found the princess sitting, as
the star-gazer had said, on the rock; and the dragon was lying asleep, with his head upon her
lap. 'I dare not shoot at him,' said the huntsman, 'for I should kill the beautiful young lady
also.' 'Then I will try my skill,' said the thief, and went and stole her away from under the
dragon, so quietly and gently that the beast did not know it, but went on snoring.

Then away they hastened with her full of joy in their boat towards the ship; but soon came
the dragon roaring behind them through the air; for he awoke and missed the princess. But when
he got over the boat, and wanted to pounce upon them and carry off the princess, the huntsman
took up his bow and shot him straight through the heart so that he fell down dead. They were
still not safe; for he was such a great beast that in his fall he overset the boat, and they
had to swim in the open sea upon a few planks. So the tailor took his needle, and with a few
large stitches put some of the planks together; and he sat down upon these, and sailed about
and gathered up all pieces of the boat; and then tacked them together so quickly that the boat
was soon ready, and they then reached the ship and got home safe.

When they had brought home the princess to her father, there was great rejoicing; and he said
to the four brothers, 'One of you shall marry her, but you must settle amongst yourselves which
it is to be.' Then there arose a quarrel between them; and the star-gazer said, 'If I had not
found the princess out, all your skill would have been of no use; therefore she ought to be
mine.' 'Your seeing her would have been of no use,' said the thief, 'if I had not taken her
away from the dragon; therefore she ought to be mine.' 'No, she is mine,' said the huntsman;
'for if I had not killed the dragon, he would, after all, have torn you and the princess into
pieces.' 'And if I had not sewn the boat together again,' said the tailor, 'you would all have
been drowned, therefore she is mine.' Then the king put in a word, and said, 'Each of you is
right; and as all cannot have the young lady, the best way is for neither of you to have her:
for the truth is, there is somebody she likes a great deal better. But to make up for your
loss, I will give each of you, as a reward for his skill, half a kingdom.' So the brothers
agreed that this plan would be much better than either quarrelling or marrying a lady who had
no mind to have them. And the king then gave to each half a kingdom, as he had said; and they
lived very happily the rest of their days, and took good care of their father; and somebody
took better care of the young lady, than to let either the dragon or one of the craftsmen have
her again. So he kissed all three, and bid them goodbye. This grieved him very much, for Lily
was his dearest child; and as he was journeying home, thinking what he should bring her, he
came to a fine castle; and around the castle was a garden, in one half of which it seemed to
be summer-time and in the other half winter. On one side the finest flowers were in full bloom,
and on the other everything looked dreary and buried in the snow. 'A lucky hit!' said he, as
he called to his servant, and told him to go to a beautiful bed of roses that was there, and
bring him away one of the finest flowers.

But she comforted him, and said, 'Dear father, the word you have given must be kept; I will
go to the lion, and soothe him: perhaps he will let me come safe home again.'

The next morning she asked the way she was to go, and took leave of her father, and went forth
with a bold heart into the wood. But the lion was an enchanted prince. By day he and all his
court were lions, but in the evening they took their right forms again. And when Lily came
to the castle, he welcomed her so courteously that she agreed to marry him. The wedding-feast
was held, and they lived happily together a long time. The prince was only to be seen as soon
as evening came, and then he held his court; but every morning he left his bride, and went
away by himself, she knew not whither, till the night came again.

After some time he said to her, 'Tomorrow there will be a great feast in your father's house,
for your eldest sister is to be married; and if you wish to go and visit her my lions shall
lead you thither.' Then she rejoiced much at the thoughts of seeing her father once more, and
set out with the lions; and everyone was overjoyed to see her, for they had thought her dead
long since. But she told them how happy she was, and stayed till the feast was over, and then
went back to the wood.

Her second sister was soon after married, and when Lily was asked to go to the wedding, she
said to the prince, 'I will not go alone this time--you must go with me.' But he would not,
and said that it would be a very hazardous thing; for if the least ray of the torch-light should
fall upon him his enchantment would become still worse, for he should be changed into a dove,
and be forced to wander about the world for seven long years. However, she gave him no rest,
and said she would take care no light should fall upon him. So at last they set out together,
and took with them their little child; and she chose a large hall with thick walls for him
to sit in while the wedding-torches were lighted; but, unluckily, no one saw that there was
a crack in the door. Then the wedding was held with great pomp, but as the train came from
the church, and passed with the torches before the hall, a very small ray of light fell upon
the prince. In a moment he disappeared, and when his wife came in and looked for him, she found
only a white dove; and it said to her, 'Seven years must I fly up and down over the face of
the earth, but every now and then I will let fall a white feather, that will show you the way
I am going; follow it, and at last you may overtake and set me free.'

This said, he flew out at the door, and poor Lily followed; and every now and then a white
feather fell, and showed her the way she was to journey. Thus she went roving on through the
wide world, and looked neither to the right hand nor to the left, nor took any rest, for seven
years. Then she began to be glad, and thought to herself that the time was fast coming when
all her troubles should end; yet repose was still far off, for one day as she was travelling
on she missed the white feather, and when she lifted up her eyes she could nowhere see the
dove. Go to the Red Sea; on the right shore stand many rods--count them, and when thou comest
to the eleventh, break it off, and smite the dragon with it; and so the lion will have the
victory, and both of them will appear to you in their own forms. Then look round and thou wilt
see a griffin, winged like bird, sitting by the Red Sea; jump on to his back with thy beloved
one as quickly as possible, and he will carry you over the waters to your home. I will also
give thee this nut,' continued the night-wind. 'When you are half-way over, throw it down,
and out of the waters will immediately spring up a high nut-tree on which the griffin will
be able to rest, otherwise he would not have the strength to bear you the whole way; if, therefore,
thou dost forget to throw down the nut, he will let you both fall into the sea.'

So our poor wanderer went forth, and found all as the night-wind had said; and she plucked
the eleventh rod, and smote the dragon, and the lion forthwith became a prince, and the dragon
a princess again. But no sooner was the princess released from the spell, than she seized the
prince by the arm and sprang on to the griffin's back, and went off carrying the prince away
with her.

Thus the unhappy traveller was again forsaken and forlorn; but she took heart and said, 'As
far as the wind blows, and so long as the cock crows, I will journey on, till I find him once
again.' She went on for a long, long way, till at length she came to the castle whither the
princess had carried the prince; and there was a feast got ready, and she heard that the wedding
was about to be held. 'Heaven aid me now!' said she; and she took the casket that the sun had
given her, and found that within it lay a dress as dazzling as the sun itself. So she put it
on, and went into the palace, and all the people gazed upon her; and the dress pleased the
bride so much that she asked whether it was to be sold. 'Not for gold and silver.' said she,
'but for flesh and blood.' The princess asked what she meant, and she said, 'Let me speak with
the bridegroom this night in his chamber, and I will give thee the dress.' At last the princess
agreed, but she told her chamberlain to give the prince a sleeping draught, that he might not
hear or see her. When evening came, and the prince had fallen asleep, she was led into his
chamber, and she sat herself down at his feet, and said: 'I have followed thee seven years.
I have been to the sun, the moon, and the night-wind, to seek thee, and at last I have helped
thee to overcome the dragon. Wilt thou then forget me quite?' But the prince all the time slept
so soundly, that her voice only passed over him, and seemed like the whistling of the wind
among the fir-trees.

Then poor Lily was led away, and forced to give up the golden dress; and when she saw that
there was no help for her, she went out into a meadow, and sat herself down and wept. But as
she sat she bethought herself of the egg that the moon had given her; and when she broke it,
there ran out a hen and twelve chickens of pure gold, that played about, and then nestled under
the old one's wings, so as to form the most beautiful sight in the world. And she rose up and
drove them before her, till the bride saw them from her window, and was so pleased that she
came forth and asked her if she would sell the brood. 'Not for gold or silver, but for flesh
and blood: let me again this evening speak with the bridegroom in his chamber, and I will give
thee the whole brood.'

Then the princess thought to betray her as before, and agreed to what she asked: but when the
prince went to his chamber he asked the chamberlain why the wind had whistled so in the night.
And the chamberlain told him all--how he had given him a sleeping draught, and how a poor maiden
had come and spoken to him in his chamber, and was to come again that night. Then the prince
took care to throw away the sleeping draught; and when Lily came and began again to tell him
what woes had befallen her, and how faithful and true to him she had been, he knew his beloved
wife's voice, and sprang up, and said, 'You have awakened me as from a dream, for the strange
princess had thrown a spell around me, so that I had altogether forgotten you; but Heaven hath
sent you to me in a lucky hour.'

And they stole away out of the palace by night unawares, and seated themselves on the griffin,
who flew back with them over the Red Sea. When they were half-way across Lily let the nut fall
into the water, and immediately a large nut-tree arose from the sea, whereon the griffin rested
for a while, and then carried them safely home. There they found their child, now grown up
to be comely and fair; and after all their troubles they lived happily together to the end
of their days.

THE FOX AND THE HORSE

A farmer had a horse that had been an excellent faithful servant to him: but he was now grown
too old to work; so the farmer would give him nothing more to eat, and said, 'I want you no
longer, so take yourself off out of my stable; I shall not take you back again until you are
stronger than a lion.' Then he opened the door and turned him adrift.

The poor horse was very melancholy, and wandered up and down in the wood, seeking some little
shelter from the cold wind and rain. Presently a fox met him: 'What's the matter, my friend?'
said he, 'why do you hang down your head and look so lonely and woe-begone?' 'Ah!' replied
the horse, 'justice and avarice never dwell in one house; my master has forgotten all that
I have done for him so many years, and because I can no longer work he has turned me adrift,
and says unless I become stronger than a lion he will not take me back again; what chance can
I have of that? he knows I have none, or he would not talk so.'

However, the fox bid him be of good cheer, and said, 'I will help you; lie down there, stretch
yourself out quite stiff, and pretend to be dead.' The horse did as he was told, and the fox
went straight to the lion who lived in a cave close by, and said to him, 'A little way off
lies a dead horse; come with me and you may make an excellent meal of his carcase.' The lion
was greatly pleased, and set off immediately; and when they came to the horse, the fox said,
'You will not be able to eat him comfortably here; I'll tell you what--I will tie you fast
to his tail, and then you can draw him to your den, and eat him at your leisure.'

This advice pleased the lion, so he laid himself down quietly for the fox to make him fast
to the horse. But the fox managed to tie his legs together and bound all so hard and fast that
with all his strength he could not set himself free. When the work was done, the fox clapped
the horse on the shoulder, and said, 'Jip! Dobbin! Jip!' Then up he sprang, and moved off,
dragging the lion behind him. The beast began to roar and bellow, till all the birds of the
wood flew away for fright; but the horse let him sing on, and made his way quietly over the
fields to his master's house.

'Here he is, master,' said he, 'I have got the better of him': and when the farmer saw his
old servant, his heart relented, and he said. 'Thou shalt stay in thy stable and be well taken
care of.' And so the poor old horse had plenty to eat, and lived--till he died. Nor was it
long before the little man reappeared. 'What is it?' asked the king.

THE RAVEN

There was once a queen who had a little daughter, still too young to run alone. One day the
child was very troublesome, and the mother could not quiet it, do what she would. She grew
impatient, and seeing the ravens flying round the castle, she opened the window, and said:
'I wish you were a raven and would fly away, then I should have a little peace.' Scarcely were
the words out of her mouth, when the child in her arms was turned into a raven, and flew away
from her through the open window. The bird took its flight to a dark wood and remained there
for a long time, and meanwhile the parents could hear nothing of their child.

Long after this, a man was making his way through the wood when he heard a raven calling, and
he followed the sound of the voice. As he drew near, the raven said, 'I am by birth a king's
daughter, but am now under the spell of some enchantment; you can, however, set me free.' 'What
am I to do?' he asked. She replied, 'Go farther into the wood until you come to a house, wherein
lives an old woman; she will offer you food and drink, but you must not take of either; if
you do, you will fall into a deep sleep, and will not be able to help me. In the garden behind
the house is a large tan-heap, and on that you must stand and watch for me. I shall drive there
in my carriage at two o'clock in the afternoon for three successive days; the first day it
will be drawn by four white, the second by four chestnut, and the last by four black horses;
but if you fail to keep awake and I find you sleeping, I shall not be set free.'

The man promised to do all that she wished, but the raven said, 'Alas! I know even now that
you will take something from the woman and be unable to save me.' The man assured her again
that he would on no account touch a thing to eat or drink.

When he came to the house and went inside, the old woman met him, and said, 'Poor man! how
tired you are! Come in and rest and let me give you something to eat and drink.'

'No,' answered the man, 'I will neither eat not drink.'

But she would not leave him alone, and urged him saying, 'If you will not eat anything, at
least you might take a draught of wine; one drink counts for nothing,' and at last he allowed
himself to be persuaded, and drank.

As it drew towards the appointed hour, he went outside into the garden and mounted the tan-heap
to await the raven. Suddenly a feeling of fatigue came over him, and unable to resist it, he
lay down for a little while, fully determined, however, to keep awake; but in another minute
his eyes closed of their own accord, and he fell into such a deep sleep, that all the noises
in the world would not have awakened him. At two o'clock the raven came driving along, drawn
by her four white horses; but even before she reached the spot, she said to herself, sighing,
'I know he has fallen asleep.' When she entered the garden, there she found him as she had
feared, lying on the tan-heap, fast asleep. She got out of her carriage and went to him; she
called him and shook him, but it was all in vain, he still continued sleeping.

The next day at noon, the old woman came to him again with food and drink which he at first
refused. At last, overcome by her persistent entreaties that he would take something, he lifted
the glass and drank again.

Towards two o'clock he went into the garden and on to the tan-heap to watch for the raven.
He had not been there long before he began to feel so tired that his limbs seemed hardly able
to support him, and he could not stand upright any longer; so again he lay down and fell fast
asleep. As the raven drove along her four chestnut horses, she said sorrowfully to herself,
'I know he has fallen asleep.' She went as before to look for him, but he slept, and it was
impossible to awaken him.

The following day the old woman said to him, 'What is this? You are not eating or drinking
anything, do you want to kill yourself?'

He answered, 'I may not and will not either eat or drink.'

But she put down the dish of food and the glass of wine in front of him, and when he smelt
the wine, he was unable to resist the temptation, and took a deep draught.

When the hour came round again he went as usual on to the tan-heap in the garden to await the
king's daughter, but he felt even more overcome with weariness than on the two previous days,
and throwing himself down, he slept like a log. At two o'clock the raven could be seen approaching,
and this time her coachman and everything about her, as well as her horses, were black.

She was sadder than ever as she drove along, and said mournfully, 'I know he has fallen asleep,
and will not be able to set me free.' She found him sleeping heavily, and all her efforts to
awaken him were of no avail. Then she placed beside him a loaf, and some meat, and a flask
of wine, of such a kind, that however much he took of them, they would never grow less. After
that she drew a gold ring, on which her name was engraved, off her finger, and put it upon
one of his. Finally, she laid a letter near him, in which, after giving him particulars of
the food and drink she had left for him, she finished with the following words: 'I see that
as long as you remain here you will never be able to set me free; if, however, you still wish
to do so, come to the golden castle of Stromberg; this is well within your power to accomplish.'
She then returned to her carriage and drove to the golden castle of Stromberg.

When the man awoke and found that he had been sleeping, he was grieved at heart, and said,
'She has no doubt been here and driven away again, and it is now too late for me to save her.'
Then his eyes fell on the things which were lying beside him; he read the letter, and knew
from it all that had happened. He rose up without delay, eager to start on his way and to reach
the castle of Stromberg, but he had no idea in which direction he ought to go. He travelled
about a long time in search of it and came at last to a dark forest, through which he went
on walking for fourteen days and still could not find a way out. Once more the night came on,
and worn out he lay down under a bush and fell asleep. Again the next day he pursued his way
through the forest, and that evening, thinking to rest again, he lay down as before, but he
heard such a howling and wailing that he found it impossible to sleep. He waited till it was
darker and people had begun to light up their houses, and then seeing a little glimmer ahead
of him, he went towards it.

He found that the light came from a house which looked smaller than it really was, from the
contrast of its height with that of an immense giant who stood in front of it. He thought to
himself, 'If the giant sees me going in, my life will not be worth much.' However, after a
while he summoned up courage and went forward. When the giant saw him, he called out, 'It is
lucky for that you have come, for I have not had anything to eat for a long time. I can have
you now for my supper.' 'I would rather you let that alone,' said the man, 'for I do not willingly
give myself up to be eaten; if you are wanting food I have enough to satisfy your hunger.'
'If that is so,' replied the giant, 'I will leave you in peace; I only thought of eating you
because I had nothing else.'

So they went indoors together and sat down, and the man brought out the bread, meat, and wine,
which although he had eaten and drunk of them, were still unconsumed. The giant was pleased
with the good cheer, and ate and drank to his heart's content. When he had finished his supper
the man asked him if he could direct him to the castle of Stromberg. The giant said, 'I will
look on my map; on it are marked all the towns, villages, and houses.' So he fetched his map,
and looked for the castle, but could not find it. 'Never mind,' he said, 'I have larger maps
upstairs in the cupboard, we will look on those,' but they searched in vain, for the castle
was not marked even on these. The man now thought he should like to continue his journey, but
the giant begged him to remain for a day or two longer until the return of his brother, who
was away in search of provisions. When the brother came home, they asked him about the castle
of Stromberg, and he told them he would look on his own maps as soon as he had eaten and appeased
his hunger. Accordingly, when he had finished his supper, they all went up together to his
room and looked through his maps, but the castle was not to be found. Then he fetched other
older maps, and they went on looking for the castle until at last they found it, but it was
many thousand miles away. 'How shall I be able to get there?' asked the man. 'I have two hours
to spare,' said the giant, 'and I will carry you into the neighbourhood of the castle; I must
then return to look after the child who is in our care.'

The giant, thereupon, carried the man to within about a hundred leagues of the castle, where
he left him, saying, 'You will be able to walk the remainder of the way yourself.' The man
journeyed on day and night till he reached the golden castle of Stromberg. He found it situated,
however, on a glass mountain, and looking up from the foot he saw the enchanted maiden drive
round her castle and then go inside. He was overjoyed to see her, and longed to get to the
top of the mountain, but the sides were so slippery that every time he attempted to climb he
fell back again. When he saw that it was impossible to reach her, he was greatly grieved, and
said to himself, 'I will remain here and wait for her,' so he built himself a little hut, and
there he sat and watched for a whole year, and every day he saw the king's daughter driving
round her castle, but still was unable to get nearer to her.

Looking out from his hut one day he saw three robbers fighting and he called out to them, 'God
be with you.' They stopped when they heard the call, but looking round and seeing nobody, they
went on again with their fighting, which now became more furious. 'God be with you,' he cried
again, and again they paused and looked about, but seeing no one went back to their fighting.
A third time he called out, 'God be with you,' and then thinking he should like to know the
cause of dispute between the three men, he went out and asked them why they were fighting so
angrily with one another. One of them said that he had found a stick, and that he had but to
strike it against any door through which he wished to pass, and it immediately flew open. Another
told him that he had found a cloak which rendered its wearer invisible; and the third had caught
a horse which would carry its rider over any obstacle, and even up the glass mountain. They
had been unable to decide whether they would keep together and have the things in common, or
whether they would separate. On hearing this, the man said, 'I will give you something in exchange
for those three things; not money, for that I have not got, but something that is of far more
value. I must first, however, prove whether all you have told me about your three things is
true.' The robbers, therefore, made him get on the horse, and handed him the stick and the
cloak, and when he had put this round him he was no longer visible. Then he fell upon them
with the stick and beat them one after another, crying, 'There, you idle vagabonds, you have
got what you deserve; are you satisfied now!'

After this he rode up the glass mountain. When he reached the gate of the castle, he found
it closed, but he gave it a blow with his stick, and it flew wide open at once and he passed
through. He mounted the steps and entered the room where the maiden was sitting, with a golden
goblet full of wine in front of her. She could not see him for he still wore his cloak. He
took the ring which she had given him off his finger, and threw it into the goblet, so that
it rang as it touched the bottom. 'That is my own ring,' she exclaimed, 'and if that is so
the man must also be here who is coming to set me free.'

She sought for him about the castle, but could find him nowhere. Meanwhile he had gone outside
again and mounted his horse and thrown off the cloak. When therefore she came to the castle
gate she saw him, and cried aloud for joy. Thereupon Dummling asked to have her for his wife;
but the king did not like the son-in-law, and made all manner of excuses and said he must first
produce a man who could drink a cellarful of wine. Dummling thought of the little grey man,
who could certainly help him; so he went into the forest, and in the same place where he had
felled the tree, he saw a man sitting, who had a very sorrowful face. Dummling asked him what
he was taking to heart so sorely, and he answered: 'I have such a great thirst and cannot quench
it; cold water I cannot stand, a barrel of wine I have just emptied, but that to me is like
a drop on a hot stone!'

'There, I can help you,' said Dummling, 'just come with me and you shall be satisfied.'

He led him into the king's cellar, and the man bent over the huge barrels, and drank and drank
till his loins hurt, and before the day was out he had emptied all the barrels. Then Dummling
asked once more for his bride, but the king was vexed that such an ugly fellow, whom everyone
called Dummling, should take away his daughter, and he made a new condition; he must first
find a man who could eat a whole mountain of bread. Dummling did not think long, but went straight
into the forest, where in the same place there sat a man who was tying up his body with a strap,
and making an awful face, and saying: 'I have eaten a whole ovenful of rolls, but what good
is that when one has such a hunger as I? My stomach remains empty, and I must tie myself up
if I am not to die of hunger.'

At this Dummling was glad, and said: 'Get up and come with me; you shall eat yourself full.'
He led him to the king's palace where all the flour in the whole Kingdom was collected, and
from it he caused a huge mountain of bread to be baked. The man from the forest stood before
it, began to eat, and by the end of one day the whole mountain had vanished. Then Dummling
for the third time asked for his bride; but the king again sought a way out, and ordered a
ship which could sail on land and on water. 'As soon as you come sailing back in it,' said
he, 'you shall have my daughter for wife.'

Dummling went straight into the forest, and there sat the little grey man to whom he had given
his cake. When he heard what Dummling wanted, he said: 'Since you have given me to eat and
to drink, I will give you the ship; and I do all this because you once were kind to me.' Then
he gave him the ship which could sail on land and water, and when the king saw that, he could
no longer prevent him from having his daughter.

     [*] Simpleton

THE WATER OF LIFE

Long before you or I were born, there reigned, in a country a great way off, a king who had
three sons. This king once fell very ill--so ill that nobody thought he could live. His sons
were very much grieved at their father's sickness; and as they were walking together very mournfully
in the garden of the palace, a little old man met them and asked what was the matter. They
told him that their father was very ill, and that they were afraid nothing could save him.
'I know what would,' said the little old man; 'it is the Water of Life. If he could have a
draught of it he would be well again; but it is very hard to get.' Then the eldest son said,
'I will soon find it': and he went to the sick king, and begged that he might go in search
of the Water of Life, as it was the only thing that could save him. 'No,' said the king. 'I
had rather die than place you in such great danger as you must meet with in your journey.'
But he begged so hard that the king let him go; and the prince thought to himself, 'If I bring
my father this water, he will make me sole heir to his kingdom.'

Then he set out: and when he had gone on his way some time he came to a deep valley, overhung
with rocks and woods; and as he looked around, he saw standing above him on one of the rocks
a little ugly dwarf, with a sugarloaf cap and a scarlet cloak; and the dwarf called to him
and said, 'Prince, whither so fast?' 'What is that to thee, you ugly imp?' said the prince
haughtily, and rode on.

But the dwarf was enraged at his behaviour, and laid a fairy spell of ill-luck upon him; so
that as he rode on the mountain pass became narrower and narrower, and at last the way was
so straitened that he could not go to step forward: and when he thought to have turned his
horse round and go back the way he came, he heard a loud laugh ringing round him, and found
that the path was closed behind him, so that he was shut in all round. He next tried to get
off his horse and make his way on foot, but again the laugh rang in his ears, and he found
himself unable to move a step, and thus he was forced to abide spellbound.

Meantime the old king was lingering on in daily hope of his son's return, till at last the
second son said, 'Father, I will go in search of the Water of Life.' For he thought to himself,
'My brother is surely dead, and the kingdom will fall to me if I find the water.' The king
was at first very unwilling to let him go, but at last yielded to his wish. So he set out and
followed the same road which his brother had done, and met with the same elf, who stopped him
at the same spot in the mountains, saying, as before, 'Prince, prince, whither so fast?' 'Mind
your own affairs, busybody!' said the prince scornfully, and rode on.

But the dwarf put the same spell upon him as he put on his elder brother, and he, too, was
at last obliged to take up his abode in the heart of the mountains. Thus it is with proud silly
people, who think themselves above everyone else, and are too proud to ask or take advice.

When the second prince had thus been gone a long time, the youngest son said he would go and
search for the Water of Life, and trusted he should soon be able to make his father well again.
So he set out, and the dwarf met him too at the same spot in the valley, among the mountains,
and said, 'Prince, whither so fast?' And the prince said, 'I am going in search of the Water
of Life, because my father is ill, and like to die: can you help me? Pray be kind, and aid
me if you can!' 'Do you know where it is to be found?' asked the dwarf. 'No,' said the prince,
'I do not. Pray tell me if you know.' 'Then as you have spoken to me kindly, and are wise enough
to seek for advice, I will tell you how and where to go. The water you seek springs from a
well in an enchanted castle; and, that you may be able to reach it in safety, I will give you
an iron wand and two little loaves of bread; strike the iron door of the castle three times
with the wand, and it will open: two hungry lions will be lying down inside gaping for their
prey, but if you throw them the bread they will let you pass; then hasten on to the well, and
take some of the Water of Life before the clock strikes twelve; for if you tarry longer the
door will shut upon you for ever.'

Then the prince thanked his little friend with the scarlet cloak for his friendly aid, and
took the wand and the bread, and went travelling on and on, over sea and over land, till he
came to his journey's end, and found everything to be as the dwarf had told him. The door flew
open at the third stroke of the wand, and when the lions were quieted he went on through the
castle and came at length to a beautiful hall. Around it he saw several knights sitting in
a trance; then he pulled off their rings and put them on his own fingers. In another room he
saw on a table a sword and a loaf of bread, which he also took. Further on he came to a room
where a beautiful young lady sat upon a couch; and she welcomed him joyfully, and said, if
he would set her free from the spell that bound her, the kingdom should be his, if he would
come back in a year and marry her. Then she told him that the well that held the Water of Life
was in the palace gardens; and bade him make haste, and draw what he wanted before the clock
struck twelve.

He walked on; and as he walked through beautiful gardens he came to a delightful shady spot
in which stood a couch; and he thought to himself, as he felt tired, that he would rest himself
for a while, and gaze on the lovely scenes around him. So he laid himself down, and sleep fell
upon him unawares, so that he did not wake up till the clock was striking a quarter to twelve.
Then he sprang from the couch dreadfully frightened, ran to the well, filled a cup that was
standing by him full of water, and hastened to get away in time. Just as he was going out of
the iron door it struck twelve, and the door fell so quickly upon him that it snapped off a
piece of his heel.

When he found himself safe, he was overjoyed to think that he had got the Water of Life; and
as he was going on his way homewards, he passed by the little dwarf, who, when he saw the sword
and the loaf, said, 'You have made a noble prize; with the sword you can at a blow slay whole
armies, and the bread will never fail you.' Then the prince thought to himself, 'I cannot go
home to my father without my brothers'; so he said, 'My dear friend, cannot you tell me where
my two brothers are, who set out in search of the Water of Life before me, and never came back?'
'I have shut them up by a charm between two mountains,' said the dwarf, 'because they were
proud and ill-behaved, and scorned to ask advice.' The prince begged so hard for his brothers,
that the dwarf at last set them free, though unwillingly, saying, 'Beware of them, for they
have bad hearts.' Their brother, however, was greatly rejoiced to see them, and told them all
that had happened to him; how he had found the Water of Life, and had taken a cup full of it;
and how he had set a beautiful princess free from a spell that bound her; and how she had engaged
to wait a whole year, and then to marry him, and to give him the kingdom.

Then they all three rode on together, and on their way home came to a country that was laid
waste by war and a dreadful famine, so that it was feared all must die for want. But the prince
gave the king of the land the bread, and all his kingdom ate of it. And he lent the king the
wonderful sword, and he slew the enemy's army with it; and thus the kingdom was once more in
peace and plenty. In the same manner he befriended two other countries through which they passed
on their way.

When they came to the sea, they got into a ship and during their voyage the two eldest said
to themselves, 'Our brother has got the water which we could not find, therefore our father
will forsake us and give him the kingdom, which is our right'; so they were full of envy and
revenge, and agreed together how they could ruin him. Then they waited till he was fast asleep,
and poured the Water of Life out of the cup, and took it for themselves, giving him bitter
sea-water instead.

When they came to their journey's end, the youngest son brought his cup to the sick king, that
he might drink and be healed. Scarcely, however, had he tasted the bitter sea-water when he
became worse even than he was before; and then both the elder sons came in, and blamed the
youngest for what they had done; and said that he wanted to poison their father, but that they
had found the Water of Life, and had brought it with them. He no sooner began to drink of what
they brought him, than he felt his sickness leave him, and was as strong and well as in his
younger days. Then they went to their brother, and laughed at him, and said, 'Well, brother,
you found the Water of Life, did you? You have had the trouble and we shall have the reward.
Pray, with all your cleverness, why did not you manage to keep your eyes open? Next year one
of us will take away your beautiful princess, if you do not take care. You had better say nothing
about this to our father, for he does not believe a word you say; and if you tell tales, you
shall lose your life into the bargain: but be quiet, and we will let you off.'

The old king was still very angry with his youngest son, and thought that he really meant to
have taken away his life; so he called his court together, and asked what should be done, and
all agreed that he ought to be put to death. The prince knew nothing of what was going on,
till one day, when the king's chief huntsmen went a-hunting with him, and they were alone in
the wood together, the huntsman looked so sorrowful that the prince said, 'My friend, what
is the matter with you?' 'I cannot and dare not tell you,' said he. But the prince begged very
hard, and said, 'Only tell me what it is, and do not think I shall be angry, for I will forgive
you.' 'Alas!' said the huntsman; 'the king has ordered me to shoot you.' The prince started
at this, and said, 'Let me live, and I will change dresses with you; you shall take my royal
coat to show to my father, and do you give me your shabby one.' 'With all my heart,' said the
huntsman; 'I am sure I shall be glad to save you, for I could not have shot you.' Then he took
the prince's coat, and gave him the shabby one, and went away through the wood.

Some time after, three grand embassies came to the old king's court, with rich gifts of gold
and precious stones for his youngest son; now all these were sent from the three kings to whom
he had lent his sword and loaf of bread, in order to rid them of their enemy and feed their
people. This touched the old king's heart, and he thought his son might still be guiltless,
and said to his court, 'O that my son were still alive! how it grieves me that I had him killed!'
'He is still alive,' said the huntsman; 'and I am glad that I had pity on him, but let him
go in peace, and brought home his royal coat.' At this the king was overwhelmed with joy, and
made it known thoughout all his kingdom, that if his son would come back to his court he would
forgive him.

Meanwhile the princess was eagerly waiting till her deliverer should come back; and had a road
made leading up to her palace all of shining gold; and told her courtiers that whoever came
on horseback, and rode straight up to the gate upon it, was her true lover; and that they must
let him in: but whoever rode on one side of it, they must be sure was not the right one; and
that they must send him away at once.

The time soon came, when the eldest brother thought that he would make haste to go to the princess,
and say that he was the one who had set her free, and that he should have her for his wife,
and the kingdom with her. As he came before the palace and saw the golden road, he stopped
to look at it, and he thought to himself, 'It is a pity to ride upon this beautiful road';
so he turned aside and rode on the right-hand side of it. But when he came to the gate, the
guards, who had seen the road he took, said to him, he could not be what he said he was, and
must go about his business.

The second prince set out soon afterwards on the same errand; and when he came to the golden
road, and his horse had set one foot upon it, he stopped to look at it, and thought it very
beautiful, and said to himself, 'What a pity it is that anything should tread here!' Then he
too turned aside and rode on the left side of it. But when he came to the gate the guards said
he was not the true prince, and that he too must go away about his business; and away he went.

Now when the full year was come round, the third brother left the forest in which he had lain
hid for fear of his father's anger, and set out in search of his betrothed bride. So he journeyed
on, thinking of her all the way, and rode so quickly that he did not even see what the road
was made of, but went with his horse straight over it; and as he came to the gate it flew open,
and the princess welcomed him with joy, and said he was her deliverer, and should now be her
husband and lord of the kingdom. When the first joy at their meeting was over, the princess
told him she had heard of his father having forgiven him, and of his wish to have him home
again: so, before his wedding with the princess, he went to visit his father, taking her with
him. Then he told him everything; how his brothers had cheated and robbed him, and yet that
he had borne all those wrongs for the love of his father. And the old king was very angry,
and wanted to punish his wicked sons; but they made their escape, and got into a ship and sailed
away over the wide sea, and where they went to nobody knew and nobody cared.

And now the old king gathered together his court, and asked all his kingdom to come and celebrate
the wedding of his son and the princess. And young and old, noble and squire, gentle and simple,
came at once on the summons; and among the rest came the friendly dwarf, with the sugarloaf
hat, and a new scarlet cloak.

  And the wedding was held, and the merry bells run.
  And all the good people they danced and they sung,
  And feasted and frolick'd I can't tell how long. Then her father
said to her: 'Dearest child, why are you so sad? How
will you prove that to me?' 'Oh, just let some peas be strewn in the
ante-chamber,' answered the lion, 'and then you will soon see. Thereupon the wedding was celebrated, and the lion was again taken
into favour, because, after all, he had told the truth.

THE KING OF THE GOLDEN MOUNTAIN

There was once a merchant who had only one child, a son, that was very young, and barely able
to run alone. He had two richly laden ships then making a voyage upon the seas, in which he
had embarked all his wealth, in the hope of making great gains, when the news came that both
were lost. Thus from being a rich man he became all at once so very poor that nothing was left
to him but one small plot of land; and there he often went in an evening to take his walk,
and ease his mind of a little of his trouble.

One day, as he was roaming along in a brown study, thinking with no great comfort on what he
had been and what he now was, and was like to be, all on a sudden there stood before him a
little, rough-looking, black dwarf. 'Prithee, friend, why so sorrowful?' said he to the merchant;
'what is it you take so deeply to heart?' 'If you would do me any good I would willingly tell
you,' said the merchant. 'Who knows but I may?' said the little man: 'tell me what ails you,
and perhaps you will find I may be of some use.' Then the merchant told him how all his wealth
was gone to the bottom of the sea, and how he had nothing left but that little plot of land.
'Oh, trouble not yourself about that,' said the dwarf; 'only undertake to bring me here, twelve
years hence, whatever meets you first on your going home, and I will give you as much as you
please.' The merchant thought this was no great thing to ask; that it would most likely be
his dog or his cat, or something of that sort, but forgot his little boy Heinel; so he agreed
to the bargain, and signed and sealed the bond to do what was asked of him.

But as he drew near home, his little boy was so glad to see him that he crept behind him, and
laid fast hold of his legs, and looked up in his face and laughed. Then the father started,
trembling with fear and horror, and saw what it was that he had bound himself to do; but as
no gold was come, he made himself easy by thinking that it was only a joke that the dwarf was
playing him, and that, at any rate, when the money came, he should see the bearer, and would
not take it in.

About a month afterwards he went upstairs into a lumber-room to look for some old iron, that
he might sell it and raise a little money; and there, instead of his iron, he saw a large pile
of gold lying on the floor. At the sight of this he was overjoyed, and forgetting all about
his son, went into trade again, and became a richer merchant than before.

Meantime little Heinel grew up, and as the end of the twelve years drew near the merchant began
to call to mind his bond, and became very sad and thoughtful; so that care and sorrow were
written upon his face. The boy one day asked what was the matter, but his father would not
tell for some time; at last, however, he said that he had, without knowing it, sold him for
gold to a little, ugly-looking, black dwarf, and that the twelve years were coming round when
he must keep his word. Then Heinel said, 'Father, give yourself very little trouble about that;
I shall be too much for the little man.'

When the time came, the father and son went out together to the place agreed upon: and the
son drew a circle on the ground, and set himself and his father in the middle of it. The little
black dwarf soon came, and walked round and round about the circle, but could not find any
way to get into it, and he either could not, or dared not, jump over it. At last the boy said
to him. 'Have you anything to say to us, my friend, or what do you want?' Now Heinel had found
a friend in a good fairy, that was fond of him, and had told him what to do; for this fairy
knew what good luck was in store for him. 'Have you brought me what you said you would?' said
the dwarf to the merchant. The old man held his tongue, but Heinel said again, 'What do you
want here?' The dwarf said, 'I come to talk with your father, not with you.' 'You have cheated
and taken in my father,' said the son; 'pray give him up his bond at once.' 'Fair and softly,'
said the little old man; 'right is right; I have paid my money, and your father has had it,
and spent it; so be so good as to let me have what I paid it for.' 'You must have my consent
to that first,' said Heinel, 'so please to step in here, and let us talk it over.' The old
man grinned, and showed his teeth, as if he should have been very glad to get into the circle
if he could. Then at last, after a long talk, they came to terms. Heinel agreed that his father
must give him up, and that so far the dwarf should have his way: but, on the other hand, the
fairy had told Heinel what fortune was in store for him, if he followed his own course; and
he did not choose to be given up to his hump-backed friend, who seemed so anxious for his company.

So, to make a sort of drawn battle of the matter, it was settled that Heinel should be put
into an open boat, that lay on the sea-shore hard by; that the father should push him off with
his own hand, and that he should thus be set adrift, and left to the bad or good luck of wind
and weather. Then he took leave of his father, and set himself in the boat, but before it got
far off a wave struck it, and it fell with one side low in the water, so the merchant thought
that poor Heinel was lost, and went home very sorrowful, while the dwarf went his way, thinking
that at any rate he had had his revenge.

The boat, however, did not sink, for the good fairy took care of her friend, and soon raised
the boat up again, and it went safely on. The young man sat safe within, till at length it
ran ashore upon an unknown land. As he jumped upon the shore he saw before him a beautiful
castle but empty and dreary within, for it was enchanted. 'Here,' said he to himself, 'must
I find the prize the good fairy told me of.' So he once more searched the whole palace through,
till at last he found a white snake, lying coiled up on a cushion in one of the chambers.

Now the white snake was an enchanted princess; and she was very glad to see him, and said,
'Are you at last come to set me free? Twelve long years have I waited here for the fairy to
bring you hither as she promised, for you alone can save me. This night twelve men will come:
their faces will be black, and they will be dressed in chain armour. They will ask what you
do here, but give no answer; and let them do what they will--beat, whip, pinch, prick, or torment
you--bear all; only speak not a word, and at twelve o'clock they must go away. The second night
twelve others will come: and the third night twenty-four, who will even cut off your head;
but at the twelfth hour of that night their power is gone, and I shall be free, and will come
and bring you the Water of Life, and will wash you with it, and bring you back to life and
health.' And all came to pass as she had said; Heinel bore all, and spoke not a word; and the
third night the princess came, and fell on his neck and kissed him. Joy and gladness burst
forth throughout the castle, the wedding was celebrated, and he was crowned king of the Golden
Mountain.

They lived together very happily, and the queen had a son. And thus eight years had passed
over their heads, when the king thought of his father; and he began to long to see him once
again. But the queen was against his going, and said, 'I know well that misfortunes will come
upon us if you go.' However, he gave her no rest till she agreed. At his going away she gave
him a wishing-ring, and said, 'Take this ring, and put it on your finger; whatever you wish
it will bring you; only promise never to make use of it to bring me hence to your father's
house.' Then he said he would do what she asked, and put the ring on his finger, and wished
himself near the town where his father lived.

Heinel found himself at the gates in a moment; but the guards would not let him go in, because
he was so strangely clad. So he went up to a neighbouring hill, where a shepherd dwelt, and
borrowed his old frock, and thus passed unknown into the town. When he came to his father's
house, he said he was his son; but the merchant would not believe him, and said he had had
but one son, his poor Heinel, who he knew was long since dead: and as he was only dressed like
a poor shepherd, he would not even give him anything to eat. The king, however, still vowed
that he was his son, and said, 'Is there no mark by which you would know me if I am really
your son?' 'Yes,' said his mother, 'our Heinel had a mark like a raspberry on his right arm.'
Then he showed them the mark, and they knew that what he had said was true.

He next told them how he was king of the Golden Mountain, and was married to a princess, and
had a son seven years old. But the merchant said, 'that can never be true; he must be a fine
king truly who travels about in a shepherd's frock!' At this the son was vexed; and forgetting
his word, turned his ring, and wished for his queen and son. In an instant they stood before
him; but the queen wept, and said he had broken his word, and bad luck would follow. He did
all he could to soothe her, and she at last seemed to be appeased; but she was not so in truth,
and was only thinking how she should punish him.

One day he took her to walk with him out of the town, and showed her the spot where the boat
was set adrift upon the wide waters. Then he sat himself down, and said, 'I am very much tired;
sit by me, I will rest my head in your lap, and sleep a while.' As soon as he had fallen asleep,
however, she drew the ring from his finger, and crept softly away, and wished herself and her
son at home in their kingdom. And when he awoke he found himself alone, and saw that the ring
was gone from his finger. 'I can never go back to my father's house,' said he; 'they would
say I am a sorcerer: I will journey forth into the world, till I come again to my kingdom.'

So saying he set out and travelled till he came to a hill, where three giants were sharing
their father's goods; and as they saw him pass they cried out and said, 'Little men have sharp
wits; he shall part the goods between us.' Now there was a sword that cut off an enemy's head
whenever the wearer gave the words, 'Heads off!'; a cloak that made the owner invisible, or
gave him any form he pleased; and a pair of boots that carried the wearer wherever he wished.
Heinel said they must first let him try these wonderful things, then he might know how to set
a value upon them. Then they gave him the cloak, and he wished himself a fly, and in a moment
he was a fly. 'The cloak is very well,' said he: 'now give me the sword.' 'No,' said they;
'not unless you undertake not to say, "Heads off!" for if you do we are all dead men.' So they
gave it him, charging him to try it on a tree. He next asked for the boots also; and the moment
he had all three in his power, he wished himself at the Golden Mountain; and there he was at
once. So the giants were left behind with no goods to share or quarrel about.

As Heinel came near his castle he heard the sound of merry music; and the people around told
him that his queen was about to marry another husband. Then he threw his cloak around him,
and passed through the castle hall, and placed himself by the side of the queen, where no one
saw him. But when anything to eat was put upon her plate, he took it away and ate it himself;
and when a glass of wine was handed to her, he took it and drank it; and thus, though they
kept on giving her meat and drink, her plate and cup were always empty.

Upon this, fear and remorse came over her, and she went into her chamber alone, and sat there
weeping; and he followed her there. 'Alas!' said she to herself, 'was I not once set free?
Why then does this enchantment still seem to bind me?'

'False and fickle one!' said he. 'One indeed came who set thee free, and he is now near thee
again; but how have you used him? Ought he to have had such treatment from thee?' Then he went
out and sent away the company, and said the wedding was at an end, for that he was come back
to the kingdom. But the princes, peers, and great men mocked at him. However, he would enter
into no parley with them, but only asked them if they would go in peace or not. Then they turned
upon him and tried to seize him; but he drew his sword. 'Heads Off!' cried he; and with the
word the traitors' heads fell before him, and Heinel was once more king of the Golden Mountain.
Actually, there were crabs.

THE SEVEN RAVENS

There was once a man who had seven sons, and last of all one daughter. Although the little
girl was very pretty, she was so weak and small that they thought she could not live; but they
said she should at once be christened.

So the father sent one of his sons in haste to the spring to get some water, but the other
six ran with him. Each wanted to be first at drawing the water, and so they were in such a
hurry that all let their pitchers fall into the well, and they stood very foolishly looking
at one another, and did not know what to do, for none dared go home. In the meantime the father
was uneasy, and could not tell what made the young men stay so long. 'Surely,' said he, 'the
whole seven must have forgotten themselves over some game of play'; and when he had waited
still longer and they yet did not come, he flew into a rage and wished them all turned into
ravens. Scarcely had he spoken these words when he heard a croaking over his head, and looked
up and saw seven ravens as black as coal flying round and round. Sorry as he was to see his
wish so fulfilled, he did not know how what was done could be undone, and comforted himself
as well as he could for the loss of his seven sons with his dear little daughter, who soon
became stronger and every day more beautiful.

For a long time she did not know that she had ever had any brothers; for her father and mother
took care not to speak of them before her: but one day by chance she heard the people about
her speak of them. 'Yes,' said they, 'she is beautiful indeed, but still 'tis a pity that her
brothers should have been lost for her sake.' Then she was much grieved, and went to her father
and mother, and asked if she had any brothers, and what had become of them. So they dared no
longer hide the truth from her, but said it was the will of Heaven, and that her birth was
only the innocent cause of it; but the little girl mourned sadly about it every day, and thought
herself bound to do all she could to bring her brothers back; and she had neither rest nor
ease, till at length one day she stole away, and set out into the wide world to find her brothers,
wherever they might be, and free them, whatever it might cost her.

She took nothing with her but a little ring which her father and mother had given her, a loaf
of bread in case she should be hungry, a little pitcher of water in case she should be thirsty,
and a little stool to rest upon when she should be weary. Thus she went on and on, and journeyed
till she came to the world's end; then she came to the sun, but the sun looked much too hot
and fiery; so she ran away quickly to the moon, but the moon was cold and chilly, and said,
'I smell flesh and blood this way!' so she took herself away in a hurry and came to the stars,
and the stars were friendly and kind to her, and each star sat upon his own little stool; but
the morning star rose up and gave her a little piece of wood, and said, 'If you have not this
little piece of wood, you cannot unlock the castle that stands on the glass-mountain, and there
your brothers live.' The little girl took the piece of wood, rolled it up in a little cloth,
and went on again until she came to the glass-mountain, and found the door shut. Then she felt
for the little piece of wood; but when she unwrapped the cloth it was not there, and she saw
she had lost the gift of the good stars. What was to be done? She wanted to save her brothers,
and had no key of the castle of the glass-mountain; so this faithful little sister took a knife
out of her pocket and cut off her little finger, that was just the size of the piece of wood
she had lost, and put it in the door and opened it.

As she went in, a little dwarf came up to her, and said, 'What are you seeking for?' 'I seek
for my brothers, the seven ravens,' answered she. Then the dwarf said, 'My masters are not
at home; but if you will wait till they come, pray step in.' Now the little dwarf was getting
their dinner ready, and he brought their food upon seven little plates, and their drink in
seven little glasses, and set them upon the table, and out of each little plate their sister
ate a small piece, and out of each little glass she drank a small drop; but she let the ring
that she had brought with her fall into the last glass. And who has been drinking out of my
little glass?'

 'Caw! Caw! well I ween
  Mortal lips have this way been.'

When the seventh came to the bottom of his glass, and found there the ring, he looked at it,
and knew that it was his father's and mother's, and said, 'O that our little sister would but
come! then we should be free.' When the little girl heard this (for she stood behind the door
all the time and listened), she ran forward, and in an instant all the ravens took their right
form again; and all hugged and kissed each other, and went merrily home.

THE SALAD

As a merry young huntsman was once going briskly along through a wood, there came up a little
old woman, and said to him, 'Good day, good day; you seem merry enough, but I am hungry and
thirsty; do pray give me something to eat.' The huntsman took pity on her, and put his hand
in his pocket and gave her what he had. Then he wanted to go his way; but she took hold of
him, and said, 'Listen, my friend, to what I am going to tell you; I will reward you for your
kindness; go your way, and after a little time you will come to a tree where you will see nine
birds sitting on a cloak. Shoot into the midst of them, and one will fall down dead: the cloak
will fall too; take it, it is a wishing-cloak, and when you wear it you will find yourself
at any place where you may wish to be. Cut open the dead bird, take out its heart and keep
it, and you will find a piece of gold under your pillow every morning when you rise. It is
the bird's heart that will bring you this good luck.'

The huntsman thanked her, and thought to himself, 'If all this does happen, it will be a fine
thing for me.' When he had gone a hundred steps or so, he heard a screaming and chirping in
the branches over him, and looked up and saw a flock of birds pulling a cloak with their bills
and feet; screaming, fighting, and tugging at each other as if each wished to have it himself.
'Well,' said the huntsman, 'this is wonderful; this happens just as the old woman said'; then
he shot into the midst of them so that their feathers flew all about. Off went the flock chattering
away; but one fell down dead, and the cloak with it. Then the huntsman did as the old woman
told him, cut open the bird, took out the heart, and carried the cloak home with him.

The next morning when he awoke he lifted up his pillow, and there lay the piece of gold glittering
underneath; the same happened next day, and indeed every day when he arose. He heaped up a
great deal of gold, and at last thought to himself, 'Of what use is this gold to me whilst
I am at home? I will go out into the world and look about me.'

Then he took leave of his friends, and hung his bag and bow about his neck, and went his way.
It so happened that his road one day led through a thick wood, at the end of which was a large
castle in a green meadow, and at one of the windows stood an old woman with a very beautiful
young lady by her side looking about them. Now the old woman was a witch, and said to the young
lady, 'There is a young man coming out of the wood who carries a wonderful prize; we must get
it away from him, my dear child, for it is more fit for us than for him. He has a bird's heart
that brings a piece of gold under his pillow every morning.' Meantime the huntsman came nearer
and looked at the lady, and said to himself, 'I have been travelling so long that I should
like to go into this castle and rest myself, for I have money enough to pay for anything I
want'; but the real reason was, that he wanted to see more of the beautiful lady. Then he went
into the house, and was welcomed kindly; and it was not long before he was so much in love
that he thought of nothing else but looking at the lady's eyes, and doing everything that she
wished. Then the old woman said, 'Now is the time for getting the bird's heart.' So the lady
stole it away, and he never found any more gold under his pillow, for it lay now under the
young lady's, and the old woman took it away every morning; but he was so much in love that
he never missed his prize.

'Well,' said the old witch, 'we have got the bird's heart, but not the wishing-cloak yet, and
that we must also get.' 'Let us leave him that,' said the young lady; 'he has already lost
his wealth.' Then the witch was very angry, and said, 'Such a cloak is a very rare and wonderful
thing, and I must and will have it.' So she did as the old woman told her, and set herself
at the window, and looked about the country and seemed very sorrowful; then the huntsman said,
'What makes you so sad?' 'Alas! dear sir,' said she, 'yonder lies the granite rock where all
the costly diamonds grow, and I want so much to go there, that whenever I think of it I cannot
help being sorrowful, for who can reach it? only the birds and the flies--man cannot.' 'If
that's all your grief,' said the huntsman, 'I'll take there with all my heart'; so he drew
her under his cloak, and the moment he wished to be on the granite mountain they were both
there. The diamonds glittered so on all sides that they were delighted with the sight and picked
up the finest. But the old witch made a deep sleep come upon him, and he said to the young
lady, 'Let us sit down and rest ourselves a little, I am so tired that I cannot stand any longer.'
So they sat down, and he laid his head in her lap and fell asleep; and whilst he was sleeping
on she took the cloak from his shoulders, hung it on her own, picked up the diamonds, and wished
herself home again.

When he awoke and found that his lady had tricked him, and left him alone on the wild rock,
he said, 'Alas! what roguery there is in the world!' and there he sat in great grief and fear,
not knowing what to do. Now this rock belonged to fierce giants who lived upon it; and as he
saw three of them striding about, he thought to himself, 'I can only save myself by feigning
to be asleep'; so he laid himself down as if he were in a sound sleep. When the giants came
up to him, the first pushed him with his foot, and said, 'What worm is this that lies here
curled up?' 'Tread upon him and kill him,' said the second. 'It's not worth the trouble,' said
the third; 'let him live, he'll go climbing higher up the mountain, and some cloud will come
rolling and carry him away.' And they passed on. But the huntsman had heard all they said;
and as soon as they were gone, he climbed to the top of the mountain, and when he had sat there
a short time a cloud came rolling around him, and caught him in a whirlwind and bore him along
for some time, till it settled in a garden, and he fell quite gently to the ground amongst
the greens and cabbages.

Then he looked around him, and said, 'I wish I had something to eat, if not I shall be worse
off than before; for here I see neither apples nor pears, nor any kind of fruits, nothing but
vegetables.' At last he thought to himself, 'I can eat salad, it will refresh and strengthen
me.' So he picked out a fine head and ate of it; but scarcely had he swallowed two bites when
he felt himself quite changed, and saw with horror that he was turned into an ass. However,
he still felt very hungry, and the salad tasted very nice; so he ate on till he came to another
kind of salad, and scarcely had he tasted it when he felt another change come over him, and
soon saw that he was lucky enough to have found his old shape again.

Then he laid himself down and slept off a little of his weariness; and when he awoke the next
morning he broke off a head both of the good and the bad salad, and thought to himself, 'This
will help me to my fortune again, and enable me to pay off some folks for their treachery.'
So he went away to try and find the castle of his friends; and after wandering about a few
days he luckily found it. Then he stained his face all over brown, so that even his mother
would not have known him, and went into the castle and asked for a lodging; 'I am so tired,'
said he, 'that I can go no farther.' 'Countryman,' said the witch, 'who are you? and what is
your business?' 'I am,' said he, 'a messenger sent by the king to find the finest salad that
grows under the sun. I have been lucky enough to find it, and have brought it with me; but
the heat of the sun scorches so that it begins to wither, and I don't know that I can carry
it farther.'

When the witch and the young lady heard of his beautiful salad, they longed to taste it, and
said, 'Dear countryman, let us just taste it.' 'To be sure,' answered he; 'I have two heads
of it with me, and will give you one'; so he opened his bag and gave them the bad. Then the
witch herself took it into the kitchen to be dressed; and when it was ready she could not wait
till it was carried up, but took a few leaves immediately and put them in her mouth, and scarcely
were they swallowed when she lost her own form and ran braying down into the court in the form
of an ass. Now the servant-maid came into the kitchen, and seeing the salad ready, was going
to carry it up; but on the way she too felt a wish to taste it as the old woman had done, and
ate some leaves; so she also was turned into an ass and ran after the other, letting the dish
with the salad fall on the ground. The messenger sat all this time with the beautiful young
lady, and as nobody came with the salad and she longed to taste it, she said, 'I don't know
where the salad can be.' Then he thought something must have happened, and said, 'I will go
into the kitchen and see.' And as he went he saw two asses in the court running about, and
the salad lying on the ground. 'All right!' said he; 'those two have had their share.' Then
he took up the rest of the leaves, laid them on the dish and brought them to the young lady,
saying, 'I bring you the dish myself that you may not wait any longer.' So she ate of it, and
like the others ran off into the court braying away.

Then the huntsman washed his face and went into the court that they might know him. 'Now you
shall be paid for your roguery,' said he; and tied them all three to a rope and took them along
with him till he came to a mill and knocked at the window. 'What's the matter?' said the miller.
'I have three tiresome beasts here,' said the other; 'if you will take them, give them food
and room, and treat them as I tell you, I will pay you whatever you ask.' 'With all my heart,'
said the miller; 'but how shall I treat them?' Then the huntsman said, 'Give the old one stripes
three times a day and hay once; give the next (who was the servant-maid) stripes once a day
and hay three times; and give the youngest (who was the beautiful lady) hay three times a day
and no stripes': for he could not find it in his heart to have her beaten. After this he went
back to the castle, where he found everything he wanted.

Some days after, the miller came to him and told him that the old ass was dead; 'The other
two,' said he, 'are alive and eat, but are so sorrowful that they cannot last long.' Then the
huntsman pitied them, and told the miller to drive them back to him, and when they came, he
gave them some of the good salad to eat. And the beautiful young lady fell upon her knees before
him, and said, 'O dearest huntsman! forgive me all the ill I have done you; my mother forced
me to it, it was against my will, for I always loved you very much. Your wishing-cloak hangs
up in the closet, and as for the bird's heart, I will give it you too.' But he said, 'Keep
it, it will be just the same thing, for I mean to make you my wife.' So they were married,
and lived together very happily till they died. I am quite innocent. Here are fifty talers
for you. 'You wretch,' cried he, 'you shall soon learn what it is to shudder, for you shall
die.' 'Not so fast,' replied the youth. 'If I am to die, I shall have to have a say in it.'
'I will soon seize you,' said the fiend. 'Softly, softly, do not talk so big. I am as strong
as you are, and perhaps even stronger.' 'We shall see,' said the old man. 'Now I have you,'
said the youth.

Once upon a time the king held a great feast, and asked thither all her suitors; and they all
sat in a row, ranged according to their rank--kings, and princes, and dukes, and earls, and
counts, and barons, and knights. Then the princess came in, and as she passed by them she had
something spiteful to say to every one. The first was too fat: 'He's as round as a tub,' said
she. The next was too tall: 'What a maypole!' said she. The next was too short: 'What a dumpling!'
said she. The fourth was too pale, and she called him 'Wallface.' The fifth was too red, so
she called him 'Coxcomb.' The sixth was not straight enough; so she said he was like a green
stick, that had been laid to dry over a baker's oven. And thus she had some joke to crack upon
every one: but she laughed more than all at a good king who was there. 'Look at him,' said
she; 'his beard is like an old mop; he shall be called Grisly-beard.' So the king got the nickname
of Grisly-beard.

But the old king was very angry when he saw how his daughter behaved, and how she ill-treated
all his guests; and he vowed that, willing or unwilling, she should marry the first man, be
he prince or beggar, that came to the door.

Two days after there came by a travelling fiddler, who began to play under the window and beg
alms; and when the king heard him, he said, 'Let him come in.' So they brought in a dirty-looking
fellow; and when he had sung before the king and the princess, he begged a boon. Then the king
said, 'You have sung so well, that I will give you my daughter for your wife.' The princess
begged and prayed; but the king said, 'I have sworn to give you to the first comer, and I will
keep my word.' So words and tears were of no avail; the parson was sent for, and she was married
to the fiddler. When this was over the king said, 'Now get ready to go--you must not stay here--you
must travel on with your husband.'

Then the fiddler went his way, and took her with him, and they soon came to a great wood. 'It
belongs to King Grisly-beard; hadst thou taken him, it had all been thine.' 'Ah! wretch that
I am!' sighed she; 'why did I not marry King Grisly-beard?' 'That is no business of mine,'
said the fiddler: 'why should you wish for another husband? Am not I good enough for you?'

At last they came to a small cottage. 'What a paltry place!' said she; 'to whom does that little
dirty hole belong?' Then the fiddler said, 'That is your and my house, where we are to live.'
'Where are your servants?' cried she. 'What do we want with servants?' said he; 'you must do
for yourself whatever is to be done. Now make the fire, and put on water and cook my supper,
for I am very tired.' But the princess knew nothing of making fires and cooking, and the fiddler
was forced to help her. 'I see this work won't do,' said he: 'try and spin; perhaps you will
do that better.' So she sat down and tried to spin; but the threads cut her tender fingers
till the blood ran. 'See now,' said the fiddler, 'you are good for nothing; you can do no work:
what a bargain I have got! At first the trade went well; for many people, seeing such a beautiful
woman, went to buy her wares, and paid their money without thinking of taking away the goods.
'Ah! what will become of me?' said she; 'what will my husband say?' So she ran home and told
him all.

She had not been there long before she heard that the king's eldest son was passing by, going
to be married; and she went to one of the windows and looked out. Everything was ready, and
all the pomp and brightness of the court was there. Then she bitterly grieved for the pride
and folly which had brought her so low. And the servants gave her some of the rich meats, which
she put into her basket to take home.

All on a sudden, as she was going out, in came the king's son in golden clothes; and when he
saw a beautiful woman at the door, he took her by the hand, and said she should be his partner
in the dance; but she trembled for fear, for she saw that it was King Grisly-beard, who was
making sport of her. However, he kept fast hold, and led her in; and the cover of the basket
came off, so that the meats in it fell about. I am the fiddler who has lived with you in the
hut. I brought you there because I really loved you. I am also the soldier that overset your
stall. I have done all this only to cure you of your silly pride, and to show you the folly
of your ill-treatment of me. Now all is over: you have learnt wisdom, and it is time to hold
our marriage feast.'

Then the chamberlains came and brought her the most beautiful robes; and her father and his
whole court were there already, and welcomed her home on her marriage. Joy was in every face
and every heart. The feast was grand; they danced and sang; all were merry; and I only wish
that you and I had been of the party. 'You have let a hair fall into the well,' said he. 'You
have not stood the trial and can stay here no longer. Go forth into the world, there you will
learn what poverty is. But as you have not a bad heart, and as I mean well by you, there is
one thing I will grant you; if you fall into any difficulty, come to the forest and cry: "Iron
Hans," and then I will come and help you. 'What do you desire?' asked the wild man. Perhaps
the unknown man will show himself.' When the feast was announced, the youth went out to the
forest, and called Iron Hans. But this beautiful queen fell ill, and when she felt that her
end drew near she called the king to her and said, 'Promise me that you will never marry again,
unless you meet with a wife who is as beautiful as I am, and who has golden hair like mine.'
Then when the king in his grief promised all she asked, she shut her eyes and died. But the
king was not to be comforted, and for a long time never thought of taking another wife. At
last, however, his wise men said, 'this will not do; the king must marry again, that we may
have a queen.' So messengers were sent far and wide, to seek for a bride as beautiful as the
late queen. But there was no princess in the world so beautiful; and if there had been, still
there was not one to be found who had golden hair. So the messengers came home, and had had
all their trouble for nothing.

Now the king had a daughter, who was just as beautiful as her mother, and had the same golden
hair. And when she was grown up, the king looked at her and saw that she was just like this
late queen: then he said to his courtiers, 'May I not marry my daughter? She is the very image
of my dead wife: unless I have her, I shall not find any bride upon the whole earth, and you
say there must be a queen.' When the courtiers heard this they were shocked, and said, 'Heaven
forbid that a father should marry his daughter! Out of so great a sin no good can come.' And
his daughter was also shocked, but hoped the king would soon give up such thoughts; so she
said to him, 'Before I marry anyone I must have three dresses: one must be of gold, like the
sun; another must be of shining silver, like the moon; and a third must be dazzling as the
stars: besides this, I want a mantle of a thousand different kinds of fur put together, to
which every beast in the kingdom must give a part of his skin.' And thus she though he would
think of the matter no more. But the king made the most skilful workmen in his kingdom weave
the three dresses: one golden, like the sun; another silvery, like the moon; and a third sparkling,
like the stars: and his hunters were told to hunt out all the beasts in his kingdom, and to
take the finest fur out of their skins: and thus a mantle of a thousand furs was made.

When all were ready, the king sent them to her; but she got up in the night when all were asleep,
and took three of her trinkets, a golden ring, a golden necklace, and a golden brooch, and
packed the three dresses--of the sun, the moon, and the stars--up in a nutshell, and wrapped
herself up in the mantle made of all sorts of fur, and besmeared her face and hands with soot.
Then she threw herself upon Heaven for help in her need, and went away, and journeyed on the
whole night, till at last she came to a large wood. As she was very tired, she sat herself
down in the hollow of a tree and soon fell asleep: and there she slept on till it was midday.

Now as the king to whom the wood belonged was hunting in it, his dogs came to the tree, and
began to snuff about, and run round and round, and bark. 'Look sharp!' said the king to the
huntsmen, 'and see what sort of game lies there.' And the huntsmen went up to the tree, and
when they came back again said, 'In the hollow tree there lies a most wonderful beast, such
as we never saw before; its skin seems to be of a thousand kinds of fur, but there it lies
fast asleep.' 'See,' said the king, 'if you can catch it alive, and we will take it with us.'
So the huntsmen took it up, and the maiden awoke and was greatly frightened, and said, 'I am
a poor child that has neither father nor mother left; have pity on me and take me with you.'
Then they said, 'Yes, Miss Cat-skin, you will do for the kitchen; you can sweep up the ashes,
and do things of that sort.' So they put her into the coach, and took her home to the king's
palace. Then they showed her a little corner under the staircase, where no light of day ever
peeped in, and said, 'Cat-skin, you may lie and sleep there.' And she was sent into the kitchen,
and made to fetch wood and water, to blow the fire, pluck the poultry, pick the herbs, sift
the ashes, and do all the dirty work.

Thus Cat-skin lived for a long time very sorrowfully. 'Ah! pretty princess!' thought she, 'what
will now become of thee?' But it happened one day that a feast was to be held in the king's
castle, so she said to the cook, 'May I go up a little while and see what is going on? I will
take care and stand behind the door.' And the cook said, 'Yes, you may go, but be back again
in half an hour's time, to rake out the ashes.' Then she took her little lamp, and went into
her cabin, and took off the fur skin, and washed the soot from off her face and hands, so that
her beauty shone forth like the sun from behind the clouds. She next opened her nutshell, and
brought out of it the dress that shone like the sun, and so went to the feast. Everyone made
way for her, for nobody knew her, and they thought she could be no less than a king's daughter.
But the king came up to her, and held out his hand and danced with her; and he thought in his
heart, 'I never saw any one half so beautiful.'

When the dance was at an end she curtsied; and when the king looked round for her, she was
gone, no one knew wither. The guards that stood at the castle gate were called in: but they
had seen no one. The truth was, that she had run into her little cabin, pulled off her dress,
blackened her face and hands, put on the fur-skin cloak, and was Cat-skin again. When she went
into the kitchen to her work, and began to rake the ashes, the cook said, 'Let that alone till
the morning, and heat the king's soup; I should like to run up now and give a peep: but take
care you don't let a hair fall into it, or you will run a chance of never eating again.'

As soon as the cook went away, Cat-skin heated the king's soup, and toasted a slice of bread
first, as nicely as ever she could; and when it was ready, she went and looked in the cabin
for her little golden ring, and put it into the dish in which the soup was. When the dance
was over, the king ordered his soup to be brought in; and it pleased him so well, that he thought
he had never tasted any so good before. At the bottom he saw a gold ring lying; and as he could
not make out how it had got there, he ordered the cook to be sent for. The cook was frightened
when he heard the order, and said to Cat-skin, 'You must have let a hair fall into the soup;
if it be so, you will have a good beating.' Then he went before the king, and he asked him
who had cooked the soup. 'I did,' answered the cook. But the king said, 'That is not true;
it was better done than you could do it.' Then he answered, 'To tell the truth I did not cook
it, but Cat-skin did.' 'Then let Cat-skin come up,' said the king: and when she came he said
to her, 'Who are you?' 'I am a poor child,' said she, 'that has lost both father and mother.'
'How came you in my palace?' asked he. 'I am good for nothing,' said she, 'but to be scullion-girl,
and to have boots and shoes thrown at my head.' 'But how did you get the ring that was in the
soup?' asked the king. Then she would not own that she knew anything about the ring; so the
king sent her away again about her business.

After a time there was another feast, and Cat-skin asked the cook to let her go up and see
it as before. 'Yes,' said he, 'but come again in half an hour, and cook the king the soup that
he likes so much.' Then she ran to her little cabin, washed herself quickly, and took her dress
out which was silvery as the moon, and put it on; and when she went in, looking like a king's
daughter, the king went up to her, and rejoiced at seeing her again, and when the dance began
he danced with her. After the dance was at an end she managed to slip out, so slyly that the
king did not see where she was gone; but she sprang into her little cabin, and made herself
into Cat-skin again, and went into the kitchen to cook the soup. Whilst the cook was above
stairs, she got the golden necklace and dropped it into the soup; then it was brought to the
king, who ate it, and it pleased him as well as before; so he sent for the cook, who was again
forced to tell him that Cat-skin had cooked it. Cat-skin was brought again before the king,
but she still told him that she was only fit to have boots and shoes thrown at her head.

But when the king had ordered a feast to be got ready for the third time, it happened just
the same as before. 'You must be a witch, Cat-skin,' said the cook; 'for you always put something
into your soup, so that it pleases the king better than mine.' However, he let her go up as
before. Then she put on her dress which sparkled like the stars, and went into the ball-room
in it; and the king danced with her again, and thought she had never looked so beautiful as
she did then. So whilst he was dancing with her, he put a gold ring on her finger without her
seeing it, and ordered that the dance should be kept up a long time. When it was at an end,
he would have held her fast by the hand, but she slipped away, and sprang so quickly through
the crowd that he lost sight of her: and she ran as fast as she could into her little cabin
under the stairs. But this time she kept away too long, and stayed beyond the half-hour; so
she had not time to take off her fine dress, and threw her fur mantle over it, and in her haste
did not blacken herself all over with soot, but left one of her fingers white.

Then she ran into the kitchen, and cooked the king's soup; and as soon as the cook was gone,
she put the golden brooch into the dish. When the king got to the bottom, he ordered Cat-skin
to be called once more, and soon saw the white finger, and the ring that he had put on it whilst
they were dancing: so he seized her hand, and kept fast hold of it, and when she wanted to
loose herself and spring away, the fur cloak fell off a little on one side, and the starry
dress sparkled underneath it.

Then he got hold of the fur and tore it off, and her golden hair and beautiful form were seen,
and she could no longer hide herself: so she washed the soot and ashes from her face, and showed
herself to be the most beautiful princess upon the face of the earth. But the king said, 'You
are my beloved bride, and we will never more be parted from each other.' And the wedding feast
was held, and a merry day it was, as ever was heard of or seen in that country, or indeed in
any other. 'Why do you stand gaping there?' cried the dwarf, and his ashen-grey face became
copper-red with rage.

