THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 14, No. 388.] SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1829. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

ST. DUNSTAN'S, FLEET STREET.

No church in London is perhaps better known than the above, which is distinctively called Saint
Dunstan's in the West. External elegance has little to do with this celebrity, which has been
acquired by the two wooden figures placed on a pediment in front, representing savages, who
indicate the hours and quarters by striking a bell with their clubs: this has caused a wag
to describe them as the most striking wonders of the metropolis. Another, who is equally disposed
to sport with their notoriety, says, "as they are visible in the street, they are more admired
by many of the populace on Sundays, than the most elegant preacher from the pulpit within."
We are, however, induced to hope better; especially as Dr. Donne, the celebrated Richard Baxter,
and the pious Romaine were preachers at St. Dunstan's.

There is no evidence when this church was erected; but Stow records burials in it so early
as the year 1421. The date of the above view is 1739, and from a foot-note to the Engraving,
we learn that the church was dedicated to St. Dunstan, archbishop of Canterbury, who died A.D.
990. "It was anciently a Rectory, in the patronage of the Convent of Westminster. Richard de
Barking, the abbot, in 1237, granted the advowson to King Henry III., which continued in the
crown till 1362; it was afterwards in the gift of the bishop of London, till 1386; when Robert
de Braybrooke, the bishop, granted it to the abbot and Convent of Premonastratenses of Alnwick
in Northumberland, where the patronage remained till their suppression. King Edward VI. granted
it to the Lord Dudley, but both the Rectory and Advowson of the Vicarage were afterwards granted
to Sir Richard Sackville, till alienated to George Rivers, in 1625; it is now in the gift of
Joseph Taylor, Esq." (to whom the Plate is dedicated).

St. Dunstan's luckily escaped the fire of London in 1666, which stopped within three houses
of it, as did also another fire, in 1730. The clock and figures were put up in 1761, and an
accurate description of them (quoted from Smith's London by our esteemed correspondent, P.
T. W.) will be found at page 148, vol. xi. of the MIRROR. The church was thoroughly repaired,
and the roof considerably raised in 1701. The last repairs, which were considerable, were executed
in the year 1820; but it is expected that the whole building will be shortly taken down, and
a new church erected, so as to widen the public thoroughfare.

Our Engraving is an interesting view of the church nearly a century since, when a range of
shops (since removed) extended beneath the whole of this side of the structure; and the respective
signs must have been unholy appendages to what appeared like part and parcel of a house of
prayer. The clock is accurately represented, the bracket being a carved figure of Time with
expanded wings, as mention by Smith. The clockmaker proposed to the parish "to do one thing,
which London shall not show the like," and we hope our Engraving may be the means of rescuing
his eccentric ingenuity from oblivion.

       *       *       *       *       *

A DESULTORY CHAPTER ON LOCALITIES.

(For the Mirror.)

    Rotterdam and Erasmus.--Holyrood and Mary Queen of
    Scots.--Scotland.--Switzerland and Rousseau.--Pope's
    Grotto.--Chiswick, &c.

There is perhaps no sentiment more generally felt, or more delightful, than that indescribable
interest with which we are led to contemplate places and scenes, immortalized in historical
renown, or hallowed by genius.

The propensity for moving from place to place, so observable in mankind, derives, no doubt,
its chief zest from the anxiety we feel to visit countries of which in the course of our historical
researches, we have heard and read so much to awaken our interest, and excite our admiration.

Without the early reverence which we as boys imbibe for the departed splendour of Greece and
Rome, we should not as men be found wandering among the ruins of the Pyræus, or the deserted
streets of Pompeii. We find it impossible to behold unmoved the sad, the astonishing changes
which time, the arch-destroyer has effected with his giant arm. Our exuberant fancies carry
us back to those remote periods when all was glory and magnificence, where now ruin and desolation
have established their melancholy empire. Abandoning ourselves to the potent influence of classical
contemplations of the past, we revel in the full indulgence of antiquarian enthusiasm. Imagination,
however, needs not in general so wide a field for the exercise of her magic powers. We desire
perhaps more of pleasurable excitement from the recollections attached to spots identified
in our minds with events of individual or ideal interest, than from the loftier train of thoughts
produced by a pilgrimage to countries which have become famous in ancient or modern story.
Thus we experience more delight in visiting places, remarkable as having once been the resort
or habitations of distinguished men, than in viewing the ruins of an ancient citadel, or the
site of a celebrated battle. The events achieved on the latter may indeed, in their time, have
turned the scale of empires; but the association of ideas in the former instances, speak a
thousand times more feeling to our individual sympathies. I remember when passing a couple
of days in the opulent city of Rotterdam, that after walking all the morning along its crowded
streets, and paying the accustomed stranger's tribute of admiration to its quays, its port,
and its commercial magnificence, I at length halted before the statue of Erasmus. It stands
on a pedestal in the middle of a large market, and represents the celebrated scholar, clothed
in his professor's gown, and seemingly gazing with dignified unconcern at the busy multitude
around. I remained looking at the effigy before me, with a reverential feeling akin to that
of the devotee at the shrine of a patron saint. Imagination transported me back to the eventful
times in which Erasmus flourished, opening to my mind's eye a long vista of historical recollections,
till my absorbed demeanour attracted observation. I found myself exposed to that vacant stare
with which people are so apt to disconcert your composure, if they observe you contemplating
with curiosity and interest, objects which they have seen every day of their lives, and for
that very reason always pass unnoticed. Leaving then my position, yet anxious to follow up
the train of ideas it had inspired, I sought, and by dint of inquiry, discovered the habitation
of Erasmus. It is in a dirty street, and consists of one moderately sized, low roofed apartment,
on the first floor of an old fashioned, ill-built house, which the vicissitudes of time have
converted into an Estaminet.[1] I was conducted up a dark, narrow staircase into the close,
dingy room, by an ugly, ignorant frau, who seemed to wonder what earthly inducement I had to
visit her dwelling-house. Lumber and moth-eaten furniture were carelessly scattered around.
A solitary window, partly blocked up by an old mattress, barely admitted light sufficient to
make objects visible. All was neglect and desolation. It seemed almost impossible that so obscure
and dismal a lodging could have been occupied by so illustrious a tenant. I fancied I beheld
the most learned man of his age, the counsellor and companion of princes, and the contemporary
and rival of Sir Thomas More, indulging his classical reveries in this comfortless chamber,
regardless of its forlorn and squalid aspect. The charm was omnipotent. Seated in an ancient
leathern-bottomed chair, my hostess, and the dust and darkness of the place were overlooked
or forgotten. The spirit of the mighty dead seemed to hover around, as a sort of genius loci,
rescuing the wretched tenement from otherwise deserved oblivion, and making its very dinginess
venerable!

    [1] A low resort, something between a French café, and an English
        pot-house.

On another occasion I recollect experiencing very strikingly, the force of local impressions.
It was when visiting the apartments of Mary Queen of Scots, in the palace of Holyrood. Recalling
to mind, with the enthusiasm of one of her warmest admirers, every circumstance connected with
the eventful history of that unfortunate princess, it was impossible for me not to feel penetrated
with the deepest interest. I traversed the very rooms in which she had sat, and conversed,
and passed her hours of peaceful privacy. My fancy pictured that privacy rudely and brutally
invaded by Darnley and his ruffian associates, when bent on the murder of the ill-fated Rizzio.
I mentally compared the circumstances of that deed of blood, as related by historians, with
the facilities for committing it, afforded by the distribution of apartments. They tallied
exactly. There was the little room in which sat the queen with her ladies and the devoted secretary.
Close to the door appeared the dark, narrow, turret staircase, which Darnley ascended before
he rushed into Mary's presence. The struggle must have been desperate, for the murder was not
effected in that chamber, Rizzio being either dragged, or escaped into an adjoining and very
obscure anteroom in which the crime was perpetrated. They pretend to show you marks of his
blood yet visible on the floor. Although all such horrible vestiges have been most probably
long since obliterated, it is yet just possible that some may remain. To believe so, at the
moment, was a lawful indulgence of my previous illusion. I could have followed the train of
associations thus created much further, had not the person appointed to act as Cicerone hurried
me through the apartments. Their doors closed against me, and the spell was broken.

Edinburgh is full of interesting localities; particularly the old town. In its ancient "wynds
and closes," now tenanted by the veriest of the plebeian race, in former days resided men of
the most distinguished rank and celebrity. Before the stupendous improvements of later times
had justly entitled the Scottish metropolis to the appellation of the modern Athens, the princes
and nobles of the land, its judges and senators, were obliged to dwell in those dirty streets
and alleys, from which "Auld Reekie" derived its then appropriate appellation. When in progress
of time they removed to more splendid and suitable abodes, their abandoned tenements became
habitations of wretchedness. Much however remained in them to remind posterity of their former
proprietors; and whoever is not afraid of encountering the spectacle of a swarming population
in a state of abject and squalid poverty, will find an abundant field for his antiquarian researches
in the old town of Edinburgh. Like Switzerland, and other mountainous countries, Scotland is
by nature formed to be a land of romantic associations; but how wonderfully have her historians,
poets, and novelists contributed to create and preserve them! The author of Waverley has thrown
a classic halo around the wild beauties of his native land, and communicated to stranger minds
a national enthusiasm which his soul alone could have felt, his pen alone inspired! In Scotland,
almost every step we take is on hallowed ground, and the lover of historical recollections
may enjoy to its full extent the delight of visiting places immortalized by the achievements
of her heroes, or the pen of her poets.

To a man fond of localities, travelling either on the continent or in England, will furnish
numerous opportunities of indulging the reveries to which they give birth. It would be hardly
possible to name a town, or a village, utterly destitute of local interest. In almost every
instance, some memento would be discovered to hallow its site, and to engage the observation
of an intelligent traveller. With a mind predisposed to enjoy mental associations, they will
crowd on us wherever we go, and be suggested by the veriest trifles. Rousseau could not contain
his ecstacy at beholding a little flower (la parvenche) in bloom, which thirty years before,
Madame de Warens had first pointed out to his notice. That simple incident summoned up a train
of exquisite reminiscences. No one, indeed, ever yielded so entirely to the influence of local
enthusiasm as the author of the Nouvelle Heloise. No one has so successfully attempted to invest
scenes, in themselves beautiful, with the additional and powerful interest of ideal recollections.
Picturesque as are the shores of Leman, Meillerie, and Vevai, yet to Rousseau's sublime conceptions
and eloquent descriptions, they are chiefly indebted for the celebrity which they enjoy. Nature
made Switzerland a land of rugged magnificence. To complete the charm, nothing was wanted,
but that its mountains should be peopled by the creations of Rousseau.

It were needless, however, to travel to foreign countries in search of interesting localities.
Our own island teems with them. In the metropolis and its environs, a diligent inquirer will
find them at every step. How many coffeehouses and taverns are there in London which at one
time or another have been frequented by celebrated characters, and how many houses in which
others equally celebrated have resided; such as that of Milton, in Westminster; and of Johnson,
in Bolt Court. How many old gable-ended tenements do we see in the eastern parts of the town
that were standing before the fire, and which, if explored, might be found to contain the most
interesting relics of antiquity. What a number of streets, courts, and alleys, bearing names
at once indicative of their ancient origin, and of scenes, and persons, and local circumstances
long since forgotten!

Then, if we extend our perambulations to the vicinity of London, how many hallowed places shall
we meet with? Where can we find a palace like Windsor Castle, to which attach the historical
recollections of many centuries, adding, if possible, yet more solemnity to Gothic grandeur?

I have visited it in summer, when the warmth of a mid-day sun has rendered the "frigus amabile"
of the interior doubly inviting, and on such occasions, have quite revelled in local enthusiasm.

I remember, some years since, visiting the Duke of Devonshire's beautiful villa, at Chiswick,
in company with a friend, whose sentiments on the subject of local impressions are similar
to my own. While I was admiring books and paintings in the library, my companion was contemplating
in mute emotion, the bed upon which Charles Fox breathed his last. That one object engrossed
all the powers of his soul; every other was forgotten!

C. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HUMBLE SPARROW'S ADDRESS TO T. S. A.

(For the Mirror.)

  My dearest Sir, how great a change
  Has pass'd upon the groves I range,
        Nay, all the face of nature!
  A few weeks back, each pendent bough,
  The fields, the groves, the mountain's brow,
  Were bare and leafless all, but now
        How verdant ev'ry feature!

  Each little songster strives to raise
  Its highest warbling notes of praise,
        For all these blessings given:--
  Ere Sol emerges from behind
  The eastern hills, the lark we find
  Soars, as it were on wings of wind,
        With grateful notes to heaven.

  A thousand others catch the strains,
  Each bush and tree a tongue contains,
        That offers up its praises.
  From morn till the meridian day,
  From noon till Sol has sunk away,
  One ceaseless song, one grateful lay,
        Each feather'd songster raises.

  And when Night's grim and sable band,
  Spreads her dim curtains o'er the land,
        And all our prospect closes;
  Then Philomela, queen of song,
  The sweetest of the feather'd throng,
  Takes up the theme the whole night long,
        While nature all reposes.

  Then surely I, the humblest bird,
  That e'er among the groves was heard,
        Should aid the thankful chorus;
  With chirping note I'll join the sound,
  For not a Sparrow, 'twill be found,
  Without HIS will falls to the ground,
        Who high above reigns o'er us.

  But what avail my feeble powers,
  When softer notes descend in showers,
        Mine are not worth regarding;
  No honour'd title gilds my name,
  No dulcet notes I e'er could claim;
  So worthless I, you may obtain
        Two Sparrows for a farthing.

  Besides, I ne'er was form'd to sing,
  And so must soar on humbler wing,
        Since nature saw it fitter;
  But yet my feeble powers I'll try,
  And sound my chatt'ring notes on high,
  For I am sure you'll not deny
        To hear my simple twitter.

  My gratitude is doubly due,
  For all the hedges[2] in my view,
        Afford a verdant cover;
  I now can build my nest once more,
  From childhood's prying glance secure,
  And from the hawk's keen eye, tho' o'er
        The sacred bush he hover.

  Oh! had I Philomela's tongue,
  The thrush's note, or warbling song
        Of blackbird, lark, or linnet;
  I'd then more gratitude display,
  Striving to raise a sweeter lay,
  I'd sing the fleeting hours away,
        Nor silent be a minute.

  But I must quit the trembling spray,
  And to my duty fly away,
        To pick a straw or feather;
  My mate is somewhere on the wing,
  I think she's gone some moss to bring,
  For we must work while it is spring,
        And build our nest together.

  So now adieu--I've chirp'd too long,
  Must leave the finish of my song
        To some more learned bird's son;
  Whose mellow notes can charm the ear
  With no discordant chatter near;
  So now, dear Sir, I'm your sincere
        And humble Sparrow.

HERDSON.

    [2] You will perceive the writer is a hedge-sparrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A DESTRUCTIVE INSECT ON A ROSEBUD.

IN MANNER OF BURNS.

(For the Mirror.)

  Ye imp o' death, how durst ye dwell
  Within this pure and hallow'd cell,
  Thy purposes I ken fu' well
                Are to destroy,
  And wi' a mortal breathing spell,
                To blast each joy!

  Yet why upo' so sma' a flower,
  Dost thou exert thy deadly pow'r,
  And nip fair beauty's natal hour,
                Wi' thy vile breath,
  It is when wint'ry storms do low'r,
                We look for death.

  But thou, thou evil one, hast come,
  To bring this wee rose to its doom,
  Not i' time of woe and gloom,
                But i' the spring,
  When flowerets just begin to bloom.
                And birds to sing.

  O fie, begone fra out my sight,
  Nor dare attempt such joy to blight,
  Thou evil wicked-doing doit,
                Then hie away,
  Seek not the morning, but the night
                To crush thy prey!

J. F. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONTEMPORARY TRAVELLER.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOURNEY IN SEARCH OF THE RED INDIANS OF NEWFOUNDLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

DERWENTWATER.

The following touching episodal extract is from Dr. Southey's Colloquies on the Progress and
Prospects of Society:--The best general view of Derwentwater is from the terrace, between Applethwaite
and Milbeck, a little beyond the former hamlet. The old roofs and chimneys of that hamlet come
finely in the foreground, and the trees upon the Ornathwaite estate give there a richness to
the middle ground, which is wanting in other parts of the vale. From that spot I once saw three
artists sketching it at the same time--William Westall (who has engraved it among his admirable
views of Keswick,) Glover, and Edward Nash, my dear, kind-hearted friend and fellow-traveller,
whose death has darkened some of the blithest recollections of my latter life. I know not from
which of the surrounding heights it is seen to most advantage; any one will amply repay the
labour of the ascent; and often as I have ascended them all, it has never been without a fresh
delight. The best near view is from a field adjoining Friar's Craig. There it is that, if I
had Aladdin's lamp, or Fortunatus's purse (with leave of Greenwich Hospital be it spoken,)
I would build myself a house.

Thither I had strolled, on one of those first genial days of spring which seem to affect the
animal not less than the vegetable creation. At such times even I, sedentary as I am, feel
a craving for the open air and sunshine, and creep out as instinctively as snails after a shower.
Such seasons, which have an exhilarating effect upon youth, produce a soothing one when we
are advanced in life. The root of an ash tree, on the bank which bends round the little bay,
had been half bared by the waters during one of the winter floods, and afforded a commodious
resting-place, whereon I took my seat, at once basking in the sun and bathing, as it were,
in the vernal breeze. But delightful as all about me was to eye, and ear, and feeling, it brought
with it a natural reflection, that the scene which I now beheld was the same which it had been
and would continue to be, while so many of those with whom I had formerly enjoyed it, were
past away. Our day-dreams become retrospective as we advance in years; and the heart feeds
as naturally upon remembrance in age as upon hope in youth.

    "Where are they gone, the old familiar faces?"

I thought of her, whom I had so often seen plying her little skiff upon that glassy water,
the lady of the lake. It was like a poet's dream, or a vision of romance, to behold her--and
like a vision or a dream she had departed!

  "O gentle Emma, o'er a lovelier form
  Than thine, earth never closed; nor e'er did heaven
  Receive a purer spirit from the world!"

I thought of D., the most familiar of my friends during those years when we lived near enough
to each other for familiar intercourse--my friend, and the friend of all who were dearest to
me; a man, of whom all who knew him will concur with me in saying, that they never knew, nor
could conceive of one more strictly dutiful, more actively benevolent, more truly kind, more
thoroughly good; the pleasantest companion, the sincerest counsellor, the most considerate
friend, the kindest host, the welcomest guest. After our separation, he had visited me here
three summers; with him it was that I had first explored this land of lakes in all directions;
and again and again should we have retraced our steps in the wildest recesses of these vales
and mountains, and lived over the past again, if he had not, too early for all who loved him,

    "Began the travel of eternity."

I called to mind my hopeful H----, too, so often the sweet companion of my morning walks to
this very spot; in whom I had fondly thought my better part should have survived me, and

  "With whom it seemed my very life
                Went half away!
  But we shall meet--but we shall meet
  Where parting tears shall never flow;
  And when I think thereon, almost
                I long to go!"

"Thy dead shall live, O Lord; together with my dead body shall they arise.

Surely, to the sincere believer death would be an object of desire instead of dread, were it
not for those ties--those heartstrings--by which we are attached to life. Nor, indeed, do I
believe that it is natural to fear death, however generally it may be thought so. From my own
feelings I have little right to judge; for, although habitually mindful that the hour cometh,
and even now may be, it has never appeared actually near enough to make me duly apprehend its
effect upon myself. But from what I have observed, and what I have heard those persons say
whose professions lead them to the dying, I am induced to infer that the fear of death is not
common, and that where it exists it proceeds rather from a diseased and enfeebled mind, than
from any principle in our nature. Certain it is, that among the poor the approach of dissolution
is usually regarded with a quiet and natural composure, which it is consolatory to contemplate,
and which is as far removed from the dead palsy of unbelief as it is from the delirious raptures
of fanaticism. Theirs is a true, unhesitating faith; and they are willing to lay down the burden
of a weary life, in the sure and certain hope of a blessed immortality. Who, indeed, is there,
that would not gladly make the exchange, if he lived only for himself, and were to leave none
who stood in need of him--no eyes to weep at his departure, no hearts to ache for his loss?
The day of death, says the preacher, is better than the day of one's birth; a sentence to which
whoever has lived long, and may humbly hope that he has not lived ill, must heartily assent.

       *       *       *       *       *

MASANIELLO.

The last No. (8,) of the Foreign Quarley Review, just published, contains an attractive article
on the Revolutions of Naples, in 1647 and 1648, in which Masaniello played so conspicuous a
part. The paper is in the easy historical style of Sir Walter Scott; but as little could be
selected for our pages, except the Adventures of the Rebel Fisherman, and as we have given
the leading events of his life in an early volume of the MIRROR, we content ourselves with
the following passage. After a tolerably fair estimate of the character of Masaniello, in which
Sir Walter considers his extraordinary rise as a work of fortune and contingency rather than
of his own device in the conception, or his own exertions in the execution--the writer says--

"It would be doing Masaniello injustice, however, if we did not add, that having no distinct
prospect of rendering essential service to his country, he was at the same time totally free
from any sinister views of personal aggrandizement. He appears to have been sincere in his
wishes, that when he had set Naples free,--by which he understood the abolition of imposts,--the
government of it should be committed to a popular management. The Memoirs of 1828 record a
singular circumstance with regard to this point, on the authority of De Santis. While, on Friday,
July 12th, the sixth day of the insurrection, he was sitting in his judgment-seat, a female
masked, or man in woman's habit, approached and whispered, 'Masaniello, we have reached the
goal, a crown is prepared, and it is for thy brows.'--'For mine?' he replied, 'I desire none
but the green wreath with which we honour Our Lady's festival in September. When I have delivered
my country I shall resume my nets.'--'You find them no more. Rebellion should not be undertaken,
or it should be carried on to the end.'--'I will resume my nets,' said Masaniello steadily.
'You will not find them,' said the intrusive monitor. 'What, then, shall I find?'--'Death!'
answered the masked figure, and withdrew into the crowd. An evidence of the purity of his intentions,
though combined with gross ignorance, was afforded by the rigour with which he insisted on
the destruction of the treasure and rich movables found in the houses which were destroyed
during the first days of the tumult. Latterly, indeed, he yielded to the suggestions of Genuino
and d'Arpaya, that these things should be preserved for the good of the state, and for the
purpose of presenting them as a donative to Philip IV. in place of the abolished gabelles.
But whatever was the case with regard to less scrupulous insurgents, he participated in no
plunder, until vanity produced madness, or madness vanity. On the whole we may conclude, that
he was a man whose principal characteristic was the boldness with which he pursued an object
ardently desired, but who was alike incapable, from want of knowledge and talents, to avail
himself of the success which so wonderfully crowned his enterprise. How far his cruelty was
the effect of natural disposition, or a consequence of his malady, is a question that must
be left to HIM to whom alone it can be known."

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON.

Literally translated from a Chinese Poem, by a Chinese who visited England in 1813.

  The towering edifices rise story above story,
  In all the stateliness of splendid mansions:
  Railings of iron thickly stud the sides of every entrance;
  And streams from the river circulate through the walls;
  The sides of each apartment are variegated with devices;
  Through the windows of glass appear the scarlet hangings.
  And in the street itself is presented a beautiful scene;
  The congregated buildings have all the aspect of a picture.

  In London, about the period of the ninth moon,
  The inhabitants delight in travelling to a distance;
  They change their abodes and betake themselves to the country,
  Visiting their friends in their rural retreats.
  The prolonged sound of carriages and steeds is heard through the day;
  Then in autumn the prices of provisions fall,
  And the greater number of dwellings being untenanted,
  Such as require it are repaired and adorned.

  The spacious streets are exceedingly smooth and level,
  Each being crossed by others at intervals;
  On either side perambulate men and females,
  In the centre, career along the carriages and horses;
  The mingled sound of voices is heard in the shops at evening.
  During midwinter the accumulated snows adhere to the pathway,
  Lamps are displayed at night along the street sides,
  Their radiance twinkling like the stars of the sky.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mozart was rather vain of the proportion of his hands and feet--but not of having written the
Requiem or the Don Juan.

       *       *       *       *       *

BURMESE DIGNITY.

Mr. Crawfurd, in his account of the Embassy to Ava, relates the following specimen of the dignity
of a Burmese minister. While sitting under an awning on the poop of the steam vessel, a heavy
squall, with rain, came on.--"I suggested to his excellency the convenience of going below,
which he long resisted, under the apprehension of committing his dignity by placing himself
in a situation where persons might tread over his head, for this singular antipathy is common
both to the Burmese and Siamese. The prejudice is more especially directed against the fair
sex; a pretty conclusive proof of the estimation in which they are held. His excellency seriously
demanded to know whether any woman had ever trod upon the poop; and being assured in the negative,
he consented at length to enter the cabin."

       *       *       *       *       *

STEAM.

A quotation from Agathias clearly establishes a knowledge of the applicability of steam to
mechanical purposes so early as the reign of the emperor Justinian, when the philosopher Anthemius
most unphilosophically employed its powerful agency at Constantinople to shake the house of
a litigious neighbour. It is also recorded, that Pope Sylvester II. constructed an organ, that
was worked by steam. As compared with recent ingenuity, however, these applications may fairly
bring to mind the Frenchman's boast of his countryman's invention of the frill and the ruffle;
while his English opponent claimed for his native land the honour of suggesting the addition
of the shirt.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEDICAL MUSIC.

Sharp, the surgeon, Sir Charles Blicke's master, was a great amateur of music, but he never
used it as a means of curing patients, only in attracting them. It was said that he "fiddled
himself into practice, and fiddled Mr. Pott out of it;" certain it is Mr. Pott, not being a
flat, did not choose to act in concert with Sharp, and made a quick movement to the westward.

       *       *       *       *       *

Boerhaave tells us, that one of the greatest orators of antiquity, Tiberius Gracchus, when
animated, used to cry out like an old woman; to avoid which, he had a servant, who, at these
periods, sounded a pipe, by way of hint, as well as to pitch the tone, so sensible was he of
the importance of a well-regulated voice.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES ON THE DEPARTURE OF EMIGRANTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES.

BY T. CAMPBELL.

  On England's shore I saw a pensive hand,
  With sails unfurl'd for earth's remotest strand,
  Like children parting from a mother, shed
  Tears for the home that could not yield them bread;
  Grief mark'd each face receding from the view,
  'Twas grief to nature honourably true.
  And long, poor wand'rers o'er th' ecliptic deep,
  The song that names but home shall bid you weep;
  Oft shall ye fold your flocks by stars above
  In that far world, and miss the stars ye love;
  Oft, when its tuneless birds scream round forlorn,
  Regret the lark that gladdens England's morn.
  And, giving England's names to distant scenes,
  Lament that earth's extension intervenes.

  But cloud not yet too long, industrious train,
  Your solid good with sorrow nursed in vain:
  For has the heart no interest yet as bland
  As that which binds us to our native land?
  The deep-drawn wish, when children crown our hearth,
  To hear the cherub-chorus of their mirth.
  Undamp'd by dread that want may e'er unhouse,
  Or servile misery knit those smiling brows:
  The pride to rear an independent shed,
  And give the lips we love unborrow'd bread;
  To see a world, from shadowy forests won,
  In youthful beauty wedded to the sun;
  To skirt our home with harvests widely sown,
  And call the blooming landscape all our own,
  Our children's heritage, in prospect long.
  These are the hopes, high-minded hopes and strong.
  That beckon England's wanderers o'er the brine,
  To realms where foreign constellations shine;
  Where streams from undiscovered fountains roll,
  And winds shall fan them from th' Antarctic pole.
  And what though doom'd to shores so far apart
  From England's home, that ev'n the home-sick heart
  Quails, thinking, ere that gulf can be recross'd,
  How large a space of fleeting life is lost:
  Yet there, by time, their bosoms shall be changed,
  And strangers once shall cease to sigh estranged,
  But jocund in the year's long sunshine roam,
  That yields their sickle twice its harvest home.

  There, marking o'er his farm's expanding ring
  New fleeces whiten and new fruits upspring.
  The grey-haired swain, his grandchild sporting round,
  Shall walk at eve his little empire's bound,
  Emblazed with ruby vintage, ripening corn,
  And verdant rampart of Acacian thorn,
  While, mingling with the scent his pipe exhales,
  The orange-grove's and fig-tree's breath prevails;
  Survey with pride beyond a monarch's spoil,
  His honest arm's own subjugated soil;
  And summing all the blessings God has given,
  Put up his patriarchal prayer to Heaven,
  That when his bones shall here repose in peace,
  The scions of his love may still increase,
  And o'er a land where life has ample room,
  In health and plenty innocently bloom.

  Delightful land, in wildness ev'n benign,
  The glorious past is ours, the future thine!
  As in a cradled Hercules, we trace
  The lines of empire in thine infant face.
  What nations in thy wide horizon's span
  Shall teem on tracts untrodden yet by man!
  What spacious cities with their spires shall gleam.
  Where now the panther laps a lonely stream.
  And all but brute or reptile life is dumb!
  Land of the free! thy kingdom is to come,
  Of states, with laws from Gothic bondage burst,
  And creeds by charter'd priesthood's unaccurst;
  Of navies, hoisting their emblazon'd flags,
  Where shipless seas now wash unbeacon'd crags;
  Of hosts review'd in dazzling files and squares,
  Their pennon'd trumpets breathing native airs,
  For minstrels thou shalt have of native fire.
  And maids to sing the songs themselves inspire;
  Our very speech, methinks, in after time.
  Shall catch th' Ionian blandness of thy clime;
  And whilst the light and luxury of thy skies
  Give brighter smiles to beauteous woman's eyes,                }
  The Arts, whose soul is love, shall all spontaneous rise.      }

  Untrack'd in deserts lies the marble mine,
  Undug the ore that midst thy roofs shall shine;
  Unborn the hands--but born they are to be--
  Fair Australasia, that shall give to thee
  Proud temple domes, with galleries winding high,               }
  So vast in space, so just in symmetry,                         }
  They widen to the contemplating eye,                           }
  With colonnaded aisles in lone array,
  And windows that enrich the flood of day
  O'er tesselated pavements, pictures fair,
  And niched statues breathing golden air,
  Nor there, whilst all that's seen bids Fancy swell,
  Shall Music's voice refuse to seal the spell;
  But choral hymns shall wake enchantment round,
  And organs blow their tempests of sweet sound.

  Meanwhile, ere Arts triumphant reach their goal,
  How blest the years of pastoral life shall roll
  Ev'n should some wayward hour the settler's mind
  Brood sad on scenes for ever left behind,
  Yet not a pang that England's name imparts,
  Shall touch a fibre of his children's hearts;
  Bound to that native world by nature's bond,
  Full little shall their wishes rove beyond
  Its mountains blue, and melon-skirted streams.
  Since childhood loved and dreamt of in their dreams.
  How many a name, to us uncouthly wild,
  Shall thrill that region's patriotic child,
  And bring as sweet thoughts o'er his bosom's chords,
  As aught that's named in song to us affords!
  Dear shall that river's margin be to him,
  Where sportive first he bathed his boyish limb.
  Or petted birds, still brighter than their bowers,
  Or twin'd his tame young kangaroo with flowers.
  But mere magnetic yet to memory
  Shall be the sacred spot, still blooming nigh,
  The bower of love, where first his bosom burn'd,
  And smiling passion saw its smile return'd.

  Go forth and prosper then, emprizing band;
  May He, who in the hollow of his hand
  The ocean holds, and rules the whirlwind's sweep,
  Assuage its wrath, and guide you on the deep!

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SMALL TALK AND SMALL ACCOMPLISHMENTS, OR HOW TO MAKE YOURSELF AGREEABLE.

Conversation, like a shuttlecock, should not be suffered to remain with one person, but ought
to pass in turn to all. But as few people think for themselves, so few people talk for themselves,
and a colloquial monopoly is as common and as disagreeable as any other. Yet when we observe
how much these rattles are caressed, 'tis wonderful there are so few. Talent is by no means
indispensable, and is the more valuable in proportion as it is flimsy or superficial. The great
art lies in the choice of a subject. Let it be some liaison in the beau monde--the appearance
of a new singer or actress--the detail of a recent duel, with particulars and embellishments,
and your fortune is made at once. Do not affect any thing like a literary character, for scholars
are reckoned bores. The only matters of this sort with which you can safely meddle are the
fashionable novels--satirical poems--the magazines, and newspapers (eschewing the political
articles as vulgar). It is absolutely necessary to be familiar with the names of all the editors
in town, and these can easily be picked up from any of the tatterdemalions who prowl about
police offices for the purpose of reporting the trials at a penny per line, which is, in most
cases, exactly a penny per line too much. You must drop the complimentary Mr., and say, "A.
of the Chronicle and I--the last time I saw B. of the Globe--C. of the Spectator told me t'other
day," and so on. Of course it is not of the slightest consequence whether you ever saw one
of the parties. You must also affect to be intimate with the theatrical lions, and be aware
of the true state of all managerial squabbles for the season. Swear you have dined a dozen
times with Sontag. En passant, the idea of a singer's patronizing a nation wholesale, as she
has done in the case of the Silesians, is rather too good. Be indignant with Price for forfeiting
Ellen Tree three several times in the sum of thirty pounds, and suppress the fact of his having
remitted the penalty in the two first instances. Assume a mysterious air of "I could if I would,"
when Miss Love's elopement is mentioned, and state with heroic confidence that the Vesuvius
scene in "Masaniello" at Astley's beat Drury by thirteen bricks and two ounces of Greek fire.
You must pretend to know the salaries of all the employés in every establishment, and be able
to describe the plot of every new piece the moment it is underlined. You can obtain sufficient
information to enable you to pass muster on this subject any evening at the Garrick's Head.
It would be of great service if you could contrive to be seen in conversation with a respectable
actor now and then. You must have seen every sight and exhibited at every exhibition in town,
and be able to discuss their several merits or demerits with a "learned spirit." A knowledge
of the principal nobility--by person at least--is a sine qua non, for how else should you be
able to recount the names of those you saw in the Park on Sunday last? Keep a list of the ages
and portions of as many young ladies as possible, and be cautious how you dispose of your information
on this score. These, I think, are the principal topics; and the best advice I can give is,
"Never be quiet: speak on ad infinitum."

The man who inwardly digests these rules will be a treasure at any dinner party. The awful
silence which prevails on the removal of the tablecloth--and an awful silence it surely is--will
be dispelled. No ordinary man thinks of speaking, except in monosyllables, till he gets a little
"elevated," and then he speaks nonsense as a matter of course. You must keep sober--for people
will occasionally get "mellow," even in good society--and this you will easily manage to do
by thinking of the immense superiority you will thus secure on joining the ladies in the drawing-room.
You will be able to hand some blushing fair her coffee without pitching cup and contents into
her lap, and stoop to pick up her fan or handkerchief without incurring the risk of breaking
your nose. Should quadrilles be proposed, you will also be able to avoid those little dos-à-dos
accidents which are by no means agreeable, and be qualified to pronounce, with tolerable certainty,
which is your own partner.

Sharpe's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

VIDOCQ.

Some very pleasant blunderer is said to have declared Moore's Life of Sheridan to be the best
piece of Autobiography he had ever read; and with little more propriety can the concluding
volume of Vidocq's Memoirs be said to belong to that species of literature styled Autobiography.
The early volumes, however, possessed this feature, but the present is little more than a criminal
supplement to the Memoirs. Of this defect, the translator seems to be aware; for in his "Sequel,"
he says, instead of the important disclosures promised by the Police Agent, in vol. ii., "he
has given us a nomenclature of the assassins, thieves, and swindlers of France, and no more."
He has merely brought down his Memoirs to the year 1816, and eked out his fourth volume with
anecdotes and counsels, which have in most cases, more interest than novelty to recommend them.
Still they are worth reading, although of a different character to the scenes, or as a wag
would say, the "concerted pieces" which we have quoted from the three previous volumes. Our
present quotations will not therefore possess the interest of complicated schemes.

At page 34, Vidocq awards to our metropolis, no very desirable distinction--

Town and Country Thieves.

"No capital in the world, London excepted, has within it so many thieves as Paris. The pavement
of the modern Lutetia is incessantly trodden by rogues. It is not surprising; for the facility
of hiding them in the crowd makes all that are badly disposed resort thither, whether French
or foreign. The greater number are fixed constantly in this vast city; some only come like
birds of passage, at the approach of great occasions, or during the summer season. Besides
these exotics, there are indigenous plants, which make a fraction in the population, of which
the denominator is tolerably high. I leave to the great calculator, M. Charles Dupin, the task
of enumerating them in decimals, and telling us if the sum that it amounts to should not be
taken into consideration in the application of the black list."

False Keys.

"Cambrioleurs are plunderers of rooms, either by force or with false keys. There are of this
class thieves of incredible effrontery; that of one Beaumont almost surpasses belief. Escaped
from the Bagne at Rochefort, where he was sentenced to pass twelve years of his life, he came
to Paris, and scarcely had he arrived there, where he had already practised, when, by way of
getting his hand in, he committed several trifling robberies, and when by these preliminary
steps he had proceeded to exploits more worthy of his ancient renown, he conceived the project
of stealing a treasure. No one will imagine that this treasure was that of the Bureau Central
(Central Office), now the Prefecture of Police! It was already pretty difficult to procure
impressions of the keys, but he achieved this first difficulty, and soon had in his possession
all the means of effecting an opening; but to open was nothing, it was necessary to open without
being perceived, to introduce himself without fear of being disturbed, to work without witnesses,
and go out again freely. Beaumont, who had calculated all the difficulties that opposed him,
was not dismayed. He had remarked that the private room of the chief officer, M. Henri, was
nigh to the spot where he proposed to effect his entrance; he espied the propitious moment,
and wished sincerely that some circumstance would call away so dangerous a neighbour for some
time, and chance was subservient to his wishes."

"One morning, M. Henri was obliged to go out. Beaumont, sure that he would not return that
day, ran to his house, put on a black coat, and in that costume, which, in those days, always
announced a magistrate, or public functionary, presents himself at the entrance of the Bureau
Central. The officer to whom he addressed himself supposed, of course, that he was at least
a commissary. On the invitation of Beaumont, he gave him a soldier, whom he placed as sentinel
at the entrance to the narrow passage which leads to the depôt, and commanded not to allow
any person to pass. No better expedient could be found for preventing surprise. Thus Beaumont,
in the midst of a crowd of valuable objects, could, at his leisure, and in perfect security,
choose what best pleased him; watches, jewels, diamonds, precious stones, &c. He chose those
which he deemed most valuable, most portable, and as soon as he had made his selection, he
dismissed the sentinel, and disappeared."

"This robbery could not be long concealed, and the following day was discovered. Had thunder
fallen on the police, they would have been less astonished than at this event. To penetrate
to the very sanctuary!--the holy of holies! The fact appeared so very extraordinary, that it
was doubted. Yet it was evident that a robbery had taken place, and to whom was it to be attributed?
All the suspicions fell on the clerks; sometimes on one, sometimes on another; when Beaumont,
betrayed by a friend, was apprehended, and sentenced a second time."

"The robbery he had committed might be estimated at some hundred thousand francs, the greater
part of which were found on him."

"'There was wherewithal,' he said, 'to become an honest man; I should have become so; it is
so easy when rich! yet how many rich men are only scoundrels!'"

"These words were the only ones he uttered, when he was apprehended. This surprising thief
was conducted to Brest; where, after half a dozen escapes, which only served to make his subsequent
confinement more rigorous, he died in a frightful state of exhaustion."

"Beaumont enjoyed amongst his confraternity a colossal reputation; and even now, when a rogue
boasts of his lofty exploits--'Hold your tongue,' they say, 'you are not worthy to untie the
shoe-strings of Beaumont!'"

"In effect, to have robbed the police was the height of address. Is not a robbery of this nature
the chef-d'oeuvre of its kind, and can it do otherwise than, make its perpetrator a hero in
the eyes of his admirers? Who should dare to compare with him? Beaumont had robbed the police!
Hang yourself, brave Crillon! hang yourself, Coignard! hang yourself, Pertruisard! hang yourself,
Callet!--to him, you are but of Saint-Jean. What is it to have robbed states of service? To
have carried off the treasure of the army of the Rhine? To have carried off the military chest?--Beaumont
had robbed the police! Hang yourselves!--or go to England, they will hang you there."

The Misanthropic Swindler.

At page 71, Vidocq tells us a strange story of a fellow named Capdeville, who affecting misanthropy
and disgust of the world, hired an apartment at a lone house near Paris, and employed his solitude
in obtaining false keys of all the other rooms. Not quite settled here, "Capdeville published
his intention of going out to discover an hermitage where he could pass his latter days in
peace. He inquired of all the country proprietors who had places for sale within a circuit
of six leagues, and it was soon known through the country that he was on the look-out for a
place of the kind. Every body knew, of course, something that would suit him, but he would
have only a patrimonial estate. 'Well, well,' said they, 'since he is so scrupulous, let him
look out for himself.' This, in fact, he did."

"Determined to make a tour, to examine what was most likely to suit him, he employed himself
ostensibly in preparations for his departure; he was only to be absent three or four days,
but before he departed, he was anxious to know if there was no danger in leaving a secretary,
in which were ten thousand francs, which he did not wish to take with him. Being assured on
this point, and full of security, he did not hesitate to set out on his proposed journey."

"Capdeville did not go to a very great distance. During his sojourn in the house he had just
left, he had had time to take impressions of all the keys which were requisite for his entrance
into the dwelling of the landlord, who he knew was in the habit of dining in Paris, and did
not return very early in the evening. By being there at dusk, Capdeville was certain of having
before him all the time necessary for carrying on his operations. The sun had set, and, favoured
by the darkness, he passed unperceived through Belleville, and having entered the house by
the help of false keys, he entered the abode of the landlord, which he cleared out even to
the linen."

"Towards the end of the fifth day they began to be uneasy at the non-appearance of the misanthrope;
the next day a suspicion arose. Twenty-four hours later, and there was but one opinion respecting
him; he was the thief. After such a trick mistrust all misanthropes. To whom then shall we
trust, in whom place confidence? In philanthropists? By no means."

The misanthropy in this case must have been infectious, and the disgust of the lodger transferred
to the landlord.

Other novelties oblige us to break off here for the present, so that another spice or two of
the frauds of Paris stand over for our next.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANECDOTE GALLERY

       *       *       *       *       *

RECOLLECTIONS OF PALEY.

From Best's Personal Memorials.

Some one came up to Paley and made an excuse for a friend, who was obliged to defer an intended
visit to the subdeanery, because a man who had promised to pay him some money in April, could
not pay it till May. "A common case," said Paley. We all laughed. Paley, by way of rewarding
us for our complaisance in being pleased with what was recommended chiefly by the quaintness
of his manner, went on:--"A man should never paay mooney till he can't help it; soomething
maay happen."

At another time he said, "I always desire my wife and daughters to pay ready money. It is of
no use to desire them to buy only what they want; they will always imagine they want what they
wish to buy; but that paying ready mooney is such a check upon their imaginaation."

Paley's education had been sufficiently hardy. "My father rode to Peterborough, and I rode
after him, on a horse that I could not manage. I tumbled off. My father, without looking back,
cried out, 'Get up again, Will.' When I set up a carriage, it was thought right that my armorial
bearings should appear on the panels. Now, we had none of us ever heard of the Paley arms;
none of us had ever dreamed that such things existed, or had ever been. All the old folks of
the family were consulted; they knew nothing about it. Great search was made, however, and
at last we found a silver tankard, on which was engraved a coat of arms. It was carried by
common consent that these must be the Paley arms; they were painted on the carriage, and looked
very handsome. The carriage went on very well with them; and it was not till six months afterwards
that we found out that the tankard had been bought at a sale!"

He told me, "when I wanted to write any thing particularly well,--to do better than ordinary,--I
used to order a post-chaise and go to Longtown; it is the first stage from Carlisle towards
the north; there is a comfortable, quiet inn there. I asked for a room to myself; there then
I was, safe from the bustle and trouble of a family; and there I remained as long as I liked,
or till I had finished what I was about." I said, "That is a very curious anecdote;" and I
said it in a tone which, from a certain change in his countenance, I believe to have set him
on musing how this anecdote would appear in the history of his life. Paley took his rides on
horseback occasionally, but always alone, without the attendance even of a servant. "I am so
bad a horseman, that if any man on horseback was to come near me when I am riding, I should
certainly have a fall; company would take off my attention, and I have need of all I can command
to manage my horse and keep my seat; I have got a horse, the quietest creature that ever lived,
one that at Carlisle used to be covered with children from the ears to the tail." Understanding
all this, and seeing him gambadoing on the race-course, I turned my horse's head another way.
"I saw what you meant this morning; it was very considerate of you; I am much obliged to you."
Paley was too careful of petty expenses, as is frequently the case with those who have had
but narrow incomes in early life. He kept a sufficiently handsome establishment as subdean,
but he was stingy. A plentiful fall of snow took place during an evening party at the precentors's;
two of Mr. Subdean's daughters were there; he showed great anxiety on account of the necessity
that seemed to have arisen of sending them home in a sedan-chair; taking the advice of several
of the company, whether such necessity really and inevitably existed, he said to me, "It is
only next door." "The houses touch," said I, "but it is a long round to your door; the length
of both houses and then through the garden in front of your house." He consulted the precentor,
who, to put the matter in a right point of view, cried out, "Let the girls have a chair; it
is only three-pence a piece."

He preached a sermon at Lincoln for the benefit of a charity school. In the course of this
sermon he related, in familiar but sufficiently dignified language, a story of a man who, giving
evidence on a trial respecting some prescriptive right claimed by the trustees of the charity,
was browbeaten by the questioning counsel:--"I suppose the fact to which you swear happened
when you were a charity boy, and used to go to school there?" The witness calmly replied, "I
was a charity boy; and all the good that has befallen me in life has arisen from the education
I received at that school." Paley drew hence an argument in favour of the institution for which
he pleaded. The whole discourse pleased his auditors, and a deputation waited on him to request
he would print it. "Gentlemen, I thank you for the compliment; but I must give the same answer
that I have given on other like occasions; and that answer is--The tap is out." "The Archbishop
of York," said he, speaking of a late primate, "preached one day at Carlisle; I was present,
and felt muzzy and half asleep; when on a sudden I was roused, and began to prick up my ears;
and what should I hear but a whole page of one of my own books quoted word for word; and this
without the least acknowledgment, though it was a white bear; a passage that is often quoted
and well known." "Now," said Dr. Milner, Dean of Carlisle, who related the anecdote, "guess
what inference Paley drew from this plagiarism. No; if that court were full of people, not
one of them would be able to guess: it was this--I suppose the archbishop's wife makes his
grace's sermons for him."

       *       *       *       *       *

The city has always been the province for satire; and the wits of King Charles's time jested
upon nothing else during his whole reign.--Addison.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

    A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
    SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

ERRORS OF THE PRESS.

By a Reporter.

I once had occasion to report, that a certain "noble lord was confined to his house with a
violent cold"--next morning, I found his lordship represented to be "confined with a violent
scold!" In the same way, on the occasion of a recent entertainment, I had said "that the first
point of attraction and admiration were her ladyship's looks;" this compliment was transferred
by the printer to her "ladyship's cooks!" My praises of the "Infant Lyra" were converted to
a panegyric on the "infant lyar." In an account of General Saldanha's conduct at Oporto, I
observed that he "behaved like a hero," while the printer made it appear that he "behaved like
a hare."--"We," says the John Bull, "often suffer in this way--about two years since, we represented
Mr. Peel as having joined a party of fiends in Hampshire for the purpose of shooting peasants;
and only last week, in a Scotch paper, we saw it gravely stated that a surgeon was taken alive
in the river and sold to the inhabitants at 6d. and 10d. per pound."

Atlas.

       *       *       *       *       *

TESTAMENT OF A USURER.

"I order that my body be returned to the earth from whence it came, and I give my soul to the
devil. I give likewise to the devil the souls of my wife and children, who encouraged me in
usury for the sake of good cheer and fine clothes. Item. I give to the devil the soul of my
confessor, who connived at my crimes by his silence."

       *       *       *       *       *

On the day when the news of the decease of Napoleon reached the Tuileries, Louis XVIII. was
surrounded by a brilliant court, all of whom, with the exception of one man, received the intelligence
with the most unequivocal signs of delight. This man was General Rapp, who burst into tears.
The king perceived and noticed it. "Yes, Sire," answered the general, "I do weep for Napoleon;
and you will excuse it, for to him I owe every thing in the world, even the honour of now serving
your majesty, since it was he that made me what I am!" The king, in an elevated tone of voice,
replied, "General, I do but esteem you the more. Fidelity which thus survives misfortune, proves
to me how securely I may depend on you myself."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HINT TAKEN.

Voltaire after being on terms of friendship with the King of Prussia, owing to his wit, gave
some offence; when the King said to some of his courtiers--"When we squeeze the orange and
have sucked the juice, we throw the rest away." Then said Voltaire I must take care of the
peel--and quitted his Prussian majesty's dominions.

L. P. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Sir,--In the distich you have quoted from my Lectures at page 143 of your last MIRROR, it should
have been stated that the statue was a Cupid.

B. H. SMART.

Connaught Terrace, Aug. 31.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Paris, when they break a window, the common people cry out, "quarante-cinq," so as to produce
a sound, in a measure harmonizing with the accident. It is to them a capital joke, because
quarante-cinq, (45) is written with the two figures that make "neuf" (that is, in French, either
nine or new.) The pun is ingenious.

       *       *       *       *       *

The worst of all knaves are those who can mimic their former honesty.--Lavater. In 6 Parts,
1s. each.

The TALES of the GENII. Price 2s.

The MICROCOSM. By the Right Hon. G. CANNING. &c. 4 Parts, 6d. each.

PLUTARCH'S LIVES, with Fifty Portraits, 12 Parts, 1s. each.

COWPER'S POEMS, with 12 Engravings, 12 Numbers, 3d. each.

COOK'S VOYAGES, 28 Numbers, 3d. each.

The CABINET of CURIOSITIES: or WONDERS of the WORLD DISPLAYED. 27 Nos. 2d. each.

