A MYSTERIOUS PERSONAGE.

From the first, our country has been a refuge, not only for kings and princes and statesmen
and warriors, but for all sorts of adventurers and impostors. Following hard after Kosciuszko,
General Charles Lee, Baron Steuben, Baron de Kalb, Lord Stirling, and Lafayette, we had Talleyrand,
Louis Philippe, and Jerome Bonaparte, and Joseph, king of Spain; and, but for a sudden change
of wind, might have had Napoleon the Great himself--after the affair of Waterloo. We have always
been, and must continue to be, overrun with pretenders, mountebanks, blood relations of Charles
Fox, Lord Byron, and the Guelphs, who are always in the market.

Never, at any time, however, have we had a more puzzling or mysterious visitant than Major-General
Bratish--Baron Fratelin--Count Eliovich. I knew him well,--better, I believe, than others who
had known him longer, but under less trying circumstances. I stood by him through thick and
thin. I fought his battles for a long while, and almost always single-handed, against a cloud
of enemies, at a time when he appeared to be hunted for his life by a band of conspirators,
and was undoubtedly beset by eavesdroppers and spies at every turn.

All at once, after a dazzling career in the political and literary world beyond seas, continuing
for many years, and followed by a course here which kept him always before the public, and
for something more than two years made it almost a distinction for anybody to be acquainted
with him, this General Bratish--Count Eliovich--found himself an outcast, helpless and hopeless,
obliged to live from hand to mouth.

That he was greatly belied, I had reason to know. That he was cruelly misunderstood, and wickedly
misrepresented by the whole newspaper press of our country, I had reason to believe, upon evidence
not to be questioned; but we are anticipating.

One day, in the summer or fall of 1839, Colonel Bouchette of Quebec, son of the late Surveyor-General
of Canada, brought a stranger to see me, whom he introduced as Major-General Bratish, late
in the service of her Catholic Majesty, the Queen of Spain, and associate of General De Lacy
Evans, of the Auxiliary Legion. They were both (Bouchette and Bratish) living in Portland at
the time, and occupied chambers in the same building; and I inferred from what passed in this
or in a subsequent interview that the Colonel had known the General in Quebec or Montreal,
about the time of the outbreak there in which they were implicated.

The object they had in view, on their first visit, was to open a way for General Bratish to
lecture in Portland, upon some one--or more--of many subjects,--on Greece, Hungary, Poland,
the war in Spain, South America, our own Revolutionary War, modern languages, or matters and
things in general.

The appearance and deportment of the gentleman were much in his favor. He seemed both frank
and fearless, with a mixture of modesty and self-reliance quite captivating. He looked to be
about five-and-thirty, according to my present recollection, stood five feet nine or ten, with
a broad chest and good figure. He had not much of military bearing,--certainly not more than
we see in General Grant,--and on the whole bore the appearance of a young, handsome, healthy,
well-bred Englishman, accustomed to good society. He was neither talkative nor reserved, but
natural and free; speaking our language with uncommon propriety, French and German still better,
and Italian like a native, and often expressing himself with singular strength and picturesqueness,--reminding
me of the Italian poet and critic, Ugo Foscolo,--whom I saw at the time he was furnishing the
papers translated by Mrs. Sarah Austin for the Edinburgh Review.

Arrangements were soon made for a first appearance; and the result was all that could have
been hoped for, and much more than could reasonably have been expected. His manner was dignified,
unpretending, and earnest; and he had a sort of unstudied natural eloquence, quite wonderful
in a foreigner, unacquainted with our idioms and unaccustomed to platform speaking. Whatever
might be the subject, he always talked with an air of modest truthfulness, and gave the most
dramatic and startling narratives, like an eyewitness on the stand, testifying under oath.
Never shall I forget Warsaw, nor the battle of Navarino, as rapidly sketched by him in a sort
of parenthesis, while he was lecturing upon a very different subject; he wanted an illustration,
and both of these pictures flashed suddenly out upon us. The other lectures that followed his
first seemed, up to the very last, to grow better and better, until we had faith, not only
in his representations, but in the man himself.

Instead of shunning, he rather invited inquiry; and at an interview with the late Mr. Edward
Preble, son of the Commodore, when that gentleman was questioning him about Tripoli, and was
preparing to show him the very charts used by the Commodore, the General refused to look at
them, and instantly drew a sketch of the harbor, with the castles, batteries, and fortifications,
and gave the soundings and approaches; and all these, upon a careful examination, proved to
be correct in every particular, according to the testimony of Mr. Preble himself.

About this time, in consequence of the favorable notices that appeared in our Portland papers,
the Philadelphia Ledger, the Saturday Courier, and some other journals of that city, opened
upon him in full cry, followed by the American press generally; the Courier declaring that
he had taken leg bail and escaped from Canada,--that he had run away from Rochester, after
obtaining five hundred dollars from Henry McIlvaine, Esq., of the Philadelphia bar, in the
shape of fees for constituting that gentleman "Consul-General of Greece"! By others he was
charged with being a tin-pedler, a horse-thief, and a leech-doctor, who had assumed the title
of Count long after his arrival in this country. Among many anonymous letters--letters addressed
to strangers in Portland--came one from Henry McIlvaine himself, saying: "I see by the Portland
papers, that a man calling himself sometimes General Bratish, at others General Eliovich, Count
Eliovich, Baron Fratelin and Walbeck, and claiming to have been a general in the Polish, Spanish,
Mexican, and other armies, is now in your town; and I should suppose, from the papers who have
noticed him, imposing upon respectable people. Having seen something of this person, and been
myself a victim, I have felt it due to my friends in Portland to put them on their guard. He
is the son of a merchant in Trieste, driven from his home and his friends in consequence of
his crimes. His pretension to any of the titles he claims is altogether without foundation.
After exhausting Europe, he has within a few years turned his talents to good account in our
country. He made his appearance here about two years ago as Consul-General and Envoy from Greece,
in which capacity he was very free with his commissions of vice-consulships in New York and
Philadelphia. He was indicted here for forgery,--convicted,--obtained a new trial by the false
oaths of his associates, some of whom are now in the state prison (one for horse-stealing),
and gave bail for his appearance at the next term. The pretence for a new trial was the absence
of a witness who never existed, but who was expected to prove his innocence. Before the next
term, the Consul-General took wing, leaving his bail, a simple Frenchman, to pay the forfeit.
It would be impossible for me to give anything like a history of his crimes in a letter. Suffice
it to say that he is a notorious swindler, the most unblushing and inexhaustible liar and the
most finished rascal I ever saw."

If this were true, how happened it that the notorious swindler, the horse-thief, the convicted
forger, and the escaped convict was still at large,--and not only at large, but always before
the public, and always without a change of name? Why was he not surrendered by his bail? Why
not followed by a bench warrant, or a requisition from the Governor of Pennsylvania? Of course,
the story could not be true, as told by Mr. McIlvaine. It was too absurd on the face of it.

But was any part of the story true? and, if so, how much? Having been frequently imposed upon,
both at home and abroad, by adventurers and pretenders, I determined to go to the bottom of
this case before I committed myself, and I must say that, for a while, the stories told by
General Bratish, and the explanations he gave, seemed to me still more absurd and preposterous.

According to his story--to give one example out of a score--he had been obliged to apply for
the benefit of the Insolvent Act, in Philadelphia, owing to losses he had sustained by lending
money to distressed compatriots, and eleemosynary outcasts, and had been opposed in the Court
of Insolvency by Colonel John Stille, Jr. and Mr. Henry McIlvaine, who threatened him with
a prosecution for the forgery of consular papers, if he dared to appear. He declared that he
did appear, nevertheless, and was honorably discharged; that his claims and evidences of debt,
handed over to Mr. McIlvaine, the assignee, amounted to $7,620 for cash lent, while his debts
altogether amounted to less than $1,000; that he was arrested while in court, on a warrant
for forgery, and there subjected to a long and rigorous examination by Messrs. McIlvaine and
Stille, who had got possession of all the claims against him; that the offence charged consisted
in issuing a commission as Vice-Consul of Greece, with General Bratish's own signature! that
McIlvaine went before Mr. Alderman Binns to get the warrant for forgery, and employed Colonel
John Stille, Jr., his coadjutor, to appear as public prosecutor in the Mayor's Court of Philadelphia;
that he, General Bratish, was put upon trial before a bench of aldermen, not a man of the whole
except the Recorder being acquainted with the rudiments of law; that, on being arraigned, he
refused to plead, and called no witnesses himself, though some were called by his counsel,--when
the Recorder directed the plea of "Not guilty" to be entered, and the trial to proceed; that
he claimed to be a foreign consul provisionally appointed, entered a formal protest, which
appeared in the papers of the day, and never deigned to open his mouth, until, to the consternation
and amazement of all who understood the case, the jury found him guilty, under the direction
of the Recorder,--a direction which amounted to this, namely, that, while General Bratish could
not be legally convicted of the offence charged, he might be convicted of another offence not
charged! that a motion for a new trial was entered at the suggestion of the Recorder himself,
and was finally argued in a burst of indignation by General Bratish, who thrust aside his counsel,
and refused to be delivered on technical grounds; that the motion was opposed by Messrs. McIlvaine
and Stille, but prevailed; that the verdict was set aside, a new trial granted, and General
Bratish was allowed to go at large, on greatly reduced bail, every member of the court concurring,
except Mr. Alderman McKean; that no sooner was the trial over, and the proceedings published,
than a public meeting was called through the National Gazette, the Public Ledger, the United
States Gazette, and the Pennsylvanian, and all persons were invited to appear, and bring forward
their charges--if any they had--against him; that such a meeting, both large and respectable,
was held at the College of Pharmacy, and resolutions were adopted, declaring the character
of General Bratish to be "unimpeached and unimpeachable" his authority from Greece to be fully
proved, and his identity to have been established by the testimony of "several highly respectable
gentlemen present"; that, before he could have another trial, the court was abolished; and
that, after waiting two months for the prosecutor to move, for want of something better to
do, General Bratish betook himself to Canada; that he was followed there, watched, arrested
for a horse-thief, immediately and honorably discharged, re-arrested upon a suspicion of high
treason, put beyond the reach of a habeas corpus writ, and confined for seven months, in the
citadel of Quebec and elsewhere, as a prisoner of state, &c., &c.

Such was a part of his story; and astonishing as it may appear--incredible, I might say--I
found it, after a most careful investigation, to be not only substantially true, but scrupulously
exact. The evidence came to me through unwilling or prejudiced witnesses,--my friend, Henry
C. Carey of Philadelphia, among the number,--and was corroborated throughout by official documents
and published proceedings. And here I may as well add, that Mr. Arnold Buffum was chairman,
and J. Griffith, M. D. secretary, of the meeting above referred to, of March 6th, 1838.

While this unhappy controversy was raging, and our people were dividing upon the questions
involved, a little incident occurred which had a very wholesome effect upon our misgivings.
The General happened to be in conversation with a stranger one day, when the subject of Unitarianism,
as it existed in the North of Europe, came up. Something was then said about the great Unitarian
Convention held at Cork, Ireland, two or three years before. General Bratish said he was in
attendance, and had let fall some remarks there. A by-stander, who had very little faith in
our hero, caught at the ravelling thus dropped. If what the General said were true, surely
some evidence might be found by diligent search. And, sure enough! the gentleman found a copy
of the Christian Pioneer, in Boston, giving an account of that very Convention. He acknowledged
to me that he opened the journal with fear and trembling, but soon came upon what purported
to be an abstract of a speech by General Bratish, and what furnished abundant confirmation
of his highest pretensions as a soldier, as a writer, as a patriot, and as a philanthropist.
I saw the Pioneer myself. It was a monthly journal, published in Glasgow, Scotland, July, 1835.
The speech, as reported, was eminently characteristic, and the summary that followed was in
the following words:--

"The society was gratified on this occasion by the presence of the Rev. George Harris of Glasgow,
whose visit to Cork the committee gladly availed themselves of, earnestly requesting his attendance;
and of Mr. Bratish, a native of Hungary, and a member of the Hungarian Diet, who, in consequence
of his intrepid advocacy of the cause of much-injured Poland, both in his place in the legislature,
and subsequently with his pen and his sword, has been obliged to fly his country, and take
refuge in this kingdom."

Among the most damaging allegations was one to this effect, that Mr. Forsyth, our Secretary
of State, had contradicted the story of General Bratish about his consular authority and proceedings
in every particular. So far was this from being true, that Mr. Forsyth confirmed the story
of General Bratish in substance, acknowledging to me that he knew nothing to his prejudice,
and that General Bratish had held such communications with him as he had represented.

