Then the Jew began to beg and pray, and at last he said he would give plenty of his money to
be set free. He did not, however, come up to the musician's price for some time, so he danced
him along brisker and brisker. At length he went to a judge, and said that a rascal had robbed
him of his money, and beaten him soundly into the bargain, and that this fellow carried a bow
at his back, and had a fiddle hanging round his neck. The judge sent out his bailiffs to bring
up the man whenever they should find him. The countryman was soon caught, and brought up to
be tried.

The Jew began his tale, and said he had been robbed of his money.

"Robbed, indeed!" said the countryman; "why, you gave it me for playing you a tune, and teaching
you to dance."

The judge said that was not likely; that the Jew, he was sure, knew better what to do with
his money; and he cut the matter short by sending the countryman off to the gallows.

Away he was taken, but as he stood at the foot of the ladder, he said--

"My Lord Judge, may it please your worship to grant me but one boon?"

"Anything but thy life," replied the other.

"No," said he; "I do not ask my life. Only let me play upon my fiddle for the last time." He
will soon have done."

The fact was he could not say no, because the dwarf's third gift enabled the countryman to
make every one grant whatever he asked. All began capering, and no one could hold the Jew.
At the second note the hangman let his prisoner go and danced also, and by the time the first
bar of the tune was played all were dancing together--judge, court, Jew, and all the people
who had followed to look on. At first the thing went merrily and joyously enough, but when
it had gone on a while, and there seemed to be no end of either playing or dancing, all began
to cry out and beg the countryman to leave off. He stopped, however, not a whit the more for
their begging, till the judge not only gave him his life, but paid him back the hundred crowns.

Then the countryman called the Jew, and said--

"Tell us now, you rogue, where you got that gold, or I shall play on for your amusement only."

"I stole it," replied the Jew, before all the people. "I acknowledge that I stole it, and that
you earned it fairly."

Then the countryman stopped his fiddling, and left the Jew to take his place at the gallows.

THE ELVES.

The happy day at length arrived on which Count Hermann von Rosenberg was married to his beloved
Catherine, a princess of the house of Gonzaca. The event was celebrated by a magnificent banquet
and festival, and it was late before the Count and Countess could leave their guests. The young
Countess was already asleep, and Hermann was sinking into a slumber, when he was aroused by
hearing the sounds of soft and gentle music, and, the door of his apartment flying open, a
joyous bridal procession entered the room. The figures engaged in this extraordinary scene
were not more than two or three spans high. The bride and bridegroom were in the centre of
the procession, and the musicians preceded it.

Hermann rose up in bed, and demanded what brought them there, and why they had aroused him,
whereupon one of the company stepped up to him, and said--

"We are attendant spirits of that peaceful class who dwell in the earth. We have dwelt for
many years beneath this thy birthplace, and have ever watched over thy dwelling to preserve
it from misfortune. Already have we taken good care of the ashes of your forefathers that they
should not fall into the power of hostile and evil spirits, and as faithful servants we watch
over the welfare of your house. Since thou hast this day been married for the continuance of
thy name and ancient race, we have represented to you this bridal ceremony, in hopes that you
will grant us full permission to keep and celebrate this joyous festival, in return for which
we promise to serve you and your house with the greatest readiness."

"Very well," said Hermann, laughing; "make yourselves as merry in my castle as you please."

They thanked him, and took their departure. Hermann could not, however, banish from his mind
this remarkable scene, and it was daybreak before he fell asleep. In the morning his thoughts
were still occupied with it, yet he never mentioned one word of the occurrence to his wife.

In the course of time the Countess presented him with a daughter. Scarcely had Hermann received
intelligence of this event before a very diminutive old crone entered the apartment and informed
him that the elfin bride, whom he had seen in the miniature procession on the night of his
nuptials, had given birth to a daughter. Hermann was very friendly to the visitor, wished all
happiness to the mother and child, and the old woman took her departure. The Count did not,
however, mention this visit to his wife.

A year afterwards, on the approach of her second confinement, the Countess saw the elves on
the occasion of her husband receiving another of their unexpected visits. The little people
entered the chamber in a long procession in black dresses, carrying lights in their hands,
and the little women were clothed in white. One of these stood before the Count holding up
her apron, while an old man thus addressed her--

"No more, dear Hermann, can we find a resting-place in your castle. We must wander abroad.
We are come to take our departure from you."

"Wherefore will you leave my castle?" inquired Hermann. "Have I offended you?"

"No, thou hast not; but we must go, for she whom you saw as a bride on your wedding-night lost,
last evening, her life in giving birth to an heir, who likewise perished. As a proof that we
are thankful for the kindness you have always shown us, take a trifling proof of our power."

When the old man had thus spoken, he placed a little ladder against the bed, which the old
woman who had stood by ascended. Then she opened her apron, held it before Hermann, and said--

"Grasp and take."

He hesitated. She repeated what she had said. At last he did what she told him, took out of
her apron what he supposed to be a handful of sand, and laid it in a basin which stood upon
a table by his bedside. The little woman desired him to take another handful, and he did once
more as she bade him. Thereupon the woman descended the ladder; and the procession, weeping
and lamenting, departed from the chamber.

When day broke, Hermann saw that the supposed sand which he had taken from the apron of the
little woman was nothing less than pure and beautiful grains of gold.

But what happened? On that very day he lost his Countess in childbirth, and his new-born son.
Hermann mourned her loss so bitterly that he was very soon laid beside her in the grave. With
him perished the house of Rosenberg.

THE CONCLAVE OF CORPSES.

Some three hundred years since, when the convent of Kreutzberg was in its glory, one of the
monks who dwelt therein, wishing to ascertain something of the hereafter of those whose bodies
lay all undecayed in the cemetery, visited it alone in the dead of night for the purpose of
prosecuting his inquiries on that fearful subject. As he opened the trap-door of the vault
a light burst from below; but deeming it to be only the lamp of the sacristan, the monk drew
back and awaited his departure concealed behind the high altar. The sacristan emerged not,
however, from the opening; and the monk, tired of waiting, approached, and finally descended
the rugged steps which led into the dreary depths. No sooner had he set foot on the lowermost
stair, than the well-known scene underwent a complete transformation in his eyes. He had long
been accustomed to visit the vault, and whenever the sacristan went thither, he was almost
sure to be with him. He therefore knew every part of it as well as he did the interior of his
own narrow cell, and the arrangement of its contents was perfectly familiar to his eyes. What,
then, was his horror to perceive that this arrangement, which even but that morning had come
under his observation as usual, was altogether altered, and a new and wonderful one substituted
in its stead.

A dim lurid light pervaded the desolate abode of darkness, and it just sufficed to give to
his view a sight of the most singular description.

On each side of him the dead but imperishable bodies of the long-buried brothers of the convent
sat erect in their lidless coffins, their cold, starry eyes glaring at him with lifeless rigidity,
their withered fingers locked together on their breasts, their stiffened limbs motionless and
still. It was a sight to petrify the stoutest heart; and the monk's quailed before it, though
he was a philosopher, and a sceptic to boot. At the upper end of the vault, at a rude table
formed of a decayed coffin, or something which once served the same purpose, sat three monks.
They were the oldest corses in the charnel-house, for the inquisitive brother knew their faces
well; and the cadaverous hue of their cheeks seemed still more cadaverous in the dim light
shed upon them, while their hollow eyes gave forth what looked to him like flashes of flame.
A large book lay open before one of them, and the others bent over the rotten table as if in
intense pain, or in deep and fixed attention. No word was said; no sound was heard; the vault
was as silent as the grave, its awful tenants still as statues.

Fain would the curious monk have receded from this horrible place; fain would he have retraced
his steps and sought again his cell; fain would he have shut his eyes to the fearful scene;
but he could not stir from the spot, he felt rooted there; and though he once succeeded in
turning his eyes to the entrance of the vault, to his infinite surprise and dismay he could
not discover where it lay, nor perceive any possible means of exit. He stood thus for some
time. At length the aged monk at the table beckoned him to advance. With slow tottering steps
he made his way to the group, and at length stood in front of the table, while the other monks
raised their heads and glanced at him with a fixed, lifeless look that froze the current of
his blood. He knew not what to do; his senses were fast forsaking him; Heaven seemed to have
deserted him for his incredulity. In this moment of doubt and fear he bethought him of a prayer,
and as he proceeded he felt himself becoming possessed of a confidence he had before unknown.
He looked on the book before him. It was a large volume, bound in black, and clasped with bands
of gold, with fastenings of the same metal. It was inscribed at the top of each page

"Liber Obedientiæ."

He could read no further. He then looked, first in the eyes of him before whom it lay open,
and then in those of his fellows. He finally glanced around the vault on the corpses who filled
every visible coffin in its dark and spacious womb. Speech came to him, and resolution to use
it. He addressed himself to the awful beings in whose presence he stood, in the words of one
having authority with them.

"Pax vobis," 'twas thus he spake--"Peace be to ye."

"Hic nulla pax," replied an aged monk, in a hollow, tremulous tone, baring his breast the while--"Here
is no peace."

He pointed to his bosom as he spoke, and the monk, casting his eye upon it, beheld his heart
within surrounded by living fire, which seemed to feed on it but not consume it. He turned
away in affright, but ceased not to prosecute his inquiries.

"Pax vobis, in nomine Domini," he spake again--"Peace be to ye, in the name of the Lord."

"Hic non pax," the hollow and heartrending tones of the ancient monk who sat at the right of
the table were heard to answer.

On glancing at the bared bosom of this hapless being also the same sight was exhibited--the
heart surrounded by a devouring flame, but still remaining fresh and unconsumed under its operation.
Once more the monk turned away and addressed the aged man in the centre.

"Pax vobis, in nomine Domini," he proceeded.

At these words the being to whom they were addressed raised his head, put forward his hand,
and closing the book with a loud clap, said--

"Speak on. It is yours to ask, and mine to answer."

The monk felt reassured, and his courage rose with the occasion.

"Who are ye?" he inquired; "who may ye be?"

"We know not!" was the answer, "alas! we know not!"

"We know not, we know not!" echoed in melancholy tones the denizens of the vault.

"What do ye here?" pursued the querist.

"We await the last day, the day of the last judgment! Alas for us! woe! woe!"

"Woe! woe!" resounded on all sides.

The monk was appalled, but still he proceeded.

"What did ye to deserve such doom as this? What may your crime be that deserves such dole and
sorrow?"

As he asked the question the earth shook under him, and a crowd of skeletons uprose from a
range of graves which yawned suddenly at his feet.

"These are our victims," answered the old monk. "They suffered at our hands. We suffer now,
while they are at peace; and we shall suffer."

"For how long?" asked the monk.

"For ever and ever!" was the answer.

"For ever and ever, for ever and ever!" died along the vault.

"May God have mercy on us!" was all the monk could exclaim.

The skeletons vanished, the graves closing over them. The aged men disappeared from his view,
the bodies fell back in their coffins, the light fled, and the den of death was once more enveloped
in its usual darkness.

On the monk's revival he found himself lying at the foot of the altar. The grey dawn of a spring
morning was visible, and he was fain to retire to his cell as secretly as he could, for fear
he should be discovered.

From thenceforth he eschewed vain philosophy, says the legend, and, devoting his time to the
pursuit of true knowledge, and the extension of the power, greatness, and glory of the Church,
died in the odour of sanctity, and was buried in that holy vault, where his body is still visible.

Requiescat in pace!

LEGENDS OF RUBEZAHL, OR NUMBER-NIP.

Once upon a time a glazier who was travelling across the mountains, feeling very tired from
the heavy load of glass which he was carrying, began to look about to discover a place where
he might rest it. Rubezahl, who had been watching for some time, no sooner saw this than he
changed himself into a little mound, which the glazier not long afterwards discovered in his
way, and on which, well pleased, he proposed to seat himself. But his joy was not of long continuance,
for he had not sat there many minutes before the heap vanished from under him so rapidly, that
the poor glazier fell to the ground with his glass, which was by the fall smashed into a thousand
pieces.

The poor fellow arose from the ground and looked around him, but the mound of earth on which
he had before seated himself was no longer visible. Then he began bitterly to lament, and to
sigh with heartfelt sorrow over his untoward fate. At length he started once more on his journey.
Upon this Rubezahl, assuming the appearance of a traveller, accosted him, and inquired why
he so lamented, and what was the great sorrow with which he was afflicted. The glazier related
to him the whole affair, how that, being weary, he had seated himself upon a mound by the wayside,
how this had suddenly overthrown him, and broken to pieces his whole stock of glass, which
was well worth eight dollars, and how, in short, the mound itself had suddenly disappeared.
He declared that he knew not in the least how to recover his loss and bring the business to
a good ending. The compassionate mountain sprite comforted him, told him who he was, and that
he himself had played him the trick, and at the same time bade him be of good cheer, for his
losses should be made good to him.

Upon this Rubezahl transformed himself into an ass, and directed the glazier to sell him at
the mill which lay at the foot of the mountain, and to be sure to make off with the purchase-money
as quickly as possible. The glazier accordingly immediately bestrode the transformed mountain
sprite, and rode him down the mountain to the mill, where he offered him for sale to the miller
at the price of ten dollars. The miller offered nine, and the glazier, without further haggling,
took the money and went his way.

When he was gone the miller sent his newly purchased beast to the stable, and the boy who had
charge of him immediately filled his rack with hay. Upon this Rubezahl exclaimed--

"I don't eat hay. I eat nothing but roasted and boiled, and that of the best."

The boy's hair stood on end. He flew to his master, and related to him this wondrous tale,
and he no sooner heard it than he hastened to the stable and there found nothing, for his ass
and his nine dollars were alike vanished.

But the miller was rightly served, for he had cheated in his time many poor people, therefore
Rubezahl punished in this manner the injustice of which he had been guilty.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the year 1512 a man of noble family, who was a very tyrant and oppressor, had commanded
one of his vassals or peasants to carry home with his horses and cart an oak of extraordinary
magnitude, and threatened to visit him with the heaviest disgrace and punishment if he neglected
to fulfil his desires. The peasant saw that it was impossible for him to execute the command
of his lord, and fled to the woods with great sorrow and lamentation.

There he was accosted by Rubezahl, who appeared to him like a man, and inquired of him the
cause of his so great sorrow and affliction. Upon this the peasant related to him all the circumstances
of the case. When Rubezahl heard it he bade him be of good cheer and care not, but go home
to his house again, as he himself would soon transport the oak, as his lord required, into
his courtyard.

Scarcely had the peasant got well home again before Rubezahl took the monstrous oak-tree, with
its thick and sturdy boughs, and hurled it into the courtyard of the nobleman, and with its
huge stem, and its many thick branches, so choked and blocked up the entrance that no one could
get either in or out. And because the oak proved harder than their iron tools, and could in
no manner or wise, and with no power which they could apply to it, be hewn or cut in pieces,
the nobleman was compelled to break through the walls in another part of the courtyard, and
have a new doorway made, which was only done with great labour and expense.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once upon a time Rubezahl made, from what materials is not known, a quantity of pigs, which
he drove to the neighbouring market and sold to a peasant, with a caution that the purchaser
should not drive them through any water.

Now, what happened? Why these same swine having chanced to get sadly covered with mire, what
must the peasant do, but drive them to the river, which they had no sooner entered than the
pigs suddenly became wisps of straw, and were carried away by the stream. The purchaser was,
moreover, obliged to put up with the loss, for he could neither find his pigs again, nor could
he discover the person from whom he had bought them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rubezahl once betook himself to the Hirschberg, which is in the neighbourhood of his forest
haunts, and there offered his services as a woodcutter to one of the townsmen, asking for his
remuneration nothing more than a bundle of wood. This the man promised him, accepting his offer,
and pointed out some cart-loads, intending to give him some assistance. To this offer of help
in his labours Rubezahl replied--

"No. It is quite unnecessary. All that is to be done I can very well accomplish by myself."

Upon this his new master made a few further inquiries, asking him what sort of a hatchet he
had got, for he had noticed that his supposed servant was without one.

"Oh," said Rubezahl, "I'll soon get a hatchet."

Accordingly he laid hands upon his left leg, and pulled that and his foot and all off at the
thigh, and with it cut, as if he had been raving mad, all the wood into small pieces of proper
lengths and sizes in about a quarter of an hour, thus proving that a dismembered foot is a
thousand times more effectual for such purposes than the sharpest axe.

In the meanwhile the owner (who saw plainly that mischief was intended) kept calling upon the
wondrous woodcutter to desist and go about his business. Rubezahl, however, kept incessantly
answering--

"No, I won't stir from this spot until I have hewn the wood as small as I agreed to, and have
got my wages for so doing."

In the midst of such quarrelling Rubezahl finished his job, and screwed his leg on again, for
while at work he had been standing on one leg, after the fashion of a stork. Then he gathered
together into one bundle all he had cut, placed it on his shoulder, and started off with it
towards his favourite retreat, heedless of the tears and lamentations of his master.

On this occasion Rubezahl did not appear in the character of a sportive or mischievous spirit,
but as an avenger of injustice, for his employer had induced a number of poor men to bring
wood to his home upon the promise of paying them wages, which, however, he had never paid them.
Rubezahl laid at the door of each of these poor men as much of the wood he carried away as
would repay them, and so the business was brought to a proper termination.

       *       *       *       *       *

It once happened that a messenger vexed or played some trick upon Rubezahl, who thereupon revenged
himself in the following manner, and so wiped out the score.

The messenger, in one of his journeys over the mountains, entered an hotel to refresh himself,
and placed his spear as usual behind the door. No sooner had he done so than Rubezahl carried
off the spear, transformed himself into a similar one, and took its place.

When the messenger, after taking his rest, set forth again with the spear, and had got some
little way on his journey, it began slipping about every now and then in such a manner that
the messenger began pitching forward into the most intolerable mire, and got himself sadly
bespattered. It did this so often that at last he could not tell for the soul of him what had
come to the spear, or why he kept slipping forward with it instead of seizing fast hold of
the ground.

He looked at it longways and sideways, from above, from underneath, but in spite of all his
attempts, no change could he discover.

After this inspection he went forward a little way, when suddenly he was once more plunged
into the morass, and commenced crying--

"Woe is me! woe is me!" at his spear, which led him into such scrapes, and did nothing to release
him from them. At length he got himself once more to rights, and then he turned the spear the
wrong way upwards. No sooner had he done so than he was driven backwards instead of forwards,
and so got into a worse plight than ever.

After this he laid the spear across his shoulder like a pikeman, since it was no use to trail
it upon the earth, and in this fashion he started on. But Rubezahl continued his tricks by
pressing on the messenger as though he had got a yoke on his back. He changed the spear from
one shoulder to the other, until at last, from very weariness, he threw away the bewitched
weapon, imagining that the Evil One must possess it, and went his way without it.

He had not proceeded above a quarter of a mile, when, looking carelessly about him, he was
astounded to find his spear by his side. He was sadly frightened, and little knew what to make
of it. At last he boldly ventured to lay hands upon it. He did so, and lifted it up, but he
could not conceive how he should carry it. He had no desire to trail it any more on the ground,
and the thought of carrying it on his shoulder made him shudder. He decided, however, to give
it another trial, carrying it in his hand. Fresh troubles now arose. The spear weighed so heavy
that he could not stir it a foot from the spot, and though he tried first one hand and then
another, all his efforts were in vain.

At last he bethought him of riding upon the spear, as a child bestrides a stick. A wonderful
change now came over the weapon. It ran on as though it had been a fleet horse, and thus mounted
the messenger rode on without ceasing until he descended the mountain and came into the city,
where he excited the wonder, delight, and laughter of the worthy burghers.

Although he had endured some trouble in the early part of his journey, the messenger thought
he had been amply compensated at the close, and he comforted himself by making up his mind
that in all future journeys he was destined to perform he would bestride his nimble spear.
His good intentions were, however, frustrated. Rubezahl had played his game, and had had all
the amusement he desired with the poor knave. Accordingly he scampered away, leaving in his
place the real spear, which never played any more tricks, but, after the old fashion of other
spears, accompanied its master in a becoming and orderly style.

       *       *       *       *       *

A poor woman, who got her living by gathering herbs, once went, accompanied by her two children,
to the mountains, carrying with her a basket in which to gather the plants, which she was in
the habit of disposing of to the apothecaries. Having chanced to discover a large tract of
land covered with such plants as were most esteemed, she busied herself so in filling her basket
that she lost her way, and was troubled to find out how to get back to the path from which
she had wandered. On a sudden a man dressed like a peasant appeared before her, and said--

"Well, good woman, what is it you are looking for so anxiously? and where do you want to go?"

"Alas!" replied she, "I am a poor woman who has neither bit nor sup, for which reason I am
obliged to wander to gather herbs, so that I may buy bread for myself and my hungry children.
I have lost my way, and cannot find it. I pray you, good man, take pity on me, and lead me
out of the thicket into the right path, so that I may make the best of my way home."

"Well, my good woman," replied Rubezahl, for it was he, "make yourself happy. I will show you
the way. But what good are those roots to you? They will be of little benefit. Throw away this
rubbish, and gather from this tree as many leaves as will fill your basket; you will find them
answer your purpose much better."

"Alas!" said the woman, "who would give a penny for them? They are but common leaves, and good
for nothing."

"Be advised, my good woman," said Rubezahl; "throw away those you have got, and follow me."

He repeated his injunction over and over again in vain, until he got tired, for the woman would
not be persuaded. At last, he fairly laid hold of the basket, threw the herbs out by main force,
and supplied their place with leaves from the surrounding bushes. When he had finished, he
told the woman to go home, and led her into the right path.

The woman, with her children and her basket, journeyed on some distance; but they had not gone
far before she saw some valuable herbs growing by the wayside. No sooner did she perceive them
than she longed to gather them, for she hoped that she should obtain something for them, while
the leaves with which her basket was crammed were, she thought, good for nothing. She accordingly
emptied her basket, throwing away the rubbish, as she esteemed it, and having filled it once
more with roots, journeyed on to her dwelling at Kirschdorf.

As soon as she arrived at her home she cleansed the roots she had gathered from the earth which
clung around them, tied them neatly together, and emptied everything out of the basket. Upon
doing this, something glittering caught her eye, and she commenced to make a careful examination
of the basket. She was surprised to discover several ducats sticking to the wickerwork, and
these were clearly such of the leaves as remained of those which she had so thoughtlessly thrown
away on the mountains.

She rejoiced at having preserved what she had, but she was again sorely vexed that she had
not taken care of all that the mountain spirit had gathered for her. She hastened back to the
spot where she had emptied the basket, in hopes of finding some of the leaves there; but her
search was in vain--they had all vanished.

THE HUNTER HACKELNBERG AND THE TUT-OSEL.

The Wild Huntsman, Hackelnberg, traverses the Hartz mountains and the Thuringian forest, but
he seems mostly to prefer the Hakel, from which place he derives his name, and especially the
neighbourhood of Dummburg. Ofttimes is he heard at night, in rain and storm, when the moonlight
is breaking by fits and starts through the troubled sky, following with his hounds the shadows
of the wild beasts he slew in days of yore. His retinue generally proceed from the Dummburg,
straight over the Hakel to the now desolate village of Ammendorf.

He has only been seen by a few children, who, having been born on a Sunday, had the power of
seeing spirits. Sometimes he met them as a lonely huntsman, accompanied by one solitary hound.
Sometimes he was seen in a carriage drawn by four horses, and followed by six dogs of the chase.
But many have heard the low bellowing of his hounds, and the splashing of his horse's feet
in the swamps of the moor; many have heard his cry of "Hu! hu!" and seen his associate and
forerunner--the Tut-Osel, or Tooting Ursula.

Once upon a time three wanderers seated themselves in the neighbourhood of the Dummburg. The
night was already far advanced. The moon gleamed faintly through the chasing clouds. All around
was still. Suddenly they heard something rush along over their heads. They looked up, and an
immense screech-owl flew before them.

"Ha!" cried one of them, "there is the Tut-Osel! Hackelnberg, the Wild Huntsman, is not far off."

"Let us fly," exclaimed the second, "before the spirits overtake us."

"We cannot fly," said the third; "but you have nothing to fear if you do not irritate him.
Lay yourselves down upon your faces when he passes over us. But, remember, you must not think
of addressing Hackelnberg, lest he treat you as he treated the shepherd."

The wanderers laid themselves under the bushes. Presently they heard around them the rushing
by, as it were, of a whole pack of hounds, and high in the air above them they heard a hollow
sound like that of a hunted beast of the forest, and ever and anon they trembled at hearing
the fearful-toned voice of the Wild Huntsman uttering his well-known "Hu! hu!" Two of the wanderers
pressed close to the earth, but the third could not resist his inclination to have a peep at
what was going on. He looked up slantingly through the branches, and saw the shadow of a huntsman
pass directly over him.

Suddenly all around was hushed. The wanderers rose slowly and timidly, and looked after Hackelnberg;
but he had vanished, and did not return.

"But who is the Tut-Osel?" inquired the second wanderer, after a long pause.

"In a distant nunnery in Thuringia," replied the first, "there once lived a nun named Ursula,
who, even during her lifetime, tormented all the sisterhood by her discordant voice, and oftentimes
interrupted the service of the church, for which reason they called her Tut-Osel, or Tooting
Ursula. If matters were bad while she lived, they became far worse when she died. At eleven
o'clock every night she now thrust her head through a hole in the convent tower and tooted
most miserably, and every morning at about four o'clock she joined unasked in the matin song.

"For a few days the sisterhood endured this with a beating heart, and on bended knees; but
on the fourth morning, when she joined in the service, and one of the nuns whispered tremblingly
to her neighbour--

"'Ha! it is surely our Tut-Osel!' the song ceased, the hair of the nuns stood on end, and they
all rushed from the church, exclaiming--

"'Ha! Tut-Osel! Tut-Osel!'

"Despite the penances and chastisements with which they were threatened, not one of the nuns
would enter the church again until the Tut-Osel was banished from the walls of the nunnery.
To effect this, one of the most celebrated exorcists of the day, a Capuchin friar, from a cloister
on the banks of the Danube, was sent for; and he succeeded, by prayer and fasting, in banishing
Ursel in the shape of a screech-owl to the far-distant Dummburg.

"Here she met Hackelnberg, the Wild Huntsman, and found in his wood-cry, 'Hu! hu!' as great
delight as he did in her 'U! hu!' So they now always hunt together; he glad to have a spirit
after his own kind, and she rejoiced in the extreme to be no longer compelled to reside within
the walls of a cloister, and there listen to the echo of her own song."

"So much for the Tut-Osel. Now tell us how it fared with the shepherd who spoke to Hackelnberg."

"Listen to the marvellous adventure," said the third wanderer. "A shepherd once hearing the
Wild Huntsman journeying through the forest, encouraged the spirit hounds, and called out--

"'Good sport to you, Hackelnberg.'

"Hackelnberg instantly turned round and roared out to him, in a voice like thunder--

"'Since you have helped me to set on the hounds, you shall have part of the spoil.'

"The trembling shepherd tried to hide himself, but Hackelnberg hurled the half-consumed haunch
of a horse into the shepherd's cart with such violence that it could scarcely be removed."

THE ALRAUN.

It is a well-known tradition near Magdeburg, that when a man who is a thief by inheritance,--that
is to say, whose father and grandfather and great-grandfather before him, three generations
of his family, have been thieves; or whose mother has committed a theft, or been possessed
with an intense longing to steal something at the time immediately preceding his birth; it
is the tradition that if such a man should be hanged, at the foot of the gallows whereon his
last breath was exhaled will spring up a plant of hideous form known as the Alraun or Gallows
Mannikin. It is an unsightly object to look at, and has broad, dark green leaves, with a single
yellow flower. The plant, however, has great power, and whosoever is its possessor never more
knows what it is to want money.

It is a feat full of the greatest danger to obtain it. If not taken up from the root, clean
out of the soil, it is altogether valueless, and he who makes the experiment wantonly risks
his life. The moment the earth is struck with the spade, the bitterest cries and shrieks burst
forth from it, and while the roots are being laid bare demons are heard to howl in horrid concert.
When the preparatory work is done, and when the hand of the daring man is laid on the stem
to pluck forth his prize, then is it as if all the fiends of hell were let loose upon him,
such shrieking, such howling, such clanging of chains, such crashing of thunder, and such flashing
of forked lightning assail him on every side. If his heart fail him but for one moment his
life is forfeit. Many a bold heart engaged in this trial has ceased to beat under the fatal
tree; many a brave man's body has been found mangled and torn to pieces on that accursed spot.

There is, however, happily, only one day in the month, the first Friday, on which this plant
appears, and on the night of that day only may it be plucked from its hiding-place. The way
it is done is this. Whoso seeks to win it fasts all day. At sundown he sets forth on his fearful
adventure, taking with him a coal-black hound, which has not a single fleck of white on its
whole body, and which he has compelled likewise to fast for four-and-twenty hours previously.
At midnight he takes his stand under the gallows, and there stuffs his ears with wool or wax,
so that he may hear nothing. As the dread hour arrives, he stoops down and makes three crosses
over the Alraun, and then commences to dig for the roots in a perfect circle around it. When
he has laid it entirely bare, so that it only holds to the ground by the points of its roots,
he calls the hound to him, and ties the plant to its tail. He then shows the dog some meat,
which he flings to a short distance from the spot. Ravenous with hunger, the hound springs
after it, dragging the plant up by the root, but before he can reach the tempting morsel he
is struck dead as by some invisible hand.

The adventurer, who all the while stood by the plant to aid in its uprooting should the strength
of the animal prove insufficient, then rushes forward, and, detaching it from the body of the
dead hound, grasps it firmly in both hands. He then wraps it up carefully in a silken cloth,
first, however, washing it well in red wine, and then bears it homeward. The hound is buried
in the spot whence the Alraun has been extracted.

On reaching home the man deposits his treasure in a strong chest, with three locks, and only
visits it every first Friday in the month, or, rather, after the new moon. On these occasions
he again washes it with red wine, and enfolds it afresh in a clean silken cloth of white and
red colours.

If he has any question to ask, or any request to make, he then puts the one or proffers the
other. If he wish to know of things in the future, the Alraun will tell him truly, but he will
only get one answer in the moon, and nothing else will be done for him by the plant. If he
desire to obtain some substantial favour, he has it performed for him on making his request,
but then the Alraun will answer no inquiries as to the future until the next day of visitation
shall arrive.

Whoso has this wonder of the world in his possession can never take harm from his foes, and
never sustain any loss. If he be poor, he at once becomes rich. If his marriage be unblest
by offspring, he at once has children.

If a piece of gold be laid beside the Alraun at night, it is found to be doubled in the morning,
and so on for any sum whatsoever, but never has it been known to be increased more than two
pieces for each one.

On the demise of the owner only a youngest son can inherit the Alraun. To inherit it effectually
he must place a loaf of white bread and a piece of money in the coffin of his father, to be
buried along with his corpse. If he fail to do so, then is the possession, like many others
of great name in the world, of no value to him. Should, however, the youngest son fail before
the father, then the Alraun rightfully belongs to the eldest, but he must also place bread
and money in the coffin of his brother, as well as in that of his father, to inherit it to
any purpose.

The princess got down, and knelt over the brook and drank, for she was frightened, and dared
not bring out her cup; and she wept, and said--

"Alas! what will become of me?"

