Louis knowing that Kossuth was in sore need of funds for his political enterprises, sent a
messenger to him to intimate that he would join forces with him; that he would supply him financially
with all he would require in the way of ready cash. Kossuth was not averse from receiving in
good part Napoleon's advances, though he offered temporary resistance. He saw clearly that
if France were to help Italy, Austria would be weakened, Newman tells us that when Napoleon
announced in 1858 that he was about to marry Clotilde, daughter of the King of Sardinia, Kossuth
at once said to him: "I have always resisted Napoleon's overtures, but I expect now that I
shall be forced to visit him in Paris, because I now see that he is resolved upon war against
Austria. This Piedmontese marriage is evidently his pledge also to Italians that he means to
drive Austria out of Italy."

Then, in 1859, a few inimical words which Napoleon spoke to the Austrian ambassador showed
very clearly to what quarter the political wind in France had veered. "War was felt to be intended,
and Russia was no longer a support to Austria behind."

In March, or a little later, Kossuth and Pulszky were invited to Paris, and were met, very
cordially, at the station by Prince Napoleon, cousin to the Emperor. Later, Louis Napoleon
himself spoke with them, and said very frankly that he had never had any special idea of assisting
Hungary, but that in case he could not settle affairs in Italy, as regarded his war with Austria,
and he should find himself obliged to send his army into Croatia, he wanted advice with respect
to many details regarding this province, which he knew that Kossuth could give him. Newman
was the recipient of Kossuth's communications concerning this secret interview with Napoleon.
And he told him that besides needing his advice about Croatia, he wanted him (knowing he had
influence in England) "to drive Lord Derby out of office." I quote Napoleon's words as recorded
by Newman.

"The French army is very formidable; but I cannot pretend that in it I have such superiority
to Austria that I may expect easy or certain success. My only clear superiority is on the sea.
As Louis Philippe before, so have I from the first carefully nursed my fleet. Hereby I override
Austria in the Adriatic--a most critical advantage.... I cannot be sure but that without declaring
war, or giving warning, he (Lord Derby) may all at once strike a blow which will annihilate
my fleet, and then what could compensate me? If you can find any way of moving discontent against
this ministry, I want you to cripple or eject him."

Newman adds that Kossuth did not tell him what reply he himself gave to all this.

Everyone knows the sequel to this. After Lord Derby had resigned in March, Lord Palmerston
took office. In May the Austrians were defeated; and this defeat was followed by more disaster
for them, and the end of the whole matter resolved itself into a peace between Francis Joseph
and Louis Napoleon.

Then it was that the latter proclaimed freedom from Austrian supremacy to all Italy; and now
came the end for which Kossuth had struggled, and longed, and waited. Napoleon despatched a
messenger to him asking what demands Kossuth wished now to make. His prompt answer was delivered
thus to the envoy:--

"Sir, I have two demands on your master: First, he must extract from the Emperor Francis Joseph
an amnesty for every Hungarian or Croatian soldier who has taken military service under the
King of Sardinia. Secondly, no man thus amnestied shall ever be pressed into the Austrian army."

A fortnight went by, and Kossuth heard nothing from the Emperor. Then, when at last the news
came, it was almost too good to be true. Francis Joseph had agreed to both stipulations.

In August, 1860, Francis Newman, writing from Keswick, touches on the progress in success made
by the Italian patriot, Garibaldi.

"I do not think you can be dissatisfied with Garibaldi's progress. Louis N. could have stopt
[sic] him, and ruined his hopes for ever, by one word to Austria as soon as Garibaldi landed
in Sicily. On the contrary, he has sternly forbidden Austria to meddle at all in Italy, and
has allowed Cavour to proclaim in Parliament that L. N.'s greatest merit to Italy is not the
great battle of Solferino, but his having avowed in his letter to the Pope that priests shall
no longer rule in Italy.... When Hungary is free, all views will change, and perhaps France also."

Kossuth and Pulszky, who had visited England constantly between the years 1851 and 1860, finally
left our shores for good in the latter year, Kossuth for Italy, for he took no further share
in politics, and Pulszky for Hungary, where he became Finance Minister to Francis Joseph's
new constitutional monarchy.

Before finally leaving England, Kossuth gave to Newman his own "reading" of the real character
of Louis Napoleon. He said: "Louis Napoleon is a man at whom, on account of his coup d'etat,
[Footnote: Louis Napoleon's raid on the French citizens, in violation of his promises, in order
to make himself supreme.] I shudder, and it may seem a duty to hate him. Yet I am bound to
say, not only has he been wholly faithful to us, but every time I have been closeted with him
I have come away with a higher opinion, not only of his talents and sagacity, but also of his
morals." The italics are mine. It seems difficult for the outsider to-day quite to sign to
this point of view, when one remembers Louis Napoleon's deception and his broken honour and
cruelty. There is a very enlightening and suggestive passage in one of Robert Louis Stevenson's
books, "To travel happily is better than to arrive." In Kossuth's case the reverse was true.
He travelled towards his goal unhappily, but he "arrived," and that was a reward which is not
given to every patriot who gives his life to win his country's freedom.

In Hungary in 1851, by Charles Loring Brace, there are many keenly interesting details about
Kossuth. Mr. Brace made a tour in Europe, chiefly on foot, during the spring of 1851, and met
Kossuth in Pesth; his mother was then living there. "To say that Kossuth is beloved here seems
hardly necessary after what I have seen. He is idolized. Every word and trait of his character
is remembered with an indescribable affection ..."; but they all acknowledged, he added, that
he did not possess the necessary gifts for a revolutionary leader. Still, he moved his countrymen
in so stirring a manner that they would have followed him anywhere. "He 'agitated' the whole
land, and there is not a Bauer in the villages or a Csikos (wild cattle driver) on the prairies,
they say, who does not remember as the day of days the time when he listened to those thrilling
tones ... as they spoke ... of the wrongs of their beloved Fatherland."

This is a short account by a journalist who knew him personally, and was present at the time,
of the manner in which Kossuth was received in Scotland during his visit to Britain:--

"In travelling from Edinburgh to Perth, Kossuth was received at every station by vast crowds
of people, including many ladies, with vociferous cheers and waving of hats and handkerchiefs.
This was particularly the case at Stirling, where hundreds crowded up to the carriage in which
he sat to grasp his hand."

One day it was suggested that Kossuth, Colonel Ibaz his aide-de-camp, and the journalist should
go for a drive up Kinnoul Hill, near Perth. "We soon got into a rough country road winding
among the farms. At one place the carriage came to a stand while a gate had to be opened to
allow it to pass through. At this gate stood a tall, venerable-looking farmer, with long white
hair and beard ... who might have served as a painter's model for an old Scottish Covenanter.
He stood ready to open the gate.... He had, of course, heard of Kossuth's invitation to lecture
in Perth, and at once divined that the carriage might contain his hero, as all visitors to
Perth ascend the Hill of Kinnoul.... In a very deep and solemn voice he said ... 'I reckon
that Loois Koshoot is in this carriage. Am I richt? Whuch is him?' Kossuth leaned forward and
said in a very gracious manner, 'Yes, he is, good man. I am Louis Kossuth.' Whereupon the venerable
man reverently took off his bonnet, came close up, grasped Kossuth's hand in both his own,
and said, 'God bless you, sir, an' may He prosper you in your great waurk to free yer kintra
frae the rod o' the oppressor. May He strengthen ye and croon ye wi' victory....'

"Colonel Ihaz was a bronzed, stern-looking officer, perhaps ten years older than his chief;
yet with all his military stiffness and sternness he was quite capable of relaxing into ordinary
human feelings and becoming quite a facetious old fellow under favourable conditions. He could
speak very little English. He enjoyed the humour of some Scottish stories and anecdotes I told,
and which Kossuth translated for him. He was greatly pleased and amused when I initiated him
into the art and mystery of concocting a tumbler of whisky toddy as a proper and orthodox finish
to the evening.... He thoroughly appreciated the beverage, smacking his lips ... and exclaiming
with gusto, 'Toddo is goot. Toddo very goot.'" He mentions that Kossuth was keenly interested
in Scottish ballads and stories, etc., and he actually learnt one ballad by heart, "which for
thrilling passion, and power, and sweetness ... were never equalled by human voice. His appeals
... were addressed exceedingly often to the religious feelings of his hearers. In fact, this
tendency of his is perhaps one great secret of his power over the people of Hungary--for the
peasantry of that land, beyond that of almost any other, are remarkable for a simple, reverent
piety."

When, after the deliverance of Hungary from the yoke of Austria, Kossuth was made Governor,
Brace says that he considers he belonged, by reason of his talent for organization and finance,
to the highest rank of statesmen. He had not "the unrelenting, tremendous force of a Cromwell
or Napoleon, or the iron will of a Jackson...." But he has shown that a man "could be a military
Dictator without staining his hands either in the blood of his rivals or of his friends."

"One of the privates in an Austrian regiment stationed in Vienna, himself a Hungarian, was
overheard by his officer to say 'Eljen Kossuth!' He was ordered 'five-and-twenty' at once.
It appears when a man is flogged in the Austrian army he is obliged by law to thank the officer.
This the Hungarian refused to do. Another 'five-and-twenty' were given him. Still he refused.
Again another flogging; and the Hungarian, as he rose, muttered his thanks with the words,
'My back belongs to the Emperor, but my heart to Kossuth.'"

In regard to Kossuth's manner of delivery in his great public speeches, Mr. Brace says: "His
opening words, they say, were like Hungarian national airs, always low and plaintive in the
utterance.... But gradually his face lighted up, his voice deepened and swelled with his feeling,"
and there came forth tones which thrilled his hearers with a strange rousing power.

CHAPTER XII

FOUR BARBARISMS OF CIVILIZATION

In every civilization there will always be found, sheltering under its wall, evil things not
yet brought to book--not yet revealed in their true nature, but still dragging back the wheel
of true progress and the betterment of humanity. Yet though they come "in such a questionable
shape," it is often not until someone ahead of his or her age, pulls them into the open glare
of another point of view, and thus shows up all their hidden moral leprosy, that the arrow
of condemnation is driven full-tilt at them from the stretched bow of a Higher Criticism.

In Francis Newman's Miscellanies, Vol. III, four of these evil things are dragged by him into
the open daylight of a mind far ahead of its age, and these four are: Cruelty to Animals; Degradation
of Man, as brought about by the drink traffic; War, as the great throw-back to Civilization;
Punishment as understood in England, and our own methods of reform as regards the treatment
of misdemeanants.

To take the first of these--Cruelty to Animals. Of course there are three kinds: Legalized
cruelty, cruelty caused by thoughtlessness, and cruelty caused in order to give pleasure to
men and women. Of the first--well, of course this has to do with vivisection, said to be carried
on for the advancement of science and for the sake of alleviating the sufferings of humanity.

As regards the first reason, men who know what they are talking about are pretty generally
agreed that science has not largely benefited by vivisection. As regards the second, it is
by no means sure that anything can be proved of direct use to mankind from discoveries made
by doctors and scientists after operating on animals. "What sort of tenderness for man can
we expect from surgeons who can thus teach by torture, or from students who can endure to listen?"
Here Francis Newman puts his finger on a very significant factor in the case--that of the barbarizing,
the deteriorating of the mind that cannot touch the black pitch of torture and not be defiled.

Everyone will remember the words of Lord Shaftesbury, one of the greatest men of his day: "I
would rather be, before God, the poor victim in the torture-trough than the vivisector beside
him." And it is this point also which is of importance in the vivisection question--not the
point of view alone of the animal tortured, but as well the inevitable effect on the vivisector.
For there are some things undeniably which, when done, do not leave the man who does them where
he was before in the moral scale.

As Archdeacon Wilberforce says: "If all that is claimed by vivisectors were true--and I absolutely
disbelieve it--the noblest attitude would be to refuse physical benefit obtained at the cost
of secrets stolen from other lives by hideous torture." These words exactly express the attitude
of all thoughtful men and women who feel the impossibility of accepting help at the cost of
such torture to the lower creation by what the Archdeacon very aptly calls the "barbarities
of science."

Well may Francis Newman say: "When we ask by what right a man tortures these innocent creatures,
the only reply that can be given is, because we are more intelligent. If in the eye of God
this is justifiable, then a just God might permit a devil to torture us in the cause of diabolic
science.... To cut up a living horse day after day in order to practise students in dissection
is a crime and abomination hardly less monstrous from his not having an immortal soul. An inevitable
logic would in a couple of generations unteach all tenderness towards human suffering if such
horrors are endured, and carry us back into greater heartlessness than that of the worst barbarians."
The bill in 1876, of which the chief aim was to amend the law, to regulate better the doings
of vivisectors, insisted on the fact that a licence from the Home Secretary was to be a sine
qua non in the case of all who practised these experiments upon animals. But experience of
the way in which this law works shows quite clearly that very inadequate inspection takes place,
because in so many cases inspectors and vivisectors play into each other's hands.

Of the other kinds of cruelty, those caused by thoughtlessness and in order to minister to
the pleasure of men and women are very many and very present to us. I use the word "thoughtlessness,"
but perhaps it would be nearer the truth to say lack of power to realize, for thoughtlessness
can no longer be pleaded by those women who persist in wearing aigrettes, and other plumage
of birds. The barbarous method has been too often described to them by which these aigrettes
are procured: how the plumes are torn from the males of the small white heron; how, this appalling
cruelty perpetrated, the birds are left to die on the shore. Women of fashion cannot but be
aware how wholesale this savage slaughter of the innocents is; that each bird only contributes
one-sixth of an ounce of aigrette plumes; that we are told that thousands of ounces of plumes
are sold by one firm during the course of one season alone. It is not too much to say that
each woman's bonnet in which these plumes (so barbarously procured) figure, is a veritable
juggernaut car. It is not alone for fashion's sake that we perpetrate these barbarisms, however,
for what can be said in defence of cruelties practised upon animals for the sake of man's stomach?
Of the method in vogue now of stuffing capons by means of an instrument which forces food down
their throats relentlessly in order to make them of great size and of tender flesh? or of calves
being slowly bled to death that their flesh may be white? What of the horrors which precede
the making of pate de foie gras? The name of these atrocities is legion, however, and it is
useless to enumerate them here. Fashion loves to have it so, and the ordinary diner does not
trouble his head about the terrible ordeal of the animal which has preceded the delicacy for
himself. But, putting his dinner aside, the Englishman's sport is often not far removed from
barbaric.

Look at coursing! What can be the nature that can take pleasure in seeing an absolutely defenceles
animal let out in a confined space, with no chance of escape, no fair play at all, nothing
in front of it but certain death whichever way it turns? What can be the nature which can enjoy
the death-scream of the agonized hare as the dogs' fangs dig into the quivering flesh? Coursing
is nothing more nor less than an absolutely degrading sport to the beholders.

There is no sport, in the right acceptation of the word, in it at all. At any rate, there is
far more of the element of real sport in fox-hunting or in stag-hunting, especially in those
districts where one is told that the stag practically enters into the spirit of the game, when,
after a good run, it pauses, and is helped into the cart which is to take it into "home cover"
again! Be that as it may, at least there is some fair play to the quarry. In coursing that
is an unknown quantity.

"The accomplished Englishman shoots for sport. Sport, being a mental impulse or appetite, is
insatiable, and therefore far more deadly than hunger.... A boast is made that ninety millions
of rabbits are reared for the consumption of our nation. Ninety million rabbits sent out at
large to nibble the young shoots of the growing crops--each of whom destroys and wastes ten
times what a tame rabbit would eat in a hutch--are boasted of as an increase of our supplies!
If twenty million of these reach the town markets, it is much; how many beside are cruelly
massacred with no profit to man! and how many beside, with unhappy hares, foxes, rats, stoats,
and weasels, are held for days and nights in lingering torture by horrible steel traps? All
this goes on in the midst of refinement, without prohibition from men or remonstrance from
women. It is a fruit of the modern English system of game preserving;... and the artificial
love of sport which cruel Norman tradition has fostered in the stolid Anglo-Saxon race." [Footnote:
"On Cruelty" (Miscellanies, III, by Francis W. Newman).] It is an unassailable truth that if
you look for the last remains of barbarity in a civilized nation you will find them in their
sports. But I confess that to me it is difficult to justify a woman's love of sport when it
is combined--before her very eyes--with the suffering of an animal. Yet I heard only the other
day of a woman who boasted that she had been among the few "in at the death" one day in fox-
hunting, and that when the brush was given to her, her face was spattered with the blood of
the fox.

To turn to another "barbarism of civilization"--the subject of the Drink Traffic.

Newman's words about this come with startling appositeness to-day, when we are all eager as
regards the pros and cons of the new Licensing Act, and when all the publicans in the country
are watching anxiously in fear of the ruin it may spell for themselves. Thirty years ago Francis
Newman flung these words broadcast into the country:--

"Parliament ignominiously sits on the beer barrel. The thirty-three millions a year" (which
was the revenue in 1877 derived from "complicity with distillers and brewers"), "are to every
Ministry like the proverbial wolf which the woodsman holds by the ears. To keep him is difficult,
to let him go is dangerous. Their position is becoming worse than embarrassing when the best
men of every class, and all the women who see the public miseries, condemn the deadly policy
of bartering national morality for payments to the exchequer.... The mode in which those in
power fight to retain the public immoralities proclaims the quality of their motives. As one
example out of several, see with what tenacity the Sunday sale of intoxicating drink in Ireland
is kept up, after it is visible that Ireland disapproves, and after the English Parliament
has voted with Ireland. Trickery is here the only right word; but trickery cannot in the long
run support any cause. In this matter, as in several others, national indignation is ripening.
Many old ways will have to be reversed, among which the treatment of the drink traffic has
quite a leading place."

He then goes on to treat in detail of the pros and cons of Sir Wilfrid Lawson's Bill, and its
principle of Popular Local Control; also of those of Mr. Joseph Cowen's Bill on the same subject,
both belonging to the year in which he wrote his article on "Local Control of the Drink Traffic."
And he proceeds to consider the two alternatives: the Permissive Popular Veto, and the Popular
Control by an unfettered Licensing Board.

Later on Newman propounds his own opinion as to where the true remedy lies for the shocking
state of public morality in connection with the drink traffic. Almost invariably his remedies
for social evils are based on specialization. In this case he advises Licensing Boards in large
towns. He urges that each Board should have full power to frame its own restrictions, that
"no Board should be numerous: five or seven persons may be a full maximum"; that each Board
should be elective, "without power to bind their successors in the next year."

It is not difficult to see that his suggestion for a local Licensing Board has a great deal
that might be said for it. His idea as regards a Ward- Mote to settle difficulties in local
self-government in the same way would deal first hand with difficulties. In both cases these
local boards would obviate the necessity for the despatching of endless little Private Bills
to a Parliament which really has not time to deal effectually with them. Francis Newman certainly
taught a truth which only gets more insistent as year succeeds year, that specialization is
indeed the word of all others which holds within its letters in great measure "the healing
of the nations," the simplifying of their puzzles.

As regards the rights and wrongs of making war, Newman asks, "Why does one murder make a villain,
but the murder of thousands a hero?" And again, "Why do princes and statesmen, who would scorn
to steal a shilling, make no difficulty in stealing a kingdom?"

Before calling this, as many an Englishman would not hesitate to do, a topsy-turvy morality,
let us realize that sayings such as these really give us the true values of things as nothing
else could. For there are more sins "in heaven and earth than are dreamt of" in a nation's
classified immoralities. Stealing a shilling is a recognized immorality, and as such the law
of the land punishes the thief. Stealing a kingdom, however, is one of those national achievements
which men justify to themselves as a patriotic feat, or, it may be, a necessity of empire,
and it is not classified among punishable offences at all. And then it is necessary to remember
that many things that are indefensible when only a few do them, seem to become, by an extraordinary
method of reasoning, regarded as allowable when so many people do them that a spurious public
opinion and a decadent fashion is born, which shelters them and prevents the light of an unbiassed
judgment from showing up their shortcomings in morality. One has only to read up old records
of the eighteenth century to see how slavery flourished in England among otherwise honourable
men, and how public opinion condoned, nay, justified it to realize that public opinion regarded
as vox populi, is often many spiritual leagues away from being vox Dei.

Newman's point of view regarding war and extension of territory was not the popular one:--

"There are many who believe that the time will come when no weapons of war shall be forged,
and universal peace shall reign.... We also believe that a time will come when men will look
back in wonder and pity on our present barbarism; a time at which to begin a war--unless previously
justified by the verdict of an impartial tribunal, bound in honour to overlook what is partially
expedient to their own nation or party--will be esteemed a high and dreadful crime.

"The 'Governments' will never initiate such institutions until compelled by public opinion
and by the inevitable pressure of circumstances, nor is any nation in the world yet ripe to
put forth such pressure; otherwise it would not be difficult to devise a supreme court, or
rather jury, which would put a totally new moral aspect on war." [Footnote: Ethics of War,
Francis W. Newman.]

He goes on to say that a great many wars might have been avoided by us if we had been willing,
which we are not, to submit to arbitration; and he urges that war should be "declared in the
Capital... with the formal assent of Lords and Commons."

Under the present system, as he points out, when war is declared against any country, it is
not a necessity, as it was in the fourteenth century, that Parliament should be applied to
for consent and approval when the King of England wished to make war. Later, Henry V asked
Parliament what it would advise in "matters of foreign embroilment"; and when the King of France
wanted to make peace with him, he would do nothing in the matter until his Parliament had told
him "what will be most profitable and honourable to do in the matter."

But to-day, in arranging to make war or to make peace, it is the Cabinet-- the two or three
in the inner Chamber--who take all responsibility upon themselves. As often as not their decision
is largely influenced by party questions--and the questions do not depend on the morality of
the war, whether the reason for it is a just one or no. "It is the singular disgrace of modern
England, [Footnote: Deliberations before War, Francis Newman, 1859.] to have allowed the solemn
responsibility of war to be tampered with by the arbitrary judgment of executive officers;
... the nation permits war to be made, lives by the twenty thousand or fifty thousand to be
sacrificed, provinces to be confiscated, and permanent empire over foreign subjects established,
at the secret advice of a Cabinet, all of one party, acting collectively for party objects,
no one outside knowing how each has voted." Yet "the whole nation is implicated in a war, when
once it is undertaken, inasmuch as we all have the same national disgrace, if it is unjust;
the same suffering, if it is tedious; the same loss, if it is expensive"; and all the time,
"according to the current morality of Christendom, two nations may be engaged in deadly struggle,
and neither be in the wrong."

Newman attributes this present method of deciding war or peace by means of the Cabinet, rather
than the voice of the people as expressed by their representatives in assembled Parliament,
to the "anomaly of the East Indian Empire." Then, when the Board of Control was formed in 1784,
"the orders to make, or not to make war, went out direct from the Board of Control; that is,
really, from the ministry in Downing Street. Two, or even one, resolute man had power to make
war without check." The fatal war with Afghanistan in the eighteen-thirties which cost us so
dear in the matter of men and fame, was settled in England by "secret orders of two or three
executive officers of the Queen, without previous debate in Parliament." It is necessary to
remember, when thinking of the barbarisms which war brought in its train, not a hundred years
ago, that what Newman calls, very justly, "the atrocious system" of paying our soldiers and
sailors head-money for the numbers killed by them, was only done away with about sixty years ago.

But it is impossible even to touch here upon the unthinkable miseries which are inevitably
suffered by thousands of innocent men, women, and children whenever that Barbarism of Civilization,
War, marches through a land. Apart from all the devastation that marks its advent, no one can
know how indescribably far the real moral and industrial progress of civilization is retarded
by even what we consider a small war. As Newman says: "No one can wonder at the rise and progress
of an opinion that war is essentially an immoral state."

In connection with Punishments as understood in England, and Penal Reformation, [Footnote:
Corporal Punishments and Penal Reformation, Francis Newman, 1865.] he owns that "it has hitherto
been most difficult to discover what due punishment of felony will not demoralize the felon."
And of course, undoubtedly, that is the crux of the whole matter. But there is no one in England
to-day but will agree that some change in our prison system is imperatively needed. Only the
other day a woman, thoroughly qualified to judge, declared that the inevitable effect of prison
life on women was to make them lose their self-respect. It was a degradation and nothing else.
Now a punishment practically loses its whole point if it is simply a lowering, without any
building up; while apart from any other considerations, to herd, without due specialization,
a number of criminals and misdemeanants (for that last is the true description of very many
who are punished by this system of incarceration) tends, in many instances, to increase, by
"evil communications," the numbers of those who are in for a first offence only, and would
not, but for the enforced bad influence of others in prison, offend again. Newman's conclusion
of the whole matter as regards prisons is irrefragable: "In order to prevent crime, the institutions
which generate crime must be remodelled." He urges upon the nation's consideration that for
a great many cases which now fill our prisons (thereby adding enormously to the national expenses)
there is a very simple punishment, which has been condemned from many modern points of view
as being degrading to the sufferers and brutalizing to the inflictors.

"The infliction of flogging," he argues, undeniably answers in these cases, both as a sharp
and effectual punishment, and also as a deterrent from future misdoing. "To us it appears an
obvious certainty, that whatever punishment is believed to be righteous--whether the whipping
of a child, the shooting of a soldier, the constraint of the treadmill, or whatever else--is
wholly free from the least tendency to brutalize the officers who inflict it." As to the wisdom
of this statement, one would think, there could be no question. He quotes our old laws as regards
the practising of public floggings, and adds, "We cannot hesitate to believe that all outrages
on women ought to be punished by the severest whippings.... Dastardly offences against the
weak and the weaker sex eminently call for this punishment; and in such offences may be included
the seduction of a woman." That offences against the body should be visited by punishment on
the body is beyond all doubt just. Had we been in the past, or were we at the present moment,
as eager as we ought to be for defence, for justice, to be given to the citizeness as equally
as to the citizen, there would not be so many wrongs done to the weaker sex as now is the case
in England. Newman strongly condemns long sentences and transportation, not so much on account
of the prisoner, (though for him the long term of "doing time" with other criminals exercises
in most cases a distinct low moral tone upon himself) as on account of his wife and family,
if he is married. These people are left without news of him, and without their legal means
of subsistence during his absence. His wife often indeed, practically becomes a pauper.

"It is vain to talk of the evil of 'degrading' a criminal by flogging him, if we degrade him
by penal labour, subjecting him to a very ignominious and tedious slavery. It is vain to say
that whipping demoralizes, until we have a system of effective and severe punishment, clearly
free from this danger.... A felon destined to long penal servitude cannot fulfil a father's
duties, and no one is so weak as to imagine that his commands concerning his children deserve
respect.

       *       *       *       *       *

Legislation must deliberately study this problem, not wink at it." [Footnote: Corporal Punishments
and Penal Reformation.]

Perhaps when it does, something more stringent will be determined on concerning our regulations
as regards the marriage of criminals: those with insanity or inherited disease strongly marked
on their family records; and those who have shown the tendency to the latter in their own persons.

CHAPTER XIII

SOME LEGISLATIVE REFORMS SUGGESTED BY LECTURE AND ARTICLE

