Transcriber's note

   This electronic edition is intended to contain the complete,
   unaltered text of the first published edition of Gilbert
   Keith Chesterton by Maisie Ward (New York: Sheed & Ward,
   1943), with the following exceptions:

   The index, and a few other references to page numbers that do
   not exist in this edition, have been omitted.

   Italics are represented by underscores at the beginning and
   end, like this.

   Footnotes* have been placed directly below the paragraph
   referring to them and enclosed in brackets.

      [* Like this.]

   Any other deviations from the text of the first edition may be
   regarded as defects and attributed to the transcriber.

GILBERT KEITH CHESTERTON

by

MAISIE WARD

CONTENTS

Introduction: Chiefly Concerning Sources

CHAPTER

     I   Background for Gilbert Keith Chesterton
    II   Childhood
   III   School Days
    IV   Art Schools and University College
     V   The Notebook
    VI   Towards a Career
   VII   Incipit Vita Nova
  VIII   To Frances
    IX   A Long Engagement
     X   Who is G.K.C.?
    XI   Married Life in London
   XII   Clearing the Ground for Orthodoxy
  XIII   Orthodoxy
   XIV   Bernard Shaw
    XV   From Battersea to Beaconsfield
   XVI   A Circle of Friends
  XVII   The Disillusioned Liberal
 XVIII   The Eye Witness
   XIX   Marconi
    XX   The Eve of the War (1911-1915)
   XXI   The War Years
  XXII   After the Armistice
 XXIII   Rome via Jerusalem
  XXIV   Completion
   XXV   The Reluctant Editor (1925-1930)
  XXVI   The Distributist League and Distributism
 XXVII   Silver Wedding
XXVIII   Columbus
  XXIX   The Soft Answer
   XXX   Our Lady's Tumbler
  XXXI   The Living Voice
 XXXII   Last Days

Appendices:

Appendix A--An Earlier Chesterton Appendix B--Prize Poem Written at St. Paul's Appendix C--The
Chestertons

Bibliography

INTRODUCTION

Chiefly Concerning Sources

THE MATERIAL FOR this book falls roughly into two parts: spoken and written. Gilbert Chesterton
was not an old man when he died and many of his friends and contemporaries have told me incidents
and recalled sayings right back to his early boyhood. This part of the material has been unusually
rich and copious so that I could get a clearer picture of the boy and the young man than is
usually granted to the biographer.

The book has been in the making for six years and in three countries. Several times I hid it
aside for some months so as to be able to get a fresh view of it. I talked to all sorts of
people, heard all sorts of ideas, saw my subject from every side; I went to Paris to see one
old friend, to Indiana to see others, met for the first time in lengthy talk Maurice Baring,
H. G. Wells and Bernard Shaw; went to Kingsland to see Mr. Belloc; gathered Gilbert's boyhood
friends of the Junior Debating Club in London and visited "Father Brown" among his Yorkshire moors.

Armed with a notebook, I tried to miss none who had known Gilbert well, especially in his youth:
E. C. Bentley, Lucian Oldershaw, Lawrence Solomon, Edward Fordham. I had ten long letters from
Annie Firmin, my most valuable witness as to Gilbert's childhood. For information on the next
period of his life, I talked to Monsignor O'Connor, to Hilaire Belloc, Maurice Baring, Charles
Somers Cocks, F. Y. Eccles and others, besides being now able to draw on my own memories. Frances
I had talked with on and off about their early married years ever since I had first known them,
but she was, alas, too ill and consequently too emotionally unstrung during the last months
for me to ask her all the questions springing in my mind. "Tell Maisie," she said to Dorothy
Collins, "not to talk to me about Gilbert. It makes me cry."

For the time at Beaconsfield, out of a host of friends the most valuable were Dr. Pocock and
Dr. Bakewell. Among priests, Monsignors O'Connor and Ronald Knox, Fathers Vincent McNabb, O.P.
and Ignatius Rice, O.S.B. were especially intimate.

Dorothy Collins's evidence covers a period of ten years. That of H. G. Wells and Bernard Shaw
is reinforced by most valuable letters which they have kindly allowed me to publish.

Then too Gilbert was so much of a public character and so popular with his fellow journalists
that stories of all kinds abound: concerning him there is a kind of evidence, and very valuable
it is, that may be called a Boswell Collective. It is fitting that it should be so. We cannot
picture G.K. like the great lexicographer accompanied constantly by one ardent and observant
witness, pencil in hand, ready to take notes over the teacups. (And by the way, in spite of
an acquaintance who regretted in this connection that G.K. was not latterly more often seen
in taverns, it was over the teacups, even more than over the wine glasses, that Boswell made
his notes. I have seen Boswell's signature after wine--on the minutes of a meeting of The Club--and
he was in no condition then for the taking of notes. Even the signature is almost illegible.)
But it is fitting that Gilbert, who loved all sorts of men so much, should be kept alive for
the future by all sorts of men. From the focussing of many views from many angles this picture
has been composed, but they are all views of one man, and the picture will show, I think, a
singular unity. When Whistler, as Gilbert himself once said, painted a portrait he made and
destroyed many sketches--how many it did not matter, for all, even of his failures, were fruitful--but
it would have mattered frightfully if each time he looked up he found a new subject sitting
placidly for his portrait. Gilbert was fond of asking in the New Witness of people who expressed
admiration for Lloyd George: "Which George do you mean?" for, chameleon-like, the politician
has worn many colours and the portrait painted in 1906 would have had to be torn up in 1916.
But gather the Chesterton portraits: read the files when he first grew into fame: talk to Mr.
Titterton who worked with him on the Daily News in 1906 and on G.K.'s Weekly in 1936, collect
witnesses from his boyhood to his old age, from Dublin to Vancouver: individuals who knew him,
groups who are endeavoring to work out his ideas: all will agree on the ideas and on the man
as making one pattern throughout, one developing but integrated mind and personality.

Gathering the material for a biography bears some resemblance to interrogating witnesses in
a Court of Law. There are good witnesses and bad: reliable and unreliable memories. I remember
an old lady, a friend of my mother's, who remarked with candour after my mother had confided
to her something of importance: "My dear, I must go and write that down immediately before
my imagination gets mixed with my memory." One witness must be checked against another: there
will be discrepancies in detail but the main facts will in the end emerge.

Just now and again, however, a biographer, like a judge, meets a totally unreliable witness.

One event in this biography has caused me more trouble than anything else: the Marconi scandal
and the trial of Cecil Chesterton for criminal libel which grew out of it. As luck would have
it, it was on this that I had to interrogate my most unreliable witness. I had seen no clear
and unbiased account so I had to read the many pages of Blue Book and Law Reports besides contemporary
comment in various papers. I have no legal training, but one point stuck out like a spike.
Cecil Chesterton had brought accusations against Godfrey Isaacs not only concerning his own
past career as a company promoter, but also concerning his dealings with the government over
the Marconi contract, in connection with which he had also fiercely attacked Rufus Isaacs,
Herbert Samuel and other ministers of the Crown. But in the witness box he accepted the word
of the very ministers he had been attacking, and declared that he no longer accused them of
corruption: which seemed to me a complete abandonment of his main position.

Having drafted my chapter on Marconi, I asked Mrs. Cecil Chesterton to read it, but more particularly
to explain this point. She gave me a long and detailed account of how Cecil had been intensely
reluctant to take this course, but violent pressure had been exerted on him by his father and
by Gilbert who were both in a state of panic over the trial. Unlikely as this seemed, especially
in Gilbert's case, the account was so circumstantial, and from so near a connection, that I
felt almost obliged to accept it. What was my amazement a few months later at receiving a letter
in which she stated that after "a great deal of close research work, re-reading of papers,
etc." (in connection with her own book The Chestertons) and after a talk with Cecil's solicitors,
she had become convinced that Cecil had acted as he had because "the closest sleuthing had
been unable to discover any trace" of investments by Rufus Isaacs in English Marconis. "For
this reason Cecil took the course he did--not through family pressure. That pressure, I still
feel,* was exerted, though possibly not until the trial was over."

[* Italics mine.]

It was, then, the lady's feelings and not facts that had been offered to me as evidence, and
it was the merest luck that my book had not appeared before Cecil's solicitors had spoken.

The account given in Lord Birkenhead's Famous Trials is the Speech for the Prosecution. Mrs.
Cecil Chesterton's chapter is an impressionist sketch of the court scene by a friend of the
defendant. What was wanted was an impartial account, but I tried in vain to write it. The chronology
of events, the connection between the Government Commission and the Libel Case, the connection
between the English and American Marconi companies--it was all too complex for the lay mind,
so I turned the chapter over to my husband who has had a legal training and asked him to write
it for me.

The Chestertons is concerned with Gilbert and Frances as well as with Cecil; and the confusion
between memory and imagination--to say nothing of reliance on feelings unsupported by facts--pervades
the book. It can only be called a Legend, so long growing in Mrs. Cecil's mind that I am convinced
that when she came to write her book she firmly believed in it herself. The starting-point
was so ardent a dislike for Frances that every incident poured fuel on the flame and was seen
only by its light. When I saw her, the Legend was beginning to shape. She told me various stories
showing her dislike: facts offered by me were either denied or twisted to fit into the pattern.
I do not propose to discuss here the details of a thoroughly unreliable book. Most of them
I think answer themselves in the course of this biography. With one or two points I deal in
Appendix C. But I will set down here one further incident that serves to show just how little
help this particular witness could ever be.

For, like Cecil's solicitors, I spoilt one telling detail for her. She told me with great enthusiasm
that Cecil had said that Gilbert was really in love not with Frances but with her sister Gertrude,
and that Gertrude's red hair accounted for the number of red-headed heroines in his stories.
I told her, however, on the word of their brother-in-law, that Gertrude's hair was not red.
Mr. Oldershaw in fact seemed a good deal amused: he said that Gilbert never looked at either
of the other sisters, who were "not his sort," and had eyes only for Frances. Mrs. Cecil however
would not relinquish this dream of red hair and another love. In her book she wishes "red-gold"
hair on to Annie Firmin, because in the Autobiography Gilbert had described her golden plaits.
But unluckily for this new theory Annie's hair was yellow,* which is quite a different colour.
And Annie, who is still alive, is also amused at the idea that Gilbert had any thought of romance
in her connection.

[* See G.K.'s letter to her daughter, p. 633 [Chapter XXXI].]

When Frances Chesterton gave me the letters and other documents, she said: "I don't want the
book to appear in a hurry: not for at least five years. There will be lots of little books
written about Gilbert; let them all come out first. I want your book to be the final and definitive
Biography."

The first part of this injunction I have certainly obeyed, for it will be just seven years
after his death that this book appears. For the second half, I can say only that I have done
the best that in me lies to obey it also. And I am very grateful to those who have preceded
me with books depicting one aspect or another of my subject. I have tried to make use of them
all as part of my material, and some are "little" merely in the number of their pages. I am
especially grateful to Hilaire Belloc, Emile Cammaerts, Cyril Clemens and "Father Brown" (who
have allowed me to quote with great freedom). I want to thank Mr. Seward Collins, Mr. Cyril
Clemens and the University of Notre Dame for the loan of books; Mrs. Bambridge for the use
of a letter from Kipling and a poem from The Years Between.

Even greater has been the kindness of those friends of my own and of Gilbert Chesterton's who
have read this book in manuscript and made very valuable criticisms and suggestions: May Chesterton,
Dorothy Collins, Edward Connor, Ross Hoffman, Mrs. Robert Kidd, Arnold Lunn, Mgr. Knox, Father
Murtagh, Father Vincent McNabb, Lucian Oldershaw, Beatrice Warde, Douglas Woodruff, Monsignor
O'Connor.

Most of the criticisms were visibly right, while even those with which I could not concur showed
me the weak spot in my work that had occasioned them. They have helped me to improve the book--I
think I may say enormously.

One suggestion I have not followed--that one name should be used throughout: either Chesterton
or Gilbert or G.K., but not all three. I had begun with the idea of using "Chesterton" when
speaking of him as a public character and also when speaking of the days before I did in fact
call him "Gilbert." But this often left him and Cecil mixed up: then too, though I seldom used
"G.K." myself, other friends writing to me of him often used it. I began to go through the
manuscript unifying--and then I noticed that in a single paragraph of his Bernard Shaw Gilbert
uses "GBS," "Shaw," "Bernard Shaw," and "Mr. Shaw." Here was a precedent indeed, and it seemed
to me that it was really the natural thing to do. After all we do talk of people now by one
name, now by another: it is a matter of slight importance if of any, and I decided to let it go.

As to size, I am afraid the present book is a large one--although not as large as Boswell's
Johnson or Gone with the Wind. But in this matter I am unrepentant, for I have faith in Chesterton's
own public. The book is large because there is no other way of getting Chesterton on to the
canvas. It is a joke he would himself have enjoyed, but it is also a serious statement. For
a complete portrait of Chesterton, even the most rigorous selection of material cannot be compressed
into a smaller space. I have first written at length and then cut and cut.

At first I had intended to omit all matter already given in the Autobiography. Then I realised
that would never do. For some things which are vital to a complete Biography of Chesterton
are not only told in the Autobiography better than I could tell them, but are recorded there
and nowhere else. And this book is not merely a supplement to the Autobiography. It is the
Life of Chesterton.

The same problem arises with regard to the published books and I have tried to solve it on
the same line. There has rung in my mind Mr. Belloc's saying: "A man is his mind." To tell
the story of a man of letters while avoiding quotation from or reference to his published works
is simply not to tell it. At Christopher Dawson's suggestion I have re-read all the books in
the order in which they were written, thus trying to get the development of Gilbert's mind
perfectly clear to myself and to trace the influences that affected him at various dates. For
this reason I have analysed certain of the books and not others--those which showed this mental
development most clearly at various stages, or those (too many alas) which are out of print
and hard to obtain. But whenever possible in illustrating his mental history I have used unpublished
material, so that even the most ardent Chestertonian will find much that is new to him.

For the period of Gilbert's youth there are many exercise books, mostly only half filled, containing
sketches and caricatures, lists of titles for short stories and chapters, unfinished short
stories. Several completed fairy stories and some of the best drawings were published in The
Coloured Lands. Others are hints later used in his own novels: there is a fragment of The Ball
and the Cross, a first suggestion for The Man Who Was Thursday, a rather more developed adumbration
of The Napoleon of Notting Hill. This I think is later than most of the notebooks; but, after
the change in handwriting, apparently deliberately and carefully made by Gilbert around the
date at which he left St. Paul's for the Slade School, it is almost impossible to establish
a date at all exactly for any one of these notebooks. Notes made later when he had formed the
habit of dictation became difficult to read, not through bad handwriting, but because words
are abbreviated and letters omitted.

Some of the exercise books appear to have been begun, thrown aside and used again later. There
is among them one only of real biographical importance, a book deliberately used for the development
of a philosophy of life, dated in two places, to which I devote a chapter and which I refer
to as the Notebook. This book is as important in studying Chesterton as the Pensées would be
for a student of Pascal. He is here already a master of phrase in a sense which makes a comparison
with Pascal especially apt. For he often packs so much meaning into a brilliant sentence or
two that I have felt it worth while, in dealing especially with some of the less remembered
books, to pull out a few of these sentences for quotation apart from their context.

Other important material was to be found in G.K.'s Weekly, in articles in other periodicals,
and in unpublished letters. With some of the correspondences I have made considerable use of
both sides, and if anyone pedantically objects that that is unusual in a biography I will adapt
a phrase of Bernard Shaw's which you will find in this book, and say, "Hang it all, be reasonable!
If you had the choice between reading me and reading Wells and Shaw, wouldn't you choose Wells
and Shaw."

GILBERT KEITH CHESTERTON

CHAPTER I

Background for Gilbert Keith Chesterton

IT IS USUAL to open a biography with some account of the subject's ancestry. Chesterton, in
his Browning, after some excellent foolery about pedigree-hunting, makes the suggestion that
middle-class ancestry is far more varied and interesting than the ancestry of the aristocrat:

   The truth is that aristocrats exhibit less of the romance of
   pedigree than any other people in the world. For since it is their
   principle to marry only within their own class and mode of life,
   there is no opportunity in their case for any of the more interesting
   studies in heredity; they exhibit almost the unbroken uniformity of
   the lower animals. It is in the middle classes that we find the
   poetry of genealogy; it is the suburban grocer standing at his shop
   door whom some wild dash of Eastern or Celtic blood may drive
   suddenly to a whole holiday or a crime.

This may provide fun for a guessing game but is not very useful to a biographer. The Chesterton
family, like many another, had had the ups and downs in social position that accompany the
ups and downs of fortune. Upon all this Edward Chesterton, Gilbert's father, as head of the
family possessed many interesting documents. After his death, Gilbert's mother left his papers
undisturbed. But when she died Gilbert threw away, without examination, most of the contents
of his father's study, including all family records. Thus I cannot offer any sort of family
tree. But it is possible to show the kind of family and the social atmosphere into which Gilbert
Chesterton was born.

Some of the relatives say that the family hailed from the village of Chesterton--now merged
into Cambridge, of which they were Lords of the Manor, but Gilbert refused to take this seriously.
In an introduction to a book called Life in Old Cambridge, he wrote:

I have never been to Cambridge except as an admiring visitor; I have never been to Chesterton
at all, either from a sense of unworthiness or from a faint superstitious feeling that I might
be fulfilling a prophecy in the countryside. Anyone with a sense of the savour of the old English
country rhymes and tales will share my vague alarm that the steeple might crack or the market
cross fall down, for a smaller thing than the coincidence of a man named Chesterton going to
Chesterton.

At the time of the Regency, the head of the family was a friend of the Prince's and (perhaps
as a result of such company) dissipated his fortunes in riotous living and incurred various
terms of imprisonment for debt. From his debtors' prisons he wrote letters, and sixty years
later Mr. Edward Chesterton used to read them to his family: as also those of another interesting
relative, Captain George Laval Chesterton, prison reformer and friend of Mrs. Fry and of Charles
Dickens. A relative recalls the sentence: "I cried, Dickens cried, we all cried," which makes
one rather long for the rest of the letter.

George Laval Chesterton left two books, one a kind of autobiography, the other a work on prison
reform. It was a moment of enthusiasm for reform, of optimism and of energy. Dickens was stirring
the minds of Englishmen to discover the evils in their land and rush to their overthrow. Darwin
was writing his Origin of Species, which in some curious way increased the hopeful energy of
his countrymen: they seemed to feel it much more satisfying to have been once animal and have
become human than to be fallen gods who could again be made divine. Anyhow, there were giants
in those days and it was hope that made them so.

When by an odd confusion the Tribune described G. K. Chesterton as having been born about the
date that Captain Chesterton published his books, he replied in a ballade which at once saluted
and attacked:

   I am not fond of anthropoids as such,
   I never went to Mr. Darwin's school,
   Old Tyndall's ether, that he liked so much
   Leaves me, I fear, comparatively cool.
   I cannot say my heart with hope is full
   Because a donkey, by continual kicks,
   Turns slowly into something like a mule--
   I was not born in 1856.

   Age of my fathers: truer at the touch
   Than mine: Great age of Dickens, youth and yule:
   Had your strong virtues stood without a crutch,
   I might have deemed man had no need of rule,
   But I was born when petty poets pule,
   When madmen used your liberty to mix
   Lucre and lust, bestial and beautiful,
   I was not born in 1856.*

[* Quoted in G. K. Chesterton: A criticism. Aliston Rivers (1908) pp. 243-244.]

Both Autobiography and Prison Life are worth reading.* They breathe the "Great Gusto" seen
by Gilbert in that era. He does not quote them in his Autobiography, but, just mentioning Captain
Chesterton, dwells chiefly on his grandfather, who, while George Laval Chesterton was fighting
battles and reforming prisons, had succeeded to the headship of a house agents' business in
Kensington. (For, the family fortunes having been dissipated, Gilbert's great-grandfather had
become first a coal merchant and then a house agent.) A few of the letters between this ancestor
and his son remain and they are interesting, confirming Gilbert's description in the Autobiography
of his grandfather's feeling that he himself was something of a landmark in Kensington and
that the family business was honourable and important.

[* See Appendix A.]

The Chestertons, whatever the ups and downs of their past history, were by now established
in that English middle-class respectability in which their son was to discover--or into which
he was to bring--a glow and thrill of adventurous romance. Edward Chesterton, Gilbert's father,
belonged to a serious family and a serious generation, which took its work as a duty and its
profession as a vocation. I wonder what young house-agent today, just entering the family business,
would receive a letter from his father adjuring him to "become an active steady and honourable
man of business," speaking of "abilities which only want to be judiciously brought out, of
course assisted with your earnest co-operation."

Gilbert's mother was Marie Grosjean, one of a family of twenty-three children. The family had
long been English, but came originally from French Switzerland. Marie's mother was from an
Aberdeen family of Keiths, which gave Gilbert his second name and a dash of Scottish blood
which "appealed strongly to my affections and made a sort of Scottish romance in my childhood."
Marie's father, whom Gilbert never saw, had been "one of the old Wesleyan lay-preachers and
was thus involved in public controversy, a characteristic which has descended to his grandchild.
He was also one of the leaders of the early Teetotal movement, a characteristic which has not."*

[* Autobiography, pp. 11-12.]

When Edward became engaged to Marie Grosjean he complained that his "dearest girl" would not
believe that he had any work to do, but he was in fact much occupied and increasingly responsible
for the family business.

There is a flavour of a world very remote from ours in the packet of letters between the two
and from their various parents, aunts and sisters to one another during their engagement. Edward
illuminates poems "for a certaln dear good little child," sketches the "look out from home"
for her mother, hopes they did not appear uncivil in wandering into the garden together at
an aunt's house and leaving the rest of the company for too long. He praises a friend of hers
as "intellectual and unaffected, two excellent things in woman," describes a clerk sent to
France with business papers who "lost them all, the careless dog, except the Illustrated London
News."

A letter to Marie from her sister Harriette is amusing. She describes her efforts at entertaining
in the absence of her mother. The company were "great swells" so that her brother "took all
the covers of the chairs himself and had the wine iced and we dined in full dress--it was very
awful--considering myself as hostess." Poor girl, it was a series of misfortunes. "The dinner
was three-quarters of an hour late, the fish done to rags." She had hired three dozen wine-glasses
to be sure of enough, but they were "brought in in twos and threes at a time and then a hiatus
as if they were being washed which they were not."

In the letters from parents and older relatives religious observances are taken for granted
and there is an obvious sincerity in the many allusions to God's will and God's guidance of
human life. No one reading them could doubt that the description of a dying relative as "ready
for the summons" and to "going home" is a sincere one. Other letters, notably Harriette's,
do not lack a spice of malice in speaking of those whose religion was unreal and affected--a
phenomenon that only appears in an age when real religion abounds.

Doubtless her generation was beginning to see Christianity with less than the simplicity of
their parents. They were hearing of Darwin and Spencer, and the optimism which accompanied
the idea of evolution was turning religion into a vague glow which would, they felt, survive
the somewhat childish dogmas in which our rude ancestors had tried to formulate it. But with
an increased vagueness went also, with the more liberal--and the Chestertons were essentially
liberal both politically and theologically--an increased tolerance. In several of his letters,
Edward Chesterton mentions the Catholic Church, and certainly with no dislike. He went on one
occasion to hear Manning preach and much admired the sermon, although he notes too that he
found in it "no distinctively Roman Catholic doctrine." He belonged, however, to an age that
on the whole found the rest of life more exciting and interesting than religion, an age that
had kept the Christian virtues and still believed that these virtues could stand alone, without
the support of the Christian creed.

The temptation to describe dresses has always to be sternly resisted when dealing with any
part of the Victorian era, so merely pausing to note that it seems to have been a triumph on
the part of Mrs. Grosjean to have cut a short skirt out of 8½ yards of material, I reluctantly
lay aside the letters at the time when Edward Chesterton and Marie were married and had set
about living happily ever after.

These two had no fear of life: they belonged to a generation which cheerfully created a home
and brought fresh life into being. In doing it, they did a thousand other things, so that the
home they made was full of vital energies for the children who were to grow up in it. Gilbert
recollects his father as a man of a dozen hobbies, his study as a place where these hobbies
formed strata of exciting products, awakening youthful covetousness in the matter of a new
paint-box, satisfying youthful imagination by the production of a toy-theatre. His character,
serene and humorous as his son describes him, is reflected in his letters. Edward Chesterton
did not use up his mental powers in the family business. Taught by his father to be a good
man of business, he was in his private life a man of a thousand other energies and ideas. "On
the whole," says his son, "I am glad he was never an artist. It might have stood in his way
in becoming an amateur. It might have spoilt his career; his private career. He could never
have made a vulgar success of all the thousand things be did so successfully."

Here, Gilbert sees a marked distinction between that generation of business men and the present
in the use of leisure; he sees hobbies as superior to sport. "The old-fashioned Englishman,
like my father, sold houses for his living but filled his own house with his life. A hobby
is not merely a holiday. . . . It is not merely exercising the body instead of the mind, an
excellent but now largely a recognised thing. It is exercising the rest of the mind; now an
almost neglected thing." Edward Chesterton practised "water-colour painting and modelling and
photography and stained glass and fretwork and magic lanterns and mediaeval illumination."
And, moreover, "knew all his English literature backwards."

It has become of late the fashion for any one who writes of his own life to see himself against
a dark background, to see his development frustrated by some shadow of heredity or some horror
of environment. But Gilbert saw his life rather as the ancients saw it when pietas was a duty
because we had received so much from those who brought us into being. This Englishman was grateful
to his country, to his parents, to his home for all that they had given him.

   I regret that I have no gloomy and savage father to offer to the
   public gaze as the true cause of all my tragic heritage; no pale-faced
   and partially poisoned mother whose suicidal instincts have cursed
   me with the temptations of the artistic temperament. I regret that
   there was nothing in the range of our family much more racy than a
   remote and mildly impecunious uncle; and that I cannot do my duty
   as a true modern, by cursing everybody who made me whatever I
   am. I am not clear about what that is; but I am pretty sure that
   most of it is my own fault. And I am compelled to confess that I
   look back to that landscape of my first days with a pleasure that
   should doubtless be reserved for the Utopias of the Futurist.*

[* G. K. Chesterton. Autobiography, pp. 22-3.]

CHAPTER II

Childhood

GILBERT KEITH CHESTERTON was born on May 29, 1874 at a house in Sheffield Terrace, Campden
Hill, just below the great tower of the Waterworks which so much impressed his childish imagination.
Lower down the hill was the Anglican Church of St. George, and here he was baptised. When he
was about five, the family moved to Warwick Gardens. As old-fashioned London houses go, 11
Warwick Gardens is small. On the ground floor, a back and front room were for the Chestertons
drawing-room and dining-room with a folding door between, the only other sitting-room being
a small study built out over the garden. A long, narrow, green strip, which must have been
a good deal longer before a row of garages was built at the back, was Gilbert's playground.
His bedroom was a long room at the top of a not very high house. For what is in most London
houses the drawing-room floor is in this house filled by two bedrooms and there is only one
floor above it.

Cecil was five years younger than Gilbert, who welcomed his birth with the remark, "Now I shall
always have an audience," a prophecy remembered by all parties because it proved so singularly
false. As soon as Cecil could speak, he began to argue and the brothers' intercourse thenceforward
consisted of unending discussion. They always argued, they never quarrelled.

There was also a little sister Beatrice who died when Gilbert was very young, so young that
he remembered a fall she had from a rocking-horse more clearly than he remembered her death,
and in his memory linked with the fall the sense of loss and sorrow that came with the death.

It would be impossible to tell the story of his childhood one half so well as he has told it
himself. It is the best part of his Autobiography. Indeed, it is one of the best childhoods
in literature. For Gilbert Chesterton most perfectly remembered the exact truth, not only about
what happened to a child, but about how a child thought and felt. What is more, he sees childhood
not as an isolated fragment or an excursion into fairyland, but as his "real life; the real
beginnings of what should have been a more real life; a lost experience in the land of the living."

   I was subconsciously certain then, as I am consciously certain now,
   that there was the white and solid road and the worthy beginning of
   the life of man; and that it is man who afterwards darkens it with
   dreams or goes astray from it in self-deception. It is only the grown
   man who lives a life of make-believe and pretending; and it is he who
   has his head in a cloud.*

[* Autobiography, p. 49.]

Here are the beginnings of the man's philosophy in the life and experience of the child. He
was living in a world of reality, and that reality was beautiful, in the clear light of "an
eternal morning," which "had a sort of wonder in it, as if the world were as new as myself."
A child in this world, like God in the moment of creation, looks upon it and sees that it is
very good. It was not that he was never unhappy as a child, and he had his share of bodily
pain. "I had a fair amount of toothache and especially earache." But the child has his own
philosophy and makes his own proportion, and unhappiness and pain "are of a different texture
or held on a different tenure."

   What was wonderful about childhood is that anything in it was a
   wonder. It was not merely a world full of miracles; it was a
   miraculous world. What gives me this shock is almost anything I
   really recall; not the things I should think most worth recalling.
   This is where it differs from the other great thrill of the past, all
   that is connected with first love and the romantic passion; for that,
   though equally poignant, comes always to a point; and is narrow like
   a rapier piercing the heart, whereas the other was more like a
   hundred windows opened on all sides of the head.*

[* Autobiography, pp. 31-32.]

These windows opening on all sides so much more swiftly for the genius than for the rest of
us, led to a result often to be noted in the childhood of exceptional men: a combination of
backwardness and precocity. Gilbert Chesterton was in some ways a very backward child. He did
not talk much before three. He learnt to read only at eight.

He loved fairy tales; as a child he read them or had them read aloud to him: as a big boy he
wrote and illustrated a good many, some of which are printed in The Coloured Lands. I have
found several fragments in praise of Hans Andersen written apparently in his schooldays. In
the chapter of Orthodoxy called "The Ethics of Elfland" he shows how the truth about goodness
and happiness came to him out of the old fairy tales and made the first basis for his philosophy.
And George Macdonald's story The Princess and the Goblin made, he says, "a difference to my
whole existence, which helped me to see things in a certain way from the start." It is the
story of a house where goblins were in the cellar and a kind of fairy godmother in a hidden
room upstairs. This story had made "all the ordinary staircases and doors and windows into
magical things." It was the awakening of the sense of wonder and joy in the ordinary things
always to be his. Still more important was the realization represented by the goblins below
stairs, that "When the evil things besieging us do appear, they do not appear outside but inside."
In life as in this story there is

   . . . a house that is our home, that is rightly loved as our home,
   but of which we hardly know the best or the worst, and must always
   wait for the one and watch against the other. . . . Since I first
   read that story some five alternative philosophies of the universe
   have come to our colleges out of Germany, blowing through the world
   like the east wind. But for me that castle is still standing in the
   mountains, its light is not put out.*

[* Introduction to George Macdonald and His Wife.]

All this to Gilbert made the story the "most real, the most realistic, in the exact sense of
the phrase the most like life" of any story he ever read--then or later! Another recurrent
image in books by the same author is that of a great white horse. And Gilbert says, "To this
day I can never see a big white horse in the street without a sudden sense of indescribable
things."*

[* Ibid.]

Of his playmates, "one of my first memories," he writes in the Autobiography, "is playing in
the garden under the care of a girl with ropes of golden hair; to whom my mother afterwards
called out from the house, 'You are an angel'; which I was disposed to accept without metaphor.
She is now living in Vancouver as Mrs. Robert Kidd."

Mrs. Kidd, then Annie Firmin, was the daughter of a girlhood friend of Mrs. Chesterton's. She
called her "Aunt Marie." She and her sister, Gilbert says in the Autobiography, "had more to
do with enlivening my early years than most." She has a vivid memory of Sheffield Terrace where
all three Chesterton children were born and where the little sister, Beatrice, whom they called
Birdie, died. Gilbert, in those days, was called Diddie, his father then and later was "Mr.
Ed" to the family and intimate friends. Soon after Birdie's death they moved to Warwick Gardens.
Mrs. Kidd writes:

   . . . the little boys were never allowed to see a funeral. If one
   passed down Warwick Gardens, they were hustled from the nursery
   window at once. Possibly this was because Gilbert had such a fear of
   sickness or accident. If Cecil gave the slightest sign of choking at
   dinner, Gilbert would throw down his spoon or fork and rush from the
   room. I have seen him do it so many times. Cecil was fond of animals.
   Gilbert wasn't. Cecil had a cat that he named Faustine, because he
   wanted her to be abandoned and wicked--but Faustine turned out to be
   a gentleman!

Gilbert's story-telling and verse-making began very early, but not, I think, in great abundance;
his drawing even earlier, and of this there is a great deal. There is nothing very striking
in the written fragments that remain, but his drawings even at the age of five are full of
vigour. The faces and figures are always rudimentary human beings, sometimes a good deal more,
and they are taken through lengthy adventures drawn on the backs of bits of wall paper, of
insurance forms, in little books sewn together, or sometimes on long strips glued end to end
by his father. These drawings can often be dated exactly, for Edward Chesterton, who later
kept collections of press-cuttings and photographs of his son, had already begun to collect
his drawings, writing the date on the back of each. With the earlier ones he may, one sometimes
suspects, have helped a little, but it soon becomes easy to distinguish between the two styles.

Edward Chesterton was the most perfect father that could have been imagined to help in the
opening of windows on every side. "My father might have reminded people of Mr. Pickwick, except
that he was always bearded and never bald; he wore spectacles and had all the Pickwickian evenness
of temper and pleasure in the humours of travel." He had, as his son further notes in the Autobiography,
a power of invention which "created for children the permanent anticipation of what is profoundly
called a 'surprise.'" The child of today chooses his Christmas present in advance and decides
between Peter Pan and the Pantomime (when he does not get both). The Chesterton children saw
their first glimpses of fantasy through the framework of a toy-theatre of which their father
was carpenter, scene-painter and scene-shifter, author and creator of actors and actresses
a few inches high. Gilbert's earliest recollection is of one of these figures in a golden crown
carrying a golden key, and his father was all through his childhood a man with a golden key
who admitted him into a world of wonders.

I think Gilbert's father meant more to him than his mother, fond as he was of her. Most of
their friends seem to feel that Cecil was her favorite son. "Neither was ever demonstrative,"
Annie Firmin says, "I never saw either of them kiss his mother." But in some ways the mother
spoilt both boys. They had not the training that a strict mother or an efficient nurse usually
accomplishes with the most refractory. Gilbert was never refractory, merely absent-minded;
but it is doubtful whether he was sent upstairs to wash his hands or brush his hair, except
in preparation for a visit or ceremonial occasion ("not even then!" interpolates Annie). And
it is perfectly certain that he ought to have been so sent several times a day. No one minded
if he was late for meals; his father, too, was frequently late and Frances during her engagement
often saw his mother put the dishes down in the fireplace to keep hot, and wait patiently--in
spite of Gilbert's description of her as "more swift, relentless and generally radical in her
instincts" than his father. Annie Firmin's earlier memories fit this description better. Much
as she loved her "aunt," she writes:

   Aunt Marie was a bit of a tyrant in her own family! I have been
   many times at dinner, when there might be a joint, say, and a
   chicken--and she would say positively to Mr. Ed, "Which will you
   have, Edward?" Edward: "I think I'd like a bit of chicken!" Aunt M.
   fiercely: "No, you won't, you'll have mutton!" That happened so
   often. Sometimes Alice Grosjean, the youngest of Aunt M.'s family,
   familiarly known as "Sloper," was there. When asked her preference
   she would say, diffidently, "I think I'll take a little mutton!"
   "Don't be a fool, Alice, you know you like chicken,"--and chicken
   she got.

Visitors to the house in later years dwell on Mrs. Chesterton's immense spirit of hospitality,
the gargantuan meals, the eager desire that guests should eat enormously, and the wittiness
of her conversation. Schoolboy contemporaries of Gilbert say that although immensely kind,
she alarmed them by a rather forbidding appearance--"her clothes thrown on anyhow, and blackened
and protruding teeth which gave her a witchlike appearance. . . . The house too was dusty and
untidy." She called them always by their surnames, both when they were little boys and after
they grew up, "Oldershaw, Bentley, Solomon."

"Not only," says Miss May Chesterton, "did Aunt Marie address Gilbert's friends by their surnames,
but frequently added darling to them. I have heard her address Bentley when a young man thus;
'Bentley darling, come and sit over here,' to which invitation he turned a completely deaf
ear as he was perfectly content to remain where he was!"

"Indiscriminately, she also addressed her maids waiting at table with the same endearment."

A letter written when Gilbert was only six would seem to show that Mrs. Chesterton had not
yet become so reckless about her appearance, and was still open to the appeal of millinery.
("She always was," says Annie.) The letter is from John Barker of High Street, Kensington,
and is headed in handwriting, "Drapery and Millinery Establishment, Kensington High Street,
September 21, 1880."

   MADAM,

   We are in receipt of instructions from Mr. Edward Chesterton to
   wait upon you for the purpose of offering for your selection a Bonnet
   of the latest Parisian taste, of which we have a large assortment
   ready for your choice; or can, if preferred, make you one to order.

   Our assistant will wait upon you at any time you may appoint,
   unless you would prefer to pay a visit to our Millinery department
   yourself.

   Mr. Chesterton informs us that as soon as you have made your
   selection he will hand us a cheque for the amount.

   We are given to understand that Mr. Chesterton proposes this
   transaction as a remembrance of the anniversary of what, he instructs
   us to say, he regards as a happy and auspicious event. We have
   accordingly entered it in our books in that aspect.

   In conveying, as we are desired to do, Mr. Chesterton's best wishes
   for your health and happiness for many future anniversaries, may we
   very respectfully join to them our own, and add that during many
   years to come we trust to be permitted to supply you with goods of
   the best description for cash, on the principle of the lowest prices
   consistent with excellence of quality and workmanship.

   We have the honour to be Madam Your most obedient Servants

   JOHN BARKER & Co.

The order entered in their books "under that aspect," the readiness to provide millinery "for
cash," convinces you (as G.K. himself says of another story) that Dick Swiveller really did
say, "When he who adores thee has left but the name--in case of letters and parcels." Dickens
must have dictated the letter to John Barker. After all, he was only dead ten years.

"Aunt Marie used to say," adds Annie Firmin, "that Mr. Ed married her for her beautiful hair,
it was auburn, and very long and wavy. He used to sit behind her in Church. She liked pretty
clothes, but lacked the vanity to buy them for herself. I have a little blue hanging watch
that he bought her one day--she always appreciated little attentions."

The playmates of Gilbert's childhood are not described in the Autobiography except for Annie's
"long ropes of golden hair." But in one of the innumerable fragments written in his early twenties,
he describes a family of girls who had played with him when they were very young together.
It is headed, "Chapter I. A Contrast and a Climax," and several other odd bits of verse and
narrative introduce the Vivian family as early and constant playmates.

   One of the best ways of feeling a genuine friendly enthusiasm for
   persons of the other sex, without gliding into anything with a
   shorter name, is to know a whole family of them. The most
   intellectual idolatry at one shrine is apt to lose its purely
   intellectual character, but a genial polytheism is always bracing and
   platonic. Besides, the Vivians lived in the same street or rather
   "gardens" as ourselves, and were amusing as bringing one within sight
   of what an old friend of mine, named Bentley, called with more than
   his usual gloom and severity of expression, "the remote outpost of
   Kensington Society."

   For these reasons, and a great many much better ones, I was very
   much elated to have the family, or at least the three eldest girls
   who represent it to the neighbourhood, standing once more on the
   well-rubbed lawn of our old garden, where some of my earliest
   recollections were of subjecting them to treatment such as I
   considered appropriate to my own well-established character of
   robber, tying them to trees to the prejudice of their white frocks,
   and otherwise misbehaving myself in the funny old days, before I went
   to school and became a son of gentlemen only. I have never been able,
   in fact I have never tried, to tell which of the three I really liked
   best. And if the severer usefulness and domesticity of the eldest
   girl, with her quiet art-colours, and broad, brave forehead as pale
   as the white roses that clouded the garden, if these maturer
   qualities in Nina demanded my respect more than the levity of the
   others, I fear they did not prevent me feeling an almost equal tide
   of affection towards the sleepy acumen and ingrained sense of humour
   of Ida, the second girl and book-reader for the family: or Violet, a
   veritably delightful child, with a temper as formless and erratic as
   her tempest of red hair.

   "What old memories this garden calls up," said Nina, who like many
   essentially simple and direct people, had a strong dash of sentiment
   and a strong penchant for being her own emotional pint-stoup on the
   traditional subjects and occasions. "I remember so well coming here
   in a new pink frock when I was a little girl. It wasn't so new when
   I went away."

   "I certainly must have been a brute," I replied. "But I have
   endeavoured to make a lifetime atone for my early conduct." And
   I fell to thinking how even Nina, miracle of diligence and
   self-effacement, remembered a new pink frock across the abyss of
   the years. . . . Walking with my old friends round the garden, I
   found in every earth-plot and tree-root the arenas of an active
   and adventurous life in early boyhood. . . .*

[* Unpublished fragment.]

Edward Chesterton was a Liberal politically and what has been called a Liberal Christian religiously.
When the family went to church--which happened very seldom--it was to listen to the sermons
of Stopford Brooke. Some twenty years later, Cecil was to remark with amusement that he had
as a small boy heard every part of the teaching now (1908) being set out by R. J. Campbell
under the title, "The New Religion." The Chesterton Liberalism entered into the view of history
given to their children, and it produced from Gilbert the only poem of his childhood worth
quoting. I cannot date it, but the very immature handwriting and curious spelling mark it as early.

Probably most children have read, or at any rate up to my own generation, had read, Aytoun's
Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers, and played at being Cavaliers as a result. But Gilbert could
not play at being a Cavalier. He had learned from his father to be a Roundhead, as had every
good Liberal of that day. What was to be done about it? He took the Lays and rewrote them in
an excellent imitation of Aytoun, but on the opposite side. In view of his own later developments
such a line as "Drive the trembling Papists backwards" has an ironic humour. But one wonders
what Aytoun himself would have made of a small boy who took his rhythm and sometimes his very
words, turned his hero into a traitor ("false Montrose") and his traitor Argyll into a hero!
I have left the spelling untouched.

   Sing of the Great Lord Archibald
   Sing of his glorious name
   Sing of his covenenting faith
   And his evelasting fame.

   One day he summoned all his men
   To meet on Cruerchin's brow
   Three thousand covenenting chiefs
   Who no master would allow

   Three thousand Knights
   With clamores drawn
   And targets tough and strong
   Knights who for the right
   Would ever fight
   And never bear the wrong.

   And he creid (his hand uplifted)
   "Soldiers of Scotland hear my vow
   Ere the morning shall have risen
   I will lay the trators low
   Or as ye march from the battle
   Marching back in battle file
   Ye shall there among the corpses
   Find the body of Argyll.

   Soldiers Soldiers onward onward
   Onward soldiers follow me
   Come, remember ye the crimes
   Of the fiend of fell Dundee
   Onward let us draw our clamores
   Let us draw them on our foes
   Now then I am threatened with
   The fate of false Montrose.

   Drive the trembling Papists backwards
   Drive away the Tory's hord
   Let them tell thier hous of villians
   They have felt the Campbell's sword."

   And the next morn he arose
   And he girded on his sword
   They asked him many questions
   But he answered not a word.
   And he summoned all his men
   And he led them to the field
   And We creid unto our master
   That we'd die and never yield.
   That same morn we drove right backwards
   All the servants of the Pope
   And Our Lord Archibald we saved
   From a halter and a rope
   Far and fast fled all the trators
   Far and fast fled all the Graemes
   Fled that cursed tribe who lately
   Stained there honour and thier names.

CHAPTER III

School Days

CURIOUSLY ENOUGH Gilbert does not in the Autobiography speak of any school except St. Paul's.
He went however first to Colet Court, usually called at that time Bewsher's, from the name
of the Headmaster. Though it is not technically the preparatory school for St. Paul's, large
numbers of Paulines do pass through it. It stands opposite St. Paul's in the Hammersmith Road
and must have been felt by Gilbert as one thing with his main school experience, for he nowhere
differentiates between the two.

St. Paul's School is an old city foundation which has had among its scholars Milton and Marlborough,
Pepys and Sir Philip Francis and a host of other distinguished men. The editor of a correspondence
column wrote a good many years later in answer to an enquirer: "Yes, Milton and G. K. Chesterton
were both educated at St. Paul's school. We fancy however that Milton had left before Chesterton
entered the school." In an early life of Sir Thomas More we learn of the keen rivalry existing
in his day between his own school of St. Anthony and St. Paul's, of scholastic "disputations"
between the two, put an end to by Dean Colet because they led to brawling among the boys, when
the Paulines would call those of St. Anthony "pigs" and the pigs would call the Paulines "pigeons"--from
the pigeons of St. Paul's Cathedral. Now, however, St. Anthony's is no more, and St. Paul's
School has long moved to the suburbs and lies about seven minutes' walk along the Hammersmith
Road from Warwick Gardens. Gilbert Chesterton was twelve when he entered St. Paul's (in January
1887) and he was placed in the second Form.

His early days at school were very solitary, his chief occupation being to draw all over his
books. He drew caricatures of his masters, he drew scenes from Shakespeare, he drew prominent
politicians. He did not at first make many friends. In the Autobiography he makes a sharp distinction
between being a child and being a boy, but it is a distinction that could only be drawn by
a man. And most men, I fancy, would find it a little difficult to say at what moment the transformation
occurred. G.K. seems to put it at the beginning of school life, but the fact that St. Paul's
was a day-school meant that the transition from home to school, usual in English public-school
education,* was never in his case completely made. No doubt he is right in speaking in the
Autobiography of "the sort of prickly protection like hair" that "grows over what was once
the child," of the fact that schoolboys in his time "could be blasted with the horrible revelation
of having a sister, or even a Christian name." Nevertheless, he went home every evening to
a father and mother and small brother; he went to his friends' houses and knew their sisters;
school and home life met Daily instead of being sharply divided into terms and holidays.

[* The terminology for English schools came into being largely before the State concerned itself
with education. A Private School is one run by an individual or a group for private profit.
A Public School is not run for private profit; any profits there may be are put back into the
school. Mostly they are run by a Board of Governors and very many of them hold the succession
to the old monastic schools of England (e.g., Charterhouse, Westminster, St. Paul's). They
are usually, though not necessarily, boarding schools, and the fees are usually high. Elementary
schools called Board Schools were paid for out of local rates and run by elected School Boards.
They were later replaced by schools run by the County Councils.]

This fact was of immense significance in Gilbert's development. Years later he noted as the
chief defect of Oxford that it consisted almost entirely of people educated at boarding-schools.
For good, for evil, or for both, a boy at a day-school is educated chiefly at home.

   In the atmosphere of St. Paul's is found little echo of the dogma
   of the Head Master of Christ's Hospital. "Boy! The school is your
   father! Boy! The school is your mother." Nor, as far as we know has
   any Pauline been known to desire the substitution of the august
   abstraction for the guardianship of his own people. Friendships
   formed in this school have a continual reference to home life, nor
   can a boy possibly have a friend long without making the acquaintance
   and feeling the influence of his parents and his surroundings. . . .
   The boys' own amusements and institutions, the school sports, the
   school clubs, the school magazine, are patronised by the masters, but
   they are originated and managed by the boys. The play-hours of the
   boys are left to their several pleasures, whether physical or
   intellectual, nor have any foolish observations about the battle of
   Waterloo being won on the cricket-field, or such rather unmeaning
   oracles, yet succeeded in converting the boys' amusements into a
   compulsory gymnastic lesson. The boys are, within reasonable limits,
   free.*

[* MS. History of J.D.C. written about 1894.]

Gilbert calls the chapter on his school days, "How to be a Dunce," and although in mature life
he was "on the side of his masters" and grateful to them "that my persistent efforts not to
learn Latin were frustrated; and that I was not entirely successful even in escaping the contamination
of the language of Aristotle and Demosthenes," he still contrasts childhood as a time when
one "wants to know nearly everything" with "the period of what is commonly called education;
that is, the period during which I was being instructed by somebody I did not know about something
I did not want to know."

The boy who sat next to him in class, Lawrence Solomon (later Senior Tutor of University College,
London), remembered him as sleepy and indifferent in manner but able to master anything when
he cared to take the trouble--as he very seldom did. He was in a class with boys almost all
his juniors. Lucian Oldershaw, who later became his brother-in-law, says of Gilbert's own description
of his school life that it was as near a pose as Gilbert ever managed to get. He wanted desperately
to be the ordinary schoolboy, but he never managed to fulfil this ambition. Tall, untidy, incredibly
clumsy and absent-minded, he was marked out from his fellows both physically and intellectually.
When in the later part of his school life some sort of physical exercises were made compulsory,
the boys used to form parties to watch his strange efforts on the trapeze or parallel bars.
In these early days, he was (he says of himself) "somewhat solitary," but not unhappy, and
perfectly good-humoured about the tricks which were inevitably played on a boy who always appeared
to be half asleep.

"He sat at the back of the room," says Mr. Fordham, "and never distinguished himself. We thought
him the most curious thing that ever was." His schoolfellows noted how he would stride along,
"apparently muttering poetry, breaking into inane laughter." The kind of thing he was muttering
we learn from a sentence in the Autobiography: "I was one day wandering about the streets in
that part of North Kensington, telling myself stories of feudal sallies and sieges, in the
manner of Walter Scott, and vaguely trying to apply them to the wilderness of bricks and mortar
around me."

"I can see him now," wrote Mr. Fordham, "very tall and lanky, striding untidily along Kensington
High Street, smiling and sometimes scowling as he talked to himself, apparently oblivious of
everything he passed; but in reality a far closer observer than most, and one who not only
observed but remembered what he had seen." It was only of himself that he was really oblivious.

Mr. Oldershaw remembers that on one occasion on a very cold day they filled his pockets with
snow in the playground. When class reassembled, the snow began to melt and pools to appear
on the floor. A small boy raised his hand: "Please Sir, I think the laboratory sink must be
leaking again. The water is coming through and falling all over Chesterton."

The laboratory sink was an old offender and the master must have been short-sighted. "Chesterton,"
he said, "go up to Mr. ---- and ask him with my compliments to see that the trouble with the
sink is put right immediately." Gilbert, with water still streaming from both pockets, obediently
went upstairs, gave the message and returned without discovering what had happened.

The boys who played these jokes on him had at the same time an extraordinary respect, both
for his intellectual acquirements and for his moral character. One boy, who rather prided himself
in private life on being a man about town, stopped him one day in the passage and said solemnly,
"Chesterton, I am an abandoned profligate." G.K. replied, "I'm sorry to hear it." "We watched
our talk," one of them said to me, "when he was with us." His home and upbringing were felt
by some of his schoolfellows to have definitely a Puritan tinge about them, although on the
other hand the more Conservative elements regarded them as politically dangerous. Mr. Oldershaw
relates that his own father, who was a Conservative in politics and had also joined the Catholic
Church, seriously warned him against the Agnosticism and Republicanism of the Chesterton household.
But even at this age his schoolfellows recognised that he had begun the great quest of his
life. "We felt," said Oldershaw, "that he was looking for God."

I suppose it was in part the keenness of the inner vision that produced the effect of external
sleepiness and made it possible to pack Gilbert's pockets with snow; but it was also the fact
that he was observing very keenly the kind of thing that other people do not bother to observe.
I remember my mother telling me, when I first came out, that she had almost ceased trying to
draw people's characters and imaginatively construct their home lives, because for the first
time in her life she was trying to notice how they were dressed. She was not noticeably successful.
Gilbert Chesterton never even tried to see what everyone else saw. All the time he was seeing
qualities in his friends, ideas in literature and possibilities in life. And all this world
of imagination had, on his own theory, to be carefully concealed from his masters. In the Autobiography
he describes himself walking to school fervently reciting verses which he afterwards repeated
in class with a determined lack of expression and woodenness of voice; but when he assumes
that this is how all boys behave, he surely attributes his own literary enthusiasms far too
widely. One would rather gather that he supposed the whole of St. Paul's School to be in the
conspiracy to conceal their love of literature from their masters! Such of his own schoolboy
papers as can be found show an imagination rare enough at any age, and an enthusiasm not commonly
to be found among schoolboys. A very early one, to judge by the handwriting, is on the advantages
for an historical character of having long hair, illustrated by the history of Mary Queen of
Scots and Charles the First. In the contrast he draws between Mary and Elizabeth, appear qualities
of historical imagination that might well belong to a mature and experienced writer.

   . . . As in the cause of the fleeting heartless Helen, the Trojan
   War is stirred up, and great Ajax perishes, and the gentle Patroclus
   is slain, and mighty Hector falls, and godlike Achilles is laid low,
   and the dun plains of Hades are thickened with the shades of Kings,
   so round this lovely giddy French princess, fall one by one the
   haughty Dauphin, the princely Darnley, the accomplished Rizzio, the
   terrible Bothwell, and when she dies, she dies as a martyr before the
   weeping eyes of thousands, and is given a popular pity and regret
   denied to her rival, with all her faults of violence and vanity, a
   greater and a purer woman.

   It must indeed have been a terrible scene, the execution of that
   unhappy Queen, and it is a scene that has been described by too
   many and too able writers for me to venture on a picture of it. But
   the continually lamented death of Mary of Scotland seems to me
   happy compared with the end of her greater and sterner rival. As I
   think on the two, the vision of the black scaffold, the grim headsman,
   the serene captive, and the weeping populace fades from me and is
   replaced by a sadder vision: the vision of the dimly-lighted
   state-bedroom of Whitehall. Elizabeth, haggard and wild-eyed has
   flung herself prone upon the floor and refuses to take meat or drink,
   but lies there, surrounded by ceremonious courtiers, but seeing with
   that terrible insight that was her curse, that she was alone, that
   their homage was a mockery, that they were waiting eagerly for her
   death to crown their intrigues with her successor, that there was not
   in the whole world a single being who cared for her: seeing all this,
   and bearing it with the iron fortitude of her race, but underneath
   that invincible silence the deep woman's nature crying out with a
   bitter cry that she is loved no longer: thus gnawed by the fangs of a
   dead vanity, haunted by the pale ghost of Essex, and helpless and
   bitter of heart, the greatest of Englishwomen passed silently away.
   Of a truth, there are prisons more gloomy than Fotheringay and deaths
   more cruel than the axe. Is there no pity due to those who undergo
   these?

It is surprising to read the series of form reports written on a boy who at fifteen or sixteen
could do work of this quality. Here are the half-yearly reports made by his Form Masters from
his first year in the school at the age of thirteen to the time he left at the age of eighteen.

December 1887. Too much for me: means well by me, I believe, but has an inconceivable knack
of forgetting at the shortest notice, is consequently always in trouble, though some of his
work is well done, when he does remember to do it. He ought to be in a studio not at school.
Never troublesome, but for his lack of memory and absence of mind.

July 1888. Wildly inaccurate about everything; never thinks for two consecutive moments to
judge by his work: plenty of ability, perhaps in other directions than classics.

December 1888. Fair. Improving in neatness. Has a very fair stock of general knowledge.

July 1889. A great blunderer with much intelligence.

December 1889. Means well. Would do better to give his time to "Modern" subjects.

July 1890. Can get up any work, but originates nothing.

December 1890. Takes an interest in his English work, but otherwise has not done well.

July 1891. He has a decided literary aptitude, but does not trouble himself enough about school
work.

December 1891. Report missing.

July 1892. Not on the same plane with the rest: composition quite futile, but will translate
well and appreciate what he reads. Not a quick brain, but possessed by a slowly moving tortuous
imagination. Conduct always admirable.

What is much clearer from the mass of notebooks and odd sheets of paper belonging to these
years than from the Autobiography is the degree to which the two processes of resisting and
absorbing knowledge were going on simultaneously. At school he was, he says, asleep but dreaming
in his sleep; at home he was still learning literature from his father, going to museums and
picture galleries for enjoyment, listening to political talk and engaging in arguments, writing
historical plays and acting them, and above all drawing.

To most of his early writing it is nearly impossible to affix a date--with the exception of
a "dramatic journal," kept by fits and starts during the Christmas holidays when he was sixteen.
G.K. solemnly tells the reader of this diary to take warning by it, to beware of prolixity,
and it does in fact contain many more words to many fewer ideas than any of his later writings.
But it is useful in giving the atmosphere of those years. Great part is in dialogue, the author
appearing throughout as Your Humble Servant, his young brother Cecil as the Innocent Child.

The first scene is the rehearsal of a dramatic version of Scott's Woodstock. This has been
written by Your Humble Servant who is at the same time engaged on a historic romance. At intervals
in the languid rehearsing, endless discussions take place: between Oldershaw and G.K. on Thackeray,
between Oldershaw, his father and G.K. on Royal Supremacy in the Church of England. The boys,
walking between their two houses, "discuss Roman Catholicism, Supremacy, Papal v. Protestant
Persecutions. Your Humble Servant arrives at 11 Warwick Gardens to meet Mr. Mawer Cowtan, Master
Sidney Wells and Master William Wells. Conversation about Frederick the Great, Voltaire and
Macaulay. Cheerful and enlivening discourse on Germs, Dr. Koch, Consumption and Tuberculosis."

"Conservative" Oldershaw regards his friend as a "red hot raging Republican" and it is interesting
to note already faint foreshadowings of Gilbert's future political views. His parents had made
him a Liberal but it seemed to him later, as he notes in the Autobiography, that their generation
was insufficiently alive to the condition and sufferings of the poor. Open-eyed in so many
matters, they were not looking in that particular direction. And so it was only very gradually
that he himself began to look.

Your Humble Servant read Oldershaw Elizabeth Browning's "Cry of the Children," which the former
could scarcely trust himself to read, but which the latter candidly avowed that he did not
like. Part and parcel of Oldershaw's optimism is a desire not to believe in pictures of real
misery, and a desire to find out compensating pleasures. I think there was a good deal in what
he said, but at the same time I think that there is real misery, physical and mental, in the
low and criminal classes, and I don't believe in crying peace where there is no peace.

Of his brother, Gilbert notes, "Innocent Child's fault is not a servile reverence for his elder
brother, whom he regards, I believe, as a mild lunatic." And Oldershaw recalls his own detestation
of Cecil, who would insist on monopolising the conversation when Gilbert's friends wanted to
talk to him. "An ugly little boy creeping about," Mr. Fordham calls him. "Cecil had no vanity,"
writes Mrs. Kidd, "and thoroughly appreciated the fact that he was not beautiful; when he was
about 14 he said at dinner one day: 'I think I shall marry X (a very plain cousin); between
us we might produce the missing link.' Aunt Marie was shocked!"

Many of the games arise from the skill in drawing of both Gilbert and his father. A long history
of two of the Masters drawn by Gilbert shows them in the Salvation Army, as Christy Minstrels,
as editors of a new revolutionary paper, "La Guillotine," as besieged in their office by a
mob headed by Lord Salisbury, the Archbishop of Canterbury and other Conservative leaders.
Getting tired at last of the adventures of these two mild scholars, Gilbert starts a series
of Shakespeare plays drawn in modern dress.

   Shylock as an aged Hebrew vendor of dilapidated vesture, with a
   tiara of hats, Antonio as an opulent and respectable city-merchant,
   Bassanio as a fashionable swell and Gratiano as his loud and
   disreputable "pal" with large checks and a billy-cock hat. Portia was
   attired as a barrister in wig and gown and Nerissa as a clerk with a
   green bag and a pen behind his ear. This being much appreciated, Your
   Humble Servant questions what portion of the Bard of Avon he shall
   next burlesque.

The little group seems certainly at this date to be living in a land in which 'tis always afternoon.
In one house or another tea-time goes on until signs of dinner make their appearance. The boys
only move from one hospitable dining-room to another, or adjourn to their own bedrooms where
Gilbert piles book on book and reduces even neat shelves to the same chaos that reigns in his
own room.

The Christmas holidays to which the "dramatic journal" belongs came a few months after the
founding of the Junior Debating Club, which became so central in Gilbert's life and which he
treated with a gravity, solemnity even, such as he never showed later for any cause, a gravity
untouched by humour. It was a group of about a dozen boys, started with the idea that it should
be a Shakespeare Club, but immediately changed into a general discussion club. They met every
week at the home of one or other and after a hearty tea some member read a paper which was
then debated.

At the age of twenty, when he had left school two years, G.K. wrote a solemn history of this
institution in which the question of whether it was right or wrong to insist on penny fines
for rowdy behaviour is canvassed with passionate feeling! One boy who was expelled asked to
be readmitted, saying, "I feel so lonely without it." Gilbert's enthusiasm over this incident
could be no greater had he been a bishop welcoming the return of an apostate to the Christian
fold. I suppose it was partly because of his early solitary life at school, partly because
of the general trend of his thought, partly that at this later date he was under the influence
of Walt Whitman and cast back upon his earlier years a sort of glow or haze of Whitman idealism.
Anyhow, the Junior Debating Club became to him a symbol of the ideal friendship. They were
Knights of the Round Table. They were Jongleurs de Dieu. They were the Human Club through whom
and in whom he had made the grand discovery of Man. They were his youth personified. The note
is still struck in the letters of his engagement period, and it was only forty years later,
writing his Autobiography, that he was able to picture with a certain humorous detachment this
group of boys who met to eat buns and criticise the universe.

A year after their first meeting, the energy of Lucian Oldershaw produced a magazine called
The Debater. At first it was turned out at home on a duplicator--the efficiency of the production
being such that the author of any given paper was able occasionally to recognise a few words
of his own contribution. Later it was printed and gives a good record of the meetings and discussions.
It shows the energy and ardour of the debaters and also their serious view of themselves and
their efforts. At first they are described as Mr. C, Mr. F, etc. Later the full name is given.
Besides the weekly debates, they started a Library, a Chess Club, a Naturalists' Society and
a Sketching Club, regular meetings of which are chronicled.

"The Chairman [G.K.C.] said a few words," runs a record, after some months of existence, "stating
his pride at the success of the Club, and his belief in the good effect such a literary institution
might have as a protest against the lower and unworthy phases of school life. His view having
been vehemently corroborated, the meeting broke up."

In one fairly typical month papers were read on "Three Comedies of Shakespeare," "Pope," and
"Herodotus," and when no paper was produced there was a discussion on Capital Punishment. In
another, the subjects were "The Brontës," "Macaulay as an Essayist," "Frank Buckland" (the
naturalist) and "Tennyson." A pretty wide range of reading was called for from schoolboys in
addition to their ordinary work, even though on one occasion the Secretary sternly notes that
the reading of the paper occupied only three and one-half minutes. But they were not daunted
by difficulties or afraid of bold attempts.

Mr. Digby d'Avigdor on one occasion "delivered a paper entitled 'The Nineteenth Century: A
Retrospect.' He gave a slight resumé of the principal events, with appropriate tribute to the
deceased great of this century."

Mr. Bertram, reading a paper on Milton, "dealt critically with his various poems, noting the
effective style of 'L'Allegro,' giving the story of the writing of 'Comus' and cursorily analysing
'Paradise Lost,' and 'Paradise Regained.'"

"After discussing the adaptability of Hamlet to the stage, Mr. Maurice Solomon"--who may have
been quite fifteen--"passed on to review the chief points in the character of the Prince of
Denmark, concluding with a slight review of the other characters which he did not think Shakespeare
had given much attention to."

In a discussion on the new humorists, we find the Secretary "taking grievous umbrage at certain
unwarrantable attacks which he considered Mr. Andrew Lang had lately made on these choice spirits."
This discussion arose from a paper by the Chairman on the new school of poetry "in which, in
spite of its good points, he condemned the absence of the sentiment of the moral, which he
held to be the really stirring and popular element in literature."

Evidently some of his friends tended towards a youthful cynicism for in a paper on Barrie's
Window in Thrums Gilbert apologises to "such of you as are much bitten with the George Moore
state of mind."

The book which describes the rusty emotions and toilsome lives of the Thrums weavers will always
remain a book that has given me something, and the fact that mine is merely the popular view
and that what I feel in it can be equally felt by the majority of fellow-creatures, this fact,
such is my hardened and abandoned state, only makes me like the book more. I have long found
myself in that hopeless minority that is engaged in protecting the majority of mankind from
the attacks of all men. . . .

In this sentiment we recognise the G.K. that is to be, but not when we find him seconding Mr.
Bentley in the motion that "a scientific education is much more useful than a classic."

"Mr. M," reading a paper on Herodotus, "gave a minute account of the life of the historian,
dwelling much upon the doubt and controversy surrounding his birth and several incidents of
his history"; while "Mr. F. read a paper on Newspapers, tracing their growth from the Acta
Diurna of the later Roman Empire to the hordes of papers of the present day."

Perhaps best of all these efforts was that of Mr. L.D., who "after describing the governments
of England, France, Russia, Germany and the United States, proceeded to give his opinion on
their various merits, first saying that he personally was a republican."

Of the boys that appear in The Debater, Robert Vernède was killed in the Great War; Laurence
Solomon at his death in 1940 was Senior Tutor of University College, London; his brother Maurice
who became one of the Directors of the General Electric Company is now an invalid. I read a
year or so ago an interesting Times obituary of Mr. Bertram, who was Director of Civil Aviation
in the Air Ministry; Mr. Salter became a Principal in the Treasury, having practised as a solicitor
up to the War; Mr. Fordham, a barrister, was one of the Legal Advisers to the Ministry of Labour
and has now retired.

The two outstanding "debaters" in G.K.'s life were Lucian Oldershaw who became his brother-in-law
and will often reappear in these pages, and Edmund Clerihew Bentley, his friend of friends.
Closely united as was the whole group, Lucian Oldershaw once told me that they were frantically
jealous of one another: "We would have done anything to get the first place with Gilbert."

"But you know," I said "who had it."

"Yes," he replied, "our jealousy of Bentley was overwhelming."

Mr. Bentley became a journalist and was for long on the editorial staff of the Daily Telegraph,
but he is best known for his detective stories--especially Trent's Last Case--and as the inventor
of a special form of rhyme, known from his second name as the Clerihew. He wrote the first
of these while still at school, and the best were later published in a volume called Biography
for Beginners, which G.K. illustrated. Everyone has his favourite. My own is:

   Sir Christopher Wren
   Said "I am going to dine with some men,
   If anybody calls
   Say I'm designing St. Paul's."

Or possibly:

   The people of Spain think Cervantes
   Equal to half-a-dozen Dantes,
   An opinion resented most bitterly
   By the people of Italy.

Bentley was essentially a holiday as well as term-time companion and when they were not together
a large correspondence between the two boys gives some idea of how and where Gilbert spent
his summer holidays. They are very much schoolboy letters and not worth quoting at full length,
but it is interesting to compare both style and content with the later letters. All the letters
begin "Dear Bentley." The first use of his Christian name only occurs after both had left school.

   Austria House
   Pier Street
   Ventnor, Isle of Wight
   (undated, probably 1890)

   Although you dropt some hints about Paris when you were last
   in our humble abode, I presume that this letter, if addressed to your
   usual habitation, will reach you at some period. Ventnor, where, as
   you will perceive we are, is, I will not say built upon hills, but
   emptied into the cracks and clefts of rocks so that the geography of
   the town is curious and involved. . . .

   My brother is intent upon "The Three Midshipmen" or "The Three
   Admirals" or the three coal-scuttles or some other distinguished trio
   by that interminable ass Kingston. I looked at it today and wondered
   how I ever could have enjoyed his eternal slave schooners and African
   stations. I would not give a page of "Mansfield Park" or a verse of
   "In Memoriam" for all the endless fighting of blacks and boarding of
   pirates through which the three hypocritical vagabonds ever went. I
   am getting old. How old it will shortly be necessary for me to state
   precisely, for, as you doubtless know there is going to be a
   Census. . . .

   I have been trying to knock into shape a story, such as we spoke
   about the other day, about the first introduction of Tea, and I should
   be glad of your assistance and suggestions. I think I shall lay the
   scene in Holland where the merits of tea were first largely agitated,
   and fill the scene with the traditional Dutch figures such as I sketch.
   I find in Disraeli's "Curiosities of Literature" which I consulted
   before coming away that a French writer wrote an elaborate treatise
   to prove that tea merchants were always immoral members of society.
   It would be rather curious to apply the theory to the present
   day. . . .

   11, Warwick Gardens,
   Kensington.
   (undated.)

   I direct this letter to your ancient patrimonial estate unknowing
   whether it will reach you or where it will reach you if it does;
   whether you are shooting polar bears on the ice-fields of Spitzbergen
   or cooking missionaries among the cannibals of the South Pacific.
   But wherever you are I find some considerable relief in turning from
   the lofty correspondence of the secretary (with no disparagement
   of my much-esteemed friend, Oldershaw) to another friend
   (ifelow-mecallimso as Mr. Verdant Greene said) who can discourse on
   some other subjects besides the Society, and who will not devote the
   whole of his correspondence to the questions of that excellent and
   valuable body. The Society is a very good thing in its way (being
   the President I naturally think so) but like other good things, you
   may have too much of it, and I have had. . . .

   As I said before, I don't know where you are disporting yourself,
   beyond some hurried remark about Paris which you dropped in our
   hurried interview in one of the "brilliant flashes of silence" between
   those imbecile screams and yells and stamping, which even the
   natural enthusiasm at the prospect of being "broken up" cannot
   excuse.

   6, The Quadrant,
   North Berwick, Haddington,
   Scotland.
   (? 1891.)

   You will probably guess that as far as personal taste and instincts
   are concerned, I share all your antipathy to the noisy Plebian
   excursionist. A visit to Ramsgate during the season and the vision of
   the crowded, howling sands has left in me feelings which all my
   Radicalism cannot allay. At the same time I think that the lower
   orders are seen unfavorably when enjoying themselves. In labour and
   trouble they are more dignified and less noisy. Your suggestion as to
   a series of soliloquies is very flattering and has taken hold of me
   to the extent of writing a similar ballad on Simon de Montfort. The
   order in which they come is rather incongruous, particularly if I
   include the list I have in mind for the future thus--Danton, William
   III, Simon de Montfort, Rousseau, David and Russell. . . . I rejoice
   to say that this is a sequestered spot into which Hi tiddly hi ti,
   etc. and all the ills in its train have not penetrated.

In these last two letters there are sentences of a kind not to be found anywhere else in Chesterton.
The disparagement of Lucian Oldershaw's excessive enthusiasm for the Junior Debating Club,
the solemn reprobation of the "imbecile screams and yells and stamping" of the last day at
school before the summer holidays, the antipathy expressed for the rowdy enjoyments of the
lower orders--these things are not in the least like either the Chesterton that was to be or
the Chesterton that then was. But they are very much like Bentley. He was two years younger
than Chesterton, but far older than his years and seemed indeed to the other boys (and perhaps
to himself) like an elderly gentleman smiling a remote amused smile at the enthusiasms of the
young. I get the strongest feeling that at this stage Chesterton not only admired him--as he
was to do all his life--but wanted to be like him, to say the kind of thing he thought Bentley
would say. This phase did not last, as we shall see; it had gone by the time Chesterton was
at the Slade School.

   6, The Quadrant,
   North Berwick
   Haddington, Scotland.
   (undated, probably 1891.)

   DEAR BENTLEY,

   We have been here three days and my brother loudly murmurs that we
   have not yet seen any of "the sights." For my part I abominate
   sights, and all people who want to look at them. A great deal more
   instruction, to say nothing of pleasure is to be got out of the
   nearest haystack or hedgerow taken quietly, than in trotting over two
   or three counties to see "the view" or "the site" or the
   extraordinary cliff or the unusual tower or the unreasonable hill or
   any other monstrosity deforming the face of Nature. Anybody can make
   sights but nobody has yet succeeded in making scenery. (Excuse the
   unaccountable pencil drawing in the middle which was drawn
   unconsciously on the back of the unfinished letter.) . . .

   9, South Terrace,
   Littlehampton, Sussex.
   (undated.)

   . . . I agree with you in your admiration for Paradise Lost, but
   consider it on the whole too light and childish a book for persons of
   our age. It is all very well, as small children to read pretty
   stories about Satan and Belial, when we have only just mastered our
   "Oedipus" and our Herbert Spencer, but when we grow older we get to
   like Captain Marryat and Mr. Kingston and when we are men we know
   that Cinderella is much better than any of those babyish books. As
   regards one question which you asked, I may remark that the children
   of Israel [presumably the Solomons] have not gone unto Horeb, neither
   unto Sittim, but unto the land that is called Shropshire they went,
   and abode therein. And they came unto a city, even unto the city that
   is called Shrewsbury, and there they builded themselves an home,
   where they might abide. And their home was in the land that was
   called Castle Street and their home was the 25th tabernacle in that
   land. And they abode with certain of their own kin until their season
   be over and gone. And lo! they spake unto me by letter, saying,
   "Heard ye aught of him that is called Bentley? Is he in the house of
   his fathers or has he come unto a strange land?" Here endeth the 2nd
   Lesson.

   Hotel de Lille & d'Albion,
   223, Rue St. Honoré,
   Paris.
   (undated, probably 1892.)

   . . . They showed us over the treasures of the Cathedral, among
   which, as was explained by the guide, who spoke a little English, was
   a cross given by Louis XIV to "Meess" Lavallière. I thought that
   concession to the British system of titles was indeed touching. I
   also thought, when reflecting what the present was, and where it was
   and then to whom it was given, that this showed pretty well what the
   religion of the Bourbon regime was and why it has become impossible
   since the Revolution.

   Grand Hotel du Chemin de Fer,
   Arromanches (Calvados)
   (undated)

   . . . Art is universal. This remark is not so irrelevant and Horace
   Greeley-like as it may appear. I have just had a demonstration of its
   truth on the coach coming down here. Two very nice little French boys
   of cropped hair and restless movements were just in front of us and
   my pater having discovered that the book they had with them was a
   prize at a Paris school, some slight conversation arose. Not thinking
   my French altogether equal to a prolonged interview, I took out a
   scrap of paper and began, with a fine carelessness to draw a picture
   of Napoleon I, hat, chin, attitude, all complete. This, of course,
   was gazed at rapturously by these two young inheritors of France's
   glory and it ended in my drawing them unlimited goblins to keep for
   the remainder of the interview.

In May 1891, the Chairman of the J.D.C. attained the maturity of seventeen.

   The Secretary then rose and in a speech in which he extolled the
   merits of the Chairman as a chairman, and mentioned the benefit which
   the Junior Debating Club received on the day of which this was the
   anniversary, viz., the natal day of Mr. Chesterton, proposed that a
   vote wishing him many happy returns of the day and a long continuance
   in the Chair of the Club should be passed. This was carried with
   acclamations. The Chairman replied after restoring Order. . . .

Naturally this question of order among a crowd of boys loomed large. At the beginning a number
of rules were passed giving great powers to the Chairman, "which that gentleman," he says of
himself, "lenient by temperament and republican by principles, certainly would never have put
in force. . . . It was seldom enough," he continues:

   that a boy of fifteen* found himself in the position of the
   Chairman, an attitude of command and responsibility over a body of
   his friends and equals, and it was not to be expected that they would
   easily take to the state of things. Nor was the Chairman himself,
   like the Secretary, protected and armed by any personal aptitude for
   practical proceedings. But solely by the certain degree of respect
   entertained for his character and acquirements. This respect, sincere
   and even excessive as it frequently was, contrasted somewhat
   humorously with the common inattention to questions of order, nor
   could anything be more noisy than the loyalty of Fordham and Langdon
   Davies, with the exception of their interruptions. It may then fairly
   be said that the troubles and discussions of the first months of the
   Club's existence centred practically round the question of order, the
   first of the great difficulties of this most difficult enterprise.
   How boys who could scarcely be got to behave quietly under the
   strictest schoolmasters could ever be brought to obey the rebuke of
   their equal and schoolfellow: how a heterogeneous pack of average
   schoolboys could organise themselves into a self-governing republic,
   these were problems of real and stupendous difficulty. The fines of a
   penny and of twopence, which were instituted at the first meeting,
   were found hopelessly incompetent to cope with the bursts of
   oblivious hilarity. Fordham in particular, whose constant breaches of
   order threatened to exhaust even the extensive treasury of that
   spoilt and opulent young gentleman, soon left calculation far behind,
   nor can the story be better or more brightly told than by himself.
   "Mr. F.," he wrote, "at one time, after considerable calculation
   found that he was in debt to the extent of some 10 or 11 shillings;
   but as he felt that by refusing to pay the sum he would be striking a
   blow for the liberty of the subject, he manfully held out against
   what he considered an unjust punishment for such diminutive
   frivolities as he had indulged in." . . . At times incidents of a
   disturbing and playful nature have roused the wrath of the Chairman
   and Secretary to a pitch awful to behold. At one time Mr. H. (a
   member who soon resigned) spent a considerable part of a meeting
   under the table, till he found himself used as a public footstool and
   a doormat combined. At another as Mr. Bentley was departing from the
   scene of chaos a penny bun of the sticky order caressingly stung his
   honoured cheek, sped upon its errand of mercy by the unerring aim of
   Mr. F.**

[* He was, in fact, sixteen when the J.D.C. began.]

[** MS. History of the J.D.C.]

Mr. Fordham well remembers how G.K. one day took him aside at the Oldershaws' house and told
him that he really must be less exuberant. This historic occasion was always alluded to later
as "the day on which the Chairman spoke seriously to Mr. F."

After various resignations order was restored, and a little later two of the chief recalcitrants
asked to be received back into the Club. "I feel so lonely without it," one of them had remarked;
and G.K. comments, "This has always appeared to the present writer one of the most important
speeches in the history of the Club. . . . The Junior Debating Club had come through its moments
of difficulty and was a fact and an establishment."

Nor was the circulation of The Debater long confined to members of the Club and their own circle
of friends and relatives. Some of the boys had no doubt a regular allowance, but probably a
small one. Gilbert himself says in his diary that he had no income "except errant sixpences."
And printers' bills had to be paid. Moreover in the first number the editor Lucian Oldershaw
confessed frankly that one reason for the paper's existence was "that the Society may not degenerate
into the position of a mutual admiration Society by totally lacking the admiration of outsiders."
The staff were able immediately to note, "Any apprehensions we may have felt on the morning
of the publication of The Debater were speedily dispelled, when by nightfall we had disposed
of all our copies." Of a later issue the energetic editor sold sixty-five copies in the course
of the summer holidays. Masters, too, began to read it and at last a copy was hid on the table
of the High Master, Mr. Walker. Cecil Chesterton describes the High Master as a gigantic man
with a booming voice. Some Paulines believed he had given Gilbert the first inspiration for
the personality of "Sunday" in The Man Who Was Thursday. Another contemporary says that he
was reputed to take no interest in anything except examination successes, and that the boys
were amazed at the effect on him of reading The Debater. Reading in the light of his future,
one sees qualities in Gilbert's work not to be found in that of the other contributors, but
it is worth noting that the J.D.C. members were in fact a quite unusually able group. Almost
every one of them took brilliant scholarships to Oxford or Cambridge; the High Master had never
boasted of so many scholarships from one set of boys. And in reading The Debater (an enjoyment
I wish others could share) one has to bear in mind the relative ages of the contributors. It
is, I think, striking that all these boys should have recognised Gilbert's quality and accepted
his leadership, for they were all a year or so younger than he was and yet were in the same
form. They knew that this was only because G.K. would not bother to do his school work; still,
I think that at that age they showed insight by knowing it.

Gilbert's work is to be found in every number of The Debater--usually verse as well as prose.
Both Fordham and Oldershaw remember most vividly the effect of reading a fanciful essay on
Dragons in the first number. "The Dragon," it began, "is the most cosmopolitan of impossibilities."
And the boys, rolling the words on their tongues, murmured to one another, "This is literature."

Except for a very occasional flash the one element not yet visible in these Debater essays
is humour. This is curious, because some of his most brilliant fooling belongs to the same
period. In a collection made after his death, The Coloured Lands is an illustrated jeu d'esprit
of 1891, Half Hours in Hades: "an elementary handbook of demonology" which is as amusing a
thing as he ever wrote. The drawings he made for it show specimens of the evolution of various
types of devil into various types of humans: the devils themselves are carefully classified--the
common or garden serpent (Tentator Hortensis), the red devil (Diabolus Mephistopheles) the
blue devil (Caeruleus Lugubrius) etc. Mr. J. Milton's "specimen" is discussed and various methods
of pursuing observations in supernatural history which "possesses an interest which will remain
after health, youth and even life have departed."

There is nothing of this kind in The Debater. Besides the historical soliloquies mentioned
in the letter to Bentley, there are poems in which he is beginning to feel after his religious
philosophy. One of these in a very early number shows considerable power for a boy not yet
seventeen.

   ADVENIAT REGNUM TUUM

   Not that the widespread wings of wrong brood o'er a moaning earth,
   Not from the clinging curse of gold, the random lot of birth;
   Not from the misery of the weak, the madness of the strong,
   Goes upward from our lips the cry, "How long, oh Lord, how long?"
   Not only from the huts of toil, the dens of sin and shame,
   From lordly halls and peaceful homes the cry goes up the same;
   Deep in the heart of every man, where'er his life be spent,
   There is a noble weariness, a holy discontent.
   Where'er to mortal eyes has come, in silence dark and lone,
   Some glimmer of the far-off light the world has never known,
   Some ghostly echoes from a dream of earth's triumphal song,
   Then as the vision fades we cry, "How long, oh Lord, how long?"
   Long ages, from the dawn of time, men's toiling march has wound
   Towards the world they ever sought, the world they never found;
   Still far before their toiling path the glimmering promise lay,
   Still hovered round the struggling race, a dream by night and day.
   Mid darkening care and clinging sin they sought their unknown home,
   Yet ne'er the perfect glory came--Lord, will it ever come?
   The weeding of earth's garden broad from all its growths of wrong,
   When all man's soul shall be a prayer, and all his life a song.
   Aye, though through many a starless night we guard the flaming oil,
   Though we have watched a weary watch, and toiled a weary toil,
   Though in the midnight wilderness, we wander still forlorn,
   Yet bear we in our hearts the proof that God shall send the dawn.
   Deep in the tablets of our hearts he writes that yearning still,
   The longing that His hand hath wrought shall not his hand fulfil?
   Though death shall close upon us all before that hour we see,
   The goal of ages yet is there--the good time yet to be:
   Therefore, tonight, from varied lips, in every house and home,
   Goes up to God the common prayer, "Father, Thy Kingdom come."*

[* The Debater, Vol. I. March-April, 1891.]

Gilbert's prose work in The Debater must have been little less surprising to any master who
had merely watched him slumbering at a desk. His historical romance "The White Cockade" is
immature and unimportant. But essays on Spenser, Milton, Pope, Gray, Cowper, Burns, Wordsworth,
"Humour in Fiction," "Boys' Literature," Sir Walter Scott, Browning, the English Dramatists,
showed a range and a quality of literary criticism alike surprising. Perhaps most surprising,
however, is the fact that all this does not seem to have made clear to either masters or parents
the true nature of Gilbert's vocation. He suffered at this date from having too many talents.
For he still went on drawing and his drawings seemed to many the most remarkable thing about
him, and were certainly the thing he most enjoyed doing.

Even now his school work had not brought him into the highest form--called not the Sixth, as
in most schools, but the Eighth: the highest form he ever reached was 6B. But in the Summer
term of 1892 he entered a competition for a prize poem, and won it. The subject chosen was
St. Francis Xavier. I give the poem in Appendix A. It is not as notable as some other of his
work at that time: what is interesting is that in it this schoolboy expresses with some power
a view he was later to explode yet more powerfully. He might have claimed for himself what
he said of earlier writers--it is not true that they did not see our modern difficulties: they
saw through them. Never before had this contest been won by any but an Eighth Form boy, and
almost immediately afterwards Gilbert was amazed to find a short notice posted on the board:
"G. K. Chesterton to rank with the Eighth.--F. W. Walker, High Master."

The High Master at any rate had travelled far from the atmosphere of the form reports when
Mrs. Chesterton visited him in 1894 to ask his advice about her son's future. For he said,
"Six foot of genius. Cherish him, Mrs. Chesterton, cherish him."

CHAPTER IV

Art Schools and University College

WHEN ALL GILBERT'S friends were at Oxford or Cambridge, he used to say how glad he was that
his own choice had been a different one. He never sighed for Oxford. He never regretted his
rather curious experiences at an Art School--two Art Schools really, although he only talks
of one in the Autobiography, for he was for a short time at a School of Art in St. John's Wood
(Calderon's, Lawrence Solomon thought), whence he passed to the Slade School. He was there
from 1892 to 1895 and during part of that time he attended lectures on English Literature at
University College.

The chapter on the experiences of the next two years is called in the Autobiography, "How to
be a Lunatic," and there is no doubt that these years were crucial and at times crucifying
in Gilbert's life. During a happily prolonged youth (he was now eighteen and a half) he had
developed very slowly, but normally. Surrounded by pleasant friendships and home influences
he had never really become aware of evil. Now it broke upon him suddenly--probably to a degree
exaggerated by his strong imagination and distorted by the fact that he was undergoing physical
changes usually belonging to an earlier age.

Towards the end of his school life Gilbert's voice had not yet broken. His mother took him
to a doctor to be overhauled and was told that his brain was the largest and most sensitive
the doctor had ever seen. "A genius or an idiot" was his verdict on the probabilities. Above
all things she was told to avoid for him any sort of shock. Physically, mentally, spiritually
he was on a very large scale and probably for that reason of a slow rate of development. The
most highly differentiated organisms are the slowest to mature, and without question Gilbert
did mature very late. He was now passing through the stage described by Keats: "The imagination
of a boy is healthy and the mature imagination of a man is healthy; but there is a space of
life between"--a period unhealthy or at least ill-focussed.

Intellectually Gilbert suffered at this time from an extreme scepticism. As he expressed it
he "felt as if everything might be a dream" as if he had "projected the universe from within."
The agnostic doubts the existence of God. Gilbert at moments doubted the existence of the agnostic.

Morally his temptations seem to have been in some strange psychic region rather than merely
physical. The whole period is best summarised in a passage from the Autobiography, for looking
back after forty years Gilbert still saw it as deeply and darkly significant: as both a mental
and moral extreme of danger.

   There is something truly menacing in the thought of how quickly I
   could imagine the maddest, when I had never committed the mildest
   crime . . . there was a time when I had reached that condition of
   moral anarchy within, in which a man says, in the words of Wilde,
   that "Atys with the blood-stained knife were better than the thing I
   am." I have never indeed felt the faintest temptation to the
   particular madness of Wilde, but I could at this time imagine the
   worst and wildest disproportions and distortions of more normal
   passion; the point is that the whole mood was overpowered and
   oppressed with a sort of congestion of imagination. As Bunyan, in his
   morbid period, described himself as prompted to utter blasphemies, I
   had an overpowering impulse to record or draw horrible ideas and
   images; lunging deeper and deeper as in a blind spiritual suicide.*

[* Pp. 88-9.]

Two of his intimate friends, finding at this time a notebook full of these horrible drawings,
asked one another, "Is Chesterton going mad?"

He dabbled too in spiritualism until he realised that he had reached the verge of forbidden
and dangerous ground:

   I would not altogether rule out the suggestion of some that we were
   playing with fire; or even with hell-fire. In the words that were
   written for us there was nothing ostensibly degrading, but any amount
   that was deceiving. I saw quite enough of the thing to be able to
   testify with complete certainty, that something happens which is not
   in the ordinary sense natural, or produced by the normal and
   conscious human will. Whether it is produced by some subconscious but
   still human force, or by some powers, good, bad, or indifferent,
   which are external to humanity, I would not myself attempt to decide.
   The only thing I will say with complete confidence, about that mystic
   and invisible power, is that it tells lies. The lies may be larks or
   they may be lures to the imperilled soul or they may be a thousand
   other things; but whatever they are, they are not truths about the
   other world; or for that matter about this world.*

[*Autobiography, p. 77.]

He told Father O'Connor some years later* that "he had used the planchette freely at one time,
but had to give it up on account of headaches ensuing . . . 'after the headaches came a horrid
feeling as if one were trying to get over a bad spree, with what I can best describe as a bad
smell in the mind.'"

[*Father Brown on Chesterton, p. 74.]

Idling at his work he fell in with other idlers and has left a vivid description in a Daily
News article called, "The Diabolist," of one of his fellow students.

   . . . It was strange, perhaps, that I liked his dirty, drunken
   society; it was stranger still, perhaps, that he liked my society.
   For hours of the day he would talk with me about Milton or Gothic
   architecture; for hours of the night he would go where I have no wish
   to follow him, even in speculation. He was a man with a long,
   ironical face, and close red hair; he was by class a gentleman, and
   could walk like one, but preferred, for some reason, to walk like a
   groom carrying two pails. He looked like a sort of super-jockey; as
   if some archangel had gone on the Turf. And I shall never forget the
   half-hour in which he and I argued about real things for the first
   and last time.

   . . . He had a horrible fairness of the intellect that made me
   despair of his soul. A common, harmless atheist would have denied
   that religion produced humility or humility a simple joy; but he
   admitted both. He only said, "But shall I not find in evil a life of
   its own? Granted that for every woman I ruin one of those red sparks
   will go out; will not the expanding pleasure of ruin . . ."

   "Do you see that fire?" I asked. "If we had a real fighting
   democracy, some one would burn you in it; like the devil-worshipper
   that you are."

   "Perhaps," he said, in his tired, fair way. "Only what you call
   evil I call good."

   He went down the great steps alone, and I felt as if I wanted the
   steps swept and cleaned. I followed later, and as I went to find my
   hat in the low, dark passage where it hung, I suddenly heard his
   voice again, but the words were inaudible. I stopped, startled; but
   then I heard the voice of one of the vilest of his associates saying,
   "Nobody can possibly know." And then I heard those two or three words
   which I remember in every syllable and cannot forget. I heard the
   Diabolist say, "I tell you I have done everything else. If I do that
   I shan't know the difference between right and wrong." I rushed out
   without daring to pause; and as I passed the fire I did not know
   whether it was hell or the furious love of God.

   I have since heard that he died; it may be said, I think, that he
   committed suicide; though he did it with tools of pleasure, not with
   tools of pain. God help him, I know the road he went; but I have
   never known or even dared to think what was that place at which he
   stopped and refrained.*

[* Quoted in G. K. Chesterton: A Criticism. Alston Rivers Ltd. 1908, pp. 20-22.]

Revulsion from the atmosphere of evil took Gilbert to no new thing but to a strengthening of
old ties and a mystic renewal of them. The J.D.C. was idealised into a mystical city of friends:

   A LIST

   I know a friend, very strong and good. He is the best friend in the
   world,

   I know another friend, subtle and sensitive. He is certainly the best
   friend on earth.

   I know another friend: very quiet and shrewd, there is no friend so
   good as he.

   I know another friend, who is enigmatical and reluctant, he is the
   best of all.

   I know yet another: who is polished and eager, he is far better
   than the rest.

   I know another, who is young and very quick, he is the most beloved
   of all friends,

   I know a lot more and they are all like that.

   Amen.

   THE COSMIC FACTORIES

   What are little boys made of?

   Bentley is made of hard wood with a knot in it, a complete set of
   Browning and a strong spring;

   Oldershaw of a box of Lucifer matches and a stylographic pen;

   Lawrence of a barrister's wig: files of Punch and salt,

   Maurice of watch-wheels, three riders and a clean collar.

   Vernède is made of moonlight and tobacco,

   Bertram is mostly a handsome black walking-stick.

   Waldo is a nice cabbage, with a vanishing odour of cigarettes,

   Salter is made of sand and fire and an university extension ticket.

   But the strongest element in all can not be expressed; I think it
   is a sort of star.*

[* From The Notebook.]

There are fragments of a Morality Play entitled "The Junior Debating Club," of a modern novel
in which everyone of the Debaters makes his appearance, of a mediaeval story called "The Legend
of Sir Edmund of the Brotherhood of the Jongleurs de Dieu." Notes, fragments, letters, all
show an intense individual interest that covered the life of each of his friends. If one of
them is worried, he worries too; if one rejoices, he rejoices exceedingly. They write to him
about their ideas and views, their relations with one another, their reactions in the world
of Oxford life, their love affairs. "I am in need of some literary tonic or blood-letting,"
says Vernède, "which you alone can supply."

"I only hope," writes Bertram, "you may be as much use in the world in future as you have been
in the past to your friends."

"Most of the absent Club," writes Salter separated from the others, "lie together in my pocket
at this moment." And Gilbert writes in The Notebook:

   AN IDYLL

   Tea is made; the red fogs shut round the house but the gas burns.
   I wish I had at this moment round the table
   A company of fine people.
   Two of them are at Oxford and one in Scotland and two at other
      places.
   But I wish they would all walk in now, for the tea is made.

Gilbert was devoted to them all. But as we have seen, Bentley's was the supreme friendship
of his youth. It was a friendship in foolery as we are told by the dedication of Greybeards
at Play:

   He was through boyhood's storm and shower
   My best my nearest friend,
   We wore one hat, smoked one cigar
   One standing at each end.

It was a deeply serious friendship as we are told in the dedication of The Man Who Was Thursday.
With Bentley alone he shared the

   Doubts that drove us through the night as we two talked amain,
   And day had broken on the streets ere it broke upon the brain.

Most young men write or at least begin novels of which they are themselves the heroes. Gilbert
wrote and illustrated a fairy story about a boyish romance of Lucian Oldershaw's while two
unfinished novels have Bentley for hero. He is, too, in the mediaeval story, Sir Edmund of
the Brotherhood of the Jongleurs de Dieu. Gilbert sings, like all young poets, of first love--but
it is Bentley's not his own: he was as much excited about a girl Bentley had fallen in love
with as if he had fallen in love with her himself. And where a London street has a special
significance one discovers it is because of a memory of Bentley's. To Bentley then, with whom
all was shared, Gilbert wrote, when through friendship and the goodness of things he had come
out again into the daylight. The second thought that had saved him had largely grown out of
the first. The J.D.C. meant friendship. Friendship meant the highest of all good things and
all good things called for gratitude. As he gave thanks he drew near to God.

   Dunedin Lodge
   Forth Street
   North Berwick.
   (undated, but probably Long Vac., 1894.)

   Your letter was most welcome: in which, however, it does not differ
   widely from most of your letters. I read somewhere in some fatuous
   Complete Letter-writer or something, that it is correct to imitate
   the order of subjects, etc. observed by your correspondent. In
   obedience to this rule of breeding I will hurriedly remark that my
   holiday has been nice enough in itself; we walk about; lie on the
   sand; go and swim in the sea when it generally rains; and the
   combination gets in our mouths and we say the name of the Professor
   in the "Water Babies." Inwardly speaking, I have had a funny time. A
   meaningless fit of depression, taking the form of certain absurd
   psychological worries came upon me, and instead of dismissing it and
   talking to people, I had it out and went very far into the abysses,
   indeed. The result was that I found that things when examined,
   necessarily spelt such a mystically satisfactory state of things,
   that without getting back to earth, I saw lots that made me certain
   it is all right. The vision is fading into common day now, and I am
   glad. The frame of mind was the reverse of gloomy, but it would not
   do for long. It is embarrassing, talking with God face to face, as a
   man speaketh to his friend.

And in another letter:

   A cosmos one day being rebuked by a pessimist replied, "How can you
   who revile me consent to speak by my machinery? Permit me to reduce
   you to nothingness and then we will discuss the matter." Moral. You
   should not look a gift universe in the mouth.

Another powerful influence in the direction of mental health was the discovery of Walt Whitman's
poetry. "I shall never forget," Lucian Oldershaw writes, "reading to him from the Canterbury
Walt Whitman in my bedroom at West Kensington. The séance lasted from two to three hours, and
we were intoxicated with the excitement of the discovery."

For some time now we shall find Gilbert dismissing belief in any positive existence of evil
and treating the universe on the Whitman principle of jubilant and universal acceptance. He
writes, too, in the Whitman style. By far the most important of his notebooks is one which,
by amazing good fortune, can be dated, beginning in 1894 and continuing for several years.
In its attitude to man it is Whitmanesque to a high degree, yet it is also most characteristically
Chestertonian. Whitman is content with a shouting, roaring optimism about life and humanity.
Chesterton had to find for it a philosophical basis. Heartily as he disliked the literary pessimism
of the hour, he was not content simply to exchange one mood for another. For whether he was
conscious of it at the time or not, he did later see Walt Whitman's outlook as a mood and not
a philosophy. It was a mood, however, that Chesterton himself never really lost, solely because
he did discover the philosophy needed to sustain it. And thereby, even in this early Notebook,
he goes far beyond Whitman. Even so early he knew that a philosophy of man could not be a philosophy
of man only. He already feels a presence in the universe:

   It is evening
   And into the room enters again a large indiscernable presence.
   Is it a man or a woman?
   Is it one long dead or yet to come?
   That sits with me in the evening.

This again might have been only a mood--had he not found the philosophy to sustain it too.
It is remarkable how much of this philosophy he had arrived at in The Notebook, before he had
come to know Catholics. Indeed the Notebook seems to me so important that it needs a chapter
to itself with abundant quotation.

Meanwhile, what was Gilbert doing about his work at University College? Professor Fred Brown
told Lawrence Solomon that when he was at the Slade School he always seemed to be writing and
while listening to lectures he was always drawing. It is probably true that, as Cecil Chesterton
says, he shrank from the technical toils of the artist as he never did later from those of
authorship; and none of the professors regarded him as a serious art student. They pointed
later to his illustrations of Biography for Beginners as proof that he never learnt to draw.
Yet how many of the men who did learn seriously could have drawn those sketches, full of crazy
energy and vitality? I know nothing about drawing, but anyone may know how brilliant are the
illustrations to Greybeards at Play or Biography for Beginners, and later to Mr. Belloc's novels.
And anyone can see the power of line with which he drew in his notebooks unfinished suggestions
of humanity or divinity. Anyone, too, can recognise a portrait of a man, and faces full of
character continue to adorn G.K.'s exercise books. Of living models he affected chiefly Gladstone,
Balfour, and Joe Chamberlin. In hours of thought he made drawings of Our Lord with a crown
of thorns or nailed to a cross--these suddenly appear in any of his books between fantastic
drawings or lecture notes. As the mind wandered and lingered the fingers followed it, and as
Gilbert listened to lectures, he would even draw on the top of his own notes. He had always
had facility and that facility increased, so that in later years he often completed in a couple
of hours the illustrations to a novel of Belloc's. Nor were these drawings merely illustrations
of an already completed text, for Mr. Belloc has told me that the characters were often half
suggested to him by his friend's drawings.

On one, at any rate, of his vacations, Gilbert went to Italy, and two letters to Bentley show
much of the way his thoughts were going:

   Hotel New York
   Florence.
   (undated, probably 1894.)

   DEAR BENTLEY,

   I turn to write my second letter to you and my first to Grey
   [Maurice Solomon], just after having a very interesting conversation
   with an elderly American like Colonel Newcome, though much better
   informed, with whom I compared notes on Botticelli, Ruskin, Carlyle,
   Emerson and the world in general. I asked him what he thought of
   Whitman. He answered frankly that in America they were "hardly up to
   him." "We have one town, Boston," he said precisely, "that has got up
   to Browning." He then added that there was one thing everyone in
   America remembered: Whitman himself. The old gentleman quite kindled
   on this topic, "Whitman was a real Man. A man who was so pure and
   strong that we could not imagine him doing an unmanly thing anywhere."
   It was odd words to hear at a table d'hôte, from your next door
   neighbour: it made me quite excited over my salad.

   You see that this humanitarianism in which we are entangled asserts
   itself where, by all guidebook laws, it should not. When I take up my
   pen to write to you, I am thinking more of a white-moustached old
   Yankee at an hotel than about the things I have seen within the same
   24 hours: the frescoes of Santa Croce, the illuminations of St.
   Marco; the white marbles of the tower of Giotto; the very Madonnas of
   Raphael, the very David of Michael Angelo. Throughout this tour, in
   pursuance of our theory of travelling, we have avoided the guide: he
   is the death-knell of individual liberty. Once only we broke through
   our rule and that was in favour of an extremely intelligent, nay
   impulsive young Italian in Santa Maria Novella, a church where we saw
   some of the most interesting pieces of mediaeval painting I have ever
   seen, interesting not so much from an artistic as from a moral and
   historical point of view. Particularly noticeable was the great
   fresco expressive of the grandest mediaeval conception of the
   Communion of Saints, a figure of Christ surmounting a crowd of all
   ages and stations, among whom were not only Dante, Petrarca, Giotto,
   etc., etc., but Plato, Cicero, and best of all, Arius. I said to the
   guide, in a tone of expostulation, "Heretico!" (a word of impromptu
   manufacture). Whereupon he nodded, smiled and was positively radiant
   with the latitudinarianism of the old Italian painter. It was
   interesting for it was a fresh proof that even the early Church
   united had a period of thought and tolerance before the dark ages
   closed around it. There is one thing that I must tell you more of
   when we meet, the tower of Giotto. It was built in a square of
   Florence, near the Cathedral, by a self-made young painter and
   architect who had kept sheep as a boy on the Tuscan hills. It is
   still called "The Shepherd's Tower." What I want to tell you about is
   the series of bas-reliefs, which Giotto traced on it, representing
   the creation and progress of man, his discovery of navigation,
   astronomy, law, music and so on. It is religious in the grandest
   sense, but there is not a shred of doctrine (even the Fall is
   omitted) about this history in stone. If Walt Whitman had been an
   architect, he would have built such a tower, with such a story on it.
   As I want to go out and have a good look at it before we start for
   Venice tomorrow, I must cut this short. I hope you are enjoying
   yourself as much as I am, and thinking about me half as much as I am
   about you.

   Your very sincere friend,
   GILBERT K. CHESTERTON.

No one would have enjoyed more than Gilbert rereading this letter in after years and noting
the suggestion that the fifteenth century belonged to the early church and preceded the Dark
Ages. And I think, too, that even in Giotto's Tower, he might later have discovered some roots
of doctrine.

   Grand Hotel De Milan
   (undated)

   DEAR BENTLEY,

   I write you a third letter before coming back, while Venice and
   Verona are fresh in my mind. Of the former I can really only
   discourse viva voce. Imagine a city, whose very slums are full of
   palaces, whose every other house wall has a battered fresco, or a
   gothic bas-relief; imagine a sky fretted with every kind of pinnacle
   from the great dome of the Salute to the gothic spires of the Ducal
   Palace and the downright arabesque orientalism of the minarets of St.
   Mark's; and then imagine the whole flooded with a sea that seems only
   intended to reflect sunsets, and you still have no idea of the place
   I stopped in for more than 48 hours. Thence we went to Verona, where
   Romeo and Juliet languished and Dante wrote most of "Hell." The
   principal products (1) tombs: particularly those of the Scala, a very
   good old family with an excellent taste in fratricide. Their three
   tombs (one to each man I mean: one man, one grave) are really
   glorious examples of three stages of Gothic: of which more when we
   meet. (2) Balconies: with young ladies hanging over them; really
   quite a preponderating feature. Whether this was done in obedience to
   local associations and in expectation of a Romeo, I can't say. I can
   only remark that if such was the object, the supply of Juliets seemed
   very much in excess of the demand. (3) Roman remains: on which,
   however, I did not pronounce a soliloquy beginning, "Wonderful
   people . . ." which is the correct thing to do. Just as I get to this
   I receive your letter and resolve to begin another sheet of paper. I
   did read Rosebery's speech and was more than interested; I was
   stirred. The old order (of parliamentary forms, peerages, Whiggism
   and right honourable friends) has changed, yielding place to the new
   (of industrialism, county council sanitation, education and the
   Kingdom of Heaven at hand) and, whatever the Archbishop of
   Canterbury may say, God fulfils himself in many ways, even by local
   government. . . .

   Several things in your letter require notice. First the accusation
   levelled against me of being prejudiced against Professor Huxley, I
   repel with indignation and scorn. You are not prejudiced against
   cheese because you like oranges; and though the Professor is not
   Isaiah or St. Francis or Whitman or Richard le Gallienne (to name
   some of those whom I happen to affect) I should be the last person in
   the world to say a word against an earnest, able, kind-hearted and
   most refreshingly rational man: by far the best man of his type I
   know. As to what you say on education generally, I am entirely with
   you, but it will take a good interview to say how much. As for the
   little Solomons, I am prepared to [be] fond of all of them, as I am
   of all children, even the grubby little mendicants that run these
   Italian streets. I am glad you and Grey have pottered. Potter again.
   I have had such a nice letter from Lawrence. It makes me think it is
   all going "to be the fair beginning of a time."

Had the months of art study only developed in Gilbert Chesterton his power of drawing, they
might still have been worthwhile. But they gave him, too, a time to dream and to think which
working for a University degree would never have allowed. His views and his mind were developing
fast, and he was also developing a power to which we owe some of his best work--depth of vision.

Most art criticism is the work of those who never could have been artists--which is possibly
why it tends to be so critical. Gilbert, who could perhaps have been an artist, preferred to
appreciate what the artist was trying to say and to put into words what he read on the canvas.
Hence both in his Watts and his Blake we get what some of us ask of an art critic--the enlargement
of our own powers of vision. This is what made Ruskin so great an art critic, a fact once realised,
today forgotten. He may have made a thousand mistakes, he had a multitude of foolish prejudices,
but he opened the eyes of a whole generation to see and understand great art.

G.K. was to begin his published writings with poetry and art criticism--in other words with
vision. And this vision he partly owed to the Slade School. Here is a letter (undated) to Bentley
containing a hint of what eight years later became a book on Watts:

   On Saturday I saw two exhibitions of pictures. The first was the
   Royal Academy, where I went with Salter. There was one picture there,
   though the walls were decorated with frames very prettily. As to the
   one picture, if you look at an Academy catalogue you will see
   "Jonah": by G. F. Watts, and you will imagine a big silly picture of
   a whale. But if you go to Burlington House you will see something
   terrible. A spare, wild figure, clad in a strange sort of green with
   his head flung so far back that his upper part is a miracle of
   foreshortening, his hands thrust out, his face ghastly with ecstasy,
   his dry lips yelling aloud, a figure of everlasting protest and
   defiance. And as a background (perfect in harmony of colour) you have
   the tracery of the Assyrian bas-reliefs, such as survive in wrecks in
   the British Museum, a row of those processions of numberless captives
   bowing before smiling Kings: a cruel sort of art. And the passionate
   energy of that lonely screaming figure in front, makes you think of a
   great many things besides Assyrians: among others of some words of
   Renan: I quote from memory: "But the trace of Israel will be eternal.
   She it was who alone among the tyrannies of antiquity, raised her
   voice for the helpless, the oppressed, the forgotten."

   But this only expresses a fraction of it. The only thing to do is
   to come and look at this excited gentleman with bronze skin and hair
   that approaches green, his eyes simply white with madness. And Jonah
   said, "Yea, I do well to be angry: even unto death."

He had learnt to look at colour, to look at line, to describe pictures. But far more important
than this, he could now create in the imagination gardens and sunsets and sheer colour, so
as to give to his novels and stories pictorial value, to his fantasies glow, and to his poetry
vision of the realities of things. In his very first volume of Essays, The Defendant, were
to be passages that could be written only by one who had learnt to draw. For instance, in "A
Defence of Skeletons":

   The actual sight of the little wood, with its grey and silver sea
   of life is entirely a winter vision. So dim and delicate is the heart
   of the winter woods, a kind of glittering gloaming, that a figure
   stepping towards us in the chequered twilight seems as if he were
   breaking through unfathomable depths of spiders' webs.

In the year 1895, in which G.K. left art for publishing, he came of age "with a loud report."
He writes to Bentley:

   Being twenty-one years old is really rather good fun. It is one of
   those occasions when you remember the existence of all sorts of
   miscellaneous people. A cousin of mine, Alice Chesterton, daughter of
   my Uncle Arthur, writes me a delightfully cordial letter from Berlin,
   where she is a governess; and better still, my mother has received a
   most amusing letter from an old nurse of mine, an exceptionally nice
   and intelligent nurse, who writes on hearing that it is my
   twenty-first birthday. Billy (an epithet is suppressed) gave me a
   little notebook and a little photograph frame. The first thing I did
   with the notebook was to make a note of his birthday. The first thing
   I shall do with the frame will be to get Grey to give me a photograph
   of him to put into it. Yes, it is not bad, being twenty-one, in a
   world so full of kind people. . . .

   I have just been out and got soaking and dripping wet; one of my
   favourite dissipations. I never enjoy weather so much as when it is
   driving, drenching, rattling, washing rain. As Mr. Meredith says in
   the book you gave me, "Rain, O the glad refresher of the grain, and
   welcome waterspouts of blessed rain." (It is in a poem called "Earth
   and a Wedded Woman," which is fat.) Seldom have I enjoyed a walk so
   much. My sister water was all there and most affectionate. Everything
   I passed was lovely, a little boy pickabacking another little boy
   home, two little girls taking shelter with a gigantic umbrella, the
   gutters boiling like rivers and the hedges glittering with rain. And
   when I came to our corner the shower was over, and there was a great
   watery sunset right over No. 80, what Mr. Ruskin calls an "opening
   into Eternity." Eternity is pink and gold. This may seem a very
   strange rant, but it is one of my "specimen days." I suppose you
   would really prefer me to write as I feel, and I am so constituted
   that these Daily incidents get me that way. Yes, I like rain. It
   means something, I am not sure what; something freshening, cleaning,
   washing out, taking in hand, not caring-a-damn-what-you-think,
   doing-its-duty, robust, noisy, moral, wet. It is the Baptism of the
   Church of the Future.

   Yesterday afternoon (Sunday) Lawrence and Maurice came here. We were
   merely infants at play, had skipping races round the garden and
   otherwise raced. ("Runner, run thy race," said Confucius, "and in the
   running find strength and reward.") After that we tried talking about
   Magnus, and came to some hopeful conclusions. Magnus is all right. As
   for Lawrence and Grey, if there is anything righter than all right,
   they are that. . . .

   There is an expression in Meredith's book which struck me immensely:
   "the largeness of the evening earth." The sensation that the Cosmos
   has all its windows open is very characteristic of evening, just as
   it is at this moment. I feel very good. Everything out of the window
   looks very, very flat and yellow: I do not know how else to describe
   it.

   It is like the benediction at the end of the service.

CHAPTER V

The Notebook

I AM WRITING THIS chapter at a table facing Notre Dame de Paris in front of a café filled with
arguing French workmen--in the presence of God and of Man; and I feel as if I understood the
one hatred of G.K.'s life: his loathing of pessimism. "Is a man proud of losing his hearing,
eyesight or sense of smell? What shall we say of him who prides himself on beginning as an
intellectual cripple and ending as an intellectual corpse?"*

[* From The Notebook.]

   SOME PROPHECIES

   Woe unto them that keep a God like a silk hat, that believe not in
   God, but in a God.

   Woe unto them that are pompous for they will sooner or later be
   ridiculous.

   Woe unto them that are tired of everything, for everything will
   certainly be tired of them.

   Woe unto them that cast out everything, for out of everything they
   will be cast out.

   Woe unto them that cast out anything, for out of that thing they
   will be cast out.

   Woe unto the flippant, for they shall receive flippancy.

   Woe unto them that are scornful for they shall receive scorn.

   Woe unto him that considereth his hair foolishly, for his hair will
   be made the type of him.

   Woe unto him that is smart, for men will hold him smart always,
   even when he is serious.*

[* Ibid.]

A pessimist is a man who has never lived, never suffered: "Show me a person who has plenty
of worries and troubles and I will show you a person who, whatever he is, is not a pessimist."

This idea G.K. developed later in the Dickens, dealing with the alleged over-optimism of Dickens--Dickens
who if he had learnt to whitewash the universe had learnt it in a blacking factory, Dickens
who had learnt through hardship and suffering to accept and love the universe. But that he
wrote later. The quotations given here come from the Notebook begun in 1894 and used at intervals
for the next four or five years, in which Gilbert wrote down his philosophy step by step as
he came to discover it. The handwriting is the work of art that he must have learnt and practised,
so different is it from his boyhood's scrawl. Each idea is set down as it comes into his mind.
There is no sequence. In this book and in The Coloured Lands may be seen the creation of the
Chesterton view of life--and it all took place in his early twenties. From the seed-thoughts
here, Orthodoxy and the rest were to grow--here they are only seeds but seeds containing unmistakably
the flower of the future:

   They should not hear from me a word
   Of selfishness or scorn
   If only I could find the door
   If only I were born.

He makes the Unborn Babe say this in his first volume of poems. And in the Notebook we see
how the babe coming into the world must keep this promise by accepting life with its puzzles,
its beauty, its fleetingness: "Are we all dust? What a beautiful thing dust is though." "This
round earth may be a soap-bubble, but it must be admitted that there are some pretty colours
on it." "What is the good of life, it is fleeting; what is the good of a cup of coffee, it
is fleeting. Ha Ha Ha."

The birthday present of birth, as he was later to call it in Orthodoxy, involved not bare existence
only but a wealth of other gifts. "A grievance," he heads this thought:

   Give me a little time,
   I shall not be able to appreciate them all;
   If you open so many doors
   And give me so many presents, O Lord God.

He is almost overwhelmed with all that he has and with all that is, but accepts it ardently
in its completeness.

   If the arms of a man could be a fiery circle embracing the round
   world, I think I should be that man.

Yet in the face of all this splendour the pessimist dares to find flaws:

   The mountains praise thee, O Lord!
   But what if a mountain said,
   "I praise thee;
   But put a pine-tree halfway up on the left
   It would be much more effective, believe me."
   It is time that the religion of prayer gave
   place to the religion of praise.

If the mountains must praise God, if the religion of praise expresses the truth of things,
how much more does it express the truth of humanity--or rather of men, for he saw humanity
not as an abstraction but as the sum of human and intensely individual beings:

   Once I found a friend
   "Dear me," I said "he was made for me."
   But now I find more and more friends
   Who seem to have been made for me
   And more and yet more made for me,
   Is it possible we were all made for each other
   all over the world?

And on another page comes perhaps the most significant phrase in the book: "I wonder whether
there will ever come a time when I shall be tired of any one person." Hence a fantastic thought
of a way of making the discovery of more people to know and to like:

   THE HUMAN CIRCULATING LIBRARY NOTES

   Get out a gentleman for a fortnight, then change him for a lady, or
   your ticket. No person to be kept out after a fortnight, except with
   the payment of a penny a day. Any person morally or physically
   damaging a man will be held responsible. The library omnibus calls
   once a week leaving two or three each visit. Man of the season--old
   standard man.

Or better still:

   My great ambition is to give a party at which everybody should meet
   everybody else and like them very much.

   AN INVITATION

   Mr. Gilbert Chesterton
   requests the pleasure
   Of humanity's company
   to tea on Dec. 25th 1896.
   Humanity Esq., The Earth, Cosmos E.

G.K. liked everybody very much, and everything very much. He liked even the things most of
us dislike. He liked to get wet. He liked to be tired. After that one short period of struggle
he liked to call himself "always perfectly happy." And therefore he wanted to say, "Thank you."

   You say grace before meals
   All right.
   But I say grace before the play and the opera,
   And grace before the concert and pantomime,
   And grace before I open a book,
   And grace before sketching, painting,
   Swimming, fencing, boxing, walking, playing, dancing;
   And grace before I dip the pen in the ink.

Each day seemed a special gift; something that might not have been:

   EVENING

   Here dies another day
   During which I have had eyes, ears, hands
   And the great world round me;
   And with tomorrow begins another.
   Why am I allowed two?

   THE PRAYER OF A MAN WALKING

   I thank thee, O Lord, for the stones in the street
   I thank thee for the hay-carts yonder and for the
   houses built and half-built
   That fly past me as I stride.
   But most of all for the great wind in my nostrils
   As if thine own nostrils were close.

   THE PRAYER OF A MAN RESTING

   The twilight closes round me
   My head is bowed before the Universe
   I thank thee, O Lord, for a child I knew seven years ago
   And whom I have never seen since.

   Praised be God for all sides of life, for friends, lovers, art,
   literature, knowledge, humour, politics, and for the little red cloud
   away there in the west--

For, if he was to be grateful, to whom did he owe gratitude? Here is the chief question he
asked and answered at this time. At school he was looking for God, but at the age of 16 he
was, he tells us in Orthodoxy, an Agnostic in the sense of one who is not sure one way or the
other. Largely it was this need for gratitude for what seemed personal gifts that brought him
to belief in a personal God. Life was personal, it was not a mere drift; it had will in it,
it was more like a story.

   A story is the highest mark
   For the world is a story and every part of it
   And there is nothing that can touch the world or any part of it
   That is not a story.

And again, with the heading, "A Social Situation."

   We must certainly be in a novel;
   What I like about this novelist is that he takes
   such trouble about his minor characters.

The story shapes from man's birth and it is as he meets the other characters that he finds
he is in the right story.

   A MAN BORN ON THE EARTH

   Perhaps there has been some mistake
   How does he know he has come to the right place?
   But when he finds friends
   He knows he has come to the right place.

   You say it is a love affair
   Hush: it is a new Garden of Eden
   And a new progeny will people a new earth
   God is always making these experiments.

Life is a story: who tells it? Life is a problem: who sets it?

   The world is a problem, not a Theorem
   And the word of the last Day will be Q.E.F.

God sets the problem, God tells the story, but can those know Him who are characters in His
story, who are working out His problem?

   Have you ever known what it is to walk along a road in such a frame
   of mind that you thought you might meet God at any turn of the path?

For this a man must be ready, against this he must never shut the door.

   There is one kind of infidelity blacker than all infidelities,
   Worse than any blow of secularist, pessimist, atheist,
   It is that of those persons
   Who regard God as an old institution.

   VOICES

   The axe falls on the wood in thuds, "God, God."
   The cry of the rook, "God," answers it
   The crack of the fire on the hearth, the voice of the brook, say the
      same name;
   All things, dog, cat, fiddle, baby,
   Wind, breaker, sea, thunderclap
   Repeat in a thousand languages--
   God.

Next in his thought comes a point where he hesitates as to the meeting place between God and
Man. How and where can these two incommensurates find a meeting place? What is Incarnation?
The greatness and the littleness of Man obsessed Chesterton as it did Pascal; it is the eternal
riddle:

   TWO STRANDS

   Man is a spark flying upwards. God is everlasting.

   Who are we, to whom this cup of human life has been given, to ask
   for more? Let us love mercy and walk humbly. What is man, that thou
   regardest him?

   Man is a star unquenchable. God is in him incarnate.

   His life is planned upon a scale colossal, of which he sees
   glimpses. Let him dare all things, claim all things: he is the son
   of Man, who shall come in the clouds of glory.

   [I] saw these two strands mingling to make the religion of man.

"A scale colossal, of which he sees glimpses." This, I think, is the first hint of the path
that led Gilbert to full faith in Our Lord. In places in these notes he regards Him certainly
only as Man--but even then as The Man, the Only Man in whom the colossal scale, the immense
possibilities, of human nature could be dreamed of as fulfilled. Two notes on Marcus Aurelius
are significant of the way his mind was moving.

   MARCUS AURELIUS

   A large-minded, delicate-witted, strong man,
   following the better thing like a thread between his hands.

   Him we cannot fancy choosing the lower even by mistake; we cannot
   think of him as wanting for a moment in any virtue, sincerity, mercy,
   purity, self-respect, good manners.

   Only one thing is wanting in him. He does not
   command me to perform the impossible.

   THE CARPENTER

   The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius.
   Yes: he was soliloquising, not making something.
   Do not the words of Jesus ring
   Like nails knocked into a board
   In his father's workshop?

On two consecutive pages are notes showing how his mind is wrestling with the question, the
answer to which would complete his philosophy:

   XMAS DAY

   Good news: but if you ask me what it is, I know not;
   It is a track of feet in the snow,
   It is a lantern showing a path,
   It is a door set open.

   THE GRACE OF OUR LORD JESUS CHRIST

   I live in an age of varied powers and knowledge,
   Of steam, science, democracy, journalism, art:
   But when my love rises like a sea,
   I have to go back to an obscure tribe and a slain man
   To formulate a blessing.

   JULIAN

   "Vicisti Galilæe," he said, and sank conquered
   After wrestling with the most gigantic of powers,
   A dead man.

   THE CRUCIFIED

   On a naked slope of a poor province
   A Roman soldier stood staring at a gibbet,
   Then he said, "Surely this was a righteous man,"
   And a new chapter of history opened,
   Having that for its motto.

   PARABLES

   There was a man who dwelt in the east centuries ago,
   And now I cannot look at a sheep or a sparrow,
   A lily or a cornfield, a raven or a sunset,
   A vineyard or a mountain, without thinking of him;
   If this be not to be divine, what is it?

Cecil Chesterton tells us Gilbert read the Gospels partly because he was not forced to read
them: I suppose this really means that he read them with a mature mind which had not been dulled
to their reception by a childhood task of routine lessons. But I do not think at this date
it had occurred to him to question the assumption of the period: that official Christianity,
its priesthood especially, had travestied the original intention of Christ. This idea is in
the Wild Knight volume (published in 1900) and more briefly in a suggestion in the Notebook
for a proposed drama:

   Gabriel is hammering up a little theatre and the child looks at his
   hands, and finds them torn with nails.

   Clergyman. The Church should stand by the powers that be.

   Gabriel. Yes? . . . That is a handsome crucifix you have there at
   your chain.

That the clergy, that the Christian people, should have settled down to an acceptance of a
faulty established order, should not be alert to all that Our Lord's life signified, was one
of the problems. It was, too, a matter of that cosmic loyalty which he analyses more fully
in Orthodoxy. Here he simply writes:

   It is not a question of Theology, It is a question of whether,
   placed as a sentinel of an unknown watch, you will whistle or not.

Sentinels do go to sleep and he was coming to feel that this want of vigilance ran through
the whole of humanity. In "White Wynd," a sketch written at this time,* he adumbrates an idea
to which he was to return again in Manalive especially, and in Orthodoxy--that we can by custom
so lose our sense of reality that the only way to enjoy and be grateful for our possessions
is to lose them for a while. The shortest way home is to go round the world. In this story
of "White Wynd" he applies the parable only to each man's life and the world he lives in. But
in Orthodoxy he applies it to the human race who have lost revealed truth by getting so accustomed
to it that they no longer look at it. And already in the Notebook he is calling the attention
of a careless multitude to "that great Empire upon which the sun never sets. I allude to the
Universe."

[* It is published in The Coloured Lands.]

Most of the quotations about Our Lord come in the later part of the book: in the earlier pages
he dreams that "to this age it is given to write the great new song, and to compile the new
Bible, and to found the new Church, and preach the new Religion." And in one rather obscure
passage he seems to hint at the thought that Christ might come again to shape this new religion.

Going round the world, Gilbert was finding his way home; the explorer was rediscovering his
native country. He himself has given us all the metaphors for what was happening now in his
mind. Without a single Catholic friend he had discovered this wealth of Catholic truth and
he was still travelling. "All this I felt," he later summed it up in Orthodoxy, "and the age
gave me no encouragement to feel it. And all this time I had not even thought of Catholic theology."

CHAPTER VI

Towards a Career

A CURIOUS LITTLE incident comes towards the end of Gilbert's time at the Slade School. In a
letter he wrote to E. C. Bentley we see him, on the eve of his 21st birthday, being invited
to write for the Academy:

   Mr. Cotton is a little bristly, bohemian man, as fidgetty as a
   kitten, who runs round the table while he talks to you. When he
   agrees with you he shuts his eyes tight and shakes his head. When he
   means anything rather seriously he ends up with a loud nervous laugh.
   He talks incessantly and is mad on the history of Oxford. I sent him
   my review of Ruskin and he read it before me (Note. Hell) and
   delivered himself with astonishing rapidity to the following effect:
   "This is very good: you've got something to say: Oh, yes: this is
   worth saying: I agree with you about Ruskin and about the Century:
   this is good: you've no idea: if you saw some stuff: some reviews I
   get: the fellows are practised but of all the damned fools: you've no
   idea: they know the trade in a way: but such infernal asses: as send
   things up: but this is very good: that sentence does run nicely:
   but I like your point: make it a little longer and then send it in:
   I've got another book for you to review: you know Robert Bridges? Oh
   very good, very good: here it is: about two columns you know: by the
   way: keep the Ruskin for yourself: you deserve that anyhow."

   Here I got a word in: one of protest and thanks. But Mr. Cotton
   insisted on my accepting the Ruskin. So I am really to serve Laban.
   Laban proves on analysis to be of the consistency of brick. It is
   such men as this that have made our Cosmos what it is. At one point
   he said, literally dancing with glee: "Oh, the other day I stuck some
   pins into Andrew Lang." I said, "Dear me, that must be a very good
   game." It was something about an edition of Scott, but I was told
   that Andrew "took" the painful operation "very well." We sat up
   horribly late together talking about Browning, Afghans, Notes, the
   Yellow Book, the French Revolution, William Morris, Norsemen and Mr.
   Richard le Gallienne. "I don't despair for anyone," he said suddenly.
   "Hang it all, that's what you mean by humanity." This appears to be a
   rather good editor of the Academy. And my joy in having begun my
   life is very great. "I am tired," I said to Mr. Brodribb, "of writing
   only what I like." "Oh well," he said heartily, "you'll have no
   reason to make that complaint in journalism."

But here is a mystery. Nowhere in the Academy columns for 1895 or 1896 are to be seen the initials
G.K.C., yet at that date all the reviews are signed. Mr. Eccles, who was writing for it at
the time, told me that he had no recollection of G.K. among the contributors--and later he
came to know him well when both were together on the Speaker. In any case, the idea of reviewing
for no reward except the book reviewed would scarcely appeal to a more practical man than Gilbert
as a hopeful beginning. Perhaps the mystery is solved by the fact that soon after the date
of this letter Mr. Cotton got an appointment in India. To Mr. Eccles it appeared somewhat ironical
that the unpaid contributors to the Academy were circularised with a suggestion of contributions
of money towards a parting present for their late editor.

The actual beginning of G.K.'s journalism was in The Bookman; and in the Autobiography he insists
that it was a matter of mere luck: "these opportunities were merely things that happened to
me." While still at the Slade School, he was, as we have seen, attending English lectures at
University College. There he met a fellow-student, Ernest Hodder Williams, of the family which
controlled the publishing house of Hodder & Stoughton. He gave Chesterton some books on art
to review for The Bookman, a monthly paper published by the firm. "I need not say," G.K. comments,
"that having entirely failed to learn how to draw or paint, I tossed off easily enough some
criticisms of the weaker points of Rubens or the misdirected talents of Tintoretto. I had discovered
the easiest of all professions, which I have pursued ever since." But neither in the art criticism
he wrote for The Bookman nor in the poems he was to publish in The Outlook and The Speaker
was there a living. He left the Slade School and went to work for a publisher.

Mr. Redway, in whose office Gilbert now found himself, was a publisher largely of spiritualist
literature. Gilbert has described in his Autobiography his rather curious experience of ghostly
authorship, but he relates nothing of his office experience, which is described in another
undated letter to Mr. Bentley:

   I am writing this letter just when I like most to write one, late
   at night, after a beastly lot of midnight oil over a contribution for
   a Slade Magazine, intended as a public venture. I am sending them a
   recast of that "Picture of Tuesday."

   Like you, I am beastly busy, but there is something exciting about
   it. If I must be busy (as I certainly must, being an approximately
   honest man) I had much rather be busy in a varied, mixed up way, with
   half a hundred things to attend to, than with one blank day of
   monotonous "study" before me. To give you some idea of what I mean. I
   have been engaged in 3 different tiring occupations and enjoyed them
   all. (1) Redway says, "We've got too many MSS; read through them,
   will you, and send back those that are too bad at once." I go slap
   through a room full of MSS, criticising deuced conscientiously, with
   the result that I post back some years of MSS to addresses, which I
   should imagine, must be private asylums. But one feels worried,
   somehow. . . .

   (2) Redway says, "I'm going to give you entire charge of the press
   department, sending copies to Reviews, etc." Consequence is, one has
   to keep an elaborate book and make it tally with other elaborate
   books, and one has to remember all the magazines that exist and what
   sort of books they'd crack up. I used to think I hated
   responsibility: I am positively getting to enjoy it. (3) There is
   that confounded "Picture of Tuesday" which I have been scribbling at
   the whole evening, and have at last got it presentable. This sounds
   like mere amusement, but, now that I have tried other kinds of hurry
   and bustle, I solemnly pledge myself to the opinion that there is no
   work so tiring as writing, that is, not for fun, but for publication.
   Other work has a repetition, a machinery, a reflex action about it
   somewhere, but to be on the stretch inventing fillings, making them
   out of nothing, making them as good as you can for a matter of four
   hours leaves me more inclined to lie down and read Dickens than I
   ever feel after nine hours ramp at Redway's. The worst of it is that
   you always think the thing so bad too when you're in that state. I
   can't imagine anything more idiotic than what I've just finished.
   Well, enough of work and all its works. By all means come on Monday
   evening, but don't be frightened if by any chance I'm not in till
   about 6.30, as Monday is a busy day. Of course you'll stop to
   dinner . . . what an idiotically long time 8 weeks is. . . .

This letter does not seem to bear out the suggestion in Cecil's book* of Gilbert's probable
uselessness to the publishers for whom he worked. After all, literacy is more needful to most
publishers than automatic practicality, because it is so very much rarer. Probably G.K. would
have been absolutely invaluable had he been a little less kind-hearted. His dislike of sending
back a manuscript and making an author unhappy would have been a bar to his utility as a reader.
But there are lots of other things to do besides rejecting manuscripts, and two later letters
show how capable Gilbert was felt to be in doing most of them.

[* G. K. Chesterton: A Criticism, see p. 23.]

The exact date at which he left Redway's for the publishing firm of Fisher Unwin (of 11 Paternoster
Buildings) I cannot discover, but it was fairly early and he was several years with Fisher
Unwin, only gradually beginning to move over into journalism.

"He did nothing for himself," says Lucian Oldershaw, "till we [Bentley and Oldershaw] came
down from Oxford and pushed him."

The following letters belong to 1898, being written to Frances when they were already engaged,
but I put them here as they give some notion of the work he did for his employer.

   . . . The book I have to deal with for Unwin is an exhaustive and I
   am told interesting work on "Rome and the Empire" a kind of
   realistic, modern account of the life of the ancient world. I have
   got to fix it up, choose illustrations, introductions, notes, etc.,
   and all because I am the only person who knows a little Latin and
   precious little Roman history and no more archaeology than a blind
   cat. It is entertaining, and just like our firm's casual way. The
   work ought to be done by an authority on Roman antiquities. If I
   hadn't been there they would have given it to the office boy.

   However, I shall get through it all right: the more I see of the
   publishing world, the more I come to the conclusion that I know next
   to nothing, but that the vast mass of literary people know less. This
   is sometimes called having "a public-school education."*

[* Extract from undated letter (postmarked, Aug. 11, 1898).]

*   *   *

   I have a lot of work to do, as Unwin has given the production of an
   important book entirely into my hands, as a kind of invisible editor.
   It is complimentary, but very worrying, and will mean a lot of time
   at the British Museum.*

[* Extract from undated letter (postmarked, Aug. 29, 1898).]

   11 Paternoster Bldgs.
   (Postmark, December 1898)

   . . . For fear that you should really suppose that my observations
   about being busy are the subterfuges of a habitual liar, I may give
   you briefly some idea of the irons at present in the fire. As far as
   I can make out there are at least seven things that I have undertaken
   to do and everyone of them I ought to do before any of the others.

   1st. There is the book about Ancient Rome which I have to do for
   T.F.U.--arrange and get illustrations etc. This all comes of showing
   off. It is a story with a moral (Greedy Gilbert: or Little Boys
   Should be Seen and not Heard). A short time ago I had to read a
   treatise by Dean Stubbs on "The Ideal Woman of the Poets" in which
   the Dean remarked that "all the women admired by Horace were
   wantons." This struck me as a downright slander, slight as is my
   classical knowledge, and in my report I asked loftily what Dean
   Stubbs made of those noble lines on the wife who hid her husband
   from his foes.

   Splendide mendax et in omne virgo
   Nobilis aevum

   One of the purest and stateliest tributes ever made to a woman.
   (The lines might be roughly rendered "A magnificent liar and a noble
   lady for all eternity"; but no translation can convey the
   organ-voice of the verse, in which the two strong and lonely words
   "noble" and "eternity" stand solitary for the last line.) In
   consequence of my taking up the cudgels against a live Dean for the
   manly moral sense of the dear old Epicurean, the office became
   impressed with a vague idea that I know something about Latin
   literature--whereas, as a matter of fact I have forgotten even the
   line before the one I quoted. However, in the most confidential and
   pathetic manner I was entrusted with doing with "Rome et l'Empire"
   work which ought to be done by a scholar. . . .

   2nd. Then there is Captain Webster. You ask (in gruff, rumbling
   tones) "Who is Captain Webster?" I will tell you.

   Captain Webster is a small man with a carefully waxed moustache and
   a very Bond Street get up, living at the Grosvenor Hotel. Talking to
   him you would say: he is an ass, but an agreeable ass, a humble,
   transparent honourable ass. He is an innocent and idiotic butterfly.
   The interesting finishing touch is that he has been to New Guinea for
   four years or so, and had some of the most hideous and extravagant
   adventures that could befall a modern man. His yacht was surrounded
   by shoals of canoes full of myriads of cannibals of a race who file
   their teeth to look like the teeth of dogs, and hang weights in their
   ears till the ears hang like dogs' ears, on the shoulder. He held his
   yacht at the point of the revolver and got away, leaving some of his
   men dead on the shore. All night long he heard the horrible noise of
   the banqueting gongs and saw the huge fires that told his friends
   were being eaten. Now he lives in the Grosvenor Hotel. Captain
   Webster finds the pen, not only mightier than the sword, but also
   much more difficult. He has written his adventures and we are to
   publish them and I am translating the honest captain into English
   grammar, a thing which appals him much more than Papuan savages. This
   means going through it carefully of course and rewriting many parts
   of it, where relatives and dependent sentences have been lost past
   recovery. I went to see him, and his childlike dependence on me was
   quite pathetic. His general attitude was, "You see I'm such a damned
   fool." And so he is. But when I compare him with the Balzacian
   hauteur and the preposterous posing of many of our Fleet Street
   decadent geniuses, I feel a movement of the blood which declares that
   perhaps there are worse things than War. (Between ourselves, I have a
   sneaking sympathy with fighting: I fought horribly at school. It is
   well you should know my illogicalities.)

   3rd. There is the selection of illustrations for the History of
   China we are producing. I know no more of China than the Man in the
   Moon (less, for he has seen it, at any rate), except what I got from
   reading the book, but of course I shall make the most of what I do
   know and airily talk of La-o-tsee and Wu-sank-Wei, criticise
   Chung-tang and Fu-Tche, compare Tchieu Lung with his great successor,
   whose name I have forgotten, and the Napoleonic vigour of Li with the
   weak opportunism of Woo. Before I have done I hope people will be
   looking behind for my pig-tail. The name I shall adopt will be
   Tches-Ter-Ton.

   4th. A MS to read translated from the Norwegian: a History of the
   Kiss, Ceremonial, Amicable, Amatory, etc.--in the worst French
   sentimental style. God alone knows how angry I am with the author of
   that book. I am not sure that I shall not send up the brief report.
   "A snivelling hound."

   5th. The book for Nutt [Greybeards at Play], which has reached
   its worst stage, that of polishing up for the eye of Nutt, instead of
   merely rejoicing in the eye of God. Do you know this is the only one
   of the lot about which I am at all worried. I do not feel as if
   things like the Fish poem are really worth publishing. I know they
   are better than many books that are published, but Heaven knows that
   is not saying much. In support of some of my work I would fight to
   the last. But with regard to this occasional verse I feel a humbug.
   To publish a book of my nonsense verses seems to me exactly like
   summoning the whole of the people of Kensington to see me smoke
   cigarettes.

   Macgregor told me that I should do much better in the business of
   literature if I found the work more difficult. My facility, he said,
   led me to undervalue my work. I wonder whether this is true, and
   those silly rhymes are any good after all.

   6th. The collection of more serious poems of which I spoke to you.
   You shall have a hand in the selection of these when you get back.

   7th. The Novel--which though I have put it aside for the present,
   yet has become too much a part of me not to be constantly having
   chapters written--or rather growing out of the others.

   And all these things, with the exception of the last one, are
   supposed to be really urgent, and to be done immediately. . . . Now I
   hope I have sickened you forever of wanting to know the details of my
   dull affairs. But I hope it may give you some notion of how hard it
   really is to get time for writing just now. For you see they are none
   of them even mechanical things: they all require some thinking about.

   I am afraid . . . that if you really want to know what I do, you
   must forgive me for seeming egoistic. That is the tragedy of the
   literary person: his very existence is an assertion of his own mental
   vanity: he must pretend to be conceited even if he isn't. . . .

Beginning to publish, beginning to write, and still developing mentally at a frantic rate--this
is a summary of the years 1895-8.

As the Notebook shows, Gilbert was reflecting deeply at this time on the relations both between
God and man and between man and his fellow man. The realisation that their relations had gone
very far wrong was necessarily followed--for Gilbert's mind was an immensely practical one--by
the question of what the proposed remedies were worth. He has told us that he became a Socialist
at this time only because it was intolerable not to be a Socialist. The Socialists seemed the
only people who were looking at conditions as they were and finding them unendurable. Christian
Socialism seemed at first sight, for anyone who admired Christ, to be the obvious form of Socialism,
and, in a fragment of this period, G.K. traces the resemblance of modern collectivism to early
Christianity.

   The points in which Christian and Socialistic collectivism are at
   one are simple and fundamental. As, however, we must proceed
   carefully in this matter, we may state these points of resemblance
   under three heads.

   (1) Both rise from the deeps of an emotion, the emotion of compassion
   for misfortune, as such. This is really a very important point.
   Collectivism is not an intellectual fad, even if erroneous, but a
   passionate protest and aspiration: it arises as a secret of the
   heart, a dream of the injured feeling, long before it shapes itself
   as a definite propaganda at all. The intellectual philosophies ally
   themselves with success and preach competition, but the human heart
   allies itself with misfortune and suggests communism.

   (2) Both trace the evil state of society to "covetousness," the
   competitive desire to accumulate riches. Thus, both in one case and
   the other, the mere possession of wealth is in itself an offence
   against moral order, the absence of it in itself a recommendation and
   training for the higher life.

   (3) Both propose to remedy the evil of competition by a system of
   "bearing each other's burdens" in the literal sense, that is to say,
   of levelling, silencing and reducing one's own chances, for the
   chance of your weaker brethren. The desirability, they say, of a
   great or clever man acquiring fame is small compared with the
   desirability of a weak and broken man acquiring bread. The strong man
   is a man, and should modify or adapt himself to the hopes of his
   mates. He that would be first among you, let him be the servant of
   all.

   These are the three fountains of collectivist passion. I have not
   considered it necessary to enter into elaborate proof of the presence
   of these three in the Gospels. That the main trend of Jesus'
   character was compassion for human ills, that he denounced not merely
   covetousness but riches again and again, and with an almost impatient
   emphasis, and that he insisted on his followers throwing up personal
   aims and sharing funds and fortune entirely, these are plain matters
   of evidence presented again and again, and, in fact, of common
   admission.

Yet that uncanny thing in Gilbert which always forced him to see facts, mutinied again at this
point and produced another fragment in which he has moved closer to Christianity and thereby
further away from modern Socialism. The world he lived in contained a certain number of Christians
who were, he found, highly doubtful about the Christian impulse of Socialism. And most of his
Socialist friends had about them a tone of bitterness and an atmosphere of hopelessness utterly
unlike the tone and the atmosphere of Christianity. Just as atheists were the first people
to turn Gilbert from Atheism towards dogmatic Christianity, so the Socialists were now turning
him from Socialism.

The next fragment is rather long, but it was never published and I think it so important, as
showing how his mind was moving, that it cannot well be shortened. It is a document of capital
importance for the biography of Chesterton.

   Now, for my own part, I cannot in the least agree with those who
   see no difference between Christian and modern Socialism, nor do I
   for a moment join in some Christian Socialists' denunciations of
   those worthy middle-class people who cannot see the connection. For I
   cannot help thinking that in a way these latter people are right. No
   reasonable man can read the Sermon on the Mount and think that its
   tone is not very different from that of most collectivist speculation
   of the present day, and the Philistines feel this, though they cannot
   distinctly express it. There is a difference between Christ's
   Socialist program and that of our own time, a difference deep,
   genuine and all important, and it is this which I wish to point out.

   Let us take two types side by side, or rather the same type in the
   two different atmospheres. Let us take the "rich young man" of the
   Gospels and place beside him the rich young man of the present day,
   on the threshold of Socialism. If we were to follow the difficulties,
   theories, doubts, resolves, and conclusions of each of these
   characters, we should find two very distinct threads of
   self-examination running through the two lives. And the essence of
   the difference was this: the modern Socialist is saying, "What will
   society do?" while his prototype, as we read, said, "What shall I
   do?" Properly considered, this latter sentence contains the whole
   essence of the older Communism. The modern Socialist regards his
   theory of regeneration as a duty which society owes to him, the early
   Christian regarded it as a duty which he owed to society; the modern
   Socialist is busy framing schemes for its fulfilment, the early
   Christian was busy considering whether he would himself fulfil it
   there and then; the ideal of modern Socialism is an elaborate Utopia
   to which he hopes the world may be tending, the ideal of the early
   Christian was an actual nucleus "living the new life" to whom he
   might join himself if he liked. Hence the constant note running
   through the whole gospel, of the importance, difficulty and
   excitement of the "call," the individual and practical request made
   by Christ to every rich man, "sell all thou hast and give to the
   poor."

   To us Socialism comes speculatively as a noble and optimistic
   theory of what may [be] the crown of progress, to Peter and James and
   John it came practically as a crisis of their own Daily life, a
   stirring question of conduct and renunciation.

   We do not therefore in the least agree with those who hold that
   modern Socialism is an exact counterpart or fulfilment of the
   socialism of Christianity. We find the difference important and
   profound, despite the common ground of anti-selfish collectivism. The
   modern Socialist regards Communism as a distant panacea for society,
   the early Christian regarded it as an immediate and difficult
   regeneration of himself: the modern Socialist reviles, or at any rate
   reproaches, society for not adopting it, the early Christian
   concentrated his thoughts on the problem of his own fitness and
   unfitness to adopt it: to the modern Socialist it is a theory, to the
   early Christian it was a call; modern Socialism says, "Elaborate a
   broad, noble and workable system and submit it to the progressive
   intellect of society." Early Christianity said, "Sell all thou hast
   and give to the poor."

   This distinction between the social and personal way of regarding
   the change has two sides, a spiritual and a practical which we
   propose to notice. The spiritual side of it, though of less direct
   and revolutionary importance than the practical, has still a very
   profound philosophic significance. To us it appears something
   extraordinary that this Christian side of Socialism, the side of the
   difficulty of the personal sacrifice, and the patience, cheerfulness,
   and good temper necessary for the protracted personal surrender is so
   constantly overlooked. The literary world is flooded with old men
   seeing visions and young men dreaming dreams, with various stages of
   anti-competitive enthusiasm, with economic apocalypses, elaborate
   Utopias and mushroom destinies of mankind. And, as far as we have
   seen, in all this whirlwind of theoretic excitement there is not a
   word spoken of the intense practical difficulty of the summons to the
   individual, the heavy, unrewarding cross borne by him who gives up
   the world.

   For it will not surely be denied that not only will Socialism be
   impossible without some effort on the part of individuals, but that
   Socialism if once established would be rapidly dissolved, or worse
   still, diseased, if the individual members of the community did not
   make a constant effort to do that which in the present state of human
   nature must mean an effort, to live the higher life. Mere state
   systems could not bring about and still less sustain a reign of
   unselfishness, without a cheerful decision on the part of the members
   to forget selfishness even in little things, and for that most
   difficult and at the same time most important personal decision
   Christ made provision and the modern theorists make no provision at
   all. Some modern Socialists do indeed see that something more is
   necessary for the golden age than fixed incomes and universal stores
   tickets, and that the fountain heads of all real improvement are to
   be found in human temper and character. Mr. William Morris, for
   instance, in his "News from Nowhere" gives a beautiful picture of a
   land ruled by Love, and rightly grounds the give-and-take camaraderie
   of his ideal state upon an assumed improvement in human nature. But
   he does not tell us how such an improvement is to be effected, and
   Christ did. Of Christ's actual method in this matter I shall speak
   afterwards when dealing with the practical aspect, my object just now
   is to compare the spiritual and emotional effects of the call of
   Christ, as compared to those of the vision of Mr. William Morris.
   When we compare the spiritual attitudes of two thinkers, one of whom
   is considering whether social history has been sufficiently a course
   of improvement to warrant him in believing that it will culminate in
   universal altruism, while the other is considering whether he loves
   other people enough to walk down tomorrow to the market-place and
   distribute everything but his staff and his scrip, it will not be
   denied that the latter is likely to undergo certain deep and acute
   emotional experiences, which will be quite unknown to the former. And
   these emotional experiences are what we understand as the spiritual
   aspect of the distinction. For three characteristics at least the
   Galilean programme makes more provision; humility, activity,
   cheerfulness, the real triad of Christian virtues.

   Humility is a grand, a stirring thing, the exalting paradox of
   Christianity, and the sad want of it in our own time is, we believe,
   what really makes us think life dull, like a cynic, instead of
   marvellous, like a child. With this, however, we have at present
   nothing to do. What we have to do with is the unfortunate fact that
   among no persons is it more wanting than among Socialists, Christian
   and other. The isolated or scattered protest for a complete change in
   social order, the continual harping on one string, the necessarily
   jaundiced contemplation of a system already condemned, and above all,
   the haunting pessimistic whisper of a possible hopelessness of
   overcoming the giant forces of success, all these impart undeniably
   to the modern Socialist a tone excessively imperious and bitter. Nor
   can we reasonably blame the average money-getting public for their
   impatience with the monotonous virulence of men who are constantly
   reviling them for not living communistically, and who after all, are
   not doing it themselves. Willingly do we allow that these latter
   enthusiasts think it impossible in the present state of society to
   practise their ideal, but this fact, while vindicating their
   indisputable sincerity, throws an unfortunate vagueness and
   inconclusiveness over their denunciations of other people in the same
   position. Let us compare with this arrogant and angry tone among the
   modern Utopians who can only dream "the life," the tone of the early
   Christian who was busy living it. As far as we know, the early
   Christians never regarded it as astonishing that the world as they
   found it was competitive and unregenerate; they seem to have felt
   that it could not in its pre-Christian ignorance have been anything
   else, and their whole interest was bent on their own standard of
   conduct and exhortation which was necessary to convert it. They felt
   that it was by no merit of theirs that they had been enabled to enter
   into the life before the Romans, but simply as a result of the fact
   that Christ had appeared in Galilee and not in Rome. Lastly, they
   never seem to have entertained a doubt that the message would itself
   convert the world with a rapidity and ease which left no room for
   severe condemnation of the heathen societies.

   With regard to the second merit, that of activity, there can be
   little doubt as to where it lies between the planner of the Utopia
   and the convert of the brotherhood. The modern Socialist is a
   visionary, but in this he is on the same ground as half the great men
   of the world, and to some extent of the early Christian himself, who
   rushed towards a personal ideal very difficult to sustain. The
   visionary who yearns toward an ideal which is practically impossible
   is not useless or mischievous, but often the opposite; but the person
   who is often useless, and always mischievous, is the visionary who
   dreams with the knowledge or the half-knowledge that his ideal is
   impossible. The early Christian might be wrong in believing that by
   entering the brotherhood men could in a few years become perfect even
   as their Father in Heaven was perfect, but he believed it and acted
   flatly and fearlessly on the belief: this is the type of the higher
   visionary. But all the insidious dangers of the vision; the idleness,
   the procrastination, the mere mental aestheticism, come in when the
   vision is indulged, as half our Socialistic conceptions are, as a
   mere humour or fairy-tale, with a consciousness, half-confessed, that
   it is beyond practical politics, and that we need not be troubled
   with its immediate fulfilment. The visionary who believes in his own
   most frantic vision is always noble and useful. It is the visionary
   who does not believe in his vision who is the dreamer, the idler, the
   Utopian. This then is the second moral virtue of the older school, an
   immense direct sincerity of action, a cleansing away, by the sweats
   of hard work, of all those subtle and perilous instincts of mere
   ethical castle-building which have been woven like the spells of an
   enchantress, round so many of the strong men of our own time.

   The third merit, which I have called cheerfulness, is really the
   most important of all. We may perhaps put the comparison in this way.
   It might strike many persons as strange that in a time on the whole
   so optimistic in its intellectual beliefs as this is, in an age when
   only a small minority disbelieve in social progress, and a large
   majority believe in an ultimate social perfection, there should be
   such a tired and blasé feeling among numbers of young men. This, we
   think, is due, not to the want of an ultimate ideal, but to that of
   any immediate way of making for it: not of something to hope but of
   something to do. A human being is not satisfied and never will be
   satisfied with being told that it is all right: what he wants is not
   a prediction of what other people will be hundreds of years hence, to
   make him cheerful, but a new and stirring test and task for himself,
   which will assuredly make him cheerful. A knight is not contented
   with the statement that his commander has hid his plans so as to
   insure victory: what the knight wants is a sword. This demand for a
   task is not mere bravado, it is an eternal and natural part of the
   higher optimism, as deep-rooted as the foreshadowing of perfection.

I do not know whether Gilbert would yet have actually called himself a Christian. He was certainly
tending towards the more Christian elements in his surroundings. It seems pretty clear from
all he wrote and said later that he did not hold that transformation to have been fully effected
until after his meeting with Frances, to whom he wrote many years later:

   Therefore I bring these rhymes to you
   Who brought the Cross to me.

These papers are undated and are arranged in no sequence. It is possible this last one was
written after their first meeting. Certain it is that in it he had begun feeling after a more
Christian arrangement of society than Socialism offered--and particularly after an arrangement
better suited to the nature of man. This thought of man's nature as primary was to remain the
basis of his social thinking to the end of his life.

CHAPTER VII

Incipit Vita Nova

IN THE NOTEBOOK may be seen Gilbert's occasional thoughts about his own future love story.

   SUDDENLY IN THE MIDST

   Suddenly in the midst of friends,
   Of brothers known to me more and more,
   And their secrets, histories, tastes, hero-worships,
   Schemes, love-affairs, known to me
   Suddenly I felt lonely.
   Felt like a child in a field with no more games to play
   Because I have not a lady
   to whom to send my thought at that hour
   that she might crown my peace.

   MADONNA MIA

   About her whom I have not yet met
   I wonder what she is doing
   Now, at this sunset hour,
   Working perhaps, or playing, worrying or laughing,
   Is she making tea, or singing a song, or writing,
      or praying, or reading
   Is she thoughtful, as I am thoughtful
   Is she looking now out of the window
   As I am looking out of the window?

But a few pages later comes the entry:

   F.B.

   You are a very stupid person.
   I don't believe you have the least idea how nice you are.

F.B. was Frances, daughter of a diamond merchant some time dead. The family was of French descent,
the name de Blogue having been somewhat unfortunately anglicised into Blogg. They had fallen
from considerable wealth into a degree of poverty that made it necessary for the three daughters
to earn a living. Frances was never strong and Gilbert has told how utterly exhausted she was
at the end of each day's toil--"she worked very hard as secretary of an educational society
in London."* The family lived in Bedford Park, a suburb of London that went in for artistic
housing and a kind of garden-city atmosphere long before this was at all general. Judging by
their photographs the three girls must all have been remarkably pretty, and young men frequented
the house in great numbers, among them Brimley Johnson who was engaged to Gertrude, and Lucian
Oldershaw who later married Ethel. Some time in 1896, Oldershaw took Gilbert to call and Gilbert,
literally at first sight, fell in love with Frances.

[* Autobiography, p. 153.]

   TO MY LADY

   God made you very carefully
   He set a star apart for it
   He stained it green and gold with fields
   And aureoled it with sunshine
   He peopled it with kings, peoples, republics
   And so made you, very carefully.
   All nature is God's book, filled with his rough sketches for you.*

[* The Notebook.]

When almost forty years later Gilbert was writing his Autobiography, Frances asked him to keep
her out of it. The liking they both had for keeping private life private made him call it "this
very Victorian narrative." Nevertheless he tells us something of the early days of their acquaintance.
Gilbert had mentioned the moon:

   She told me in the most normal and unpretentious tone that she
   hated the moon. I talked to the same lady several times afterwards;
   and found that this was a perfectly honest statement of the fact. Her
   attitude on this and other things might be called a prejudice; but it
   could not possibly be called a fad, still less an affectation. She
   really had an obstinate objection to all those natural forces that
   seemed to be sterile or aimless; she disliked loud winds that seemed
   to be going nowhere; she did not care much for the sea, a spectacle
   of which I was very fond; and by the same instinct she was up against
   the moon, which she said looked like an imbecile. On the other hand,
   she had a sort of hungry appetite for all the fruitful things like
   fields and gardens and anything connected with production; about
   which she was quite practical. She practised gardening; in that
   curious cockney culture she would have been quite ready to practise
   farming; and on the same perverse principle, she actually practised a
   religion. This was something utterly unaccountable both to me and to
   the whole fussy culture in which she lived. Any number of people
   proclaimed religions, chiefly oriental religions, analysed or argued
   about them; but that anybody could regard religion as a practical
   thing like gardening was something quite new to me and, to her
   neighbours, new and incomprehensible. She had been, by an accident,
   brought up in the school of an Anglo-Catholic convent; and to all
   that agnostic or mystic world, practising a religion was much more
   puzzling than professing it. She was a queer card. She wore a green
   velvet dress barred with grey fur, which I should have called
   artistic, but that she hated all the talk about art; and she had an
   attractive face, which I should have called elvish, but that she
   hated all the talk about elves. But what was arresting and almost
   blood-curdling about her, in that social atmosphere, was not so much
   that she hated it, as that she was entirely unaffected by it. She
   never knew what was meant by being "under the influence" of Yeats or
   Shaw or Tolstoy or anybody else. She was intelligent, with a great
   love of literature, and especially of Stevenson. But if Stevenson had
   walked into the room and explained his personal doubts about personal
   immortality, she would have regretted that he should be wrong upon
   the point; but would otherwise have been utterly unaffected. She was
   not at all like Robespierre, except in a taste for neatness in dress;
   and yet it is only in Mr. Belloc's book on Robespierre that I have
   ever found any words that describe the unique quality that cut her
   off from the current culture and saved her from it. "God had given
   him in his mind a stone tabernacle in which certain great truths were
   preserved imperishable."*

[* Autobiography, pp. 151-3.]

A letter to a friend, Mildred Wain, who was now engaged to Waldo d'Avigdor, makes the future
tolerably easy to foresee.

   . . . My brother wishes me to thank you with ferocious gratitude
   for the music, which he is enjoying tremendously. It reminds me
   rather of what Miss Frances Blogg--but that is another story.

   In your last letter you enquired whether I saw anything of the
   Bloggs now. If you went and put that question to them there would be
   a scene. Mrs. Blogg would probably fall among the fire-irons, Knollys
   would foam in convulsions on the carpet, Ethel would scream and take
   refuge on the mantelpiece and Gertrude faint and break off her
   engagement. Frances would--but no intelligent person can affect an
   interest in what she does.

Lawrence Solomon told me that Mrs. Edward Chesterton did not approve of the rather arty-crafty
atmosphere of Bedford Park--that earliest of Garden Cities, so conventionally unconventional--where
Frances lived. She did not like her son's friendship with the Bloggs and she had chosen for
him a girl who she felt would make him an ideal wife: "Very open air," Mr. Solomon said. "Not
booky, but good at games and practical." He was not sure whether Gilbert realised this, but
personally I believe that Gilbert realised everything.

"Of course you know," Annie Firmin wrote to me, "that Aunt Marie never liked Frances? Or Bentley?"
Annie was the girl chosen by Gilbert's mother. She was very much a member of the family.

"Did Gilbert ever speak to you," she wrote to me recently, "of the old Saturday night parties
at Barnes, at the home of the grandparents--every Saturday night the family, or as many of
it as could, used to go down to Barnes to supper, and the 'boys' and Tom Gilbert, Alice Chesterton's
husband, used to sing round the supper table. Many a one I went to when I was staying at Warwick
Gardens. We used to go on a red Hammersmith bus, before the days of motor cars."

On a longer trip they stayed at Berck in Belgium, and Cecil had a strange idea, apparently
regarded by him as humorous, which measures the family absence of a Christian sense at this
date. "Cecil urged me to sit at the foot of the big Crucifix in the village street and let
him photograph me as Mary Magdalen! I didn't, and I don't know how he thought he'd get away
with the modern clothing."

Whatever Gilbert's mother may have planned for them, neither she nor Gilbert had any romantic
feeling for each other. Indeed Cecil was definitely her favourite and she believed him the
favourite of both parents also. "He had more heart," she says, "than the more brilliant Gilbert."
Anyhow, his heart was shown more openly to her.

"Cecil was not much given to versifying," she wrote in another letter, "he sent me the enclosed
when my son was born. I value it so much." Headed "To Annie" the poem is a long one. It begins
with the "ancient comradeship, loyal and unbroken" in which they had "first seen life together."

   Shining nights, tumultuous days,
   Joy swift caught in sudden ways,
   All the laughter, love and praise,
   All the joys of living

   These we shared together dear,
   Plot and jest and story,
   This is hid, shut off, unknown,
   Seeing that to you alone
   Is the wondrous Kingdom shown
   And the power and Glory!

Annie's thoughts, then, and Cecil's were not greatly on the elder brother, who was pursuing
his own romance with a heart that seems to have been fairly adequate in its energies.

Most mothers have watched their sons through one or more experiences of calf love: Gilbert
indicates in the Autobiography--and I knew it, too, from some jokes he and Frances used to
make--that he had had one or two fancies before the coming of Reality. He must then convince
his mother that Reality had come: he must overcome a prejudice avowed by neither: he must call
on the deeps of a mother's feelings so effectively that it would never now be avowed, that
it might indeed be swept away.

And so, sitting at a table in a seaside lodging, as his mother sat in the same room or moved
about making cocoa for the family, Gilbert tried to express what even for him was the inexpressible.

   1 Rosebery Villas
   Granville Road
   Felixstowe.

   MY DEAREST MOTHER,

   You may possibly think this a somewhat eccentric proceeding. You
   are sitting opposite and talking--about Mrs. Berline. But I take this
   method of addressing you because it occurs to me that you might
   possibly wish to turn the matter over in your mind before writing or
   speaking to me about it.

   I am going to tell you the whole of a situation in which I believe
   I have acted rightly, though I am not absolutely certain, and to ask
   for your advice on it. It was a somewhat complicated one, and I
   repeat that I do not think I could rightly have acted otherwise, but
   if I were the greatest fool in the three kingdoms and had made
   nothing but a mess of it, there is one person I should always turn to
   and trust. Mothers know more of their son's idiocies than other
   people can, and this has been peculiarly true in your case. I have
   always rejoiced at this, and not been ashamed of it: this has always
   been true and always will be. These things are easier written than
   said, but you know it is true, don't you?

   I am inexpressibly anxious that you should give me credit for
   having done my best, and for having constantly had in mind the way in
   which you would be affected by the letter I am now writing. I do hope
   you will be pleased.

   Almost eight years ago, you made a remark--this may show you that
   if we "jeer" at your remarks, we remember them. The remark applied to
   the hypothetical young lady with whom I should fall in love and took
   the form of saying "If she is good, I shan't mind who she is." I
   don't know how many times I have said that over to myself in the last
   two or three days in which I have decided on this letter.

   Do not be frightened; or suppose that anything sensational or final
   has occurred. I am not married, my dear mother, neither am I engaged.
   You are called to the council of chiefs very early in its
   deliberations. If you don't mind I will tell you, briefly, the whole
   story.

   You are, I think, the shrewdest person for seeing things whom I
   ever knew: consequently I imagine that you do not think that I go
   down to Bedford Park every Sunday for the sake of the scenery. I
   should not wonder if you know nearly as much about the matter as I
   can tell in a letter. Suffice it to say however briefly (for neither
   of us care much for gushing: this letter is not on Mrs. Ratcliffe
   lines) that the first half of my time of acquaintance with the Bloggs
   was spent in enjoying a very intimate, but quite breezy and Platonic
   friendship with Frances Blogg, reading, talking and enjoying life
   together, having great sympathies on all subjects; and the second
   half in making the thrilling, but painfully responsible discovery
   that Platonism, on my side, had not the field by any means to itself.
   That is how we stand now. No one knows, except her family and
   yourself.

   My dearest mother, I am sure you are at least not unsympathetic.
   Indeed we love each other more than we shall either of us ever be
   able to say. I have refrained from sentiment in this letter--for I
   don't think you like it much. But love is a very different thing from
   sentiment and you will never laugh at that. I will not say that you
   are sure to like Frances, for all young men say that to their
   mothers, quite naturally, and their mothers never believe them, also,
   quite naturally. Besides, I am so confident, I should like you to
   find her out for yourself. She is, in reality, very much the sort of
   woman you like, what is called, I believe, "a Woman's Woman," very
   humorous, inconsequent and sympathetic and defiled with no offensive
   exuberance of good health.

   I have nothing more to say, except that you and she have occupied
   my mind for the last week to the exclusion of everything else, which
   must account for my abstraction, and that in her letter she sent the
   following message: "Please tell your mother soon. Tell her I am not
   so silly as to expect her to think me good enough, but really I will
   try to be."

   An aspiration which, considered from my point of view, naturally
   provokes a smile.

   Here you give me a cup of cocoa. Thank you.

   Believe me, my dearest mother,

   Always your very affectionate son

   GILBERT.

What exactly Gilbert meant by saying they were "not engaged" it is hard to surmise, in view
of Frances's message to her future mother-in-law. Of his sensations when proposing Gilbert
gives some idea in the Autobiography:

   It was fortunate, however, that our next most important meeting was
   not under the sign of the moon but of the sun. She has often
   affirmed, during our later acquaintance, that if the sun had not been
   shining to her complete satisfaction on that day, the issue might
   have been quite different. It happened in St. James's Park; where
   they keep the ducks and the little bridge, which has been mentioned
   in no less authoritative a work than Mr. Belloc's Essay on Bridges,
   since I find myself quoting that author once more. I think he deals
   in some detail, in his best topographical manner, with various
   historic sites on the Continent; but later relapses into a larger
   manner, somewhat thus: "The time has now come to talk at large about
   Bridges. The longest bridge in the world is the Forth Bridge, and the
   shortest bridge in the world is a plank over a ditch in the village
   of Loudwater. The bridge that frightens you most is the Brooklyn
   Bridge, and the bridge that frightens you least is the bridge in St.
   James's Park." I admit that I crossed that bridge in undeserved
   safety; and perhaps I was affected by my early romantic vision of the
   bridge leading to the princess's tower. But I can assure my friend
   the author that the bridge in St. James's Park can frighten you a
   good deal.*

[* Autobiography, pp. 154-5.]

Now, with Frances promised to him, Gilbert could enjoy everything properly, could execute,
verbally at least, a wild fantasia. Among the first of his friends to be written to was Mildred
Wain, because, as he says in a later letter, he felt towards her deep gratitude "for forming
a topic of conversation on my first visit to a family with which I have since formed a dark
and shameful connection."

   DEAR MILDRED,

   On rising this morning, I carefully washed my boots in hot water
   and blacked my face. Then assuming my coat with graceful ease and
   with the tails in front, I descended to breakfast, where I gaily
   poured the coffee on the sardines and put my hat on the fire to boil.
   These activities will give you some idea of my frame of mind. My
   family, observing me leave the house by way of the chimney, and take
   the fender with me under one arm, thought I must have something on my
   mind. So I had.

   My friend, I am engaged. I am only telling it at present to my real
   friends: but there is no doubt about it. The next question that
   arises is--whom am I engaged to? I have investigated this problem
   with some care, and, as far as I can make out, the best authorities
   point to Frances Blogg. There can I think be no reasonable doubt that
   she is the lady. It is as well to have these minor matters clear in
   one's mind.

   I am very much too happy to write much; but I thought you might
   remember my existence sufficiently to be interested in the incident.

   Waldo has been of so much help to me in this and in everything, and
   I am so much interested in you for his sake and your own, that I am
   encouraged to hope our friendship may subsist. If ever I have done
   anything rude or silly, it was quite inadvertent. I have always
   wished to please you.

To Annie Firmin he wrote:

   I can only think of the day, one of the earliest I can recall of my
   life, when you came in and helped me to build a house with bricks. I
   am building another one now, and it would not have been complete
   without your going over it.

To others he wrote such sentences as he could put together in the whirlwind of his happiness.
For himself he stammered in a verse that grew with the years into his great love poetry.

   God made thee mightily, my love,
   He stretched his hands out of his rest
   And lit the star of east and west
   Brooding o'er darkness like a dove.
   God made thee mightily, my love.

   God made thee patiently, my sweet,
   Out of all stars he chose a star
   He made it red with sunset bar
   And green with greeting for thy feet.
   God made thee mightily, my sweet.

CHAPTER VIII

To Frances

THIS CHAPTER CAN be written only by Gilbert himself. It might seem that he had no words left
for an emotion heightened beyond the love of his friends and the joyous acceptance of existence.
But in these letters he shows the truth of his own theory, that to love each thing separately
strengthens the power of loving, to have tried to love everyone is, as he tells Frances, no
bad preparation for loving her. The emotion of falling in love had both intensified his appreciation
of all things and cast for him a vivid light on past, present and future, so that in the last
of these letters he sketches his life down to the moment when a new life begins.

". . . I am looking over the sea and endeavouring to reckon up the estate I have to offer you.
As far as I can make out my equipment for starting on a journey to fairyland consists of the
following items.

"1st. A Straw Hat. The oldest part of this admirable relic shows traces of pure Norman work.
The vandalism of Cromwell's soldiers has left us little of the original hat-band.

"2nd. A Walking Stick, very knobby and heavy: admirably fitted to break the head of any denizen
of Suffolk who denies that you are the noblest of ladies, but of no other manifest use.

"3rd. A copy of Walt Whitman's poems, once nearly given to Salter, but quite forgotten. It
has his name in it still with an affectionate inscription from his sincere friend Gilbert Chesterton.
I wonder if he will ever have it.

"4th. A number of letters from a young lady, containing everything good and generous and loyal
and holy and wise that isn't in Walt Whitman's poems.

"5th. An unwieldy sort of a pocket knife, the blades mostly having an edge of a more varied
and picturesque outline than is provided by the prosaic cutter. The chief element however is
a thing 'to take stones out of a horse's hoof.' What a beautiful sensation of security it gives
one to reflect that if one should ever have money enough to buy a horse and should happen to
buy one and the horse should happen to have a stone in his hoof--that one is ready; one stands
prepared, with a defiant smile!

"6th. Passing from the last miracle of practical foresight, we come to a box of matches. Every
now and then I strike one of these, because fire is beautiful and burns your fingers. Some
people think this waste of matches: the same people who object to the building of Cathedrals.

"7th. About three pounds in gold and silver, the remains of one of Mr. Unwin's bursts of affection:
those explosions of spontaneous love for myself, which, such is the perfect order and harmony
of his mind, occur at startlingly exact intervals of time.

"8th. A book of Children's Rhymes, in manuscript, called the 'Weather Book' about ¾ finished,
and destined for Mr. Nutt.* I have been working at it fairly steadily, which I think jolly
creditable under the circumstances. One can't put anything interesting in it. They'll understand
those things when they grow up.

[* Greybeards at Play.]

"9th. A tennis racket--nay, start not. It is a part of the new régime, and the only new and
neat-looking thing in the Museum. We'll soon mellow it--like the straw hat. My brother and
I are teaching each other lawn tennis.

"10th. A soul, hitherto idle and omnivorous but now happy enough to be ashamed of itself.

"11th. A body, equally idle and quite equally omnivorous, absorbing tea, coffee, claret, sea-water
and oxygen to its own perfect satisfaction. It is happiest swimming, I think, the sea being
about a convenient size.

"12th. A Heart--mislaid somewhere. And that is about all the property of which an inventory
can be made at present. After all, my tastes are stoically simple. A straw hat, a stick, a
box of matches and some of his own poetry. What more does man require? . . ."

". . . The City of Felixstowe, as seen by the local prophet from the neighbouring mountain-peak,
does not strike the eye as having anything uncanny about it. At least I imagine that it requires
rather careful scrutiny before the eerie curl of a chimney pot, or the elfin wink of a lonely
lamp-post brings home to the startled soul that it is really the City of a Fearful Folk. That
the inhabitants are not human in the ordinary sense is quite clear, yet it has only just begun
to dawn on me after staying a week in the Town of Unreason with its monstrous landscape and
grave, unmeaning customs. Do I seem to be raving? Let me give my experiences.

"I am bound to admit that I do not think I am good at shopping. I generally succeed in getting
rid of money, but other observances, such as bringing away the goods that I've paid for, and
knowing what I've bought, I often pass over as secondary. But to shop in a town of ordinary
tradesmen is one thing: to shop in a town of raving lunatics is another. I set out one morning,
happy and hopeful with the intention of buying (a) a tennis racket (b) some tennis balls (c)
some tennis shoes (d) a ticket for a tennis ground. I went to the shop pointed out by some
villager (probably mad) and went in and said I believed they kept tennis rackets. The young
man smiled and assented. I suggested that he might show me some. The young man looked positively
alarmed. 'Oh,' he said, 'We haven't got any--not got any here.' I asked 'Where?' 'Oh, they're
out you know. All round,' he explained wildly, with a graphic gesture in the direction of the
sea and the sky. 'All out round. We've left them all round at places.' To this day I don't
know what he meant, but I merely asked when they would quit these weird retreats. He said in
an hour: in an hour I called again. Were they in now? 'Well not in--not in, just yet,' he said
with a sort of feverish confidentialness, as if he wasn't quite well. 'Are they still--all
out at places?' I asked with restrained humour. 'Oh no!' he said with a burst of reassuring
pride. 'They are only out there--out behind, you know.' I hope my face expressed my beaming
comprehension of the spot alluded to. Eventually, at a third visit, the rackets were produced.
None of them, I was told by my brother, were of any first-class maker, so that was outside
the question. The choice was between some good, neat first-hand instruments which suited me,
and some seedy-looking second-hand objects with plain deal handles, which would have done at
a pinch. I thought that perhaps it would be better to get a good-class racket in London and
content myself for the present with economising on one of these second-hand monuments of depression.
So I asked the price. '10/6' was the price of the second-hand article. I thought this large
for the tool, and wondered if the first-hand rackets were much dearer. What price the first-hand?
'7/6' said the Creature, cheery as a bird. I did not faint. I am strong.

"I rejected the article which was dearer because it had been hallowed by human possession,
and accepted the cheap, new crude racket. Except the newness there was no difference between
them whatever. I then asked the smiling Maniac for balls. He brought me a selection of large
red globes nearly as big as Dutch cheeses. I said, 'Are these tennis-balls?' He said, 'Oh did
you want tennis-balls?' I said Yes--they often came in handy at tennis. The goblin was however
quite impervious to satire, and I left him endeavouring to draw my attention to his wares in
general, particularly to some zinc baths which he seemed to think should form part of the equipment
of a tennis-player.

"Never before or since have I met a being of that order and degree of creepiness. He was a
nightmare of unmeaning idiocy. But some mention ought to be made of the old man at the entrance
to the tennis ground who opened his mouth in parables on the subject of the fee for playing
there. He seemed to have been wound up to make only one remark, 'It's sixpence.' Under these
circumstances the attempt to discover whether the sixpence covered a day's tennis or a week
or fifty years was rather baffling. At last I put down the sixpence. This seemed to galvanise
him into life. He looked at the clock, which was indicating five past eleven and said, 'It's
sixpence an hour--so you'll be all right till two.' I fled screaming.

"Since then I have examined the town more carefully and feel the presence of something nameless.
There is a claw-curl in the sea-bent trees, an eye-gleam in the dark flints in the wall that
is not of this world.

"When we set up a house, darling (honeysuckle porch, yew clipt hedge, bees, poetry and eight
shillings a week), I think you will have to do the shopping. Particularly at Felixstowe. There
was a great and glorious man who said, 'Give us the luxuries of life and we will dispense with
the necessities.' That I think would be a splendid motto to write (in letters of brown gold)
over the porch of our hypothetical home. There will be a sofa for you, for example, but no
chairs, for I prefer the floor. There will be a select store of chocolate-creams (to make you
do the Carp with) and the rest will be bread and water. We will each retain a suit of evening
dress for great occasions, and at other times clothe ourselves in the skins of wild beasts
(how pretty you would look) which would fit your taste in furs and be economical.

"I have sometimes thought it would be very fine to take an ordinary house, a very poor, commonplace
house in West Kensington, say, and make it symbolic. Not artistic--Heaven--O Heaven forbid.
My blood boils when I think of the affronts put by knock-kneed pictorial epicures on the strong,
honest, ugly, patient shapes of necessary things: the brave old bones of life. There are aesthetic
pottering prigs who can look on a saucepan without one tear of joy or sadness: mongrel decadents
that can see no dignity in the honourable scars of a kettle. So they concentrate all their
house decoration on coloured windows that nobody looks out of, and vases of lilies that everybody
wishes out of the way. No: my idea (which is much cheaper) is to make a house really allegoric:
really explain its own essential meaning. Mystical or ancient sayings should be inscribed on
every object, the more prosaic the object the better; and the more coarsely and rudely the
inscription was traced the better. 'Hast thou sent the Rain upon the Earth?' should be inscribed
on the Umbrella-stand: perhaps on the Umbrella. 'Even the Hairs of your Head are all numbered'
would give a tremendous significance to one's hairbrushes: the words about 'living water' would
reveal the music and sanctity of the sink: while 'our God is a consuming Fire' might be written
over the kitchen-grate, to assist the mystic musings of the cook--Shall we ever try that experiment,
dearest. Perhaps not, for no words would be golden enough for the tools you had to touch: you
would be beauty enough for one house. . . ."

". . . By all means let us have bad things in our dwelling and make them good things. I shall
offer no objection to your having an occasional dragon to dinner, or a penitent Griffin to
sleep in the spare bed. The image of you taking a Sunday school of little Devils is pleasing.
They will look up, first in savage wonder, then in vague respect; they will see the most glorious
and noble lady that ever lived since their prince tempted Eve, with a halo of hair and great
heavenly eyes that seem to make the good at the heart of things almost too terribly simple
and naked for the sons of flesh: and as they gaze, their tails will drop off, and their wings
will sprout: and they will become Angels in six lessons. . . .

"I cannot profess to offer any elaborate explanation of your mother's disquiet but I admit
it does not wholly surprise me. You see I happen to know one factor in the case, and one only,
of which you are wholly ignorant. I know you . . . I know one thing which has made me feel
strange before your mother--I know the value of what I take away. I feel (in a weird moment)
like the Angel of Death.

"You say you want to talk to me about death: my views about death are bright, brisk and entertaining.
When Azrael takes a soul it may be to other and brighter worlds: like those whither you and
I go together. The transformation called Death may be something as beautiful and dazzling as
the transformation called Love. It may make the dead man 'happy,' just as your mother knows
that you are happy. But none the less it is a transformation, and sad sometimes for those left
behind. A mother whose child is dying can hardly believe that in the inscrutable Unknown there
is anyone who can look to it as well as she. And if a mother cannot trust her child easily
to God Almighty, shall I be so mean as to be angry because she cannot trust it easily to me?
I tell you I have stood before your mother and felt like a thief. I know you are not going
to part: neither physically, mentally, morally nor spiritually. But she sees a new element
in your life, wholly from outside--is it not natural, given her temperament, that you should
find her perturbed? Oh, dearest, dearest Frances, let us always be very gentle to older people.
Indeed, darling, it is not they who are the tyrants, but we. They may interrupt our building
in the scaffolding stages: we turn their house upside down when it is their final home and
rest. Your mother would certainly have worried if you had been engaged to the Archangel Michael
(who, indeed, is bearing his disappointment very well): how much more when you are engaged
to an aimless, tactless, reckless, unbrushed, strange-hatted, opinionated scarecrow who has
suddenly walked into the vacant place. I could have prophesied her unrest: wait and she will
calm down all right, dear. God comfort her: I dare not. . . ."

". . . Gilbert Keith Chesterton was born of comfortable but honest parents on the top of Campden
Hill, Kensington. He was christened at St. George's Church which stands just under that more
imposing building, the Waterworks Tower. This place was chosen, apparently, in order that the
whole available water supply might be used in the intrepid attempt to make him a member of
Christ, a child of God and an inheritor of the Kingdom of Heaven.

"Of the early years of this remarkable man few traces remain. One of his earliest recorded
observations was the simple exclamation, full of heart-felt delight, 'Look at Baby. Funny Baby.'
Here we see the first hint of that ineffable conversational modesty, that shy social self-effacement,
which has ever hidden his light under a bushel. His mother also recounts with apparent amusement
an incident connected with his imperious demand for his father's top-hat. 'Give me that hat,
please.' 'No, dear, you mustn't have that.' 'Give me that hat.' 'No, dear--' 'If you don't
give it me, I'll say 'At.' An exquisite selection in the matter of hats has indeed always been
one of the great man's hobbies.

"When he had drawn pictures on all the blinds and tablecloths and towels and walls and windowpanes
it was felt that he required a larger sphere. Consequently he was sent to Mr. Bewsher who gave
him desks and copy-books and Latin grammars and atlases to draw pictures on. He was far too
innately conscientious not to use these materials to draw on. To other uses, asserted by some
to belong to these objects, he paid little heed. The only really curious thing about his school
life was that he had a weird and quite involuntary habit of getting French prizes. They were
the only ones he ever got and he never tried to get them. But though the thing was quite mysterious
to him, and though he made every effort to avoid it, it went on, being evidently a part of
some occult natural law.

"For the first half of his time at school he was very solitary and futile. He never regretted
the time, for it gave him two things, complete mental self-sufficiency and a comprehension
of the psychology of outcasts.

"But one day, as he was roaming about a great naked building land which he haunted in play
hours, rather like an outlaw in the woods, he met a curious agile youth with hair brushed up
off his head. Seeing each other, they promptly hit each other simultaneously and had a fight.
Next day they met again and fought again. These Homeric conflicts went on for many days, till
one morning in the crisis of some insane grapple, the subject of this biography quoted, like
a war-chant, something out of Macaulay's Lays. The other started and relaxed his hold. They
gazed at each other. Then the foe quoted the following line. In this land of savages they knew
each other. For the next two hours they talked books. They have talked books ever since. The
boy was Edmund Clerihew Bentley. The incident just narrated is the true and real account of
the first and deepest of our hero's male connections. But another was to ensue, probably equally
profound and far more pregnant with awful and dazzling consequences. Bentley always had a habit
of trying to do things well: twelve years of the other's friendship has not cured him of this.
Being seized with a peculiar desire to learn conjuring, he had made the acquaintance of an
eerie and supernatural young man, who instructed him in the Black Art: a gaunt Mephistophelian
sort of individual, who our subject half thought was a changeling. Our subject has not quite
got over the idea yet, though for practical social purposes he calls him Lucian Oldershaw.
Our subject met Lucian Oldershaw. 'That night,' as Shakespeare says, 'there was a star.'

"These three persons soon became known through the length and breadth of St. Paul's School
as the founders of a singular brotherhood. It was called the J.D.C. No one, we believe, could
ever have had better friends than did the hero of this narrative. We wish that we could bring
before the reader the personality of all the Knights of that eccentric round table. Most of
them are known already to the reader. Even the subject himself is possibly known to the reader.
Bertram, who seemed somehow to have been painted by Vandyck, a sombre and stately young man,
a blend of Cavalier and Puritan, with the physique of a military father and the views of an
ethical mother and a soul of his own which for sheer simplicity is something staggering. Vernède
with an Oriental and inscrutable placidity varied every now and then with dazzling agility
and Meredithian humour. Waldo d'Avigdor who masks with complete fashionable triviality a Hebraic
immutability of passion tried in a more ironical and bitter service than his Father Jacob.
Lawrence and Maurice Solomon, who show another side of the same people, the love of home, the
love of children, the meek and malicious humour, the tranquil service of a law. Salter who
shows how beautiful and ridiculous a combination can be made of the most elaborate mental cultivation
and artistic sensibility and omniscience with a receptiveness and a humility extraordinary
in any man. These were his friends. May he be forgiven for speaking of them at length and with
pride? Some day we hope the reader may know them all. He knew these people; he knew their friends.
He heard Mildred Wain say 'Blogg' and he thought it was a funny name. Had he been told that
he would ever pronounce it with the accents of tears and passion he would have said, in his
pride, that the name was not suitable for that purpose. But there are oukh eph' emin [Greek
characters in original]. . . .

"He went for a time to an Art School. There he met a great many curious people. Many of the
men were horrible blackguards: he was not exactly that: so they naturally found each other
interesting. He went through some rather appalling discoveries about human life and the final
discovery was that there is no Devil--no, not even such a thing as a bad man.

"One pleasant Saturday afternoon Lucian said to him, 'I am going to take you to see the Bloggs.'
'The what?' said the unhappy man. 'The Bloggs,' said the other, darkly. Naturally assuming
that it was the name of a public-house he reluctantly followed his friend. He came to a small
front-garden; if it was a public-house it was not a businesslike one. They raised the latch--they
rang the bell (if the bell was not in the close time just then). No flower in the pots winked.
No brick grinned. No sign in Heaven or earth warned him. The birds sang on in the trees. He
went in.

"The first time he spent an evening at the Bloggs there was no one there. That is to say there
was a worn but fiery little lady in a grey dress who didn't approve of 'catastrophic solutions
of social problems.' That, he understood, was Mrs. Blogg. There was a long, blonde, smiling
young person who seemed to think him quite off his head and who was addressed as Ethel. There
were two people whose meaning and status he couldn't imagine, one of whom had a big nose and
the other hadn't. . . . Lastly, there was a Juno-like creature in a tremendous hat who eyed
him all the time half wildly, like a shying horse, because he said he was quite happy. . . .

"But the second time he went there he was plumped down on a sofa beside a being of whom he
had a vague impression that brown hair grew at intervals all down her like a caterpillar. Once
in the course of conversation she looked straight at him and he said to himself as plainly
as if he had read it in a book: 'If I had anything to do with this girl I should go on my knees
to her: if I spoke with her she would never deceive me: if I depended on her she would never
deny me: if I loved her she would never play with me: if I trusted her she would never go back
on me: if I remembered her she would never forget me. I may never see her again. Goodbye.'
It was all said in a flash: but it was all said. . . .

"Two years, as they say in the playbills, is supposed to elapse. And here is the subject of
this memoir sitting on a balcony above the sea. The time, evening. He is thinking of the whole
bewildering record of which the foregoing is a brief outline: he sees how far he has gone wrong
and how idle and wasteful and wicked he has often been: how miserably unfitted he is for what
he is called upon to be. Let him now declare it and hereafter for ever hold his peace.

"But there are four lamps of thanksgiving always before him. The first is for his creation
out of the same earth with such a woman as you. The second is that he has not, with all his
faults, 'gone after strange women.' You cannot think how a man's self-restraint is rewarded
in this. The third is that he has tried to love everything alive: a dim preparation for loving
you. And the fourth is--but no words can express that. Here ends my previous existence. Take
it: it led me to you."

CHAPTER IX

A Long Engagement

GILBERT SYMPATHIZED WITH his future mother-in-law's anxiety at Frances's engagement to "a self-opinionated
scarecrow," but I doubt if it at all quickly occurred to him that the basis of that anxiety
was the fact that he was earning only twenty-five shillings a week! Frances herself, Lucian
Oldershaw, and the rest of his friends believed he was a genius with a great future and this
belief they tried to communicate to Frances's family. But even if they succeeded, faith in
the future did not pay dividends in a present income on which to set up house. A widow, considering
her daughter's future, might well feel a little anxiety. But one can see wheels within wheels
of family conclaves and matters to perplex the simple which drew another letter from Gilbert
to Frances:

   . . . It is a mystic and refreshing thought that I shall never
   understand Bloggs.

   That is the truth of it . . . that this remarkable family
   atmosphere . . . this temperament with its changing moods and its
   everlasting will, its divine trust in one's soul and its tremulous
   speculations as to one's "future," its sensitiveness like a tempered
   sword, vibrating but never broken: its patience that can wait for
   Eternity and its impatience that cannot wait for tea: its power of
   bearing huge calamities, and its queer little moods that even those
   calamities can never overshadow or wipe out: its brusqueness that
   always pleases and its over-tactfulness that sometimes wounds: its
   terrific intensity of feeling, that sometimes paralyses the outsider
   with conversational responsibility: its untranslatable humour of
   courage and poverty and its unfathomed epics of past tragedy and
   triumph--all this glorious confusion of family traits, which, in no
   exaggerative sense, make the Gentiles come to your light and the folk
   of the nations to the brightness of your house--is a thing so utterly
   outside my own temperament that I was formed by nature to admire and
   not understand it. God made me very simply--as he made a tree or a
   pig or an oyster: to perform certain functions. The best thing he
   gave me was a perfect and unshakable trust in those I love. . . .

Gilbert's sympathy with his future mother-in-law may have been put to some slight strain by
an incident related by Lucian Oldershaw. Mrs. Blogg begged him to talk to Gilbert about his
personal appearance--clothes and such matters--and to entreat him to make an effort to improve
it. One can imagine how much he must have disliked the commission! Anyhow, he decided it would
be better to do it away from home and he suggested to Gilbert a trip to the seaside. Arrived
there he broached the subject. Gilbert, he says, was not the least angry, but answered quite
seriously that Frances loved him as he was and that it would be absurd for him to try to alter.
It was only out of a later and deeper experience of women that he was able to write "A man's
friends like him but they leave him as he is. A man's wife loves him and is always trying to
change him."

A good many things happened in the course of this long engagement. Frances and Gilbert were
both young and long engagements were normal at that period, when the idea of a wife continuing
to earn after marriage was unheard of. There were obvious disadvantages in the long delay before
marriage but also certain advantages. The two got to know each other with a close intimacy:
they were comrades as well as lovers and carried both these relationships into married life.
For the biographer the advantage has been immense, since every separation between the pair
meant a batch of letters. The discerning will have noted that there are in these letters considerable
excisions: parts Frances would not show even to the biographer. . But they are the richest
quarry from which to dig for the most important period of any man's life; the period richest
in mental development and the shaping of character. It is, too, the only period of his adult
life when Gilbert wrote letters at all, unless they were absolutely unavoidable.

Even in a small family two members will tend to draw together more closely than the rest, and
this was so with Frances and her sister Gertrude. They adored one another and Frances offered
her to Gilbert as a sister, with especially confident pride. He had never had a sister since
babyhood and he enjoyed it. The happiness of the engagement was terribly broken into by the
sudden death of Gertrude in a street accident. Frances was absolutely shattered. The next group
of letters belongs to the months after Gertrude's death, when Gilbert was still trying to be
a publisher, but, urged on by Frances, beginning also to be a writer. During part of this time
she had gone abroad for rest and recovery after the shock. Gilbert pictures her reading his
letters "under the shadow of an alien cathedral."

None of these letters are dated but most of them have kept their postmarks.

   11, Paternoster Buildings
   (postmarked July 8, 1899)

   . . . I am black but comely at this moment: because the cyclostyle
   has blacked me. Fear not. I shall wash myself. But I think it my duty
   to render an accurate account of my physical appearance every time I
   write: and shall be glad of any advice and assistance. . . . I have
   been reading Lewis Carroll's remains, mostly Logic, and have much
   pleasure in enlivening you with the following hilarious query: "Can a
   Hypothetical, whose protasis is false, be legitimate? Are two
   Hypotheticals of the forms, If A, then B, and If A then not B
   compatible?" I should think a Hypothetical could be, if it tried
   hard. . . .

   To return to the Cyclostyle. I like the Cyclostyle ink; it is so
   inky. I do not think there is anyone who takes quite such a fierce
   pleasure in things being themselves as I do. The startling wetness of
   water excites and intoxicates me: the fieriness of fire, the
   steeliness of steel, the unutterable muddiness of mud. It is just the
   same with people. When we call a man "manly" or a woman "womanly" we
   touch the deepest philosophy.

   I will not ask you to forgive this rambling levity. I, for one have
   sworn, I do not hesitate to say it, by the sword of God that has
   struck us, and before the beautiful face of the dead, that the first
   joke that occurred to me I would make, the first nonsense poem I
   thought of I would write, that I would begin again at once with a
   heavy heart at times, as to other duties, to the duty of being
   perfectly silly, perfectly extravagant, perfectly trivial, and as far
   as possible, amusing. I have sworn that Gertrude should not feel,
   wherever she is, that the comedy has gone out of our theatre. This, I
   am well aware, will be misunderstood. But I have long grasped that
   whatever we do we are misunderstood--small blame to other people; for,
   we know ourselves, our best motives are things we could neither
   explain nor defend. And I would rather hurt those who can shout than
   her who is silent.

   You might tell me what you feel about this: but I am myself
   absolutely convinced that gaiety that is the bubble of love, does not
   annoy me: the old round of stories, laughter, family ceremonies,
   seems to me far less really inappropriate than a single moment of
   forced silence or unmanly shame. . . .

I have always imagined Frances did not know of her mother's efforts to tidy Gilbert, but very
early in their engagement she began her own abortive attempts to make him brush his hair, tie
his tie straight and avoid made-up ones, attend to the buttons on his coat, and all the rest.
It would seem that for a time at any rate he made some efforts, but evidently simply regarded
the whole thing as one huge joke.

   11 Warwick Gardens
   (Postmarked July 9th, 1899)

   . . . I am clean. I am wearing a frockcoat, which from a
   superficial survey seems to have no end of buttons. It must be
   admitted that I am wearing a bow-tie: but on careful research I find
   that these were constantly worn by Vikings. A distinct allusion to
   them is made in that fine fragment, the Tryggvhessa Saga, where the
   poet says, in the short alliterative lines of Early Norse poetry:

   Frockcoat Folding then
   Hakon Hardrada
   Bow-tie Buckled
   Waited for war

(Brit. Mus. Mss. CCCLXIX lines 99981-99985)

   I resume. My appearance, as I have suggested, is singularly
   exemplary. My boots are placed, after the fastidious London fashion,
   on the feet: the laces are done up, the watch is going, the hair is
   brushed, the sleeve-links are inserted, for of such is the Kingdom of
   Heaven. As for my straw hat, I put it on eighteen times
   consecutively, taking a run and a jump to each try, till at last I
   hit the right angle. I have not taken it off for three days and
   nights lest I should disturb that exquisite pose. Ladies, princes,
   queens, ecclesiastical processions go by in vain: I do not remove it.
   That angle of the hat is something to mount guard over. As Swinburne
   says--"Not twice on earth do the gods do this."

   It is at present what is, I believe, called a lovely summer's
   night. To say that it is hot would be as feeble a platitude as the
   same remark would be in the small talk of Satan and Beelzebub.

   If there were such a thing as blue-hot iron, it would describe
   the sky tonight. I cannot help dreaming of some wild fairy-tale in
   which the whole round cosmos should be a boiling pot, with the flames
   of Purgatory under it, and that soon I shall have the satisfaction of
   seeing such a thing as boiled mountains, boiled cities, and a boiled
   moon and stars. A tremendous picture. Yet I am perfectly happy as
   usual. After all, why should we object to be boiled? Potatoes, for
   example, are better boiled than raw--why should we fear to be boiled
   into new shapes in the cauldron? These things are an allegory.

   . . . I am so glad to hear you say . . . that, in your own words "it
   is good for us to be here"--where you are at present. The same remark,
   if I remember right, was made on the mountain of the Transfiguration.
   It has always been one of my unclerical sermons to myself, that that
   remark which Peter made on seeing the vision of a single hour, ought
   to be made by us all, in contemplating every panoramic change in the
   long Vision we call life--other things superficially, but this always
   in our depths. "It is good for us to be here--it is good for us to be
   here," repeating itself eternally. And if, after many joys and
   festivals and frivolities, it should be our fate to have to look on
   while one of us is, in a most awful sense of the words, "transfigured
   before our eyes": shining with the whiteness of death--at least, I
   think, we cannot easily fancy ourselves wishing not to be at our
   post. Not I, certainly. It was good for me to be there.

*   *   *   *

   11 Warwick Gardens
   (postmarked July 11, 1899.)

   . . . The novel, after which you so kindly enquire, is proceeding
   headlong. It received another indirect stimulus today, when Mr.
   Garnett insisted on taking me out to lunch, gave me a gorgeous repast
   at a restaurant, succeeded in plucking the secret of my private
   employment from my bosom, and made me promise to send him some
   chapters of it. I certainly cannot complain of not being
   sympathetically treated by the literary men I know. I wonder where
   the jealous, spiteful, depreciating man of letters we read of in
   books has got to. It's about time he turned up, I think. Excuse me
   for talking about these trivialities. . . .

   I have made a discovery: or I should say seen a vision. I saw it
   between two cups of black coffee in a Gallic restaurant in Soho: but
   I could not express it if I tried.

   But this was one thing that it said--that all good things are one
   thing. There is no conflict between the gravestone of Gertrude and a
   comic-opera tune played by Mildred Wain. But there is everlasting
   conflict between the gravestone of Gertrude and the obscene pomposity
   of the hired mute: and there is everlasting conflict between the
   comic-opera tune and any mean or vulgar words to which it may be set.
   These, which man hath joined together, God shall most surely sunder.
   That is what I am feeling . . . now every hour of the day. All good
   things are one thing. Sunsets, schools of philosophy, babies,
   constellations, cathedrals, operas, mountains, horses, poems--all
   these are merely disguises. One thing is always walking among us in
   fancy-dress, in the grey cloak of a church or the green cloak of a
   meadow. He is always behind, His form makes the folds fall so
   superbly. And that is what the savage old Hebrews, alone among the
   nations, guessed, and why their rude tribal god has been erected on
   the ruins of all polytheistic civilisations. For the Greeks and
   Norsemen and Romans saw the superficial wars of nature and made the
   sun one god, the sea another, the wind a third. They were not
   thrilled, as some rude Israelite was, one night in the wastes, alone,
   by the sudden blazing idea of all being the same God: an idea worthy
   of a detective story.

   11, Paternoster Buildings
   (postmarked July 14, 1899.)

   . . . costume slightly improved. The truth is that a mystical and
   fantastic development has taken place. My clothes have rebelled
   against me. Weary of scorn and neglect, they have all suddenly come
   to life and they dress me by force every morning. My frockcoat leaps
   upon me like a lion and hangs on, dragging me down. As I struggle my
   boots trip me up--and the laces climb up my feet (never missing a
   hole) like snakes or creepers. At the same moment the celebrated grey
   tie springs at my throat like a wild cat.

   I am told that the general effects produced by this remarkable
   psychical development are superb. Really the clothes must know
   best. Still it is awkward when a mackintosh pursues one down the
   street. . . .

   . . . There is nothing in God's earth that really expresses the
   bottom of the nature of a man in love except Burns' songs. To the man
   not in love they must seem inexplicably simple. When he says, "My
   love is like the melody that's sweetly played in tune," it seems
   almost a crude way of referring to music. But a man in love with a
   woman feels a nerve move suddenly that Dante groped for and
   Shakespeare hardly touched. What made me think of Burns, however, was
   that one of his simple and sudden things, hitting the right nail so
   that it rings, occurs in the song of "O a' the airts the wind can
   blaw," where he merely says that there is nothing beautiful anywhere
   but it makes him think of the woman. That is not really a mere
   aesthetic fancy, a chain of sentimental association--it is an actual
   instinctive elemental movement of the mind, performed automatically
   and instantly. . . .

   Felixstowe (undated)

   . . . I have as you see, arrived here. I have done other daring
   things, such as having my hair shampooed, as you commanded, and also
   cut. The effect of this is so singularly horrible that I have found
   further existence in London impossible. Public opinion is too strong
   for me. . . . There are many other reasons I could give for being
   pleased to come: such as that I have some time for writing the novel;
   that I can make up stories I don't intend to write . . . that there
   are phosphorescent colours on the sea and a box of cigarettes on the
   mantelpiece.

   Some fragments of what I felt [about Gertrude's death] have
   struggled out in the form of some verses which I am writing out for
   you. But for real strength (I don't like the word "comfort") for real
   peace, no human words are much good except perhaps some of the
   unfathomable, unintelligible, unconquerable epigrams of the Bible. I
   remember when Bentley had a burning boyish admiration for Professor
   Huxley, and when that scientist died some foolish friend asked him
   quite flippantly in a letter what he felt about it. Bentley replied
   with the chapter and verse reference to one of the Psalms, alone on a
   postcard. The text was, "Precious in the sight of the Lord is the
   death of one of his saints." The friend, I remember, thought it "a
   curious remark about Huxley." It strikes me as a miraculous remark
   about anybody. It is one of those magic sayings where every word hits
   a chain of association, God knows how.

   "Precious"--we could not say that Gertrude's death is happy or
   providential or sweet or even perhaps good. But it is something.
   "Beautiful" is a good word--but "precious" is the only right word.

   It is this passionate sense of the value of things: of the
   richness of the cosmic treasure: the world where every star is a
   diamond, every leaf an emerald, every drop of blood a ruby, it is
   this sense of preciousness that is really awakened by the death of
   His saints. Somehow we feel that even their death is a thing of
   incalculable value and mysterious sweetness: it is awful, tragic,
   desolating, desperately hard to bear--but still "precious." . . .
   Forgive the verbosity of one whose trade it is to express the
   inexpressible.

The verses he speaks of in this letter, Frances treasured greatly. She showed them to me, in
a book which opens with a very touching prayer in her own writing. In a later chapter I quote
the lines in which Gilbert writes of his own tone-deafness, and of how he saw what music meant
as he watched his wife's face. Something of the same effect is produced on me by these verses.
Gilbert was not of course tone-deaf to this tragedy, yet it was chiefly in its effect on Frances
that it affected him.

   The sudden sorrow smote my love
   That often falls twixt kiss and kiss
   And looking forth awhile she said
   Can no man tell me where she is.

And again

   Stricken they sat: and through them moved
   My own dear lady, pale and sweet.

   This soul whose clearness makes afraid
   Our souls: this wholly guiltless one--
   No cobweb doubts--no passion smoke
   Have veiled this mirror from Thy sun.

In letters to Frances he could enter so deeply into her grief as to make it his own. But when
he wrote verse and spoke as it were to himself or to God, the reflected emotion was not enough.
These verses could never rank with his real poetry.

It was not possible in fact for a man so happily in love to dwell lastingly on any sorrow.
And I cannot avoid the feeling that, quite apart from any theory, cheerfulness was constantly
"breaking in." For Gilbert was a very happy man. Across the top of one of his letters is written:
"You can always tell the real love from the slight by the fact that the latter weakens at the
moment of success; the former is quadrupled."

The next of his letters is a mingling of the comic and the fantastic, very special to G.K.C.

   11, Paternoster Buildings
   (postmarked Sept. 29, 1899.)

   . . . I fear, as you say, that my letters do not contain many
   practical details about myself: the letters are not very long to
   begin with, as I think it better to write something every day
   than a long letter when I have leisure: and when I have a little
   time to think in, I always think of the Kosmos first and the Ego
   afterwards. I admit, however, that you are not engaged to the
   Kosmos: dear me! what a time the Kosmos would have! All its
   Comets would have their hair brushed every morning. The Whirlwind
   would be adjured not to walk about when it was talking. The
   Oceans would be warmed with hot-water pipes. Not even the lowest
   forms of life would escape the crusade of tidiness: you would
   walk round and round the jellyfish, looking for a place to put in
   shirt-links.

   Under these circumstances, then, I cannot but regard it as
   fortunate that you are only engaged to your obedient Microcosm: a
   biped inheriting some of the traits of his mother, the Kosmos, its
   untidiness, its largeness, its irritating imperfection and its
   profound and hearty intention to go on existing as long as it
   possibly can.

   I can understand what you mean about wanting details about me, for
   I want just the same about you. You need only tell me "I went down
   the street to a pillar-box," I shall know that you did it in a
   manner, blindingly, staggeringly, crazily beautiful. It is quite
   true, as you say, that I am a person wearing certain clothes with a
   certain kind of hair. I cannot get rid of the impression that there
   is something scorchingly sarcastic about the underlining in this
   passage. . . .

   . . . as to what I do every day: it depends on which way you want
   it narrated: what we all say it is, or what it really is.

   What we all say happens every day is this: I wake up: dress myself,
   eat bacon and bread and coffee for breakfast: walk up to High St.
   Station, take a fourpenny ticket for Blackfriars, read the Chronicle
   in the train, arrive at 11, Paternoster Buildings: read a MS called
   "The Lepers" (light comedy reading) and another called "The
   Preparation of Ryerson Embury"--you know the style--till 2 o'clock.
   Go out to lunch, have--(but here perhaps it would be safer to become
   vague), come back, work till six, take my hat and walking-stick and
   come home: have dinner at home, write the Novel till 11, then write
   to you and go to bed. That is what, we in our dreamy, deluded way,
   really imagine is the thing that happens. What really happens (but
   hist! are we observed?) is as follows.

   Out of the starless night of the Uncreated, that was before the
   stars, a soul begins to grope back to light. It gropes its way
   through strange, half-lighted chambers of Dreams, where in a brown
   and gold twilight, it sees many things that are dimly significant,
   true stories twisted into new and amazing shapes, human beings whom
   it knew long ago, sitting at the windows by dark sunsets, or talking
   in dim meadows. But the awful invading Light grows stronger in the
   dreams, till the soul in one last struggle, plunges into a body, as
   into a house and wakes up within it. Then he rises and finds himself
   in a wonderful vast world of white light and clear, frankly coloured
   shapes, an inheritor of a million stars. On enquiry he is informed
   that his name is Gilbert Keith Chesterton. This amuses him.

   He goes through a number of extraordinary and fantastic rituals;
   which the pompous elfland he has entered demands. The first is that
   he shall get inside a house of clothing, a tower of wool and flax;
   that he shall put on this foolish armour solemnly, one piece after
   another and each in its right place. The things called sleevelinks he
   attends to minutely. His hair he beats angrily with a bristly tool.
   For this is the Law. Downstairs a more monstrous ceremony attends him.

   He has to put things inside himself. He does so, being naturally
   polite. Nor can it be denied that a weird satisfaction follows. He
   takes a sword in his hand (for what may not befall him in so strange
   a country!) and goes forth: he finds a hole in the wall, a little
   cave wherein sits One who can give him the charm that rules the horse
   of water and fire. He finds an opening and descends into the bowels
   of the earth. Down, among the roots of the Eternal hills, he finds a
   sunless temple wherein he prays. And in the centre of it he finds a
   lighted temple in which he enters. Then there are noises as of an
   earthquake and smoke and fire in the darkness: and when he opens the
   door again he is in another temple, out of which he climbs into
   another world, leagues and leagues away. And when he asks the meaning
   of the vision, they talk gibberish and say, "It is a train."

   So the day goes, full of eerie publishers and elfin clerks, till he
   returns and again puts things inside him, and then sits down and
   makes men in his own head and writes down all that they said and did.
   And last of all comes the real life itself. For half-an-hour he
   writes words upon a scrap of paper, words that are not picked and
   chosen like those that he has used to parry the strange talk of the
   folk all day, but words in which the soul's blood pours out, like the
   body's blood from a wound. He writes secretly this mad diary, all his
   passion and longing, all his queer religion, his dark and dreadful
   gratitude to God, his idle allegories, the tales that tell themselves
   in his head; the joy that comes on him sometimes (he cannot help it!)
   at the sacred intoxication of existence: the million faults of
   idleness and recklessness and the one virtue of the unconquered
   adoration of goodness, that dark virtue that every man has, and hides
   deeper than all his vices--he writes all this down as he is writing
   it now. And he knows that if he sticks it down and puts a stamp on it
   and drops it into the mouth of a little red goblin at the corner of
   the street--he knows that all this wild soliloquy will be poured into
   the soul of one wise and beautiful lady sitting far away beyond seas
   and rivers and cities, under the shadow of an alien Cathedral. . . .
   This is not all so irrelevant as you may think. It was this line of
   feeling that taught me, an utter Rationalist as far as dogma goes,
   the lesson of the entire Spirituality of things--an opinion that
   nothing has ever shattered since. I can't express myself on the
   point, nobody can. But it is only the spirituality of things that
   we are sure of. That the eyes in your face are eyes I do not know:
   they may have other names and uses. I know that they are good or
   beautiful, or rather spiritual. I do not know on what principle the
   Universe is run, I know or feel that it is good or spiritual. I do
   not know what Gertrude's death was--I know that it was beautiful, for
   I saw it. We do not feel that it is so beautiful now--why? Because we
   do not see it now. What we see now is her absence: but her Death is
   not her absence, but her Presence somewhere else. That is what we
   knew was beautiful, as long as we could see it. Do not be
   frightened, dearest, by the slow inevitable laws of human nature, we
   shall climb back into the mountain of vision: we shall be able to use
   the word, with the accent of Whitman. "Disembodied, triumphant, dead."

In the Notebook he was writing:

   There is a heart within a distant town
   Who loves me more than treasure or renown
   Think you it strange and wear it as a crown.

   Is not the marvel here; that since the kiss
   And dizzy glories of that blinding bliss
   One grief has ever touched me after this.

We see Gilbert in the next two letters more concerned about a grand dinner of the J.D.C. than
about his future fame and fortune. In the second he mentions almost casually that he is leaving
Fisher Unwin. From now on he was to live by his pen.

   11 Warwick Gardens, W.
   Tuesday Night. 3rd Oct. 1899.

   . . . Nothing very astonishing has happened yet, though many
   astonishing things will happen soon. The Final perfection of Humanity
   I expect shortly. The Speaker for this week--the first of the New
   Speaker, is coming out soon, and may contain something of mine though
   I cannot be quite sure. A rush of the Boers on Natal, strategically
   quite possibly successful, is anticipated by politicians. The rising
   of the sun tomorrow morning is predicted by astronomers. My father
   again is engaged in the crucial correspondence with Fisher Unwin, at
   least it has begun by T.F.U. stating his proposed terms--a rise of
   5/--from October, another rise possible but undefined in January, 10
   per cent royalty for the Paris book and expenses for a fortnight in
   Paris. These, as I got my father to heartily agree, are vitiated to
   the bone as terms by the absence of any assurance that I shall not
   have to write "Paris," for which I am really paid nothing, outside
   the hours of work for which I am paid 25/--. In short, the net result
   would be that instead of gaining more liberty to rise in the literary
   world, I should be selling the small liberty of rising that I have
   now for five more shillings. This my father is declining and asking
   for a better settlement. The diplomacy is worrying, yet I enjoy it: I
   feel like Mr. Chamberlain on the eve of war. I would stop with T.F.U.
   for £100 a year--but not for less. Which means, I think, that I shall
   not stop at all.

   But all these revolutions, literary, financial and political fade
   into insignificance compared with the one really tremendous event of
   this week. It will take place on Saturday next. The sun will stand
   still upon Leicester Square and the Moon on the Valley of Wardour St.
   For then will assemble the Grand Commemorative Meeting of the Junior
   Debating Club. The Secretary, Mr. L.R.F. Oldershaw, will select a
   restaurant, make arrangements and issue the proclamations, or, to use
   the venerable old Club phrase "the writs." When this gorgeous
   function is over, you must expect a colossal letter. Everyone of the
   old Brotherhood, scattered over many cities and callings, has hailed
   the invitation, and is coming, with the exception of Bentley, who
   will send a sensational telegram from Paris. The fun is expected to
   be fast and furious, the undercurrent of emotion (twelve years old)
   is not likely to be much disguised. As I say, I will write you a
   sumptuous description of it; it is somewhat your due, for the thing
   is, and always will be, one of the main strands of my life. . . .

   None can say what will occur. It is one of those occasions when
   Englishmen are not much like the pictures of them in Continental
   satires . . . there is more in this old affair of ours than possibly
   meets the eye. It is a thing that has left its roots deep in the
   hearts of twelve strangely different men. . . . And now that seven of
   us have found the New Life that can only be found in Woman, it would
   be mean indeed not to turn back and thank the old. . . .

   11, Warwick Gardens, W.

   . . . This is the colossal letter. I trust you will excuse me if
   the paper is conceived on a similar scale of Babylonian immensity. I
   cannot make out exactly whether I did or did not post a letter I
   wrote to you on Saturday. If I did not, I apologise for missing the
   day. If I did, you will know by this time one or two facts that may
   interest you, the chief of which is that I am certainly leaving
   Fisher Unwin, with much mutual courtesy and goodwill.

   This fact may interest you, I repeat: at this moment I am not sure
   whether it interests me. For my head, to say nothing of another
   organ, is filled with the thundering cheers and songs of the dinner
   on Saturday night. It was, I may say without hesitation, a breathless
   success. Cholmeley, who must be experienced being both a
   schoolmaster, a diner out and a clever man, told me he had never in
   his life heard eleven better speeches. I quite agree with him, merely
   adding his own. Everyone was amusing and what is much better,
   singularly characteristic. Will you forgive me, dearest, if I reel
   off to the only soul that can be trusted to enjoy my enjoyment, a
   kind of report of the meeting? It will revivify my own memories. And
   one thing at least that I said in my speech I thoroughly believed
   in--"if there is any prayer I should be inclined to make it is that I
   should forget nothing in my life."

   The proceedings opened with dinner. The illustrated menus were wildly
   appreciated: every person got all the rest to sign on the menu and
   then took it away as a memento. Then the telegrams from Kruger,
   Chamberlain, Dreyfus and George Meredith were read. Then I proposed
   the toast of the Queen. I merely said that nothing could ever be
   alleged against the Queen, except the fact that she is not a member
   of the J.D.C. and that I thought it spoke well for the chivalry of
   Englishmen that with this fact she had never been publicly taunted. I
   said I knew that the virtues of Queen Victoria had become somewhat
   platitudinous, but I thought it was a fortunate country in which the
   virtues of its powerful ones are platitudes. The toast was then
   drunk. . . .

   After a pause and a little conversation, I called upon Lawrence
   Solomon to propose the toast of "The School." He was very amusing
   indeed. Most of his speech would not be very comprehensible to an
   outsider for it largely consisted of an ingenious dove-tailing of the
   sentences in the Latin and Greek Arnold. I shall never forget the
   lucid and precise enunciation with which he delivered the idiotic
   sentences in those works, more especially where he said, "such a
   course would be more agreeable to Mr. Cholmeley and I would rather
   gratify such a man as he than see the King of the Persians."

   Cholmeley, amid roars of welcome, rose to respond. I think I must
   have told you in a former letter that Cholmeley is a former
   classmaster of ours, a former house-master of Bentley's, and one of
   the nicest men at St. Paul's. We invited him as the only visitor. He
   said a great deal that was very amusing, mostly a commentary on
   Solomon's remarks about the Latin Arnold. One remark he made was that
   he possessed one particular Latin Arnold, formerly the property of
   the President, which he had withdrawn from him "with every expression
   of contumely"--because it was drawn all over with devils. He made
   some very sound remarks about the Club as an answer to the common
   charge against St. Paul's School that it was aridly scholastic,
   without spontaneous growth in culture or sentiment.

   Then Fordham proposed "The Ladies." He was killing. Fordham is a
   personality whom I think you do not know. He is one of the most
   profoundly humourous men I ever knew, but his humour is more thickly
   coated on him, so to speak, than Bentley or Oldershaw, i.e., it is
   much more difficult to make him serious. He is one of the most
   fascinating "typical Englishmen" I ever knew: strong, generous,
   flippant on principle, rowdy by physical inspiration, successful,
   popular, married--a man to discharge all the normal functions of life
   well. But his most entertaining gift which he displayed truly
   sumptuously on this occasion is a wonderful gift of burlesque and
   stereotyped rhetoric. With melodramatic gestures he drew attention to
   the torrents of the President's blood pouring "from the wound of the
   tiny god." Amid sympathetic demonstration he protested against the
   pathos of the toast, "the conquered on the field of battle toasting
   the conquerors." As the only married member of the Club he ventured
   to give us some advice on (A) Food, (B) Education, (C) Intercourse.
   He sat down in a pure whirlwind of folly, without saying a word about
   the feelings that were in all hearts, including his own, just then.
   But I was delighted to find that marriage had not taken away an inch
   of his incurable silliness.

   Nothing could be a greater contrast than the few graceful and
   dignified but very restrained words in which Bertram responded to
   the toast. He is not a man who cares to make fun of women, however
   genially.

   Then came Langdon-Davies, whom I called upon to propose "The Club."
   His was perhaps the most interesting case of all. When I knew
   Langdon-Davies in the Junior Debating Club, he was one of the most
   frivolous young men I ever knew. . . . But knowing that he was a good
   speaker in a light style, and had been President of the Cambridge
   Union, I put him down to propose the Club, thinking that we should
   have enough serious speaking and would be well to err on the side of
   entertainment.

   Langdon-Davies got up and proceeded to deliver a speech that
   made me jump. It was, I thought, the best speech of the evening:
   but I am sure it was the most serious, the most sympathetic and a
   long way the most frankly emotional.

   He said that the Club was not now a club in the strict sense. It
   was two things preeminently and everlastingly--a memory and an
   influence. He spoke with a singular sort of subdued vividness of the
   influence the Club had had on him in boyhood. He then turned to the
   history of the Club. And here, my dearest lady, I am pained to have
   to report that he launched suddenly and dramatically into a most
   extraordinary, and apparently quite sincere eulogium upon myself and
   the influence I had on my schoolfellows. I will not repeat his
   words--I did not believe them, but they took me by surprise and shook
   me somewhat. Mr. B. N. Langdon-Davies, I may remark, and yourself,
   are the only persons who have ever employed the word "genius" in
   connection with me. I trust it will not occur again.

   I replied. My speech was a medley, but it appeared very successful.
   I discussed largely the absence of any successor to the J.D.C. I
   described how I watched the boys leaving school today--a solitary
   figure, clad in the latest fashion, moodily pacing the Hammersmith
   Road--and asked myself "where among these is the girlish gush of a
   Bentley--the passionate volubility of a Vernède, the half-ethereal
   shyness of a Fordham?!!" I admitted that we had had misfortunes, one
   of us had a serious illness, another had had a very good story in the
   Strand Magazine: but I thought that a debating club of 12 members
   that had given three presidents to the University Unions, had not
   done badly. The rest was sentimental. Then began a most extraordinary
   game of battledore and shuttlecock. Vernède proposed the Secretary,
   Mr. Oldershaw. Mr. Oldershaw, instead of replying properly, proposed
   Mr. Bentley and the absent members. Waldo responded for these or
   rather instead of responding proposed Mr. Maurice Solomon. Mr.
   Maurice Solomon instead of responding proposed Mr. Salter. The latter
   was the only one who had not spoken and on rising he explained his
   reasons for refusing. He had not been in the same room with Mr.
   Cholmeley, he said, since he had sat five years ago in the Lower
   Fourth and Mr. Cholmeley had told him that he talked too much. He had
   no desire on his first reappearance to create in Mr. Cholmeley's mind
   the idea that he had been at it ever since.

   After this we passed on to singing and nearly brought down the roof
   of Pinoli's restaurant. Cholmeley, the awful being of whose classic
   taste in Greek iambics I once stood in awe, sang with great feeling a
   fragment of lyric literature of which the following was, as far as I
   remember, the refrain:

   "Singing Chooral-i-chooral-i-tiddity
   Also--Chooral-i-chooral-i-tay
   And chanting Chooral-i-chooral-i-dititty
   Not forgetting--chooral-i-chooral-i-day--"

   Vernède sang a Sussex pothouse chorus in an indolent and refined
   way which was exquisitely incongruous: Waldo and Langdon-Davies also
   sang. I recited an Ode which I had written for the occasion and
   Lucian recited one of Bentley's poems that came out in an Oxford
   magazine. Then we sang the Anthem* of the J.D.C., of which the words
   are, "I am a Member--I'm a Member--Member of the J.D.C. I belong to
   it forever--don't you wish that you were me."

[* It was sung to the tune of "Clementine."]

   Then we paid the bill. Then we borrowed each other's arms and legs
   in an inextricable tangle and sang "Auld Lang Syne." Then we broke up.

   There now. Five mortal pages of writing and nothing about you in
   it. How relieved you must be, wearied out with allusions to your hair
   and your soul and your clothes and your eyes. And yet it has been
   every word of it about you really. I like to make my past vivid to
   you, especially this past, not only because it was on the whole, a
   fine, healthy, foolish, manly, enthusiastic, idiotic past, with the
   very soul of youth in it. Not only because I am a victim of the
   prejudice, common I trust to all mankind, that no one ever had such
   friends as I had. . . .

Readers of the Autobiography will remember that many many years later, at the celebration of
Hilaire Belloc's sixtieth birthday, the guests threw the ball to one another in just this same
fashion. Chesterton had by then so far forgotten this earlier occasion that he spoke of the
Belloc birthday party as the only dinner in his life at which every diner made a speech.

Two more extracts from his letters must be given, showing the efforts made by Frances to look
after Gilbert, and his reactions. One of his friends remarked that Gilbert's life was unique
in that, never having left home for a boarding school or University, he passed from the care
of his mother to the care of his wife. I think too that the degree of his physical helplessness
affected all who came near him with the feeling that while he might lead them where he would
intellectually, it was their task to look after a body that would otherwise be wholly neglected.

   The old religionists used to talk about a man being "a fool for
   Christ's sake"--certainly I have been a blithering fool for your
   sake. I went to see the doctor, as you requested. He asked me what he
   could do for me. I told him I hadn't the least idea, but people
   thought my cold had been going on long enough. He said, "I've no
   doubt it has." He then, to afford some relief to the idiotic futility
   of the situation, wrote me a prescription, which I read on my way up
   to business, weeping over the pathetic parts and laughing heartily at
   the funny ones. I have since had some of it. It tastes pretty aimless.

   I cannot remember for certain whether I mentioned in my letter that
   I had had an invitation including yourself, from my Aunt Kate for
   this Friday. As you do not refer to it, I expect I didn't--so I wrote
   to her giving both our thanks and explaining the state of affairs.
   "All is over," I said, "between that lady and myself. Do not name her
   to me, lest the hideous word 'Woman' should blind me to the seraphic
   word 'Aunt.' My life is a howling waste--but what matter? Ha! Ha!
   Ha!" I cannot remember my exact words, of course. . . .

   . . . I am a revolting object. My hair is a matted chaos spread all
   over the floor, my beard is like a hard broom. My necktie is on the
   wrong way up: my bootlaces trail half-way down Fleet St. Why not?
   When one's attempts at reformation are "not much believed in" what
   other course is open but a contemptuous relapse into liberty?

   Your last letter makes me much happier. I put great faith in the
   healing power of the great winds and the sun. "Nature," as Walt
   Whitman says, "and her primal sanities." Mrs. S . . . , also, is a
   primal sanity. It is not, I believe, considered complimentary, in a
   common way, to approach an attractive lady and say pleasantly, "You
   are thousands of years old." Or, "You seem to me as old as the
   mountains." Therefore I do not say it. But I always feel that anyone
   beautiful and strong is really old--for the really old things are not
   decrepit: decrepit things are dying early. The Roman Empire was
   decrepit. A sunrise cloud is old.

   So I think there are some people, who even in their youth, seem to
   have existed always: they bear the mark of the elemental things: the
   things that recur; they are as old as springtime, as old as
   daybreak--as old as Youth.

CHAPTER X

Who is G.K.C.?

THE BOER WAR--and the whole country enthusiastically behind it. The Liberal Party as a whole
went with the Conservatives. The leading Fabians--Bernard Shaw, Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Webb, Hubert
Bland, Cecil Chesterton and the "semi-detached Fabian" H. G. Wells--were likewise for the war.
Only a tiny minority remained in opposition, most of whom were pacifists or cranks of one kind
or another. To the sane minority of this minority Gilbert found himself belonging. It is something
of a tribute to the national feeling at such a moment of tension that (as an American has noted)
"Chesterton was the one British writer, utterly unknown before, who built up a great reputation,
and it was gained, not through nationalistic support, but through determined and persistent
opposition to British policy."*

[* Chesterton, by Cyril Clemens, p. 20.]

In his Daily News column a correspondent later asked him to define his position. Chesterton
replied, "The unreasonable patriot is one who sees the faults of his fatherland with an eye
which is clearer and more merciless than any eye of hatred, the eye of an irrational and irrevocable
love." His attitude sprang, he claimed, not from defect but from excess of patriotism.

It is hard to imagine anything that would clarify better the ideas of a strong mind than finding
itself in opposition. This opposition began at home, in argument with Cecil. Later the two
brothers would agree about most main issues, but now Cecil was a Tory democrat, Gilbert a pro-Boer,
and what was known as a little Englander. The tie between the two brothers was very close.
As the "Innocent Child" developed into the combative companion, there is no doubt that he proportionately
affected Gilbert. All their friends talk of the endless amicable arguments through which both
grew. Conrad Noel remembers parties at Warwick Gardens during the Boer War at which the two
brothers "would walk up and down like the two pistons of an engine" to the disorganisation
of the company and the dismay of their parents. It was at this time that Frances, engaged to
a deeply devoted Gilbert, found even that devotion insufficient to pry him and Cecil apart
when an argument had got well under way.

"I must go home, Gilbert. I shall miss my train."

Usually he would have sprung to accompany her, but now she must miss many trains before the
brothers could be separated.

Frances told me that when they were at the seaside the landlady would sometimes clear away
breakfast, leaving the brothers arguing, come to set lunch and later set dinner while still
they argued. They had come to the seaside but they never saw the sea.

Once Frances was staying with them at a house they had taken by the sea. Her room was next
to Cecil's and she could not sleep for the noise of the discussion that went on hour after
hour. About one in the morning she rapped on the wall and said, "O Cecil, do send Gilbert to
bed." A brief silence followed, and then the remark, in a rather abashed voice, "There's no
one here." Cecil had been arguing with himself. Gilbert too argued with himself for the stand
he was taking was a hard one. Mr. Belloc has told me that he felt Gilbert suffered at any word
against England, that his patriotism was passionate. And now he had himself to say that he
believed his country to be in the wrong. To admit it to himself, to state it to others.

This autumn of 1899 G.K. began to write for the Speaker. The weekly of this title had long
been in a languishing condition when it was taken over by a group of young Liberals of very
marked views. Hammond became editor and Philip Comyns Carr sub-editor. Sir John Simon was among
the group for a short while, but he soon told one of them that he feared close association
with the Speaker might injure his career. F. Y. Eccles was in charge of the review department.
He is able to date the start of what was known as the "new" Speaker with great exactitude,
for when the first number was going to press the ultimatum had been sent to Kruger and the
editors hesitated as to whether they should take the risk of announcing that it was war in
South Africa. They decided against, but before their second number appeared war had been declared.

My difficulty in getting a picture of the first meeting of Belloc and Chesterton illustrates
the problem of human testimony and the limits of that problem. For I imagine a scripture critic,
old style, would end by concluding that the men never met at all.

F. Y. Eccles, E. C. Bentley and Lucian Oldershaw all claim to have made the momentous introduction,
Mr. Eccles adding that it took place at the office of the Speaker, while Gilbert himself has
described the meeting twice: once in the street, once in a restaurant. Belloc remembers the
introduction as made in the year 1900 by Lucian Oldershaw, who was living at the time with
Hammond. Mr. Oldershaw usually has the accuracy of the hero-worshipper and upon this matter
he adds several amusing details. For some time he had been trying to get the group on the Speaker
to read Chesterton and had in vain taken several articles to the office. Mr. Eccles declared
the handwriting was that of a Jew and he prejudiced Belloc, says Oldershaw, against reading
"anything written by my Jew friend."

But when at last they did meet, Belloc "opened the conversation by saying in his most pontifical
manner, 'Chesterton, you wr-r-ite very well.'" Chesterton was then 26, Belloc four years older.
It was at the Mont Blanc, a restaurant in Gerrard St., Soho, and the meeting was celebrated
with a bottle of Moulin au Vent.

The first description given by Gilbert himself is at once earlier and more vivid than the better
known one in the Autobiography.

   When I first met Belloc he remarked to the friend who introduced us
   that he was in low spirits. His low spirits were and are much more
   uproarious and enlivening than anybody else's high spirits. He talked
   into the night, and left behind in it a glowing track of good things.
   When I have said that I mean things that are good, and certainly not
   merely bons mots, I have said all that can be said in the most
   serious aspect about the man who has made the greatest fight for good
   things of all the men of my time.

   We met between a little Soho paper shop and a little Soho
   restaurant; his arms and pockets were stuffed with French Nationalist
   and French Atheist newspapers. He wore a straw hat shading his eyes,
   which are like a sailor's, and emphasizing his Napoleonic chin. . . .

   The little restaurant to which we went had already become a haunt
   for three or four of us who held strong but unfashionable views about
   the South African War, which was then in its earliest prestige. Most
   of us were writing on the Speaker. . . .

   . . . What he brought into our dream was this Roman appetite for
   reality and for reason in action, and when he came into the door
   there entered with him the smell of danger.*

[* Introduction to: Hilaire Belloc: The Man and His Work by C. C. Mandell and E. Shanks, 1916.]

"It was from that dingy little Soho café," Chesterton writes in the Autobiography, "that there
emerged the quadruped, the twiformed monster Mr. Shaw has nicknamed the Chesterbelloc."

Listening to Belloc is intoxicating. I have heard many brilliant talkers, but none to whom
that word can so justly be applied. He goes to your head, he takes you off your feet, he leaves
you breathless, he can convince you of anything. My mother and brother both counted it as one
of the great experiences of their lives to have dined with Belloc in a small Paris Restaurant
(Aux Vendanges de Bourgogne) and then to have walked with him the streets of that glorious
city while he discoursed of its past. Imagination staggers before the picture of a Belloc in
his full youth and vigour in a group fitted to strike from him his brightest fire at a moment
big with issues for the world's future.

In Chesterton's Autobiography a chapter is devoted to the "Portrait of A Friend," while Belloc
in turn has said something of Chesterton in obituary notices and also in a brief study of his
position in English literature. None of these documents give much notion of the intellectual
flame struck out by one mind against the other. It has often been asked how much Belloc influenced
Chesterton.

The best test of an influence in a writer's life is to compare what he wrote before with what
he wrote after he was first subjected to it. It is easy to apply this test to Belloc's influence
on G.K.C. because of the mass we still have of his boyhood writings. In pure literature, in
philosophy and theology he remains untouched by the faintest change. Pages from the Notebook
could be woven into Orthodoxy, essays from The Debater introduced into The Victorian Age in
Literature, and it would look simply like buds and flowers on the same bush. Belloc has characterized
himself as ignorant of English literature and says he learnt from Chesterton most of what he
knows of it, while there is no doubt Chesterton was by far the greater philosopher.

With politics, sociology, and history (and the relation of religion to all three) it is different.
Belloc himself told me he thought the chief thing he had done for Chesterton when they first
met was to open his eyes to reality--Chesterton had been unusually young for his twenty-six
years and unusually simple in regard to the political scene. He was in fact the young man he
himself was later to describe as knowing all about politics and nothing about politicians.
The four years between the two men seemed greater than it was, partly because of Belloc's more
varied experience of life--French military training, life at Oxford, wide travel and an early
marriage.

Belloc, then, could teach Chesterton a certain realism about politics--which meant a certain
cynicism about politicians. Far more valuable, however, was what Belloc had to give him in
sociology. We have seen that G.K. was already dissatisfied with Socialism before he met Belloc;
it may be that by his consideration of the nature of man he would later have reached the positions
so individually set out in What's Wrong with the World--but this can only remain a theoretical
question. For Belloc did actually at this date answer the sociological question that Chesterton
at this date was putting: answered it brilliantly and answered it truly. Every test that G.K.
could later apply--of profound human reality, of truth divinely revealed--convinced him that
the answer was true.

He had, he has told us, been a Socialist because it was so horrible not to be one, but he now
learned of the historical Christian alternative--equally opposed to Socialism and to Capitalism--
well-distributed property. This had worked in the past, was still working in many European
countries, could be made to work again in England. The present trend appeared to Belloc to
be towards the Servile State, and in the book with this title and a second book The Restoration
of Property he later developed his sociology. After this first meeting, two powerful and very
different minds would reciprocally influence one another. An admirer of both told me that he
thought Chesterton got the idea of small property from Belloc but gave Belloc a fuller realization
of the position of the family. One difference between them is that Belloc writes sociology
as a textbook while Chesterton writes it as a human document. All the wealth of imagination
that Belloc pours into The Path to Rome or The Four Men he sternly excludes from the Servile
State. The poet, traveller, essayist is one man, the sociologist another.

The third field of influence was history. Here Belloc did Chesterton two great services--he
restored the proportion of English history, and he put England back into its context. Since
the Reformation, English history had been written with all the stress on the Protestant period.
Lingard had written earlier but had not been popularized and certainly would not be used at
St. Paul's School. And even Lingard had laid little stress on the social effects of the Reformation.
Mr. Hammond's contemporary work on English social history fitted into Belloc's more vivid if
less documented vision--none of this could be disregarded by later writers.

Belloc, too, restored that earlier England to the Christendom to which it belonged. The England
of Macaulay or of Green had, like Mr. Mantalini's dowager, either no outline or a "demned outline"
for it was cut out of a larger map. And Chesterton was always seeking an outline of history.

To get England back into the context of Christendom is a great thing: just how great must depend
upon how rightly Christendom is conceived. One cannot always escape the feeling that Belloc
conceives it too narrowly. His famous phrase "The Faith is Europe and Europe is the Faith"
omits too much--the East out of which Christianity came; the new worlds into which Europe has
flowed. Belloc of course knows these things and has often said them. It is rather a question
of emphasis, of how things loom in the mind when judgments have to be made. In that sense he
does tend to narrow the Faith to Europe: in exactly the same sense he does tend to narrow Europe
to France. Born in France of a French father, educated in England, Belloc chose his mother's
nationality, chose to be English; but his Creator had chosen differently, and there is not
much a man can do in competition with his Creator. I do not for a moment suggest that Belloc,
having chosen to be English, is conscious of anything but loyalty to the country of his adoption.
The thing lies far below the mind's conscious movements. Belloc thinks of himself as an Englishman
with a patriotic duty to criticise his country, but his feelings are not really those of an
Englishman. Once at least he recognised this when he wrote the verse:

England to me that never have malingered, Nor spoken falsely, nor your flattery used, Nor even
in my rightful garden lingered--: * What have you not refused?

[* Italics mine.]

And just as France was Belloc's rightful garden so England was Chesterton's. When first they
talked of the Church he told Belloc that he wanted the example of "someone entirely English
who should none the less have come in." When criticising his country his voice has the note
of pain that only love can give. Belloc saw him as intensely national "English of the English
. . . a mirror of England . . . he writes with an English accent."

It is of some interest that after meeting Belloc Gilbert added notes to two early poems, each
note reflecting a judgment of Belloc's--on the Dreyfus case which Belloc saw as all French
Catholics saw it: on Anglo-American relations which Belloc saw as most Latin Europeans would
see it.

(1) The first was the poem entitled "To a Certain Nation"--addressed to France in commentary
on the Dreyfus case of 1899 which must be briefly explained for those who are too young to
remember the excitement it caused. Captain Dreyfus, a Jewish officer in the French army, had
been found guilty of treachery and sent to Devil's Island. All France was divided into two
camps on the question of his guilt or innocence. In general, Catholics and what we should call
the Right were all for his guilt; atheists, anti-clericals and believers in the Republic were
for his innocence. Passions were roused to fury on both sides. English opinion was almost entirely
for his innocence. I was a small girl at the time and I remember that my brother and I amused
ourselves by crying Vive Dreyfus, on all possible and impossible occasions, for the annoyance
of our pious French governess. I remember also that our parents were startled by the vehemence
of the French Catholic paper La Croix from which our governess imbibed her views. Ultimately
the case was reopened, and Dreyfus, after years of horror on Devil's Island, found not guilty
and restored to his rank in the army. But there are, I know, Catholic Frenchmen alive today
who refuse to believe in his innocence and hold that the whole thing was a Jewish-Masonic plot
that hampered the French espionage service and nearly lost us the war of 1914.

In the first edition of The Wild Knight, written before the meeting with Belloc, Gilbert, like
any other English Liberal, had assumed Dreyfus' innocence and in the poem "To a Certain Nation"
had reproached the France of the Revolution, the France he had loved, as unworthy of herself.

   . . . and we
   Who knew thee once, we have a right to weep.

The Note in the second edition shows him as now undecided about Dreyfus' guilt and concludes:
"There may have been a fog of injustice in the French courts; I know that there was a fog of
injustice in the English newspapers."

(2) In "An Alliance" Chesterton had gloried in "the blood of Hengist" and hymned an Anglo-American
alliance with the enthusiasm of a young Republican who took for granted the links of language
and of origin that might draw together two great countries into something significant:

   In change, eclipse, and peril
   Under the whole world's scorn,
   By blood and death and darkness
   The Saxon peace is sworn;
   That all our fruit be gathered
   And all our race take hands,
   And the sea be a Saxon river
   That runs through Saxon lands.

But in the Note to the second edition, he says:

   In the matter of the "Anglo-American Alliance" I have come to see
   that our hopes of brotherhood with America are the same in kind as
   our hopes of brotherhood with any other of the great independent
   nations of Christendom. And a very small study of history was
   sufficient to show me that the American Nation, which is a hundred
   years old, is at least fifty years older than the Anglo-Saxon race.*

[* Collected Poems, p. 318.]

The poem was of course only a boyish expression of a boyish dream; like all dreams, like all
boyhood dreams especially, it omitted too much; yet it contained a thought that might well
have borne rich fruit in Gilbert's Catholic life.

My mother told me once that when after three years' study of Queen Elizabeth's character she
came to a different conclusion from Belloc, she found it almost impossible to resist his power
and hold on to her own view. It must be realised that Chesterton actually preferred the attitude
of a disciple. A mutual friend has told me that Chesterton listened to Belloc all the time
and said very little himself. In matters historical where he felt his own ignorance, Gilbert's
tendency was simply to make an act of faith in Belloc.

On nothing were the two men more healthily in accord than on the Boer War. In an interesting
study of Belloc, prefixed to a French translation of Contemporary England, F. Y. Eccles explains
how he and most of the Speaker group differed from the pacifist pro-Boers, who hated the South
African war because they hated all wars. The young Liberals on the Speaker were not pacifists.
They hated the war because they thought it would harm England--harm her morally--to be fighting
for an unjust cause, and even materially to be shedding the blood of her sons and pouring out
her wealth at the bidding of a handful of alien financiers. Thus far Gilbert was among one
group with whom he was in fullest sympathy. But I think he went further. Mr. Eccles told me
that most of the Speaker group had no sympathy with the Boers. Gilbert had. He thought of them
as human beings who might well have been farmers of Sussex or of Kent, something of an older
civilization, resisting money power and imperialism and perishing thereby.

Few, indeed, of the Liberal Party held Chesterton's ideal--an England territorially small,
spiritually great. The Speaker was struggling against odds: it was the voice of a tiny group.
To Gilbert it seemed that this mattered nothing so long as that little group held to their
great ideas, so long as the paper represented not merely a group or a party but the Liberal
Idea. In an unfinished letter to Hammond is to be found this idea as he saw it and his dawning
disappointment even with the paper that most nearly stood for it:

   I am just about to commit a serious impertinence. I believe however
   that you will excuse it because it is about the paper and I know
   there is not another paper dead or alive for which I would take the
   trouble or run the risk of offence.

   I am hearing on all sides the Speaker complained of by the very
   people who should be and would be (if they could) its enthusiastic
   supporters and I cannot altogether deny the truth of their
   objections, though I am glad to notice both in them and in myself the
   fact that those objections are tacitly based on the assumption of the
   Speaker having an aim and standard higher than other papers. If the
   Speaker were a mere party rag like "Judy" or "The Times," it would be
   only remarkable for moderation, but to us who have built hopes on it
   as the pioneer of a younger and larger political spirit it is
   difficult to be silent when we find it, as it seems to us, poisoned
   with that spirit of ferocious triviality which is the spirit of
   Birmingham eloquence, and with that evil instinct which has
   disintegrated the Irish party, the instinct for hating the man who
   differs from you slightly, more than the man who differs from you
   altogether.

   Of two successive numbers during the stress of the fight (a fight
   in which we had first to unite our army and then to use it) a
   considerable portion was devoted, first to sneering at "The Daily
   News" and then to sneering at "The Westminster Gazette." . . .

   There is a sentence in the Book of Proverbs which expresses the
   whole of my politics. "For the liberal man deviseth liberal things
   and by his liberality he shall stand." Now what I object to is
   sneering at "The Westminster" as a supporter of Chamberlain when
   everyone knows that it hardly lets a day pass without an ugly
   caricature of him. What I object to in this is that it is talking
   Brummagem--it is not "devising liberal things" but spiteful,
   superficial, illiberal things. It is claptrap and temporary
   deception of the "Patriotism before Politics" order. . . .

   To all this you will say there is an obvious answer. The Speaker
   is a party paper and does not profess to be otherwise. But here I am
   sure we are mistaking our mission. What the Speaker is (I hope and
   believe) destined to do, is to renovate Liberalism, and though
   Liberalism (like every other party) is often conducted by claptrap,
   it has never been renovated by claptrap, but by great command of
   temper and the persistent exposition of persuasive and unanswerable
   truths. It is while we are in the desert that we have the vision: we
   being a minority, must be all philosophers: we must think for both
   parties in the State. It is no good our devoting ourselves to the
   flowers of mob oratory with no mob to address them to. We must, like
   the Free Traders, for instance, have discoveries, definite truths and
   endless patience in explaining them. We must be more than a political
   party or we shall cease to be one. Time and again in history victory
   has come to a little party with big ideas: but can anyone conceive
   anything with the mark of death more on its brow than a little party
   with little ideas?*

[* Undated, handwritten letter in a notebook.]

Such Liberalism was not perhaps of this world. It certainly was not of the Liberal Party!

Gilbert argued much with himself during these years. He had come out of his time of trial with
firm faith in God and in man. But his philosophy was still in the making, and he made it largely
out of the material supplied by ordinary London suburban society and by the rather less usual
society of cranks and enthusiasts so plentiful at the end of the nineteenth century. He has
written in the Autobiography of the artistic and dilettante groups where everyone discussed
religion and no one practised it, of the Christian Socialists and other societies into which
he and Cecil found their way, and of some of the friendships they formed. Among these one of
the closest was with Conrad Noel who wrote in answer to my request for his recollections:

   We met G.K.C. for the first time at the Stapleys' in Bloomsbury
   Square, at a series of meetings of the Christo-Theosophic Society. He
   was like a very big fish out of water; he was comparatively thin,
   however, in those days, nearly forty years ago. We had been much
   intrigued by the weekly contribution of an unknown writer to "The
   Speaker" and "The Nation"--brilliant work, and my wife and I,
   independently, came to the conclusion when we heard this young man
   speak that it must be he. The style was unmistakable.

   I thought of writing to him to congratulate him on his speech, but
   before I could do so, I got a letter from him, saying that he was
   coming to hear me in the same series in a week or so; it was thus we
   first became acquainted, and the acquaintance ripened into a warm
   friendship with us both. He and his brother Cecil were in and out of
   our flat in Paddington Green, where I was assistant curate. He was
   genial, bubbling over with jokes, at which he roared with laughter.

The question was becoming insistent: when would there be enough money for Frances and Gilbert
to get married?

In one letter Frances asks him what he thinks of Omar Khayyam. He replies at great length,
and concludes:

   You see the result of asking me for an opinion. I have written it
   very hurriedly: if I had paused I might make an essay of it.
   (Commercial Pig!) Never mind, sweetheart, that Essay might be a
   sauce-pan some day--or at any rate a cheap toast-rack.

Of his belief in God, in man, in goodness, as against the pessimist outlook of the day, Gilbert,
as we have seen, felt profound certitude. That his outlook was one that held him back from
many fields of opportunity he was already partly conscious. A fragment of a letter to Frances
expresses this feeling.

   . . . I find I cannot possibly come tonight as my Canadian uncle
   keeps his last night in England in a sort of family party. And I
   abide by my father's house--said our Lady of the Snows.

   I have just had a note from Rex, asking me, with characteristic
   precision, if I can produce a play in the style of Maeterlinck by
   6.50 this afternoon, or words to that effect. The idea is full of
   humour. He remarks, as a matter of fact that there is just a remote
   chance of his getting the Stage Society to act my play of The Wild
   Knight. This opens to me a vista of quite new ambition. Why only at
   the Stage Society?--I see a visionary programme.

   The Wild Knight . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Charles Hawtree
   Captain Redfeather  . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Penley
   Olive . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Miss Katie Seymour
   Priest  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sir Henry Irving
   Lord Orm  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Arthur Roberts

   I am working and must get on with my work. I do not feel any
   despondency about it because I know it is good and worth doing. It is
   extraordinary how much more moral one is than one imagines. At school
   I never minded getting into a row if it were really not my fault.
   Similarly, I have never cared a rap for rejections or criticisms,
   since I had got a point of view to express which I was certain held
   water. Some people think it holds water--on the brain. But I don't
   mind. Bless them.

   I am afraid, darling, that this doctrine of patience is hard on
   you. But really it's a grand thing to think oneself right. It's what
   this whole age is starving for. Something to suffer for and go mad
   and miserable over--that is the only luxury of the mind. I wish I
   were a convinced Pro-Boer and could stare down a howling mob. But I
   am right about the Cosmos, and Schopenhauer and Co. are wrong. . . .

Two interesting points in this letter are the remark about wishing to be a convinced Pro-Boer--which
he certainly became--and the suggestion of a possible performance of The Wild Knight. Perhaps
the letter was written before he had finally taken his stand (it has no dating postmark), or
perhaps it merely means that his convictions on the cosmos are more absolute than on the war.
As to The Wild Knight: it was never acted and its publication was made possible only by the
generosity of Gilbert's father. For a volume of comic verse, Greybeards at Play, which appeared
earlier in the same year (1900), he could find a publisher, but serious poetry has never been
easy to launch.

The letter that follows has a more immediate bearing on their own future:

   11, Warwick Gardens,
   Good Friday. 1900.

   . . . As you have tabulated your questions with such alarming
   precision I must really endeavour to answer them categorically.

   (1) How am I? I am in excellent health. I have an opaque cold in my
   head, cough tempestuously and am very deaf. But these things I count
   as mere specks showing up the general blaze of salubrity. I am
   getting steadily better and I don't mind how slowly. As for my
   spirits a cold never affects them: for I have plenty to do and think
   about indoors. One or two little literary schemes--trifles
   doubtless--claim my attention.

   (2) Am I going away at Easter? The sarcastic might think it a
   characteristic answer, but I can only reply that I had banished the
   matter from my mind, a vague problem of the remote future until you
   asked it: but since this is Easter and we are not gone away I suppose
   we are not going away.

   (3) I will meet you at Euston on Tuesday evening though hell itself
   should gape and bid me stop at home.

   (4) I am not sure whether a review on Crivelli's art is out this
   week: I am going to look.

   (5) Alas! I have not been to Nutt. There are good excuses, but they
   are not the real ones. I will write to him now. Yes: Now.

   (6) Does my hair want cutting? My hair seems pretty happy. You are
   the only person who seems to have any fixed theory on this. For all I
   know it may be at that fugitive perfection which has moved you to
   enthusiasm. Three minutes after this perfection, I understand, a
   horrible degeneration sets in: the hair becomes too long, the figure
   disreputable and profligate: and the individual is unrecognised by
   all his friends. It is he that wants cutting then, not his hair.

   (7) As to shirt-links, studs and laces, I glitter from head to foot
   with them.

   (8) I have had a few skirmishes with Knollys but not the general
   engagement. When this comes off, you shall have news from our
   correspondent. (Knollys was Frances's brother.)

   (9) I have got a really important job in reviewing--the Life of
   Ruskin for the Speaker. As I have precisely 73 theories about Ruskin
   it will be brilliant and condensed. I am also reviewing the Life of
   the Kendals, a book on the Renascence and one on Correggio for "The
   Bookman."

   (10) How far is it to Babylon? Babylon I am firmly convinced is just
   round the corner: if one could be only certain which corner. This
   conviction is the salt of my life.

   (11) Really and truly I see no reason why we should not be married
   in April if not before. I have been making some money calculations
   with the kind assistance of Rex, and as far as I can see we could
   live in the country on quite a small amount of regular literary
   work. . .

   P.S. Forgot the last question.

   (12) Oddly enough, I was writing a poem. Will send it to you.

Gilbert's engagement had given him the impetus to earn more but he was always entirely unpractical.
His salary at Fisher Unwin's had been negligible and he was not making much yet by the journalism
which was now his only source of income. The repeated promise to "write to Nutt" is very characteristic.
For Nutt was the manager of the solitary publisher who was at the moment prepared to put a
book of Gilbert's on the market at his own risk!

Although they did not manage to get married this year, by the end of it he was becoming well
known. The articles, in the Speaker especially, were attracting attention and Greybeards at
Play had a considerable success. This, the first of Gilbert's books to be published, is a curiosity.
It is made up of three incredibly witty satirical poems--"The Oneness of the Philosopher with
Nature," "The Dangers Attending Altruism on the High Seas" and "The Disastrous Spread of Aestheticism
in All Classes." The illustrations drawn by himself are as witty as the verses. By the beginning
of 1901 his work was being sought for by other Liberal periodicals and he was writing regularly
for the Daily News. The following letter to Frances bears the postmark Feb. 8, 1901.

   Somewhere in the Arabian Nights or some such place there is a story
   of a man who was Emperor of the Indies for one day. I am rather in
   the position of that person: for I am Editor of the Speaker for one
   day. Hammond is unwell and Hirst has gone to dine with John Morley,
   so the latter asked me to see the paper through for this number.
   Hence this notepaper and the great hurry and brevity which I fear
   must characterise this letter.

   There are a few minor amusing things, however, that I have a moment
   to mention.

   (1) The "Daily News" have sent me a huge mass of books to review,
   which block up the front hall. A study of Swinburne--a book on
   Kipling--the last Richard le Gallienne--all very interesting. See if
   I don't do some whacking articles, all about the stars and the moon
   and the creation of Adam and that sort of thing. I really think I
   could work a revolution in Daily paper--writing by the introduction
   of poetical prose.

   (2) Among other books that I have to review came, all unsolicited,
   a book by your old friend Schofield. Ha! Ha! Ha! It's about the
   Formation of Character, or some of those low and beastly amusements.
   I think of introducing parts of my Comic Opera of the P.N.E.U. into
   the articles.

   (3) Another rather funny thing is the way in which my name is being
   spread about. Belloc declares that everyone says to him "Who
   discovered Chesterton?" and that he always replies "The genius
   Oldershaw." This may be a trifle Gallic, but Hammond has shown me
   more than one letter from Cambridge dons and such people demanding
   the identity of G.K.C. in a quite violent tone. They excuse
   themselves by offensive phrases in which the word "brilliant" occurs,
   but I shouldn't wonder if there was a thick stick somewhere at the
   back of it.

   Belloc, by the way, has revealed another side of his extraordinary
   mind. He seems to have taken our marriage much to heart, for he talks
   to me, no longer about French Jacobins and Mediaeval Saints, but
   entirely about the cheapest flats and furniture, on which, as on the
   others, he is a mine of information, assuring me paternally that
   "it's the carpet that does you." I should think this fatherly tone
   would amuse you.

   Now I must leave off: for the pages have come up to be seen through
   the press. . . .

Greybeards at Play its author never took very seriously. It was not included in his Collected
Poems and he does not even mention it in his Autobiography. He attached a great deal more importance
to The Wild Knight and Other Poems. It was a volume of some fifty poems, many of which had
already appeared in The Outlook and The Speaker. It was published late in 1900 and produced
a crop of enthusiastic reviews and more and more people began to ask one another, "Who is G.
K. Chesterton?"

One reviewer wrote: "If it were not for the haunting fear of losing a humourist we should welcome
the author of The Wild Knight to a high place among the poets." Another spoke of the "curious
intensity" of the volume. Among those who were less pleased was John Davidson, on whom the
book had been fathered by one reviewer, and who denied responsibility for such "frantic rubbish,"
and also a "reverent" reviewer who complained, "It is scattered all over with the name of God."

To Frances, Gilbert wrote:

   I have been taken to see Mrs. Meynell, poet and essayist, who is
   enthusiastic about the Wild Knight and is lending it to all her
   friends.

   Last night I went to Mrs. Cox's Book Party. My costume was a great
   success, everyone wrestled with it, only one person guessed it, and
   the rest admitted that it was quite fair and simple. It consisted of
   wearing on the lapel of my dress coat the following letters.
   U.U.N.S.I.J. Perhaps you would like to work this out all by
   yourself--But no, I will have mercy and not sacrifice. The book I
   represented was "The Letters of Junius."

Mrs. Meynell never came to know Gilbert well and her daughter says in the biography that her
mother realised his "critical approval" (admiration would be a better word) of her own work
only by reading his essays. But he once wrote an introduction for a book of hers and her admiration
of him would break out frequently in amusing exclamations: "I hope the papers are nice to my
Chesterton. He is mine much more, really, than Belloc's."* "If I had been a man, and large,
I should have been Chesterton."**

[* Alice Meynell, p. 259.]

[** Ibid., p. 260.]

Brimley Johnson, who was to have been Gilbert's brother-in-law, sent The Wild Knight to Rudyard
Kipling. His reply is amusing and also touching, for Mr. Johnson was clearly pouring out, in
interest in Gilbert's career and in forwarding his marriage with Frances, the affections that
might merely have been frozen by Gertrude's death.

   The Elms, Rottingdean,
   Nov. 28th.

   DEAR MR. JOHNSON,

   Many thanks for The Wild Knight. Of course I knew some of the
   poems before, notably The Donkey which stuck in my mind at the
   time I read it.

   I agree with you that there is any amount of promise in the
   work--and I think marriage will teach him a good deal too. It will be
   curious to see how he'll develop in a few years. We all begin with
   arrainging [sic] and elaborating all the Heavens and Hells and stars
   and tragedies we can lay our poetic hands on--Later we see folk--just
   common people under the heavens--

   Meantime I wish him all the happiness that there can be and for
   yourself such comfort as men say time brings after loss. It's apt to
   be a weary while coming but one goes the right way to get it if one
   interests oneself in the happiness of other folk. Even though the
   sight of this happiness is like a knife turning in a wound.

   Yours sincerely,

   RUDYARD KIPLING.

   P.S. Merely as a matter of loathsome detail, Chesterton has a bad
   attack of "aureoles." They are spotted all over the book. I think
   every one is bound in each book to employ unconsciously some pet word
   but that was Rossetti's.

   Likewise I notice "wan waste" and many "wans" and things that
   "catch and cling." He is too good not to be jolted out of that. What
   do you say to a severe course of Walt Whitman--or will marriage make
   him see people?

Gilbert had already taken both prescriptions--Walt Whitman and "folk, just common people under
the heavens." (Many years later James Agate wrote in Thursdays and Fridays: "Unlike some other
serious thinkers, Chesterton understood his fellow men; the woes of a jockey were as familiar
to him as the worries of a judge.") Perhaps some slight echoes of Swinburne did remain in this
collection. Many earlier poems exist in the Swinburne manner, not of thought but of expression:
Gilbert left an absolute command that these should never be published.

All Englishmen were stricken by the death of Queen Victoria. Mr. Somers Cocks, who had come
to know Gilbert through his intimacy with Belloc, remembers that he wept when he heard of it.
The tears may almost be heard in a letter to Frances.

   Today the Queen was buried. I did not see the procession, first
   because I had an appointment with Hammond (of which more anon) and
   secondly because I think I felt the matter too genuinely. I like a
   crowd when I am triumphant or excited: for a crowd is the only thing
   that can cheer, as much as a cock is the only thing that can crow.
   Can anything be more absurd than the idea of a man cheering alone in
   his back bedroom? But I think that reverence is better expressed by
   one man than a million. There is something unnatural and impossible,
   even grotesque, in the idea of a vast crowd of human beings all
   assuming an air of delicacy. All the same, my dear, this is a great
   and serious hour and it is felt so completely by all England that I
   cannot deny the enduring wish I have, quite apart from certain more
   private sentiments, that the noblest Englishwoman I have ever known
   was here with me to renew, as I do, private vows of a very real
   character to do my best for this country of mine which I love with a
   love passing the love of Jingoes. It is sometimes easy to give one's
   country blood and easier to give her money. Sometimes the hardest
   thing of all is to give her truth.

   I am writing an article on the good friend who is dead: I hope
   particularly that you will like it. The one I really like so far is
   Belloc's in the "Speaker." I had, as I said, many things to say, but
   owing to the hour and a certain fatigue and idiocy in myself, I have
   only space for the most important.

   Hammond sent for me today and asked me seriously if I would help
   him in writing a book on Fox, sharing work, fame and profits. I told
   him that I had no special talent for research: he replied that he had
   no talent for literary form. I then said that I would be delighted to
   give him such assistance as I honestly thought valuable enough for
   him to split his profits for, that I thought I could give him such
   assistance in the matter of picturesqueness and plan of idea, more
   especially as Fox was a great hero of mine and the philosophy of his
   life involves the whole philosophy of the Revolution and of the love
   of mankind. We arranged that we would make a preliminary examination
   of the Fox record and then decide. . . .*

[* This book was never written nor even, I think, begun.]

Three more letters, two to Frances, one to his mother, complete the outline of this eventful
period. He was now determined to get married quickly. For the first time and entirely without
rancour, he realised the inevitable competition in the world of journalism. The struggle for
success meant men fighting one another. Other journalists were fighting him; but truly enough,
though with a rare dispassionateness, he realised that this meant a need for Daily bread in
others similar to his own.

   11, Warwick Gardens, W.
   (postmark: Feb. 19, 1901)

   . . . I hope that in your own beautiful kindness you will be
   indulgent just at this time if I only write rough letters or
   postcards. I am for the first time in my life, thoroughly worried,
   and I find it a rather exciting and not entirely unpleasant
   sensation. But everything depends just now, not only on my sticking
   hard to work and doing a lot of my very best, but on my thinking
   about it, keeping wide awake to the turn of the market, being ready
   to do things not in half a week, but in half an hour; getting the
   feelings and tendencies of other men and generally living in work. I
   am going to see Lehmann tomorrow and many things may come of it. I
   cannot express to you what it is to feel the grip of the great wheel
   of real life on you for the first time. For the first time I know
   what is meant by the word "enemies"--men who deliberately dislike you
   and oppose your career--and the funny thing is that I don't dislike
   them at all myself. Poor devils--very likely they want to be married
   in June too.

   I am a Socialist, but I love this fierce old world and am beginning
   to find a beauty in making money (in moderation) as in making
   statues. Always through my head one tune and words of Kipling set to
   it.

   11, Warwick Gardens, W.
   (postmark: March 4, 1901)

   . . . I have delayed this letter in a scandalous manner because I
   hoped I might have the arrangements with the Daily News to tell
   you; as that is again put off, I must tell you later. The following,
   however, are grounds on which I believe everything will turn out
   right this year. It is arithmetic. "The Speaker" has hitherto paid me
   £70 a year, that is £6 a month. It has now raised it to £10 a month,
   which makes £120 a year. Moreover they encourage me to write as much
   as I like in the paper, so that assuming that I do something extra
   (poem, note, leader) twice a month or every other number, which I can
   easily do, that brings us to nearly £150 a year. So much for "The
   Speaker." Now for the "Daily News," both certainties and
   probabilities. Hammond (to whom you will favour me by being eternally
   grateful) pushed me so strongly with Lehmann for the post of manager
   of the literary page that it is most probable that I shall get
   it. . . . If I do, Hammond thinks they couldn't give me less than
   £200 a year. So that if this turns out right, we have £350, say,
   without any aid from "Bookman," books, magazine articles or stories.

   Let us however, put this chance entirely on one side and suppose
   that they can give me nothing but regular work on the "Daily News." I
   have just started a set of popular fighting articles on literature in
   the "Daily News" called "The Wars of Literature." They will appear at
   least twice a week, often three times. For each of these I am paid
   about a guinea and a half. This makes about £3 a week which is £144 a
   year. Thus with only the present certainties of "Speaker" and "Daily
   News" we have £264 a year, or very likely (with extra "Speaker"
   items) £288, close on £300. This again may be reinforced by all sorts
   of miscellaneous work which I shall get now my name is getting known,
   magazine articles, helping editors or publishers, reading Mss. and so
   on. In all these calculations I have kept deliberately under the
   figures, not over them: so that I don't think I have failed
   altogether to bring my promise within reasonable distance of fact
   already. Belloc suggested that I should write for the "Pilot" and as
   he is on it, he will probably get me some work. Hammond has become
   leader-writer on the "Echo" and will probably get me some reviewing
   on that. And between ourselves, to turn with intense relief, from all
   this egotism, Hammond and I have a little scheme on hand for getting
   Oldershaw a kind of editorial place on the "Echo" where they want a
   brisk but cultivated man of the world. I think we can bring it off:
   it is a good place for an ambitious young man. It would give me more
   happiness than I can say, while I am building my own house of peace,
   to do something for the man who did so much in giving me my reason
   for it.

   For well Thou knowest, O God most wise
   How good on earth was his gift to me
   Shall this be a little thing in thine eyes
   That is greater in mine than the whole great sea?

   I am afraid . . . that this is a very dull letter. But you know
   what I am. I can be practical, but only deliberately, by fixing my
   mind on a thing. In this letter, I sum up my last month's thinking
   about money resources. I haven't given a thought yet to the
   application and distribution of them in rent, furniture, etc. When I
   have done thinking about that you will get another dull letter. I can
   keep ten poems and twenty theories in my head at once. But I can only
   think of one practical thing at a time. The only conclusion of this
   letter is that on any calculation whatever, we ought to have £300 a
   year, and be on the road to four in a little while. With this before
   you I daresay you (who are more practical than I) could speculate and
   suggest a little as to the form of living and expenditure. . . .

Gilbert's mother perhaps needed more convincing. The letter to her has no postmark but the
£300 a year has grown to almost £500 and a careful economy is promised.

   Mrs. Barnes
   The Orchards
   Burley. Hants.

   MY DEAREST MOTHER,

   Thank you very much for your two letters. If you get back to
   Kensington before me (I shall return on Thursday night: I find I work
   here very well) would you mind sending on any letters. You might send
   on the cheque: though that is not necessary.

   There is a subject we have touched on once or twice that I want to
   talk to you about, for I am very much worried in my mind as to
   whether you will disapprove of a decision I have been coming to with
   a very earnest belief that I am seeking to do the right thing. I have
   just had information that my screw from "The Speaker" will be yet
   further increased from £120 a year to £150, or, if I do the full
   amount I can, £190 a year. I have also had a request from the "Daily
   News" to do two columns a week regularly, which [is] rather over £100
   a year, besides other book reviews. My other sources of income which
   should bring the amount up to nearly £150 more, at any rate, I will
   speak of in a moment.

   There is something, as I say, that is distressing me a great deal.
   I believe I said about a year ago that I hoped to get married in a
   year, if I had money enough. I fancy you took it rather as a joke: I
   was not so certain about it myself then. I have however been coming
   very seriously to the conclusion that if I pull off one more
   affair--a favourable arrangement with Reynolds' Newspaper, whose
   editor wants to see me at the end of this week, I shall, unless you
   disapprove, make a dash for it this year. When I mentioned the matter
   a short time ago, you said (if I remember right) that you did not
   think I ought to marry under £400 or £500 a year. I was moved to go
   into the matter thoroughly then and there, but as it happened I knew
   I had one or two bargains just coming of which would bring me nearer
   to the standard you named, so I thought I would let it stand over
   till I could actually quote them. Believe me, my dearest mother, I am
   not considering this affair wildly or ignorantly: I have been doing
   nothing but sums in my head for the last months. This is how matters
   stand. The Speaker editor says they will take as much as I like to
   write. If I write my maximum I get £192 a year from them. From the
   Daily News, even if I do not get the post on the staff which was half
   promised me, I shall get at least £100 a year with a good deal over
   for reviews outside "The Wars of Literature." That makes nearly £300.
   With the Manchester Sunday Chronicle I have just made a bargain by
   which I shall get £72 a year. This makes £370 a year altogether. The
   matter now, I think, largely depends on Reynolds' Newspaper. If I do,
   as is contemplated, weekly articles and thumbnail sketches, they
   cannot give me less than £ 100 a year. This would bring the whole to
   £470 a year, or within £30 of your standard. Of course I know quite
   well that this is not like talking of an income from a business or a
   certain investment. But we should live a long way within this income,
   if we took a very cheap flat, even a workman's flat if necessary, had
   a woman in to do the laborious Daily work and for the rest waited on
   ourselves, as many people I know do in cheap flats. Moreover,
   journalism has its ups as well as downs, and I, I can fairly say, am
   on the upward wave. Without vanity and in a purely businesslike
   spirit I may say that my work is talked about a great deal. It is at
   least a remarkable fact that every one of the papers I write for (as
   detailed above) came to me and asked me to do work for them: from the
   Daily News down to the Manchester Sunday Chronicle. I have, as I say,
   what seems to me a sufficient income for a start. That I shall have
   as good and better I am as certain as that I sit here. I know the
   clockwork of these papers and among one set of them I might almost
   say that I am becoming the fashion.

   Do not, please, think that I am entertaining this idea without
   realising that I shall have to start in a very serious and economical
   spirit. I have worked it out and I am sure we could live well within
   the above calculations and leave a good margin.

   I make all these prosaic statements because I want you to
   understand that I know the risks I think of running. But it is not
   any practical question that is distressing me: on that I think I see
   my way. But I am terribly worried for fear you should be angry or
   sorry about all this. I am only kept in hope by the remembrance that
   I had the same fear when I told you of my engagement and that you
   dispelled it with a directness and generosity that I shall not
   forget. I think, my dear Mother, that we have always understood each
   other really. We are neither of us very demonstrative: we come of
   some queer stock that can always say least when it means most. But I
   do think you can trust me when I say that I think a thing really
   right, and equally honestly admit that I can hardly explain why. To
   explain why I know it is right would be to communicate the
   incommunicable, and speak of delicate and sacred things in bald
   words. The most I can say is that I know Frances like the back of my
   hand and can tell without a word from her that she has never
   recovered from a wound* and that there is only one kind of peace that
   will heal it.

[* Gertrude's death.]

   I have tried to explain myself in this letter: I can do it better
   in a letter, somehow, but I do not think I have done it very
   successfully. However, with you it does not matter and it never will
   matter, how my thoughts come tumbling out. You at least have always
   understood what I meant.

   Always your loving son,

   GILBERT.

CHAPTER XI

Married Life in London

The suburbs are commonly referred to as prosaic. That is a matter of taste. Personally I find
them intoxicating.

Introduction to Literary London.

THE WEDDING DAY drew near and the presents were pouring in.

"I feel like the young man in the Gospel," said Gilbert to Annie Firmin, "sorrowful, because
I have great possessions."

Conrad Noel married Gilbert and Frances at Kensington Parish Church on June 28, 1901. As Gilbert
knelt down the price ticket on the sole of one of his new shoes became plainly visible. Annie
caught Mrs. Chesterton's eye and they began to laugh helplessly. Annie thinks, too, that for
once in their lives Gilbert and Cecil did not argue at the Reception.

Lucian Oldershaw drove ahead to the station with the heavy luggage, put it on the train and
waited feverishly. That train went off (with the luggage), then another, and at last the happy
couple appeared. Gilbert had felt it necessary to stop on the way "in order to drink a glass
of milk in one shop and to buy a revolver with cartridges in another." The milk he drank because
in childhood his mother used to give him a glass in that shop. The revolver was for the defense
of his bride against possible dangers. They followed the luggage by a slow train.

This love of weapons, his revolver, his favourite sword-stick, remained with him all his life.
It suggested the adventures that he always bestowed on the heroes of his stories and would
himself have loved to experience. He noted in Twelve Types Scott's love of armour and of weapons
for their own sakes--the texture, the power, the beauty of a sword-hilt or a jewelled dagger.
As a child would play with these things Gilbert played with them, but they stood also in his
mind for freedom, adventure, personal responsibility, and much else that the modern world had lost.

The honeymoon was spent on the Norfolk Broads. On the way they stopped at Ipswich "and it was
like meeting a friend in a fairy-tale to find myself under the sign of the White Horse on the
first day of my honeymoon." Annie Firmin was staying in Warwick Gardens for the wedding and
afterwards. Gilbert's first letter, from the Norfolk Broads, began "I have a wife, a piece
of string, a pencil and a knife: what more can any man want on a honeymoon."

