On the wall at one end of the apartment was stretched a white canvas; in front of it was left
a small cleared space, on the edge of which, in the shadow, squatting on the floor, were four
swarthy musicians in Oriental garments, with a mandolin, a guitar, a ney, and a darabooka drum.
About this cleared space, in a crescent, knelt or sat upon the rugs a couple of rows of men
in evening dress; behind them, seated in chairs, a group of ladies, whose white shoulders and
arms and animated faces flashed out in the semi-obscurity; and in their rear stood a crowd
of spectators--beautiful young gentlemen with vacant faces and the elevated Oxford shoulders,
rosy youth already blase to all this world can offer, and gray-headed men young again in the
prospect of a new sensation. So they kneel or stand, worshipers before the shrine, expecting
the advent of the Goddess of AEsthetic Culture.

The moment has come. There is a tap on the drum, a tuning of the strings, a flash of light
from the rear of the room inundates the white canvas, and suddenly a figure is poised in the
space, her shadow cast upon the glowing background.

It is the Spanish dancer!

The apparition evokes a flutter of applause. It is a superb figure, clad in a high tight bodice
and long skirts simply draped so as to show every motion of the athletic limbs. She seems,
in this pose and light, supernaturally tall. Through her parted lips white teeth gleam, and
she smiles. Is it a smile of anticipated, triumph, or of contempt? Is it the smile of the daughter
of Herodias, or the invitation of a 'ghazeeyeh'? She pauses. Shall she surprise, or shock,
or only please? What shall the art that is older than the pyramids do for these kneeling Christians?
The drum taps, the ney pipes, the mandolin twangs, her arms are extended--the castanets clink,
a foot is thrust out, the bosom heaves, the waist trembles. What shall it be--the old serpent
dance of the Nile, or the posturing of decorous courtship when the olives are purple in the
time of the grape harvest? Her head, wreathed with coils of black hair, a red rose behind the
left ear, is thrown back. The eyes flash, there is a snakelike movement of the limbs, the music
hastens slowly in unison with the quickening pulse, the body palpitates, seems to flash invitation
like the eyes, it turns, it twists, the neck is thrust forward, it is drawn in, while the limbs
move still slowly, tentatively; suddenly the body from the waist up seems to twist round, with
the waist as a pivot, in a flash of athletic vigor, the music quickens, the arms move more
rapidly to the click of the heated castenets, the steps are more pronounced, the whole woman
is agitated, bounding, pulsing with physical excitement. It is a Maenad in an access of gymnastic
energy. Yes, it is gymnastics; it is not grace; it is scarcely alluring. Yet it is a physical
triumph. While the spectators are breathless, the fury ceases, the music dies, and the Spaniard
sinks into a chair, panting with triumph, and inclines her dark head to the clapping of hands
and the bravos. The kneelers rise; the spectators break into chattering groups; the ladies
look at the dancer with curious eyes; a young gentleman with the elevated Oxford shoulders
leans upon the arm of her chair and fans her. The pose is correct; it is the somewhat awkward
tribute of culture to physical beauty.

To be on speaking terms with the phenomenon was for the moment a distinction. The young ladies
wondered if it would be proper to go forward and talk with her.

"Why not?" said a wit. "The Duke of Donnycastle always shakes hands with the pugilists at a mill."

"It is not so bad"--the speaker was a Washington beauty in an evening dress that she would
have condemned as indecorous for the dancer it is not so bad as I--"

"Expected?" asked her companion, a sedate man of thirty-five, with the cynical air of a student
of life.

"As I feared," she added, quickly. "I have always had a curiosity to know what these Oriental
dances mean."

"Oh, nothing in particular, now. This was an exhibition dance. Of course its origin, like all
dancing, was religious. The fault I find with it is that it lacks seriousness, like the modern
exhibition of the dancing dervishes for money."

"Do you think, Mr. Mavick, that the decay of dancing is the reason our religion lacks seriousness?
We are in Lent now, you know. Does this seem to you a Lenten performance?"

"Why, yes, to a degree. Anything that keeps you up till three o'clock in the morning has some
penitential quality."

"You give me a new view, Mr. Mavick. I confess that I did not expect to assist at what New
Englanders call an 'evening meeting.' I thought Eros was the deity of the dance."

"That, Mrs. Lamon, is a vulgar error. It is an ancient form of worship. Virtue and beauty are
the same thing--the two graces."

"What a nice apothegm! It makes religion so easy and agreeable."

"As easy as gravitation."

"Dear me, Mr. Mavick, I thought this was a question of levitation. You are upsetting all my
ideas. I shall not have the comfort of repenting of this episode in Lent."

"Oh yes; you can be sorry that the dancing was not more alluring."

Meantime there was heard the popping of corks. Venetian glasses filled with champagne were
quaffed under the blessing of sparkling eyes, young girls, almond-eyed for the occasion, in
the costume of Tokyo, handed round ices, and the hum of accelerated conversation filled the studio.

"And your wife didn't come?"

"Wouldn't," replied Jack Delancy, with a little bow, before he raised his glass. And then added,
"Her taste isn't for this sort of thing."

The girl, already flushed with the wine, blushed a little--Jack thought he had never seen her
look so dazzlingly handsome--as she said, "And you think mine is?"

"Bless me, no, I didn't mean that; that is, you know"--Jack didn't exactly see his way out
of the dilemma--"Edith is a little old-fashioned; but what's the harm in this, anyway?"

"I did not say there was any," she replied, with a smile at his embarrassment. "Only I think
there are half a dozen women in the room who could do it better, with a little practice. It
isn't as Oriental as I thought it would be."

"I cannot say as to that. I know Edith thinks I've gone into the depths of the Orient. But,
on the whole, I'm glad--" Jack stopped on the verge of speaking out of his better nature.

"Now don't be rude again. I quite understand that she is not here."

The dialogue was cut short by a clapping of hands. The spectators took their places again,
the lights were lowered, the illumination was turned on the white canvas, and the dancer, warmed
with wine and adulation, took a bolder pose, and, as her limbs began to move, sang a wild Moorish
melody in a shrill voice, action and words flowing together into the passion of the daughter
of tents in a desert life. It was all vigorous, suggestive, more properly religious, Mavick
would have said, and the applause was vociferous.

More wine went about. There was another dance, and then another, a slow languid movement, half
melancholy and full of sorrow, if one might say that of a movement, for unrepented sin; a gypsy
dance this, accompanied by the mournful song of Boabdil, "The Last Sigh of the Moor." And suddenly,
when the feelings of the spectators were melted to tender regret, a flash out of all this into
a joyous defiance, a wooing of pleasure with smiling lips and swift feet, with the clash of
cymbals and the quickened throb of the drum. And so an end with the dawn of a new day.

It was not yet dawn, however, for the clocks were only striking three as the assembly, in winter
coats and soft wraps, fluttered out to its carriages, chattering and laughing, with endless
good-nights in the languages of France, Germany, and Spain.

The streets were as nearly deserted as they ever are; here and there a lumbering market-wagon
from Jersey, an occasional street-car with its tinkling bell, rarer still the rush of a trembling
train on the elevated, the voice of a belated reveler, a flitting female figure at a street
corner, the roll of a livery hack over the ragged pavement. But mainly the noise of the town
was hushed, and in the sharp air the stars, far off and uncontaminated, glowed with a pure lustre.

Farther up town it was quite still, and in one of the noble houses in the neighborhood of the
Park sat Edith Delancy, married not quite a year, listening for the roll of wheels and the
click of a night-key.

II

Everybody liked John Corlear Delancy, and this in spite of himself, for no one ever knew him
to make any effort to incur either love or hate. The handsome boy was a favorite without lifting
his eyebrows, and he sauntered through the university, picking his easy way along an elective
course, winning the affectionate regard of every one with whom he came in contact. And this
was not because he lacked quality, or was merely easy-going and negative or effeminate, for
the same thing happened to him when he went shooting in the summer in the Rockies. The cowboys
and the severe moralists of the plains, whose sedate business in life is to get the drop on
offensive persons, regarded him as a brother. It isn't a bad test of personal quality, this
power to win the loyalty of men who have few or none of the conventional virtues. These non-moral
enforcers of justice--as they understood it liked Jack exactly as his friends in the New York
clubs liked him--and perhaps the moral standard of approval of the one was as good as the other.

Jack was a very good shot and a fair rider, and in the climate of England he might have taken
first-rate rank in athletics. But he had never taken first-rate rank in anything, except good-fellowship.
He had a great many expensive tastes, which he could not afford to indulge, except in imagination.
The luxury of a racing-stable, or a yacht, or a library of scarce books bound by Paris craftsmen
was denied him. Those who account for failures in life by a man's circumstances, and not by
a lack in the man himself, which is always the secret of failure, said that Jack was unfortunate
in coming into a certain income of twenty thousand a year. This was just enough to paralyze
effort, and not enough to permit a man to expand in any direction. It is true that he was related
to millions and moved in a millionaire atmosphere, but these millions might never flow into
his bank account. They were not in hand to use, and they also helped to paralyze effort--like
black clouds of an impending shower that may pass around, but meantime keeps the watcher indoors.

The best thing that Jack Delancy ever did, for himself, was to marry Edith Fletcher. The wedding,
which took place some eight months before the advent of the Spanish dancer, was a surprise
to many, for the girl had even less fortune than Jack, and though in and of his society entirely,
was supposed to have ideals. Her family, indeed, was an old one on the island, and was prominent
long before the building of the stone bridge on Canal Street over the outlet of Collect Pond.
Those who knew Edith well detected in her that strain of moral earnestness which made the old
Fletchers such stanch and trusty citizens. The wonder was not that Jack, with his easy susceptibility
to refined beauty, should have been attracted to her, or have responded to a true instinct
of what was best for him, but that Edith should have taken up with such a perfect type of the
aimlessness of the society strata of modern life. The wonder, however, was based upon a shallow
conception of the nature of woman. It would have been more wonderful if the qualities that
endeared Jack to college friends and club men, to the mighty sportsmen who do not hesitate,
in the clubs, to devastate Canada and the United States of big game, and to the border ruffians
of Dakota, should not have gone straight to the tender heart of a woman of ideals. And when
in all history was there a woman who did not believe, when her heart went with respect for
certain manly traits, that she could inspire and lift a man into a noble life?

The silver clock in the breakfast-room was striking ten, and Edith was already seated at the
coffee-urn, when Jack appeared. She was as fresh as a rose, and greeted him with a bright smile
as he came behind her chair and bent over for the morning kiss--a ceremony of affection which,
if omitted, would have left a cloud on the day for both of them, and which Jack always declared
was simply a necessity, or the coffee would have no flavor. But when a man has picked a rose,
it is always a sort of climax which is followed by an awkward moment, and Jack sat down with
the air of a man who has another day to get through with.

"Were you amused with the dancing--this morning?"

"So, so," said Jack, sipping his coffee. "It was a stunning place for it, that studio; you'd
have liked that. The Lamons and Mavick and a lot of people from the provinces were there. The
company was more fun than the dance, especially to a fellow who has seen how good it can be
and how bad in its home."

"You have a chance to see the Spanish dancer again, under proper auspices," said Edith, without
looking up.

"How's that?"

"We are invited by Mrs. Brown--"

"The mother of the Bible class at St. Philip's?"

"Yes--to attend a charity performance for the benefit of the Female Waifs' Refuge. She is to
dance."

"Who? Mrs. Brown?"

Edith paid no attention to this impertinence. "They are to make an artificial evening at eleven
o'clock in the morning."

"They must have got hold of Mavick's notion that this dance is religious in its origin. Do
you, know if the exercises will open with prayer?"

"Nonsense, Jack. You know I don't intend to go. I shall send a small check."

"Well, draw it mild. But isn't this what I'm accused of doing--shirking my duty of personal
service by a contribution?"

"Perhaps. But you didn't have any of that shirking feeling last night, did you?"

Jack laughed, and ran round to give the only reply possible to such a gibe. These breakfast
interludes had not lost piquancy in all these months. "I'm half a mind to go to this thing.
I would, if it didn't break up my day so."

"As for instance?"

"Well, this morning I have to go up to the riding-school to see a horse--Storm; I want to try
him. And then I have to go down to Twist's and see a lot of Japanese drawings he's got over.
Do you know that the birds and other animals those beggars have been drawing, which we thought
were caricatures, are the real thing? They have eyes sharp enough to see things in motion--flying
birds and moving horses which we never caught till we put the camera on them. Awfully curious.
Then I shall step into the club a minute, and--"

"Be in at lunch? Bess is coming."

"Don't wait lunch. I've a lot to do."

Edith followed him with her eyes, a little wistfully; she heard the outer door close, and still
sat at the table, turning over the pile of notes at her plate, and thinking of many things--things
that it began to dawn upon her mind could not be done, and things of immediate urgency that
must be done. Life did not seem quite such a simple problem to her as it had looked a year
ago. That there is nothing like experiment to clear the vision is the general idea, but oftener
it is experience that perplexes. Indeed, Edith was thinking that some things seemed much easier
to her before she had tried them.

As she sat at the table with a faultless morning-gown, with a bunch of English violets in her
bosom, an artist could have desired no better subject. Many people thought her eyes her best
feature; they were large brown eyes, yet not always brown, green at times, liquid, but never
uncertain, apt to have a smile in them, yet their chief appealing characteristic was trustfulness,
a pure sort of steadfastness, that always conveyed the impression of a womanly personal interest
in the person upon whom they were fixed. They were eyes that haunted one like a remembered
strain of music. The lips were full, and the mouth was drawn in such exquisite lines that it
needed the clear-cut and emphasized chin to give firmness to its beauty. The broad forehead,
with arching eyebrows, gave an intellectual cast to a face the special stamp of which was purity.
The nose, with thin open nostrils, a little too strong for beauty, together with the chin,
gave the impression of firmness and courage; but the wonderful eyes, the inviting mouth, so
modified this that the total impression was that of high spirit and great sweetness of character.
It was the sort of face from which one might expect passionate love or unflinching martyrdom.
Her voice had a quality the memory of which lingered longer even than the expression of her
eyes; it was low, and, as one might say, a fruity voice, not quite clear, though sweet, as
if veiled in femineity. This note of royal womanhood was also in her figure, a little more
than medium in height, and full of natural grace. Somehow Edith, with all these good points,
had not the reputation of a belle or a beauty--perhaps for want of some artificial splendor--but
one could not be long in her company without feeling that she had great charm, without which
beauty becomes insipid and even commonplace, and with which the plainest woman is attractive.

Edith's theory of life, if one may so dignify the longings of a young girl, had been very simple,
and not at all such as would be selected by the heroine of a romance. She had no mission, nor
was she afflicted by that modern form of altruism which is a yearning for notoriety by conspicuous
devotion to causes and reforms quite outside her normal sphere of activity. A very sincere
person, with strong sympathy for humanity tempered by a keen perception of the humorous side
of things, she had a purpose, perhaps not exactly formulated, of making the most out of her
own life, not in any outward and shining career, but by a development of herself in the most
helpful and harmonious relations to her world. And it seemed to her, though she had never philosophized
it, that a marriage such as she believed she had made was the woman's way to the greatest happiness
and usefulness. In this she followed the dictates of a clear mind and a warm heart. If she
had reasoned about it, considering how brief life is, and how small can be any single contribution
to a better social condition, she might have felt more strongly the struggle against nature,
and the false position involved in the new idea that marriage is only a kind of occupation,
instead of an ordinance decreed in the very constitution of the human race. With the mere instinct
of femineity she saw the falseness of the assumption that the higher life for man or woman
lies in separate and solitary paths through the wilderness of this world. To an intelligent
angel, seated on the arch of the heavens, the spectacle of the latter-day pseudo-philosophic
and economic dribble about the doubtful expediency of having a wife, and the failure of marriage,
must seem as ludicrous as would a convention of birds or of flowers reasoning that the processes
of nature had continued long enough. Edith was simply a natural woman, who felt rather than
reasoned that in a marriage such as her heart approved she should make the most of her life.

But as she sat here this morning this did not seem to be so simple a matter as it had appeared.
It began to be suspected that in order to make the most of one's self it was necessary to make
the most of many other persons and things. The stream in its own channel flowed along not without
vexations, friction and foaming and dashings from bank to bank; but it became quite another
and a more difficult movement when it was joined to another stream, with its own currents and
eddies and impetuosities and sluggishness, constantly liable to be deflected if not put altogether
on another course. Edith was not putting it in this form as she turned over her notes of invitation
and appointments and engagements, but simply wondering where the time for her life was to come
in, and for Jack's life, which occupied a much larger space than it seemed to occupy in the
days before it was joined to hers. Very curious this discovery of what another's life really
is. Of course the society life must go on, that had always gone on, for what purpose no one
could tell, only it was the accepted way of disposing of time; and now there were the dozen
ways in which she was solicited to show her interest in those supposed to be less fortunate
in life than herself-the alleviation of the miseries of her own city. And with society, and
charity, and sympathy with the working classes, and her own reading, and a little drawing and
painting, for which she had some talent, what became of that comradeship with Jack, that union
of interests and affections, which was to make her life altogether so high and sweet?

This reverie, which did not last many minutes, and was interrupted by the abrupt moving away
of Edith to the writing-desk in her own room, was caused by a moment's vivid realization of
what Jack's interests in life were. Could she possibly make them her own? And if she did, what
would become of her own ideals?

III

It was indeed a busy day for Jack. Great injustice would be done him if it were supposed that
he did not take himself and his occupations seriously. His mind was not disturbed by trifles.
He knew that he had on the right sort of four-in-hand necktie, with the appropriate pin of
pear-shaped pearl, and that he carried the cane of the season. These things come by a sort
of social instinct, are in the air, as it were, and do not much tax the mind. He had to hasten
a little to keep his half-past-eleven o'clock appointment at Stalker's stables, and when he
arrived several men of his set were already waiting, who were also busy men, and had made a
little effort to come round early and assist Jack in making up his mind about the horse.

When Mr. Stalker brought out Storm, and led him around to show his action, the connoisseurs
took on a critical attitude, an attitude of judgment, exhibited not less in the poise of the
head and the serious face than in the holding of the cane and the planting of legs wide apart.
And the attitude had a refined nonchalance which professional horsemen scarcely ever attain.
Storm could not have received more critical and serious attention if he had been a cooked terrapin.
He could afford to stand this scrutiny, and he seemed to move about with the consciousness
that he knew more about being a horse than his judges.

Storm was, in fact, a splendid animal, instinct with life from his thin flaring nostril to
his small hoof; black as a raven, his highly groomed skin took the polish of ebony, and showed
the play of his powerful muscles, and, one might say, almost the nervous currents that thrilled
his fine texture. His large, bold eyes, though not wicked, flamed now and then with an energy
and excitement that gave ample notice that he would obey no master who had not stronger will
and nerve than his own. It was a tribute to Jack's manliness that, when he mounted him for
a turn in the ring, Storm seemed to recognize the fine quality of both seat and hand, and appeared
willing to take him on probation.

"He's got good points," said Mr. Herbert Albert Flick, "but I'd like a straighter back."

"I'll be hanged, though, Jack," was Mr. Mowbray Russell's comment, "if I'd ride him in the
Park before he's docked. Say what you like about action, a horse has got to have style."

"Moves easy, falls off a little too much to suit me in the quarter," suggested Mr. Pennington
Docstater, sucking the head of his cane. "How about his staying quality, Stalker?"

"That's just where he is, Mr. Docstater; take him on the road, he's a stayer for all day. Goes
like a bird. He'll take you along at the rate of nine miles in forty-five minutes as long as
you want to sit there."

"Jump?" queried little Bobby Simerton, whose strong suit at the club was talking about meets
and hunters.

"Never refused anything I put him at," replied Stalker; "takes every fence as if it was the
regular thing."

Storm was in this way entirely taken to pieces, praised and disparaged, in a way to give Stalker,
it might be inferred from his manner, a high opinion of the knowledge of these young gentlemen.
"It takes a gentleman," in fact, Stalker said, "to judge a hoss, for a good hoss is a gentleman
himself." It was much discussed whether Storm would do better for the Park or for the country,
whether it would be better to put him in the field or keep him for a roadster. It might, indeed,
be inferred that Jack had not made up his mind whether he should buy a horse for use in the
Park or for country riding. Even more than this might be inferred from the long morning's work,
and that was that while Jack's occupation was to buy a horse, if he should buy one his occupation
would be gone. He was known at the club to be looking for the right sort of a horse, and that
he knew what he wanted, and was not easily satisfied; and as long as he occupied this position
he was an object of interest to sellers and to his companions.

Perhaps Mr. Stalker understood this, for when the buyers had gone he remarked to the stable-boy,
"Mr. Delancy, he don't want to buy no hoss."

When the inspection of the horse was finished it was time for lunch, and the labors of the
morning were felt to justify this indulgence, though each of the party had other engagements,
and was too busy to waste the time. They went down to the Knickerbocker.

The lunch was slight, but its ordering took time and consideration, as it ought, for nothing
is so destructive of health and mental tone as the snatching of a mid-day meal at a lunch counter
from a bill of fare prepared by God knows whom. Mr. Russell said that if it took time to buy
a horse, it ought to take at least equal time and care to select the fodder that was to make
a human being wretched or happy. Indeed, a man who didn't give his mind to what he ate wouldn't
have any mind by-and-by to give to anything. This sentiment had the assent of the table, and
was illustrated by varied personal experience; and a deep feeling prevailed, a serious feeling,
that in ordering and eating the right sort of lunch a chief duty of a useful day had been discharged.

It must not be imagined from this, however, that the conversation was about trifles. Business
men and operators could have learned something about stocks and investments, and politicians
about city politics. Mademoiselle Vivienne, the new skirt dancer, might have been surprised
at the intimate tone in which she was alluded to, but she could have got some useful hints
in effects, for her judges were cosmopolitans who had seen the most suggestive dancing in all
parts of the world. It came out incidentally that every one at table had been "over" in the
course of the season, not for any general purpose, not as a sightseer, but to look at somebody's
stables, or to attend a wedding, or a sale of etchings, or to see his bootmaker, or for a little
shooting in Scotland, just as one might run down to Bar Harbor or Tuxedo. It was only an incident
in a busy season; and one of the fruits of it appeared to be as perfect a knowledge of the
comparative merits of all the ocean racers and captains as of the English and American stables
and the trainers. One not informed of the progress of American life might have been surprised
to see that the fad is to be American, with a sort of patronage of things and ways foreign,
especially of things British, a large continental kind of attitude, begotten of hearing much
about Western roughing it, of Alaska, of horse-breeding and fruit-raising on the Pacific, of
the Colorado River Canon. As for stuffs, well yes, London. As for style, you can't mistake
a man who is dressed in New York.

The wine was a white Riesling from California. Docstater said his attention had been called
to it by Tom Dillingham at the Union, who had a ranch somewhere out there. It was declared
to be sound and palatable; you know what you are drinking. This led to a learned discussion
of the future of American wines, and a patriotic impulse was given to the trade by repeated
orders. It was declared that in American wines lay the solution of the temperance question.
Bobby Simerton said that Burgundy was good enough for him, but Russell put him down, as he
saw the light yellow through his glass, by the emphatic affirmation that plenty of cheap American
well-made wine would knock the bottom out of all the sentimental temperance societies and shut
up the saloons, dry up all those not limited to light wines and beer. It was agreed that the
saloons would have to go.

This satisfactory conclusion was reached before the coffee came on and the cigarettes, and
the sound quality of the Riesling was emphasized by a pony of cognac.

It is fortunate when the youth of a country have an ideal. No nation is truly great without
a common ideal, capable of evoking enthusiasm and calling out its energies. And where are we
to look for this if not in the youth, and especially in those to whom fortune and leisure give
an opportunity of leadership? It is they who can inspire by their example, and by their pursuits
attract others to a higher conception of the national life. It may take the form of patriotism,
as in this country, pride in the great republic, jealousy of its honor and credit, eagerness
for its commanding position among the nations, patriotism which will show itself, in all the
ardor of believing youth, in the administration of law, in the purity of politics, in honest
local government, and in a noble aspiration for the glory of the country. It may take the form
of culture, of a desire that the republic-liable, like all self-made nations, to worship wealth-should
be distinguished not so much by a vulgar national display as by an advance in the arts, the
sciences, the education that adorns life, in the noble spirit of humanity, and in the nobler
spirit of recognition of a higher life, which will be content with no civilization that does
not tend to make the country for every citizen a better place to live in today than it was
yesterday. Happy is the country, happy the metropolis of that country, whose fortunate young
men have this high conception of citizenship!

What is the ideal of their country which these young men cherish? There was a moment--was there
not for them?--in the late war for the Union, when the republic was visible to them in its
beauty, in its peril, and in a passion of devotion they were eager--were they not?--to follow
the flag and to give their brief lives to its imperishable glory. Nothing is impossible to
a nation with an ideal like that. It was this flame that ran over Europe in the struggle of
France against a world in arms. It was this national ideal that was incarnate in Napoleon,
as every great idea that moves the world is sooner or later incarnated. What was it that we
saw in Washington on his knees at Valley Forge, or blazing with wrath at the cowardice on Monmouth?
in Lincoln entering Richmond with bowed head and infinite sorrow and yearning in his heart?
An embodiment of a great national idea and destiny.

In France this ideal burns yet like a flame, and is still evoked by a name. It is the passion
of glory, but the desire of a nation, and Napoleon was the incarnation of passion. They say
that he is not dead as others are dead, but that he may come again and ride at the head of
his legions, and strike down the enemies of France; that his bugle will call the youth from
every hamlet, that the roll of his drum will transform France into a camp, and the grenadiers
will live again and ride with him, amid hurrahs, and streaming tears, and shouts of "My Emperor!
Oh, my Emperor!" Is it only a legend? But the spirit is there; not a boy but dreams of it,
not a girl but knots the thought in with her holiday tricolor. That is to have an abiding ideal,
and patiently to hold it, in isolation, in defeat, even in an overripe civilization.

We believe--do we not?--in other triumphs than those of the drum and the sword. Our aspirations
for the republic are for a nobler example of human society than the world has yet seen. Happy
is the country, and the metropolis of the country, whose youth, gilded only by their virtues,
have these aspirations.

When the party broke up, the street lamps were beginning to twinkle here and there, and Jack
discovered to his surprise that the Twiss business would have to go over to another day. It
was such a hurrying life in New York. There was just time for a cup of tea at Mrs. Trafton's.
Everybody dropped in there after five o'clock, when the duties of the day were over, with the
latest news, and to catch breath before rushing into the program of the evening.

There were a dozen ladies in the drawing-room when Jack entered, and his first impression was
that the scream of conversation would be harder to talk against than a Wagner opera; but he
presently got his cup of tea, and found a snug seat in the chimney-corner by Miss Tavish; indeed,
they moved to it together, and so got a little out of the babel. Jack thought the girl looked
even prettier in her walking-dress than when he saw her at the studio; she had style, there
was no doubt about that; and then, while there was no invitation in her manner, one felt that
she was a woman to whom one could easily say things, and who was liable at any moment to say
things interesting herself.

"Is this your first appearance since last night, Mr. Delancy?"

"Oh no; I've been racing about on errands all day. It is very restful to sit down by a calm
person."

"Well, I never shut my eyes till nine o'clock. I kept seeing that Spanish woman whirl around
and contort, and--do you mind my telling you?--I couldn't just help it, I" (leaning forward
to Jack) "got up and tried it before the glass. There! Are you shocked?"

"Not so much shocked as excluded," Jack dared to say. "But do you think--".

"Yes, I know. There isn't anything that an American girl cannot do. I've made up my mind to
try it. You'll see."

"Will I?"

"No, you won't. Don't flatter yourself. Only girls. I don't want men around."

"Neither do I," said Jack, honestly.

Miss Tavish laughed. "You are too forward, Mr. Delancy. Perhaps some time, when we have learned,
we will let in a few of you, to look in at the door, fifty dollars a ticket, for some charity.
I don't see why dancing isn't just as good an accomplishment as playing the harp in a Greek dress."

"Nor do I; I'd rather see it. Besides, you've got Scripture warrant for dancing off the heads
of people. And then it is such a sweet way of doing a charity. Dancing for the East Side is
the best thing I have heard yet."

"You needn't mock. You won't when you find out what it costs you."

"What are you two plotting?" asked Mrs. Trafton, coming across to the fireplace.