A SHORT HISTORY
                                  OF
                              PITTSBURGH
                              1758-1908

                            A SHORT HISTORY
                                  OF
                              PITTSBURGH
                              1758-1908

                                 BY
                         SAMUEL HARDEN CHURCH

                AUTHOR OF "OLIVER CROMWELL: A HISTORY,"
           "PENRUDDOCK OF THE WHITE LAMBS," "JOHN MARMADUKE,"
                        "BEOWULF: A POEM," ETC.

                              PRINTED AT
                          THE DE VINNE PRESS
                              NEW YORK
                                1908

                         Copyright, 1908, by
                         SAMUEL HARDEN CHURCH

CONTENTS

             PAGE
HISTORICAL     13

INDUSTRIAL     79

INTELLECTUAL   89

INDEX         127

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

George Washington, the first Pittsburgher  Frontispiece
                                                  PAGE
William Pitt, Earl of Chatham                       26

Plan of Fort Pitt                                   31

Henry Bouquet                                       32

Block House of Fort Pitt. Built in 1764             33

Anthony Wayne                                       41

Conestoga wagon                                     44

Stage-coach                                         46

Over the mountains in 1839; canal boat being
  hauled over the portage road                      47

View of Old Pittsburgh, 1817                        50

Pittsburgh, showing the junction of the
  Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers                  80

The Pittsburgh Country Club                         88

Panther Hollow Bridge, Schenley Park                93

Entrance to Highland Park                           97

The Carnegie Institute                             101

Court-house                                        104

Zoölogical Garden in Highland Park                 107

Carnegie Technical Schools (uncompleted)           111

Margaret Morrison Carnegie School for Women        115

Design of University of Pittsburgh                 119

Allegheny Observatory, University of Pittsburgh    123

Phipps Conservatory, Schenley Park                 125

PREFACE

Some ten years ago I contributed to a book on "Historic Towns," published by G. P. Putnam's
Sons, of New York and London, a brief historical sketch of Pittsburgh. The approach of the
one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the founding of Pittsburgh, and the elaborate celebrations
planned in connection therewith, led to many requests that I would reprint the sketch in its
own covers as a souvenir of the occasion. Finding it quite inadequate for permanent preservation
in its original form, I have, after much research and painstaking labor, rewritten the entire
work, adding many new materials, and making of it what I believe to be a complete, though a
short, history of our city. The story has developed itself into three natural divisions: historical,
industrial, and intellectual, and the record will show that under either one of these titles
Pittsburgh is a notable, and under all of them, an imperial, city.

S. H. C.

Lake Placid Club,
  Adirondack Mountains,
    August 25, 1908. Washington was then twenty-one years old. He had by that time
written his precocious one hundred and ten maxims of civility and good
behavior; had declined to be a midshipman in the British navy; had made
his only sea-voyage to Barbados; had surveyed the estates of Lord
Fairfax, going for months into the forest without fear of savage Indians
or wild beasts; and was now a major of Virginia militia. In pursuance of
the claim of Virginia that she owned that part of Pennsylvania in which
Pittsburgh is situated, Washington came there as the agent of Governor
Dinwiddie to treat with the Indians. With an eye alert for the dangers
of the wilderness, and with Christopher Gist beside him, the young
Virginian pushed his cautious way to "The Point" of land where the
confluence of the Monongahela and Allegheny rivers forms the Ohio. That,
he declared, with clear military instinct, was the best site for a fort;
and he rejected the promontory two miles below, which the Indians had
recommended for that purpose. Washington made six visits to the vicinity
of Pittsburgh, all before his presidency, and on three of them (1753,
1758, and 1770), he entered the limits of the present city. At the time
of despatching the army to suppress the whisky insurrection, while he
was President, in 1794, he came toward Pittsburgh as far as Bedford, and
then, after planning the march, returned to Philadelphia. His contact
with the place was, therefore, frequent, and his information always very
complete. There is a tradition, none the less popular because it cannot
be proved, which ascribes to Washington the credit of having suggested
the name of Pittsburgh to General Forbes when the place was captured
from the French. However this may be, we do know that Washington was
certainly present when the English flag was hoisted and the city named
Pittsburgh, on Sunday, November 26, 1758. And at that moment Pittsburgh
became a chief bulwark of the British Empire in America.

II

As early as 1728, a daring hunter or trader found the Indians at the head waters of the Ohio,--among
them the Delawares, Shawanese, Mohicans, and Iroquois,--whither they tracked the bear from
their village of Logstown, seventeen miles down the river. They also employed the country roundabout
as a highway for their march to battle against other tribes, and against each other. At that
time France and England were disputing for the new continent. France, by right of her discovery
of the Mississippi, claimed all lands drained by that river and its tributaries, a contention
which would naturally plant her banner upon the summit of the Alleghany Mountains. England,
on the other hand, claimed everything from ocean shore to ocean shore. This situation produced
war, and Pittsburgh became the strategic key of the great Middle West. The French made early
endeavors to win the allegiance of the Indians, and felt encouraged to press their friendly
overtures because they usually came among the red men for trading or exploration, while the
English invariably seized and occupied their lands. In 1731 some French settlers did attempt
to build a group of houses at Pittsburgh, but the Indians compelled them to go away. The next
year the governor of Pennsylvania summoned two Indian chiefs from Pittsburgh to say why they
had been going to see the French governor at Montreal; and they gave answer that he had sent
for them only to express the hope that both English and French traders might meet at Pittsburgh
and carry on trade amicably. The governor of Pennsylvania sought to induce the tribes to draw
themselves farther east, where they might be made to feel the hand of authority, but Sassoonan,
their chief, forbade them to stir. An Iroquois chief who joined his entreaties to those of
the governor was soon afterward killed by some Shawanese braves, but they were forced to flee
into Virginia to escape the vengeance of his tribe.

Louis Celeron, a French officer, made an exploration of the country contiguous to Pittsburgh
in 1747, and formally enjoined the governor of Pennsylvania not to occupy the ground, as France
claimed its sovereignty. A year later the Ohio Company was formed, with a charter ceding an
immense tract of land for sale and development, including Pittsburgh. This corporation built
some storehouses at Logstown to facilitate their trade with the Indians, which were captured
by the French, together with skins and commodities valued at 20,000 francs; and the purposes
of the company were never accomplished.

III

Washington's first visit to Pittsburgh occurred in November, 1753, while he was on his way
to the French fort at Leboeuff. He was carrying a letter from the Ohio Company to Contrecoeur,
protesting against the plans of the French commander in undertaking to establish a line of
forts to reach from Lake Erie to the mouth of the Ohio River. The winter season was becoming
very severe, in despite of which Washington and Gist were forced to swim with their horses
across the Allegheny River. On the way they fell in with a friendly Indian, Keyashuta, a Seneca
chief, who showed them much kindness, and for whom a suburban town, Guyasuta, is named.

Leaving Pittsburgh, Washington and Gist proceeded in a northeasterly direction, and after a
day's journey they came upon an Indian settlement, and were constrained by the tribe to remain
there for three days. A group of these Indians accompanied the two travelers to the French
fort, and on the journey a large number of bear and deer were killed. At Leboeuff Washington
received from the French commander a very satisfactory reply. On the trip back the two pioneers
encountered almost insupportable hardships. Lacking proper food, their horses died, so that
they were forced to push forward in canoes, often finding it necessary, when the creeks were
frozen, to carry their craft for long stretches overland. When Venango was reached, Washington,
whose clothes were now in tatters, procured an Indian costume, and he and Gist continued their
way on foot, accompanied by an Indian guide. At this point an illustrious career was put in
deadly peril, for on the second day of his escort, the treacherous guide deliberately fired
his gun at Washington when standing only a few feet away from him. Bad marksmanship saved the
intended victim, and Gist started to kill the Indian on the spot; but Washington, patient then
as always, sent the savage away, giving him provisions to last until he could reach his tribe.
But an apprehension of further trouble from the friends of the discomfited guide impelled the
two men to travel all that night and the next day, although Washington was suffering acute
agony from his frosted feet. While recrossing the Allegheny River on a rude raft, Washington
fell into the icy waters and was saved by Gist from drowning only after the greatest efforts
had been employed to rescue him. Reaching Herr's Island (within the present city limits), they
built a fire and camped there for the night, but in the morning Gist's hands were frozen. The
bitter cold had now solidified the river and the two wanderers passed over it on foot. By noon
they had reached the home of John Frazier, at Turtle Creek, where they were given clothes and
fresh supplies. The journey was completed in three more days, and on receiving the reply of
Contrecoeur, the English began their preparations for sending troops to Pittsburgh.

IV

As soon as Washington's advice as to the location of the fort was received, Captain William
Trent was despatched to Pittsburgh with a force of soldiers and workmen, packhorses, and materials,
and he began in all haste to erect a stronghold. The French had already built forts on the
northern lakes, and they now sent Captain Contrecoeur down the Allegheny with one thousand
French, Canadians, and Indians, and eighteen pieces of cannon, in a flotilla of sixty bateaux
and three hundred canoes. Trent had planted himself in Pittsburgh on February 17, 1754, a date
important because it marks the first permanent white settlement there. But his work had been
retarded alike by the small number of his men and the severity of the winter; and when Contrecoeur
arrived in April, the young subaltern who commanded in Trent's absence surrendered the unfinished
works, and was permitted to march away with his thirty-three men. The French completed the
fort and named it Duquesne, in honor of the governor of Canada; and they held possession of
it for four years.

Immediately on the loss of this fort, Virginia sent a force under Washington to retake it.
Washington surprised a French detachment near Great Meadows, and killed their commander, Jumonville.
When a larger expedition came against him, he put up a stockade near the site of Uniontown,
naming it Fort Necessity, which he was compelled to yield on terms permitting him to march
away with the honors of war.

V

The next year (1755) General Edward Braddock came over with two regiments of British soldiers,
and after augmenting his force with Colonial troops and a few Indians, began his fatal march
upon Fort Duquesne. Braddock's testy disposition, his consuming egotism, his contempt for the
Colonial soldiers, and his stubborn adherence to military maxims that were inapplicable to
the warfare of the wilderness, alienated the respect and confidence of the American contingent,
robbed him of an easy victory, and cost him his life. Some of his English staff-officers urged
him to send the rangers in advance and to deploy his Indians as scouts, but he rejected their
prudent suggestions with a sneer. On July 9 his army, comprising twenty-two hundred soldiers
and one hundred and fifty Indians, was marching down the south bank of the Monongahela. The
variant color and fashion of the expedition,--the red-coated regulars, the blue-coated Americans,
the naval detachment, the rangers in deerskin shirts and leggins, the savages half-naked and
befeathered, the glint of sword and gun in the hot daylight, the long wagon train, the lumbering
cannon, the drove of bullocks, the royal banner and the Colonial gonfalon,--the pomp and puissance
of it all composed a spectacle of martial splendor unseen in that country before. On the right
was the tranquil river, and on the left the trackless wilderness whence the startled deer sprang
into a deeper solitude. At noon the expedition crossed the river and pressed on toward Fort
Duquesne, eight miles below, expectant of victory. What need to send out scouts when the king's
troops are here? Let young George Washington and the rest urge it all they may; the thing is
beneath the dignity of his majesty's general.

Meanwhile, all was not tranquil at the French fort. Surrender was talked of, but Captain Beaujeu
determined to lead a force out to meet the approaching army. How insignificant were the armed
forces with which the two empires were now challenging each other for the splendid prize of
a new world! Beaujeu, gaily clad in a fringed hunting dress, intrepidly pressed on until he
came in sight of the English invaders. As soon as the alert French commander felt the hot breath
of his foe he waved his hat and his faithful followers disappeared behind rocks and trees as
if the very earth had swallowed them.

The unsuspecting English came on. But here, when they have crossed, is a level plain, elevated
but a few feet above the surface of the river, extending nearly half a mile landwards, and
then gradually ascending into thickly wooded hills, with Fort Duquesne beyond. The troops in
front had crossed the plain and plunged into the road through the forest for a hundred feet
when a heavy discharge of musketry and arrows was poured upon them, which wrought in them a
consternation all the greater because they could see no foe anywhere. They shot at random,
and not without effect, for when Beaujeu fell the Canadians began to flee and the Indians quailed
in their covers before the cannon fire of the English. But the French fighters were rallied
back to their hidden recesses, and they now kept up an incessant and destructive fire. In this
distressing situation the English fell back into the plain. Braddock rode in among them, and
he and his officers persistently endeavored to rally them, but without success. The Colonial
troops adopted the Indian method, and each man fought for himself behind a tree. This was forbidden
by Braddock, who attempted to form his men in platoons and columns, making their slaughter
inevitable. The French and Indians, concealed in the ravines and behind trees, kept up a cruel
and deadly fire, until the British soldiers lost all presence of mind and began to shoot each
other and their own officers, and hundreds were thus slain. The Virginia companies charged
gallantly up a hill with a loss of but three men, but when they reached the summit the British
soldiery, mistaking them for the enemy, fired upon them, killing fifty out of eighty men. The
Colonial troops then resumed the Indian fashion of fighting from behind trees, which provoked
Braddock, who had had five horses killed under him in three hours, to storm at them and strike
them with his sword. At this moment he was fatally wounded, and many of his men now fled away
from the hopeless action, not waiting to hear their general's fainting order to retreat. Washington
had had two horses killed and received three bullets through his coat. Being the only mounted
officer who was not disabled, he drew up the troops still on the field, directed their retreat,
maintaining himself at the rear with great coolness and courage, and brought away his wounded
general. Sixty-four British and American officers, and nearly one thousand privates, were killed
or wounded in this battle, while the total French and Indian loss was not over sixty. A few
prisoners captured by the Indians were brought to Pittsburgh and burnt at the stake. Four days
after the fight Braddock died, exclaiming to the last, "Who would have thought it!"

VI

Despondency seized the English settlers after Braddock's defeat. But two years afterward William
Pitt became prime minister, and he thrilled the nation with his appeal to protect the Colonies
against France and the savages.

William Pitt, the great Earl of Chatham, the man for whom our city is named, was one of the
most indomitable characters in the statesmanship of modern times. Born in November, 1708, he
was educated at Eton and at Oxford, then traveled in France and Italy, and was elected to Parliament
when twenty-seven years old. His early addresses were not models either of force or logic,
but the fluent speech and many personal attractions of the young orator instantly caught the
attention of the people, who always listened to him with favor; and it was not long before
his constant participation in public affairs developed the splendid talents which he possessed.
Wayward and affected in little things, Pitt attacked the great problems of government with
the bold confidence of a master spirit, impressing the clear genius of his leadership upon
the yearning heart of England in every emergency of peace or war. Too great to be consistent,
he never hesitated to change his tactics or his opinion when the occasion developed the utility
of another course. Ordinary men have been more faithful to asserted principles, but no statesman
more frequently departed from asserted principles to secure achievements which redounded to
the honor of the nation. During the thirty years in which Pitt exercised the magic spell of
his eloquence and power over the English Parliament, the stakes for which he contended against
the world were no less than the dominion of North America and of India. In the pursuit of these
policies he fought Spain and subdued her armies. He subsidized the king of Prussia to his interests.
He destroyed the navy of France and wrested from her the larger part of her possessions beyond
sea. Having always a clear conception of the remotest aim of national aspiration, he was content
to leave the designing of operations in detail to the humbler servants of the government, reserving
to himself the mighty concentration of his powers upon the general purpose for which the nation
was striving. The king trusted him, the Commons obeyed him, the people adored him and called
him the Great Commoner. He was wise, brave, sincere, tolerant, and humane; and no man could
more deserve the honor of having named for him a city which was destined to become rich and
famous, keeping his memory in more enduring fame than bronze or marble.

VII

Pitt's letters inspired the Americans with new hope, and he promised to send them British troops
and to supply their own militia with arms, ammunition, tents, and provisions at the king's
charge. He sent twelve thousand soldiers from England, which were joined to a Colonial force
aggregating fifty thousand men, the most formidable army yet seen in the new world. The plan
of campaign embraced three expeditions: the first against Louisburg, in the island of Cape
Breton, which was successful; the second against Ticonderoga, which succeeded after a defeat;
and the third against Fort Duquesne. General Forbes, born at Dunfermline (whence have come
others to Pittsburgh), commanded this expedition, comprising about seven thousand men. The
militia from Virginia, North Carolina, and Maryland was led by Washington, whose independent
spirit led the testy Scotchman, made irritable by a malady which was soon to cause his death,
to declare that Washington's "behavior about the roads was no ways like a soldier." But we
cannot believe that the young Virginian was moved by any motive but the public good. On September
12, 1758, Major Grant, a Highlander, led an advance guard of eight hundred and fifty men to
a point one mile from the fort, which is still called Grant's Hill, on which the court-house
now stands, where he rashly permitted himself to be surrounded and attacked by the French and
Indians, half his force being killed or wounded, and himself slain. Washington followed soon
after, and opened a road for the advance of the main body under Forbes. Fort Frontenac, on
Lake Ontario, had just been taken by General Amherst, with the result that supplies for Fort
Duquesne were cut off. When, therefore, Captain Ligneris, the French commandant, learned of
the advance of a superior force, having no hope of reinforcements, he blew up the fort, set
fire to the adjacent buildings, and drew his garrison away.

On Saturday, November 25, 1758, amidst a fierce snowstorm, the English took possession of the
place, and Colonel Armstrong, in the presence of Forbes and Washington, hauled up the puissant
banner of Great Britain, while cannons boomed and the exulting victors cheered. On the next
day, General Forbes wrote to Governor Denny from "Fort Duquesne, now Pittsburgh,[A] the 26th
of November, 1758," and this was the first use of that name. On this same Sunday the Rev. Mr.
Beatty, a Presbyterian chaplain, preached a sermon in thanksgiving for the superiority of British
arms,--the first Protestant service in Pittsburgh. The French had had a Roman Catholic chaplain,
Father Baron, during their occupancy. On the next day Forbes wrote to Pitt with a vision of
prophecy as follows:

     PITTSBOURGH, 27th Novem'r, 1758.

     Sir,

     I do myself the Honour of acquainting you that it has pleased God
     to crown His Majesty's Arms with Success over all His Enemies upon
     the Ohio, by my having obliged the enemy to burn and abandon Fort
     Du Quesne, which they effectuated on the 25th:, and of which I
     took possession next day, the Enemy having made their Escape down
     the River towards the Missisippi in their Boats, being abandoned
     by their Indians, whom I had previously engaged to leave them, and
     who now seem all willing and ready to implore His Majesty's most
     Gracious Protection. So give me leave to congratulate you upon this
     great Event, of having totally expelled the French from this
     prodigious tract of Country, and of having reconciled the various
     tribes of Indians inhabiting it to His Majesty's Government.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I have used the freedom of giving your name to Fort Du Quesne, as I
     hope it was in some measure the being actuated by your spirits that
     now makes us Masters of the place.... These dreary deserts will
     soon be the richest and most fertile of any possest by the British
     in No. America. I have the honour to be with great regard and
     Esteem Sir,

     Your most obed't. & most hum'le. serv't.

     JO: FORBES.

[Footnote A: Local controversialists should note that the man who named the city spelt it with
the final h.]

VIII

As a place of urgent shelter the English proceeded to build a new fort about two hundred yards
from the site of Fort Duquesne, which is traditionally known as the first Fort Pitt, and was
probably so called by the garrison, although the letters written from there during the next
few months refer to it as "the camp at Pittsburgh." This stronghold cut off French transportation
to the Mississippi by way of the Ohio River, and the only remaining route, by way of the Great
Lakes, was soon afterward closed by the fall of Fort Niagara. The fall of Quebec, with the
death of the two opposing generals, Montcalm and Wolfe, and the capture of Montreal, ended
the claims of France to sovereignty in the new world.

The new fort being found too small, General Stanwix built a second Fort Pitt, much larger and
stronger, designed for a garrison of one thousand men. The Indians viewed the new-comers with
suspicion, but Colonel Henry Bouquet assured them, with diplomatic tergiversation, that, "We
have not come here to take possession of your country in a hostile manner, as the French did
when they came among you, but to open a large and extensive trade with you and all other nations
of Indians to the westward." A redoubt (the "Blockhouse"), built by Colonel Bouquet in 1764,
still stands, in a very good state of preservation, being cared for by the Daughters of the
American Revolution. The protection of the garrison naturally attracted a few traders, merchants,
and pioneers to Pittsburgh, and a permanent population began to grow.

But the indigenous race continued to resent the extension of white encroachment; and they formed
a secret confederacy under Pontiac, the renowned Ottawa chief, who planned a simultaneous attack
on all the white frontier posts. This uprising was attended by atrocious cruelties at many
of the points attacked, but we may take note here of the movement only as it affected Pittsburgh.
At the grand council held by the tribes, a bundle of sticks had been given to every tribe,
each bundle containing as many sticks as there were days intervening before the deadly assault
should begin. One stick was to be drawn from the bundle every day until but one remained, which
was to signal the outbreak for that day. This was the best calendar the barbarian mind could
devise. At Pittsburgh, a Delaware squaw who was friendly to the whites had stealthily taken
out three of the sticks, thus precipitating the attack on Fort Pitt three days in advance of
the time appointed.

The last stick was reached on June 22, 1763, and the Delawares and Shawanese began the assault
in the afternoon, under Simon Ecuyer. The people of Pittsburgh took shelter in the fort, and
held out while waiting for reinforcements. Colonel Bouquet hurried forward a force of five
hundred men, but they were intercepted at Bushy Run, where a bloody battle was fought. Bouquet
had fifty men killed and sixty wounded, but inflicted a much greater loss on his savage foes
and gained the fort, relieving the siege. As soon as Bouquet could recruit his command, he
moved down the Ohio, attacked the Indians, liberated some of their prisoners, and taught the
red men to respect the power that controlled at Pittsburgh.

In 1768 the Indians ceded their lands about Pittsburgh to the Colonies, and civilization was
then free to spread over them. In 1774 a land office was opened in Pittsburgh by Governor Dunmore,
and land warrants were granted on payment of two shillings and six pence purchase money, at
the rate of ten pounds per one hundred acres.

IX

Washington made his last visit to Pittsburgh in October, 1770, when, on his way to the Kanawha
River, he stopped here for several days, and lodged with Samuel Semple, the first innkeeper,
whose hostelry stood, and still stands, at the corner of Water and Ferry Streets. This house
was later known as the Virginian Hotel, and for many years furnished entertainment to those
early travelers. The building, erected in 1764 by Colonel George Morgan, is now nearly one
hundred and forty years old, and is still devoted to public hospitality, but the character
of its patronage has changed from George Washington to the deck roysterers who lodge there
between their trips on the river packets. At the time of Washington's visit the lower story
of the house was divided into three rooms, two facing on Ferry Street, and the third, a large
room, on Water Street, and in this latter room was placed, in the year of Washington's stop
there, the first billiard table ever brought to Pittsburgh. The mahogany steps from the first
to the second floors, which were once the pride of the place, are still in the house.[B] According
to Washington's journal, there were in Pittsburgh in 1770 twenty houses situated on Water Street,
facing the Monongahela River. These were occupied by traders and their families. The population
at that time is estimated at one hundred and twenty-six men, women, and children, besides a
garrison consisting of two companies of British troops.

[Footnote B: On going again to look at this house, which I have seen many times, I find that
it was recently demolished to make room for railway improvements.]

In October, 1772, Fort Pitt was ordered abandoned. The works about Pittsburgh, from first to
last, had cost the British Crown some three hundred thousand dollars, but the salvage on the
stone, brick, and iron of the existing redoubts amounted to only two hundred and fifty dollars.
The Blockhouse was repaired and occupied for a time by Dr. John Connelly; and during the Revolution
it was constantly used by our Colonial troops.

X

With the French out of the country, and with William Pitt out of office and incapacitated by
age, the Colonies began to feel the oppression of a British policy which British statesmen
and British historians to-day most bitterly condemn. America's opposition to tyranny found
its natural expression in the Battle of Lexington, April 19, 1775. The fires of patriotism
leapt through the continent and the little settlement at Pittsburgh was quickly aflame with
the national spirit. On May 16th a convention was held at Pittsburgh, which resolved that

     This committee have the highest sense of the spirited behavior of
     their brethren in New England, and do most cordially approve of
     their opposing the invaders of American rights and privileges to
     the utmost extreme, and that each member of this committee,
     respectively, will animate and encourage their neighborhood to
     follow the brave example.

No foreign soldiers were sent over the mountains to Pittsburgh, but a more merciless foe, who
would attack and harass with remorseless cruelty, was impressed into the English service, despite
the horrified protests of some of her wisest statesmen. American treaties with the Indians
had no force against the allurements of foreign gold, and under this unholy alliance men were
burnt at the stake, women were carried away, and cabins were destroyed.

With the aim of regaining the friendship of the Indians, Congress appointed commissioners who
met the tribes at Pittsburgh; and Colonel George Morgan, Indian agent, writes to John Hancock,
November 8, 1776:

     I have the happiness to inform you that the cloud that threatened
     to break over us is likely to disperse. The Six Nations, with the
     Muncies, Delawares, Shawanese, and Mohicans, who have been
     assembled here with their principal chiefs and warriors to the
     number of 644, have given the strongest assurance of their
     determination to preserve inviolate the peace and neutrality with
     the United States.

These amicable expectations were not realized, and General Edward Hand came to Pittsburgh the
next year and planned an expedition against the Indians. Colonel Broadhead took out Hand's
expedition in the summer and burned the Indian towns.

The depreciation of paper currency, or Continental money, had by this time brought the serious
burden of high prices upon the people. The traders, who demanded apparently exorbitant rates
for their goods, were denounced in public meetings at Pittsburgh as being "now commonly known
by the disgraceful epithet of speculators, of more malignant natures than the savage Mingoes
in the wilderness." This hardship grew in severity until the finances were put upon a more
stable basis.

In 1781, there was demoralization and mutiny at Fort Pitt, and General William Irvine was put
in command. His firm hand soon restored the garrison to obedience. The close of the war with
Great Britain in that year was celebrated by General Irvine by the issue of an order at the
fort, November 6, 1781, requiring all, as a sailor would say, "to splice the mainbrace." This
order read as follows:

     The commissioners will issue a gill of whisky, extraordinary, to
     the non-commissioned officers and privates, upon this joyful
     occasion.

The Penn family had purchased the Pittsburgh region from the Indians in 1768, and they would
offer none of it for sale until 1783. Up to this time they had held the charter to Pennsylvania;
but as they had maintained a steadfast allegiance to the mother country, the general assembly
annulled their title, except to allow them to retain the ownership of various manors throughout
the State, embracing half a million acres.

In order to relieve the people of Pittsburgh from going to Greensburg to the court-house in
their sacred right of suing and being sued, the general assembly erected Allegheny County out
of parts of Westmoreland and Washington Counties, September 24, 1788. This county originally
comprised, in addition to its present limits, what are now Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Crawford,
Erie, Mercer, Venango, and Warren Counties. The Act required that the court-house and jail
should be located in Allegheny (just across the river from Pittsburgh), but as there was no
protection against Indians there, an amendment established Pittsburgh as the county seat. The
first court was held at Fort Pitt; and the next day a ducking-stool was erected for the district,
at "The Point" in the three rivers.

In 1785, the dispute between Virginia and Pennsylvania for the possession of Pittsburgh was
settled by the award of a joint commission in favor of Pennsylvania.

A writer says that in 1786 Pittsburgh contained thirty-six log houses, one stone, and one frame
house, and five small stores. Another records that the population "is almost entirely Scots
and Irish, who live in log houses." A third says of these log houses: "Now and then one had
assumed the appearance of neatness and comfort."

The first newspaper, the Pittsburgh "Gazette," was established July 29, 1786. A mail route
to Philadelphia, by horseback, was adopted in the same year. On September 29, 1787, the Legislature
granted a charter to the Pittsburgh Academy, a school that has grown steadily in usefulness
and power as the Western University of Pennsylvania, and which has in this year (July 11, 1908)
appropriately altered its name to University of Pittsburgh.

In 1791, the Indians became vindictive and dangerous, and General Arthur St. Clair, with a
force of twenty-three hundred men, was sent down the river to punish them. Neglecting President
Washington's imperative injunction to avoid a surprise, he led his command into an ambush and
lost half of it in the most disastrous battle with the redskins since the time of Braddock.
In the general alarm that ensued, Fort Pitt being in a state of decay, a new fort was built
in Pittsburgh at Ninth and Tenth Streets and Penn Avenue,--a stronghold that included bastions,
blockhouses, barracks, etc., and was named Fort Lafayette. General Anthony Wayne was then selected
to command another expedition against the savages, and he arrived in Pittsburgh in June, 1792.
After drilling his troops and making preparations for two years, in the course of which he
erected several forts in the West, including Fort Defiance and Fort Wayne, he fought the Indians
and crushed their strength and spirit. On his return a lasting peace was made with them, and
there were no further raids about Pittsburgh.

XI

The whisky insurrection demands a brief reference. Whisky seems to be a steady concomitant
of civilization. As soon as the white settlers had planted themselves securely at Pittsburgh,
they made requisition on Philadelphia for six thousand kegs of flour and three thousand kegs
of whisky--a disproportion as startling as Falstaff's intolerable deal of sack to one half-penny-worth
of bread. Congress, in 1791, passed an excise law to assist in paying the war debt. The measure
was very unpopular, and its operation was forcibly resisted, particularly in Pittsburgh, which
was noted then, as now, for the quantity and quality of its whisky. There were distilleries
on nearly every stream emptying into the Monongahela. The time and circumstances made the tax
odious. The Revolutionary War had just closed, the pioneers were in the midst of great Indian
troubles, and money was scarce, of low value, and very hard to obtain. The people of the new
country were unused to the exercise of stringent laws. The progress of the French Revolution
encouraged the settlers to account themselves oppressed by similar tyrannies, against which
some of them persuaded themselves similar resistance should be made. Genêt, the French demagogue,
was sowing sedition everywhere. Lafayette's participation in the French Revolution gave it
in America, where he was deservedly beloved, a prestige which it could never have gained for
itself. Distillers who paid the tax were assaulted; some of them were tarred and feathered;
others were taken into the forest and tied to trees; their houses and barns were burned; their
property was carried away or destroyed. Several thousand insurgents assembled at Braddock's
Field, and marched on Pittsburgh, where the citizens gave them food and submitted to a reign
of terror. Then President Washington sent an army of fifteen thousand troops against them,
and they melted away, as a mob will ever do when the strong arm of government smites it without
fear or respect.

XII

It was not long after the close of the Revolutionary War before Pittsburgh was recognized as
the natural gateway of the Atlantic seaboard to the West and South, and the necessity for an
improved system of transportation became imperative. The earliest method of transportation
through the American wilderness required the eastern merchants to forward their goods in Conestoga
wagons to Shippensburg and Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, and Hagerstown, Maryland, and thence
to Pittsburgh on packhorses, where they were exchanged for Pittsburgh products, and these in
turn were carried by boat to New Orleans, where they were exchanged for sugar, molasses, and
similar commodities, which were carried through the gulf and along the coast to Baltimore and
Philadelphia. For passenger travel the stage-coach furnished the most luxurious method then known.

The people of Pennsylvania had given considerable attention to inland improvements and as early
as 1791 they began to formulate the daring project of constructing a canal system from Philadelphia
to Pittsburgh, with a portage road over the crest of the Alleghany Mountains. In 1825, the
governor appointed commissioners for making surveys, certain residents of Pittsburgh being
chosen on the board, and in 1826 (February 25th) the Legislature passed an act authorizing
the commencement of work on the canal at the expense of the State. The western section was
completed and the first boat entered Pittsburgh on November 10, 1829. Subsequent acts provided
for the various eastern sections, including the building of the portage railroad over the mountains,
and by April 16, 1834, a through line was in operation from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh. The
termini of the road were Hollidaysburg, 1,398 feet below the mountain summit, and Johnstown,
1,771 feet below the summit. The boats were taken from the water like amphibious monsters and
hauled up the ten inclined planes by stationary engines. The total cost of the canal and portage
railroad was about ten million dollars, and the entire system was sold to the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company in 1857 (June 25th) for $7,500,000. The importance of canal transportation
in the popular mind is shown by the fact that in 1828, when the Pennsylvania Legislature granted
a charter to the Pennsylvania and Ohio Railroad Company (which never constructed its road),
the act stated that the purpose of the railroad was to connect Pittsburgh with the canal at
Massillon, Ohio. The railroad quickly superseded the canal, however, and when men perceived
that the mountains could be conquered by a portage road, it was a natural step to plan the
Pennsylvania and Baltimore and Ohio railroads on a system of easy grades, so that all obstacles
of height and distance were annihilated. The Pennsylvania Railroad was incorporated April 13,
1846, and completed its roadway from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh February 15, 1854. The canal
was for a time operated by the Pennsylvania Canal Company in the interest of the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, but its use was gradually abandoned. The division from Pittsburgh to Johnstown
ceased to be operated in 1864, and that portion which was in the Juniata Valley was used until
1899, while the portion lying along the Susquehanna River was operated until 1900.[C]

[Footnote C: There is an interesting relief map of the portage railroad of the Pennsylvania
Canal in the Carnegie Museum.]

Other railroads came as they were needed. The Baltimore and Ohio received a charter from the
State of Maryland on February 28, 1827, but did not reach Pittsburgh until December 12, 1860,
when its Pittsburgh and Connellsville branch was opened. The Ohio and Pennsylvania Railroad
was built into Pittsburgh July 4, 1851, and became part of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago
Railway in 1856, that line reaching Chicago in 1859. The Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago and
St. Louis Railway (the "Pan Handle") was opened between Pittsburgh and Columbus, Ohio, October
9, 1865. The Pittsburgh and Lake Erie Railroad, now a part of the New York Central Lines, was
opened into Pittsburgh in February, 1879. The Wabash Railway completed its entrance into the
city on June 19, 1904.

XIII

In 1784 the town was laid out and settlers, among whom were many Scotch and Irish, came rapidly.
The town was made the county seat in 1791, incorporated as a borough in 1794, the charter was
revived in 1804, and the borough was chartered as a city in 1816. The first charter granted
to Pittsburgh in 1816 vested the more important powers of the city government in a common council
of fifteen members and a select council of nine members. In 1887 a new charter was adopted
giving to the mayor the power to appoint the heads of departments who were formerly elected
by the councils. On March 7, 1901, a new charter, known as "The Ripper," was adopted, under
the operations of which the elected mayor (William J. Diehl) was removed from his office, and
a new chief executive officer (A. M. Brown) appointed in his place by the governor, under the
title of recorder. By an act of April 23, 1903, the title of mayor was restored, and under
the changes then made the appointing power rests with the mayor, with the consent of the select
council. The following is a list of the mayors of Pittsburgh:

   1816-1817, Ebenezer Denny
   1817-1825, John Darragh
   1825-1828, John M. Snowden
   1828-1830, Magnus M. Murray
   1830-1831, Matthew B. Lowrie
   1831-1832, Magnus M. Murray
   1832-1836, Samuel Pettigrew
   1836-1839, Jonas R. McClintock
   1839-1840, William Little
   1840-1841, William W. Irwin
   1841-1842, James Thomson
   1842-1845, Alexander Hay
   1845-1846, William J. Howard
   1846-1847, William Kerr
   1847-1849, Gabriel Adams
   1849-1850, John Herron
   1850-1851, Joseph Barker
   1851-1853, John B. Guthrie
   1853-1854, Robert M. Riddle
   1854-1856, Ferdinand E. Volz
   1856-1857, William Bingham
   1857-1860, Henry A. Weaver
   1860-1862, George Wilson
   1862-1864, B. C. Sawyer
   1864-1866, James Lowry
   1866-1868, W. S. McCarthy
   1868-1869, James Blackmore
   1869-1872, Jared M. Brush
   1872-1875, James Blackmore
   1875-1878, William C. McCarthy
   1878-1881, Robert Liddell
   1881-1884, Robert W. Lyon
   1884-1887, Andrew Fulton
   1887-1890, William McCallin
   1890-1893, Henry I. Gourley
   1893-1896, Bernard McKenna
   1896-1899, Henry P. Ford
   1899-1901, William J. Diehl
   1901,      A. M. Brown (Title changed to Recorder)
   1901-1903, J. O. Brown (Recorder)
   1903,      W. B. Hays (Recorder; served about one week under that title)
   1903-1906, W. B. Hays (Mayor again)
   1906-1909, George W. Guthrie

A movement to consolidate the cities of Pittsburgh and Allegheny together with some adjacent
boroughs, was begun in 1853-54. It failed entirely that year, but in 1867 Lawrenceville, Peebles,
Collins, Liberty, Pitt, and Oakland, all lying between the two rivers, were annexed to Pittsburgh,
and in 1872 there was a further annexation of a district embracing twenty-seven square miles
south of the Monongahela River, while in 1906 Allegheny was also annexed; and, as there was
litigation to test the validity of the consolidation, the Supreme Court of the United States
on December 6, 1907, declared in favor of the constitutionality of the act.

XIV

The first national convention of the Republican party was held in Pittsburgh on February 22
and 23, 1856. While this gathering was an informal convention, it was made for the purpose
of effecting a national organization of the groups of Republicans which had grown up in the
States where slavery was prohibited. Pittsburgh was, therefore, in a broad sense, the place
where the birth of the Republican party occurred. A digression on this subject, in order that
the record may be made clear, will probably not be unwelcome.

In 1620, three months before the landing of the Mayflower at Provincetown, a Dutch vessel carried
African slaves up the James River, and on the soil of Virginia there was planted a system of
servitude which at last extended throughout the Colonies and flourished with increasing vigor
in the South, until, in the War of the Rebellion, Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation
put an end forever to slavery in America. When the builders of our Government met in the Constitutional
Convention of 1787, slavery was a problem which more than once threatened to wreck the scheme
for an indissoluble union of the States. But it was compromised under a suggestion implied
in the Constitution itself, that slavery should not be checked in the States in which it existed
until 1808. In the meantime the entire labor system of the South was built upon African slavery,
while at the North the horror of the public conscience grew against the degrading institution
from year to year. By 1854 the men in the free States who were opposed to slavery had begun
to unite themselves by political bonds, and in the spring and summer of that year, groups of
such men met in more or less informal conferences in Wisconsin, Michigan, New York, Maine,
Massachusetts, Iowa, Ohio, and other northern States.

On January 17, 1856, "the Republican Association of Washington, D. C.," referring to the extension
of slavery into Kansas and Nebraska as "the deep dishonor inflicted upon the age in which we
live," issued a call, in accordance with what appeared to be the general desire of the Republican
party, inviting the Republicans of the Union to meet in informal convention at Pittsburgh on
February 22, 1856, for the purpose of perfecting the national organization, and providing for
a national delegate convention of the Republican party, at some subsequent day, to nominate
candidates for the presidency and vice-presidency, to be supported at the election in November,
1856.

The Republican party met accordingly for the first time in a national convention in Pittsburgh
on the date appointed, and was largely attended. Not only were all the free States represented,
but there were also delegates from Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, Kentucky, and Missouri.
John A. King was made temporary chairman, and Francis P. Blair permanent chairman. Speeches
were made by Horace Greeley, Giddings and Gibson of Ohio, Codding and Lovejoy of Illinois,
and others. Mr. Greeley sent a telegraphic report of the first day's proceedings to the New
York "Tribune," stating that the convention had accomplished much to cement former political
differences and distinctions, and that the meeting at Pittsburgh had marked the inauguration
of a national party, based upon the principle of freedom. He said that the gathering was very
large and the enthusiasm unbounded; that men were acting in the most perfect harmony and with
a unity of feeling seldom known to political assemblages of such magnitude; that the body was
eminently Republican in principle and tendency; and that it combined much of character and
talent, with integrity of purpose and devotion to the great principles which underlie our Government.
He prophesied that the moral and political effect of this convention upon the country would
be felt for the next quarter of a century. In its deliberations, he said that everything had
been conducted with marked propriety and dignity.

The platform adopted at Pittsburgh demanded the repeal of all laws allowing the introduction
of slavery into free territories; promised support by all lawful measures to the Free-State
men in Kansas in their resistance to the usurped authority of lawless invaders; and strongly
urged the Republican party to resist and overthrow the existing national administration because
it was identified with the progress of the slave power to national supremacy.

On the evening of the second day, a mass meeting was held in aid of the emigration to Kansas.
The president of the meeting was George N. Jackson, and D. D. Eaton was made secretary. Horace
Greeley and others made addresses, and with great enthusiasm promises of aid to the bleeding
young sister in the West were made.

This record seems to show beyond question that the Republican party had its national birth
at Pittsburgh on February 22, 1856, and that it came into being dedicated, as Horace Greeley
described it at that moment, to the principle of human freedom. A later formal convention,
as provided for at Pittsburgh, was held at Philadelphia on June 17, 1856, which nominated John
C. Fremont, of California, for President, and William L. Dayton, of New Jersey, for Vice-President.
This defeat of a good cause was probably a fortunate piece of adversity, for the men who opposed
slavery were not yet strong enough to grapple the monster to its death as they did when Lincoln
was nominated four years later. It was the high mission of the party in 1856 and 1860 to stand
against the extension of slavery, and in 1864 against all slavery as well as against the destruction
of this Union; and in 1868, against those who wished to nullify the results of the war. Its
later mission has been full of usefulness and honor.

XV

Among the eminent men who visited Pittsburgh in bygone days we find record of the following:

    1817, President Monroe
    1825, General Lafayette
    1833, Daniel Webster
    1842, Charles Dickens
    1848, Henry Clay
    1849, President Taylor and Governor Johnston
    1852, Louis Kossuth
    1860, Prince of Wales (now King Edward VII)
    1861, President Lincoln
    1866, President Johnson, Admiral Farragut, General Grant,
            and Secretaries Seward and Welles

In 1845 (April 10th), a great fire destroyed about one third of the total area of the city,
including most of the large business houses and factories, the bridge over the Monongahela
River, the large hotel known as the Monongahela House, and several churches, in all about eleven
hundred buildings. The Legislature appropriated $50,000 for the relief of the sufferers.

In 1889, the great flood at Johnstown, accompanied by a frightful loss of life and destruction
of property, touched the common heart of humanity all over the world. The closeness of Johnstown
geographically made the sorrow at Pittsburgh most poignant and profound. In a few hours almost
the whole population had brought its offerings for the stricken community, and besides clothing,
provisions, and every conceivable thing necessary for relief and comfort, the people of Pittsburgh
contributed $250,000 to restore so far as possible the material portion of the loss.

In the autumn of 1908 a series of imposing celebrations was held to commemorate the one hundred
and fiftieth anniversary of the founding of Pittsburgh.

XVI

In 1877, the municipal government being, in its personnel, at the moment, incompetent to preserve
the fundamental principles on which it was established, permitted a strike of railroad employees
to grow without restriction as to the observance of law and order until it became an insurrection.
Four million dollars' worth of property was destroyed by riot and incendiarism in a few hours.
When at last outraged authority was properly shifted from the supine city chieftains to the
indomitable State itself, it became necessary, before order could be restored, for troops to
fire, with a sacrifice of human life.

For some months preceding the riots at Pittsburgh disturbances among the railroad employees,
especially the engineers and brakemen of freight-trains, had been frequent on railroads west
and east of this city. These disturbances arose mainly from resistance to reductions in the
rates of wages, made or proposed by the executive officers of the various railroads, and also
from objections of train crews to regulations governing the transportation system.

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company, some time after the panic of 1873, reduced the wages of
its employees ten per cent., and, on account of the general decline in business, made another
reduction of ten per cent. to take effect on June 1, 1877; these reductions to apply to all
employees from the president of the company down. The reductions affected the roads known as
the Pennsylvania Lines west of Pittsburgh, as well as the Pennsylvania Railroad, and similar
alterations were also made on the New York Central and the Baltimore & Ohio Railroads. The
changed conditions caused a great deal of dissatisfaction among the trainmen, but a committee
was appointed by them, which held a conference with Mr. Thomas A. Scott, President of the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, and agreed to the reduction, reporting its conclusions to the trainmen.

On July 16th an order was issued by the railroad company that thirty-six freight-cars, instead
of eighteen, as before, were to be made up as a train, without increase in the number of the
crew, and with a locomotive at the end to act as a pusher, assisting the one at the front,
making what is technically called "a double header." The train employees looked upon this order
as doubling their work under the decreased pay of June 1st, and in its effect virtually tending
to the discharge of many men then employed in the running of freight-trains. The strike which
followed does not seem to have been seriously organized, but was rather a sudden conclusion
arrived at on the impulse of the moment, and was probably strengthened by a wave of discontent
which was sweeping over the roads to the east and west, as well as by an undercurrent of hostility
toward the railroads exhibited by some of the newspapers. As far back as July 23, 1876, a Pittsburgh
paper, in publishing an article headed "Railroad Vultures," had said: "Railroad officials are
commencing to understand that the people of Pittsburgh will be patient no longer; that this
community is being aroused into action, and that presently the torrent of indignation will
give place to condign retribution"; and in another paragraph the same paper had said: "We desire
to impress upon the minds of the community that these vultures are constantly preying upon
the wealth and resources of the country; they are a class, as it were, of money jugglers intent
only on practising their trickery for self aggrandizement, and that, consequently, their greed
leads them into all known ways and byways of fraud, scheming, and speculating, to accomplish
the amassing of princely fortunes." These intemperate utterances were the first seeds of popular
sedition.

It was not until 8.30 o'clock on the morning of the 19th that the real trouble began. Two freight-trains
were to start at 8.40, but ten minutes before that the crews sent word that they would not
take the trains out. Two yard crews were then asked to take their places, but they refused
to do so. The trains were not taken out, and the crews of all the trains that came in, as they
arrived, joined the strikers. As the day wore on the men gradually congregated at the roundhouse
of the road at Twenty-eighth Street, but did not attempt or threaten any violence. The news
of the strike had spread through the two cities, and large numbers of the more turbulent class
of the population, together with many workmen from the factories who sympathized with the strikers,
hastened to Twenty-eighth Street, and there was soon gathered a formidable mob in which the
few striking railroad employees were an insignificant quantity.

When the railroad officials found their tracks and roundhouse in the possession of a mob which
defied them, they called upon the mayor of the city for protection, to which Mayor McCarthy
promptly responded, going in person with a detail of officers to the scene of the trouble.
When the police arrived on the ground they found an excited assemblage of people who refused
to listen to their orders to disperse, and the mayor made no serious effort to enforce his
authority effectually. There was no collision, however, until a man who had refused to join
the strikers attempted to couple some cars, when he was assaulted. An officer of the road who
undertook to turn a switch, was also assaulted by one of the mob, who was arrested by the police.
His comrades began throwing stones, but the police maintained their hold of their prisoner,
and conveyed him to the jail. A crowd then gathered in front of the police station and made
threats of rescuing their comrade, but no overt act was committed. The mob, which had by this
time become greatly enraged, was really not composed of railroad employees, who had contemplated
no such result of their strike, and now generally deplored the unfortunate turn which the affair
had taken. It was for the most part composed of the worst element of the population, who, without
any grievance of their own, real or imagined, had gathered together from the very force of
their vicious inclinations and the active hope of plunder.

The strikers held a meeting that evening, at which they demanded that the ten per cent. should
be restored, and the running of double headers abolished. In the meantime, the railroad authorities,
perceiving the inefficiency of the local police powers, and alarmed at the still-increasing
mob and the vicious spirit which it displayed, invoked the aid of the sheriff of the county.
At midnight Sheriff Fife came to Twenty-eighth Street with a hastily summoned posse, a part
of which deserted him before he reached the scene of action, and ordered the rioters to disperse,
which they, with hoots and jeers, defiantly refused to do. The sheriff then sought aid from
the military, and General A. L. Pearson issued an order to the Eighteenth and Nineteenth regiments
of the National Guards of Pennsylvania, with headquarters at Pittsburgh, to assemble at half
past six the next morning, armed and equipped for duty. Sheriff Fife also telegraphed to the
State authorities at Harrisburg, stating that he was unable to quell the riot, and asking that
General Pearson be instructed to do this with his force; and Adjutant General Latta issued
the orders accordingly. General Pearson marched his forces to the Union Depot and placed them
in position in the yard and on the hillside above it. The mob was not, however, deterred by
this action, as the troops were supposed to be more or less in sympathy with the strikers,
and were expected to be disinclined to fire upon their fellow citizens if they should be ordered
to do so. The employment of local troops at this moment constituted a grave mistake in the
management of the riot.

The governor had, however, been telegraphed to, and had ordered General Brinton's division
of troops to leave Philadelphia for Pittsburgh. This became known to the mob, which was still
increasing in numbers and turbulence, and the calling of troops from the east drove them to
fury. The feeling had spread to the workingmen in the factories on the South Side, where a
public meeting was held, and demagogical speeches made, upholding the action of the strikers;
and five hundred men came thence in a body and joined the crowd.

At this critical moment the mob received an endorsement that not only greatly encouraged it,
but incited it to extreme violence. A local newspaper, on Friday, the 20th, in the course of
an editorial headed "The Talk of the Desperate," which formulated what was assumed as the expression
of a workingman, used this language:

     This may be the great civil war in this country between labor and
     capital that is bound to come.... The workingmen everywhere are in
     fullest sympathy with the strikers, and only waiting to see whether
     they are in earnest enough to fight for their rights. They would
     all join and help them the moment an actual conflict took place....
     The governor, with his proclamation, may call and call, but the
     laboring people, who mostly constitute the militia, won't take up
     arms to put down their brethren. Will capital then rely on the
     United States Army? Pshaw! Its ten to fifteen thousand available
     men would be swept from our path like leaves in a whirlwind. The
     workingmen of this country can capture and hold it, if they will
     only stick together, and it looks as though they were going to do
     so this time. Of course, you say that capital will have some
     supporters. Many of the unemployed will be glad to get work as
     soldiers, or extra policemen; the farmers, too, might turn out to
     preserve your law and order; but the working army would have the
     most men and the best men. The war might be bloody but the right
     would prevail. Men like Tom Scott, Frank Thomson--yes, and William
     Thaw--who have got rich swindling the stockholders of railroads, so
     that they cannot pay honest labor living rates, we would hang to
     the nearest tree.

Although the paper in a later edition suppressed that part of the editorial, and the other
papers of the city refrained from any editorials that might increase the excitement, yet the
mischief had been done, the unfortunate words had been widely read, and the more intelligently
vicious of the rioters proceeded to make the most of them.

The eastern troops left Philadelphia on Friday night and arrived at the Union Depot on Saturday
afternoon, tired and hungry. After a scant and hasty lunch they were placed out along the tracks
to the roundhouse where the great bulk of the mob was assembled. In order to secure and protect
the building and tracks it was necessary that the crowd should be forced back. When the troops
undertook this movement some stones were thrown and a few soldiers were hit. Then one of the
subordinate officers gave an order to fire, and about twenty persons were killed and thirty
wounded, three of whom were children.

When the rioters beheld their associates attacked, their rage passed all control, and the troops
were closed in upon and driven into the roundhouse. Encouraged by this retreat, the mob took
steps to burn them out. Many cars loaded with whisky and petroleum were set on fire and sent
down the track against the building, and fire was opened on it with a cannon which the crowd
had seized from a local armory. General Brinton came personally to one of the windows of the
roundhouse and appealed to the mob to desist, warning them that if they did not he must and
would fire. The rioters paid no attention to his appeal, but continued their assaults, whereupon
General Brinton gave orders to his men to fire at those who were handling the cannon, and several
of them were killed and wounded. Incendiarism, having been inaugurated, went on through the
night, whole trains being robbed and then burned. The troops held their position until Sunday
morning, and then retreated out Penn Avenue to Sharpsburg, where they went into camp.

During Saturday night and Sunday morning the mob seemed to have taken possession of the city.
They broke open several armories and gun stores, and supplied themselves with arms and ammunition.
The banks were threatened, and the city seemed about to be pillaged, the business part of the
city being filled with bands of rioters who uttered threats of violence and murder. On Sunday
morning the roundhouse and all the locomotives which it contained were destroyed by fire. The
Union Depot, the grain elevator, the Adams Express building, and the Pan Handle depot were
also set on fire and consumed. The firemen who hastened to the scene and attempted to extinguish
the flames were met by armed men and driven back. At half past twelve on Sunday morning a committee
appointed by a citizens' meeting tried to open a consultation with the mob, but were promptly
driven away. The committee found that they were not dealing with dissatisfied railroad employees
but with a mob of the worst of the city's population, there being neither organization nor
leader, but each man or party of men doing what the frenzy of the moment suggested. When it
seemed as if the whole city was to be destroyed, some of the original strikers were persuaded
to attend a meeting of the citizens at four o'clock and arrange to aid in suppressing the incendiarism,
and they did this with such a good spirit as showed that the railroad strikers were not a part
of the mob and did not countenance its violence. At this meeting the mayor was authorized to
enroll five hundred police, but the accounts of the day show that the ranks filled up slowly.
The state of terror continued through all of Sunday night, and on Monday morning the mob was
still in an unorganized control.

Throughout the thirty-six hours from Saturday night until Monday morning a most unusual state
of public mind developed here and there which seemed like a moral epidemic. There was almost
a wholesale appropriation of goods from the burning cars by men and even women who would at
other times have shuddered at the idea of robbery; and after the riot was suppressed goods
were for some time voluntarily returned by persons who had taken them unreflectingly, having
at length recovered their moral perceptions, which had seemingly been clouded by the vicious
influence of the mob.

On Monday morning, however, the uprooted law seemed to be recovering a portion of its dissipated
majesty. During the night posters had been placed conspicuously throughout the city, on which
was printed the law under which the citizens of Allegheny County were liable for all the damage
done by the mob or arising from its actions. At eleven o'clock in the morning, a meeting of
citizens was called at the Chamber of Commerce, to form a Committee of Public Safety to take
charge of the situation, as the city authorities, the sheriff, and the military seemed powerless
to control it. This committee presented the following address to the public:

     The Committee of Public Safety, appointed at the meeting of
     citizens held at the Chamber of Commerce July 23d, deeming that the
     allaying of excitement is the first step toward restoring order,
     would urge upon all citizens disposed to aid therein the necessity
     of pursuing their usual avocation, and keeping all their employees
     at work, and would, therefore, request that full compliance be
     accorded to this demand of the committee. The committee are
     impressed with the belief that the police force now being organized
     will be able to arrest and disperse all riotous assemblages, and
     that much of the danger of destruction to property has passed, and
     that an entire restoration of order will be established. The
     committee believe that the mass of industrious workmen of the city
     are on the side of law and order, and a number of the so-called
     strikers are already in the ranks of the defenders of the city, and
     it is quite probable that any further demonstration will proceed
     from thieves and similar classes of population, with whom our
     working classes have no affiliation and will not be found among
     them.

     It is to this end that the committee request that all classes of
     business be prosecuted as usual, and our citizens refrain from
     congregating in the streets in crowds, so that the police of the
     city may not be confused in their effort to arrest rioters, and the
     military be not restrained from prompt action, if necessary, from
     fear of injuring the innocent.

While the rioters had by this time been somewhat restrained by the resolute action of the committee,
yet they were, although dispersed as a body, holding meetings and still breathing sullen threats
of further outrage and murder. The strike had spread to the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago
Railway, and its trains were for two or three days virtually stopped; in other sections of
the country the railroad troubles were increasing, and the committee thought best to call Major-General
Joseph Brown and Colonel P. N. Guthrie, of the Eighteenth National Guards, into consultation.
Under their advice a camp of the military was formed at East Liberty, to be held in readiness
for any further outbreak. Mayor McCarthy, at last inspirited by the determined men who urged
him to his duty, enrolled five hundred extra police, and issued a proclamation in which he said:

     I have determined that peace, order, and quiet shall be restored to
     the community, and to this end call upon all good citizens to come
     forward at once to the old City Hall and unite with the police and
     military now organizing. I call upon all to continue quietly at
     their several places of business and refrain from participating in
     excited assemblages.

A proclamation had also been issued by Governor Hartranft, and he had come to Pittsburgh to
address the rioters, and subsequently two or three thousand troops were ordered by him to Pittsburgh,
and were encamped near East Liberty for several days.

Under these vigorous measures quiet was in a few days restored, although the Committee of Public
Safety continued to hold sessions and to take steps not only to prevent any further demonstrations,
but to arrest and bring to punishment a number of the prominent rioters.

Claims for losses in the riot were made on Allegheny County in the sum of $4,100,000, which
the commissioners settled for $2,772,349.53. Of this sum $1,600,000 was paid to the Pennsylvania
Railroad, whose claim for $2,312,000 was settled for that sum. In addition to the buildings
already specified as burned, there were 1,383 freight-cars, 104 locomotives, and 66 passenger
coaches destroyed by fire. Twenty-five persons in all were killed.

The lesson was worth all it cost, and anarchy has never dared to raise its head in the corporation
limits since that time.

XVII

The Homestead strike and riot of 1892 is another incident of false leadership in industrial
life which must be chronicled here.

For many years the Carnegie Steel Company, whose principal works were situated at Homestead,
just outside the present boundaries of the city, had employed a large number of skilled workmen
who belonged to the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers, and had contracted for
their employment with the officers of that Association. On July 1, 1889, a three years' contract
was made which was to terminate at the end of June, 1892. The workmen were paid by the ton,
the amount they received depending on the selling price of steel billets of a specified size
which they produced. If the price of these billets advanced, the wages they received per ton
advanced proportionately. If the price declined, their wages also declined to a certain point,
called a minimum, but a decline in the selling price below this minimum caused no reduction
in wages. The minimum was fixed in the contract at $25.00 per ton. At the date the contract
was made the market price of the billets was $26.50 per ton.

As the time drew near for the contract to expire, the Carnegie Company, through its chairman,
Mr. Henry C. Frick, submitted to the workmen belonging to the Association a proposition as
the basis of a new contract. The three most important features of the proposed contract were,
first, a reduction in the minimum of the scale for billets from $25.00 to $22.00; second, a
change in the expiration of the date of the scale from June 30th to December 31st; third, a
reduction of tonnage rates at those furnaces and mills in which, by reason of the introduction
of improved machinery, the earnings of the workmen had been increased far beyond the liberal
calculation of their employers. At those places where no such improvements had been made, no
reduction in tonnage rates was proposed. The company gave as a reason for reducing the minimum
that the market price of steel had gone down below $25.00 per ton, and that it was unfair for
the workmen to have the benefits of a rise in the market above $25.00, and share none of the
losses of the company when the market price fell below that figure. Indeed, the company contended
that there ought to be no minimum as there was no maximum under the sliding scale. The workmen
insisted that there ought to be a minimum to protect them against unfair dealing between the
company and its buyers, as they had no voice or authority in selling the products of their labor.

The reason for changing the time for closing the contract was that the company's business was
less active at the end of the calendar year than in midsummer, and that it was easier to complete
new arrangements for employment at that time. Another reason was that the company often made
sales for an entire year, and consequently contracts for labor could be more safely made if
they began and ended at times corresponding with contracts made with their customers. The workmen
opposed this change in the duration of the contract on the ground that in midwinter they would
be less able to resist any disposition on the part of the company to cut down their wages,
and that in the event of a strike, it would be more difficult to maintain their situation than
it would be in summer. They claimed, therefore, that the change in time would be a serious
disadvantage to them in negotiating with their employers. They proposed to the company, as
a counter proposition, that the contract should end the last of June, as had formerly been
the case, and that if any change was to be demanded, three months' notice must be given them,
and that, if this was not done, the contract, which was to run for three years, should continue
for a year longer; in other words, from June 30, 1895, until June 30, 1896. This suggestion
was rejected by the company. But the company then proposed to make the minimum $23.00 per ton
for steel billets, and the Association, through its committee, named a price of $24.00, refusing
to concede any more.

While these negotiations were pending, the superintendent of the Homestead Steel Works had
concluded contracts with all the employees, except three hundred and twenty-five of the highest
skill, who were employed in three of the twelve departments. All the others were to be paid
on the former basis of remuneration without any reduction whatever. Of the three hundred and
twenty-five high-priced men with whom contracts had not been made, two hundred and eighty would
have been affected by the tonnage reductions and about forty-five more by the tonnage reductions
and scale minimum.

Under the proposed readjustments those who received the low grades of compensation and the
common laborers would not have been touched in their earnings. The actual controversy was thus
narrowed down to a small number of men, less than ten per cent. of those employed at Homestead.

During the remainder of the month of June other steps were taken to effect an agreement, but
the relations between the officers of the company and the workmen, instead of improving, grew
worse. On the 28th the company began to close the different departments, and on the last day
of the month work in all of them ceased. On July 1st the striking workmen congregated about
the gates, stopped the foremen and employees who came to work, and persuaded them to go away.
The watchmen of the company were turned away from the works; guards were placed at all the
entrances, the river, streets and roads entering the town were patrolled by strikers, and a
rigid surveillance was exercised over those who entered the town or approached the plant. When
the sheriff came on July 4th and attempted to put deputies of his own selection in possession
of the works, to guard them for the company, he was opposed by a counter force, the striking
workmen proposing to place guards of their own and give indemnity for the safety of the property;
but this the sheriff declined because it would enable the strikers to keep any new non-union
men from taking their places. On July 5th, when the sheriff sent twelve deputies to take possession
of the works, they were driven away.

In the meantime Mr. Frick had begun negotiations as early as June 20th with Robert A. Pinkerton,
of New York, for the employment of three hundred watchmen to be placed in the works at Homestead.
They were brought from Ashtabula to Youngstown by rail, thence to Pittsburgh by river. On the
evening of July 5th, Captain Rodgers' two boats, with Deputy Sheriff Gray, Superintendent Potter,
of the Homestead works, and some of his assistants, on board, dropped down the river with two
barges in tow, until they met the Pinkerton men. When the boat, with the barges in tow, approached
Homestead in the early morning of the 6th, they were discovered by a small steamer used by
the strikers as a patrol, and the alarm was given. A short war of words was followed by firing
on each side, which resulted ultimately in the death of three of the Pinkertons and seven of
the workmen, and the wounding of many on each side. After a brief fusillade those on shore
fled in various directions, and the Pinkerton men retreated into their barges. About five o'clock
in the afternoon the Pinkertons surrendered, being allowed to take out their clothing, but
their arms and supplies fell into the possession of the Homestead people. The barges were immediately
set on fire and burned, and in their burning the pump-house belonging to the Carnegie Company
was also destroyed. The Pinkerton men, now being practically prisoners of war, were marched
up-town to the skating-rink for temporary imprisonment. The sheriff was notified, and he came
down that night and took the prisoners away. He then informed the governor of Pennsylvania
of what had occurred, and called upon him for troops to enforce the law and restore public
order. Governor Pattison made a prompt response to this appeal, as his duty under the law required
him to do. On the morning of the 12th the soldiers of the State militia entered Homestead.
As soon as they arrived the Carnegie Company took possession of its works, and began to make
preparations to resume work with non-union men. It was difficult to secure employees, and several
months passed away before the company was able to obtain all the men it desired. At first the
new employees were fed and housed within the enclosure, and this plan continued for several
weeks until their number had increased to such a degree that they felt secure in going outside
for their meals with the protection afforded by the sheriff's deputies.

The company made an effort to employ their old workmen and fixed a time for receiving applications
for employment from them. When the time had expired, however, which was on July 21st, not one
participant in the strike had returned. At a later period many of the old employees returned
to work. By the close of July, nearly a thousand men were at work at Homestead. On July 23d
Mr. Frick was shot in his office by Alexander Berkman, an anarchist, who was not, and never
had been, an employee. The chairman recovered from his wounds and his assailant was sent to
the penitentiary.

The last of the troops were not withdrawn until October 13th. At that time the mill was in
full operation with non-union men.

Though the strike was ended in October, its formal termination by the Amalgamated Association
was not declared until November 20th, when the disposition of the strikers to return to work
was very general. Assuming that the strike lasted nearly five months, as the monthly pay-roll
of the mill was about $250,000, the loss to the striking employees for that period was not
far from $1,250,000. No estimate of the loss sustained by the company has been published. The
cost to the State in sending and maintaining the National Guard at Homestead was $440,256.31.

INDUSTRIAL

I

Pittsburgh has thus passed through many battles, trials, afflictions, and adversities, and
has grown in the strength of giants until it now embraces in the limits of the county a population
rapidly approaching one million. This seems a proper moment, therefore, turning away from the
romantic perspective of history, to attempt a brief description of Pittsburgh as we see her
to-day. In order to give value to the record it will be necessary to employ certain statistics,
but the effort will be to make these figures as little wearisome as possible. The present population
after the annexation of Allegheny (December 6, 1907) is estimated at 550,000, and if we were
to add McKeesport with its tube mills, Homestead with its Carnegie works, and East Pittsburgh
with its Westinghouse plants, all of which lie just outside of the present corporate limits,
the population would be 700,000. In 1900 we can give the population definitely (omitting Allegheny)
at 321,616, of whom 85,032 were foreign born and 17,040 were negroes. Of these foreign born
21,222 were natives of Germany, 18,620 of Ireland, 8,902 of England, 6,243 of Russian Poland,
5,709 of Italy, 4,107 of Russia, 3,553 of Austria, 3,515 of German Poland, 2,539 of Wales,
2,264 of Scotland, 2,124 of Hungary, 1,072 of Sweden, 1,025 of Austrian Poland, and 154 Chinese.

II

It has already been said that the city is a gateway from the East to the West and South, and
as such it is the center of a vast railway system. The principal railroads serving Pittsburgh
are the Pennsylvania, Baltimore and Ohio, the New York Central Lines, and the Wabash System,
and she has also a numerous fleet of boats plying the three rivers. Coal is brought to the
city by boats as well as by rail, and great fleets of barges carry it and other heavy freight
down the Ohio. A ship canal for the establishment of water transportation between Pittsburgh
and Lake Erie (127.5 miles) has been projected. The railroads carry through Pittsburgh over
eight per cent. of all the railroad traffic of the United States; and have a particularly heavy
tonnage of coal, coke, and iron and steel products; while a large proportion of the iron ore
that is produced in the Lake Superior region is brought here to supply Pittsburgh manufactures.
The total railway and river tonnage is greater than that of any other city in the world, amounting
in 1906 to 122,000,000 tons, of which about 12,000,000 tons were carried on boats down the
Ohio. Her tonnage is equal to one half the combined tonnage of the Atlantic and Pacific coasts.
The following table will be very interesting as showing the extraordinary fact that the tonnage
of Pittsburgh exceeds the combined tonnage of the five other greatest cities in the world (1902):

    Pittsburgh                     86,636,680 tons
    London      17,564,110 tons
    New York    17,398,000  "
    Antwerp     16,721,000  "
    Hamburg     15,853,490  "
    Liverpool   13,157,720  "
                ----------
          Total                    80,694,320  "
                                   ----------
       Pittsburgh's excess          5,942,360  "

Pittsburgh has freight yards with a total capacity for more than 60,000 cars. Its harbor has
a total length on the three rivers of twenty-eight miles, with an average width of about one
thousand feet, and has been deepened by the Davis Island Dam (1885) and by dredging. Slack
water navigation has been secured on the Allegheny River by locks and dams at an expense of
more than a million and a quarter dollars. The Monongahela River from Pittsburgh to the West
Virginia State line (91.5 miles) was improved by a private company in 1836, which built seven
locks and dams. This property was condemned and bought by the United States Government, in
1897 for $3,761,615, and the Government is planning to rebuild and enlarge these works.

Pittsburgh is surrounded by the most productive coal-fields in the country. The region is also
rich in petroleum and natural gas, and although the petroleum in the immediate vicinity has
been nearly exhausted, it is still obtained through pipes from the neighboring regions. The
first petroleum pipe line reached Pittsburgh in 1875.

Pittsburgh is also a port of entry, and for the year ending December, 1907, the value of its
imports amounted to $2,416,367.

In 1806 the manufacture of iron was begun, and by 1825 this had become the leading industry.
Among the earlier prominent iron industries was the Kensington Iron Works, of which Samuel
Church (born February 5, 1800; died December 7, 1857), whose family has been resident in Pittsburgh
from 1822 to the present day, was the leading partner. In the manufacture of iron and steel
products Pittsburgh ranks first among the cities of the United States, their value in 1905
amounting to $92,939,860, or 53.3 per cent. of the total of the whole country. Several towns
in the near neighborhood are also extensively engaged in the same industry, and in 1902 Allegheny
County produced about 24 per cent. of the pig iron; nearly 34 per cent. of the Bessemer steel;
44 per cent. of the open hearth steel; 53 per cent. of the crucible steel; 24 per cent. of
the steel rails, and 59 per cent. of the structural shapes that were made that year in the
United States. In 1905 the value of Pittsburgh's foundry and machine-shop products amounted
to $9,631,514; of the product of steam railroad repair shops, $3,726,990; of malt liquors,
$3,166,829; of slaughtering and meat-packing products, $2,732,027; of cigars and cigarettes,
$2,297,228; of glass, $2,130,540; and of tin and terne plate, $1,645,570. Electrical machinery,
apparatus, and supplies were manufactured largely in the city, to a value in 1905 of $1,796,557.
The Heinz Company has its main pickle plant in Pittsburgh, the largest establishment of its
kind in the world.

Pittsburgh's first glass works was built in 1797 by James O'Hara. In 1900, and for a long period
preceding, the town ranked first among American cities in the manufacture of glass, but in
1905 it was outranked in this industry by Muncie, Indiana, Millville, New Jersey, and Washington,
Pennsylvania; but in the district outside of the limits of Pittsburgh much glass is manufactured,
so that the Pittsburgh glass district is still the greatest in the country. In Pittsburgh or
its immediate vicinity the more important plants of the United States Steel Corporation are
located, including the Carnegie Works at Homestead. Just outside the limits also are the plants
of the Westinghouse Company for the manufacture of electrical apparatus, of air-brakes which
George Westinghouse invented in 1868, and of devices for railway signals which he also invented.

Alexander Johnston Cassatt, one of the greatest of the Pennsylvania Railroad presidents, and
perhaps the most far-seeing and resourceful of all our captains of industry of the present
generation, was born here. James McCrea, the present wise and conservative president of that
road, lived here for twenty years. Andrew Carnegie, Henry Phipps, and Henry C. Frick were the
strongest personalities who grew up with the Carnegie steel interests. George Westinghouse,
whose inventive genius, as shown in his safety appliances, has so greatly reduced the hazards
of railway travel and of operation, has long been one of the industrial and social pillars
of the community. John A. Brashear, astronomer and educator, the maker of delicate instruments,
is a well-beloved citizen.

Pittsburgh ranks high as a banking center. She is the second city in the United States in banking
capital and surplus, and leads all American cities in proportion of capital and surplus to
gross deposits, with 47.1 per cent., while Philadelphia ranks second with 26 per cent. In 1906,
there were one hundred and seventy-nine banks and trust companies in the Pittsburgh district
with a combined capital of $72,058,402, and a surplus of $87,044,622. The gross deposits were
$395,379,783, while the total resources amounted to $593,392,069. Pittsburgh, with clearing-house
exchanges amounting to $2,640,847,046, ranks sixth among the cities of the United States, being
exceeded by the following cities in the order named: New York, Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia,
and St. Louis, and often on a given day exceeds those of St. Louis.

III

The tax valuation of Pittsburgh property is $609,632,427. She mines one quarter of the bituminous
coal of the United States. With an invested capital of $641,000,000, she has 3,029 mills and
factories with an annual product worth $551,000,000, and 250,000 employees on a pay-roll of
about $1,000,000 a day, or $350,000,000 a year. Her electric street-railway system multiplies
itself through her streets for four hundred and ninety-two miles. Natural-gas fuel is conveyed
into her mills and houses through one thousand miles of iron pipe. Her output of coke makes
one train ten miles long every day throughout the year. Seven hundred passenger trains and
ten thousand loaded freight cars run to and from her terminals every day. Nowhere else in the
world is there so large a Bessemer-steel plant, crucible-steel plant, plate-glass plant, chimney-glass
plant, table-glass plant, air-brake plant, steel-rail plant, cork works, tube works, or steel
freight-car works. Her armor sheaths our battle-ships, as well as those of Russia and Japan.
She equips the navies of the world with projectiles and range-finders. Her bridges span the
rivers of India, China, Egypt, and the Argentine Republic; and her locomotives, rails, and
bridges are used on the Siberian Railroad. She builds electric railways for Great Britain and
Brazil, and telescopes for Germany and Denmark. Indeed, she distributes her varied manufactures
into the channels of trade all over the earth.

INTELLECTUAL

I

But while these stupendous industries have given Pittsburgh her wealth, population, supremacy,
and power, commercial materialism is not the ultima thule of her people.

Travelers who come to Pittsburgh, forgetting the smoke which often dims the blue splendor of
its skies, are struck with the picturesque situation of the town, for they find rolling plateaus,
wide rivers, and narrow valleys dropping down from high hills or precipitous bluffs throughout
the whole district over which the city extends. Yet the surpassing beauty of nature is not
more impressive to the thinking stranger than the work of man who has created and dominates
a vast industrial system. The manufactories extend for miles along the banks of all three rivers.
Red fires rise heavenward from gigantic forges where iron is being fused into wealth. The business
section of the city is wedged in by the rivers, its streets are swarming with people, and there
is a myriad of retail houses, wholesale houses, banks, tall office buildings, hotels, theaters,
and railway terminals; but right where these stop the residence section begins like another
city of happy homes--an immense garden of verdant trees and flowering lawns divided off by
beautiful avenues, where some houses rise which in Europe would be called castles and palaces,
with scarce a fence between to mark the land lines, giving an aspect almost of a park rather
than of a city. There are many miles of asphalt streets set off with grass plots. On the rolling
hills above the Monongahela River is Schenley Park (about four hundred and forty acres) with
beautiful drives, winding bridle paths, and shady walks through narrow valleys and over small
streams. Above the Allegheny River is Highland Park (about two hundred and ninety acres), containing
a placid lake and commanding fine views from the summits of its great hills. It also contains
a very interesting zoölogical garden. Close to Schenley Park are Homewood and Calvary Cemeteries
and near Highland Park is Allegheny Cemetery, where the dead sleep amidst drooping willows
and shading elms. Connecting the two parks and leading to them from the downtown section is
a system of wide boulevards about twenty miles in length. On the North Side (once Allegheny)
is Riverview Park (two hundred and seventeen acres), in which the Allegheny Observatory is
situated. A large number of handsome bridges span the rivers. The Pittsburgh Country Club provides
a broad expanse of rolling acres for pastoral sports.

II

In Schenley Park is the Carnegie Institute, with its new main building, dedicated in April
(11, 12, and 13), 1907, with imposing ceremonies which were attended by several hundred prominent
men from America and Europe. This building, which is about six hundred feet long and four hundred
feet wide, contains a library, an art gallery, halls of architecture and sculpture, a museum,
and a hall of music; while the Carnegie Technical Schools are operated in separate buildings
near by. It is built in the later Renaissance style, being very simple and yet beautiful. Its
exterior is of Ohio sandstone, while its interior finish is largely in marble, of which there
are sixty-five varieties, brought from every famous quarry in the world. In its great entrance
hall is a series of mural decorations by John W. Alexander, a distinguished son of Pittsburgh.
The library, in which the institution had its beginning in 1895, contains about 300,000 volumes,
has seven important branches, and one hundred and seventy-seven stations for the distribution
of books. Mr. Edwin H. Anderson inaugurated the library at the time of its creation, and, after
several years of successful service, was followed by Mr. Anderson H. Hopkins, and he by Mr.
Harrison W. Craver, who is now the efficient librarian. The Fine Arts department contains many
casts of notable works of architecture and sculpture, sufficient to carry the visitor in fancy
through an almost unbroken development from the earliest times in which man began to produce
beautiful structures to the present day. It is now the aim of this department to develop its
galleries on three lines: first, to gather early American paintings from the very beginning
of art in this country; second, to acquire such portraits of eminent men as will, in the passage
of years, make these halls to some extent a national portrait gallery; and, third, to obtain
such pieces of contemporary art as will lead to the formation of a thoroughly representative
collection of modern painting. The Art Gallery is already rich in this latter purpose, and
is renowned for its annual competitive exhibits which are open to the artists of all countries
for prizes offered by the Carnegie Institute. Mr. John W. Beatty, Director of Fine Arts, has
made the building up of this department his ripest and best work. The Museum embraces sections
of paleontology, mineralogy, vertebrate and invertebrate zoölogy, entomology, botany, comparative
anatomy, archæology, numismatics, ceramics, textiles, transportation, carvings in wood and
ivory, historical collections, the useful arts, and biological sciences. Its work in the department
of paleontology is particularly noteworthy as it has extended the boundaries of knowledge through
its many explorations in the western fossil fields. The success of the Museum is largely due
to the energy and erudition of Dr. W. J. Holland, its amiable director. In the music-hall,
a symphony orchestra is maintained, and free recitals are given on the great organ twice every
week by a capable performer. When the orchestra began its work thirteen years ago, it is doubtful
if there were very many persons in Pittsburgh, other than musical students, who knew the difference
between a symphony, a suite, a concerto, and a fugue. To-day there are thousands of people
in this city who can intelligently describe the shading differences in the Ninth Symphony and
give good reasons for their preference as between the two movements of the "Unfinished." The
first conductor of the orchestra was Frederic Archer, for three years, who was followed by
Victor Herbert, for three years, and then came Emil Paur, who is now in charge. The Technical
Schools embrace a School of Applied Science, a School for Apprentices and Journeymen, a School
of Applied Design, and a School for Women, and already possess a capable faculty of one hundred
and fifteen members, and a student body numbering 1,916. Dr. Arthur A. Hamerschlag is an enthusiastic
and capable director of this educational scheme. The Institute is governed by a Board of Trustees,
of which William N. Frew is President, Robert Pitcairn, Vice President, Samuel Harden Church,
Secretary, and James H. Reed, Treasurer. Charles C. Mellor is chairman of the Museum committee,
John Caldwell, of the Fine Arts committee, George A. Macbeth, of the Library committee, and
William McConway, of the Technical Schools committee.

The annual celebration of Founder's Day at the Carnegie Institute has become one of the most
notable platform occasions in America, made so by the illustrious men who participate in the
exercises. Some of these distinguished orators are William McKinley and Grover Cleveland, former
Presidents of the United States; John Morley and James Bryce, foremost among British statesmen
and authors; Joseph Jefferson, a beloved actor; Richard Watson Gilder, editor and poet; Wu
Ting Fang, Chinese diplomat, and Whitelaw Reid, editor and ambassador. At the great dedication
of the new building, in April, 1907, the celebration of Founder's Day surpassed all previous
efforts, being marked by the assembling of an illustrious group of men, and the delivery of
a series of addresses, which made the festival altogether beyond precedent. On that occasion
there came to Pittsburgh, as the guests of the Institute, from France, Dr. Leonce Bénédite,
Director Musée du Luxembourg; Baron d'Estournelles de Constant, Member of the French Senate
and of the Hague Court of Arbitration; Dr. Paul Doumer, late Governor-General of Cochin China,
and Dr. Camille Enlart, Director of the Trocadero Museum; from Germany, upon the personal suggestion
of his Majesty, Emperor William II, His Excellency Lieutenant-General Alfred von Loewenfeld,
Adjutant-General to his Majesty the Emperor; Colonel Gustav Dickhuth, Lecturer on Military
Science to the Royal Household; Dr. Ernst von Ihne, Hof-Architekt Sr. Maj. d. Kaisers; Dr.
Reinhold Koser, Principal Director of the Prussian State Archives, and Prof. Dr. Fritz Schaper,
sculptor; from Great Britain, Mr. William Archer, author and critic; Sir Robert S. Ball, Director
of Cambridge Observatory; Dr. C. F. Moberly Bell, manager London "Times"; Sir Robert Cranston,
late Lord Provost of Edinburgh; Sir Edward Elgar, composer; Mr. James Currie Macbeth, Provost
of Dunfermline; Dr. P. Chalmers Mitchell, Secretary Zoölogical Society of London; Sir William
Henry Preece, Consulting Engineer to the G. P. O. and Colonies; Dr. John Rhys, Principal of
Jesus College, University of Oxford; Dr. Ernest S. Roberts, Vice Chancellor of Cambridge University;
Mr. William Robertson, Member Dunfermline Trust; Dr. John Ross, Chairman Dunfermline Trust,
and Dr. William T. Stead, editor "Review of Reviews"; and from Holland, Jonkheer R. de Marees
van Swinderen, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to the United States, and Dr.
Joost Marius Willem van der Poorten-Schwartz ("Maarten Maartens"), author.

Mr. Andrew Carnegie has founded this splendid Institute, with its school system, at a cost
already approximating twenty million dollars, and he must enjoy the satisfaction of knowing
it to be the rallying ground for the cultured and artistic life of the community. The progress
made each year goes by leaps and bounds; so much so that we might well employ the phrase used
by Macaulay to describe Lord Bacon's philosophy: "The point which was yesterday invisible is
to-day its starting-point, and to-morrow will be its goal." The Institute has truly a splendid
mission.

III

The University of Pittsburgh was opened about 1770 and incorporated by the Legislature in 1787
under the name Pittsburgh Academy. In 1819 the name was changed to the Western University of
Pennsylvania, but, holding to the narrower scope of a college, it did not really become a university
until 1892, when it formed the Department of Medicine by taking over the Western Pennsylvania
Medical College. In 1895 the Departments of Law and Pharmacy were added and women were for
the first time admitted. In 1896 the Department of Dentistry was established. In 1908 (July
11th) the name was changed to the University of Pittsburgh. The several departments of the
University are at present (1908) located in different parts of the city, but a new site of
forty-three acres has been acquired near Schenley Park on which it is planned to bring them
all together. These new plans have been drawn under the direction of the chancellor, Dr. Samuel
Black McCormick, whose faith in the merit of his cause is bound to remove whole mountains of
financial difficulties. The University embraces a College and Engineering School, a School
of Mines, a Graduate Department, a Summer School, Evening Classes, Saturday Classes, besides
Departments of Astronomy, Law, Medicine, Pharmacy, and Dentistry. It now has a corps of one
hundred and fifty-one instructors and a body of 1,138 students.

IV

The author ventures to repeat in this little book a suggestion which has been made by him several
times, looking to a working coöperation or even a closer bond of union between the Carnegie
Institute and the University of Pittsburgh. In an address delivered at the Carnegie Institute
on Founder's Day, 1908, the author made the following remarks on this subject:

     The temptation to go a little further into the future first
     requires the acknowledgment which St. Paul made when he wrote of
     marriage: "I speak not by authority, but by sufferance." There will
     soon begin to rise on these adjacent heights the first new
     buildings of the Western University (now University of Pittsburgh),
     conceived in the classic spirit of Greece and crowning that hill
     like a modern Acropolis. With its charter dating back one hundred
     and twenty-five years the University is already venerable in this
     land. Is it not feasible to hope that through the practical
     benevolence of our people, some working basis of union can be
     effected between that institution and this? Here we have painting,
     and sculpture, and architecture, and books, and a wonderfully rich
     scientific collection, and the abiding spirit of music. We have
     these fast-growing Technical Schools. And yet the entire scheme
     seems to be lacking something which marks its unfinished state. The
     Technical Schools do not and should not teach languages,
     literature, philosophy, and the fine arts, nor the old learned
     professions, but these must always rest in the University. Should
     not one school thus supplement the other? And then, the students on
     each side of this main building would find available here those
     great collections which, if properly demonstrated, would give them
     a larger opportunity for systematic culture than could be offered
     by any other community in the world. For we should no longer permit
     these great departments of the fine arts and of the sciences to
     remain in a passive state, but they should all be made the means of
     active instruction from masterful professors. Music, its theory,
     composition, and performance on every instrument should be taught
     where demonstrations could be made with the orchestra and the
     organ. Successful painters and sculptors, the elected members of
     the future faculty, should fix their studios near the Institute and
     teach painting and sculpture as well as it could be done in Paris
     or Munich. Architecture should thrive by the hand of its trained
     votaries, while science should continue to reveal the secrets of
     her most attractive mysteries. Then, as the ambitious youths of the
     ancient world came to Athens to obtain the purest culture of that
     age, so would our modern youths, who are already in the Carnegie
     Technical Schools from twenty-six States, continue to come to
     Pittsburgh to partake of the most comprehensive scheme of education
     which the world would obtain. Believing firmly in the achieving
     power of hopeful thought, I pray you think on this.

V

In the East End is the Pennsylvania College for Women (Presbyterian; chartered in 1869), which
has one hundred and two students. On the North Side (Allegheny) are the Allegheny Theological
Seminary (United Presbyterian; founded in 1825), which has six instructors and sixty-one students;
the Western Theological Seminary (Presbyterian; opened in 1827), with sixty-four students and
twelve instructors, and a library of 34,000 volumes; and the Reformed Presbyterian Theological
Seminary (founded in 1856). There are five high schools and a normal academy and also the following
private academies: Pittsburgh Academy, for both boys and girls; East Liberty Academy, for boys;
Lady of Mercy Academy, for girls and for boys in the lower grades; the Stuart-Mitchell School,
for girls; the Gleim School, for girls; the Thurston School, for girls; and the Ursuline Young
Ladies' Academy.

The Phipps Conservatory (horticulture), the largest in America, and the Hall of Botany are
in Schenley Park and were built by Mr. Henry Phipps. There is an interesting zoölogical garden
in Highland Park which was founded by Mr. Christopher L. Magee.

The Pittsburgh "Gazette," founded July 29, 1786, and consolidated with the Pittsburgh "Times"
(1879) in 1906 as the "Gazette Times," is one of the oldest newspapers west of the Alleghany
Mountains. Other prominent newspapers of the city are the "Chronicle Telegraph" (1841); "Post"
(1842); "Dispatch" (1846); "Leader" (1870; Sunday, 1864); "Press" (1883); and the "Sun" (1906).
There are also two German dailies, the "Volksblatt und Freiheits-Freund" and the "Pittsburgher
Beobachter," one Slavonic daily, one Slavonic weekly, two Italian weeklies, besides journals
devoted to society and the iron, building, and glass trades. The publishing house of the United
Presbyterian Church is located here, and there are several periodical journals published by
the various religious bodies.

The city has some very attractive public buildings and office buildings and an unusual number
of beautiful churches. The Allegheny County Court-House, in the Romanesque style, erected in
1884-88 at a cost of $2,500,000, is one of Henry H. Richardson's masterpieces. The Nixon Theater
is a notable piece of architecture. The Post-Office and the Customs Office are housed in a
large Government building of polished granite.

The city has twenty or more hospitals for the care of its sick, injured, or insane, ten of
which have schools for the training of nurses. There is the Western Pennsylvania Institute
for the Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb in Pittsburgh, which is in part maintained by the
State, where trades are taught as a part of the educational system. The State also helps to
maintain the Western Pennsylvania Institution for the Blind, the Home for Aged and Infirm Colored
Women, and the Home for Colored Children. Among other charitable institutions maintained by
the city are the Home for Orphans, Home for the Aged, Home for Released Convicts, an extensive
system of public baths, the Curtis Home for Destitute Women and Girls, the Pittsburgh Newsboys'
Home, the Children's Aid Society of Western Pennsylvania, the Protestant Home for Incurables,
the Pittsburgh Association for the Improvement of the Poor, and the Western Pennsylvania Humane
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Children, and Aged Persons. Under the management
of Women's Clubs several playgrounds are open to children during the summer, where competent
teachers give instruction to children over ten years of age in music, manual training, sewing,
cooking, nature study, and color work.

The water supply of Pittsburgh is taken from the Allegheny River and pumped into reservoirs,
the highest of which is Herron Hill, five hundred and thirty feet above the river. A slow sand
filtration plant for the filtration of the entire supply is under construction and a part of
it is in operation. In this last year the Legislature has passed an act prohibiting the deposit
of sewage material in the rivers of the State, and this tardy action in the interest of decency
and health will stop the ravages of death through epidemic fevers caught from poisoned streams.

VI

Pittsburgh maintains by popular support one of the four symphony orchestras in America. She
has given many famous men to science, literature, and art. Her astronomical observatory is
known throughout the world. Her rich men are often liberal beyond their own needs, particularly
so William Thaw, who spent great sums for education and benevolence; Mrs. Mary Schenley, who
has given the city a great park, over four hundred acres in the very heart of its boundaries;
and Henry Phipps, who erected the largest conservatory for plants and flowers in our country.
There is one other, Andrew Carnegie, whose wise and continuous use of vast wealth for the public
good is nearly beyond human precedent.

If Pittsburgh people were called upon to name their best known singer, they would, of course,
with one accord, say Stephen C. Foster. His songs are verily written in the hearts of millions
of his fellow-creatures, for who has not sung "Old Folks at Home," "Nelly Bly," "My Old Kentucky
Home," and the others? Ethelbert Nevin is the strongest name among our musical composers, his
"Narcissus," "The Rosary," and many others being known throughout the world.

Charles Stanley Reinhart, Mary Cassatt, and John W. Alexander are the best known among our
painters. Henry O. Tanner, the only negro painter, was born in Pittsburgh and learned the rudiments
of his art here. Albert S. Wall, his son, A. Bryan Wall, George Hetzel, and John W. Beatty
have painted good pictures, as have another group which includes William A. Coffin, Martin
B. Leisser, Jaspar Lawman, Eugene A. Poole, Joseph R. Woodwell, William H. Singer, Clarence
M. Johns, and Johanna Woodwell Hailman. Thomas S. Clarke is a Pittsburgh painter and sculptor.
Philander C. Knox, United States Senator, and John Dalzell, member of the House of Representatives,
are prominent among those who have served Pittsburgh ably in the National Government.

VII

And how about letters? Has Pittsburgh a literature? Those rolling clouds of smoke, those mighty
industries, those men of brawn, those men of energy, that ceaseless calculation of wages and
dividends--can these produce an atmosphere for letters? It seems unthinkable. Yet hold! Only
the other day on the train a man who has been a resident of New York for thirty-five years
remarked in this author's presence that "Pittsburgh is the most intellectual city in America."
He had never visited Pittsburgh and the author did not and does not know his name. "How about
Boston?" asked another traveler. "Boston used to be, but is not now," he answered. Then I,
in my timid and artless way, ventured to ask him why he spoke thus of Pittsburgh. "Because,"
said he, "distant as I am from Pittsburgh, more inspiration in artistic and intellectual things
has come to me from that city than from any other place in America." But that may have been
his dinner or the cigar.

Literature I once attempted to define as the written record of thought and action. If this
be an adequate definition, then Pittsburgh writers have substantially enriched the field of
literature in every department, and given our city permanent fame as a place of letters. As
we begin our survey of the local field, the wonder grows that the literary production is so
large, and that the character of much of it is so very high. Let Pegasus champ his golden bit
as he may, and beat his hoof upon the empty air, Pittsburgh men and Pittsburgh women have ridden
the classic steed with grace and skill through all the flowered deviations of his bridal paths.
This is scarcely the place to attempt a critical estimate, and it would be an ungracious and
a presumptuous task for me to appraise the literary value of that work with any great degree
of detail. The occasion will hardly permit more than a list of names and titles; and while
pains have been taken to make this list complete, it is possible that some books may have been
overlooked, but truly by inadvertence only.

VIII

Perhaps the most important piece of literature from a local pen is Professor William M. Sloane's
"Life of Napoleon." This is a painstaking and authoritative record of the great Frenchman who
conquered everybody but himself. Dr. William J. Holland, once chancellor of the University
of Pittsburgh, now director of the Carnegie Museum, has given to the field of popular science
"The Butterfly Book"--an author who knows every butterfly by its Christian name. Then Andrew
Carnegie's "Triumphant Democracy" presents masses of statistics with such lightness of touch
as to make them seem a stirring narrative. His other books, "An American Four-in-Hand in Britain"
and "Round the World" present the vivid impressions of a keen traveler. His "Life of James
Watt" conveys a sympathetic portraiture of the inventor of the steam engine. His "Gospel of
Wealth" is a piece of deep-thinking discursiveness, although it really seems a superfluous
thesis, for Mr. Carnegie's best exposition of the gospel of wealth unfolds itself in two thousand
noble buildings erected all over the world for the diffusion of literature; in those splendid
conceptions, the Scottish Education Fund; the Washington Carnegie Institution for Scientific
Research; the Pension for College Professors, which has so much advanced the dignity and security
of teaching; the Pension for Aged and Disabled Workmen; the Hero Fund, with its provision of
aid to the injured and to the worthy poor; the many college endowments; and, greater than all,
the Peace Palace at The Hague, through which he will make his appeal to the conscience of civilization
during all time to organize and extend among the nations of the earth that system of arbitrated
justice which has been already established within the borders of each State.

But if I continue to group our Pittsburgh authors in this arbitrary fashion, those who come
at the end will think I mean the last to be least. Therefore, let me pursue the theme indiscriminately,
as I meant to do all along had not that same Pegasus, in spite of my defiance, run away at
the very start.

IX

The first Pittsburgh book that I can find in my hurried review of the field is "Modern Chivalry,"
by Hugh Henry Brackenridge. The third volume of this book was printed in Pittsburgh in 1796,
the first two having been published in Philadelphia. This writer's son, Henry M. Brackenridge,
was also an author, having written "History of the Late War between the United States and Great
Britain," "History of the Western Insurrection called the Whisky Insurrection, 1794," "Journal
of a Voyage up the River Missouri, Performed in 1811," "Recollections of Persons and Places
in the West," and several other books. Neville B. Craig wrote a "History of Pittsburgh," published
in 1851, which is still a work of standard reference. Another "History of Pittsburgh" was brought
out some ten years ago under the editorship of Erasmus Wilson, who has also published a volume
of "Quiet Observations," selected from his newspaper essays. But the most important, painstaking,
and accurate "History of Pittsburgh" which has yet been published is the one by Miss Sarah
H. Killikelly, published in 1906. Another book of hers, "Curious Questions," is an entertaining
collection of many queer things that have occurred in the world's history. Robert P. Nevin
wrote "Black Robes" and "Three Kings." Professor Samuel P. Langley was for many years in charge
of the Allegheny Observatory and won fame while here as a writer on scientific subjects. Also
the first models of his flying machine were made while he was a resident in Pittsburgh. W.
M. Darlington wrote "Fort Pitt" and edited the journals of Christopher Gist, who was Washington's
scout when the Father of his Country first came to Pittsburgh. "Two Men in the West" is the
title of a little book on travel by W. R. Halpin. Arthur G. Burgoyne, a newspaper writer, has
published "All Sorts of Pittsburghers." George Seibel has written three beautiful plays which
have not yet been produced because the modern stage managers seem to prefer to produce unbeautiful
plays. One of these is "Omar Khayyam," which was accepted and paid for by Richard Mansfield,
who died before he could arrange for its production. Another is "Christopher Columbus," and
he has just finished an important tragedy entitled "OEdipus," dealing artistically with a horrifying
story, which has been accepted for early production by Mr. Robert Mantel. Mr. Seibel has published
a monograph on "The Mormon Problem." Charles P. Shiras wrote the "Redemption of Labor," and
a drama, "The Invisible Prince," which was played in the old Pittsburgh Theater. Bartley Campbell
was the most prolific writer of plays that Pittsburgh has yet produced, and his melodramas
have been played in nearly every theater in America. H. G. Donnelly, well known as a playwright,
was also a Pittsburgher. Mrs. Mary Roberts Rinehart is a young author who is coming to the
front as a writer of successful dramas, stories, and books. Her plays, "The Double Life" and
"By Order of the Court" have been produced, and a novel, "The Circular Staircase," has just
appeared from the press. My own little play, "The Brayton Episode," was played by Miss Sarah
Truax at the Alvin Theater, Pittsburgh, June 24, 1903, and by Miss Eleanor Moretti at the Fifth
Avenue Theater, New York, January 15, 1905.

Rev. W. G. Mackay wrote tales of history under the title of "The Skein of Life." Father Morgan
M. Sheedy and Rev. Dr. George Hodges, who used to strive together in Pittsburgh to surpass
each other in tearing down the walls of religious prejudice that keep people out of the Kingdom
of Heaven, have each given us several books on social and religious topics composed on the
broad and generous lines of thought which only such sensible teachers know how to employ. Among
Dr. Hodges' books are "Christianity between Sundays," the "Heresy of Cain," and "Faith and
Social Service"; while Father Sheedy has published "Social Topics."

That devoted student of nature, Dr. Benjamin Cutler Jillson, wrote a book called "Home Geology,"
and another, "River Terraces In and Near Pittsburgh," which carry the fancy into far-off antiquity.
Professor Daniel Carhart, of the University of Pittsburgh, has given us "Field Work for Civil
Engineers" and "Treatise on Plane Surveying." From J. Heron Foster we have "A Full Account
of the Great Fire at Pittsburgh in 1845." Adelaide M. Nevin published "Social Mirror," and
Robert P. Nevin "Poems," a book with mood and feeling. Dr. Stephen A. Hunter, a clergyman,
is the author of an erudite work entitled "Manual of Therapeutics and Pharmacy in the Chinese
Language."

Walter Scott, who, after taking a course at the University of Edinburgh, came to Pittsburgh
in 1826, was a very distinguished preacher and author. His greatest reputation was gained in
his work in association with Alexander Campbell in establishing the principles of the now mighty
congregation known as the Christian, or Disciples, Church. His books are: "The Gospel Restored,"
"The Great Demonstration," and "The Union of Christians."

A memoir of Professor John L. Lincoln, by his son, W. L. Lincoln, gives a record of a life
so spent that many men were truly made better thereby. Father Andrew A. Lambing, President
of the Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania, has written useful monographs on the early
history of this region, and he is one of the first authorities in that field. He has also composed
books on religious subjects. E. W. Duckwell wrote "Bacteriology Applied to the Canning and
Preserving of Food Products."

Richard Realf was a poet "whose songs gushed from his heart," and some of them hold a place
in literature. His "Monarch of the Forges" breathes the deep spirit of industrial life as he
found it in Pittsburgh.

Mr. Lee S. Smith, now (1908) president of the Chamber of Commerce, has published an interesting
book entitled "Through Egypt to Palestine," describing his travels in the Orient.

Our men who have written most knowingly on industrial topics are James M. Swank and Joseph
D. Weeks. A young writer, Francis Hill, has published a very readable boys' story, "Outlaws
of Horseshoe Hole," and Arthur Sanwood Pier has published "The Pedagogues," a novel satirizing
the Harvard Summer School.

Rev. Henry C. McCook's very successful novel, "The Latimers," is an engaging study of the whisky
insurrection of early Pittsburgh days. Thomas B. Plimpton is remembered by some as a writer
of verse. Judge J. E. Parke and Judge Joseph Mellon have written historical essays. Josiah
Copley wrote "Gathering Beulah." Logan Conway is the author of "Money and Banking." He has
also written a series of essays on "Evolution." Miss Cara Reese has published a little story
entitled "And She Got All That." Miss Willa Sibert Cather has just published her "Poems." Charles
McKnight's "Old Fort Duquesne; or Captain Jack the Scout" is a stirring book that has fired
the hearts of many boys who love a good tale. William Harvey Brown's story, "On the South African
Frontier," was written and published while he was a curator in the Carnegie Museum.

Pittsburgh has produced a group of standard schoolbooks--always of the very first importance
in the literature of any country. Among these are the books by Andrew Burt and Milton B. Goff,
and a series of readers by Lucius Osgood.

Henry J. Ford's "Rise and Growth of American Politics" is a well-studied work. Henry A. Miller's
"Money and Bimetallism" is a conscientious statement of his investigations of that question.
Judge Marshall Brown has written two books, "Bulls and Blunders" and "Wit and Humor of Famous
Sayings." Frank M. Bennett's "Steam Navy of the United States" is a useful technical work.

L. C. Van Noppen, after pursuing his studies of Dutch literature in Holland, came to Pittsburgh
and wrote a translation of Vondel's great Dutch classical poem "Lucifer." Vondel published
the original of this work some ten or fifteen years before Milton's "Paradise Lost" appeared,
and critics have tried to show by the deadly parallel column that Milton drew the inspiration
for some of his highest poetical flights from Vondel. It is probable, however, that Milton
was unconscious of the existence of Vondel's work.

S. L. Fleishman has translated the poems of Heine with tenderness and feeling. Ella Boyce Kirk
has written several educational pamphlets. Morgan Neville published a poem, "Comparisons."
From that Prince Rupert of the astronomers, Professor James E. Keeler, who has made more than
one fiery dash across the borderland of known science, we have "Spectroscopic Observations
of Nebulæ." That truly gifted woman, Margaretta Wade Deland, was born in Pittsburgh in 1857
and resided here until her marriage in 1880. Among her books are "John Ward, Preacher," "The
Story of a Child," "Philip and His Wife," and "Old Chester Tales." Jane Grey Swisshelm wrote
the recollections of an eventful experience under the title "Half a Century of Life." Nicholas
Biddle composed a studious "Life of Sebastian Cabot," and another book, "Modern Chivalry."
Mrs. Annie Wade has written poems and stories. The city has fathered many able writers against
slavery and intemperance, among whom was William H. Burleigh, who wrote "Our Country." William
B. Conway wrote "Cottage on the Cliff." From Rev. John Black we have "The Everlasting Kingdom,"
and Rev. John Tassey published a "Life of Christ." William G. Johnston's interesting book,
"Experiences of a Forty-niner," was published in 1892. John Reed Scott has published two successful
novels, "The Colonel of the Red Hussars" and "Beatrix of Clare." Martha Fry Boggs wrote "A
Romance of New Virginia." Then there are "Polly and I," by Cora Thurmston; "Free at Last" and
"Emma's Triumph," by Mrs. Jane S. Collins; "Her Brother Donnard," by Emily E. Verder; "Essays,"
by Anna Pierpont Siviter; "Human Progress," by Thomas S. Blair; "Steel: A Manual for Steel
Users," a useful monograph by William Metcalf; and "Memoir of John B. Gibson," by Colonel Thomas
P. Roberts. Then there are some poor things from my own pen, if, in order to make the record
complete, I may add them at the end--"Oliver Cromwell: A History" (1894); "John Marmaduke:
A Romance of the English Invasion of Ireland in 1649" (1897); "Beowulf: A Poem" (1901); "Penruddock
of the White Lambs," a novel (1903); "The Brayton Episode," a play (1903); "The Sword of the
Parliament," a play (1907); and this, "A Short History of Pittsburgh" (1908).

And such is the list. Imperfect though it may be, it is the best that I have been able to compose.
But how large and full the measure of it all is! History, biography, philosophy, religion,
nature, science, criticism, government, coinage and finance, art, poetry, the drama, travel,
adventure, fiction, society, education, all avenues of human activity, all themes of human
speculation, have been covered in books written with more or less interest and power by men
and women of Pittsburgh. Much of this volume of production is ephemeral, but some of it on
the other hand is undoubtedly a permanent addition to the world's literature.

X

One word more before leaving this subject. Literature has not until recently enjoyed that degree
of attention from the public press of Pittsburgh which it deserves. It ought to be the concern
of every human unit in the nation to receive honest guidance in the development of literature;
for literature, once again, is the written record of thought and action. Mobs will melt away
when the units in the mob begin to think, and they will think when they read. Then will the
law be paramount, and then will our institutions be safe. Thousands of our serious people annually
subscribe for literary reviews of one kind or another in order that they may follow the rapid
expansion of the written record of the thought and action of the world, when the whole department
might be covered so admirably by our daily newspapers. Should not the newspaper give each household
practically all it needs in criticism and information outside of the printed books themselves?
How easily we could spare some of the glaring and exaggerated headlines over the daily record
of crime, misconduct, and false leadership, which inflame the mind and the passions with evil
fire, and how joyfully we would welcome instead an intelligent, conscientious, comprehensive,
discriminating, piquant--in short, a masterful discussion from day to day of the written record
of the thought and action of the world as unfolded in its statesmanship, its oratory, its education,
its heroism, and its literature.

XI

And so my little story of Pittsburgh comes to an end. It is the story of a great achievement
in the building of a city, and the development of a community within its boundaries. I have
sometimes heard a sneer at Pittsburgh as a place where undigested wealth is paramount. I have
never beheld the city in that character. On the contrary, I have, on frequent occasions, seen
the assemblage of men native here where a goodly section of the brain and power of the nation
was represented. There is much wealth here, but the dominant spirit of those who have it is
not a spirit of pride and luxury and arrogance. There is much poverty here, but it is the poverty
of hope which effort and opportunity will transform into affluence. And especially is there
here a spirit of good fellowship, of help one to another, and of pride in the progress of the
intellectual life. And with all of these comes a growth toward the best civic character which
in its aggregate expression is probably like unto the old Prophet's idea of that righteousness
which exalteth a nation.

INDEX

Adams, Gabriel, Mayor, 51

Alexander, John W., 91, 106

Allegheny, made county-seat, 40;
  county-seat changed to Pittsburgh, 40;
  annexed to Pittsburgh, 52

Allegheny Cemetery, 90

Allegheny County, erection of, 40;
  iron and steel products of, 84

Allegheny Observatory, 84, 99

Allegheny River improved, 82

Allegheny Theological Seminary, 102

Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers, 71, 78

Amherst, General, captures Fort Frontenac, 29

Anderson, Edwin H., 91

Archer, Frederick, 94

Archer, William, 100

Armstrong, Colonel, raises English flag over Fort Duquesne, 29

Artists, list of, 106

Astronomical Observatory, 91, 106

Authors, list of, 112

Ball, Sir Robert S., 96

Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company, 49, 60, 81

Barker, Joseph, Mayor, 51

Baron, Father, 29

Beatty, John W., 92, 108

Beatty, Rev. Mr., 29

Beaujeu, Captain, attacks Braddock's army, 22;
  killed, 23

Bell, C. F. Moberly, 96

Bénédite, Leonce, 95

Bennett, Frank M., 120

Biddle, Nicholas, 121

Bingham, William, Mayor, 51

Black, John, 121

Blackmore, James, Mayor, 52

Blair, Francis P., 55

Blair, Thomas S., 121

"Blockhouse," built by Bouquet, 34;
  occupied by Dr. John Connelly, 37;
  used by Colonial troops in Revolution, 37

Boggs, Martha Fry, 121

Bouquet, Colonel Henry, builds "Blockhouse," 34;
  leads army at Battle of Bushy Run, 35

Brackenridge, Henry M., 112

Brackenridge, Hugh Henry, 112

Braddock, General Edward, marches upon Fort Duquesne, 21;
  wounded in battle, 24;
  his army defeated, 24;
  death of, 25

Braddock's defeat, effect of on Colonies, 25

Brashear, John A., 85

Breckinridge, John C., 57

Broadhead, Colonel, 38

Brown, A. M., Recorder, 52

Brown, Joseph, 70

Brown, J. O., Recorder, 52

Brown, Marshall, 120

Brown, William Harvey, 118

Brush, Jared M., Mayor, 52

Bryce, Right Honorable James, 95

Buchanan, James, 57

Burgoyne, Arthur G., 113

Burleigh, William H., 121

Burt, Andrew, 118

Bushy Run, Battle of, 35

Caldwell, John, 94

Calvary Cemetery, 90

Campbell, Alexander, 117

Campbell, Bartley, 114

Carhart, Daniel, 116

Carnegie, Andrew, 85, 96, 106, 110

Carnegie Institute, 91, 99

Carnegie Steel Company, 71, 77

Carnegie Technical Schools, 91, 94

Cassatt, Alexander Johnston, 85

Cassatt, Mary, 106

Cather, Willa Sibert, 118

Celeron, Louis, 16

Charitable institutions, 103

Chatham, Earl of (William Pitt), 25, 29, 37

Church, Samuel, 83

Church, Samuel Harden, 94, 114, 121

Civil War, 53

Clarke, Thomas S., 123

Clay, Henry, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Cleveland, Grover, 95

Coffin, William A., 108

Collins annexed to Pittsburgh, 52

Collins, Jane S., 121

Composers, list of, 106

Constant, Baron d'Estournelles de, 95

Constitutional Convention, 53

Contrecoeur, Captain, visited by Washington, 17;
  his reply received by English, 19;
  captures fort at Pittsburgh and names it Fort Duquesne, 20

Conway, Logan, 118

Conway, William B., 121

Copley, Josiah, 118

Country Club, 90

Court-house, architect of, 103;
  cost of, 103

Craig, Neville B., 113

Cranston, Sir Robert, 96

Craver, Harrison W., 92

Dalzell, John, 108

Darlington, W. M., 113

Darragh, John, Mayor, 51

Daughters of American Revolution, 34

Davis Island Dam, 82

Dayton, William L., 57

Defiance, Fort, built by General Wayne, 42

Deland, Margaretta Wade, 120

Denny, Ebenezer, Mayor, 51

Denny, Governor, 29

Dickens, Charles, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Dickhuth, Colonel Gustav, 96

Diehl, William J., Mayor, 52

Dinwiddie, Governor, sends Washington to Pittsburgh, 14

Donnelly, H. G., 114

Doumer, Paul, 95

Duckwell, E. W., 117

Dunfermline, 28

Dunmore, Governor, opens land office in Pittsburgh, 35

Duquesne, Fort, built and named by French, 20;
  captured by English, 29;
  blown up and burned by French, 29;
  taken possession of by English, 29;
  name changed to Fort Pitt, 29

East Liberty Academy, 102

Ecuyer, Simon, leads attack on Fort Pitt, 35

Elgar, Sir Edward, 96

Emancipation Proclamation, 53

England, war with France, 15

Enlart, Camille, 95

Fang, Wu Ting, 95

Farragut, Admiral, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Fleishman, S. L., 120

Forbes, General, captures Fort Duquesne, 14;
  names captured fort Pittsburgh, 14, 29;
  his letter to Pitt announcing capture and renaming of Fort Duquesne, 29

Ford, Henry J., 118

Ford, Henry P., Mayor, 52

Foster, J. Heron, 116

Foster, Stephen C., 106

Founder's Day, 95

France, war with England, 15

Franklin, Benjamin, 21

Fremont, John C., 57

French Revolution, 43

Frew, William N., 94

Frick, Henry C., 72, 76, 77, 85

Frontenac, Fort, captured by General Amherst, 29

Fulton, Andrew, Mayor, 52

Gilder, Richard Watson, 95

Gist, Christopher, accompanies Washington to Pittsburgh, 14;
  hardships of journey to Fort Leboeuff, 17, 18, 19;
  saves Washington from drowning, 19

Gleim School, 102

Goff, Milton B., 118

Gourley, Henry I., Mayor, 52

Grant, General U. S., visits Pittsburgh, 58

Grant, Major, defeated at Grant's Hill and killed, 28

Great Meadows, Battle of, 20

Greeley, Horace, 55, 56, 57

Greensburg, 40

Guthrie, George W., Mayor, 52

Guthrie, John B., Mayor, 51

Guthrie, P. N., 70

Guyesuta, 17

Hailman, Johanna Woodwell, 108

Hall of Botany, 102

Halpin, W. R., 113

Hamerschlag, Arthur A., 94

Hancock, John, 38

Hand, General Edward, plans expedition against Indians, 38

Hay, Alexander, Mayor, 51

Hays, W. B., Recorder and Mayor, 52

Heinz Company, 84

Herbert, Victor, 94

Herron Hill Reservoir, 105

Herron, John, Mayor, 51

Herr's Island, 19

Hetzel, George, 108

Highland Park, 90

Hill, Francis, 117

Hodges, George, 116

Holland, W. J., 94, 110

Homestead Steel Works, 68

Homestead strike, 71

Homewood Cemetery, 90

Hopkins, Anderson H., 91

Hospitals, 103

Howard, William J., Mayor, 51

Hunter, Stephen A., 116

Ihne, Ernst von, 96

Indians cede land about Pittsburgh to Colonies, 35

Irvine, General William, placed in command of Fort Pitt, 39

Irwin, William W., Mayor, 51

Jackson, George N., 56

Jefferson, Joseph, 95

Jillson, Benjamin Cutler, 116

Johns, Clarence M., 108

Johnson, President, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Johnston, Governor, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Johnston, William G., 121

Johnstown Flood, 58

Jumonville, death of, 20

Keeler, James E., 120

Kensington Iron Works, 83

Kerr, William, Mayor, 51

Keyashuta, Indian chief, 17

Killikelly, Sarah H., 113

King, John A., 55

Kirk, Ella Boyce, 120

Knox, Philander C., 108

Koser, Reinhold, 96

Kossuth, Louis, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Lady of Mercy Academy, 102

Lafayette, Fort, built, 42

Lafayette, General, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Lambing, A. A., 117

Langley, Samuel P., 113

Lawman, Jaspar, 108

Lawrenceville annexed to Pittsburgh, 52

Leboeuff, Fort, 17

Leisser, Martin B., 108

Lexington, Battle of, 37

Liberty annexed to Pittsburgh, 52

Liddell, Robert, Mayor, 52

Ligneris, Captain, surrenders Fort Duquesne, 29

Lincoln, Abraham, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Lincoln, John L., 117

Lincoln, W. L., 117

Little, William, Mayor, 51

Loewenfeld, His Excellency Lieutenant General Alfred von, 95

Logstown, storehouses built by Ohio Company, 16;
  captured by French, 16

Louisburg, capture of, 28

Lowrie, Walter B., Mayor, 51

Lowry, James, Mayor, 51

Lyon, Robert W., Mayor, 52

"Maarten Maartens," 96

Macbeth, George A., 94

Macbeth, James Currie, 96

Mackay, W. G., 116

Magee, C. L., 102

Mail route to Philadelphia established, 40

Mansfield, Robert, 114

Mantel, Robert, 114

Mayflower, landing of, 53

McCallin, William, Mayor, 52

McCarthy, William C., Mayor, 52

McCarthy, W. L., Mayor, 52

McClintock, Jonas R., Mayor, 51

McConway, William, 95

McCook, Henry C., 118

McCormick, Samuel Black, 99

McCrea, James, 78

McKenna, Bernard, Mayor, 52

McKinley, William, 95

McKnight, Charles, 118

Mellon, Joseph, 118

Mellor, Charles C., 94

Metcalf, William, 121

Miller, Henry A., 118

Milton, John, 120

Mitchell, P. Chalmers, 107

Monongahela River improved, 83

Monroe, President, visited Pittsburgh, 58

Montcalm, death of, 31

Moretti, Eleanor, 114

Morgan, Colonel George, 38

Morley, John, 95

Murray, Magnus M., Mayor, 51

Necessity, Fort, built by Washington, 21;
  captured by French, 21

Neville, Morgan, 120

Nevin, Adelaide M., 116

Nevin, Ethelbert, 106

Nevin, Robert P., 113, 116

Newspapers, list of, 40, 113

New York Central Lines, 60, 81

Niagara, Fort, fall of, 31

Nixon Theater, 103

Oakland annexed to Pittsburgh, 52

O'Hara, James, 84

Ohio & Pennsylvania Railroad, 49

Ohio Company formed, 16

Osgood, Lucius, 118

Parke, J. E., 118

Paur, Emil, 94

Pearson, A. L., 63

Peebles annexed to Pittsburgh, 52

Penn family, purchased Pittsburgh region from Indians, 39;
  their title annulled, 39

Pennsylvania, dispute with Virginia settled, 40

Pennsylvania and Ohio R. R. Co. incorporated, 48

Pennsylvania Canal, proposed, 47;
  construction authorized, 47;
  canal completed, 48;
  termini of, 48;
  portage railroad, 48;
  cost, 48;
  sold to Pennsylvania Railroad Company, 48;
  abandoned, 49

Pennsylvania College for Women, 102

Pennsylvania Railroad Company, 48, 49, 60, 81, 85

Pennsylvania, Western University of. See University of Pittsburgh

Pettigrew, Samuel, Mayor, 51

Phipps Conservatory, 102

Phipps, Henry, 85, 102, 106

Pier, Arthur Stanwood, 118

Pinkerton, Robert A., 76

Pitcairn, Robert, 94

Pitt annexed to Pittsburgh, 52

Pitt, Fort, building of first fort, 30;
  building of second fort, 31;
  abandoned, 36;
  mutiny at, 39;
  General William Irvine put in command, 39;
  first court held, 40

Pitt, William, Earl of Chatham, 25, 29, 37

Pittsburgh, site selected for fort, 13, 14;
  site claimed by Virginia, 14;
  said to have been named by Washington, 14;
  French attempt to make settlement, 16;
  explored by Louis Celeron, 16;
  Washington's first impressions of, 17;
  first permanent white settlement, 20;
  captured by Contrecoeur, 20;
  named Fort Duquesne, 20;
  captured from French by English, 29;
  name changed to Pittsburgh, 29;
  first Fort Pitt built, 30;
  second Fort Pitt built, 31;
  attacked by Indians under Simon Ecuyer, 35;
  land ceded to Colonies by Indians,35;
  land office opened, 35;
  made county seat, 40;
  first court held, 40;
  ducking-stool erected, 40;
  size of in 1786, 40;
  mail route to Philadelphia established, 40;
  new fort built and named Fort Lafayette, 42;
  town laid out, 50;
  incorporated as a borough, 50;
  chartered as a city, 50;
  new charter adopted in 1887, 50;
  "Ripper" charter adopted, 50;
  list of mayors, 51;
  first Republican Convention, 53;
  distinguished visitors, 58;
  great fire, 58;
  railroad riots, 59;
  consolidation of Pittsburgh and Allegheny, 52;
  present population, 79, 81;
  tonnage compared with other cities, 82;
  surrounded by rich coal and gas fields, 83;
  imports in 1907, 83;
  manufacture of iron begun, 83;
  iron and steel statistics, 83, 84, 86;
  value of various products, 84;
  first glass works built, 84;
  rank as a glass-producing center, 84;
  as a banking center, 85;
  tax valuation of property, 86;
  public buildings, 103;
  hospitals, 103;
  charitable institutions, 103;
  water supply, 105

Pittsburgh Academy, 41, 98, 102

Pittsburgh and Connellsville Railroad, 49

Pittsburgh and Lake Erie Canal, 81

Pittsburgh and Lake Erie Railroad, 49

Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad, 49

Pittsburgh Country Club, 90

Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago Railroad, 49

Pittsburgh Harbor, 82

Pittsburgh Orchestra, 94, 106

Pittsburgh riots, 59

Pittsburgh, University of, 41, 98

Plimpton, Thomas B., 118

Pontiac plans attack on whites, 34

Poole, Eugene A., 108

Poorten-Schwartz, Joost Marius Willem van der ("Maarten Maartens"), 96

Preece, Sir William Henry, 96

Quebec, fall of, 31

Realf, Richard, 117

Rebellion, War of, 53

Reed, James H., 94

Reese, Cara, 118

Reformed Presbyterian Theological Seminary, 102

Reid, Whitelaw, 95

Reinhart, Charles Stanley, 106

Republican Association, 54

Republican Party, founding of, 52;
  first Convention, 55;
  first candidates, 57

Rhys, John, 96

Richardson, H. H., 103

Riddle, Robert M., Mayor, 51

Rinehart, Mary Roberts, 114

"Ripper" charter, 50

Riverview Park, 90

Roberts, E. S., 96

Roberts, Thomas P., 121

Robertson, William, 96

Ross, John, 96

St. Clair, General Arthur, sent against Indians, 42;
  defeated, 42

Sassoonan, 16

Sawyer, B. C., Mayor, 51

Schaper, Fritz, 96

Schenley, Mrs. Mary, 106

Schenley Park, 90, 91

Scott, Walter, 116

Seibel, George, 114

Semple, Samuel, 35

Seward, William H., Secretary of State, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Sheedy, Morgan M., 116

Shiras, Charles R., 114

Singer, William H., 108

Siviter, Anna Pierpont, 121

Slavery, introduction into
  United States, 53;
  abolished, 53

Sloane, William H., 110

Smith, Lee S., 117

Snowden, John M., Mayor, 51

Stanwix, General, builds new Fort Pitt, 31

Stead, William T., 107

Stuart-Mitchell School, 102

Swank, James M., 117

Swinderen, R. de Marees van, 96

Swisshelm, Jane Grey, 121

Tanner, Henry O., 108

Tassey, John, 121

Taylor, President, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Thaw, William, 106

Thomson, James, Mayor, 51

Thurmston, Cora, 121

Thurston School, 102

Ticonderoga, capture of, 28

Trent, Captain William, established first permanent white
  settlement in Pittsburgh, 20

Truax, Sarah, 114

Turtle Creek, 19

Uniontown, fort at, 21

United States Steel Corporation, 85

University of Pittsburgh, 41, 98

Ursuline Young Ladies' Academy, 102

Van Noppen, L. C., 120

Venango, 18

Verder, Emily E., 121

Virginia, claims site of Pittsburgh, 14;
  sends Washington to retake Fort Duquesne, 20;
  dispute with Pennsylvania settled, 40

Volz, Ferdinand E., Mayor, 51

Vondel, 120

Wabash R. R. Co., 49, 74

Wade, Annie, 121

Wales, Prince of, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Wall, A. Bryan, 108

Wall, Albert S., 108

Washington, George, the first Pittsburgher, 13;
  first visits Pittsburgh, 13, 17;
  his visits to Pittsburgh, 13, 14, 17, 35;
  said to have named Pittsburgh, 14;
  first impressions of site of Pittsburgh, 17;
  hardships of journey to Fort Leboeuff, 17, 18, 19;
  shot at by his Indian guide, 19;
  saved from drowning by  Gist, 19;
  sent to retake Fort Duquesne, 20;
  directs the retreat of Braddock's army, 24;
  commands militia at Fort Duquesne, 28;
  last visit to Pittsburgh, 35;
  warns General St. Clair against Indians, 42;
  sends army to suppress whisky insurrection, 44

Wayne, Fort, built by General Wayne, 42

Wayne, General Anthony, sent against Indians, 42;
  builds Fort Defiance and Fort Wayne, 42;
  defeats Indians,  42

Weaver, Henry A., Mayor, 51

Webster, Daniel, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Weeks, Joseph D., 117

Welles, Gideon, Secretary of  Navy, visits Pittsburgh, 58

Western Theological Seminary, 102

Western University of Pennsylvania. See University of Pittsburgh

Westinghouse Company, 85

Westinghouse, George, 85

Whisky insurrection, 42

William II, Emperor of Germany, 101

Wilson, Erasmus, 113

Wilson, George, Mayor, 51

Wolfe, death of, 31

Woodwell, Joseph R., 108

Zoölogical garden, 102

Page 30 (026.png) - Left spelling of Missisippi as is in quoted letter

Index (026.png) - Corrected spelling of Breckinridge, John C. to match correct spelling as
in text (based on Internet search)

The name Rhys appears once in the text and once in the Index.  In the print copy, there is
a carat over the y which is not included in this version.

The name Contrecoeur appears throughout the text with an oe ligature which is removed for this
version.  Similarly OEdipus appears once herein without the OE ligature.

