With the exceptions of portions of California, Arizona, and Texas the average annual surface
temperature of the dry-farm territory of the United States ranges from 40 deg to 55 deg F.
The average is not far from 45 deg F. This places most of the dry-farm territory in the class
of cold regions, though a small area on the extreme east border may be classed as temperate,
and parts of California and Arizona as warm. The range in temperature from the highest in summer
to the lowest in winter is considerable, but not widely different from other similar parts
of the United States. The range is greatest in the interior mountainous districts, and lowest
along the seacoast. The daily range of the highest and lowest temperatures for any one day
is generally higher over dry-farm sections than over humid districts. In the Plateau regions
of the semiarid country the average daily variation is from 30 to 35 deg F., while east of
the Mississippi it is only about 20 deg F. This greater daily range is chiefly due to the clear
skies and scant vegetation which facilitate excessive warming by day and cooling by night.

The important temperature question for the dry-farmer is whether the growing season is sufficiently
warm and long to permit the maturing of crops. There are few places, even at high altitudes
in the region considered, where the summer temperature is so low as to retard the growth of
plants. Likewise, the first and last killing frosts are ordinarily so far apart as to allow
an ample growing season. It must be remembered that frosts are governed very largely by local
topographic features, and must be known from a local point of view. It is a general law that
frosts are more likely to occur in valleys than on hillsides, owing to the downward drainage
of the cooled air. Further, the danger of frost increases with the altitude. In general, the
last killing frost in spring over the dry-farm territory varies from March 15 to May 29, and
the first killing frost in autumn from September 15 to November 15. These limits permit of
the maturing of all ordinary farm crops, especially the grain crops.

Relative humidity

At a definite temperature, the atmosphere can hold only a certain amount of water vapor. When
the air can hold no more, it is said to be saturated. When it is not saturated, the amount
of water vapor actually held by the air is expressed in percentages of the quantity required
for saturation. A relative humidity of 100 per cent means that the air is saturated; of 50
per cent, that it is only one half saturated. The drier the air is, the more rapidly does the
water evaporate into it. To the dry-farmer, therefore, the relative humidity or degree of dryness
of the air is of very great importance. According to Professor Henry, the chief characteristics
of the geographic distribution of relative humidity in the United States are as follows:--

(1) Along the coasts there is a belt of high humidity at all seasons, the percentage of saturation
ranging from 75 to 80 per cent.

(2) Inland, from about the 70th meridian eastward to the Atlantic coast, the amount varies
between 70 and 75 per cent.

(3) The dry region is in the Southwest, where the average annual value is not over 50 per cent.
In this region are included Arizona, New Mexico, western Colorado, and the greater portion
of both Utah and Nevada. The amount of annual relative humidity in the remaining portion of
the elevated district, between the 100th meridian on the east to the Sierra Nevada and the
Cascades on the west, varies between 55 and 65 per cent. In July, August, and September, the
mean values in the Southwest sink as low as 20 to 30 per cent, while along the Pacific coast
districts they continue about 80 per cent the year round. In the Atlantic coast districts,
and generally east from the Mississippi River, the variation from month to month is not great.
April is probably the driest month of the year.

The air of the dry-farm territory, therefore, on the whole, contains considerably less than
two thirds the amount of moisture carried by the air of the humid states. This means that evaporation
from plant leaves and soil surfaces will go on more rapidly in semiarid than in humid regions.
Against this danger, which cannot he controlled, the dry-farmer must take special precautions.

Sunshine

The amount of sunshine in a dry-farm section is also of importance. Direct sunshine promotes
plant growth, but at the same time it accelerates the evaporation of water from the soil. The
whole dry-farm territory receives more sunshine than do the humid sections. In fact, the amount
of sunshine may roughly be said to increase as the annual rainfall decreases. Over the larger
part of the arid and semiarid sections the sun shines over 70 per cent of the time.

Winds

The winds of any locality, owing to their moisture-dissipating power play an important part
in the success of dry-farming. A persistent wind will offset much of the benefit of a heavy
rainfall and careful cultivation. While great general laws have been formulated regarding the
movements of the atmosphere, they are of minor value in judging the effect of wind on any farming
district. Local observations, however, may enable the farmer to estimate the probable effect
of the winds and thus to formulate proper cultural means of protection. In general, those living
in a district are able to describe it without special observations as windy or quiet. In the
dry-farm territory of the United States the one great region of relatively high and persistent
winds is the Great Plains region east of the Rocky Mountains. Dry-farmers in that section will
of necessity be obliged to adopt cultural methods that will prevent the excessive evaporation
naturally induced by the unhindered wind, and the possible blowing of well-tilled fallow land.

Summary

The dry-farm territory is characterized by a low rainfall, averaging between 10 and 20 inches,
the distribution of which falls into two distinct types: a heavy winter and spring with a light
summer precipitation, and a heavy spring and summer with a light winter precipitation. Snow
falls over most of the territory, but does not lie long outside of the mountain states. The
whole dry-farm territory may be classed as temperate to cold; relatively high and persistent
winds blow only over the Great Plains, though local conditions cause strong regular winds in
many other places; the air is dry and the sunshine is very abundant. In brief, little water
falls upon the dry-farm territory, and the climatic factors are of a nature to cause rapid
evaporation.

In view of this knowledge, it is not surprising that thousands of farmers, employing, often
carelessly agricultural methods developed in humid sections, have found only hardships and
poverty on the present dry-farm empire of the United States.

Drouth

Drouth is said to be the arch enemy of the dry-farmer, but few agree upon its meaning. For
the purposes of this volume, drouth may be defined as a condition under which crops fail to
mature because of an insufficient supply of water. Providence has generally been charged with
causing drouths, but under the above definition, man is usually the cause. Occasionally, relatively
dry years occur, but they are seldom dry enough to cause crop failures if proper methods of
farming have been practiced. There are four chief causes of drouth: (1) Improper or careless
preparation of the soil; (2) failure to store the natural precipitation in the soil; (3) failure
to apply proper cultural methods for keeping the moisture in the soil until needed by plants,
and (4) sowing too much seed for the available soil-moisture.

Crop failures due to untimely frosts, blizzards, cyclones, tornadoes, or hail may perhaps be
charged to Providence, but the dry-farmer must accept the responsibility for any crop injury
resulting from drouth. A fairly accurate knowledge of the climatic conditions of the district,
a good understanding of the principles of agriculture without irrigation under a low rainfall,
and a vigorous application of these principles as adapted to the local climatic conditions
will make dry-farm failures a rarity.

CHAPTER V

DRY-FARM SOILS

Important as is the rainfall in making dry-farming successful, it is not more so than the soils
of the dry-farms. On a shallow soil, or on one penetrated with gravel streaks, crop failures
are probable even under a large rainfall; but a deep soil of uniform texture, unbroken by gravel
or hardpan, in which much water may be stored, and which furnishes also an abundance of feeding
space for the roots, will yield large crops even under a very small rainfall. Likewise, an
infertile soil, though it be deep, and under a large precipitation, cannot be depended on for
good crops; but a fertile soil, though not quite so deep, nor under so large a rainfall, will
almost invariably bring large crops to maturity.

A correct understanding of the soil, from the surface to a depth of ten feet, is almost indispensable
before a safe Judgment can be pronounced upon the full dry-farm possibilities of a district.
Especially is it necessary to know (a) the depth, (b) the uniformity of structure, and (c)
the relative fertility of the soil, in order to plan an intelligent system of farming that
will be rationally adapted to the rainfall and other climatic factors.

It is a matter of regret that so much of our information concerning the soils of the dry-farm
territory of the United States and other countries has been obtained according to the methods
and for the needs of humid countries, and that, therefore, the special knowledge of our arid
and semiarid soils needed for the development of dry-farming is small and fragmentary. What
is known to-day concerning the nature of arid soils and their relation to cultural processes
under a scanty rainfall is due very largely to the extensive researches and voluminous writings
of Dr. E. W. Hilgard, who for a generation was in charge of the agricultural work of the state
of California. Future students of arid soils must of necessity rest their investigations upon
the pioneer work done by Dr. Hilgard. The contents of this chapter are in a large part gathered
from Hilgard's writings.

The formation of soils

"Soil is the more or less loose and friable material in which, by means of their roots, plants
may or do find a foothold and nourishment, as well as other conditions of growth." Soil is
formed by a complex process, broadly known as weathering, from the rocks which constitute the
earth's crust. Soil is in fact only pulverized and altered rock. The forces that produce soil
from rocks are of two distinct classes, physical and chemical. The physical agencies of soil
production merely cause a pulverization of the rock; the chemical agencies, on the other hand,
so thoroughly change the essential nature of the soil particles that they are no longer like
the rock from which they were formed.

Of the physical agencies, temperature changes are first in order of time, and perhaps of first
importance. As the heat of the day increases, the rock expands, and as the cold night approaches,
contracts. This alternate expansion and contraction, in time, cracks the surfaces of the rocks.
Into the tiny crevices thus formed water enters from the falling snow or rain. When winter
comes, the water in these cracks freezes to ice, and in so doing expands and widens each of
the cracks. As these processes are repeated from day to day, from year to year, and from generation
to generation, the surfaces of the rocks crumble. The smaller rocks so formed are acted upon
by the same agencies, in the same manner, and thus the process of pulverization goes on.

It is clear, then, that the second great agency of soil formation, which always acts in conjunction
with temperature changes, is freezing water. The rock particles formed in this manner are often
washed down into the mountain valleys, there caught by great rivers, ground into finer dust,
and at length deposited in the lower valleys. Moving water thus becomes another physical agency
of soil production. Most of the soils covering the great dry-farm territory of the United States
and other countries have been formed in this way.

In places, glaciers moving slowly down the canons crush and grind into powder the rock over
which they pass and deposit it lower down as soils. In other places, where strong winds blow
with frequent regularity, sharp soil grains are picked up by the air and hurled against the
rocks, which, under this action, are carved into fantastic forms. In still other places, the
strong winds carry soil over long distances to be mixed with other soils. Finally, on the seashore
the great waves dashing against the rocks of the coast line, and rolling the mass of pebbles
back and forth, break and pulverize the rock until soil is formed. Glaciers, winds, and waves
are also, therefore, physical agencies of soil formation.

It may be noted that the result of the action of all these agencies is to form a rock powder,
each particle of which preserves the composition that it had while it was a constituent part
of the rock. It may further be noted that the chief of these soil-forming agencies act more
vigorously in arid than in humid sections. Under the cloudless sky and dry atmosphere of regions
of limited rainfall, the daily and seasonal temperature changes are much greater than in sections
of greater rainfall. Consequently the pulverization of rocks goes on most rapidly in dry-farm
districts. Constant heavy winds, which as soil formers are second only to temperature changes
and freezing water, are also usually more common in arid than in humid countries. This is strikingly
shown, for instance, on the Colorado desert and the Great Plains.

The rock powder formed by the processes above described is continually being acted upon by
agencies, the effect of which is to change its chemical composition. Chief of these agencies
is water, which exerts a solvent action on all known substances. Pure water exerts a strong
solvent action, but when it has been rendered impure by a variety of substances, naturally
occurring, its solvent action is greatly increased.

The most effective water impurity, considering soil formation, is the gas, carbon dioxid. This
gas is formed whenever plant or animal substances decay, and is therefore found, normally,
in the atmosphere and in soils. Rains or flowing water gather the carbon dioxid from the atmosphere
and the soil; few natural waters are free from it. The hardest rock particles are disintegrated
by carbonated water, while limestones, or rocks containing lime, are readily dissolved.

The result of the action of carbonated water upon soil particles is to render soluble, and
therefore more available to plants, many of the important plant-foods. In this way the action
of water, holding in solution carbon dioxid and other substances, tends to make the soil more
fertile.

The second great chemical agency of soil formation is the oxygen of the air. Oxidation is a
process of more or less rapid burning, which tends to accelerate the disintegration of rocks.

