At last they all sat down in a sort of clearing under a clump of oaks, whose shadows were lengthening
in the setting sun. The men, lighting matches on the seats of their trousers, began to smoke.
The women chattered and laughed and threw themselves backward in paroxysms of inane hilarity
and noisy outbursts of delight. Germinie alone did not speak or laugh. She did not listen or
look. Her eyes, beneath their lowered lids, were fixed upon the toes of her boots. So engrossed
in thought was she that you would have said she was totally oblivious to time and place. Lying
at full length on the grass, her head slightly raised by a hammock, she made no other movement
than to lay her hands, palm downwards, on the grass beside her; in a short time she would turn
them on their backs and let them lie in that position, seeking the coolness of the earth to
allay the fever of her flesh.

"There's a lazybones! going to sleep?" said Adèle.

Germinie opened wide her blazing eyes, without answering, and until dinner maintained the same
position, the same silence, the same air of torpor, feeling about her for places where her
burning hands had not rested.

"Come, old girl!" said a woman's voice, "sing us something."

"Oh! no," Adèle replied, "I haven't got wind enough before eating."

Suddenly a great stone came hurtling through the air and struck the ground near Germinie's
head; at the same moment she heard the painter's voice shouting: "Don't be afraid! that's your
chair."

One and all laid their handkerchiefs on the ground by way of tablecloth. Eatables were produced
from greasy papers. Bottles were uncorked and the wine went round; the glasses were rested
against tufts of grass, and they fell to upon bits of pork and sausages, with slices of bread
for plates. The painter cut boats out of paper to hold the salt, and imitated the orders shouted
out by waiters in a café. "Boum! Pavillon! Servez!" he cried. The company gradually became
animated. The open air, the patches of blue sky, the food and drink started the gayety of the
table in full blast. Hands approached one another, mouths met, coarse remarks were whispered
from one to another, shirt sleeves crept around waists, and now and then energetic embraces
were attended by greedy, resounding kisses.

Germinie drank, and said nothing. The painter, who had taken his place by her side, felt decidedly
chilly and embarrassed beside his extraordinary neighbor, who amused herself "so entirely inside."
Suddenly he began to beat a tattoo with his knife against his glass, drowning the uproar of
the party, and rose to his knees.

"Mesdames!" said he, with the voice of a paroquet that has sung too much, "here's the health
of a man in hard luck: myself! Perhaps it will bring me good luck! Deserted, yes, mesdames;
yes, I've been deserted! I'm a widower! you know the kind of widower, razibus! I was struck
all of a heap. Not that I cared much for her, but habit, that old villain, habit! The fact
is I'm as bored as a bed-bug in a watch spring. For two weeks my life has been like a restaurant
without a pousse-café! And when I love love as if it had made me! No wife! That's what I call
weaning a grown man! that is to say, since I've known what it is, I take off my hat to the
curés: I feel very sorry for them, 'pon my word! No wife! and there are so many of 'em! But
I can't walk about with a sign: Vacant man to let. Inquire within. In the first place it would
have to be stamped by M'sieu le Préfet, and then, people are such fools, it would draw a crowd!
All of which, mesdames, is intended to inform you, that if, among the people you have the honor
of knowing, there should happen to be one who'd like to make an acquaintance--virtuous acquaintance--a
pretty little left-handed marriage--why she needn't look any farther! I'm her man--Victor-Médéric
Gautruche! a home body, a genuine house-ivy for sentiment! She has only to apply at my former
hotel, La Clef de Sûreté. And gay as a hunchback who's just drowned his wife! Gautruche, called
Gogo-la-Gaiété, egad! A pretty fellow who knows what's what, who doesn't beat about the bush,
a good old body who takes things easy and who won't give himself the colic with that fishes'
grog!" With that he took a bottle of water that stood beside him and hurled it twenty yards
away. "Long live the walls! They're the same to papa that the sky is to the good God! Gogo-la-Gaiété
paints them through the week and beats them on Monday![2] And with all that not jealous, not
ugly, not a wife-beater, but a real love of a man, who never harmed one of the fair sex in
his life! If you want physique, parbleu! I'm your man!"

He rose to his feet and, drawing up his wavering body, clad in an old blue coat with gilt buttons,
to its full height, removing his gray hat so as to show his perspiring, polished, bald skull,
and tossing his old plucked gamin's head, he continued: "You see what it is! It isn't a very
attractive piece of property; it doesn't help it to exhibit it. But it yields well, it's a
little dilapidated, but well put together. Dame! Here I am with my little forty nine-years--no
more hair than a billiard ball, a witchgrass beard that would make good herb-tea, foundations
not too solid, feet as long as La Villette--and with all the rest thin enough to take a bath
in a musket-barrel. There's the bill of lading! Pass the prospectus along! If any woman wants
all that in a lump--any respectable person--not too young--who won't amuse herself by painting
me too yellow--you understand, I don't ask for a Princess of Batignolles--why, sure as you're
born, I'm her man!"

Germinie seized Gautruche's glass, half emptied it at a draught and held out the side from
which she had drunk to him.

                *       *       *       *       *

At nightfall the party returned on foot. When they reached the fortifications, Gautruche drew
a large heart with the point of his knife on the stone, and all the names with the date were
carved inside.

In the evening Gautruche and Germinie were upon the outer boulevards, near Barrière Rochechouart.
Beside a low house with these words, in a plaster panel: Madame Merlin. Dresses cut and tried
on, two francs, they stopped at a stone staircase of three steps leading into a dark passage,
at the end of which shone the red light of an Argand lamp. At the entrance to the passage,
these words were printed in black on a wooden sign:

                Hotel of the Little Blue Hand.

XLIX

Médérie Gautruche was one of the wenching, idling, vagabond workmen who make their whole life
a Monday. Filled with the love of wine, his lips forever wet with the last drop, his insides
as thoroughly lined with tartar as an old wine cask, he was one of those whom the Burgundians
graphically call boyaux rouges.[3] Always a little tipsy, tipsy from yesterday when he had
drunk nothing to-day, he looked at life through the sunbeam in his head. He smiled at his fate,
he yielded to it with the easy indifference of the drunkard, smiling vaguely from the steps
of the wineshop at things in general, at life and the road that stretched away into the darkness.
Ennui, care, want, had gained no hold upon him; and if by chance a grave or gloomy thought
did come into his mind, he turned his head away, uttered an exclamation that sounded like psitt!
which was his way of saying pshaw! and, raising his right arm, caricaturing the gesture of
a Spanish dancer, he would toss his melancholy over his shoulder to the devil. He had the superb
after-drinking philosophy, the jovial serenity, of the bottle. He knew neither envy nor longing.
His dreams served him as a cashbox. For three sous he was sure of a small glass of happiness;
for twelve, of a bottle of ideal bliss. Being content with everything, he liked everything,
and found food for laughter and entertainment in everything. Nothing in the world seemed sad
to him--except a glass of water.

With this drunkard's expansiveness, with the gayety of his excellent health and his temperament,
Gautruche combined the characteristic gayety of his profession, the good humor and the warm-heartedness
of that free, unfatiguing life, in the open air, between heaven and earth, which seeks distraction
in singing, and flings the workmen's blague at passers-by, from its lofty perch upon a ladder.
He was a house-painter and did lettering. He was the one man in Paris who would attack a sign
without a measure, with no other guide than a cord, without outlining the letters in white;
he was the only one who could place each of the letters in position inside of the frame of
a placard, and, without losing an instant in aligning them, dash off capitals off-hand. He
was also renowned for fantastic letters, capricious letters, letters shaded in bronze or gold
to imitate those cut in stone. Thus he made fifteen to twenty francs on some days. But as he
drank it all up, he was not wealthy, and he always had unpaid scores on the slate at the wine-shops.

He was a man brought up in the street. The street had been his mother, his nurse and his school.
The street had given him his self-assurance, his ready tongue and his wit. All that the keen
mind of a man of the people can pick up upon the pavements of Paris he had picked up. All that
falls from the upper to the lower strata of a great city, the strainings and drippings, the
crumbs of ideas and information, the things that float in the sensitive atmosphere and the
brimming gutters, the contact with the covers of books, bits of feuilletons swallowed between
two glasses, odds and ends of plays heard on the boulevard, had endowed him with that accidental
intelligence which, though without education, learns everything. He possessed an inexhaustible,
imperturbable store of talk. His words gushed forth abundantly in original remarks, laughable
images, the metaphors that flow from the comic genius of crowds. He had the natural picturesqueness
of the unadulterated farce. He was brimming over with amusing stories and buffoonery, rich
in the possession of the richest of all repertories of house-painter's nonsense. Being a member
of divers of the low haunts called lists, he knew all the new tunes and ballads, and he was
never tired of singing. He was amusing, in short, from head to foot. And if you merely looked
at him you laughed at him, as at a comic actor.

A man of his cheerful, hearty temperament suited Germinie.

