THE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. DAY, 1995, MEMORIAL ISSUE.

By Various

Edited and Assembled by Judith Boss and  John Hamm

Table of Contents -----------------

     Sojourner Truth, the Libyan Sibyl.............Harriet Beecher Stowe
     Reconstruction................................Frederick Douglass
     An Appeal to Congress for Impartial Suffrage..Frederick Douglas
     The Negro Exodus..............................James B. Runnion
     My Escape from Slavery........................Frederick Douglass
     The Goophered Grapevine.......................Charles W. Chesnutt
     Po' Sandy.....................................Charles W. Chesnutt
     Dave's Neckliss...............................Charles W. Chesnutt
     The Awakening of the Negro....................Booker T. Washington
     The Story of Uncle Tom's Cabin................Charles Dudley Warner
     Strivings of the Negro People.................W. E. Burghardt Du Bois
     The Wife of his Youth.........................Charles W. Chesnutt
     The Bouquet...................................Charles W. Chesnutt
     The Case of the Negro.........................Booker T. Washington
     Hot-Foot Hannibal.............................Charles W. Chesnutt
     A Negro Schoolmaster in the New South.........W. E. Burghardt Du Bois
     The Capture of a Slaver.......................J. Taylor Wood
     Mr. Charles W. Chesnutt's Stories.............W. D. Howells
     Paths of Hope for the Negro
     Practical Suggestions of a Southerner.........Jerome Dowd
     Signs of Progress Among the Negroes...........Booker T. Washington
     The March of Progress.........................Charles W. Chesnutt
     The Freedmen's Bureau.........................W. E. Burghardt Du Bois
     Of the Training of Black Men..................W. E. Burghardt Du Bois
     The Fruits of Industrial Training.............Booker T. Washington
     The Negro in the Regular Army.................Oswald Garrison Villard
     Baxter's Procrustes...........................Charles W. Chesnutt
     The Heart of the Race Problem.................Quincy Ewing
     Negro Suffrage in a Democracy.................Ray Stannard Baker

     Bibliography of Sources

SOJOURNER TRUTH, THE LIBYAN SIBYL by Harriet Beecher Stowe

Many years ago, the few readers of radical Abolitionist papers must often have seen the singular
name of Sojourner Truth, announced as a frequent speaker at Anti-Slavery meetings, and as travelling
on a sort of self-appointed agency through the country. I had myself often remarked the name,
but never met the individual. On one occasion, when our house was filled with company, several
eminent clergymen being our guests, notice was brought up to me that Sojourner Truth was below,
and requested an interview. Knowing nothing of her but her singular name, I went down, prepared
to make the interview short, as the pressure of many other engagements demanded.

When I went into the room, a tall, spare form arose to meet me. She was evidently a full-blooded
African, and though now aged and worn with many hardships, still gave the impression of a physical
development which in early youth must have been as fine a specimen of the torrid zone as Cumberworth's
celebrated statuette of the Negro Woman at the Fountain. Indeed, she so strongly reminded me
of that figure, that, when I recall the events of her life, as she narrated them to me, I imagine
her as a living, breathing impersonation of that work of art. Her tall form, as she rose up
before me, is still vivid to my mind. She was dressed in some stout, grayish stuff, neat and
clean, though dusty from travel. On her head, she wore a bright Madras handkerchief, arranged
as a turban, after the manner of her race. She seemed perfectly self-possessed and at her ease,--in
fact, there was almost an unconscious superiority, not unmixed with a solemn twinkle of humor,
in the odd, composed manner in which she looked down on me. Her whole air had at times a gloomy
sort of drollery which impressed one strangely.

"So this is YOU," she said.

"Yes," I answered.

"Well, honey, de Lord bless ye! I jes' thought I'd like to come an' have a look at ye. You's
heerd o' me, I reckon?" she added.

"Yes, I think I have. You go about lecturing, do you not?"

"Yes, honey, that's what I do. The Lord has made me a sign unto this nation, an' I go round
a'testifyin', an' showin' on 'em their sins agin my people."

So saying, she took a seat, and, stooping over and crossing her arms on her knees, she looked
down on the floor, and appeared to fall into a sort of reverie. Her great gloomy eyes and her
dark face seemed to work with some undercurrent of feeling; she sighed deeply, and occasionally
broke out,--

"O Lord! O Lord! Oh, the tears, an' the groans, an' the moans! O Lord!"

I should have said that she was accompanied by a little grandson of ten years,--the fattest,
jolliest woolly-headed little specimen of Africa that one can imagine. He was grinning and
showing his glistening white teeth in a state of perpetual merriment, and at this moment broke
out into an audible giggle, which disturbed the reverie into which his relative was falling.

She looked at him with an indulgent sadness, and then at me.

"Laws, Ma'am, HE don't know nothin' about it--HE don't. Why, I've seen them poor critters,
beat an' 'bused an' hunted, brought in all torn,--ears hangin' all in rags, where the dogs
been a'bitin' of 'em!"

This set off our little African Puck into another giggle, in which he seemed perfectly convulsed.

She surveyed him soberly, without the slightest irritation.

"Well, you may bless the Lord you CAN laugh; but I tell you, 't wa'n't no laughin' matter."

By this time I thought her manner so original that it might be worth while to call down my
friends; and she seemed perfectly well pleased with the idea. An audience was what she wanted,--it
mattered not whether high or low, learned or ignorant. She had things to say, and was ready
to say them at all times, and to any one.

I called down Dr. Beecher, Professor Allen, and two or three other clergymen, who, together
with my husband and family, made a roomful. No princess could have received a drawing-room
with more composed dignity than Sojourner her audience. She stood among them, calm and erect,
as one of her own native palm-trees waving alone in the desert. I presented one after another
to her, and at last said,--

"Sojourner, this is Dr. Beecher. He is a very celebrated preacher."

"IS he?" she said, offering her hand in a condescending manner, and looking down on his white
head. "Ye dear lamb, I'm glad to see ye! De Lord bless ye! I loves preachers. I'm a kind o'
preacher myself."

"You are?" said Dr. Beecher. "Do you preach from the Bible?"

"No, honey, can't preach from de Bible,--can't read a letter."

"Why, Sojourner, what do you preach from, then?"

Her answer was given with a solemn power of voice, peculiar to herself, that hushed every one
in the room.

"When I preaches, I has jest one text to preach from, an' I always preaches from this one.
MY text is, 'WHEN I FOUND JESUS.'"

"Well, you couldn't have a better one," said one of the ministers.

She paid no attention to him, but stood and seemed swelling with her own thoughts, and then
began this narration:--

"Well, now, I'll jest have to go back, an' tell ye all about it. Ye see, we was all brought
over from Africa, father an' mother an' I, an' a lot more of us; an' we was sold up an' down,
an' hither an' yon; an' I can 'member, when I was a little thing, not bigger than this 'ere,"
pointing to her grandson, "how my ole mammy would sit out o' doors in the evenin', an' look
up at the stars an' groan. She'd groan an' groan, an' says I to her,--

"'Mammy, what makes you groan so?'

"an' she'd say,--

"'Matter enough, chile! I'm groanin' to think o' my poor children: they don't know where I
be, an' I don't know where they be; they looks up at the stars, an' I looks up at the stars,
but I can't tell where they be.

"'Now,' she said, 'chile, when you're grown up, you may be sold away from your mother an' all
your ole friends, an' have great troubles come on ye; an' when you has these troubles come
on ye, ye jes' go to God, an' He'll help ye.'

"An' says I to her,--

"'Who is God, anyhow, mammy?'

"An' says she,--

"'Why, chile, you jes' look up DAR! It's Him that made all DEM!"

"Well, I didn't mind much 'bout God in them days. I grew up pretty lively an' strong, an' could
row a boat, or ride a horse, or work round, an' do 'most anything.

"At last I got sold away to a real hard massa an' missis. Oh, I tell you, they WAS hard! 'Peared
like I couldn't please 'em, nohow. An' then I thought o' what my old mammy told me about God;
an' I thought I'd got into trouble, sure enough, an' I wanted to find God, an' I heerd some
one tell a story about a man that met God on a threshin'-floor, an' I thought, 'Well an' good,
I'll have a threshin'-floor, too.' So I went down in the lot, an' I threshed down a place real
hard, an' I used to go down there every day, an' pray an' cry with all my might, a-prayin'
to the Lord to make my massa an' missis better, but it didn't seem to do no good; an' so says
I, one day,--

"'O God, I been a-askin' ye, an' askin' ye, an' askin' ye, for all this long time, to make
my massa an' missis better, an' you don't do it, an' what CAN be the reason? Why, maybe you
CAN'T. Well, I shouldn't wonder ef you couldn't. Well, now, I tell you, I'll make a bargain
with you. Ef you'll help me to git away from my massa an' missis, I'll agree to be good; but
ef you don't help me, I really don't think I can be. Now,' says I, 'I want to git away; but
the trouble's jest here: ef I try to git away in the night, I can't see; an' ef I try to git
away in the daytime, they'll see me, an' be after me.'

"Then the Lord said to me, 'Git up two or three hours afore daylight, an' start off.'

"An' says I, 'Thank 'ee, Lord! that's a good thought.'

"So up I got, about three o'clock in the mornin', an' I started an' travelled pretty fast,
till, when the sun rose, I was clear away from our place an' our folks, an' out o' sight. An'
then I begun to think I didn't know nothin' where to go. So I kneeled down, and says I,--

"'Well, Lord, you've started me out, an' now please to show me where to go.'

"Then the Lord made a house appear to me, an' He said to me that I was to walk on till I saw
that house, an' then go in an' ask the people to take me. An' I travelled all day, an' didn't
come to the house till late at night; but when I saw it, sure enough, I went in, an' I told
the folks that the Lord sent me; an' they was Quakers, an' real kind they was to me. They jes'
took me in, an' did for me as kind as ef I'd been one of 'em; an' after they'd giv me supper,
they took me into a room where there was a great, tall, white bed; an' they told me to sleep
there. Well, honey, I was kind o' skeered when they left me alone with that great white bed;
'cause I never had been in a bed in my life. It never came into my mind they could mean me
to sleep in it. An' so I jes' camped down under it, on the floor, an' then I slep' pretty well.
In the mornin', when they came in, they asked me ef I hadn't been asleep; an' I said, 'Yes,
I never slep' better.' An' they said, 'Why, you haven't been in the bed!' An' says I, 'Laws,
you didn't think o' such a thing as my sleepin' in dat 'ar' BED, did you? I never heerd o'
such a thing in my life.'

"Well, ye see, honey, I stayed an' lived with 'em. An' now jes' look here: instead o' keepin'
my promise an' bein' good, as I told the Lord I would, jest as soon as everything got a'goin'
easy, I FORGOT ALL ABOUT GOD.

"Pretty well don't need no help; an' I gin up prayin.' I lived there two or three years, an'
then the slaves in New York were all set free, an' ole massa came to our home to make a visit,
an' he asked me ef I didn't want to go back an' see the folks on the ole place. An' I told
him I did. So he said, ef I'd jes' git into the wagon with him, he'd carry me over. Well, jest
as I was goin' out to git into the wagon, I MET GOD! an' says I, 'O God, I didn't know as you
was so great!' An' I turned right round an' come into the house, an' set down in my room; for
't was God all around me. I could feel it burnin', burnin', burnin' all around me, an' goin'
through me; an' I saw I was so wicked, it seemed as ef it would burn me up. An' I said, 'O
somebody, somebody, stand between God an' me! for it burns me!' Then, honey, when I said so,
I felt as it were somethin' like an amberill [umbrella] that came between me an' the light,
an' I felt it was SOMEBODY,--somebody that stood between me an' God; an' it felt cool, like
a shade; an' says I, 'Who's this that stands between me an' God? Is it old Cato?' He was a
pious old preacher; but then I seemed to see Cato in the light, an' he was all polluted an'
vile, like me; an' I said, 'Is it old Sally?' an' then I saw her, an' she seemed jes' so. An'
then says I, 'WHO is this?' An' then, honey, for a while it was like the sun shinin' in a pail
o' water, when it moves up an' down; for I begun to feel 't was somebody that loved me; an'
I tried to know him. An' I said, 'I know you! I know you! I know you!'--an' then I said, 'I
don't know you! I don't know you! I don't know you!' An' when I said, 'I know you, I know you,'
the light came; an' when I said, 'I don't know you, I don't know you,' it went, jes' like the
sun in a pail o' water. An' finally somethin' spoke out in me an' said, 'THIS IS JESUS!' An'
I spoke out with all my might, an' says I, 'THIS IS JESUS! Glory be to God!' An' then the whole
world grew bright, an' the trees they waved an' waved in glory, an' every little bit o' stone
on the ground shone like glass; an' I shouted an' said, 'Praise, praise, praise to the Lord!'
An' I begun to feel such a love in my soul as I never felt before,--love to all creatures.
An' then, all of a sudden, it stopped, an' I said, 'Dar's de white folks, that have abused
you an' beat you an' abused your people,--think o' them!' But then there came another rush
of love through my soul, an' I cried out loud,--'Lord, Lord, I can love EVEN DE WHITE FOLKS!'

"Honey, I jes' walked round an' round in a dream. Jesus loved me! I knowed it,--I felt it.
Jesus was my Jesus. Jesus would love me always. I didn't dare tell nobody; 't was a great secret.
Everything had been got away from me that I ever had; an' I thought that ef I let white folks
know about this, maybe they'd get HIM away,--so I said, 'I'll keep this close. I won't let
any one know.'"

"But, Sojourner, had you never been told about Jesus Christ?"

"No, honey. I hadn't heerd no preachin',--been to no meetin'. Nobody hadn't told me. I'd kind
o' heerd of Jesus, but thought he was like Gineral Lafayette, or some o' them. But one night
there was a Methodist meetin' somewhere in our parts, an' I went; an' they got up an' begun
for to tell der 'speriences; an' de fust one begun to speak. I started, 'cause he told about
Jesus. 'Why,' says I to myself, 'dat man's found him, too!' An' another got up an' spoke, an
I said, 'He's found him, too!' An' finally I said, 'Why, they all know him!' I was so happy!
An' then they sung this hymn": (Here Sojourner sang, in a strange, cracked voice, but evidently
with all her soul and might, mispronouncing the English, but seeming to derive as much elevation
and comfort from bad English as from good):--

     'There is a holy city,
       A world of light above,
      Above the stairs and regions,*
       Built by the God of Love.

     "An Everlasting temple,
       And saints arrayed in white
      There serve their great Redeemer
       And dwell with him in light.

     "The meanest child of glory
       Outshines the radiant sun;
      But who can speak the splendor
       Of Jesus on his throne?

     "Is this the man of sorrows
       Who stood at Pilate's bar,
      Condemned by haughty Herod
       And by his men of war?

     "He seems a mighty conqueror,
       Who spoiled the powers below,
      And ransomed many captives
       From everlasting woe.

     "The hosts of saints around him
       Proclaim his work of grace,
      The patriarchs and prophets,
       And all the godly race,

     "Who speak of fiery trials
       And tortures on their way;
      They came from tribulation
       To everlasting day.

     "And what shall be my journey,
       How long I'll stay below,
      Or what shall be my trials,
       Are not for me to know.

     "In every day of trouble
       I'll raise my thoughts on high,
      I'll think of that bright temple
       And crowns above the sky."

   * Starry regions.

I put in this whole hymn, because Sojourner, carried away with her own feeling, sang it from
beginning to end with a triumphant energy that held the whole circle around her intently listening.
She sang with the strong barbaric accent of the native African, and with those indescribable
upward turns and those deep gutturals which give such a wild, peculiar power to the negro singing,--but
above all, with such an overwhelming energy of personal appropriation that the hymn seemed
to be fused in the furnace of her feelings and come out recrystallized as a production of her own.

It is said that Rachel was wont to chant the "Marseillaise" in a manner that made her seem,
for the time, the very spirit and impersonation of the gaunt, wild, hungry, avenging mob which
rose against aristocratic oppression; and in like manner, Sojourner, singing this hymn, seemed
to impersonate the fervor of Ethiopia, wild, savage, hunted of all nations, but burning after
God in her tropic heart, and stretching her scarred hands towards the glory to be revealed.

"Well, den ye see, after a while, I thought I'd go back an' see de folks on de ole place. Well,
you know, de law had passed dat de culled folks was all free; an' my old missis, she had a
daughter married about dis time who went to live in Alabama,--an' what did she do but give
her my son, a boy about de age of dis yer, for her to take down to Alabama? When I got back
to de ole place, they told me about it, an' I went right up to see ole missis, an' says I,--

"'Missis, have you been an' sent my son away down to Alabama?'

"'Yes, I have,' says she; 'he's gone to live with your young missis.'

"'Oh, Missis,' says I, 'how could you do it?'

"'Poh!' says she, 'what a fuss you make about a little nigger! Got more of 'em now than you
know what to do with.'

"I tell you, I stretched up. I felt as tall as the world!

"'Missis,' says I, 'I'LL HAVE MY SON BACK AGIN!'

"She laughed.

"'YOU will, you nigger? How you goin' to do it? You ha'n't got no money."

"'No, Missis,--but GOD has,--an' you'll see He'll help me!'--an' I turned round an' went out.

"Oh, but I WAS angry to have her speak to me so haughty an' so scornful, as ef my chile wasn't
worth anything. I said to God, 'O Lord, render unto her double!' It was a dreadful prayer,
an' I didn't know how true it would come.

"Well, I didn't rightly know which way to turn; but I went to the Lord, an' I said to Him,
'O Lord, ef I was as rich as you be, an' you was as poor as I be, I'd help you,--you KNOW I
would; and, oh, do help me!' An' I felt sure then that He would.

"Well, I talked with people, an' they said I must git the case before a grand jury. So I went
into the town when they was holdin' a court, to see ef I could find any grand jury. An' I stood
round the court-house, an' when they was a-comin' out, I walked right up to the grandest-lookin'
one I could see, an' says I to him,--

"'Sir, be you a grand jury?'

"An' then he wanted to know why I asked, an' I told him all about it; an' he asked me all sorts
of questions, an' finally he says to me,--

"'I think, ef you pay me ten dollars, that I'd agree to git your son for you.' An' says he,
pointin' to a house over the way, 'You go 'long an' tell your story to the folks in that house,
an' I guess they'll give you the money.'

"Well, I went, an' I told them, an' they gave me twenty dollars; an' then I thought to myself,
'Ef ten dollars will git him, twenty dollars will git him SARTIN.' So I carried it to the man
all out, an' said,--

"'Take it all,--only be sure an' git him.'

"Well, finally they got the boy brought back; an' then they tried to frighten him, an' to make
him say that I wasn't his mammy, an' that he didn't know me; but they couldn't make it out.
They gave him to me, an' I took him an' carried him home; an' when I came to take off his clothes,
there was his poor little back all covered with scars an' hard lumps, where they'd flogged him.

"Well, you see, honey, I told you how I prayed the Lord to render unto her double. Well, it
came true; for I was up at ole missis' house not long after, an' I heerd 'em readin' a letter
to her how her daughter's husband had murdered her,--how he'd thrown her down an' stamped the
life out of her, when he was in liquor; an' my ole missis, she giv a screech, an' fell flat
on the floor. Then says I, 'O Lord, I didn't mean all that! You took me up too quick.'

"Well, I went in an' tended that poor critter all night. She was out of her mind,--a-cryin',
an' callin' for her daughter; an' I held her poor ole head on my arm, an' watched for her as
ef she'd been my babby. An' I watched by her, an' took care on her all through her sickness
after that, an' she died in my arms, poor thing!"

"Well, Sojourner, did you always go by this name?"

"No, 'deed! My name was Isabella; but when I left the house of bondage, I left everything behind.
I wa'n't goin' to keep nothin' of Egypt on me, an' so I went to the Lord an' asked Him to give
me a new name.

"Ye see some ladies have given me a white satin banner," she said, pulling out of her pocket
and unfolding a white banner, printed with many texts, such as, "Proclaim liberty throughout
all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof," and others of like nature. "Well," she said,
"I journeys round to camp-meetins, an' wherever folks is, an' I sets up my banner, an' then
I sings, an' then folks always comes up round me, an' then I preaches to 'em. I tells 'em about
Jesus, an' I tells 'em about the sins of this people. A great many always comes to hear me;
an' they're right good to me, too, an' say they want to hear me agin."

We all thought it likely; and as the company left her, they shook hands with her, and thanked
her for her very original sermon; and one of the ministers was overheard to say to another,
"There's more of the gospel in that story than in most sermons."

Sojourner stayed several days with us, a welcome guest. Her conversation was so strong, simple,
shrewd, and with such a droll flavoring of humor, that the Professor was wont to say of an
evening, "Come, I am dull, can't you get Sojourner up here to talk a little?" She would come
up into the parlor, and sit among pictures and ornaments, in her simple stuff gown, with her
heavy travelling-shoes, the central object of attention both to parents and children, always
ready to talk or to sing, and putting into the common flow of conversation the keen edge of
some shrewd remark.

"Sojourner, what do you think of Women's Rights?"

"Well, honey, I's ben to der meetins, an' harked a good deal. Dey wanted me for to speak. So
I got up. Says I,--'Sisters, I a'n't clear what you'd be after. Ef women want any rights more
'n dey's got, why don't dey jes' TAKE 'EM, an' not be talkin' about it?' Some on 'em came round
me, an' asked why I didn't wear Bloomers. An' I told 'em I had Bloomers enough when I was in
bondage. You see," she said, "dey used to weave what dey called nigger-cloth, an' each one
of us got jes' sech a strip, an' had to wear it width-wise. Them that was short got along pretty
well, but as for me"--She gave an indescribably droll glance at her long limbs and then at
us, and added,--"Tell YOU, I had enough of Bloomers in them days."

Sojourner then proceeded to give her views of the relative capacity of the sexes, in her own way.

"S'pose a man's mind holds a quart, an' a woman's don't hold but a pint;
ef her pint is FULL, it's as good as his quart."
    O righteous Father,
     Do look down on me,
    And help me on to Canada,
     Where colored folks are free!"

The lyric ran on to state, that, when the fugitive crosses the Canada line,

   "The Queen comes down unto the shore,
     With arms extended wide,
    To welcome the poor fugitive
     Safe onto Freedom's side."

In the truth thus set forth she seemed to have the most simple faith.

But her chief delight was to talk of "glory," and to sing hymns whose burden was,--

   "O glory, glory, glory,
     Won't you come along with me?"

and when left to herself, she would often hum these with great delight, nodding her head.

On one occasion, I remember her sitting at a window singing and fervently keeping time with
her head, the little black Puck of a grandson meanwhile amusing himself with ornamenting her
red-and-yellow turban with green dandelion-curls, which shook and trembled with her emotions,
causing him perfect convulsions of delight.

"Sojourner," said the Professor to her, one day, when he heard her singing, "you seem to be
very sure about heaven."

"Well, I be," she answered, triumphantly.

"What makes you so sure there is any heaven?"

"Well, 'cause I got such a hankerin' arter it in here," she said,--giving a thump on her breast
with her usual energy.

There was at the time an invalid in the house, and Sojourner, on learning it, felt a mission
to go and comfort her. It was curious to see the tall, gaunt, dusky figure stalk up to the
bed with such an air of conscious authority, and take on herself the office of consoler with
such a mixture of authority and tenderness. She talked as from above,--and at the same time,
if a pillow needed changing or any office to be rendered, she did it with a strength and handiness
that inspired trust. One felt as if the dark, strange woman were quite able to take up the
invalid in her bosom, and bear her as a lamb, both physically and spiritually. There was both
power and sweetness in that great warm soul and that vigorous frame.

At length, Sojourner, true to her name, departed. She had her mission elsewhere. Where now
she is I know not; but she left deep memories behind her.

To these recollections of my own I will add one more anecdote, related by Wendell Phillips.

Speaking of the power of Rachel to move and bear down a whole audience by a few simple words,
he said he never knew but one other human being that had that power, and that other was Sojourner
Truth. He related a scene of which he was witness. It was at a crowded public meeting in Faneuil
Hall, where Frederick Douglas was one of the chief speakers.

The effect was perfectly electrical, and thrilled through the whole house, changing as by a
flash the whole feeling of the audience. Not another word she said or needed to say; it was enough.

It is with a sad feeling that one contemplates noble minds and bodies, nobly and grandly formed
human beings, that have come to us cramped, scarred, maimed, out of the prison-house of bondage.
One longs to know what such beings might have become, if suffered to unfold and expand under
the kindly developing influences of education.

It is the theory of some writers, that to the African is reserved, in the later and palmier
days of the earth, the full and harmonious development of the religious element in man. The
African seems to seize on the tropical fervor and luxuriance of Scripture imagery as something
native; he appears to feel himself to be of the same blood with those old burning, simple souls,
the patriarchs, prophets, and seers, whose impassioned words seem only grafted as foreign plants
on the cooler stock of the Occidental mind.

I cannot but think that Sojourner with the same culture might have spoken words as eloquent
and undying as those of the African Saint Augustine or Tertullian. How grand and queenly a
woman she might have been, with her wonderful physical vigor, her great heaving sea of emotion,
her power of spiritual conception, her quick penetration, and her boundless energy!

But though Sojourner Truth has passed away from among us as a wave of the sea, her memory still
lives in one of the loftiest and most original works of modern art, the Libyan Sibyl, by Mr.
Story, which attracted so much attention in the late World's Exhibition. Some years ago, when
visiting Rome, I related Sojourner's history to Mr. Story at a breakfast at his house. Already
had his mind begun to turn to Egypt in search of a type of art which should represent a larger
and more vigorous development of nature than the cold elegance of Greek lines. His glorious
Cleopatra was then in process of evolution, and his mind was working out the problem of her
broadly developed nature, of all that slumbering weight and fulness of passion with which this
statue seems charged, as a heavy thunder-cloud is charged with electricity.

The history of Sojourner Truth worked in his mind and led him into the deeper recesses of the
African nature,--those unexplored depths of being and feeling, mighty and dark as the gigantic
depths of tropical forests, mysterious as the hidden rivers and mines of that burning continent
whose life-history is yet to be. A few days after, he told me that he had conceived the idea
of a statue which he should call the Libyan Sibyl. Two years subsequently, I revisited Rome,
and found the gorgeous Cleopatra finished, a thing to marvel at, as the creation of a new style
of beauty, a new manner of art. Mr. Story requested me to come and repeat to him the history
of Sojourner Truth, saying that the conception had never left him. I did so; and a day or two
after, he showed me the clay model of the Libyan Sibyl. I have never seen the marble statue;
but am told by those who have, that it was by far the most impressive work of art at the Exhibition.

A notice of the two statues from the London "Athenaeum" must supply a description which I cannot
give.

"The Cleopatra and the Sibyl are seated, partly draped, with the characteristic Egyptian gown,
that gathers about the torso and falls freely around the limbs; the first is covered to the
bosom, the second bare to the hips. Queenly Cleopatra rests back against her chair in meditative
ease, leaning her cheek against one hand, whose elbow the rail of the seat sustains; the other
is outstretched upon her knee, nipping its forefinger upon the thumb thoughtfully, as though
some firm, wilful purpose filled her brain, as it seems to set those luxurious features to
a smile as if the whole woman 'would.' Upon her head is the coif, bearing in front the mystic
uraeus, or twining basilisk of sovereignty, while from its sides depend the wide Egyptian lappels,
or wings, that fall upon her shoulders. The Sibilla Libica has crossed her knees,--an action
universally held amongst the ancients as indicative of reticence or secrecy, and of power to
bind. A secret-keeping looking dame she is, in the full-bloom proportions of ripe womanhood,
wherein choosing to place his figure the sculptor has deftly gone between the disputed point
whether these women were blooming and wise in youth, or deeply furrowed with age and burdened
with the knowledge of centuries, as Virgil, Livy, and Gellius say. Good artistic example might
be quoted on both sides. Her forward elbow is propped upon one knee; and to keep her secrets
close, for this Libyan woman is the closest of all the Sibyls, she rests her shut mouth upon
one closed palm, as if holding the African mystery deep in the brooding brain that looks out
through mournful, warning eyes, seen under the wide shade of the strange horned (ammonite)
crest, that bears the mystery of the Tetragrammaton upon its upturned front. Over her full
bosom, mother of myriads as she was, hangs the same symbol. Her face has a Nubian cast, her
hair wavy and plaited, as is meet."

We hope to see the day when copies both of the Cleopatra and the Libyan Sibyl shall adorn the
Capitol at Washington.

AN APPEAL TO CONGRESS FOR IMPARTIAL SUFFRAGE by Frederick Douglas

A very limited statement of the argument for impartial suffrage, and for including the negro
in the body politic, would require more space than can be reasonably asked here. It is supported
by reasons as broad as the nature of man, and as numerous as the wants of society. Man is the
only government-making animal in the world. His right to a participation in the production
and operation of government is an inference from his nature, as direct and self-evident as
is his right to acquire property or education. It is no less a crime against the manhood of
a man, to declare that he shall not share in the making and directing of the government under
which he lives, than to say that he shall not acquire property and education. The fundamental
and unanswerable argument in favor of the enfranchisement of the negro is found in the undisputed
fact of his manhood. He is a man, and by every fact and argument by which any man can sustain
his right to vote, the negro can sustain his right equally. It is plain that, if the right
belongs to any, it belongs to all. The doctrine that some men have no rights that others are
bound to respect, is a doctrine which we must banish as we have banished slavery, from which
it emanated. If black men have no rights in the eyes of white men, of course the whites can
have none in the eyes of the blacks. The result is a war of races, and the annihilation of
all proper human relations.

But suffrage for the negro, while easily sustained upon abstract principles, demands consideration
upon what are recognized as the urgent necessities of the case. It is a measure of relief,--a
shield to break the force of a blow already descending with violence, and render it harmless.
The work of destruction has already been set in motion all over the South. Peace to the country
has literally meant war to the loyal men of the South, white and black; and negro suffrage
is the measure to arrest and put an end to that dreadful strife.

Something then, not by way of argument, (for that has been done by Charles Sumner, Thaddeus
Stevens, Wendell Phillips, Gerrit Smith, and other able men,) but rather of statement and appeal.

For better or for worse, (as in some of the old marriage ceremonies,) the negroes are evidently
a permanent part of the American population. They are too numerous and useful to be colonized,
and too enduring and self-perpetuating to disappear by natural causes. Here they are, four
millions of them, and, for weal or for woe, here they must remain. Their history is parallel
to that of the country; but while the history of the latter has been cheerful and bright with
blessings, theirs has been heavy and dark with agonies and curses. What O'Connell said of the
history of Ireland may with greater truth be said of the negro's. It may be "traced like a
wounded man through a crowd, by the blood." Yet the negroes have marvellously survived all
the exterminating forces of slavery, and have emerged at the end of two hundred and fifty years
of bondage, not morose, misanthropic, and revengeful, but cheerful, hopeful, and forgiving.
They now stand before Congress and the country, not complaining of the past, but simply asking
for a better future. The spectacle of these dusky millions thus imploring, not demanding, is
touching; and if American statesmen could be moved by a simple appeal to the nobler elements
of human nature, if they had not fallen, seemingly, into the incurable habit of weighing and
measuring every proposition of reform by some standard of profit and loss, doing wrong from
choice, and right only from necessity or some urgent demand of human selfishness, it would
be enough to plead for the negroes on the score of past services and sufferings. But no such
appeal shall be relied on here. Hardships, services, sufferings, and sacrifices are all waived.
It is true that they came to the relief of the country at the hour of its extremest need. It
is true that, in many of the rebellious States, they were almost the only reliable friends
the nation had throughout the whole tremendous war. It is true that, notwithstanding their
alleged ignorance, they were wiser than their masters, and knew enough to be loyal, while those
masters only knew enough to be rebels and traitors. It is true that they fought side by side
in the loyal cause with our gallant and patriotic white soldiers, and that, but for their help,--divided
as the loyal States were,--the Rebels might have succeeded in breaking up the Union, thereby
entailing border wars and troubles of unknown duration and incalculable calamity. All this
and more is true of these loyal negroes. Many daring exploits will be told to their credit.
Impartial history will paint them as men who deserved well of their country. It will tell how
they forded and swam rivers, with what consummate address they evaded the sharp-eyed Rebel
pickets, how they toiled in the darkness of night through the tangled marshes of briers and
thorns, barefooted and weary, running the risk of losing their lives, to warn our generals
of Rebel schemes to surprise and destroy our loyal army. It will tell how these poor people,
whose rights we still despised, behaved to our wounded soldiers, when found cold, hungry, and
bleeding on the deserted battle-field; how they assisted our escaping prisoners from Andersonville,
Belle Isle, Castle Thunder, and elsewhere, sharing with them their wretched crusts, and otherwise
affording them aid and comfort; how they promptly responded to the trumpet call for their services,
fighting against a foe that denied them the rights of civilized warfare, and for a government
which was without the courage to assert those rights and avenge their violation in their behalf;
with what gallantry they flung themselves upon Rebel fortifications, meeting death as fearlessly
as any other troops in the service. But upon none of these things is reliance placed. These
facts speak to the better dispositions of the human heart; but they seem of little weight with
the opponents of impartial suffrage.

It is true that a strong plea for equal suffrage might be addressed to the national sense of
honor. Something, too, might be said of national gratitude. A nation might well hesitate before
the temptation to betray its allies. There is something immeasurably mean, to say nothing of
the cruelty, in placing the loyal negroes of the South under the political power of their Rebel
masters. To make peace with our enemies is all well enough; but to prefer our enemies and sacrifice
our friends,--to exalt our enemies and cast down our friends,--to clothe our enemies, who sought
the destruction of the government, with all political power, and leave our friends powerless
in their hands,--is an act which need not be characterized here. We asked the negroes to espouse
our cause, to be our friends, to fight for us, and against their masters; and now, after they
have done all that we asked them to do,--helped us to conquer their masters, and thereby directed
toward themselves the furious hate of the vanquished,--it is proposed in some quarters to turn
them over to the political control of the common enemy of the government and of the negro.
But of this let nothing be said in this place. Waiving humanity, national honor, the claims
of gratitude, the precious satisfaction arising from deeds of charity and justice to the weak
and defenceless,--the appeal for impartial suffrage addresses itself with great pertinency
to the darkest, coldest, and flintiest side of the human heart, and would wring righteousness
from the unfeeling calculations of human selfishness.

For in respect to this grand measure it is the good fortune of the negro that enlightened selfishness,
not less than justice, fights on his side. National interest and national duty, if elsewhere
separated, are firmly united here. The American people can, perhaps, afford to brave the censure
of surrounding nations for the manifest injustice and meanness of excluding its faithful black
soldiers from the ballot-box, but it cannot afford to allow the moral and mental energies of
rapidly increasing millions to be consigned to hopeless degradation.

Strong as we are, we need the energy that slumbers in the black man's arm to make us stronger.
We want no longer any heavy-footed, melancholy service from the negro. We want the cheerful
activity of the quickened manhood of these sable millions. Nor can we afford to endure the
moral blight which the existence of a degraded and hated class must necessarily inflict upon
any people among whom such a class may exist. Exclude the negroes as a class from political
rights,--teach them that the high and manly privilege of suffrage is to be enjoyed by white
citizens only,--that they may bear the burdens of the state, but that they are to have no part
in its direction or its honors,--and you at once deprive them of one of the main incentives
to manly character and patriotic devotion to the interests of the government; in a word, you
stamp them as a degraded caste,--you teach them to despise themselves, and all others to despise
them. Men are so constituted that they largely derive their ideas of their abilities and their
possibilities from the settled judgments of their fellow-men, and especially from such as they
read in the institutions under which they live. If these bless them, they are blest indeed;
but if these blast them, they are blasted indeed. Give the negro the elective franchise, and
you give him at once a powerful motive for all noble exertion, and make him a man among men.
A character is demanded of him, and here as elsewhere demand favors supply. It is nothing against
this reasoning that all men who vote are not good men or good citizens. It is enough that the
possession and exercise of the elective franchise is in itself an appeal to the nobler elements
of manhood, and imposes education as essential to the safety of society.

To appreciate the full force of this argument, it must be observed, that disfranchisement in
a republican government based upon the idea of human equality and universal suffrage, is a
very different thing from disfranchisement in governments based upon the idea of the divine
right of kings, or the entire subjugation of the masses. Masses of men can take care of themselves.
Besides, the disabilities imposed upon all are necessarily without that bitter and stinging
element of invidiousness which attaches to disfranchisement in a republic. What is common to
all works no special sense of degradation to any. But in a country like ours, where men of
all nations, kindred, and tongues are freely enfranchised, and allowed to vote, to say to the
negro, You shall not vote, is to deal his manhood a staggering blow, and to burn into his soul
a bitter and goading sense of wrong, or else work in him a stupid indifference to all the elements
of a manly character. As a nation, we cannot afford to have amongst us either this indifference
and stupidity, or that burning sense of wrong. These sable millions are too powerful to be
allowed to remain either indifferent or discontented. Enfranchise them, and they become self-respecting
and country-loving citizens. Disfranchise them, and the mark of Cain is set upon them less
mercifully than upon the first murderer, for no man was to hurt him. But this mark of inferiority--all
the more palpable because of a difference of color--not only dooms the negro to be a vagabond,
but makes him the prey of insult and outrage everywhere. While nothing may be urged here as
to the past services of the negro, it is quite within the line of this appeal to remind the
nation of the possibility that a time may come when the services of the negro may be a second
time required. History is said to repeat itself, and, if so, having wanted the negro once,
we may want him again. Can that statesmanship be wise which would leave the negro good ground
to hesitate, when the exigencies of the country required his prompt assistance? Can that be
sound statesmanship which leaves millions of men in gloomy discontent, and possibly in a state
of alienation in the day of national trouble? Was not the nation stronger when two hundred
thousand sable soldiers were hurled against the Rebel fortifications, than it would have been
without them? Arming the negro was an urgent military necessity three years ago,--are we sure
that another quite as pressing may not await us? Casting aside all thought of justice and magnanimity,
is it wise to impose upon the negro all the burdens involved in sustaining government against
foes within and foes without, to make him equal sharer in all sacrifices for the public good,
to tax him in peace and conscript him in war, and then coldly exclude him from the ballot-box?

Look across the sea. Is Ireland, in her present condition, fretful, discontented, compelled
to support an establishment in which she does not believe, and which the vast majority of her
people abhor, a source of power or of weakness to Great Britain? Is not Austria wise in removing
all ground of complaint against her on the part of Hungary? And does not the Emperor of Russia
act wisely, as well as generously, when he not only breaks up the bondage of the serf, but
extends him all the advantages of Russian citizenship? Is the present movement in England in
favor of manhood suffrage--for the purpose of bringing four millions of British subjects into
full sympathy and co-operation with the British government--a wise and humane movement, or
otherwise? Is the existence of a rebellious element in our borders--which New Orleans, Memphis,
and Texas show to be only disarmed, but at heart as malignant as ever, only waiting for an
opportunity to reassert itself with fire and sword--a reason for leaving four millions of the
nation's truest friends with just cause of complaint against the Federal government? If the
doctrine that taxation should go hand in hand with representation can be appealed to in behalf
of recent traitors and rebels, may it not properly be asserted in behalf of a people who have
ever been loyal and faithful to the government? The answers to these questions are too obvious
to require statement. Disguise it as we may, we are still a divided nation. The Rebel States
have still an anti-national policy. Massachusetts and South Carolina may draw tears from the
eyes of our tender-hearted President by walking arm in arm into his Philadelphia Convention,
but a citizen of Massachusetts is still an alien in the Palmetto State. There is that, all
over the South, which frightens Yankee industry, capital, and skill from its borders. We have
crushed the Rebellion, but not its hopes or its malign purposes. The South fought for perfect
and permanent control over the Southern laborer. It was a war of the rich against the poor.
They who waged it had no objection to the government, while they could use it as a means of
confirming their power over the laborer. They fought the government, not because they hated
the government as such, but because they found it, as they thought, in the way between them
and their one grand purpose of rendering permanent and indestructible their authority and power
over the Southern laborer. Though the battle is for the present lost, the hope of gaining this
object still exists, and pervades the whole South with a feverish excitement. We have thus
far only gained a Union without unity, marriage without love, victory without peace. The hope
of gaining by politics what they lost by the sword, is the secret of all this Southern unrest;
and that hope must be extinguished before national ideas and objects can take full possession
of the Southern mind. There is but one safe and constitutional way to banish that mischievous
hope from the South, and that is by lifting the laborer beyond the unfriendly political designs
of his former master. Give the negro the elective franchise, and you at once destroy the purely
sectional policy, and wheel the Southern States into line with national interests and national
objects. The last and shrewdest turn of Southern politics is a recognition of the necessity
of getting into Congress immediately, and at any price. The South will comply with any conditions
but suffrage for the negro. It will swallow all the unconstitutional test oaths, repeal all
the ordinances of Secession, repudiate the Rebel debt, promise to pay the debt incurred in
conquering its people, pass all the constitutional amendments, if only it can have the negro
left under its political control. The proposition is as modest as that made on the mountain:
"All these things will I give unto thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me."

But why are the Southerners so willing to make these sacrifices? The answer plainly is, they
see in this policy the only hope of saving something of their old sectional peculiarities and
power. Once firmly seated in Congress, their alliance with Northern Democrats re-established,
their States restored to their former position inside the Union, they can easily find means
of keeping the Federal government entirely too busy with other important matters to pay much
attention to the local affairs of the Southern States. Under the potent shield of State Rights,
the game would be in their own hands. Does any sane man doubt for a moment that the men who
followed Jefferson Davis through the late terrible Rebellion, often marching barefooted and
hungry, naked and penniless, and who now only profess an enforced loyalty, would plunge this
country into a foreign war to-day, if they could thereby gain their coveted independence, and
their still more coveted mastery over the negroes? Plainly enough, the peace not less than
the prosperity of this country is involved in the great measure of impartial suffrage. King
Cotton is deposed, but only deposed, and is ready to-day to reassert all his ancient pretensions
upon the first favorable opportunity. Foreign countries abound with his agents. They are able,
vigilant, devoted. The young men of the South burn with the desire to regain what they call
the lost cause; the women are noisily malignant towards the Federal government. In fact, all
the elements of treason and rebellion are there under the thinnest disguise which necessity
can impose.

What, then, is the work before Congress? It is to save the people of the South from themselves,
and the nation from detriment on their account. Congress must supplant the evident sectional
tendencies of the South by national dispositions and tendencies. It must cause national ideas
and objects to take the lead and control the politics of those States. It must cease to recognize
the old slave-masters as the only competent persons to rule the South. In a word, it must enfranchise
the negro, and by means of the loyal negroes and the loyal white men of the South build up
a national party there, and in time bridge the chasm between North and South, so that our country
may have a common liberty and a common civilization. The new wine must be put into new bottles.
The lamb may not be trusted with the wolf. Loyalty is hardly safe with traitors.

Statesmen of America! beware what you do. The ploughshare of rebellion has gone through the
land beam-deep. The soil is in readiness, and the seed-time has come. Nations, not less than
individuals, reap as they sow. The dreadful calamities of the past few years came not by accident,
nor unbidden, from the ground. You shudder to-day at the harvest of blood sown in the spring-time
of the Republic by your patriot fathers. The principle of slavery, which they tolerated under
the erroneous impression that it would soon die out, became at last the dominant principle
and power at the South. It early mastered the Constitution, became superior to the Union, and
enthroned itself above the law.

Freedom of speech and of the press it slowly but successfully banished from the South, dictated
its own code of honor and manners to the nation, brandished the bludgeon and the bowie-knife
over Congressional debate, sapped the foundations of loyalty, dried up the springs of patriotism,
blotted out the testimonies of the fathers against oppression, padlocked the pulpit, expelled
liberty from its literature, invented nonsensical theories about master-races and slave-races
of men, and in due season produced a Rebellion fierce, foul, and bloody.

This evil principle again seeks admission into our body politic. It comes now in shape of a
denial of political rights to four million loyal colored people. The South does not now ask
for slavery. It only asks for a large degraded caste, which shall have no political rights.
This ends the case. Statesmen, beware what you do. The destiny of unborn and unnumbered generations
is in your hands. Will you repeat the mistake of your fathers, who sinned ignorantly? or will
you profit by the blood-bought wisdom all round you, and forever expel every vestige of the
old abomination from our national borders? As you members of the Thirty-ninth Congress decide,
will the country be peaceful, united, and happy, or troubled, divided, and miserable.

THE NEGRO EXODUS by James B. Runnion

A recent sojourn in the South for a few weeks, chiefly in Louisiana and Mississippi, gave the
writer an opportunity to inquire into what has been so aptly called "the negro exodus." The
emigration of blacks to Kansas began early in the spring of this year. Several thousand negroes
(certainly not fewer than five thousand, and variously estimated as high as ten thousand) had
left their cabins before the rush could be stayed or the excitement lulled. Early in May most
of the negroes who had quit work for the purpose of emigrating, but had not succeeded in getting
off, were persuaded to return to the plantations, and from that time on there have been only
straggling families and groups that have watched for and seized the first opportunity for transportation
to the North. There is no doubt, however, that there is still a consuming desire among the
negroes of the cotton districts in these two States to seek new homes, and there are the best
reasons for believing that the exodus will take a new start next spring, after the gathering
and conversion of the growing crop. Hundreds of negroes who returned from the river-banks for
lack of transportation, and thousands of others infected with the ruling discontent, are working
harder in the fields this summer, and practicing more economy and self-denial than ever before,
in order to have the means next winter and spring to pay their way to the "promised land."

"We've been working for fourteen long years," said an intelligent negro, in reply to a question
as to the cause of the prevailing discontent, "and we ain't no better off than we was when
we commenced." This is the negro version of the trouble, which is elaborated on occasion into
a harrowing story of oppression and plunder.

"I tell you it's all owing to the radical politicians at the North," explained a representative
of the type known as the Bourbons; "they've had their emissaries down here, and deluded the
'niggers' into a very fever of emigration, with the purpose of reducing our basis of representation
in Congress and increasing that of the Northern States."

These are the two extremes of opinion at the South. The first is certainly the more reasonable
and truthful, though it implies that all the blame rests upon the whites, which is not the
case; the second, preposterous as it will appear to Northern readers, is religiously believed
by large numbers of the "unreconciled." The fact seems to be that the emigration movement among
the blacks was spontaneous to the extent that they were ready and anxious to go. The immediate
notion of going may have been inculcated by such circulars, issued by railroads and land companies,
as are common enough at emigrant centres in the North and West, and the exaggeration characteristic
of such literature may have stimulated the imagination of the negroes far beyond anything they
are likely to realize in their new homes. Kansas was naturally the favorite goal of the negro
emigre, for it was associated in his mind with the names of Jim Lane and John Brown, which
are hallowed to him. The timid learned that they could escape what they have come to regard
as a second bondage, and they flocked together to gain the moral support which comes from numbers.

Diligent inquiry among representative men, of all classes and from all parts of Louisiana,
who were in attendance at the constitutional convention in New Orleans, and careful observation
along the river among the land owners and field hands in both Louisiana and Mississippi, left
a vivid impression of some material and political conditions which fully account for the negro
exodus. I have dropped the social conditions out of the consideration, because I became convinced
that the race troubles at the South can be solved to the satisfaction of both whites and blacks
without cultivating any closer social relations than those which now prevail. The material
conditions which I have in mind are less familiar than the political conditions; they are mainly
the land-tenure and credit systems, and mere modifications (scarcely for the better) of the
peculiar plantation system of slavery days.

The cotton lands at the South are owned now, as they were before the war, in large tracts.
The land was about all that most of the Southern whites had left to them after the war, and
they kept it when they could, at the first, in the hope that it would yield them a living through
the labor of the blacks; of late years they have not been able to sell their plantations at
any fair price, if they desired to do so. The white men with capital who went to the South
from the North after the war seemed to acquire the true Southern ambition to be large land
owners and planters; and when the ante-bellum owners lost their plantations the land usually
went in bulk to the city factors who had made them advances from year to year, and had taken
mortgages on their crops and broad acres. As a consequence, the land has never been distributed
among the people who inhabit and cultivate it, and agricultural labor in the Southern States
approaches the condition of the factory labor in England and the Eastern States more nearly
than it does the farm labor of the North and West. Nearly every agricultural laborer north
of Mason and Dixon's line, if not the actual possessor of the land he plows, looks forward
to owning a farm some time; at the South such an ambition is rare, and small ownership still
more an exception. The practice of paying day wages was first tried after the war; this practice
is still in vogue in the sugar and rice districts, where laborers are paid from fifty to seventy
cents per day, with quarters furnished and living guaranteed them at nine or ten cents a day.
In sections where the wages system prevails, and where there have been no political disturbances,
the negroes seem to be perfectly contented; at all events, the emigration fever has not spread
among them. But it was found impracticable to maintain the wage system in the cotton districts.
The negroes themselves fought against it, because it reminded them too much of the slave-gang,
driven out at daybreak and home at sundown. In many cases the planters were forced to abandon
it, because they had not the means to carry on such huge farming, and they could not secure
the same liberal advances from capitalists as when they were able to mortgage a growing "crop
of niggers." Then the system of working on shares was tried. This was reasonably fair, and
the negro laborers were satisfied as long as it lasted. The owners of the land, under this
system, would furnish the indispensable mule and the farming implements, and take one half
the product. The planters themselves relinquished this system. Some of them contend that the
laziness and indifference of the negro made the partnership undesirable; many others admit
that they were not able to advance the negro tenant his supplies pending the growth of the
year's crop, as it was necessary they should do under the sharing system. Now the renting system
is almost universal. It yields the land owner a certainty, endangered only by the death, sickness,
or desertion of the negro tenant; but it throws the latter upon his own responsibility, and
frequently makes him the victim of his own ignorance and the rapacity of the white man. The
rent of land, on a money basis, varies from six to ten dollars an acre per year, while the
same land can be bought in large quantities all the way from fifteen to thirty dollars per
acre, according to location, clearing, improvement, richness, etc. When paid in product, the
rent varies from eighty to one hundred pounds of lint cotton per acre for land that produces
from two hundred to four hundred pounds of cotton per acre; the tenant undertakes to pay from
one quarter to one half--perhaps an average of one third--of his crop for the use of the land,
without stock, tools, or assistance of any kind. The land owners usually claim that they make
no money even at these exorbitant figures. If they do not, it is because only a portion of
their vast possessions is under cultivation, because they do no work themselves, and in some
cases because the negroes do not cultivate and gather as large a crop as they could and ought
to harvest. It is very certain that the negro tenants, as a class, make no money; if they are
out of debt at the end of a season, they have reason to rejoice.

The credit system, which is as universal as the renting system, is even more illogical and
oppressive. The utter viciousness of both systems in their mutual dependence is sufficiently
illustrated by the single fact that, after fourteen years of freedom and labor on their own
account, the great mass of the negroes depend for their living on an advance of supplies (as
they need food, clothing, or tools during the year) upon the pledge of their growing crop.
This is a generic imitation of the white man's improvidence during the slavery times; then
the planters mortgaged their crops and negroes, and where one used the advances to extend his
plantation, ten squandered the money. The negro's necessities have developed an offensive race,
called merchants by courtesy, who keep supply stores at the cross-roads and steamboat landings,
and live upon extortion. These people would be called sharks, harpies, and vampires in any
Northwestern agricultural community, and they would not survive more than one season. The country
merchant advances the negro tenant such supplies as the negro wants up to a certain amount,
previously fixed by contract, and charges the negro at least double the value of every article
sold to him. There is no concealment about the extortion; every store-keeper has his cash price
and his credit price, and in nearly all cases the latter is one hundred per cent. higher than
the former. The extortion is justified by those who practice it on the ground that their losses
by bad debts, though their advances are always secured by mortgage on the growing crop, overbalance
the profits; this assertion is scarcely borne out by the comparative opulence of the "merchant"
and the pitiful poverty of the laborer. Some of the largest and wealthiest planters have sought
to protect their tenants from the merciless clutches of the contrary merchant, who is more
frequently than not an Israelite, by advancing supplies of necessary articles at reasonable
prices. But the necessities of the planter, if not his greed, often betray him into plundering
the negro. The planter himself is generally a victim to usury. He still draws on the city factor
to the extent of ten dollars a bale upon his estimated crop. He pays this factor two and one
half per cent. commission for the advance, eight per cent. interest for the money, two and
one half per cent. more for disposing of the crop when consigned to him, and sometimes still
another commission for the purchase of the supplies. The planter who furnishes his tenants
with supplies on credit is usually paying an interest of fifteen to eighteen per cent. himself,
and necessarily takes some risk in advancing upon an uncertain crop and to a laborer whom he
believes to be neither scrupulous nor industrious; these conditions necessitate more than the
ordinary profit, and in many cases suggest exorbitant and unreasonable charges. But whether
the negro deals with the merchant or the land owner, his extravagance almost invariably exhausts
his credit, even if it be large. The negro is a sensuous creature, and luxurious in his way.
The male is an enormous consumer of tobacco and whisky; the female has an inordinate love for
flummery; both are fond of sardines, potted meats, and canned goods generally, and they indulge
themselves without any other restraint than the refusal of their merchant to sell to them.
The man who advances supplies watches his negro customers constantly; if they are working well
and their crop promises to be large, he will permit and even encourage them to draw upon him
liberally; it is only a partial failure of the crop, or some intimation of the negro's intention
to shirk his obligations, that induces his country factor to preach the virtue of self-restraint,
or moralize upon the advantages of economy.

The land owner's rent and the merchant's advances are both secured by a chattel mortgage on
the tenant's personal property, and by a pledge of the growing crop. The hired laborer (for
it is common for negroes to work for wages for other negroes who rent lands) has also a lien
upon the growing crops second only to the land owner's; but as the law requires that the liens
shall be recorded, which the ignorant laborer usually neglects and the shrewd merchant never
fails to do, the former is generally cheated of his security. Among those who usually work
for hire are the women, who are expert cotton pickers, and the loss of wages which so many
of them have suffered by reason of the prior lien gained by landlord and merchant has helped
to make them earnest and effective advocates of emigration. The Western farmer considers it
hard enough to struggle under one mortgage at a reasonable interest; the negro tenant begins
his season with three mortgages, covering all he owns, his labor for the coming year, and all
he expects to acquire during that period. It is easy to understand why the negro rarely gets
ahead in the world. This mortgaging of future services, which is practically what a pledge
of the growing crop amounts to, is in the nature of bondage. It has a tendency to make the
negro extravagant, reckless, and unscrupulous; he has become convinced from previous experience
that nothing will be coming to him on the day of settlement, and he is frequently actuated
by the purpose of getting as much as possible and working as little as possible. Cases are
numerous in which the negro abandons his own crop at picking time, because he knows that he
has already eaten up its full value; and so he goes to picking for wages on some other plantation.
In other cases, where negroes have acquired mules and farming implements upon which a merchant
has secured a mortgage in the manner described, they are practically bound to that merchant
from year to year, in order to retain their property; if he removes from one section to another,
they must follow him, and rent and cultivate lands in his neighborhood. It is only the ignorance,
the improvidence, and the happy disposition of the negro, under the influence of the lazy,
drowsy climate, to which he is so well adapted physically, that have enabled him to endure
these hardships so long. And, though the negro is the loser, the white man is not often the
gainer, from this false plantation and mercantile system. The incidental risk may not be so
large as the planter and merchant pretend, but the condition of the people is an evidence that
the extortion they practice yields no better profit in the long run than would be gained by
competition in fair prices on a cash system; and in leading up to a general emigration of the
laboring population the abuses described will eventually ruin and impoverish those who have
heretofore been the only beneficiaries thereof. The decay of improvements inevitable under
annual rentings, the lack of sufficient labor to cultivate all the good land, and the universal
idleness of the rural whites have kept the land owners comparatively poor; the partial failure
of crops and the unscrupulousness of the negro debtor, engendered by the infamous exactions
of his creditor, have prevented the merchants, as a class, from prospering as much as might
be supposed; and, finally, the uniform injustice to the laborers induces them to fly to ills
they know not of, rather than bear those they have. It is a blessing to the negro that the
laws do not yet provide for a detention of the person in the case of debt, or escape would
be shut off entirely; as it is, various influences and circumstances appertaining to the system
in vogue have been used to prevent the easy flight of those who desire to go, and have detained
thousands of blacks for a time who are fretting to quit the country.

Political oppression has contributed largely to the discontent which is the prime cause of
the exodus. "Bulldozing" is the term by which all forms of this oppression are known. The native
whites are generally indisposed to confess that the negroes are quitting the country on account
of political injustice and persecution; even those who freely admit and fitly characterize
the abuses already described seek to deny, or at least belittle, the political abuses. The
fact that a large number of negroes have emigrated from Madison Parish, Louisiana, where there
has never been any bulldozing, and where the negroes are in full and undisputed political control,
is cited as proof that political disturbances cut no figure in the case. But the town of Delta,
in Madison Parish, is at once on the river and the terminus of a railroad that runs back through
the interior of the State; thus Madison Parish would furnish the natural exit for the fugitives
from the adjoining counties, where there have been political disturbances. It would be just
as reasonable to contend that the plundering of the negroes has had no influence in driving
them away, since many of those who have emigrated were among the most prosperous of the blacks,
as to deny the agency of political persecution. Families that had been able to accumulate a
certain amount of personal property, in spite of the extortionate practices, sold their mules,
their implements, their cows, their pigs, their sheep, and their household goods for anything
they would bring,--frequently as low as one sixth of their value,--in order that they might
improve an immediate opportunity to go away; it is evident that there must have been some cause
outside of extortion in their case. There are candid native whites who do not deny, but justify,
the violent methods which have been employed to disfranchise the negroes, or compel them to
vote under white dictation, in many parts of Louisiana and Mississippi, on the ground that
the men who pay the taxes should vote them and control the disbursement of the public moneys.
The gentlemen who advance this argument seem to ignore the fact that the very Northerner whom
they are seeking to convert to "the Mississippi plan" may himself be a taxpayer in some Northern
city, where public affairs are controlled by a class of voters in every way as ignorant and
irresponsible as the blacks, but where bulldozing has never yet been suggested as a remedy.
For the rest, the evidences of political oppression are abundant and convincing. The bulldozers
as a class are more impecunious and irresponsible than the negroes, and, unlike the negroes,
they will not work. There has been more of the "night-riding," the whippings, the mysterious
disappearances, the hangings, and the terrorism comprehended in the term bulldozing than has
been reported by those "abstracts and brief chronicles of the time," the Southern newspapers,
which are now all of one party, and defer to the ruling sentiment among the whites. The exodus
has wrung from two or three of the more candid and independent journals, however, a virtual
confession of the fiendish practices of bulldozing in their insistance that these practices
must be abandoned. The non-resident land owners and the resident planters, the city factors
and the country merchants of means and respectability, have taken no personal part in the terrorizing
of the negro, but they have tolerated it, and sometimes encouraged it, in order to gratify
their preference for "white government." The negroes have suffered the more because they have
not resisted and defended themselves; now they have begun to convince those who have persecuted
them that, if they will not strike back, they can and will run away. No one who is at all familiar
with the freedman can doubt that the abridgment of his political rights has been one of the
main causes of the exodus. Voting is widely regarded at the North as a disagreeable duty, but
the negro looks upon it as the highest privilege in life; to be frightened out of the exercise
of this privilege, or compelled to exercise it in conflict with his convictions and preferences,
is to suffer from a cruel injustice, which the negro will now try to escape, since he has learned
that escape is possible. The women, though free from personal assaults, suffer from the terrorism
that prevails in certain districts as much as the men. "We might as well starve or freeze to
death in Kansas," they say, "as to be shot-gunned here." If they talk to you in confidence,
they declare that the ruling purpose is to escape from the "slaughter-pens" of the South. Political
persecution, and not the extortion they suffer, is the refrain of all the speakers at negro
meetings that are held in encouragement and aid of the emigration. It is idle to deny that
the varied injustice which the negroes have suffered as voters is accountable for a large part
of their universal yearning for new homes, and it will be folly for the responsible classes
at the South to ignore this fact.

As it is the negroes who are fleeing from the South, it is natural to look among the dominant
class for the injustice which is driving them away; but it would be unfair to conclude that
the blame rests entirely upon the whites, and still more so to leave the impression that there
is no extenuation for the mistakes and abuses for which the whites are responsible. Much of
the intimidation of the blacks has been tolerated, if not suggested, by a fear of negro uprisings.
The apprehension is a legacy from the days of slavery, and is more unreasonable now than it
was then; but still it exists. This is not an excuse, but an explanation. The Pharaohs of the
time of Moses were in constant dread lest the Hebrews under their rule should go over to their
enemies, and their dread doubtless increased the cruelty of the Egyptians; but, while this
dread was an extenuation in the eyes of the persecutors, it did not prevent the Hebrews from
fleeing the persecution. So the blacks are going without regard to the justification which
the whites may set up for their treatment; the only difference between the old and new exodus
is that, as the writer heard one negro speaker express it, "every black man is his own Moses
in this exodus." The negro may be lazy; it seems impossible to be otherwise in the Southern
climate. He may not be willing to work on Saturdays, no matter how urgent the necessity; the
indulgence in holidays is said to be one of the chief drawbacks to the advancement of the emancipated
serfs of Russia. The blacks are certainly extravagant in their way, though the word seems to
be almost misused in connection with a race who live largely on pork and molasses, and rarely
wear more than half a dollar's worth of clothes at one time. They have not the instinct of
home as it prevails among the whites, but incline to a crude and unsystematic communism; the
negro quarters of the old plantations are all huddled together in the centre, and, except where
the land owners have interfered to encourage a different life, there is still too much promiscuousness
in the relation of the sexes. The negro, as a rule, has no ambition to become a land owner;
he prefers to invest his surplus money, when he has any, in personal and movable property.
In most cases where the blacks have been given the opportunity of buying land on long time,
and paying yearly installments out of the proceeds of their annual crops, they have tired of
the bargain after a year or two, and abandoned the contract. The negro politicians and preachers
are not all that reformers and moralists would have them; the imitative faculty of the African
has betrayed the black politician into many of the vicious ways of the white politician, and
the colored preacher is frequently not above "the pomps and vanity of this wicked world." All
this is the more unfortunate, as the blacks have a child-like confidence in their chosen leaders,
founded partly on their primitive character, and partly on their distrust of the native whites.
Both their politicians and their preachers have given abundant evidence of their insincerity
during the excitement of emigration by blowing hot and blowing cold; by talking to the negroes
one way, and to the whites another; and even to the extent, in some instances, of taking money
to use their influence for discouraging and impeding emigration. These are some of the faults
and misfortunes on the part of the blacks which enter into the race troubles. The chief blame
which attaches to the whites is the failure to make a persistent effort, by education and kind
treatment, to overcome the distrust and cure the faults of the negroes. The whites control,
because they constitute the "property and intelligence" of the South, to use the words of a
democratic statesman; this power should have been used to gain the confidence of the blacks.
Had such a course been taken, there would not have been the fear of reenslavement, which actually
prevails to a considerable extent among the negroes. So long as a portion of the whites entertain
the conviction that the war of the sections will be renewed within a few years, as is the case,
the negroes will suspect and dread the class who would treat them as enemies in case the war
should come, and will seek to escape to a section of the country where they would not be so
treated. Perhaps, too, there would have been a voluntary political division among the black
voters, had the whites used more pacific means to bring it about, and had they themselves set
the example. And last, but not least, in making up the sum of blame that the whites must bear,
is their own unwillingness to labor, which gives the rural population too much time for mischief
and too little sympathy with the working classes.

As we have traced the causes that have led to the exodus, and described the conditions which
warrant the belief that there will be a renewal of the emigration on a more extended scale
next spring, and endeavored to distribute the responsibility for the troubles equitably among
whites and blacks, remedies have naturally suggested themselves to the reader; in fact, they
are more easily to be thought out than accomplished. A few general reflections may be added,
however, in order to indicate the probable solution of the race troubles that have brought
about the exodus, if, indeed, the whites and blacks of the South are ever going to live together
in peace.

(1.) It is certain that negro labor is the best the South can have, and equally certain that
the climate and natural conditions of the South are better suited to the negro than any others
on this continent. The alluvial lands, which many persons believe the negroes alone can cultivate,
on account of climatic conditions, are so rich that it might literally be said it is only necessary
to tickle them with a hoe to make them laugh back a harvest. The common prosperity of the country--the
agricultural interests of the South and the commercial interests of the North--will be best
served, therefore, by the continued residence and labor of the blacks in the cotton States.

(2.) The fact stated in the foregoing paragraph is so well understood at the North that the
Southern people should dismiss the idea that there is any scheming among the Northern people,
political or otherwise, to draw the black labor away from its natural home. The same fact should
also influence the people at the North not to be misled by any professional philanthropists
who may have some self-interest in soliciting aid to facilitate negro emigration from the South.
The duty of the North in this matter is simply to extend protection and assure safe-conduct
to the negroes, if the Southern whites attempt to impede voluntary emigration by either law
or violence. Any other course might be cruel to the negro in encouraging him to enter on a
new life in a strange climate, as well as an injustice to the white land owners of the South.

(3.) There is danger that the Southern whites will, as a rule, misinterpret the meaning of
the exodus. Many are inclined to underrate its importance, and those who appreciate its significance
are apt to look for temporary and superficial remedies. The vague promises made at the Vicksburg
convention, which was controlled by the whites, and called to consider the emigration movement,
have had no influence with the negroes, because they have heard such promises before. Had the
convention adopted some definite plan of action, such as ex-Governor Foote, of Mississippi,
submitted, its session might not have been in vain. It is short-sighted for the Southern people
to make mere temporary concessions, such as have been made in some cases this year, for that
course would establish an annual strike. It is folly for them to suppose they can stem the
tide of emigration by influencing the regular lines of steamboats not to carry the refugees,
for the people of the North will see that the blacks shall not be detained in the South against
their will. It is unwise for them to devise schemes for importing Chinese, or encouraging the
immigration of white labor as a substitute for negro labor, when they may much better bestir
themselves to make the present effective labor content.

(4.) Education will be the most useful agent to employ in the permanent harmonizing of the
two races, and the redemption of both from the faults and follies which constitute their troubles.
It is not the education of the negro alone, whose ambition for learning is increasing notably
with every new generation, but the education of the mass of the young whites, that is needed
to inculcate more tolerance of color and opinion, to give them an aspiration beyond that of
riding a horse and hanging a "nigger," and to enable them to set a better example to the imitative
blacks in the way of work and frugality. The blacks need the education to protect them from
designing white men; the whites need it to teach them that their own interests will be best
served by abandoning bulldozing of all kinds.

(5.) Reform in the land tenure, by converting the plantation monopolies into small holdings;
abolition of the credit system, by abandoning the laws which sustain it; a diversification
of crops; and attention to new manufacturing, maritime, and commercial enterprises,--these
are the material changes that are most needed. They can be secured only through the active
and earnest efforts of the whites. The blacks will be found responsive.

(6.) The hope of the negro exodus at its present stage, or even if it shall continue another
season, is that the actual loss of the valuable labor that has gone, and the prospective loss
of more labor that is anxious to go, will induce the intelligent and responsible classes at
the South to overcome their own prejudices, and to compel the extremists, irreconcilables,
and politicians generally, of all parties, to abandon agitation, and give the South equal peace
and equal chance for black and white. I was engaged in grape-culture in northern Ohio, and
decided to look for a locality suitable for carrying on the same business in some Southern
State. A cordial invitation to visit him while I looked into the matter was accepted.

I went several times to look at a place which I thought might suit me. It had been at one time
a thriving plantation, but shiftless cultivation had well-night exhausted the soil. There had
been a vineyard of some extent on the place, but it had not been attended to since the war,
and had fallen into utter neglect. But the house had fallen a victim to the fortunes of war,
and nothing remained of it except the brick pillars upon which the sills had rested.

"'Dilsey!' sezee.

"Dilsey walk' right on, en didn' notice 'im. Another time, when riding on the outer edges of
a town in the South, I heard the sound of a piano coming from a cabin of the same kind. Contriving
some excuse, I entered, and began a conversation with the young colored woman who was playing,
and who had recently returned from a boarding-school, where she had been studying instrumental
music among other things. Despite the fact that her parents were living in a rented cabin,
eating poorly cooked food, surrounded with poverty, and having almost none of the conveniences
of life, she had persuaded them to rent a piano for four or five dollars per month. Many such
instances as these, in connection with my own struggles, impressed upon me the importance of
making a study of our needs as a race, and applying the remedy accordingly.

Some one may be tempted to ask, Has not the negro boy or girl as good a right to study a French
grammar and instrumental music as the white youth? I answer, Yes, but in the present condition
of the negro race in this country there is need of something more. Perhaps I may be forgiven
for the seeming egotism if I mention the expansion of my own life partly as an example of what
I mean. Twenty-five industries have been organized, and the whole work is carried on at an
annual cost of about $80,000 in cash; two fifths of the annual expense so far has gone into
permanent plant. It is of the utmost importance that our energy be given to meeting conditions
that exist right about us rather than conditions that existed centuries ago or that exist in
countries a thousand miles away. What are the cardinal needs among the seven millions of colored
people in the South, most of whom are to be found on the plantations? Notwithstanding that
eighty-five per cent of the colored people in the South live by agriculture in some form, aside
from what has been done by Hampton, Tuskegee, and one or two other institutions practically
nothing has been attempted in the direction of teaching them about the very industry from which
the masses of our people must get their subsistence. In this way all but three of the thirty
buildings on the grounds have been erected. This is far from being the object at Tuskegee.

Nothing else so soon brings about right relations between the two races in the South as the
industrial progress of the negro.

Let us go on for a few more years knitting our business and industrial relations into those
of the white man, till a black man gets a mortgage on a white man's house that he can foreclose
at will. The white man on whose house the mortgage rests will not try to prevent that negro
from voting when he goes to the polls. Whether he will or not, a white man respects a negro
who owns a two-story brick house. Labor with him was a badge of degradation.

The social lines that were once sharply drawn between those who labored with the hand and those
who did not are disappearing. As its members become absorbed in occupations, they have less
time to attend to everybody else's business, and more time for their own. Many of those who
a few years ago opposed general education are now among its warmest advocates.

THE STORY OF UNCLE TOM'S CABIN by Charles Dudley Warner

On the 29th of June, 1852, Henry Clay died. In that month the two great political parties,
in their national conventions, had accepted as a finality all the compromise measures of 1850,
and the last hours of the Kentucky statesman were brightened by the thought that his efforts
had secured the perpetuity of the Union.

But on the 20th of March, 1852, there had been an event, the significance of which was not
taken into account by the political conventions or by Clay, which was to test the conscience
of the nation. This was the publication of Uncle Tom's Cabin. Was this only an "event," the
advent of a new force in politics; was the book merely an abolition pamphlet, or was it a novel,
one of the few great masterpieces of fiction that the world has produced? After the lapse of
forty-four years and the disappearance of African slavery on this continent, it is perhaps
possible to consider this question dispassionately.

The compromise of 1850 satisfied neither the North nor the South. The admission of California
as a free State was regarded by Calhoun as fatal to the balance between the free and the slave
States, and thereafter a fierce agitation sprang up for the recovery of this loss of balance,
and ultimately for Southern preponderance, which resulted in the repeal of the Missouri Compromise,
the Kansas-Nebraska war, and the civil war. The fugitive slave law was hateful to the North
not only because it was cruel and degrading, but because it was seen to be a move formed for
nationalizing slavery. It was unsatisfactory to the South because it was deemed inadequate
in its provisions, and because the South did not believe the North would execute it in good
faith. So unstable did the compromise seem that in less than a year after the passage of all
its measures, Henry Clay and forty-four Senators and Representatives united in a manifesto
declaring that they would support no man for office who was not known to be opposed to any
disturbance of the settlements of the compromise. When, in February, 1851, the recaptured fugitive
slave, Burns, was rescued from the United States officers in Boston, Clay urged the investment
of the President with extraordinary power to enforce the law.

Henry Clay was a patriot, a typical American. The republic and its preservation were the passions
of his life. Like Lincoln, who was born in the State of his adoption, he was willing to make
almost any sacrifice for the maintenance of the Union. He had no sympathy with the system of
slavery. There is no doubt that he would have been happy in the belief that it was in the way
of gradual and peaceful extinction. With him, it was always the Union before state rights and
before slavery. Unlike Lincoln, he had not the clear vision to see that the republic could
not endure half slave and half free. He believed that the South, appealing to the compromises
of the Constitution, would sacrifice the Union before it would give up slavery, and in fear
of this menace he begged the North to conquer its prejudices. We are not liable to overrate
his influence as a compromising pacificator from 1832 to 1852. History will no doubt say that
it was largely due to him that the war on the Union was postponed to a date when its success
was impossible.

It was the fugitive slave law that brought the North face to face with slavery nationalized,
and it was the fugitive slave law that produced Uncle Tom's Cabin. The effect of this story
was immediate and electric. It went straight to the hearts of tens of thousands of people who
had never before considered slavery except as a political institution for which they had no
personal responsibility. What was this book, and how did it happen to produce such an effect?
It is true that it struck into a time of great irritation and agitation, but in one sense there
was nothing new in it. The facts had all been published. For twenty years abolition tracts,
pamphlets, newspapers, and books had left little to be revealed, to those who cared to read,
as to the nature of slavery or its economic aspects. The evidence was practically all in,--supplied
largely by the advertisements of Southern newspapers and by the legislation of the slaveholding
States,--but it did not carry conviction; that is, the sort of conviction that results in action.
The subject had to be carried home to the conscience. Pamphleteering, convention-holding, sermons,
had failed to do this. Even the degrading requirements of the fugitive slave law, which brought
shame and humiliation, had not sufficed to fuse the public conscience, emphasize the necessity
of obedience to the moral law, and compel recognition of the responsibility of the North for
slavery. Evidence had not done this, passionate appeals had not done it, vituperation had not
done it. What sort of presentation of the case would gain the public ear and go to the heart?
If Mrs. Stowe, in all her fervor, had put forth first the facts in The Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin,
which so buttressed her romance, the book would have had no more effect than had followed the
like compilations and arraignments. What was needed? If we can discover this, we shall have
the secret of this epoch-making novel.

The story of this book has often been told. It is in the nature of a dramatic incident of which
the reader never tires any more than the son of Massachusetts does of the minutest details
of that famous scene in the Senate Chamber when Webster replied to Hayne.

At the age of twenty-four the author was married and went to live in Cincinnati, where her
husband held a chair in the Lane Theological Seminary. There for the first time she was brought
into relations with the African race and saw the effects of slavery. She visited slaveholders
in Kentucky and had friends among them. In some homes she saw the "patriarchal" institution
at its best. The Beecher family were anti-slavery, but they had not been identified with the
abolitionists, except perhaps Edward, who was associated with the murdered Lovejoy. It was
long a reproach brought by the abolitionists against Henry Ward Beecher that he held entirely
aloof from their movement. At Cincinnati, however, the personal aspects of the case were brought
home to Mrs. Stowe. She learned the capacities and peculiarities of the negro race. They were
her servants; she taught some of them; hunted fugitives applied to her; she ransomed some by
her own efforts; every day there came to her knowledge stories of the hunger for freedom, of
the ruthless separation of man and wife and mother and child, and of the heroic sufferings
of those who ran away from the fearful doom of those "sold down South." These things crowded
upon her mind and awoke her deepest compassion. But what could she do against all the laws,
the political and commercial interests, the great public apathy? Relieve a case here and there,
yes. But to dwell upon the gigantic evil, with no means of making head against it, was to invite
insanity.

As late as 1850, when Professor Stowe was called to Bowdoin College, and the family removed
to Brunswick, Maine, Mrs. Stowe had not felt impelled to the duty she afterwards undertook.
"In fact, it was a sort of general impression upon her mind, as upon that of many humane people
in those days, that the subject was so dark and painful a one, so involved in difficulty and
obscurity, so utterly beyond human hope or help, that it was of no use to read, or think, or
distress one's self about it." But when she reached New England the excitement over the fugitive
slave law was at its height. There was a panic in Boston among the colored people settled there,
who were daily fleeing to Canada. Every mail brought her pitiful letters from Boston, from
Illinois, and elsewhere, of the terror and despair caused by the law. Still more was the impressed
by the apathy of the Christian world at the North, and surely, she said, the people did not
understand what the "system" was. Appeals were made to her, who had some personal knowledge
of the subject, to take up her pen. The task seemed beyond her in every way. She was not strong,
she was in the midst of heavy domestic cares, with a young infant, with pupils to whom she
was giving daily lessons, and the limited income of the family required the strictest economy.
The dependence was upon the small salary of Professor Stowe, and the few dollars she could
earn by an occasional newspaper or magazine article. But the theme burned in her mind, and
finally took this shape: at least she would write some sketches and show the Christian world
what slavery really was, and what the system was that they were defending. She wanted to do
this with entire fairness, showing all the mitigations of the "patriarchal" system, and all
that individuals concerned in it could do to alleviate its misery. While pondering this she
came by chance, in a volume of an anti-slavery magazine, upon the authenticated account of
the escape of a woman with her child on the ice across the Ohio River from Kentucky. She began
to meditate. The faithful slave husband in Kentucky, who had refused to escape from a master
who trusted him, when he was about to be sold "down river," came to her as a pattern of Uncle
Tom, and the scenes of the story began to form themselves in her mind. "The first part of the
book ever committed to writing [this is the statement of Mrs. Stowe] was the death of Uncle
Tom. This scene presented itself almost as a tangible vision to her mind while sitting at the
communion-table in the little church in Brunswick. She was perfectly overcome by it, and could
scarcely restrain the convulsion of tears and sobbings that shook her frame. She hastened home
and wrote it, and her husband being away, read it to her two sons of ten and twelve years of
age. The little fellows broke out into convulsions of weeping, one of them saying through his
sobs, 'Oh, mamma, slavery is the most cursed thing in the world!' From that time the story
can less be said to have been composed by her than imposed upon her. Scenes, incidents, conversations
rushed upon her with a vividness and importunity that would not be denied. The book insisted
upon getting itself into being, and would take no denial."

When two or three chapters were written she wrote to her friend, Dr. Bailey, of Washington,
the editor of The National Era, to which she had contributed, that she was planning a story
that might run through several numbers of the Era. The story was at once applied for, and thereafter
weekly installments were sent on regularly, in spite of all cares and distractions. The installments
were mostly written during the morning, on a little desk in a corner of the dining-room of
the cottage in Brunswick, subject to all the interruptions of house-keeping, her children bursting
into the room continually with the importunity of childhood. But they did not break the spell
or destroy her abstraction. With a smile and a word and a motion of the hand she would wave
them off, and keep on in her magician's work. Long afterwards they recalled this, dimly understood
at the time, and wondered at her power of concentration. Usually at night the chapters were
read to the family, who followed the story with intense feeling. The narrative ran on for nine
months, exciting great interest among the limited readers of the Era, and gaining sympathetic
words from the anti-slavery people, but without making any wide impression on the public.

We may pause here in the narrative to note two things: the story was not the work of a novice,
and it was written out of abundant experience and from an immense mass of accumulated thought
and material. Mrs. Stowe was in her fortieth year. She had been using her pen since she was
twelve years old, in extensive correspondence, in occasional essays, in short stories and sketches,
some of which appeared in a volume called The Mayflower, published in 1843, and for many years
her writing for newspapers and periodicals had added appreciably to the small family income.
She was in the maturity of her intellectual powers, she was trained in the art of writing,
and she had, as Walter Scott had when he began the Waverley Novels at the age of forty-three,
abundant store of materials on which to draw. To be sure, she was on fire with a moral purpose,
but she had the dramatic instinct, and she felt that her object would not be reached by writing
an abolition tract.

"In shaping her material the author had but one purpose, to show the institution of slavery
truly, just as it existed. She had visited in Kentucky; had formed the acquaintance of people
who were just, upright, and generous, and yet slave-holders. She had heard their views, and
appreciated their situation; she felt that justice required that their difficulties should
be recognized and their virtues acknowledged. It was her object to show that the evils of slavery
were the inherent evils of a bad system, and not always the fault of those who had become involved
in it and were its actual administrators. Then she was convinced that the presentation of slavery
alone, in its most dreadful forms, would be a picture of such unrelieved horror and darkness
as nobody could be induced to look at. Of set purpose, she sought to light up the darkness
by humorous and grotesque episodes, and the presentation of the milder and more amusing phases
of slavery, for which her recollection of the never-failing wit and drollery of her former
colored friends in Ohio gave her abundant material."

This is her own account of the process, years after. But it is evident that, whether consciously
or unconsciously, she did but follow the inevitable law of all great dramatic creators and
true story-tellers since literature began.

For this story Mrs. Stowe received from the Era the sum of three hundred dollars. Before it
was finished it attracted the attention of Mr. J. P. Jewett, of Boston, a young and then unknown
publisher, who offered to issue it in book form. His offer was accepted, but as the tale ran
on he became alarmed at its length, and wrote to the author that she was making the story too
long for a one-volume novel; that the subject was unpopular; that people would not willingly
hear much about it; that one short volume might possibly sell, but that if it grew to two that
might prove a fatal obstacle to its success. Mrs. Stowe replied that she did not make the story,
that the story made itself, and that she could not stop it till it was done. The publisher
hesitated. It is said that a competent literary critic to whom he submitted it sat up all night
with the novel, and then reported, "The story has life in it; it will sell." Mr. Jewett proposed
to Professor Stowe to publish it on half profits if he would share the expenses. This offer
was declined, for the Stowes had no money to advance, and the common royalty of ten per cent
on the sales was accepted.

Mrs. Stowe was not interested in this business transaction. She was thinking only of having
the book circulated for the effect she had at heart. The intense absorption in the story held
her until the virtual end in the death of Uncle Tom, and then it seemed as if the whole vital
force had left her. She sank into a profound discouragement. Would this appeal, which she had
written with her heart's blood, go for nothing, as all the prayers and tears and strivings
had already gone? Resolved to leave nothing undone to attract attention to her cause, she wrote
letters and ordered copies of her novel sent to men of prominence who had been known for their
anti-slavery sympathies,--to Prince Albert, Macaulay, Charles Dickens, Charles Kingsley, and
Lord Carlisle. Then she waited for the result.

She had not long to wait. The success of the book was immediate. Three thousand copies were
sold the first day, within a few days ten thousand copies had gone, on the 1st of April a second
edition went to press, and thereafter eight presses running day and night were barely able
to keep pace with the demand for it. Within a year three hundred thousand copies were sold.
No work of fiction ever spread more quickly throughout the reading community or awakened a
greater amount of public feeling. It was read by everybody, learned and unlearned, high and
low, for it was an appeal to universal human sympathy, and the kindling of this spread the
book like wildfire. At first it seemed to go by acclamation. But this was not altogether owing
to sympathy with the theme. I believe that it was its power as a novel that carried it largely.
The community was generally apathetic when it was not hostile to any real effort to be rid
of slavery. This presently appeared. At first there were few dissenting voices from the chorus
of praise. But when the effect of the book began to be evident it met with an opposition fiercer
and more personal than the great wave of affectionate thankfulness which greeted it at first.
The South and the defenders and apologists of slavery everywhere were up in arms. It was denounced
in pulpit and in press, and some of the severest things were said of it at the North. The leading
religious newspaper of the country, published in New York, declared that it was "anti-Christian."

Mrs. Stowe was twice astonished: first by its extraordinary sale, and second by the quarter
from which the assault on it came. She herself says that her expectations were strikingly different
from the facts. "She had painted slaveholders as amiable, generous, and just. She had shown
examples among them of the noblest and most beautiful traits of character; had admitted fully
their temptations, their perplexities, and their difficulties, so that a friend of hers who
had many relatives in the South wrote to her: 'Your book is going to be the great pacificator;
it will unite both North and South.' Her expectation was that the professed abolitionists would
denounce it as altogether too mild in its dealings with slaveholders. To her astonishment,
it was the extreme abolitionists who received, and the entire South who rose up against it."

There is something almost amusing in Mrs. Stowe's honest expectation that the deadliest blow
the system ever suffered should have been received thankfully by those whose traditions, education,
and interests were all bound up in it. And yet from her point of view it was not altogether
unreasonable. Her blackest villain and most loathsome agent of the system, Legree, was a native
of Vermont. All her wrath falls upon the slave-traders, the auctioneers, the public whippers,
and the overseers, and all these persons and classes were detested by the Southerners to the
point of loathing, and were social outcasts. The slave-traders and the overseers were tolerated
as perhaps necessary in the system, but they were never admitted into respectable society.
This feeling Mrs. Stowe regarded as a condemnation of the system.

Pecuniary reward was the last thing that Mrs. Stowe expected for her disinterested labor, but
it suits the world's notion of the fitness of things that this was not altogether wanting.
For the millions of copies of Uncle Tom scattered over the world the author could expect nothing,
but in her own country her copyright yielded her a moderate return that lifted her out of poverty
and enabled her to pursue her philanthropic and literary career. Four months after the publication
of the book Professor Stowe was in the publisher's office, and Mr. Jewett asked him how much
he expected to receive. "I hope," said Professor Stowe, with a whimsical smile, "that it will
be enough to buy my wife a silk dress." The publisher handed him a check for ten thousand dollars.

Before Mrs. Stowe had a response to the letters accompanying the books privately sent to England,
the novel was getting known there. Its career in Great Britain paralleled its success in America.
In April a copy reached London in the hands of a gentleman who had taken it on the steamer
to read. He gave it to Mr. Henry Vizetelly, who submitted it to Mr. David Bogue, a man known
for his shrewdness and enterprise. He took a night to consider it, and then declined it, although
it was offered to him for five pounds. A Mr. Gilpin also declined it. It was then submitted
to Mr. Salisbury, a printer. This taster for the public sat up with the book till four o'clock
in the morning, alternately weeping and laughing. Fearing, however, that this result was due
to his own weakness, he woke up his wife, whom he describes as a rather strong-minded woman,
and finding that the story kept her awake and made her also laugh and cry, he thought it might
safely be printed. It seems, therefore, that Mr. Vizetelly ventured to risk five pounds, and
the volume was brought out through the nominal agency of Clarke & Company. In the first week
an edition of seven thousand was worked off. It made no great stir until the middle of June,
but during July it sold at the rate of one thousand a week. By the 20th of August the demand
for it was overwhelming. The printing firm was then employing four hundred people in getting
it out, and seventeen printing-machines, besides hand-presses. Already one hundred and fifty
thousand copies were sold. Mr. Vizetelly disposed of his interest, and a new printing firm
began to issue monster editions. About this time the publishers awoke to the fact that any
one was at liberty to reprint the book, and the era of cheap literature was initiated, founded
on American reprints which cost the publisher no royalty. A shilling edition followed the one-and-sixpence,
and then one complete for sixpence. Later, abridgments were published.

Almost simultaneously with this furor in England the book made its way on the Continent. Several
translations appeared in Germany and France, and for the authorized French edition Mrs. Stowe
wrote a new preface, which served thereafter for most of the European editions. I find no record
of the order of the translations of the book into foreign languages, but those into some of
the Oriental tongues did not appear till several years after the great excitement. Into some
of these languages several translations were made. In 1878 the British Museum contained thirty-five
editions of the original text, and eight editions of abridgments or adaptations. Mrs. Stowe
had neglected to secure the dramatic rights, and she derived no benefit from the great popularity
of a drama which still holds the stage. From the phenomenal sale of a book which was literally
read by the whole world, the author received only the ten per cent on the American editions,
and by the laws of her own country her copyright expired before her death.

The narrative of the rise and fortunes of this book would be incomplete without some reference
to the response that the author received from England and the Continent, and of her triumphant
progress through the British Isles. Her letters accompanying the special copies were almost
immediately replied to, generally in terms of enthusiastic and fervent thankfulness for the
book, and before midsummer her mail contained letters from all classes of English society.
In some of them appeared a curious evidence of the English sensitiveness to criticism. Lord
Carlisle and Sir Arthur Helps supplemented their admiration by a protest against the remark
in the mouth of one of the characters that "slaves are better off than a large class of the
population of England." This occurred in the defense of the institution by St. Clare, but it
was treated by the British correspondents as the opinion of Mrs. Stowe.

In April, 1853, Mr. and Mrs. Stowe and the latter's brother, Charles Beecher, sailed for Europe.
Her reception there was like a royal progress. She was met everywhere by deputations and addresses,
and the enthusiasm her presence called forth was thoroughly democratic, extending from the
highest in rank to the lowest.

At a reception in Stafford House, London, the Duchess of Sutherland presented her with a massive
gold bracelet, which has an interesting history. It is made of ten oval links in imitation
of slave fetters. On two of the links were the inscriptions "March 25, 1807," the date of the
abolition of the slave-trade, and "August 1, 1838," the date of the abolition of slavery in
all British territory. The third inscription is "562,848--March 19, 1853," the date of the
address of the women of England to the women of America on slavery, and the number of the women
who signed. It was Mrs. Stowe's privilege to add to these inscriptions the following: "Emancipation
D. C. Apl. 16, '62;" "President's Proclamation Jan. 1, '63;" "Maryland free Oct. 13, '64;"
"Missouri free Jan. 11, '65;" and on the clasp link, "Constitution amended by Congress Jan.
31, '65. Constitutional Amendment ratified." Two of the links are vacant. What will the progress
of civilization in America offer for the links nine and ten?

One of the most remarkable documents which resulted from Uncle Tom was an address from the
women of England to the women of America, acknowledging the complicity in slavery of England,
but praying aid in removing from the world "our common crimes and common dishonor," which was
presented to Mrs. Stowe in 1853. It was the result of a meeting at Stafford House, and the
address, composed by Lord Shaftesbury, was put into the hands of canvassers in England and
on the Continent, and as far as Jerusalem. The signatures of 562,848 women were obtained, with
their occupations and residences, from the nobility on the steps of the throne down to maids
in the kitchen. The address is handsomely engrossed on vellum. The names are contained in twenty-six
massive volumes, each fourteen inches high by nine in breadth and three inches thick, inclosed
in an oak case. It is believed that this is the most numerously signed address in existence.
The value of the address, with so many names collected in haphazard fashion, was much questioned,
but its use was apparent in the height of the civil war, when Mrs. Stowe replied to it in one
of the most vigorous and noble appeals that ever came from her pen. This powerful reply made
a profound impression in England.

This is in brief the story of the book. It is still read, and read the world over, with tears
and with laughter; it is still played to excited audiences. Is it a great novel, or was it
only an event of an era of agitation and passion? Has it the real dramatic quality--the poet's
visualizing of human life--that makes works of fiction, of imagination, live? Till recently,
I had not read the book since 1852. I feared to renew acquaintance with it lest I should find
only the shell of an exploded cartridge. I took it up at the beginning of a three-hours' railway
journey. To my surprise the journey did not seem to last half an hour, and half the time I
could not keep back the tears from my eyes. A London critic, full of sympathy with Mrs. Stowe
and her work, recently said, "Yet she was not an artist, she was not a great woman." What is
greatness? What is art? In 1862 probably no one who knew General Grant would have called him
a great man. But he took Vicksburg. This woman did something with her pen,--on the whole, the
most remarkable and effective book in her generation. How did she do it? Without art? George
Sand said, "In matters of art there is but one rule, to paint and to move. And where shall
we find conditions more complete, types more vivid, situations more touching, more original,
than in Uncle Tom?" If there is not room in our art for such a book, I think we shall have
to stretch our art a little. "Women, too, are here judged and painted with a master hand."
This subtle critic, in her overpoweringly tender and enthusiastic review, had already inquired
about the capacity of this writer. It is admitted that Mrs. Stowe was not a woman of letters
in the common acceptation of that term, and it is plain that in the French tribunal, where
form is of the substance of the achievement, and which reluctantly overlooked the crudeness
of Walter Scott, in France where the best English novel seems a violation of established canons,
Uncle Tom would seem to belong where some modern critics place it, with works of the heart,
and not of the head. The reviewer is, however, candid: "For a long time we have striven in
France against the prolix explanations of Walter Scott. We have cried out against those of
Balzac, but on consideration have perceived that the painter of manners and character has never
done too much, that every stroke of the pencil was needed for the general effect. Let us learn
then to appreciate all kinds of treatment, where the effect is good, and where they bear the
seal of a master hand."

It must be admitted to the art critic that the book is defective according to the rules of
the modern French romance; that Mrs. Stowe was possessed by her subject, and let her fervid
interest in it be felt; that she had a definite purpose. That purpose was to quicken the sense
of responsibility of the North by showing the real character of slavery, and to touch the South
by showing that the inevitable wrong of it lay in the system rather than in those involved
in it. Abundant material was in her hands, and the author burned to make it serviceable. What
should she do? She might have done what she did afterwards in The Key, presented to the public
a mass of statistics, of legal documents. The evidence would have been unanswerable, but the
jury might not have been moved by it; they would have balanced it by considerations of political
and commercial expediency. I presume that Mrs. Stowe made no calculation of this kind. She
felt her course, and went on in it. What would an artist have done, animated by her purpose
and with her material? He would have done what Cervantes did, what Tourgenieff did, what Mrs.
Stowe did. He would have dramatized his facts in living personalities, in effective scenes,
in vivid pictures of life. Mrs. Stowe exhibited the system of slavery by a succession of dramatized
pictures, not always artistically welded together, but always effective as an exhibition of
the system. Cervantes also showed a fading feudal romantic condition by a series of amusing
and pathetic adventures, grouped rather loosely about a singularly fascinating figure.

Tourgenieff, a more consummate artist, in his hunting scenes exhibited the effect of serfdom
upon society, in a series of scenes with no necessary central figure, without comment, and
with absolute concealment of any motive. I believe the three writers followed their instincts,
without an analytic argument as to the method, as the great painter follows his when he puts
an idea upon canvas. He may invent a theory about it afterwards; if he does not, some one else
will invent it for him. There are degrees of art. One painter will put in unnecessary accessories,
another will exhibit his sympathy too openly, the technique or the composition of another can
be criticised. But the question is, is the picture great and effective?

Mrs. Stowe had not Tourgenieff's artistic calmness. Her mind was fused into a white heat with
her message. Yet, how did she begin her story? Like an artist, by a highly dramatized scene,
in which the actors, by a few strokes of the pen, appear as distinct and unmistakable personalities,
marked by individual peculiarities of manner, speech, motive, character, living persons in
natural attitudes. The reader becomes interested in a shrewd study of human nature, of a section
of life, with its various refinement, coarseness, fastidiousness and vulgarity, its humor and
pathos. As he goes on he discovers that every character has been perfectly visualized, accurately
limned from the first; that a type has been created which remains consistent, which is never
deflected from its integrity by any exigencies of plot. This clear conception of character
(not of earmarks and peculiarities adopted as labels), and faithful adhesion to it in all vicissitudes,
is one of the rarest and highest attributes of genius. All the chief characters in the book
follow this line of absolutely consistent development, from Uncle Tom and Legree down to the
most aggravating and contemptible of all, Marie St. Clare. The selfish and hysterical woman
has never been so faithfully depicted by any other author.

Distinguished as the novel is by its character-drawing and its pathos, I doubt if it would
have captivated the world without its humor. This is of the old-fashioned kind, the large humor
of Scott, and again of Cervantes, not verbal pleasantry, not the felicities of Lamb, but the
humor of character in action, of situations elaborated with great freedom, and with what may
be called a hilarious conception. This quality is never wanting in the book, either for the
reader's entertainment by the way, or to heighten the pathos of the narrative by contrast.
The introduction of Topsy into the New Orleans household saves us in the dangerous approach
to melodrama in the religious passages between Tom and St. Clare. Considering the opportunities
of the subject, the book has very little melodrama; one is apt to hear low music on the entrance
of little Eva, but we are convinced of the wholesome sanity of the sweet child. And it is to
be remarked that some of the most exciting episodes, such as that of Eliza crossing the Ohio
River on the floating ice (of which Mr. Ruskin did not approve), are based upon authentic occurrences.
The want of unity in construction of which the critics complain is partially explained by the
necessity of exhibiting the effect of slavery in its entirety. The parallel plots, one running
to Louisiana and the other to Canada, are tied together by this consideration, and not by any
real necessity to each other.

There is no doubt that Mrs. Stowe was wholly possessed by her theme, rapt away like a prophet
in a vision, and that, in her feeling at the time, it was written through her quite as much
as by her. This idea grew upon her mind in the retrospective light of the tremendous stir the
story made in the world, so that in her later years she came to regard herself as a providential
instrument, and frankly to declare that she did not write the book; "God wrote it." In her
own account, when she reached the death of Uncle Tom, "the whole vital force left her." The
inspiration there left her, and the end of the story, the weaving together of all the loose
ends of the plot, in the joining together almost by miracle the long separated, and the discovery
of the relationships, is the conscious invention of the novelist.

It would be perhaps going beyond the province of the critic to remark upon what the author
considered the central power of the story, and its power to move the world, the faith of Uncle
Tom in the Bible. This appeal to the emotion of millions of readers cannot, however, be overlooked.
Many regard the book as effective in regions remote from our perplexities by reason of this
grace. When the work was translated into Siamese, the perusal of it by one of the ladies of
the court induced her to liberate all her slaves, men, women, and children, one hundred and
thirty in all. "Hidden Perfume," for that was the English equivalent of her name, said she
was wishful to be good like Harriet Beecher Stowe. And as to the standpoint of Uncle Tom and
the Bible, nothing more significant can be cited than this passage from one of the latest writings
of Heinrich Heine:--

"The reawakening of my religious feelings I owe to that holy book the Bible. But a poor negro
slave reads with his back, and understands better than we do.

The one indispensable requisite of a great work of imaginative fiction is its universality,
its conception and construction so that it will appeal to universal human nature in all races
and situations and climates. Uncle Tom's Cabin does that. Considering certain artistic deficiencies,
which the French writers perceived, we might say that it was the timeliness of its theme that
gave it currency in England and America. But that argument falls before the world-wide interest
in it as a mere story, in so many languages, by races unaffected by our own relation to slavery.

It was the opinion of James Russell Lowell that the anti-slavery element in Uncle Tom and Dred
stood in the way of a full appreciation, at least in her own country, of the remarkable genius
of Mrs. Stowe. Writing in 1859, he said, "From my habits and the tendency of my studies I cannot
help looking at things purely from an aesthetic point of view, and what I valued in Uncle Tom
was the genius, and not the moral." This had been his impression when he read the book in Paris,
long after the whirl of excitement produced by its publication had subsided, and far removed
by distance from local influences.

A half-century is not much in the life of a people; it is in time an
inadequate test of the staying power of a book. Nothing is more futile
than prophecy on contemporary literary work. It is safe, however, to say
that Uncle Tom's Cabin has the fundamental qualities, the sure insight
into human nature, and the fidelity to the facts of its own time which
have from age to age preserved works of genius. These powers, of body and of mind, have in the past been
so wasted and dispersed as to lose all effectiveness, and to seem like
absence of all power, like weakness.
     The Lord has bought your liberty!"

Years have passed away, ten, twenty, thirty. Thirty years of national life, thirty years of
renewal and development, and yet the swarthy ghost of Banquo sits in its old place at the national
feast. In vain does the nation cry to its vastest problem,--

"Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves Shall never tremble!"

The freedman has not yet found in freedom his promised land. Mission and night schools began
in the smoke of battle, ran the gauntlet of reconstruction, and at last developed into permanent
foundations.

They still press on, they still nurse the dogged hope,--not a hope of nauseating patronage,
not a hope of reception into charmed social circles of stock-jobbers, pork-packers, and earl-hunters,
but the hope of a higher synthesis of civilization and humanity, a true progress, with which
the chorus

    "Peace, good will to men,"
    "May make one music as before,
     But vaster."

Thus the second decade of the American Negro's freedom was a period of conflict, of inspiration
and doubt, of faith and vain questionings, of Sturm and Drang. The ideals of physical freedom,
of political power, of school training, as separate all-sufficient panaceas for social ills,
became in the third decade dim and overcast. They were the vain dreams of credulous race childhood;
not wrong, but incomplete and over-simple. The power of the ballot we need in sheer self-defense,
and as a guarantee of good faith. We may misuse it, but we can scarce do worse in this respect
than our whilom masters.

THE WIFE OF HIS YOUTH by Charles W. Chesnutt

I.

Mr. Ryder was going to give a ball. There were several reasons why this was an opportune time
for such an event.

Mr. Ryder might aptly be called the dean of the Blue Veins. The original Blue Veins were a
little society of colored persons organized in a certain Northern city shortly after the war.
Its purpose was to establish and maintain correct social standards among a people whose social
condition presented almost unlimited room for improvement. By accident, combined perhaps with
some natural affinity, the society consisted of individuals who were, generally speaking, more
white than black. Some envious outsider made the suggestion that no one was eligible for membership
who was not white enough to show blue veins. The suggestion was readily adopted by those who
were not of the favored few, and since that time the society, though possessing a longer and
more pretentious name, had been known far and wide as the "Blue Vein Society," and its members
as the "Blue Veins."

The Blue Veins did not allow that any such requirement existed for admission to their circle,
but, on the contrary, declared that character and culture were the only things considered;
and that if most of their members were light-colored, it was because such persons, as a rule,
had had better opportunities to qualify themselves for membership. Opinions differed, too,
as to the usefulness of the society. There were those who had been known to assail it violently
as a glaring example of the very prejudice from which the colored race had suffered most; and
later, when such critics had succeeded in getting on the inside, they had been heard to maintain
with zeal and earnestness that the society was a life-boat, an anchor, a bulwark and a shield,
a pillar of cloud by day and of fire by night, to guide their people through the social wilderness.
Another alleged prerequisite for Blue Vein membership was that of free birth; and while there
was really no such requirement, it is doubtless true that very few of the members would have
been unable to meet it if there had been. If there were one or two of the older members who
had come up from the South and from slavery, their history presented enough romantic circumstances
to rob their servile origin of its grosser aspects. While there were no such tests of eligibility,
it is true that the Blue Veins had their notions on these subjects, and that not all of them
were equally liberal in regard to the things they collectively disclaimed. Mr. Ryder was one
of the most conservative. Though he had not been among the founders of the society, but had
come in some years later, his genius for social leadership was such that he had speedily become
its recognized adviser and head, the custodian of its standards, and the preserver of its traditions.
He shaped its social policy, was active in providing for its entertainment, and when the interest
fell off, as it sometimes did, he fanned the embers until they burst again into a cheerful
flame. There were still other reasons for his popularity. While he was not as white as some
of the Blue Veins, his appearance was such as to confer distinction upon them. His features
were of a refined type, his hair was almost straight; he was always neatly dressed; his manners
were irreproachable, and his morals above suspicion. He had come to Groveland a young man,
and obtaining employment in the office of a railroad company as messenger had in time worked
himself up to the position of stationery clerk, having charge of the distribution of the office
supplies for the whole company. Although the lack of early training had hindered the orderly
development of a naturally fine mind, it had not prevented him from doing a great deal of reading
or from forming decidedly literary tastes. Poetry was his passion. He could repeat whole pages
of the great English poets; and if his pronunciation was sometimes faulty, his eye, his voice,
his gestures, would respond to the changing sentiment with a precision that revealed a poetic
soul, and disarm criticism. He was economical, and had saved money; he owned and occupied a
very comfortable house on a respectable street. His residence was handsomely furnished, containing
among other things a good library, especially rich in poetry, a piano, and some choice engravings.
He generally shared his house with some young couple, who looked after his wants and were company
for him; for Mr. Ryder was a single man. In the early days of his connection with the Blue
Veins he had been regarded as quite a catch, and ladies and their mothers had manoeuvred with
much ingenuity to capture him. Not, however, until Mrs. Molly Dixon visited Groveland had any
woman ever made him wish to change his condition to that of a married man.

Mrs. Dixon had come to Groveland from Washington in the spring, and before the summer was over
she had won Mr. Ryder's heart. She possessed many attractive qualities. She was much younger
than he; in fact, he was old enough to have been her father, though no one knew exactly how
old he was. She was whiter than he, and better educated. She had moved in the best colored
society of the country, at Washington, and had taught in the schools of that city. Such a superior
person had been eagerly welcomed to the Blue Vein Society, and had taken a leading part in
its activities. Mr. Ryder had at first been attracted by her charms of person, for she was
very good looking and not over twenty-five; then by her refined manners and by the vivacity
of her wit. Her husband had been a government clerk, and at his death had left a considerable
life insurance. She was visiting friends in Groveland, and, finding the town and the people
to her liking, had prolonged her stay indefinitely. She had not seemed displeased at Mr. Ryder's
attentions, but on the contrary had given him every proper encouragement; indeed, a younger
and less cautious man would long since have spoken. But he had made up his mind, and had only
to determine the time when he would ask her to be his wife. He decided to give a ball in her
honor, and at some time during the evening of the ball to offer her his heart and hand. He
had no special fears about the outcotme, but, with a little touch of romance, he wanted the
surroundings to be in harmony with his own feelings when he should have received the answer
he expected.

Mr. Ryder resolved that this ball should mark an epoch in the social history of Groveland.
He knew, of course,--no one could know better,--the entertainments that had taken place in
past years, and what must be done to surpass them. His ball must be worthy of the lady in whose
honor it was to be given, and must, by the quality of its guests, set an example for the future.
He had observed of late a growing liberality, almost a laxity, in social matters, even among
members of his own set, and had several times been forced to meet in a social way persons whose
complexions and callings in life were hardly up to the standard which he considered proper
for the society to maintain. He had a theory of his own.

"I have no race prejudice," he would say, "but we people of mixed blood are ground between
the upper and the nether millstone. Our fate lies between absorption by the white race and
extinction in the black. The one doesn't want us yet, but may take us in time. The other would
welcome us, but it would be for us a backward step. 'With malice towards none, with charity
for all,' we must do the best we can for ourselves and those who are to follow us. Self-preservation
is the first law of nature."

His ball would serve by its exclusiveness to counteract leveling tendencies, and his marriage
with Mrs. Dixon would help to further the upward process of absorption he had been wishing
and waiting for.

II.

The ball was to take place on Friday night. The house had been put in order, the carpets covered
with canvas, the halls and stairs decorated with palms and potted plants; and in the afternoon
Mr. Ryder sat on his front porch, which the shade of a vine running up over a wire netting
made a cool and pleasant lounging-place. He expected to respond to the toast "The Ladies,"
at the supper, and from a volume of Tennyson--his favorite poet--was fortifying himself with
apt quotations. The volume was open at A Dream of Fair Women. His eyes fell on these lines,
and he read them aloud to judge better of their effect:--

"At length I saw a lady within call. Stiller than chisell'd marble, standing there; A daughter
of the gods, divinely tall, And most divinely fair."

He marked the verse, and turning the page read the stanza beginning,--

   "O sweet pale Margaret,
    O rare pale Margaret."

He weighed the passage a moment, and decided that it would not do. Mrs. Dixon was the palest
lady he expected at the ball, and she was of a rather ruddy complexion, and of lively disposition
and buxom build. So he ran over the leaves until his eye rested on the description of Queen
Guinevere:--

    "She seem'd a part of joyous Spring:
   A gown of grass-green silk she wore,
   Buckled with golden clasps before;
   A light-green tuft of plumes she bore
     Closed in a golden ring.

  . . . . . . . . . .

As Mr. Ryder murmured these words audibly, with an appreciative thrill, he heard the latch
of his gate click, and a light footfall sounding on the steps. He turned his head, and saw
a woman standing before the door.

She was a little woman, not five feet tall, and proportioned to her height. Although she stood
erect, and looked around her with very bright and restless eyes, she seemed quite old; for
her face was crossed and recrossed with a hundred wrinkles, and around the edges of her bonnet
could be seen protruding here and there a tuft of short gray wool. She wore a blue calico gown
of ancient cut, a little red shawl fastened around her shoulders with an old-fashioned brass
brooch, and a large bonnet profusely ornamented with faded red and yellow artificial flowers.
And she was very black--so black that her toothless gums, revealed when she opened her mouth
to speak, were not red, but blue. She looked like a bit of the old plantation life, summoned
up from the past by the wave of a magician's wand, as the poet's fancy had called into being
the gracious shapes of which Mr. Ryder had just been reading.

He rose from his chair and came over to where she stood.

"Good-afternoon, madam," he said.

"Good-evenin', suh," she answered, ducking suddenly with a quaint curtsy. Her voice was shrill
and piping, but softened somewhat by age. "Is dis yere whar Mistuh Ryduh lib, suh?" she asked,
looking around her doubtfully, and glancing into the open windows, through which some of the
preparations for the evening were visible.

"Yes," he replied, with an air of kindly patronage, unconsciously flattered by her manner,
"I am Mr. Ryder. Did you want to see me?"

"Yas, suh, ef I ain't 'sturbin' of you too much."

"Not at all. Have a seat over here behind the vine, where it is cool. What can I do for you?"

"'Scuse me, suh," she continued, when she had sat down on the edge of a chair, "'scuse me,
suh, I's lookin' for my husban'. I heerd you wuz a big man an' had libbed heah a long time,
an' I 'lowed you wouldn't min' ef I'd come roun' an' ax you ef you'd eber heerd of a merlatter
man by de name er Sam Taylor 'quirin' roun' in de chu'ches ermongs' de people fer his wife
'Liza Jane?"

Mr. Ryder seemed to think for a moment.

"There used to be many such cases right after the war," he said, "but it has been so long that
I have forgotten them. There are very few now. But tell me your story, and it may refresh my
memory."

She sat back farther in her chair so as to be more comfortable, and folded her withered hands
in her lap.

"My name's 'Liza," she began, "'Liza Jane. Wen I wuz young I us'ter b'long ter Marse Bob Smif,
down in old Missourn. I wuz bawn down dere. W'en I wuz a gal I wuz married ter a man named
Jim. But Jim died, an' after dat I married a merlatter man named Sam Taylor. Sam wuz free-bawn,
but his mammy and daddy died, an' de w'ite folks 'prenticed him ter my marster fer ter work
fer 'im 'tel he wuz growed up. Sam worked in de fiel', an' I wuz de cook. One day Ma'y Ann,
ole miss's maid, come rushin' out ter de kitchen, an' says she, ''Liza Jane, ole marse gwine
sell yo' Sam down de ribber.'

"'Go way f'm yere,' says I; 'my husban's free!'

"'Don' make no diff'ence. I heerd ole marse tell ole miss he wuz gwine take yo' Sam 'way wid
'im ter-morrow, fer he needed money, an' he knowed whar he could git a t'ousan' dollars fer
Sam an' no questions axed.'

"W'en Sam come home f'm de fiel', dat night, I tole him 'bout ole marse gwine steal 'im, an'
Sam run erway. His time wuz mos' up, an' he swo' dat w'en he wuz twenty-one he would come back
an' he'p me run erway, er else save up de money ter buy my freedom. An' I know he'd 'a' done
it, fer he thought a heap er me, Sam did. But w'en he come back he didn' fin' me, fer I wuzn'
dere. Ole marse had heerd dat I warned Sam, so he had me whip' an' sol' down de ribber.

"Den de wah broke out, an' w'en it wuz ober de cullud folks wuz scattered. I went back ter
de ole home; but Sam wuzn' dere, an' I couldn' l'arn nuffin' 'bout 'im. But I knowed he'd be'n
dere to look fer me an' hadn' foun' me, an' had gone erway ter hunt fer me.

"I's be'n lookin' fer 'im eber sence," she added simply, as though twenty-five years were but
a couple of weeks, "an' I knows he's be'n lookin' fer me. Fer he sot a heap er sto' by me,
Sam did, an' I know he's be'n huntin' fer me all dese years,--'less'n he's be'n sick er sump'n,
so he couldn' work, er out'n his head, so he couldn' 'member his promise. I went back down
de ribber, fer I 'lowed he'd gone down dere lookin' fer me. I's be'n ter Noo Orleens, an' Atlanty,
an' Charleston, an' Richmon'; an' w'en I'd be'n all ober de Souf I come ter de Norf. Fer I
knows I'll fin' 'im some er dese days," she added softly, "er he'll fin' me, an' den we'll
bofe be as happy in freedom as we wuz in de ole days befo' de wah." A smile stole over her
withered countenance as she paused a moment, and her bright eyes softened into a far-away look.

This was the substance of the old woman's story. She had wandered a little here and there.
Mr. Ryder was looking at her curiously when she finished.

"How have you lived all these years?" he asked.

"Cookin', suh. I's a good cook. Does you know anybody w'at needs a good cook, suh? I's stoppin'
wid a cullud fam'ly roun' de corner yonder 'tel I kin fin' a place."

"Do you really expect to find your husband? He may be dead long ago."

She shook her head emphatically. "Oh no, he ain' dead. De signs an' de tokens tells me. I dremp
three nights runnin' on'y dis las' week dat I foun' him."

"He may have married another woman. Your slave marriage would not have prevented him, for you
never lived with him after the war, and without that your marriage doesn't count."

"Wouldn' make no diff'ence wid Sam. He wouldn' marry no yuther 'ooman 'tel he foun' out 'bout
me. I knows it," she added. "Sump'n's be'n tellin' me all dese years dat I's gwine fin' Sam
'fo I dies."

"Perhaps he's outgrown you, and climbed up in the world where he wouldn't care to have you
find him."

"No, indeed, suh," she replied, "Sam ain' dat kin' er man. He wuz good ter me, Sam wuz, but
he wuzn' much good ter nobody e'se, fer he wuz one er de triflin'es' han's on de plantation.
I 'spec's ter haf ter suppo't 'im w'en I fin' 'im, fer he nebber would work 'less'n he had
ter. But den he wuz free, an' he didn' git no pay fer his work, an' I don' blame 'im much.
Mebbe he's done better sence he run erway, but I ain' 'spectin' much."

"You may have passed him on the street a hundred times during the twenty-five years, and not
have known him; time works great changes."

She smiled incredulously. "I'd know 'im 'mongs' a hund'ed men. Fer dey wuzn' no yuther merlatter
man like my man Sam, an' I couldn' be mistook. I's toted his picture roun' wid me twenty-five
years."

"May I see it?" asked Mr. Ryder. "It might help me to remember whether I have seen the original."

As she drew a small parcel from her bosom, he saw that it was fastened to a string that went
around her neck. Removing several wrappers, she brought to light an old-fashioned daguerreotype
in a black case. He looked long and intently at the portrait. It was faded with time, but the
features were still distinct, and it was easy to see what manner of man it had represented.

He closed the case, and with a slow movement handed it back to her.

"I don't know of any man in town who goes by that name," he said, "nor have I heard of any
one making such inquiries. But if you will leave me your address, I will give the matter some
attention, and if I find out anything I will let you know."

She gave him the number of a house in the neighborhood, and went away, after thanking him warmly.

He wrote down the address on the flyleaf of the volume of Tennyson, and, when she had gone,
rose to his feet and stood looking after her curiously. As she walked down the street with
mincing step, he saw several persons whom she passed turn and look back at her with a smile
of kindly amusement. When she had turned the corner, he went upstairs to his bedroom, and stood
for a long time before the mirror of his dressing-case, gazing thoughtfully at the reflection
of his own face.

III.

At eight o'clock the ballroom was a blaze of light and the guests had begun to assemble; for
there was a literary programme and some routine business of the society to be gone through
with before the dancing. A black servant in evening dress waited at the door and directed the
guests to the dressing-rooms.

The occasion was long memorable among the colored people of the city; not alone for the dress
and display, but for the high average of intelligence and culture that distinguished the gathering
as a whole. There were a number of school-teachers, several young doctors, three or four lawyers,
some professional singers, an editor, a lieutenant in the United States army spending his furlough
in the city, and others in various polite callings; these were colored, though most of them
would not have attracted even a casual glance because of any marked difference from white people.
Most of the ladies were in evening costume, and dress coats and dancing-pumps were the rule
among the men. A band of string music, stationed in an alcove behind a row of palms, played
popular airs while the guests were gathering.

The dancing began at half past nine. At eleven o'clock supper was served. Mr. Ryder had left
the ballroom some little time before the intermission, but reappeared at the supper-table.
The spread was worthy of the occasion, and the guests did full justice to it. When the coffee
had been served, the toastmaster, Mr. Solomon Sadler, rapped for order. He made a brief introductory
speech, complimenting host and guests, and then presented in their order the toasts of the
evening. They were responded to with a very fair display of after-dinner wit.

"The last toast," said the toast-master, when he reached the end of the list, "is one which
must appeal to us all. There is no one of us of the sterner sex who is not at some time dependent
upon woman,--in infancy for protection, in manhood for companionship, in old age for care and
comforting. Our good host has been trying to live alone, but the fair faces I see around me
to-night prove that he too is largely dependent upon the gentler sex for most that makes life
worth living,--the society and love of friends,--and rumor is at fault if he does not soon
yield entire subjection to one of them. Mr. Ryder will now respond to the toast,--The Ladies."

There was a pensive look in Mr. Ryder's eyes as he took the floor and adjusted his eyeglasses.
He began by speaking of woman as the gift of Heaven to man, and after some general observations
on the relations of the sexes he said: "But perhaps the quality which most distinguishes woman
is her fidelity and devotion to those she loves. History is full of examples, but has recorded
none more striking than one which only to-day came under my notice."

He then related, simply but effectively, the story told by his visitor of the afternoon. He
told it in the same soft dialect, which came readily to his lips, while the company listened
attentively and sympathetically. For the story had awakened a responsive thrill in many hearts.
There were some present who had seen, and others who had heard their fathers and grandfathers
tell, the wrongs and sufferings of this past generation, and all of them still felt, in their
darker moments, the shadow hanging over them. Mr. Ryder went on:--

"Such devotion and such confidence are rare even among women. There are many who would have
searched a year, some who would have waited five years, a few who might have hoped ten years;
but for twenty-five years this woman has retained her affection for and her faith in a man
she has not seen or heard of in all that time.

"She came to me to-day in the hope that I might be able to help her find this long-lost husband.
And when she was gone I gave my fancy rein, and imagined a case I will put to you.

"Suppose that this husband, soon after his escape, had learned that his wife had been sold
away, and that such inquiries as he could make brought no information of her whereabouts. Suppose
that he was young, and she much older than he; that he was light, and she was black; that their
marriage was a slave marriage, and legally binding only if they chose to make it so after the
war. Suppose, too, that he made his way to the North, as some of us have done, and there, where
he had larger opportunities, had improved them, and had in the course of all these years grown
to be as different from the ignorant boy who ran away from fear of slavery as the day is from
the night. Suppose, even, that he had qualified himself, by industry, by thrift, and by study,
to win the friendship and be considered worthy the society of such people as these I see around
me to-night, gracing my board and filling my heart with gladness; for I am old enough to remember
the day when such a gathering would not have been possible in this land. Suppose, too, that,
as the years went by, this man's memory of the past grew more and more indistinct, until at
last it was rarely, except in his dreams, that any image of this bygone period rose before
his mind. And then suppose that accident should bring to his knowledge the fact that the wife
of his youth, the wife he had left behind him,--not one who had walked by his side and kept
pace with him in his upward struggle, but one upon whom advancing years and a laborious life
had set their mark,--was alive and seeking him, but that he was absolutely safe from recognition
or discovery, unless he chose to reveal himself. My friends, what would the man do? I will
suppose that he was one who loved honor, and tried to deal justly with all men. I will even
carry the case further, and suppose that perhaps he had set his heart upon another, whom he
had hoped to call his own. What would he do, or rather what ought he to do, in such a crisis
of a lifetime?

"It seemed to me that he might hesitate, and I imagined that I was an old friend, a near friend,
and that he had come to me for advice; and I argued the case with him. I tried to discuss it
impartially.

There was something in Mr. Ryder's voice that stirred the hearts of those who sat around him.
It suggested more than mere sympathy with an imaginary situation; it seemed rather in the nature
of a personal appeal. It was observed, too, that his look rested more especially upon Mrs.
Dixon, with a mingled expression of renunciation and inquiry.

She had listened, with parted lips and streaming eyes. She was the first to speak: "He should
have acknowledged her."

"Yes," they all echoed, "he should have acknowledged her."

"My friends and companions," responded Mr. Ryder, "I thank you, one and all. It is the answer
I expected, for I knew your hearts."

He turned and walked toward the closed door of an adjoining room, while every eye followed
him in wondering curiosity. He came back in a moment, leading by the hand his visitor of the
afternoon, who stood startled and trembling at the sudden plunge into this scene of brilliant
gayety. She was neatly dressed in gray, and wore the white cap of an elderly woman.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he said, "this is the woman, and I am the man, whose story I have told
you. Permit me to introduce to you the wife of my youth."

THE BOUQUET by Charles W. Chesnutt

Mary Myrover's friends were somewhat surprised when she began to teach a colored school. Miss
Myrover's friends are mentioned here, because nowhere more than in a Southern town is public
opinion a force which cannot be lightly contravened. Public opinion, however, did not oppose
Miss Myrover's teaching colored children; in fact, all the colored public schools in town--and
there were several--were taught by white teachers, and had been so taught since the state had
undertaken to provide free public instruction for all children within its boundaries. Previous
to that time there had been a Freedman's Bureau school and a Presbyterian missionary school,
but these had been withdrawn when the need for them became less pressing. The colored people
of the town had been for some time agitating their right to teach their own schools, but as
yet the claim had not been conceded.

The reason Miss Myrover's course created some surprise was not, therefore, the fact that a
Southern white woman should teach a colored school; it lay in the fact that up to this time
no woman of just her quality had taken up such work. Most of the teachers of colored schools
were not of those who had constituted the aristocracy of the old regime; they might be said
rather to represent the new order of things, in which labor was in time to become honorable,
and men were, after a somewhat longer time, to depend, for their place in society, upon themselves
rather than upon their ancestors. But Mary Myrover belonged to one of the proudest of the old
families. Her ancestors had been people of distinction in Virginia before a collateral branch
of the main stock had settled in North Carolina. Before the war they had been able to live
up to their pedigree. But the war brought sad changes. Miss Myrover's father--the Colonel Myrover
who led a gallant but desperate charge at Vicksburg--had fallen on the battlefield, and his
tomb in the white cemetery was a shrine for the family. On the Confederate Memorial Day no
other grave was so profusely decorated with flowers, and in the oration pronounced the name
of Colonel Myrover was always used to illustrate the highest type of patriotic devotion and
self-sacrifice. Miss Myrover's brother, too, had fallen in the conflict; but his bones lay
in some unknown trench, with those of a thousand others who had fallen on the same field. Ay,
more, her lover, who had hoped to come home in the full tide of victory and claim his bride
as a reward for gallantry, had shared the fate of her father and brother. When the war was
over, the remnant of the family found itself involved in the common ruin,--more deeply involved,
indeed, than some others; for Colonel Myrover had believed in the ultimate triumph of his cause,
and had invested most of his wealth in Confederate bonds, which were now only so much waste paper.

There had been a little left. Mrs. Myrover was thrifty, and had laid by a few hundred dollars,
which she kept in the house to meet unforeseen contingencies. There remained, too, their home,
with an ample garden and a well-stocked orchard, besides a considerable tract of country land,
partly cleared, but productive of very little revenue.

With their shrunken resources, Miss Myrover and her mother were able to hold up their heads
without embarrassment for some years after the close of the war. But when things were adjusted
to the changed conditions, and the stream of life began to flow more vigorously in the new
channels, they saw themselves in danger of dropping behind, unless in some way they could add
to their meagre income. Miss Myrover looked over the field of employment, never very wide for
women in the South, and found it occupied. The only available position she could be supposed
prepared to fill, and which she could take without distinct loss of caste, was that of a teacher,
and there was no vacancy except in one of the colored schools. Even teaching was a doubtful
experiment; it was not what she would have preferred, but it was the best that could be done.

"I don't like it, Mary," said her mother. "It's a long step from owning such people to teaching
them. What do they need with education? It will only make them unfit for work."

"They're free now, mother, and perhaps they'll work better if they're taught something. Besides,
it's only a business arrangement, and doesn't involve any closer contact than we have with
our servants."

"Well, I should say not!" sniffed the old lady. "Not one of them will ever dare to presume
on your position to take any liberties with us. I'll see to that."

Miss Myrover began her work as a teacher in the autumn, at the opening of the school year.
It was a novel experience at first. Though there always had been negro servants in the house,
and though on the streets colored people were more numerous than her own people, and though
she was so familiar with their dialect that she might almost be said to speak it, barring certain
characteristic grammatical inaccuracies, she had never been brought in personal contact with
so many of them at once as when she confronted the fifty or sixty faces--of colors ranging
from a white almost as clear as her own to the darkest livery of the sun--which were gathered
in the schoolroom on the morning when she began her duties. Some of the inherited prejudice
of her caste, too, made itself felt, though she tried to repress any outward sign of it; and
she could perceive that the children were not altogether responsive; they, likewise, were not
entirely free from antagonism. The work was unfamiliar to her. She was not physically very
strong, and at the close of the first day she went home with a splitting headache. If she could
have resigned then and there without causing comment or annoyance to others, she would have
felt it a privilege to do so. But a night's rest banished her headache and improved her spirits,
and the next morning she went to her work with renewed vigor, fortified by the experience of
the first day.

Miss Myrover's second day was more satisfactory. She had some natural talent for organization,
though she had never known it, and in the course of the day she got her classes formed and
lessons under way. In a week or two she began to classify her pupils in her own mind, as bright
or stupid, mischievous or well behaved, lazy or industrious, as the case might be, and to regulate
her discipline accordingly. That she had come of a long line of ancestors who had exercised
authority and mastership was perhaps not without its effect upon her character, and enabled
her more readily to maintain good order in the school. When she was fairly broken in she found
the work rather to her liking, and derived much pleasure from such success as she achieved
as a teacher.

It was natural that she should be more attracted to some of her pupils than to others. Perhaps
her favorite--or rather, the one she liked best, for she was too fair and just for conscious
favoritism--was Sophy Tucker. Just the ground for the teacher's liking for Sophy might not
at first be apparent. The girl was far from the whitest of Miss Myrover's pupils; in fact,
she was one of the darker ones. She was not the brightest in intellect, though she always tried
to learn her lessons. She was not the best dressed, for her mother was a poor widow, who went
out washing and scrubbing for a living. Perhaps the real tie between them was Sophy's intense
devotion to the teacher. It had manifested itself almost from the first day of the school,
in the rapt look of admiration Miss Myrover always saw on the little black face turned toward
her. In it there was nothing of envy, nothing of regret; nothing but worship for the beautiful
white lady--she was not especially handsome, but to Sophy her beauty was almost divine--who
had come to teach her. If Miss Myrover dropped a book, Sophy was the first to spring and pick
it up; if she wished a chair moved, Sophy seemed to anticipate her wish; and so of all the
numberless little services that can be rendered in a school-room.

Miss Myrover was fond of flowers, and liked to have them about her. The children soon learned
of this taste of hers, and kept the vases on her desk filled with blossoms during their season.
Sophy was perhaps the most active in providing them. If she could not get garden flowers, she
would make excursions to the woods in the early morning, and bring in great dew-laden bunches
of bay, or jasmine, or some other fragrant forest flower which she knew the teacher loved.

"When I die, Sophy," Miss Myrover said to the child one day, "I want to be covered with roses.
And when they bury me, I'm sure I shall rest better if my grave is banked with flowers, and
roses are planted at my head and at my feet."

Miss Myrover was at first amused at Sophy's devotion; but when she grew more accustomed to
it, she found it rather to her liking. It had a sort of flavor of the old regime, and she felt,
when she bestowed her kindly notice upon her little black attendant, some of the feudal condescension
of the mistress toward the slave. She was kind to Sophy, and permitted her to play the role
she had assumed, which caused sometimes a little jealousy among the other girls. Once she gave
Sophy a yellow ribbon which she took from her own hair. The child carried it home, and cherished
it as a priceless treasure, to be worn only on the greatest occasions.

Sophy had a rival in her attachment to the teacher, but the rivalry was altogether friendly.
Miss Myrover had a little dog, a white spaniel, answering to the name of Prince. Prince was
a dog of high degree, and would have very little to do with the children of the school; he
made an exception, however, in the case of Sophy, whose devotion for his mistress he seemed
to comprehend. He was a clever dog, and could fetch and carry, sit up on his haunches, extend
his paw to shake hands, and possessed several other canine accomplishments. He was very fond
of his mistress, and always, unless shut up at home, accompanied her to school, where he spent
most of his time lying under the teacher's desk, or, in cold weather, by the stove, except
when he would go out now and then and chase an imaginary rabbit round the yard, presumably
for exercise.

At school Sophy and Prince vied with each other in their attentions to Miss Myrover. But when
school was over, Prince went away with her, and Sophy stayed behind; for Miss Myrover was white
and Sophy was black, which they both understood perfectly well. Miss Myrover taught the colored
children, but she could not be seen with them in public. If they occasionally met her on the
street, they did not expect her to speak to them, unless she happened to be alone and no other
white person was in sight. If any of the children felt slighted, she was not aware of it, for
she intended no slight; she had not been brought up to speak to negroes on the street, and
she could not act differently from other people. And though she was a woman of sentiment and
capable of deep feeling, her training had been such that she hardly expected to find in those
of darker hue than herself the same susceptibility--varying in degree, perhaps, but yet the
same in kind--that gave to her own life the alternations of feeling that made it most worth living.

Once Miss Myrover wished to carry home a parcel of books. She had the bundle in her hand when
Sophy came up.

"Lemme tote yo' bundle fer yer, Miss Ma'y?" she asked eagerly. "I'm gwine yo' way."

"Thank you, Sophy," was the reply. "I'll be glad if you will."

Sophy followed the teacher at a respectful distance. When they reached Miss Myrover's home
Sophy carried the bundle to the doorstep, where Miss Myrover took it and thanked her.

Mrs. Myrover came out on the piazza as Sophy was moving away. She said, in the child's hearing,
and perhaps with the intention that she should hear: "Mary, I wish you wouldn't let those little
darkies follow you to the house. I don't want them in the yard. I should think you'd have enough
of them all day."

"Very well, mother," replied her daughter. "I won't bring any more of them. The child was only
doing me a favor."

Mrs. Myrover was an invalid, and opposition or irritation of any kind brought on nervous paroxysms
that made her miserable, and made life a burden to the rest of the household; so that Mary
seldom crossed her whims. She did not bring Sophy to the house again, nor did Sophy again offer
her services as porter.

One day in spring Sophy brought her teacher a bouquet of yellow roses.

"Dey come off'n my own bush, Miss Ma'y," she said proudly, "an' I didn' let nobody e'se pull
'em, but saved 'em all fer you, 'cause I know you likes roses so much. I'm gwine bring 'em
all ter you as long as dey las'."

"Thank you, Sophy," said the teacher; "you are a very good girl."

For another year Mary Myrover taught the colored school, and did excellent service. The children
made rapid progress under her tuition, and learned to love her well; for they saw and appreciated,
as well as children could, her fidelity to a trust that she might have slighted, as some others
did, without much fear of criticism. Toward the end of her second year she sickened, and after
a brief illness died.

Old Mrs. Myrover was inconsolable. She ascribed her daughter's death to her labors as teacher
of negro children. Just how the color of the pupils had produced the fatal effects she did
not stop to explain. But she was too old, and had suffered too deeply from the war, in body
and mind and estate, ever to reconcile herself to the changed order of things following the
return of peace; and with an unsound yet not unnatural logic, she visited some of her displeasure
upon those who had profited most, though passively, by her losses.

"I always feared something would happen to Mary," she said. "It seemed unnatural for her to
be wearing herself out teaching little negroes who ought to have been working for her. But
the world has hardly been a fit place to live in since the war, and when I follow her, as I
must before long, I shall not be sorry to go."

She gave strict orders that no colored people should be admitted to the house. Some of her
friends heard of this, and remonstrated. They knew the teacher was loved by the pupils, and
felt that sincere respect from the humble would be a worthy tribute to the proudest. But Mrs.
Myrover was obdurate.

"They had my daughter when she was alive," she said, "and they've killed her. But she's mine
now, and I won't have them come near her. I don't want one of them at the funeral or anywhere
around."

For a month before Miss Myrover's death Sophy had been watching her rosebush--the one that
bore the yellow roses--for the first buds of spring, and when these appeared had awaited impatiently
their gradual unfolding. But not until her teacher's death had they become full-blown roses.
When Miss Myrover died, Sophy determined to pluck the roses and lay them on her coffin. Perhaps,
she thought, they might even put them in her hand or on her breast. For Sophy remembered Miss
Myrover's thanks and praise when she had brought her the yellow roses the spring before.

On the morning of the day set for the funeral Sophy washed her face until it shone, combed
and brushed her hair with painful conscientiousness, put on her best frock, plucked her yellow
roses, and, tying them with the treasured ribbon her teacher had given her, set out for Miss
Myrover's home.

She went round to the side gate--the house stood on a corner--and stole up the path to the
kitchen. A colored woman, whom she did not know, came to the door.

"W'at yer want, chile?" she inquired.

"Kin I see Miss Ma'y?" asked Sophy timidly.

"I don' know, honey. Ole Miss Myrover say she don' want no cullud folks roun' de house endyoin'
dis fun'al. I'll look an' see if she's roun' de front room, whar de co'pse is. You sed-down
heah an' keep still, an' ef she's upstairs maybe I kin git yer in dere a minute. Ef I can't,
I kin put yo' bokay 'mongs' de res', whar she won't know nuthin' erbout it."

A moment after she had gone there was a step in the hall, and old Mrs. Myrover came into the
kitchen.

"Dinah!" she said in a peevish tone. "Dinah!"

Receiving no answer, Mrs. Myrover peered around the kitchen, and caught sight of Sophy.

"What are you doing here?" she demanded.

"I--I'm-m waitin' ter see de cook, ma'am," stammered Sophy.

"The cook isn't here now. I don't know where she is. Besides, my daughter is to be buried to-day,
and I won't have any one visiting the servants until the funeral is over. Come back some other
day, or see the cook at her own home in the evening."

She stood waiting for the child to go, and under the keen glance of her eyes Sophy, feeling
as though she had been caught in some disgraceful act, hurried down the walk and out of the
gate, with her bouquet in her hand.

"Dinah," said Mrs. Myrover, when the cook came back, "I don't want any strange people admitted
here to-day. The house will be full of our friends, and we have no room for others."

"Yas'm," said the cook. She understood perfectly what her mistress meant; and what the cook
thought about her mistress was a matter of no consequence.

The funeral services were held at St. John's Episcopal Church, where the Myrovers had always
worshiped. Quite a number of Miss Myrover's pupils went to the church to attend the services.
The church was not a large one. There was a small gallery at the rear, to which colored people
were admitted, if they chose to come, at ordinary services; and those who wished to be present
at the funeral supposed that the usual custom would prevail. They were therefore surprised,
when they went to the side entrance, by which colored people gained access to the gallery stairs,
to be met by an usher who barred their passage.

"I'm sorry," he said, "but I have had orders to admit no one until the friends of the family
have all been seated. If you wish to wait until the white people have all gone in, and there's
any room left, you may be able to get into the back part of the gallery. Of course I can't
tell yet whether there'll be any room or not."

Now the statement of the usher was a very reasonable one; but, strange to say, none of the
colored people chose to remain except Sophy. She still hoped to use her floral offering for
its destined end, in some way, though she did not know just how. She waited in the yard until
the church was filled with white people, and a number who could not gain admittance were standing
about the doors. Then she went round to the side of the church, and, depositing her bouquet
carefully on an old mossy gravestone, climbed up on the projecting sill of a window near the
chancel. The window was of stained glass, of somewhat ancient make. The church was old, had
indeed been built in colonial times, and the stained glass had been brought from England. The
design of the window showed Jesus blessing little children. Time had dealt gently with the
window; but just at the feet of the figure of Jesus a small triangular piece of glass had been
broken out. To this aperture Sophy applied her eyes, and through it saw and heard what she
could of the services within.

Before the chancel, on trestles draped in black, stood the sombre casket in which lay all that
was mortal of her dear teacher. The top of the casket was covered with flowers; and lying stretched
out underneath it she saw Miss Myrover's little white dog, Prince. He had followed the body
to the church, and, slipping in unnoticed among the mourners, had taken his place, from which
no one had the heart to remove him.

The white-robed rector read the solemn service for the dead, and then delivered a brief address,
in which he spoke of the uncertainty of life, and, to the believer, the certain blessedness
of eternity. He spoke of Miss Myrover's kindly spirit, and, as an illustration of her love
and self-sacrifice for others, referred to her labors as a teacher of the poor ignorant negroes
who had been placed in their midst by an all-wise Providence, and whom it was their duty to
guide and direct in the station in which God had put them. Then the organ pealed, a prayer
was said, and the long cortege moved from the church to the cemetery, about half a mile away,
where the body was to be interred.

When the services were over, Sophy sprang down from her perch, and, taking her flowers, followed
the procession. She did not walk with the rest, but at a proper and respectful distance from
the last mourner. No one noticed the little black girl with the bunch of yellow flowers, or
thought of her as interested in the funeral.

The cortege reached the cemetery and filed slowly through the gate; but Sophy stood outside,
looking at a small sign in white letters on a black background:--

"NOTICE. This cemetery is for white people only. Others please keep out."

Sophy, thanks to Miss Myrover's painstaking instruction, could read this sign very distinctly.
In fact, she had often read it before. For Sophy was a child who loved beauty, in a blind,
groping sort of way, and had sometimes stood by the fence of the cemetery and looked through
at the green mounds and shaded walks and blooming flowers within, and wished that she could
walk among them. She knew, too, that the little sign on the gate, though so courteously worded,
was no mere formality; for she had heard how a colored man, who had wandered into the cemetery
on a hot night and fallen asleep on the flat top of a tomb, had been arrested as a vagrant
and fined five dollars, which he had worked out on the streets, with a ball-and-chain attachment,
at twenty-five cents a day. Since that time the cemetery gate had been locked at night.

So Sophy stayed outside, and looked through the fence. Her poor bouquet had begun to droop
by this time, and the yellow ribbon had lost some of its freshness. Sophy could see the rector
standing by the grave, the mourners gathered round; she could faintly distinguish the solemn
words with which ashes were committed to ashes, and dust to dust. She heard the hollow thud
of the earth falling on the coffin; and she leaned against the iron fence, sobbing softly,
until the grave was filled and rounded off, and the wreaths and other floral pieces were disposed
upon it. When the mourners began to move toward the gate, Sophy walked slowly down the street,
in a direction opposite to that taken by most of the people who came out.

When they had all gone away, and the sexton had come out and locked the gate behind him, Sophy
crept back. Her roses were faded now, and from some of them the petals had fallen. She stood
there irresolute, loath to leave with her heart's desire unsatisfied, when, as her eyes fell
upon the teacher's last resting place, she saw lying beside the new-made grave what looked
like a small bundle of white wool. Sophy's eyes lighted up with a sudden glow.

"Prince! Here, Prince!" she called.

The little dog rose, and trotted down to the gate. Sophy pushed the poor bouquet between the
iron bars. "Take that ter Miss Ma'y, Prince," she said, "that's a good doggie."

The dog wagged his tail intelligently, took the bouquet carefully in his mouth, carried it
to his mistress's grave, and laid it among the other flowers. The bunch of roses was so small
that from where she stood Sophy could see only a dash of yellow against the white background
of the mass of flowers.

When Prince had performed his mission he turned his eyes toward Sophy inquiringly, and when
she gave him a nod of approval lay down and resumed his watch by the graveside. Sophy looked
at him a moment with a feeling very much like envy, and then turned and moved slowly away.

First. We must not fall into the temptation of believing that we can raise ourselves by abusing
some one else.

Second.

Fifth. That perfection has not been reached in one generation, with the obstacles that the
parents have been compelled to overcome, is not to be wondered at.

Sixth. We have a conspicuous example of this in the case of the Jews, who in the South, as
well as in other parts of our country, have not always been justly treated; but the Jews have
so woven themselves into the business and patriotic interests of the communities in which they
live, have made themselves so valuable as citizens, that they have won a place in the South
which they could have obtained in no other way. Let me emphasize this by a practical example.
And does the Southern white man want him to improve it? The latter part of this question I
shall attempt to answer later in this article. While the Negro is laying this foundation, he
will need help and sympathy and justice from the law. Taking the whole South, I should say
that eighty per cent of the Negroes live by agriculture in some form, though it is often a
very primitive and crude form. It is better to show a man how to make a place for himself than
to put him in one that some one else has made for him. Will he seize upon it?

But I may be asked, Would you confine the Negro to agriculture, mechanics, the domestic arts,
etc.? Not at all; but just now and for a number of years the stress should be laid along the
lines that I have mentioned.

I was walking the street of a certain town in the South lately in company with the most prominent
Negro there.

"But w'at Hannibal got fum de oberseah didn' 'pear ter do no good. But I's glad ter heah you
en Jeff is gittin' 'long so well.

THE CAPTURE OF A SLAVER by J. Taylor Wood

From 1830 to 1850 both Great Britain and the United States, by joint convention, kept on the
coast of Africa at least eighty guns afloat for the suppression of the slave trade. Most of
the vessels so employed were small corvettes, brigs, or schooners; steam at that time was just
being introduced into the navies of the world.

Nearly fifty years ago I was midshipman on the United States brig Porpoise, of ten guns. Some
of my readers may remember these little ten-gun coffins, as many of them proved to be to their
crews. The Porpoise was a fair sample of the type; a full-rigged brig of one hundred and thirty
tons, heavily sparred, deep waisted, and carrying a battery of eight twenty-four-pound carronades
and two long chasers; so wet that even in a moderate breeze or sea it was necessary to batten
down; and so tender that she required careful watching; only five feet between decks, her quarters
were necessarily cramped and uncomfortable, and, as far as possible, we lived on deck. With
a crew of eighty all told, Lieutenant Thompson was in command, Lieutenant Bukett executive
officer, and two midshipmen were the line officers. She was so slow that we could hardly hope
for a prize except by a fluke. Repeatedly we had chased suspicious craft only to be out-sailed.

At this time the traffic in slaves was very brisk; the demand in the Brazils, in Cuba, and
in other Spanish West Indies was urgent, and the profit of the business so great that two or
three successful ventures would enrich any one. The slavers were generally small, handy craft;
fast, of course; usually schooner-rigged, and carrying flying topsails and forecourse. Many
were built in England or elsewhere purposely for the business, without, of course, the knowledge
of the builders, ostensibly as yachts or traders. The Spaniards and Portuguese were the principal
offenders, with occasionally an English-speaking renegade.

The slave depots, or barracoons, were generally located some miles up a river. Here the slaver
was secure from capture and could embark his live cargo at his leisure. Keeping a sharp lookout
on the coast, the dealers were able to follow the movements of the cruisers, and by means of
smoke, or in other ways, signal when the coast was clear for the coming down the river and
sailing of the loaded craft. Before taking in the cargoes they were always fortified with all
the necessary papers and documents to show they were engaged in legitimate commerce, so it
was only when caught in flagrante delicto that we could hold them.

We had been cruising off the coast of Liberia doing nothing, when we were ordered to the Gulf
of Guinea to watch the Bonny and Cameroons mouths of the great Niger River. Our consort was
H.M. schooner Bright, a beautiful craft about our tonnage, but with half our crew, and able
to sail three miles to our two. She was an old slaver, captured and adapted as a cruiser. She
had been very successful, making several important captures of full cargoes, and twice or thrice
her commanding officer and others had been promoted. Working our way slowly down the coast
in company with the Bright, we would occasionally send a boat on shore to reconnoitre or gather
any information we could from the natives through our Krooman interpreter. A few glasses of
rum or a string of beads would loosen the tongue of almost any one. At Little Bonny we heard
that two vessels were some miles up the river, ready to sail, and were only waiting until the
coast was clear. Captain James, of the Bright, thought that one, if not both, would sail from
another outlet of the river, about thirty miles to the southward, and determined to watch it.

We both stood to that direction. Of course we were watched from the shore, and the slavers
were kept posted as to our movements. They supposed we had both gone to the Cameroons, leaving
Little Bonny open; but after dark, with a light land breeze, we wore round and stood to the
northward, keeping offshore some distance, so that captains leaving the river might have sufficient
offing to prevent their reaching port again or beaching their craft. At daybreak, as far as
we could judge, we were about twenty miles offshore to the northward and westward of Little
Bonny, in the track of any vessel bound for the West Indies. The night was dark with occasional
rain squalls, when the heavens would open and the water come down in a flood. Anxiously we
all watched for daylight, which comes under the equator with a suddenness very different from
the prolonged twilight of higher latitudes. At the first glimmer in the east every eye was
strained on the horizon, all eager, all anxious to be the first to sight anything within our
vision. The darkness soon gave way to gray morn. Day was dawning, when suddenly a Krooman by
my side seized my hand and, without saying a word, pointed inshore. I looked, but could see
nothing. All eyes were focused in that direction, and in a few minutes the faint outline of
a vessel appeared against the sky. She was some miles inshore of us, and as the day brightened
we made her out to be a brigantine (an uncommon rig in those days), standing across our bows,
with all studding sails set on the starboard side, indeed everything that could pull, including
water sails and save-all. We were on the same tack heading to the northward. We set everything
that would draw, and kept off two points, bringing the wind abeam so as to head her off.

The breeze was light and off the land. We had not yet been seen against the darker western
horizon, but we knew it could only be a few minutes longer before their sharp eyes would make
us out. Soon we saw the studding sails and all kites come down by the run and her yards braced
up sharp on the same tack as ours. We also hauled by the wind. At sunrise she was four points
on our weather bow, distant about four miles. We soon perceived that she could outsail our
brig and if the wind held would escape. Gradually she drew away from us until she was hull
down. Our only hope now was that the land breeze would cease and the sea breeze come in. As
the sun rose we gladly noticed the wind lessening, until at eleven o'clock it was calm. Not
a breath ruffled the surface of the sea; the sun's rays in the zenith were reflected as from
a mirror; the waters seemed like molten lead.

I know of nothing more depressing than a calm in the tropics,--a raging sun overhead, around
an endless expanse of dead sea, and a feeling of utter helplessness that is overpowering. What
if this should last? what a fate! The Rime of the Ancient Mariner comes to our mind. Come storm
and tempest, come hurricanes and blizzards, anything but an endless stagnation. For some hours
we watched earnestly the horizon to the westward, looking for the first dark break on the smooth
sea. Not a cloud was in the heavens. The brig appeared to be leaving us either by towing or
by sweeps; only her topgallant sail was above the horizon. It looked as if the sea breeze would
desert us. It usually came in about one o'clock, but that hour and another had passed and yet
we watched for the first change. Without a breeze our chances of overhauling the stranger were
gone. Only a white speck like the wing of a gull now marked her whereabouts on the edge of
the horizon, and in another hour she would be invisible even from the masthead.

When we were about to despair, our head Krooman drew the captain's attention to the westward
and said the breeze was coming. We saw no signs of it, but his quick eye had noticed light
feathery clouds rising to the westward, a sure indication of the coming breeze. Soon we could
see the glassy surface ruffled at different points as the breeze danced over it, coming on
like an advancing line of skirmishers; and as we felt its first gentle movement on our parched
faces, it was welcome indeed, putting new life into all of us. The crew needed no encouragement
to spring to their work. As the little brig felt the breeze and gathered steerageway, she was
headed for the chase, bringing the wind on her starboard quarter. In less than five minutes
all the studding sails that would draw were set, as well as everything that would pull. The
best quartermaster was sent to the wheel, with orders to keep the chase directly over the weather
end of the spritsail yard. The captain ordered the sails wet, an expedient I never had much
faith in, unless the sails are very old. But as if to recompense us for the delay, the breeze
came in strong and steady. Our one hope now was to follow it up close, and to carry it within
gunshot of the brig, for if she caught it before we were within range she would certainly escape.
All hands were piped to quarters, and the long eighteen-pounder on the forecastle was loaded
with a full service charge; on this piece we relied to cripple the chase. We were now rapidly
raising her, and I was sent aloft on the fore topsail yard, with a good glass to watch her
movements. Her hull was in sight and she was still becalmed, though her head was pointed in
the right direction, and everything was set to catch the coming breeze. She carried a boat
on each side at the davits like a man-of-war, and I reported that I could make out men securing
them. They had been towing her, and only stopped when they saw us drawing near.

Anxiously we watched the breeze on the water as it narrowed the sheen between us, and we were
yet two miles or more distant when she first felt the breeze. As she did so we hoisted the
English blue ensign,--for the fleet at this time was under a Rear Admiral of the Blue,--and
fired a weather gun, but no response was made. Fortunately the wind continued to freshen and
the Porpoise was doing wonderfully well. We were rapidly closing the distance between us. We
fired another gun, but no attention was paid to it. I noticed from the movements of the crew
of the brig that they were getting ready for some manoeuvre, and reported to the captain. He
divined at once what the manoeuvre would be, and ordered the braces be led along, hands by
the studding-sail halyards and tacks, and everything ready to haul by the wind. We felt certain
now of the character of our friend, and the men were already calculating the amount of their
prize money. We were now within range, and must clip her wings if possible.

The first lieutenant was ordered to open fire with the eighteen-pounder. Carefully the gun
was laid, and as the order "fire" was given, down came our English flag, and the stop of the
Stars and Stripes was broken at the gaff. The first shot touched the water abeam of the chase
and ricochetted ahead of her. She showed the Spanish flag. The captain of the gun was ordered
to elevate a little more and try again. The second shot let daylight through her fore topsail,
but the third was wide again.

Then the sharp, quick order of the captain, "Fore topsail yard there, come down on deck, sir!"
brought me down on the run. "Have both cutters cleared away and ready for lowering," were my
orders as I reached the quarter-deck. Practice from the bow chasers continued, but the smoke
that drifted ahead of us interfered with the accuracy of the firing, and no vital part was
touched, though a number of shots went through her sails. The captain in the main rigging never
took his eye from the Spaniard, evidently expecting that as a fox when hard pressed doubles
on the hounds, the chase would attempt the same thing. And he was not disappointed, for when
we had come within easy range of her, the smoke hid her from view for a few minutes, and as
it dispersed the first glimpse showed the captain that her studding sails had all gone, and
that she had hauled by the wind, standing across our weather bow. Her captain had lost no time
in taking in his studding sails; halyards, tacks, and sheets had all been cut together and
dropped overboard.

It was a bold and well-executed manoeuvre, and we could not help admiring the skill with which
she was handled. However, we had been prepared for this move. "Ease down your helm." "Lower
away. Haul down the studding sails." "Ease away the weather braces. Brace up." "Trim down the
head sheets," were the orders which followed in rapid succession, and were as quickly executed.
The Spaniard was now broad on our lee bow, distant not more than half a mile, but as she felt
the wind which we brought down she fairly spun through the water, exposing her bright copper.
She was both head-reaching and outsailing us; in half an hour she would have been right ahead
of us, and in an hour the sun would be down. It was now or never. We could bring nothing to
bear except the gun on the forecastle. Fortunately it continued smooth, and we were no longer
troubled with smoke. Shot after shot went hissing through the air after her; a number tore
through the sails or rigging, but not a spar was touched nor an important rope cut. We could
see some of her crew aloft reeving and stopping braces and ready to repair any damage done,
working as coolly under fire as old man-of-war's men. But while we were looking, down came
the gaff of her mainsail, and the gaff-topsail fell all adrift; a lucky shot had cut her peak
halyards. Our crew cheered with a will. "Well done, Hobson; try it again!" called the captain
to the boatswain's mate, who was captain of the gun.

After the next shot, the topgallant yard swayed for a few minutes and fell forward. The order
was given to cease firing; she was at our mercy. We were rapidly nearing the chase, when she
backed her topsail. We kept off, and when within easy range of the carronades "hove to" to
windward. Lieutenant Bukett was ordered to board her in the first cutter and take charge. I
followed in the second cutter, with orders to bring the captain on board with his papers. A
few strokes sent us alongside of a brig about our tonnage, but with a low rail and a flush
deck. The crew, some eighteen or twenty fine-looking seamen, were forward eagerly discussing
the situation of affairs. The captain was aft with his two officers, talking to Lieutenant
Bukett. He was fair, with light hair curling all over his head, beard cut short, about forty
years of age, well set up, with a frame like a Roman wrestler, evidently a tough customer in
a rough-and-ready scrimmage.

He spoke fairly good English, and was violently denouncing the outrage done to his flag; his
government would demand instant satisfaction for firing upon a legitimate trader on the high
seas. I have the lieutenant Captain Thompson's orders, to bring the captain and his papers
on board at once. His harangue was cut short by orders to get on board my boat. He swore with
a terrible oath that he would never leave his vessel. "Come on board, men," said I, and twenty
of our crew were on deck in a jiffy. I stationed my coxswain, Parker, at the cabin companion
way with orders to allow no one to pass. "Now," said Lieutenant Bukett to the Spaniard, "I
will take you on board in irons unless you go quietly." He hesitated a moment, then said he
would come as soon as he had gone below to bring up his papers. "No, never mind your papers;
I will find them," said the lieutenant, for he saw the devil in the Spaniard's eyes, and knew
he meant mischief. Our captive made one bound for the companion way, however, and seizing Parker
by the throat hurled him into the water ways as if he had been a rag baby. But fortunately
he slipped on a small grating and fell on his knees, and before he could recover himself two
of our men threw themselves upon him.

I closed the companion way. The struggle was desperate for a few minutes, for the Spaniard
seemed possessed of the furies, and his efforts were almost superhuman. Twice he threw the
men from him across the deck, but they were reinforced by Parker, who, smarting under his discomfiture,
rushed in, determined to down him. I was anxious to end it with my pistol, but Lieutenant Bukett
would not consent. The Spaniard's officers and men made some demonstration to assist, but they
were quickly disposed of: his two mates were put in irons and the crew driven forward. Struggling,
fighting, every limb and every muscle at work, the captain was overpowered; a piece of the
signal halyards brought his hands together, and handcuffs were slipped on his wrists. Only
then he succumbed, and begged Lieutenant Bukett to blow out his brains, for he had been treated
like a pirate.

Without doubt if he had reached the cabin he would have blown up the vessel, for in a locker
over the transom were two open kegs of powder. I led him to my boat, assisted him in, and returned
to the Porpoise. As soon as the Spaniard reached the deck the captain ordered his irons removed,
and expressed his regret that it had been necessary to use force. The prisoner only bowed and
said nothing. The captain asked him what his cargo consisted of. He replied, "About four hundred
blacks bound to the Brazils."

I was then ordered to return to the brig, bring on board her crew, leaving only the cook and
steward, and to take charge of the prize as Lieutenant Bukett, our first lieutenant, was not
yet wholly recovered from an attack of African fever. The crew of twenty men, when brought
on board, consisted of Spaniards, Greeks, Malays, Arabs, white and black, but had not one Anglo-Saxon.
They were ironed in pairs and put under guard.

From the time we first got on board we had heard moans, cries, and rumblings coming from below,
and as soon as the captain and crew were removed, the hatches had been taken off, when there
arose a hot blast as from a charnel house, sickening and overpowering. In the hold were three
or four hundred human beings, gasping, struggling for breath, dying; their bodies, limbs, faces,
all expressing terrible suffering. In their agonizing fight for life, some had torn or wounded
themselves or their neighbors dreadfully; some were stiffened in the most unnatural positions.
As soon as I knew the condition of things I sent the boat back for the doctor and some whiskey.
It returned bringing Captain Thompson, and for an hour or more we were all hard at work lifting
and helping the poor creatures on deck, where they were laid out in rows. A little water and
stimulant revived most of them; some, however, were dead or too far gone to be resuscitated.
The doctor worked earnestly over each one, but seventeen were beyond human skill. As fast as
he pronounced them dead they were quickly dropped overboard.

Night closed in with our decks covered so thickly with the ebony bodies that with difficulty
we could move about; fortunately they were as quiet as so many snakes. In the meantime the
first officer, Mr. Block, was sending up a new topgallant yard, reeving new rigging, repairing
the sails, and getting everything ataunto aloft. The Kroomen were busy washing out and fumigating
the hold, getting ready for our cargo again. It would have been a very anxious night, except
that I felt relieved by the presence of the brig which kept within hail. Soon after daybreak
Captain Thompson came on board again, and we made a count of the captives as they were sent
below; 188 men and boys, and 166 women and girls. Seeing everything snug and in order the captain
returned to the brig, giving me final orders to proceed with all possible dispatch to Monrovia,
Liberia, land the negroes, then sail for Porto Praya, Cape de Verde Islands, and report to
the commodore. As the brig hauled to the wind and stood to the southward and eastward I dipped
my colors, when her crew jumped into the rigging and gave us three cheers, which we returned.

As she drew away from us I began to realize my position and responsibility: a young midshipman,
yet in my teens, commanding a prize, with three hundred and fifty prisoners on board, two or
three weeks' sail from port, with only a small crew. From the first I kept all hands aft except
two men on the lookout, and the weather was so warm that we could all sleep on deck. I also
ordered the men never to lay aside their pistols or cutlasses, except when working aloft, but
my chief reliance was in my knowledge of the negro,--of his patient, docile disposition. Born
and bred a slave he never thought of any other condition, and he accepted the situation without
a murmur. I had never heard of blacks rising or attempting to gain their freedom on board a slaver.

My charges were all of a deep black; from fifteen to twenty-five years of age, and, with a
few exceptions, nude, unless copper or brass rings on their ankles or necklaces of cowries
can be described as articles of dress. All were slashed, or had the scars of branding on their
foreheads and cheeks; these marks were the distinguishing features of different tribes or families.
The men's hair had been cut short, and their heads looked in some cases as if they had been
shaven. The women, on the contrary, wore their hair "a la pompadour;" the coarse kinky locks
were sometimes a foot or more above their heads, and trained square or round like a boxwood
bush. Their features were of the pronounced African type, but, notwithstanding this disfigurement,
were not unpleasing in appearance. The figures of all were very good, straight, well developed,
some of the young men having bodies that would have graced a Mercury or an Apollo. Their hands
were small, showing no evidences of work, only the cruel marks of shackles. These in some cases
had worn deep furrows on their wrists or ankles.

They were obedient to all orders as far as they understood them, and would, I believe, have
jumped overboard if told to do so. I forbade the men to treat them harshly or cruelly. I had
the sick separated from the others, and allowed them to remain on deck all the time, and in
this way I partly gained their confidence. I was anxious to learn their story. Fortunately
one of the Kroomen found among the prisoners a native of a tribe living near the coast, and
with him as interpreter was able to make himself understood. After a good deal of questioning
I learned that most of them were from a long distance in the interior, some having been one
and some two moons on the way, traveling partly by land and partly by river until they reached
the coast. They had been sold by their kings or by their parents to the Arab trader for firearms
or for rum. Once at the depots near the coast, they were sold by the Arabs or other traders
to the slave captains for from twenty-five to fifty dollars a head. In the Brazils or West
Indies they were worth from two to five hundred dollars. This wide margin, of course, attracted
unscrupulous and greedy adventurers, who if they succeeded in running a few cargoes would enrich
themselves.

Our daily routine was simple. At six in the morning the rope netting over the main hatch which
admitted light and air was taken off, and twenty-five of each sex were brought up, and seated
in two circles, one on each side of the deck. A large pan of boiled paddy was then placed in
the centre by the cook and all went to work with their hands. A few minutes sufficed to dispose
of every grain; then one of the Kroomen gave each of them a cup of water from a bucket. For
half an hour after the meal they had the liberty of the deck, except the poop, for exercise,
to wash and to sun themselves; for sunshine to a negro is meat and drink. At the end of this
time they were sent below and another fifty brought up, and so on until all had been fed and
watered. Paddy or rice was the staple article of food. At dinner boiled yams were given with
the rice. Our passengers were quartered on a flying deck extending from the foremast to a point
twenty feet abaft the main hatch from which came light and air. The height was about five feet;
the men had one side and the women the other. Of course there was no furnishing of any kind,
but all lay prone upon the bare deck in rows.

Every morning after breakfast the Kroomen would rig the force pump, screw on the hose and drench
them all, washing out thoroughly between decks. They appeared to enjoy this, and it was cooling,
for be it remembered we were close under the equator, the thermometer dancing about 90 deg.
As the water was sluiced over them they would rub and scrub each other. Only the girls would
try not to get their hair wet, for they were at all times particular about their headdress.
It may be that this was the only part of their toilet that gave them any concern.

The winds were baffling and light, so we made but slow progress. Fortunately frequent rains,
with sometimes a genuine tropical downpour or cloud-burst, gave us an opportunity of replenishing
our water casks, and by spreading the awnings we were able to get a good supply. I found on
inspection that there were at least thirty days' provisions on board, so on this score and
that of water I felt easy. I lived on deck, seldom using the cabin, which was a veritable arsenal,
with racks of muskets and cutlasses on two sides, many more than the captain needed to arm
his crew, evidently intended for barter. Two or three prints of his favorite saints, ornamented
with sharks' teeth, hung on one bulkhead. A well-thrummed mandolin and a number of French novels
proved him to be a musical and literary fellow, who could probably play a bolero while making
a troublesome slave walk a plank. I found also some choice vintages from the Douro and Bordeaux
snugly stowed in his spirit locker, which proved good medicines for some of our captives, who
required stimulants. Several of the girls were much reduced, refused nearly all food, and were
only kept alive by a little wine and water. Two finally died of mere inanition. Their death
did not in the least affect their fellows, who appeared perfectly indifferent and callous to
all their surroundings, showing not the least sympathy or desire to help or wait on one another.

The fifth day after parting from the brig we encountered a tropical storm. The sun rose red
and angry, and owing to the great refraction appeared three times its natural size. It climbed
lazily to the zenith, and at noon we were shadowless. The sky was as calm as a vault, and the
surface of the water was like burnished steel. The heat became so stifling that even the Africans
were gasping for breath, and we envied them their freedom from all impediments. The least exertion
was irksome, and attended with extreme lassitude. During the afternoon thin cirri clouds, flying
very high, spread out over the western heavens like a fan. As the day lengthened they thickened
to resemble the scales of a fish, bringing to mind the old saying, "A mackerel sky and a mare's
tail," etc. The signs were all unmistakable, and even the gulls recognized a change, and, screaming,
sought shelter on our spars. Mr. Block was ordered to send down all the light yards and sails;
to take in and furl everything, using storm gaskets, except on the fore and main storm staysails;
to lash everything on deck; to batten down the hatches, except one square of the main; see
all the shifting boards in place, so that our living cargo would not be thrown to leeward higgledy-piggledy,
and to take four or five of the worst cases of the sick into the cabin and lay them on the floor.

The sun disappeared behind a mountainous mass of leaden-colored clouds which rose rapidly in
the southern and western quarters. To the eastward, also, the signs were threatening. Night
came on suddenly as it does in the tropics. Soon the darkness enveloped us, a palpable veil.
A noise like the march of a mighty host was heard, which proved to be the approach of a tropical
flood, heralded by drops as large as marbles. It churned the still waters into a phosphorescent
foam which rendered the darkness only more oppressive. The rain came down as it can come only
in the Bight of Benin. The avalanche cooled us, reducing the temperature ten or fifteen degrees,
giving us new life, and relieving our fevered blood. I told Mr. Block to throw back the tarpaulin
over the main hatch and let our dusky friends get some benefit of it. In half an hour the rain
ceased, but it was as calm and ominous as ever.

I knew this was but the forerunner of something worse to follow, and we had not long to wait,
for suddenly a blinding flash of lightning darted through the gloom from east to west, followed
by one in the opposite direction. Without intermission, one blaze after another and thunder
crashing until our eyes were blinded and our ears deafened, a thousand times ten thousand pieces
of artillery thundered away. We seemed utterly helpless and insignificant. "How wonderful are
Thy works," came to my mind. Still no wind; the brig lay helpless.

Suddenly, as a slap in the face, the wind struck us,--on the starboard quarter, fortunately.
"Hard-a-starboard." "Hanl aft port fore staysail sheet," I called. But before she could gather
way she was thrown down by the wind like a reed. She was "coming to" instead of "going off,"
and I tried to get the main storm staysail down but could not make myself heard. She was lying
on her broadside. Luckily the water was smooth as yet. The main staysail shot out of the boltropes
with a report like a twelve-pounder, and this eased her so that if the fore staysail would
only hold she would go off. For a few minutes all we could do was to hold on, our lee rail
in the water; but the plucky little brig rallied a little, her head went off inch by inch,
and as she gathered way she righted, and catching the wind on our quarter we were off like
a shot out of a gun. I knew we were too near the vortex of the disturbance for the wind to
hang long in one quarter, so watched anxiously for a change. The sea rose rapidly while we
were running to the northward on her course, and after a lull of a few minutes the wind opened
from the eastward, butt end foremost, a change of eight points. Nothing was to be done but
heave to, and this in a cross sea where pitch, weather roll, lee lurch, followed one another
in such earnest that it was a wonder her masts were not switched out of her.

I passed an anxious night, most concerned about the poor creatures under hatches, whose sufferings
must have been terrible. To prevent their suffocating I kept two men at the main hatch with
orders to lift one corner of the tarpaulin whenever possible, even if some water did go below.
Toward morning the wind and the sea went down rapidly, and as the sun rose it chased the clouds
off, giving us the promise of a fine day. When the cook brought me a cup of coffee, I do not
know that I ever enjoyed anything more. Hatches off, I jumped down into the hold to look after
my prisoners. Battered and bruised they lay around in heaps. Only the shifting boards had kept
them from being beaten into an indistinguishable mass. As fast as possible they were sent on
deck, and the sun's rays, with a few buckets of water that were thrown over them, accomplished
wonders in bringing them to life and starting them to care for their sore limbs and bruises.

One boy, when I motioned for him to go on deck, pointed quietly to his leg, and upon examination
I found a fracture just above the knee. Swelling had already commenced. I had seen limbs set,
and had some rough idea how it should be done. So while getting some splints of keg staves
and bandages ready, I kept a stream of water pouring on the fracture, and then ordered two
men to pull the limb in place, and it took all their strength. That done I put on the splints
and wrapped the bandages tightly. Three weeks later I landed him in a fair way of recovery.

Gradually I allowed a larger number of the blacks to remain on deck, a privilege which they
greatly enjoyed. To lie basking in the sun like saurians, half sleeping, half waking, appeared
to satisfy all their wishes. They were perfectly docile and obedient, and not by word, gesture,
or look did they express any dissatisfaction with orders given them. But again for any little
acts of kindness they expressed no kind of appreciation or gratitude. Physically they were
men and women, but otherwise as far removed from the Anglo-Saxon as the oyster from the baboon,
or the mole from the horse.

On the fourteenth day from parting with the brig we made the palms on Cape Mesurado, the entrance
to Monrovia Harbor. A light sea breath wafted us to the anchorage, a mile from the town, and
when the anchor dropped from the bows and the chain ran through the hawse pipe, it was sweet
music to my ears; for the strain had been great, and I felt years older than when I parted
from my messmates. A great responsibility seemed lifted from my shoulders, and I enjoyed a
long and refreshing sleep for the first time in a fortnight. At nine the next morning I went
on shore and reported to the authorities, the officials of Liberia, of which Monrovia is the
capital.

This part of the African coast had been selected by the United States government as the home
of emancipated slaves; for prior to the abolition excitement which culminated in the war, numbers
of slaves in the South had been manumitted by their masters with the understanding that they
should be deported to Liberia, and the Colonization Society, an influential body, comprising
some of the leading men, like Madison, Webster, and Clay, had assisted in the same work. The
passages of the negroes were paid; each family was given a tract of land and sufficient means
to build a house. Several thousand had been sent out, most of whom had settled at Monrovia,
and a few at other places on the coast. They had made no impression on the natives. On the
contrary, many of them had intermarried with the natives, and the off-spring of these unions
had lost the use of the English tongue, and had even gone back to the life and customs of their
ancestors, sans clothing, sans habitations, and worship of a fetich.

Of course there were some notable exceptions, especially President Roberts, who proved himself
a safe and prudent ruler, taking into consideration his surroundings and the material with
which he had to work. The form of government was modeled after that of the United States, but
it was top-heavy. Honorables, colonels, and judges were thicker than in Georgia. Only privates
were scarce; for nothing delights a negro more than a little show or a gaudy uniform. On landing
I was met by a dark mulatto, dressed in a straw hat, blue tail coat, silver epaulettes, linen
trousers, with bare feet, and a heavy cavalry sabre hanging by his side. With him were three
or four others in the same rig, except the epaulettes. He introduced himself as Colonel Harrison,
chief of police. I asked to be directed to the custom house.

The collector proved to be an old negro from Raleigh, N. C., gray as a badger, spectacled,
with manners of Lord Grandison and language of Mrs. Malaprop. I reported my arrival, and asked
permission to land my cargo as soon as possible. He replied that in a matter of so much importance,
devolving questions of momentous interest, it would be obligatory on him to consult the Secretary
of the Treasury. I said I trusted he would so facilitate affairs that I might at an early hour
disembarrass myself of my involuntary prisoners. I returned on board, and the day passed without
any answer. The next morning I determined to go at once to headquarters and find out the cause
of the delay by calling on the President.

He received me without any formality. I made my case as strong as possible, and pressed for
an immediate answer. In reply he assured me he would consult with other members of his cabinet,
and give me a final answer the next morning. That evening I dined with him en famille, and
recognized some old Virginia dishes on the table. The next morning I waited impatiently for
his decision, having made up my mind however, if it was unfavorable, to land my poor captives,
be the consequences what they might.

About eleven o'clock a boat came off with an officer in full uniform, who introduced himself
as Colonel Royal, bearer of dispatches from his Excellency the President. He handed me a letter
couched in diplomatic language, as long as some of his brother presidents' messages on this
side of the Atlantic. I had hardly patience to read it. The gist of it was, I might not land
the captives at Monrovia, but might land them at Grand Bassa, about a hundred and fifty miles
to the eastward; that Colonel Royal would accompany me with orders to the governor there to
receive them. This was something I had not anticipated, and outside of my instructions. However,
I thought it best to comply with the wishes of the government of our only colony.

Getting under way we stood to the southward and eastward, taking advantage of the light land
and sea breeze, keeping the coast close aboard. The colonel had come on board without any impediments,
and I wondered if he intended to make the voyage in his cocked hat, epaulettes, sword, etc.
But soon after we had started he disappeared and emerged from the cabin bareheaded, barefooted,
and without clothing except a blue dungaree shirt and trousers. Like a provident negro, having
stowed away all his trappings, he appeared as a roustabout on a Western steamer. But he had
not laid aside with his toggery any of his important and consequential airs. He ran foul of
Mr. Block, who called him Mr. Cuffy, and ordered him to give him a pull with the main sheet.
The colonel complained to me that he was not addressed by his name or title, and that he was
not treated as a representative of his government should be. I reprimanded Mr. Block, and told
him to give the visitor all his title. "All right, sir, but the colonel must keep off the weather
side of the deck," growled the officer. The cook, the crew, and even the Kroomen, all took
their cue from the first officer, and the colonel's lot was made most unhappy.

On the third day we reached Grand Bassa, and anchored off the beach about two miles, along
which the surf was breaking so high that any attempt to land would be hazardous. Toward evening
it moderated, and a canoe with three naked natives came off. One I found could speak a little
English. I told him to say to the governor that I would come on shore in the morning and see
him, and land my cargo at the same time.

The next morning at sunrise we were boarded by a party of natives headed by one wearing a black
hat half covered with a tarnished silver band, an old navy frock coat, much too small, between
the buttons of which his well-oiled skin showed clearly. A pair of blue flannel trousers completed
his outfit. An interpreter introduced him as King George of Grand Bassa. With him were about
a dozen followers, each one wearing a different sort of garment--and seldom more than a single
one--representing old uniforms of many countries. Two coats I noticed were buttoned up the back.

The king began by saying that he was and always had been a friend of the Americans; that he
was a big man, had plenty of men and five wives, etc. While he was speaking, a white-bearded
old colored gentleman came over the gangway, dressed in a linen roundabout and trousers, with
a wide-brimmed straw hat. At the same time Colonel Royal came up from the cabin in grande tenue
and introduced us to the Hon. Mr. Marshall, governor of Bassa, formerly of Kentucky.

In a few minutes he explained the situation. With a few settlers he was located at this place,
on the frontier of the colony, and they were there on sufferance only from the natives. I told
him Colonel Royal would explain my mission to him and the king. The colonel, bowing low to
the king, the governor, and myself, and bringing his sword down with a thud on the deck, drew
from between the bursting buttons of his coat the formidable document I had seen at Monrovia,
and with most impressive voice and gesture commenced to read it. The king listened for a few
minutes, and then interrupted him. I asked the interpreter what he said. He replied, "King
say he fool nigger; if he comes on shore he give him to Voodoo women." Then turning his back
he walked forward. The colonel dropped his paper, and drawing his sword, in the most dramatic
manner claimed protection in the name of the government, declaring that he had been insulted.
I told him to keep cool, since he was certainly safe as long as he was on board my ship. He
grumbled and muttered terrible things, but subsided gradually like the departing thunder of
a summer storm.

I arranged the landing of the passengers with Governor Marshall, whom I found a sensible, clear-headed
old man, ready to cooperate in every way. But he suggested that I had better consult the king
before doing anything. I did so, and he at once said they could not land. I told the interpreter
to say they would be landed at once and put under the protection of the governor; that if the
king or his people hurt them or ran them off I would report it to our commodore, who would
certainly punish him severely. Finding me determined, he began to temporize, and asked that
the landing be put off until the next day, that he might consult with his head people, for
if I sent them on shore before he had done so they would kill them. "If that is the case,"
I replied, "I will hold you on board as a hostage for their good behavior." This threat surprised
him, and he changed his tactics. After a little powwow with some of his followers, he said
that if I would give him fifty muskets, twenty pounds of powder, the colonel's sword, and some
red cloth for his wives, I might land them. I replied that I had not a musket to spare nor
an ounce of powder, that the colonel was a high officer of his government, and that he of course
would not give up his uniform. Fortunately the colonel had retired to the cabin and did not
hear this modest demand, or he would have been as much outraged as if his sable Majesty had
asked for him to be served "roti a l'Ashantee." However, I told the king I would send his wives
some cloth and buttons. He grunted his approval but returned again to the charge, and asked
that he might choose a few of the captives for his own use, before landing. "Certainly not,"
I answered, "neither on board nor on shore," and added that he would be held accountable for
their good treatment as free men and women. He left thoroughly disappointed and bent on mischief.

In the meantime Mr. Block had made all preparations for landing, and had the boats lowered
and ranged alongside, with sufficient rice to last the blacks a week or ten days. The men and
boys were sent first. When they were called up from the hold and ordered into the boats not
one of them moved. They evidently divined what had been going on and dreaded leaving the vessel,
though our Kroomen tried to explain that they would be safe and free on shore. The explanation
was without effect, however, and they refused to move. The could only understand that they
were changing masters, and they preferred the present ones. Sending three or four men down,
I told them to pass up the negroes one at a time. Only a passive resistance was offered, such
as one often sees exhibited by cattle being loaded on the cars or on a steamer, and were silent,
not uttering a word of complaint. By noon the men were all on shore, and then we began with
the girls. They were more demonstrative than the men, and by their looks and gestures begged
not to be taken out of the vessel. I was much moved, for it was a painful duty, and I had become
interested in these beings, so utterly helpless, so childlike in their dependence on those
around them. And I could not help thinking what their fate would be, thrown upon the shore
hundreds of miles from their homes, and among a people strange to them in language.

Even Mr. Block was deeply stirred. "He had not shipped," he said, "for such work." I went to
my cabin and left him in charge. In the course of an hour he reported, "All ashore, sir." I
told him to have the gig manned and I would go on shore with Colonel Royal, and get a receipt
from Governor Marshall for my late cargo. The colonel declined to accompany me, alleging sickness
and requesting me to get the necessary papers signed. No doubt he felt safer on board than
within reach of King George.

We landed through the surf on a sandy beach, on which the waves of the Atlantic were fretting.
Near by was a thick grove of cocoanut trees, under which in groups of four and five were those
who had just been landed. They were seated on the ground, their heads resting on their knees,
in a position of utter abnegation, surrounded by three or four hundred chattering savages of
all ages, headed by the king. With the exception of him and a few of his head men, the clothing
of the company would not have covered a rag baby. They were no doubt discussing the appearance
of the strangers and making their selections.

I found the governor's house and the houses of the few settlers some distance back on a slight
elevation. The governor was comfortably, though plainly situated, with a large family around
him. He gave me a receipt for the number of blacks landed, but said it would be impossible
for him to prevent the natives from taking and enslaving them. I agreed with him, and said
he must repeat to the king what I had told him. Then bidding him good-by I returned on board,
sad and weary as one often feels after being relieved of a great burden. At the same time I
wondered whether the fate of these people would have been any worse if the captain of the slaver
had succeeded in landing them in the Brazils or the West Indies. Sierra Leone being a crown
colony, the English could land all their captives there and provide for them until they were
able to work for themselves. In this respect they had a great advantage over us.

Getting under way, I proceeded to Monrovia to land Colonel Royal, and then to Porto Praya,
our squadron's headquarters. There I found Commodore Gregory in the flagship corvette Portsmouth,
and reported to him. Soon after the Porpoise came in, and I joined my old craft, giving up
my command of the captured slaver rather reluctantly.

MR. CHARLES W. CHESNUTT'S STORIES by W. D. Howells

The critical reader of the story called The Wife of his Youth, which appeared in these pages
two years ago, must have noticed uncommon traits in what was altogether a remarkable piece
of work. The first was the novelty of the material; for the writer dealt not only with people
who were not white, but with people who were not black enough to contrast grotesquely with
white people,--who in fact were of that near approach to the ordinary American in race and
color which leaves, at the last degree, every one but the connoisseur in doubt whether they
are Anglo-Saxon or Anglo-African. Quite as striking as this novelty of the material was the
author's thorough mastery of it, and his unerring knowledge of the life he had chosen in its
peculiar racial characteristics. But above all, the story was notable for the passionless handling
of a phase of our common life which is tense with potential tragedy; for the attitude, almost
ironical, in which the artist observes the play of contesting emotions in the drama under his
eyes; and for his apparently reluctant, apparently helpless consent to let the spectator know
his real feeling in the matter. Any one accustomed to study methods in fiction, to distinguish
between good and bad art, to feel the joy which the delicate skill possible only from a love
of truth can give, must have known a high pleasure in the quiet self-restraint of the performance;
and such a reader would probably have decided that the social situation in the piece was studied
wholly from the outside, by an observer with special opportunities for knowing it, who was,
as it were, surprised into final sympathy.

Now, however, it is known that the author of this story is of negro blood,--diluted, indeed,
in such measure that if he did not admit this descent few would imagine it, but still quite
of that middle world which lies next, though wholly outside, our own. Since his first story
appeared he has contributed several others to these pages, and he now makes a showing palpable
to criticism in a volume called The Wife of his Youth, and Other Stories of the Color Line;
a volume of Southern sketches called The Conjure Woman; and a short life of Frederick Douglass,
in the Beacon Series of biographies. The last is a simple, solid, straight piece of work, not
remarkable above many other biographical studies by people entirely white, and yet important
as the work of a man not entirely white treating of a great man of his inalienable race. But
the volumes of fiction ARE remarkable above many, above most short stories by people entirely
white, and would be worthy of unusual notice if they were not the work of a man not entirely white.

It is not from their racial interest that we could first wish to speak of them, though that
must have a very great and very just claim upon the critic. It is much more simply and directly,
as works of art, that they make their appeal, and we must allow the force of this quite independently
of the other interest. Yet it cannot always be allowed. There are times in each of the stories
of the first volume when the simplicity lapses, and the effect is as of a weak and uninstructed
touch. There are other times when the attitude, severely impartial and studiously aloof, accuses
itself of a little pompousness. There are still other times when the literature is a little
too ornate for beauty, and the diction is journalistic, reporteristic. But it is right to add
that these are the exceptional times, and that for far the greatest part Mr. Chesnutt seems
to know quite as well what he wants to do in a given case as Maupassant, or Tourguenief, or
Mr. James, or Miss Jewett, or Miss Wilkins, in other given cases, and has done it with an art
of kindred quiet and force. He belongs, in other words, to the good school, the only school,
all aberrations from nature being so much truancy and anarchy. He sees his people very clearly,
very justly, and he shows them as he sees them, leaving the reader to divine the depth of his
feeling for them. He touches all the stops, and with equal delicacy in stories of real tragedy
and comedy and pathos, so that it would be hard to say which is the finest in such admirably
rendered effects as The Web of Circumstance, The Bouquet, and Uncle Wellington's Wives. In
some others the comedy degenerates into satire, with a look in the reader's direction which
the author's friend must deplore.

As these stories are of our own time and country, and as there is not a swashbuckler of the
seventeenth century, or a sentimentalist of this, or a princess of an imaginary kingdom, in
any of them, they will possibly not reach half a million readers in six months, but in twelve
months possibly more readers will remember them than if they had reached the half million.
They are new and fresh and strong, as life always is, and fable never is; and the stories of
The Conjure Woman have a wild, indigenous poetry, the creation of sincere and original imagination,
which is imparted with a tender humorousness and a very artistic reticence. As far as his race
is concerned, or his sixteenth part of a race, it does not greatly matter whether Mr. Chesnutt
invented their motives, or found them, as he feigns, among his distant cousins of the Southern
cabins. In either case, the wonder of their beauty is the same; and whatever is primitive and
sylvan or campestral in the reader's heart is touched by the spells thrown on the simple black
lives in these enchanting tales. Character, the most precious thing in fiction, is as faithfully
portrayed against the poetic background as in the setting of the Stories of the Color Line.

Yet these stories, after all, are Mr. Chesnutt's most important work, whether we consider them
merely as realistic fiction, apart from their author, or as studies of that middle world of
which he is naturally and voluntarily a citizen. We had known the nethermost world of the grotesque
and comical negro and the terrible and tragic negro through the white observer on the outside,
and black character in its lyrical moods we had known from such an inside witness as Mr. Paul
Dunbar; but it had remained for Mr. Chesnutt to acquaint us with those regions where the paler
shades dwell as hopelessly, with relation to ourselves, as the blackest negro. He has not shown
the dwellers there as very different from ourselves. They have within their own circles the
same social ambitions and prejudices; they intrigue and truckle and crawl, and are snobs, like
ourselves, both of the snobs that snub and the snobs that are snubbed. We may choose to think
them droll in their parody of pure white society, but perhaps it would be wiser to recognize
that they are like us because they are of our blood by more than a half, or three quarters,
or nine tenths. It is not, in such cases, their negro blood that characterizes them; but it
is their negro blood that excludes them, and that will imaginably fortify them and exalt them.
Bound in that sad solidarity from which there is no hope of entrance into polite white society
for them, they may create a civilization of their own, which need not lack the highest quality.
They need not be ashamed of the race from which they have sprung, and whose exile they share;
for in many of the arts it has already shown, during a single generation of freedom, gifts
which slavery apparently only obscured. With Mr. Booker Washington the first American orator
of our time, fresh upon the time of Frederick Douglass; with Mr. Dunbar among the truest of
our poets; with Mr. Tanner, a black American, among the only three Americans from whom the
French government ever bought a picture, Mr. Chesnutt may well be willing to own his color.

But that is his personal affair. Our own more universal interest in him arises from the more
than promise he has given in a department of literature where Americans hold the foremost place.
In this there is, happily, no color line; and if he has it in him to go forward on the way
which he has traced for himself, to be true to life as he has known it, to deny himself the
glories of the cheap success which awaits the charlatan in fiction, one of the places at the
top is open to him. He has sounded a fresh note, boldly, not blatantly, and he has won the
ear of the more intelligent public.

PATHS OF HOPE FOR THE NEGRO by Jerome Dowd

PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS OF A SOUTHERNER

It is too late in the day to discuss whether it would have been better had the Negro never
been brought into the Southern States. If his presence here has been beneficial, or is ever
to prove so, the price of the benefit has already been dearly paid for. He was the occasion
of the deadliest and most expensive war in modern times. In the next place, his presence has
corrupted politics and has limited statesmanship to a mere question of race supremacy. Great
problems concerning the political, industrial, and moral life of the people have been subordinated
or overshadowed, so that, while important strides have been made elsewhere in the investigation
of social conditions and in the administration of State and municipal affairs, in civil-service
reform, in the management of penal and charitable institutions, and in the field of education,
the South has lagged behind.

On the charts of illiteracy and crime the South is represented by an immense black spot. Such
are a few items of the account. It will require millions more of dollars and generations more
of earnest work before the total cost is met of bringing the black man to this side of the
globe. But the debt has been incurred and must be liquidated.

The welfare of the Negro is bound up with that of the white man in many important particulars:

First, the low standard of living among the blacks keeps down the wages of all classes of whites.
So long as the Negroes are content to live in miserable huts, wear rags, and subsist upon hog
fat and cow-pease, so long must the wages of white people in the same kind of work be pressed
toward the same level. The higher we raise the standard of living among the Negroes, the higher
will be the wages of the white people in the same occupations. The low standard of the Negroes
is the result of low productive power. The less intelligent and skilled the Negroes are, the
less they can produce, whether working for themselves or others, and hence, the less will be
the total wealth of the country.

But it may be asked, When the standard of living of the Negroes is raised, will not wages go
up, and will not that be a drawback? Certainly wages will go up, because the income of all
classes will be increased. High wages generally indicate high productive power and general
wealth, while low wages indicate the opposite. Only benefits can arise from better wages.

In the next place, the Negro's propensity to crime tends to excite the criminal tendencies
of the white man. The South enjoys the distinction of having the highest percentage of crime
in all the civilized world, and the reason is that the crimes of the one race provoke counter-crimes
in the other.

The physical well-being of the one race has such a conspicuous influence upon that of the other
that the subject requires no elaboration. The uncleanliness of person and habits of the Negroes
in their homes and in the homes of their employers tends to propagate diseases, and thus impairs
the health and increases the death-rate of the whole population.

Again, the lack of refinement in intellect, manners, and dress among the Negroes is an obstacle
to the cultivated life of the whites. Ignorance and the absence of taste and self-respect in
servants result in badly kept homes and yards, destruction of furniture and ware, ill-prepared
food, poor table service, and a general lowering of the standard of living. Furthermore, the
corrupt, coarse, and vulgar language of the Negroes is largely responsible for the jumbled
and distorted English spoken by many of the Southern whites.

Seeing that the degradation of the Negro is an impediment to the progress and civilization
of the white man, how may we effect an improvement in his condition?

First, municipalities should give more attention to the streets and alleys that traverse Negro
settlements. In almost every town in the South there are settlements, known by such names as
"New Africa," "Haiti," "Log Town," "Smoky Hollow," or "Snow Hill," exclusively inhabited by
Negroes. These settlements are often outside the corporate limits. The houses are built along
narrow, crooked, and dirty lanes, and the community is without sanitary regulations or oversight.
These quarters should be brought under municipal control, the lanes widened into streets and
cleaned, and provision made to guard against the opening of similar ones in the future.

In the next place, property-owners should build better houses for the Negroes to live in. The
weakness in the civilization of the Negroes is most pronounced in their family life. But improvement
in this respect is not possible without an improvement in the character and the comforts of
the houses they live in. Bad houses breed bad people and bad neighborhoods. There is no more
distinctive form of crime than the building and renting of houses unfit for human habitation.

Scarcely second in importance to improvements in house architecture is the need among Negroes
of more time to spend with their families. Employers of Negro labor should be less exacting
in the number of hours required for a day's work. Many domestic servants now work from six
in the morning until nine and ten o'clock at night. The Southern habit of keeping open shopping-places
until late at night encourages late suppers, retains cooks, butlers, and nurses until bedtime,
and robs them of all home life. If the merchants would close their shops at six o'clock, as
is the custom in the North, the welfare of both races would be greatly promoted.

Again, a revolution is needed in the character of the Negro's religion. At present it is too
largely an affair of the emotions. He needs to be taught that the religious life is something
to grow into by the perfection of personality, and not to be jumped into or sweated into at
camp-meetings. The theological seminaries and the graduate preachers should assume the task
of grafting upon the religion of the Negro that much sanity at least.

A reform is as much needed in the methods and aims of Negro education. Up to the present Negro
education has shared with that of the white man the fault of being top-heavy. Colleges and
universities have developed out of proportion to, and at the expense of, common schools. Then,
the kind of education afforded the Negro has not been fitted to his capacities and needs. He
has been made to pursue courses of study parallel to those prescribed for the whites, as though
the individuals of both races had to fill the same positions in life. Much of the Negro's education
has had nothing to do with his real life-work. It has only made him discontented and disinclined
to unfold his arms. The survival of the Negroes in the race for existence depends upon their
retaining possession of the few bread-winning occupations now open to them. But instead of
better qualifying themselves for these occupations they have been poring over dead languages
and working problems in mathematics. In the meantime the Chinaman and the steam-laundry have
abolished the Negro's wash-tub, trained white "tonsorial artists" have taken away his barber's
chair, and skilled painters and plasterers and mechanics have taken away his paint-brushes
and tool-chests. Every year the number of occupations open to him becomes fewer because of
his lack of progress in them. Unless a radical change takes place in the scope of his education,
so that he may learn better how to do his work, a tide of white immigration will set in and
force him out of his last stronghold, domestic service, and limit his sphere to the farm.

All primary schools for the Negroes should be equipped for industrial training in such work
as sewing, cooking, laundering, carpentry, and house-cleaning, and, in rural districts, in
elementary agriculture.

Secondary schools should add to the literary courses a more advanced course in industrial training,
so as to approach as nearly as possible the objects and methods of the Tuskegee and Hampton
Industrial and Normal Schools. Too much cannot be said in behalf of the revolution in the life
of the Negro which the work of these schools promises and, in part, has already wrought. The
writer is fully aware that education has a value aside from and above its bread-winning results,
and he would not dissuade the Negro from seeking the highest culture that he may be capable
of; but it is folly for him to wing his way through the higher realms of the intellect without
some acquaintance with the requirements and duties of life.

Changes are needed in the methods of Negro education as well as in its scope. Educators should
take into account, more than they have yet done, the differences in the mental characteristics
of the two races. It is a well-established fact that, while the lower races possess marked
capacity to deal with simple, concrete ideas, they lack power of generalization, and soon fatigue
in the realm of the abstract. It is also well known that the inferior races, being deficient
in generalization, which is a subjective process, are absorbed almost entirely in the things
that are objective. They have strong and alert eyesight, and are susceptible to impressions
through the medium of the eye to an extent that is impossible to any of the white races. This
fact is evidenced in the great number of pictures found in the homes of the Negroes. In default
of anything better, they will paper their walls with advertisements of the theater and the
circus, and even with pictures from vicious newspapers. They delight in street pageantry, fancy
costumes, theatrical performances, and similar spectacles. Factories employing Negroes generally
find it necessary to suspend operations on "circus day." They love stories of adventure and
any fiction that gives play to their imaginations. All their tastes lie in the realm of the
objective and the concrete.

Hence, in the school-room stress should be laid on those studies that appeal to the eye and
the imagination. Lessons should be given in sketching, painting, drawing, and casting. Reprints
of the popular works of art should be placed before the Negroes, that their love for art may
be gratified and their taste cultivated at the same time. Fancy needlework, dress-making, and
home decorations should also have an important place. These studies, while not contributing
directly to bread-winning, have a refining and softening influence upon character, and inspire
efforts to make the home more attractive. The more interest we can make the Negro take in his
personal appearance and in the comforts of his home, the more we shall strengthen and promote
his family life and raise the level of his civilization.

The literary education of the Negro should consist of carefully selected poems and novels that
appeal to his imagination and produce clear images upon his mind, excluding such literature
as is in the nature of psychological or moral research. Recitations and dialogues should be
more generally and more frequently required. In history emphasis should be given to what is
picturesque, dramatic, and biographical.

Coming to the political phase of the Negro problem, there is a general agreement among white
men that the Southern States cannot keep pace with the progress of the world as long as they
are menaced by Negro domination, and that, therefore, it is necessary to eliminate the Negro
vote from politics. When the Negroes become intelligent factors in society, when they become
thrifty and accumulate wealth, they will find the way to larger exercise of citizenship. They
can never sit upon juries to pass upon life and property until they are property-owners themselves,
and they can never hold the reins of government by reason of mere superiority of numbers. Before
they can take on larger political responsibilities they must demonstrate their ability to meet
them.

The Negroes will never be allowed to control State governments so long as they vote at every
election upon the basis of color, without regard whatever to political issues or private convictions.
If the Negroes would divide their votes according to their individual opinions, as the lamented
Charles Price, one of their best leaders, advised, there would be no danger of Negro domination
and no objection to their holding offices which they might be competent to fill. But as there
is no present prospect of their voting upon any other basis than that of color, the white people
are forced to accept the situation and protect themselves accordingly. Years of bitter and
costly experience have demonstrated over and over again that Negro rule is not only incompetent
and corrupt, but a menace to civilization. Some people imagine that there is something anomalous,
peculiar, or local in the race prejudice that binds all Negroes together; but this clan spirit
is a characteristic of all savage and semi-civilized peoples.

It should be well understood by this time that no foreign race inhabiting this country and
acting together politically can dominate the native whites. To permit an inferior race, holding
less than one tenth of the property of the community, to take the reins of government in its
hands, by reason of mere numerical strength, would be to renounce civilization. Our national
government, in making laws for Hawaii, has carefully provided for white supremacy by an educational
qualification for suffrage that excludes the semi-civilized natives. No sane man, let us hope,
would think of placing Manila under the control of a government of the Philippine Islands based
upon universal suffrage. Yet the problem in the South and the problem in the Philippines and
in Hawaii differ only in degree.

The only proper safeguard against Negro rule in States where the blacks outnumber or approximate
in number the whites lies in constitutional provisions establishing an educational test for
suffrage applicable to black and white alike. If the suffrage is not thus limited it is necessary
for the whites to resort to technicalities and ballot laws, to bribery or intimidation. To
set up an educational test with a "grandfather clause," making the test apply for a certain
time to the blacks only, seems to an outsider unnecessary, arbitrary, and unjust. The reason
for such a clause arises from the belief that no constitutional amendment could ever carry
if it immediately disfranchised the illiterate whites, as many property-holding whites belong
to that class. But the writer does not believe in the principle nor in the necessity for a
"grandfather clause." If constitutional amendments were to be submitted in North Carolina and
Virginia applying the educational test to both races alike after 1908, the question would be
lifted above the level of party gain, and would receive the support of white men of all parties
and the approbation of the moral sentiment of the American people. A white man who would disfranchise
a Negro because of his color or for mere party advantage is himself unworthy of the suffrage.
With the suffrage question adjusted upon an educational basis the Negroes would have the power
to work out their political emancipation, the white people having made education necessary
and provided the means for attaining it.

When the question of Negro domination is settled the path of progress of both races will be
very much cleared. Race conflicts will then be less frequent and race feeling less bitter.
With more friendly relations growing up, and with more concentration of energy on the part
of the Negroes in industrial lines, the opportunities for them will be widened and the task
of finding industrial adjustment in the struggle for life made easier. The wisest and best
leaders among the Negroes, such as Booker Washington and the late Charles Price, have tried
to turn the attention of the Negroes from politics to the more profitable pursuits of industry,
and if the professional politician would cease inspiring the Negroes to seek salvation in political
domination over the whites, the race issue would soon cease to exist.

The field is broad enough in the South for both races to attain all that is possible to them.
In spite of the periodic political conflicts and occasional local riots and acts of individual
violence, the relations between the races, in respect to nine tenths of the population, are
very friendly. The general condition has been too often judged by the acts of a small minority.
The Southern people understand the Negroes, and feel a real fondness for those that are thrifty
and well behaved. When fairly treated the Negro has a strong affection for his employer. He
seldom forgets a kindness, and is quick to forget a wrong. If he does not stay long at one
place, it is not that he dislikes his employer so much as that he has a restless temperament
and craves change. His disposition is full of mirth and sunshine, and not a little of the fine
flavor of Southern wit and humor is due to his influence. His nature is plastic, and while
he is easily molded into a monster, he is also capable of a high degree of culture. Many Negroes
are thoroughly honest, notwithstanding their bad environment and hereditary disposition to
steal. Negro servants are trusted with the keys to households to an extent that, probably,
is not the case among domestics elsewhere in the civilized world.

It is strange that two races working side by side should possess so many opposite traits of
character. The white man has strong will and convictions and is set in his ways. He lives an
indoor, monotonous life, restrains himself like a Puritan, and is inclined to melancholy. The
prevalence of Populism throughout the South is nothing but the outcome of this morbid tendency.
Farmers and merchants are entirely absorbed in their business, and the women, especially the
married women, contrast with the women of France, Germany, and even England, in their indoor
life and disinclination to mingle with the world outside. Public parks and public concerts,
such as are found in Europe, which call out husband, wife, and children for a few hours of
rest and communion with their friends, are almost unknown in the South. The few entertainments
that receive sanction generally exclude all but the well-to-do by the cost of admission. The
life of the poor in town and country is bleak and bare to the last degree.

Contrasting with this tendency is the free-and-easy life of the blacks. The burdens of the
present and the future weigh lightly upon their shoulders. They love all the worldly amusements;
in their homes they are free entertainers, and in their fondness for conversation and love
of street life they are equal to the French or Italians.

May we not hope that the conflict of these two opposite races is working out some advantages
to both, and that the final result will justify all that the conflict has cost?

SIGNS OF PROGRESS AMONG THE NEGROES by Booker T. Washington

In addition to the problem of educating eight million negroes in our Southern States and ingrafting
them into American citizenship, we now have the additional responsibility, either directly
or indirectly, of educating and elevating about eight hundred thousand others of African descent
in Cuba and Porto Rico, to say nothing of the white people of these islands, many of whom are
in a condition about as deplorable as that of the negroes. We have, however, one advantage
in approaching the question of the education of our new neighbors.

The experience that we have passed through in the Southern States during the last thirty years
in the education of my race, whose history and needs are not very different from the history
and needs of the Cubans and Porto Ricans, will prove most valuable in elevating the blacks
of the West Indian Islands. To tell what has already been accomplished in the South under most
difficult circumstances is to tell what may be done in Cuba and Porto Rico.

To this end let me tell a story.

In what is known as the black belt of the South--that is, where the negroes outnumber the whites--there
lived before the Civil War a white man who owned some two hundred slaves, and was prosperous.
At the close of the war he found his fortune gone, except that which was represented in land,
of which he owned several thousand acres. Of the two hundred slaves a large proportion decided,
after their freedom, to continue on the plantation of their former owner.

Some years after the war a young black boy, who seemed to have "rained down," was discovered
on the plantation by Mr. S-----, the owner. In daily rides through the plantation Mr. S-----
saw this boy sitting by the roadside, and his condition awakened his pity, for, from want of
care, he was covered from head to foot with sores, and Mr. S----- soon grew into the habit
of tossing him a nickel or a dime as he rode by. In some way this boy heard of the Tuskegee
Normal and Industrial Institute in Alabama, and of the advantages which it offered poor but
deserving colored men and women to secure an education through their own labor while taking
the course of study. This boy, whose name was William, made known to the plantation hands his
wish to go to the Tuskegee school. By each one "chipping in," and through the efforts of the
boy himself, a few decent pieces of clothing were secured, and a little money, but not enough
to pay his railroad fare, so the boy resolved to walk to Tuskegee, a distance of about one
hundred and fifty miles. Strange to say, he made the long distance with an expenditure of only
twenty cents in cash. He frankly told every one with whom he came in contact where he was going
and what he was seeking. Both white and colored people along the route gave him food and a
place to sleep free of cost, and even the usually exacting ferrymen were so impressed with
the young negro's desire for an education that, except in one case, he was given free ferriage
across the creeks and rivers.

One can easily imagine his appearance when he first arrived at Tuskegee, with his blistered
feet and small white bundle, which contained all the clothing he possessed.

On being shown into my office his first words were: "I's come. S'pose you been lookin' for
me, but I didn't come on de railroad." Looking up the records, it was found that this young
man had been given permission to come several months ago, but the correspondence had long since
been forgotten.

After being sent to the bath-room and provided with a tooth-brush,--for the tooth-brush at
Tuskegee is the emblem of civilization,--William was assigned to a room, and was given work
on the school farm of fourteen hundred acres, seven hundred of which are cultivated by student
labor. During his first year at Tuskegee William worked on the farm during the day, where he
soon learned to take a deep interest in all that the school was doing to teach the students
the best and most improved methods of farming, and studied for two hours at night in the class-room
after his hard day's work was over. At first he seemed drowsy and dull in the night-school,
and would now and then fall asleep while trying to study; but he did not grow discouraged.
The new machinery that he was compelled to use on the farm interested him because it taught
him that the farm work could be stripped of much of the old-time drudgery and toil, and seemed
to awaken his sleeping intellect. Soon he began asking the farm-instructors such questions
as where the Jersey and Holstein cattle came from, and why they produced more milk and butter
than the common long-tailed and long-horned cows that he had seen at home.

His night-school teachers found that he ceased to sleep in school, and began asking questions
about his lessons, and was soon able to calculate the number of square yards in an acre and
to tell the number of peach-trees required to plant an acre of land. After he had been at Tuskegee
two or three months the farm-manager came into my office on a cold, rainy day, and said that
William was virtually barefooted, the soles of his shoes having separated from the uppers,
though William had fastened them together as best he could with bits of wire. In this condition
the farm-instructor found him plowing without a word of complaint. A pair of second-hand shoes
was secured for him, and he was soon very happy.

I will not take this part of the story further except to say that at the end of his first year
at Tuskegee this young man, having made a start in his books, and having saved a small sum
of money above the cost of his board, which was credited to his account, entered the next year
our regular day-classes, though still dividing his time between the class-room and work on
the farm.

Toward the end of the year he found himself in need of money with which to buy books, clothing,
etc., and so wrote a carefully worded letter to Mr. S-----, the white man on whose plantation
he had lived, and who had been, in slavery, the owner of his mother.

In the letter he told Mr. S----- how he got to Tuskegee, what he was doing, and what his needs
were, and asked Mr. S----- to lend him fifteen dollars. Before receiving this letter Mr. S-----
had not thought once about the boy during his two years' absence; in fact, did not know that
he had left the plantation.

Mr. S----- was a good deal shocked, as well as amused, over such a request from such a source.
The letter went to the wastebasket without being answered. A few weeks later William sent a
second letter, in which he took it for granted that the first letter had not been received.
The second letter shared the same fate as the first. A third letter reached Mr. S----- in a
few weeks, making the same request. In answer to the third letter Mr. S----- told me that,
moved by some impulse which he himself never understood, he sent William the fifteen dollars.

Two or three years passed, and Mr. S----- had about forgotten William and the fifteen dollars;
but one morning while sitting upon his porch a bright young colored man walked up and introduced
himself as William, the boy to whom he used to toss small pieces of money, and the one to whom
he had sent fifteen dollars.

William paid Mr. S----- the fifteen dollars with interest, which he had earned while teaching
school after leaving Tuskegee.

This simple experience with this young colored man made a new and different person of Mr. S-----,
so far as the negro was concerned.

He began to think. He thought of the long past, but he thought most of the future, and of his
duty toward the hundreds of colored people on his plantation and in his community. After careful
thought he asked William Edwards to open a school on his plantation in a vacant log cabin.
That was seven years ago. On this same plantation at Snow Hill, Wilcox county, Alabama, a county
where, according to the last census, there are twenty-four thousand colored people and about
six thousand whites, there is now a school with two hundred pupils, five teachers from Tuskegee,
and three school buildings. The school has forty acres of land. In addition to the text-book
lessons, the boys are taught farming and carpentry, and the girls sewing and general house-keeping,
and the school is now in the act of starting a blacksmith and wheelwright department. This
school owes its existence almost wholly to Mr. S-----, who gave to the trustees the forty acres
of land, and has contributed liberally to the building fund, as well as to the pay of the teachers.
Gifts from a few friends in the North have been received, and the colored people have given
their labor and small sums in cash. When the people cannot find money to give, they have often
given corn, chickens, and eggs. The school has grown so popular that almost every leading white
man in the community is willing to make a small gift toward its maintenance.

In addition to the work done directly in the school for the children, the teachers in the Snow
Hill school have organized a kind of university extension movement. The farmers are organized
into conferences, which hold meetings each month. In these meetings they are taught better
methods of agriculture, how to buy land, how to economize and keep out of debt, how to stop
mortgaging, how to build school-houses and dwelling-houses with more than one room, how to
bring about a higher moral and religious standing, and are warned against buying cheap jewelry,
snuff, and whisky.

No one is a more interested visitor at these meetings than Mr. S-----himself. The matter does
not end in mere talk and advice. The women teachers go right into the cabins of the people
and show them how to keep them clean, how to dust, sweep, and cook.

When William Edwards left this community a few years ago for the Tuskegee school, he left the
larger proportion in debt, mortgaging their crops every year for the food on which to live.
As one old colored man expressed it, "I ain't got but six feet of land, and I is got to die
to git dat." The little school taught in a cabin lasted only three or four months in the year.
The religion was largely a matter of the emotions, with almost no practical ideas of morality.
It was the white man for himself and the negro for himself, each in too many cases trying to
take advantage of the other. The situation was pretty well described by a black man who said
to me: "I tells you how we votes. We always watches de white man, and we keeps watchin' de
white man. Den we knows we is right."

Now how changed is all at Snow Hill, and how it is gradually changing each year! Instead of
the hopelessness and dejection that were there a few years ago, there are now light and buoyancy
in the countenances and movements of the people. The negroes are getting out of debt and buying
land, ceasing to mortgage their crops, building houses with two or three rooms, and a higher
moral and religious standard has been established.

Last May, on the day that the school had its closing exercises, there were present, besides
the hundreds of colored-people, about fifty of the leading white men and women of the county,
and these white people seemed as much interested in the work of the school as the people of
my own race.

Only a few years ago in the State of Alabama the law in reference to the education of the negro
read as follows: "Any person or persons who shall attempt to teach any free person of color
or slave to spell, read, or write shall, upon conviction thereof by indictment, be fined in
a sum not less than two hundred and fifty dollars nor more than five hundred dollars."

Within half a dozen years I have heard Dr. J. L. M. Curry, a brave, honest ex-Confederate officer,
in addressing both the Alabama and Georgia State legislatures, say to those bodies in the most
emphatic manner that it was as much the duty of the State to educate the negro children as
the white children, and in each case Dr. Curry's words were cheered.

Here at Snow Hill is the foundation for the solution of the legal and political difficulties
that exist in the South, and the improvement of the industrial condition of the negro in Cuba
and Porto Rico. This solution will not come all at once, but gradually. The foundation must
exist in the commercial and industrial development of the people of my race in the South and
in the West Indian Islands.

The most intelligent whites are beginning to realize that they cannot go much higher than they
lift the negro at the same time. When a black man owns and cultivates the best farm to be found
in his county he will have the confidence and respect of most of the white people in that county.
When a black man is the largest taxpayer in his community his white neighbor will not object
very long to his voting, and having that vote honestly counted. Even now a black man who has
five hundred dollars to lend has no trouble in finding a white man who is willing to borrow
his money. The negro who is a large stockholder in a railroad company will always be treated
with justice on that railroad.

Many of the most intelligent colored people are learning that while there are many bad white
men in the South, there are Southern whites who have the highest interests of the negro just
as closely at heart as have any other people in any part of the country. Many of the negroes
are learning that it is folly not to cultivate in every honorable way the friendship of the
white man who is their next-door neighbor.

To describe the work being done in connection with the public schools by graduates of Tuskegee
and other institutions in the South, at such places as Mount Meigs, under Miss Cornelia Bowen;
Denmark, South Carolina; Abbeville and Newville, Alabama; Christiansburg, Virginia, and numbers
of other places in the Gulf States, would be only to repeat in a larger or smaller degree what
I have said of Snow Hill.

Not very long after the last national election I visited a town in the South, to speak at a
meeting which had for its object the raising of money to complete the school-house. The audience
was about equally divided between white men and women and black men and women. When the time
for the collection came it was intensely satisfactory to observe that the white side of the
audience was just as eager to make its small contributions as were the members of my own race.
But I was anxious to see how the late election had been conducted in that community. I soon
found out that the Republican party, composed almost wholly of the black people, was represented
by an election officer in the person of one of the best-educated colored men in the town, that
both the Democratic and Populist parties were equally well represented, and that there was
no suspicion of unfairness.

But I wished to go a little deeper, and I soon found that one of the leading stores in this
community was owned by a colored man; that a cotton-gin was owned by a colored man; that the
sawmill was owned by another colored man. Colored men had mortgages on white men's crops, and
vice versa, and colored people not only owned land, but in several cases were renting land
to white men. Black men were in debt to white men, and white men were in debt to black men.
In a word, the industrial and commercial relations of the races were interwoven just as if
all had been of one race.

An object-lesson in civilization is more potent in compelling people to act right than a law
compelling them to do so. Some years ago a colored woman who had graduated at Tuskegee began
her life-work in a Southern community where the force of white public sentiment was opposed
to the starting of what was termed a "nigger school." At first this girl was tempted to abuse
her white sister, but she remembered that perhaps the white woman had been taught from her
earliest childhood, through reading and conversation, that education was not good for the negro,
that it would result only in trouble to the community, and that no amount of abuse could change
this prejudice.

After a while this colored teacher was married to an educated colored man, and they built a
little cottage, which, in connection with her husband's farm, was a model. One morning one
of the white women who had been most intense in her feelings was passing this cottage, and
her attention was attracted to the colored woman who was at work in her beautiful flower-garden.
A conversation took place concerning the flowers. At another time this same white woman was
so attracted by this flower-garden that she came inside the yard, and from the yard she went
into the sitting-room and examined the books and papers.

This acquaintance has now ripened and broadened, so that to-day there are few people in that
community more highly respected than this colored family. What did it all? This object-lesson.
No one could explain that away. One such object-lesson in every community in the South is more
powerful than all the laws Congress can pass in the direction of bringing about right relations
between blacks and whites.

A few months ago an agricultural county fair, the first ever held in that county, was organized
and held at Calhoun, Alabama, by the teachers in the Calhoun School, which is an offshoot of
the Hampton Institute. Both the colored people and numbers of white visitors were astonished
at the creditable exhibits made by the colored people. Most of these white people saw the school
work at Calhoun for the first time. Perhaps no amount of abstract talk or advice could have
brought them to this school, but the best hog, the largest pumpkin, or the most valuable bale
of cotton possessed a common interest, and it has been a comparatively easy thing to extend
their interest from the best hog to the work being done in the school-room. Further, this fair
convinced these white people, as almost nothing else could have done, that education was making
the negroes better citizens rather than worse; that the people were not being educated away
from themselves, but with their elevation the conditions about them were being lifted in a
manner that possessed an interest and value for both races.

It was after speaking, not long ago, to the colored people at such a county fair in North Carolina
that I was asked the next morning to speak to the white students at their college, who gave
me as hearty a greeting as I have ever received at Northern colleges.

But such forces as I have described--forces that are gradually regenerating the entire South
and will regenerate Cuba and Porto Rico--are not started and kept in motion without a central
plant--a power-house, where the power is generated. I cannot describe all these places of power.
Perhaps the whole South and the whole country are most indebted to the Hampton Institute in
Virginia. Then there is Fisk University at Nashville, Tennessee; Talladega College at Talladega,
Alabama; Spelman Seminary, Atlanta University, and Atlanta Baptist College at Atlanta; Biddle
University in North Carolina; Claflin University at Orangeburg, South Carolina; and Knoxville
College at Knoxville, Tennessee. Some of these do a different grade of work, but one much needed.

At Tuskegee, Alabama, starting fifteen years ago in a little shanty with one teacher and thirty
students, with no property, there has grown up an industrial and educational village where
the ideas that I have referred to are put into the heads, hearts, and hands of an army of colored
men and women, with the purpose of having them become centers of light and civilization in
every part of the South. One visiting the Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute to-day will
find eight hundred and fifty students gathered from twenty-four States, with eighty-eight teachers
and officers training these students in literary, religious, and industrial work.

Counting the students and the families of the instructors, the visitor will find a black village
of about twelve hundred people. Instead of the old, worn-out plantation that was there fifteen
years ago, there is a modern farm of seven hundred acres cultivated by student labor. There
are Jersey and Holstein cows and Berkshire pigs, and the butter used is made by the most modern
process.

Aside from the dozens of neat, comfortable cottages owned by individual teachers and other
persons, who have settled in this village for the purpose of educating their children, he will
find thirty-six buildings of various kinds and sizes, owned and built by the school, property
valued at three hundred thousand dollars. Perhaps the most interesting thing in connection
with these buildings is that, with the exception of three, they have been built by student
labor. The friends of the school have furnished money to pay the teachers and for material.

When a building is to be erected, the teacher in charge of the mechanical and architectural
drawing department gives to the class in drawing a general description of the building desired,
and then there is a competition to see whose plan will be accepted. These same students in
most cases help do the practical work of putting up the building--some at the sawmill, the
brick-yard, or in the carpentry, brickmaking, plastering, painting, and tinsmithing departments.
At the same time care is taken to see not only that the building goes up properly, but that
the students, who are under intelligent instructors in their special branch, are taught at
the same time the principles as well as the practical part of the trade.

The school has the building in the end, and the students have the knowledge of the trade. This
same principle applies, whether in the laundry, where the washing for seven or eight hundred
people is done, or in the sewing-room, where a large part of the clothing for this colony is
made and repaired, or in the wheelwright and blacksmith departments, where all the wagons and
buggies used by the school, besides a large number for the outside public, are manufactured,
or in the printing-office, where a large part of the printing for the white and colored people
in this region is done. Twenty-six different industries are here in constant operation.

When the student is through with his course of training he goes out feeling that it is just
as honorable to labor with the hand as with the head, and instead of his having to look for
a place, the place usually seeks him, because he has to give that which the South wants. One
other thing should not be overlooked in our efforts to develop the black man. As bad as slavery
was, almost every large plantation in the South during that time was, in a measure, an industrial
school. It had its farming department, its blacksmith, wheelwright, brickmaking, carpentry,
and sewing departments. Thus at the close of the war our people were in possession of all the
common and skilled labor in the South. For nearly twenty years after the war we overlooked
the value of the ante-bellum training, and no one was trained to replace these skilled men
and women who were soon to pass away; and now, as skilled laborers from foreign countries,
with not only educated hands but trained brains, begin to come into the South and take these
positions once held by us, we are gradually waking up to the fact that we must compete with
the white man in the industrial world if we would hold our own. No one understands his value
in the labor world better than the old colored man. Recently, when a convention was held in
the South by the white people for the purpose of inducing white settlers from the North and
West to settle in the South, one of these colored men said to the president of the convention:
"'Fore de Lord, boss, we's got as many white people down here now as we niggers can support."

The negro in the South has another advantage. While there is prejudice against him along certain
lines,--in the matter of business in general, and the trades especially,--there is virtually
no prejudice so far as the native Southern white man is concerned. White men and black men
work at the same carpenter's bench and on the same brick wall. Sometimes the white man is the
"boss," sometimes the black man is the boss.

Some one chaffed a colored man recently because, when he got through with a contract for building
a house, he cleared just ten cents; but he said: "All right, boss; it was worth ten cents to
be de boss of dem white men." If a Southern white man has a contract to let for the building
of a house, he prefers the black contractor, because he has been used to doing business of
this character with a negro rather than with a white man.

The negro will find his way up as a man just in proportion as he makes himself valuable, possesses
something that a white man wants, can do something as well as, or better than, a white man.

I would not have my readers get the thought that the problem in the South is settled, that
there is nothing else to be done; far from this. Long years of patient, hard work will be required
for the betterment of the condition of the negro in the South, as well as for the betterment
of the condition of the negro in the West Indies.

There are bright spots here and there that point the way. Perhaps the most that we have accomplished
in the last thirty years is to show the North and the South how the fourteen slaves landed
a few hundred years ago at Jamestown, Virginia,--now nearly eight millions of freemen in the
South alone,--are to be made a safe and useful part of our democratic and Christian institutions.

The main thing that is now needed to bring about a solution of the difficulties in the South
is money in large sums, to be used largely for Christian, technical, and industrial education.

For more than thirty years we have been trying to solve one of the most serious problems in
the history of the world largely by passing around a hat in the North. Out of their poverty
the Southern States have done well in assisting; many more millions are needed, and these millions
will have to come before the question as to the negro in the South is settled.

There never was a greater opportunity for men of wealth to place a few million dollars where
they could be used in lifting up and regenerating a whole race; and let it always be borne
in mind that every dollar given for the proper education of the negro in the South is almost
as much help to the Southern white man as to the negro himself. So long as the whites in the
South are surrounded by a race that is, in a large measure, in ignorance and poverty, so long
will this ignorance and poverty of the negro in a score of ways prevent the highest development
of the white man.

The problem of lifting up the negro in Cuba and Porto Rico is an easier one in one respect,
even if it proves more difficult in others. It will be less difficult, because there is the
absence of that higher degree of race feeling which exists in many parts of the United States.
Both the white Cuban and the white Spaniard have treated the people of African descent, in
civil, political, military, and business matters, very much as they have treated others of
their own race. Oppression has not cowed and unmanned the Cuban negro in certain respects as
it has the American negro.

In only a few instances is the color-line drawn. How Americans will treat the negro Cuban,
and what will be the tendency of American influences in the matter of the relation of the races,
remains an interesting and open question. Certainly it will place this country in an awkward
position to have gone to war to free a people from Spanish cruelty, and then as soon as it
gets them within its power to treat a large proportion of the population worse than did even
Spain herself, simply on account of color.

While in the matter of the relation of the races the problem before us in the West Indies is
easier, in respect to the industrial, moral, and religious sides it is more difficult. The
negroes on these islands are largely an agricultural people, and for this reason, in addition
to a higher degree of mental and religious training, they need the same agricultural, mechanical,
and domestic training that is fast helping the negroes in our Southern States. Industrial training
will not only help them to the ownership of property, habits of thrift and economy, but the
acquiring of these elements of strength will go further than anything else in improving the
moral and religious condition of the masses, just as has been and is true of my people in the
Southern States.

With the idea of getting the methods of industrial education pursued at Hampton and Tuskegee
permanently and rightly started in Cuba and Porto Rico, a few of the most promising men and
women from these islands have been brought to the Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute,
and educated with the view of having them return and take the lead in affording industrial
training on these islands, where the training can best be given to the masses.

The emphasis that I have placed upon an industrial education does not mean that the negro is
to be excluded from the higher interests of life, but it does mean that in proportion as the
negro gets the foundation,--the useful before the ornamental,--in the same proportion will
he accelerate his progress in acquiring those elements which do not pertain so directly to
the utilitarian.

Phillips Brooks once said, "One generation gathers the material, and the next builds the palaces."
Very largely this must be the material-gathering generation of black people, but in due time
the palaces will come if we are patient.

THE MARCH OF PROGRESS by Charles W. Chesnutt

The colored people of Patesville had at length gained the object they had for a long time been
seeking--the appointment of a committee of themselves to manage the colored schools of the
town. They had argued, with some show of reason, that they were most interested in the education
of their own children, and in a position to know, better than any committee of white men could,
what was best for their children's needs. The appointments had been made by the county commissioners
during the latter part of the summer, and a week later a meeting was called for the purpose
of electing a teacher to take charge of the grammar school at the beginning of the fall term.

The committee consisted of Frank Gillespie, or "Glaspy," a barber, who took an active part
in local politics; Bob Cotten, a blacksmith, who owned several houses and was looked upon as
a substantial citizen; and Abe Johnson, commonly called "Ole Abe" or "Uncle Abe," who had a
large family, and drove a dray, and did odd jobs of hauling; he was also a class-leader in
the Methodist church. The committee had been chosen from among a number of candidates--Gillespie
on account of his political standing, Cotten as representing the solid element of the colored
population, and Old Abe, with democratic impartiality, as likely to satisfy the humbler class
of a humble people. While the choice had not pleased everybody,--for instance, some of the
other applicants,--it was acquiesced in with general satisfaction. The first meeting of the
new committee was of great public interest, partly by reason of its novelty, but chiefly because
there were two candidates for the position of teacher of the grammar school.

The former teacher, Miss Henrietta Noble, had applied for the school. She had taught the colored
children of Patesville for fifteen years. When the Freedmen's Bureau, after the military occupation
of North Carolina, had called for volunteers to teach the children of the freedmen, Henrietta
Nobel had offered her services. Brought up in a New England household by parents who taught
her to fear God and love her fellow-men, she had seen her father's body brought home from a
Southern battle-field and laid to rest in the village cemetery; and a short six months later
she had buried her mother by his side. Henrietta had no brothers or sisters, and her nearest
relatives were cousins living in the far West. The only human being in whom she felt any special
personal interest was a certain captain in her father's regiment, who had paid her some attention.
She had loved this man deeply, in a maidenly, modest way; but he had gone away without speaking,
and had not since written. He had escaped the fate of many others, and at the close of the
war was alive and well, stationed in some Southern garrison.

When her mother died, Henrietta had found herself possessed only of the house where she lived
and the furniture it contained, neither being of much value, and she was thrown upon her own
resources for a livelihood. She had a fair education and had read many good books. It was not
easy to find employment such as she desired. She wrote to her Western cousins, and they advised
her to come to them, as they thought they could do something for her if she were there. She
had almost decided to accept their offer, when the demand arose for teachers in the South.
Whether impelled by some strain of adventurous blood from a Pilgrim ancestry, or by a sensitive
pride that shrank from dependence, or by some dim and unacknowledged hope that she might sometime,
somewhere, somehow meet Captain Carey--whether from one of these motives or a combination of
them all, joined to something of the missionary spirit, she decided to go South, and wrote
to her cousins declining their friendly offer.

She had come to Patesville when the children were mostly a mob of dirty little beggars. She
had distributed among them the cast-off clothing that came from their friends in the North;
she had taught them to wash their faces and to comb their hair; and patiently, year after year,
she had labored to instruct them in the rudiments of learning and the first principles of religion
and morality. And she had not wrought in vain. Other agencies, it is true, had in time cooperated
with her efforts, but any one who had watched the current of events must have been compelled
to admit that the very fair progress of the colored people of Patesville in the fifteen years
following emancipation had been due chiefly to the unselfish labors of Henrietta Noble, and
that her nature did not belie her name.

Fifteen years is a long time. Miss Noble had never met Captain Carey; and when she learned
later that he had married a Southern girl in the neighborhood of his post, she had shed her
tears in secret and banished his image from her heart. She had lived a lonely life. The white
people of the town, though they learned in time to respect her and to value her work, had never
recognized her existence by more than the mere external courtesy shown by any community to
one who lives in the midst of it. The situation was at first, of course, so strained that she
did not expect sympathy from the white people; and later, when time had smoothed over some
of the asperities of war, her work had so engaged her that she had not had time to pine over
her social exclusion. Once or twice nature had asserted itself, and she had longed for her
own kind, and had visited her New England home. But her circle of friends was broken up, and
she did not find much pleasure in boarding-house life; and on her last visit to the North but
one, she had felt so lonely that she had longed for the dark faces of her pupils, and had welcomed
with pleasure the hour when her task should be resumed.

But for several reasons the school at Patesville was of more importance to Miss Noble at this
particular time than it ever had been before. During the last few years her health had not
been good. An affection of the heart similar to that from which her mother had died, while
not interfering perceptibly with her work, had grown from bad to worse, aggravated by close
application to her duties, until it had caused her grave alarm. She did not have perfect confidence
in the skill of the Patesville physicians, and to obtain the best medical advice had gone to
New York during the summer, remaining there a month under the treatment of an eminent specialist.
This, of course, had been expensive and had absorbed the savings of years from a small salary;
and when the time came for her to return to Patesville, she was reduced, after paying her traveling
expenses, to her last ten-dollar note.

"It is very fortunate," the great man had said at her last visit, "that circumstances permit
you to live in the South, for I am afraid you could not endure a Northern winter. You are getting
along very well now, and if you will take care of yourself and avoid excitement, you will be
better." He said to himself as she went away: "It's only a matter of time, but that is true
about us all; and a wise physician does as much good by what he withholds as by what he tells."

Miss Noble had not anticipated any trouble about the school. When she went away the same committee
of white men was in charge that had controlled the school since it had become part of the public-school
system of the State on the withdrawal of support from the Freedmen's Bureau. While there had
been no formal engagement made for the next year, when she had last seen the chairman before
she went away, he had remarked that she was looking rather fagged out, had bidden her good-by,
and had hoped to see her much improved when she returned. She had left her house in the care
of the colored woman who lived with her and did her housework, assuming, of course, that she
would take up her work again in the autumn.

She was much surprised at first, and later alarmed, to find a rival for her position as teacher
of the grammar school. Many of her friends and pupils had called on her since her return, and
she had met a number of the people at the colored Methodist church, where she taught in the
Sunday-school. She had many friends and supporters, but she soon found out that her opponent
had considerable strength. There had been a time when she would have withdrawn and left him
a clear field, but at the present moment it was almost a matter of life and death to her--certainly
the matter of earning a living--to secure the appointment.

The other candidate was a young man who in former years had been one of Miss Noble's brightest
pupils. When he had finished his course in the grammar school, his parents, with considerable
sacrifice, had sent him to a college for colored youth. He had studied diligently, had worked
industriously during his vacations, sometimes at manual labor, sometimes teaching a country
school, and in due time had been graduated from his college with honors. He had come home at
the end of his school life, and was very naturally seeking the employment for which he had
fitted himself. He was a "bright" mulatto, with straight hair, an intelligent face, and a well-set
figure. He had acquired some of the marks of culture, wore a frock-coat and a high collar,
parted his hair in the middle, and showed by his manner that he thought a good deal of himself.
He was the popular candidate among the progressive element of his people, and rather confidently
expected the appointment.

The meeting of the committee was held in the Methodist church, where, in fact, the grammar
school was taught, for want of a separate school-house. After the preliminary steps to effect
an organization, Mr. Gillespie, who had been elected chairman, took the floor.

"The principal business to be brought befo' the meet'n' this evenin'," he said, "is the selection
of a teacher for our grammar school for the ensuin' year. Two candidates have filed applications,
which, if there is no objection, I will read to the committee. The first is from Miss Noble,
who has been the teacher ever since the grammar school was started."

He then read Miss Noble's letter, in which she called attention to her long years of service,
to her need of the position, and to her affection for the pupils, and made formal application
for the school for the next year. She did not, from motives of self-respect, make known the
extremity of her need; nor did she mention the condition of her health, as it might have been
used as an argument against her retention.

Mr. Gillespie then read the application of the other candidate, Andrew J. Williams. Mr. Williams
set out in detail his qualifications for the position: his degree from Riddle University; his
familiarity with the dead and living languages and the higher mathematics; his views of discipline;
and a peroration in which he expressed the desire to devote himself to the elevation of his
race and assist the march of progress through the medium of the Patesville grammar school.
The letter was well written in a bold, round hand, with many flourishes, and looked very aggressive
and overbearing as it lay on the table by the side of the sheet of small note-paper in Miss
Noble's faint and somewhat cramped handwriting.

"You have heard the readin' of the applications," said the chairman. "Gentlemen, what is yo'
pleasure?"

There being no immediate response, the chairman continued:

"As this is a matter of consid'able importance, involvin' not only the welfare of our schools,
but the progress of our race, an' as our action is liable to be criticized, whatever we decide,
perhaps we had better discuss the subjec' befo' we act. If nobody else has anything to obse've,
I will make a few remarks."

Mr. Gillespie cleared his throat, and, assuming an oratorical attitude, proceeded:

"The time has come in the history of our people when we should stand together. In this age
of organization the march of progress requires that we help ourselves, or be forever left behind.
Ever since the war we have been sendin' our child'n to school an' educatin' 'em; an' now the
time has come when they are leavin' the schools an' colleges, an' are ready to go to work.
An' what are they goin' to do? The white people won't hire 'em as clerks in their sto's an'
factories an' mills, an' we have no sto's or factories or mills of our own. They can't be lawyers
or doctors yet, because we haven't got the money to send 'em to medical colleges an' law schools.
We can't elect many of 'em to office, for various reasons. There's just two things they can
find to do--to preach in our own pulpits, an' teach in our own schools. If it wasn't for that,
they'd have to go on forever waitin' on white folks, like their fo'fathers have done, because
they couldn't help it. If we expect our race to progress, we must educate our young men an'
women. If we want to encourage 'em to get education, we must find 'em employment when they
are educated. We have now an opportunity to do this in the case of our young friend an' fellow-citizen,
Mr. Williams, whose eloquent an' fine-lookin' letter ought to make us feel proud of him an'
of our race.

"Of co'se there are two sides to the question. We have got to consider the claims of Miss Noble.
She has been with us a long time an' has done much good work for our people, an' we'll never
forget her work an' frien'ship. But, after all, she has been paid for it; she has got her salary
regularly an' for a long time, an' she has probably saved somethin', for we all know she hasn't
lived high; an', for all we know, she may have had somethin' left her by her parents. An' then
again, she's white, an' has got her own people to look after her; they've got all the money
an' all the offices an' all the everythin',--all that they've made an' all that we've made
for fo' hundred years,--an' they sho'ly would look out for her. If she don't get this school,
there's probably a dozen others she can get at the North. An' another thing: she is gettin'
rather feeble, an' it 'pears to me she's hardly able to stand teachin' so many child'n, an'
a long rest might be the best thing in the world for her.

"Now, gentlemen, that's the situation. Shall we keep Miss Noble, or shall we stand by our own
people? It seems to me there can hardly be but one answer. Self-preservation is the first law
of nature. Are there any other remarks?"

Old Abe was moving restlessly in his seat. He did not say anything, however, and the chairman
turned to the other member.

"Brother Cotten, what is yo' opinion of the question befo' the board?"

Mr. Cotten rose with the slowness and dignity becoming a substantial citizen, and observed:

"I think the remarks of the chairman have great weight. We all have nothin' but kind feelin's
fer Miss Noble, an' I came here to-night somewhat undecided how to vote on this question. But
after listenin' to the just an' forcible arguments of Brother Glaspy, it 'pears to me that,
after all, the question befo' us is not a matter of feelin', but of business. As a business
man, I am inclined to think Brother Glaspy is right. If we don't help ourselves when we get
a chance, who is goin' to help us?"

"That bein' the case," said the chairman, "shall we proceed to a vote? All who favor the election
of Brother Williams--"

At this point Old Abe, with much preliminary shuffling, stood up in his place and interrupted
the speaker.

"Mr. Chuhman," he said, "I s'pose I has a right ter speak in dis meet'n? I S'POSE I is a member
er dis committee?"

"Certainly, Brother Johnson, certainly; we shall be glad to hear from you."

"I s'pose I's got a right ter speak my min', ef I is po' an' black, an' don' weah as good clo's
as some other members er de committee?"

"Most assuredly, Brother Johnson," answered the chairman, with a barber's suavity, "you have
as much right to be heard as any one else. There was no intention of cuttin' you off."

"I s'pose," continued Abe, "dat a man wid fo'teen child'n kin be 'lowed ter hab somethin' ter
say 'bout de schools er dis town?"

"I am sorry, Brother Johnson, that you should feel slighted, but there was no intention to
igno' yo' rights. The committee will be please' to have you ventilate yo' views."

"Ef it's all be'n an' done reco'nized an' 'cided dat I's got de right ter be heared in dis
meet'n', I'll say w'at I has ter say, an' it won't take me long ter say it. Ef I should try
ter tell all de things dat Miss Noble has done fer de niggers er dis town, it'd take me till
ter-morrer mawnin'. Fer fifteen long yeahs I has watched her incomin's an' her outgoin's. Her
daddy was a Yankee kunnel, who died fighting fer ou' freedom. She come heah when we--yas, Mr.
Chuhman, when you an' Br'er Cotten--was jes sot free, an' when none er us didn' have a rag
ter ou' backs. She come heah, an' she tuk yo' child'n an' my child'n, an' she teached 'em sense
an' manners an' religion an' book-l'arnin'. When she come heah we didn' hab no chu'ch. Who
writ up No'th an' got a preacher sent to us, an' de fun's ter buil' dis same chu'ch-house we're
settin' in ter-night? Who got de money f'm de Bureau to s'port de school? An' when dat was
stop', who got de money f'm de Peabody Fun'? Talk about Miss Noble gittin' a sal'ry! Who paid
dat sal'ry up ter five years ago? Not one dollah of it come outer ou' pockets!

"An' den, w'at did she git fer de yuther things she done? Who paid her fer de gals she kep'
f'm throwin' deyse'ves away? Who paid fer de boys she kep' outer jail? I had a son dat seemed
to hab made up his min' ter go straight ter hell. I made him go ter Sunday-school, an' somethin'
dat woman said teched his heart, an' he behaved hisse'f, an' I ain' got no reason fer ter be
'shame' er 'im. An' I can 'member, Br'er Cotten, when you didn' own fo' houses an' a fahm.
An' when yo' fus wife was sick, who sot by her bedside an' read de Good Book ter 'er, w'en
dey wuzn' nobody else knowed how ter read it, an' comforted her on her way across de col',
dahk ribber? An' dat ain' all I kin 'member, Mr. Chuhman! When yo' gal Fanny was a baby, an'
sick, an' nobody knowed what was de matter wid 'er, who sent fer a doctor, an' paid 'im fer
comin', an' who he'ped nuss dat chile, an' tol' yo' wife w'at ter do, an' save' dat chile's
life, jes as sho' as de Lawd has save' my soul?

"An' now, aftuh fifteen yeahs o' slavin' fer us, who ain't got no claim on her, aftuh fifteen
yeahs dat she has libbed 'mongs' us an' made herse'f one of us, an' endyoed havin' her own
people look down on her, aftuh she has growed ole an' gray wukkin' fer us an' our child'n,
we talk erbout turnin' 'er out like a' ole hoss ter die! It 'pears ter me some folks has po'
mem'ries! Whar would we 'a' be'n ef her folks at de No'th hadn' 'membered us no bettuh? An'
we hadn' done nothin', neither, fer dem to 'member us fer. De man dat kin fergit w'at Miss
Noble has done fer dis town is unworthy de name er nigger! He oughter die an' make room fer
some 'spectable dog!

"Br'er Glaspy says we got a' educated young man, an' we mus' gib him sump'n' ter do. Let him
wait; ef I reads de signs right he won't hab ter wait long fer dis job. Let him teach in de
primary schools, er in de country; an' ef he can't do dat, let 'im work awhile. It don't hahm
a' educated man ter work a little; his fo'fathers has worked fer hund'eds of years, an' we's
worked, an' we're heah yet, an' we're free, an' we's gettin' ou' own houses an' lots an' hosses
an' cows--an' ou' educated young men. But don't let de fus thing we do as a committee be somethin'
we ought ter be 'shamed of as long as we lib. I votes fer Miss Noble, fus, las', an' all de time!"

When Old Abe sat down the chairman's face bore a troubled look. He remembered how his baby
girl, the first of his children that he could really call his own, that no master could hold
a prior claim upon, lay dying in the arms of his distracted young wife, and how the thin, homely,
and short-sighted white teacher had come like an angel into his cabin, and had brought back
the little one from the verge of the grave. The child was a young woman now, and Gillespie
had well-founded hopes of securing the superior young Williams for a son-in-law; and he realized
with something of shame that this later ambition had so dazzled his eyes for a moment as to
obscure the memory of earlier days.

Mr. Cotten, too, had not been unmoved, and there were tears in his eyes as he recalled how
his first wife, Nancy, who had borne with him the privations of slavery, had passed away, with
the teacher's hand in hers, before she had been able to enjoy the fruits of liberty. For they
had loved one another much, and her death had been to them both a hard and bitter thing. And,
as Old Abe spoke, he could remember, as distinctly as though they had been spoken but an hour
before, the words of comfort that the teacher had whispered to Nancy in her dying hour and
to him in his bereavement.

"On consideration, Mr. Chairman," he said, with an effort to hide a suspicious tremor in his
voice and to speak with the dignity consistent with his character as a substantial citizen,
"I wish to record my vote fer Miss Noble."

"The chair," said Gillespie, yielding gracefully to the majority, and greatly relieved that
the responsibility of his candidate's defeat lay elsewhere, "will make the vote unanimous,
and will appoint Brother Cotten and Brother Johnson a committee to step round the corner to
Miss Noble's and notify her of her election."

The two committeemen put on their hats, and, accompanied by several people who had been waiting
at the door to hear the result of the meeting, went around the corner to Miss Noble's house,
a distance of a block or two away. The house was lighted, so they knew she had not gone to
bed. They went in at the gate, and Cotten knocked at the door.

The colored maid opened it.

"Is Miss Noble home?" said Cotten.

"Yes; come in. She's waitin' ter hear from the committee."

The woman showed them into the parlor. Miss Noble rose from her seat by the table, where she
had been reading, and came forward to meet them. They did not for a moment observe, as she
took a step toward them, that her footsteps wavered. In her agitation she was scarcely aware
of it herself.

"Miss Noble," announced Cotten, "we have come to let you know that you have be'n 'lected teacher
of the grammar school fer the next year."

"Thank you; oh, thank you so much!" she said. "I am very glad. Mary"--she put her hand to her
side suddenly and tottered--"Mary, will you--"

A spasm of pain contracted her face and cut short her speech. She would have fallen had Old
Abe not caught her and, with Mary's help, laid her on a couch.

The remedies applied by Mary, and by the physician who was hastily summoned, proved unavailing.
The teacher did not regain consciousness.

If it be given to those whose eyes have closed in death to linger regretfully for a while about
their earthly tenement, or from some higher vantage-ground to look down upon it, then Henrietta
Noble's tolerant spirit must have felt, mingling with its regret, a compensating thrill of
pleasure; for not only those for whom she had labored sorrowed for her, but the people of her
own race, many of whom, in the blindness of their pride, would not admit during her life that
she served them also, saw so much clearer now that they took charge of her poor clay, and did
it gentle reverence, and laid it tenderly away amid the dust of their own loved and honored dead.

TWO weeks after Miss Noble's funeral the other candidate took charge of the grammar school,
which went on without any further obstacles to the march of progress. Said some, "We have nothing
to do with slaves." "Hereafter," commanded Halleck, "no slaves should be allowed to come into
your lines at all; if any come without your knowledge, when owners call for them, deliver them."
But others said, "We take grain and fowl; why not slaves?" Whereupon Fremont, as early as August,
1861, declared the slaves of Missouri rebels free. Being specially detailed from the ranks
to care for the freedmen at Fortress Monroe, he afterward founded the celebrated Port Royal
experiment and started the Freedmen's Aid Societies. Thus, under the timid Treasury officials
and bold army officers, Pierce's plan widened and developed. At first, the able-bodied men
were enlisted as soldiers or hired as laborers, the women and children were herded into central
camps under guard, and "superintendents of contrabands" multiplied here and there. Centres
of massed freedmen arose at Fortress Monroe, Va., Washington, D. C., Beaufort and Port Royal,
S. C., New Orleans, La., Vicksburg and Corinth, Miss., Columbus, Ky., Cairo, Ill., and elsewhere,
and the army chaplains found here new and fruitful fields.

Meantime the election took place, and the administration, returning from the country with a
vote of renewed confidence, addressed itself to the matter more seriously. They fled to the
friends that had freed them. They shrank from the master who still strove for their chains.
Next came the difficult question of labor. Nevertheless, something was done. The vision of
landowning, however, the righteous and reasonable ambition for forty acres and a mule which
filled the freedmen's dreams, was doomed in most cases to disappointment. And those men of
marvelous hind-sight, who to-day are seeking to preach the Negro back to the soil, know well,
or ought to know, that it was here, in 1865, that the finest opportunity of binding the black
peasant to the soil was lost. Yet, with help and striving, the Negro gained some land, and
by 1874, in the one state of Georgia, owned near 350,000 acres. State superintendents of education
were appointed, and by 1870 150,000 children were in school. Fisk, Atlanta, Howard, and Hampton
were founded in these days, and nearly $6,000,000 was expended in five years for educational
work, $750,000 of which came from the freedmen themselves.

What the Freedmen's Bureau cost the nation is difficult to determine accurately. Its methods
of bookkeeping were not good, and the whole system of its work and records partook of the hurry
and turmoil of the time. General Howard himself disbursed some $15,000,000 during his incumbency;
but this includes the bounties paid colored soldiers, which perhaps should not be counted as
an expense of the Bureau. In bounties, prize money, and all other expenses, the Bureau disbursed
over $20,000,000 before all of its departments were finally closed. To this ought to be added
the large expenses of the various departments of Negro affairs before 1865; but these are hardly
extricable from war expenditures, nor can we estimate with any accuracy the contributions of
benevolent societies during all these years.

Such was the work of the Freedmen's Bureau. To sum it up in brief, we may say: it set going
a system of free labor; it established the black peasant proprietor; it secured the recognition
of black freemen before courts of law; it founded the free public school in the South. The
Freedmen's Bureau expired by limitation in 1869, save its educational and bounty departments.
The educational work came to an end in 1872, and General Howard's connection with the Bureau
ceased at that time. The work of paying bounties was transferred to the adjutant general's
office, where it was continued three or four years longer. Yet it is but fair to say that the
perfect honesty of purpose and unselfish devotion of General Howard have passed untarnished
through the fire of criticism. Not so with all his subordinates, although in the case of the
great majority of these there were shown bravery and devotion to duty, even though sometimes
linked to narrowness and incompetency.

The most bitter attacks on the Freedmen's Bureau were aimed not so much at its conduct or policy
under the law as at the necessity for any such organization at all.

THE FRUITS OF INDUSTRIAL TRAINING by Booker T. Washington

The political, educational, social, and economic evolution through which the South passed during,
say, the first fifteen or twenty years after the close of the civil war furnishes one of the
most interesting periods that any country has passed through.

A large share of the thought and activity of the white South, of the black South, and of that
section of the North especially interested in my race, was directed during the years of the
Reconstruction period toward politics, or toward matters bearing upon what were termed civil
or social rights. The work of education was rather slow, and covered a large section of the
South; still I think I am justified in saying that in the public mind the Negro's relation
to politics overshadowed nearly every other interest. The education of the race was conducted
quietly, and attracted comparatively little attention, just as is true at the present time.
The appointment of one Negro postmaster at a third or fourth rate post office will be given
wider publicity through the daily press than the founding of a school, or some important discovery
in science.

With reference to the black man's political relation to the state and Federal governments,
I think I am safe in saying that for many years after the civil war there were sharp and antagonistic
views between the North and the South, as well as between the white South and the black South.
At practically every point where there was a political question to be decided in the South
the blacks would array themselves on one side and the whites on the other. I remember that
very soon after I began teaching school in Alabama an old colored man came to me just prior
to an election. He said: "You can read de newspapers and most of us can't, but dar is one thing
dat we knows dat you don't, and dat is how to vote down here; and we wants you to vote as we
does." We watches him till we finds out which way he gwine to vote. After we finds out which
way he gwine to vote, den we votes exactly de other way; den we knows we 's right."

Stories on the other side might be given showing that a certain class of white people, both
at the polls and in the Legislatures, voted just as unreasonably in opposing politically what
they thought the Negro or the North wanted, no matter how much benefit might ensue from a contrary
action. Unfortunately such antagonism did not end with matters political, but in many cases
affected the relation of the races in nearly every walk of life. Aside from political strife,
there was naturally deep feeling between the North and the South on account of the war. On
nearly every question growing out of the war, which was debated in Congress, or in political
campaigns, there was the keenest difference and often the deepest feeling. There was almost
no question of even a semi-political nature, or having a remote connection with the Negro,
upon which there was not sharp and often bitter division between the North and South. It is
needless to say that in many cases the Negro was the sufferer. He was being ground between
the upper and nether millstones. Even to this day it is well-nigh impossible, largely by reason
of the force of habit, in certain states to prevent state and even local campaigns from being
centred in some form upon the black man. In states like Mississippi, for example, where the
Negro ceased nearly a score of years ago, by operation of law, to be a determining factor in
politics, he forms in some way the principal fuel for campaign discussion at nearly every election.
The sad feature of this is, that it prevents the presentation before the masses of the people
of matters pertaining to local and state improvement, and to great national issues like finance,
tariff, or foreign policies. It prevents the masses from receiving the broad and helpful education
which every political campaign should furnish, and, what is equally unfortunate, it prevents
the youth from seeing and hearing on the platform the great political leaders of the two national
parties. During a national campaign few of the great Democratic leaders debate national questions
in the South, because it is felt that the old antagonism to the Negro politically will keep
the South voting one way. Few of the great Republican leaders appear on Southern platforms,
because they feel that nothing will be gained.

One of the saddest instances of this situation that has come within my knowledge occurred some
years ago in a certain Southern state where a white friend of mine was making the race for
Congress on the Democratic ticket in a district that was overwhelmingly Democratic. I speak
of this man as my friend, because there was no personal favor in reason which he would have
refused me. He was equally friendly to the race, and was generous in giving for its education,
and in helping individuals to buy land. His campaign took him into one of the "white" counties,
where there were few colored people, and where the whites were unusually ignorant. I was surprised
one morning to read in the daily papers of a bitter attack he had made on the Negro while speaking
in this county. The next time I saw him I informed him of my surprise. He replied that he was
ashamed of what he had said, and that he did not himself believe much that he had stated, but
gave as a reason for his action that he had found himself before an audience which had heard
little for thirty years in the way of political discussion that did not bear upon the Negro,
and that he therefore knew it was almost impossible to interest them in any other subject.

But this is somewhat aside from my purpose, which is, I repeat, to make plain that in all political
matters there was for years after the war no meeting ground of agreement for the two races,
or for the North and South. Upon the question of the Negro's civil rights, as embodied in what
was called the Civil Rights Bill, there was almost the same sharp line of division between
the races, and, in theory at least, between the Northern and Southern whites,--largely because
the former were supposed to be giving the blacks social recognition, and encouraging intermingling
between the races. The white teachers, who came from the North to work in missionary schools,
received for years little recognition or encouragement from the rank and file of their own
race. The lines were so sharply drawn that in cities where native Southern white women taught
Negro children in the public schools, they would have no dealings with Northern white women
who, perhaps, taught Negro children from the same family in a missionary school.

I want to call attention here to a phase of Reconstruction policy which is often overlooked.
All now agree that there was much in Reconstruction which was unwise and unfortunate. However
we may regard that policy, and much as we may regret mistakes, the fact is too often overlooked
that it was during the Reconstruction period that a public school system for the education
of all the people of the South was first established in most of the states. Much that was done
by those in charge of Reconstruction legislation has been overturned, but the public school
system still remains. True, it has been modified and improved, but the system remains, and
is every day growing in popularity and strength.

As to the difference of opinion between the North and the South regarding Negro education,
I find that many people, especially in the North, have a wrong conception of the attitude of
the Southern white people. It is and has been very generally thought that what is termed "higher
education" of the Negro has been from the first opposed by the white South. This opinion is
far from being correct. I remember that, in 1891, when I began the work of establishing the
Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, practically all of the white people who talked to me on the
subject took it for granted that instruction in the Greek, Latin, and modern languages would
be one of the main features of our curriculum. I heard no one oppose what he thought our course
of study was to embrace. In fact, there are many white people in the South at the present time
who do not know that instruction in the dead languages is not given at the Tuskegee Institute.
In further proof of what I have stated, if one will go through the catalogue of the schools
maintained by the states for Negro people, and managed by Southern white people, he will find
in almost every case that instruction in the higher branches is given with the consent and
approval of white officials. This was true as far back as 1880. It is not unusual to meet at
this time Southern white people who are as emphatic in their belief in the value of classical
education as a certain element of colored people themselves. In matters relating to civil and
political rights, the breach was broad, and without apparent hope of being bridged; even in
the matter of religion, practically all of the denominations had split on the subject of the
Negro, though I should add that there is now, and always has been, a closer touch and more
cooperation in matters of religion between the white and colored people in the South than is
generally known. But the breach between the white churches in the South and North remains.

In matters of education the difference was much less sharp. The truth is that a large element
in the South had little faith in the efficacy of the higher or any other kind of education
of the Negro. They were indifferent, but did not openly oppose; on the other hand, there has
always been a potent element of white people in all of the Southern states who have stood out
openly and bravely for the education of all the people, regardless of race. This element has
thus far been successful in shaping and leading public opinion, and I think that it will continue
to do so more and more. This statement must not be taken to mean that there is as yet an equitable
division of the school funds, raised by common taxation, between the two races in many sections
of the South, though the Southern states deserve much credit for what has been done. In discussing
the small amount of direct taxes the Negro pays, the fact that he pays tremendous indirect
taxes is often overlooked.

I wish, however, to emphasize the fact that while there was either open antagonism or indifference
in the directions I have named, it was the introduction of industrial training into the Negro's
education that seemed to furnish the first basis for anything like united and sympathetic interest
and action between the two races in the South and between the whites in the North and those
in the South. Aside from its direct benefit to the black race, industrial education has furnished
a basis for mutual faith and cooperation, which has meant more to the South, and to the work
of education, than has been realized.

This was, at the least, something in the way of construction. Many people, I think, fail to
appreciate the difference between the problems now before us and those that existed previous
to the civil war. Slavery presented a problem of destruction; freedom presents a problem of
construction.

From its first inception the white people of the South had faith in the theory of industrial
education, because they had noted, what was not unnatural, that a large element of the colored
people at first interpreted freedom to mean freedom from work with the hands. They naturally
had not learned to appreciate the fact that they had been WORKED, and that one of the great
lessons for freemen to learn is to WORK. They had not learned the vast difference between WORKING
and BEING WORKED. The white people saw in the movement to teach the Negro youth the dignity,
beauty, and civilizing power of all honorable labor with the hands something that would lead
the Negro into his new life of freedom gradually and sensibly, and prevent his going from one
extreme of life to the other too suddenly. Furthermore, industrial education appealed directly
to the individual and community interest of the white people. They saw at once that intelligence
coupled with skill would add wealth to the community and to the state, in which both races
would have an added share. Crude labor in the days of slavery, they believed, could be handled
and made in a degree profitable, but ignorant and unskilled labor in a state of freedom could
not be made so. Practically every white man in the South was interested in agricultural or
in mechanical or in some form of manual labor; every white man was interested in all that related
to the home life,--the cooking and serving of food, laundering, dairying, poultry-raising,
and housekeeping in general. There was no family whose interest in intelligent and skillful
nursing was not now and then quickened by the presence of a trained nurse. As already stated,
there was general appreciation of the fact that the industrial education of the black people
had direct, vital, and practical bearing upon the life of each white family in the South; while
there was no such appreciation of the results of mere literary training. If a black man became
a lawyer, a doctor, a minister, or an ordinary teacher, his professional duties would not ordinarily
bring him in touch with the life of the white portion of the community, but rather confine
him almost exclusively to his own race. While purely literary or professional education was
not opposed by the white population, it was something in which they found little or no interest,
beyond a confused hope that it would result in producing a higher and a better type of Negro
manhood. The minute it was seen that through industrial education the Negro youth was not only
studying chemistry, but also how to apply the knowledge of chemistry to the enrichment of the
soil, or to cooking, or to dairying, and that the student was being taught not only geometry
and physics, but their application to blacksmithing, brickmaking, farming, and what not, then
there began to appear for the first time a common bond between the two races and cooperation
between North and South.

One of the most interesting and valuable instances of the kind that I know of is presented
in the case of Mr. George W. Carver, one of our instructors in agriculture at Tuskegee Institute.
For some time it has been his custom to prepare articles containing information concerning
the conditions of local crops, and warning the farmers against the ravages of certain insects
and diseases. The local white papers are always glad to publish these articles, and they are
read by white and colored farmers.

Some months ago a white land-holder in Montgomery County asked Mr. Carver to go through his
farm with him for the purpose of inspecting it. While doing so Mr. Carver discovered traces
of what he thought was a valuable mineral deposit, used in making a certain kind of paint.
The interests of the land-owner and the agricultural instructor at once became mutual. Specimens
of the deposits were taken to the laboratories of the Tuskegee Institute and analyzed by Mr.
Carver. In due time the land-owner received a report of the analysis, together with a statement
showing the commercial value and application of the mineral. I shall not go through the whole
interesting story, except to say that a stock company, composed of some of the best white people
in Alabama, has been organized, and is now preparing to build a factory for the purpose of
putting their product on the market. I hardly need to add that Mr. Carver has been freely consulted
at every step, and his services generously recognized in the organization of the concern. When
the company was being formed the following testimonial, among others, was embodied in the printed
copy of the circular:--

"George W. Carver, Director of the Department of Agriculture, Tuskegee, Alabama, says:--

"'The pigment is an ochreous clay. Its value as a paint is due to the presence of ferric oxide,
of which it contains more than any of the French, Australian, American, Irish, or Welsh ochres.
Ferric oxides have long been recognized as the essential constituents of such paints as Venetian
red, Turkish red, oxide red, Indian red, and scarlet. They are most desirable, being quite
permanent when exposed to light and air. As a stain they are most valuable.'"

In further proof of what I wish to emphasize, I think I am safe in saying that the work of
the Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute, under the late General S. C. Armstrong, was
the first to receive any kind of recognition and hearty sympathy from the Southern white people,
and General Armstrong was perhaps the first Northern educator of Negroes who won the confidence
and cooperation of the white South. The effects of General Armstrong's introduction of industrial
education at Hampton, and its extension to the Tuskegee Institute in the far South, are now
actively and helpfully apparent in the splendid work being accomplished for the whole South
by the Southern Education Board, with Mr. Robert C. Ogden at its head, and by the General Education
Board, with Mr. William H. Baldwin, Jr., as its president. Without the introduction of manual
training it is doubtful whether such work as is now being wrought through these two boards
for both races in the South could have been possible within a quarter of a century to come.
Later on in the history of our country it will be recognized and appreciated that the far-reaching
and statesman-like efforts of these two boards for general education in the South, under the
guidance of the two gentlemen named, and with the cooperation and assistance of such men as
Mr. George Foster Peabody, Dr. Wallace Buttrick, Mr. John D. Rockefeller, of the North, and
Mr. Edgar Gardner Murphy, Chancellor Hill, Dr. Alderman, Dr. McIver, Dr. Dabney, and others
of the South, will have furnished the material for one of the brightest and most encouraging
chapters in the history of our country. The fact that we have reached the point where men and
women who were so far apart twenty years ago can meet in the South and discuss freely from
the same platform questions relating to the industrial, educational, political, moral, and
religious development of the two races marks a great step in advance. It is true that as yet
the Negro has not been invited to share in these discussions.

Aside from the reasons I have given showing why the South favored industrial education, coupled
with intellectual and moral training, many of the whites saw, for example, that the Negroes
who were master carpenters and contractors, under the guidance of their owners, could become
still greater factors in the development of the South if their children were not suddenly removed
from the atmosphere and occupations of their fathers, and if they could be taught to use the
thing in hand as a foundation for higher growth. Many of the white people were wise enough
to see that such education would enable some of the Negro youths to become more skillful carpenters
and contractors, and that if they laid an economic foundation in this way in their generation,
they would be laying a foundation for a more abstract education of their children in the future.

Again, a large element of people at the South favored manual training for the Negro because
they were wise enough to see that the South was largely free from the restrictive influences
of the Northern trades unions, and that such organizations would secure little hold in the
South so long as the Negro kept abreast in intelligence and skill with the same class of people
elsewhere. Many realized that the South would be tying itself to a body of death if it did
not help the Negro up. In this connection I want to call attention to the fact that the official
records show that within one year about one million foreigners came into the United States.
Notwithstanding this number, practically none went into the Southern states; to be more exact,
the records show that in 1892 only 2278 all told went into the states of Alabama, Arkansas,
Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. One
ship sometimes brings as many to New York. Various reasons are given to explain why these foreigners
systematically avoid the South. One is that the climate is so hot; and another is that they
do not like the restrictions thrown about the ballot; and still another is the presence of
the Negro is so large numbers. Whatever the true reason is, the fact remains that foreigners
avoid the South, and the South is more and more realizing that it cannot keep pace with the
progress being made in other parts of the country if a third of its population is ignorant
and without skill.

The South must frankly face this truth, that for a long period it must depend upon the black
man to do for it what the foreigner is now doing for the great West. If, by reason of his skill
and knowledge, one man in Iowa learns to produce as much corn in a season as four men can produce
in Alabama, it requires little reasoning to see that Alabama will buy most of her corn from Iowa.

Another interesting result of the introduction of industrial education for the Negro has been
its influence upon the white people of the South, and, I believe, upon the whites of the North
as well. This phase of it has proved of interest in making hand training a conciliatory element
between the races.

In 1883 I was delivering an address on industrial education before the colored State Teachers'
Association of one of our Southern states. When I had finished, some of the teachers began
to ask the State Superintendent of Education, who was on the programme, some questions about
the subject. He politely but firmly stopped the questions by stating that he knew absolutely
nothing about industrial training, and had never heard it discussed before. At that time there
was no such education being given at any white institution in that state. With one or two exceptions
this case will illustrate what was true of all the Southern states. A careful investigation
of the subject will show that it was not until after industrial education was started among
the colored people, and its value proved, that it was taken up by the Southern white people.

Manual training or industrial and technical schools for the whites have, for the most part,
been established under state auspices, and are at this time chiefly maintained by the states.
An investigation would also show that in securing money from the state legislatures for the
purpose of introducing hand work, one of the main arguments used was the existence and success
of industrial training among the Negroes. It was often argued that the white boys and girls
would be left behind unless they had the opportunities for securing the same kind of training
that was being given the colored people. Although it is, I think, not generally known, it is
a fact that since the idea of industrial or technical education for white people took root
within the last few years, much more money is spent annually for such education for the whites
than for the colored people. Any one who has not looked into the subject will be surprised
to find how thorough and high grade the work is. Take, for example, the state of Georgia, and
it will be found that several times as much is being spent at the Industrial College for white
girls at Milledgeville, and at the technical school for whites at Atlanta, as is being spent
in the whole state for the industrial education of Negro youths. I have met no Southern white
educators who have not been generous in their praise of the Negro schools for taking the initiative
in hand training. This fact has again served to create in matters relating to education a bond
of sympathy between the two races in the South. Referring again to the influence of industrial
training for the Negro in education, in the Northern states I find, while writing this article,
the following announcement in the advertisement of what is perhaps the most high-priced and
exclusive girls' seminary in Massachusetts:--

"In planning a system of education for young ladies, with the view of fitting them for the
greatest usefulness in life, the idea was conceived of supplementing the purely intellectual
work by a practical training in the art of home management and its related subjects.

"It was the first school of high literary grade to introduce courses in Domestic Science into
the regular curriculum.

"The results were so gratifying as to lead to the equipment of Experiment Hall, a special building,
fitted for the purpose of studying the principles of Applied Housekeeping. Here the girls do
the actual work of cooking, marketing, arranging menus, and attend to all the affairs of a
well-arranged household.

"Courses are arranged also in sewing, dressmaking, and millinery; they are conducted on a similarly
practical basis, and equip the student with a thorough knowledge of the subject."

A dozen years ago I do not believe that any such announcement would have been made.

Beginning with the year 1877, the Negro in the South lost practically all political control;
that is to say, as early as 1885 the Negro scarcely had any members of his race in the national
Congress or state legislatures, and long before this date had ceased to hold state offices.
This was true, notwithstanding the protests and fervent oratory of such strong race leaders
as Frederick Douglass, B. K. Bruce, John R. Lynch, P. B. S. Pinchback, and John M. Langston,
with a host of others. When Frederick Douglass, the greatest man that the race has produced,
died in 1895, it is safe to say that the Negro in the Southern states, with here and there
a few exceptions, had practically no political control or political influence, except in sending
delegates to national conventions, or in holding a few Federal positions by appointment. It
became evident to many of the wise Negroes that the race would have to depend for its success
in the future less upon political agitations and the opportunity of holding office, and more
upon something more tangible and substantial. It was at this period in the Negro's development,
when the distance between the races was greatest, and the spirit and ambition of the colored
people most depressed, that the idea of industrial or business development was introduced and
began to be made prominent. It did not take the more level-headed members of the race long
to see that while the Negro in the South was surrounded by many difficulties, there was practically
no line drawn and little race discrimination in the world of commerce, banking, storekeeping,
manufacturing, and the skilled trades, and in agriculture, and that in this lay his great opportunity.
They understood that, while the whites might object to a Negro's being a postmaster, they would
not object to his being the president of a bank, and in the latter occupation they would give
him assistance and encouragement. The colored people were quick to see that while the negro
would not be invited as a rule to attend the white man's prayer-meeting, he would be invited
every time to attend the stockholders' meeting of a business concern in which he had an interest
and that he could buy property in practically any portion of the South where the white man
could buy it. The white citizens were all the more willing to encourage the Negro in this economic
or industrial development, because they saw that the prosperity of the Negro meant also the
prosperity of the white man. They saw, too, that when a Negro became the owner of a home and
was a taxpayer, having a regular trade or other occupation, he at once became a conservative
and safe citizen and voter; one who would consider the interests of his whole community before
casting his ballot; and, further, one whose ballot could not be purchased.

One case in point is that of the twenty-eight teachers at our school in Tuskegee who applied
for life-voting certificates under the new constitution of Alabama, not one was refused registration;
and if I may be forgiven a personal reference, in my own case, the Board of Registers were
kind enough to send me a special request to the effect that they wished me not to fail to register
as a life voter. I do not wish to convey the impression that all worthy colored people have
been registered in Alabama, because there have been many inexcusable and unlawful omissions;
but, with few exceptions, the 2700 who have been registered represent the best Negroes in the
state.

Though in some parts of the country he is now misunderstood, I believe that the time is going
to come when matters can be weighed soberly, and when the whole people are going to see that
president Roosevelt is, and has been from the first, in line with this policy,--that of encouraging
the colored people who by industry and economy have won their way into the confidence and respect
of their neighbors. Both before and since he became President I have had many conversations
with him, and at all times I have found him enthusiastic over the plan that I have described.

The growth of the race in industrial and business directions within the last few years cannot
perhaps be better illustrated than by the fact that what is now the largest secular national
organization among the colored people is the National Negro Business League. This organization
brings together annually hundreds of men and women who have worked their way up from the bottom
to the point where they are now in some cases bankers, merchants, manufacturers, planters,
etc. The sight of this body of men and women would surprise a large part of American citizens
who do not really know the better side of the Negro's life.

It ought to be stated frankly here that at first, and for several years after the introduction
of industrial training at such educational centres as Hampton and Tuskegee, there was opposition
from colored people, and from portions of those Northern white people engaged in educational
and missionary work among the colored people in the South. Most of those who manifested such
opposition were actuated by the highest and most honest motives. From the first the rank and
file of the blacks were quick to see the advantages of industrial training, as is shown by
the fact that industrial schools have always been overcrowded. Opposition to industrial training
was based largely on the old and narrow ground that it was something that the Southern white
people favored, and therefore must be against the interests of the Negro. Again, others opposed
it because they feared that it meant the abandonment of all political privileges, and the higher
or classical education of the race. They feared that the final outcome would be the materialization
of the Negro, and the smothering of his spiritual and aesthetic nature. Others felt that industrial
education had for its object the limitation of the Negro's development, and the branding him
for all time as a special hand-working class.

Now that enough time has elapsed for those who opposed it to see that it meant none of these
things, opposition, except from a very few of the colored people living in Boston and Washington,
has ceased, and this system has the enthusiastic support of the Negroes and of most of the
whites who formerly opposed it. All are beginning to see that it was never meant that ALL Negro
youths should secure industrial education, any more than it is meant that ALL white youths
should pass through the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or the Amherst Agricultural
College, to the exclusion of such training as is given at Harvard, Yale, or Dartmouth; but
that in a peculiar sense a large proportion of the Negro youths needed to have that education
which would enable them to secure an economic foundation, without which no people can succeed
in any of the higher walks of life.

It is because of the fact that the Tuskegee Institute began at the bottom, with work in the
soil, in wood, in iron, in leather, that it has now developed to the point where it is able
to furnish employment as teachers to twenty-eight Negro graduates of the best colleges in the
country. This is about three times as many Negro college graduates as any other institution
in the United States for the education of colored people employs, the total number of officers
and instructors at Tuskegee being about one hundred and ten.

Those who once opposed this see now that while the Negro youth who becomes skilled in agriculture
and a successful farmer may not be able himself to pass through a purely literary college,
he is laying the foundation for his children and grandchildren to do it if desirable. Industrial
education in this generation is contributing in the highest degree to make what is called higher
education a success. It is now realized that in so far as the race has intelligent and skillful
producers, the greater will be the success of the minister, lawyer, doctor, and teacher. Opposition
has melted away, too, because all men now see that it will take a long time to "materialize"
a race, millions of which hold neither houses nor railroads, nor bank stocks, nor factories,
nor coal and gold mines.

Another reason for the growth of a better understanding of the objects and influence of industrial
training is the fact, as before stated, that it has been taken up with such interest and activity
by the Southern whites, and that it has been established at such universities as Cornell in
the East, and in practically all of the state colleges of the great West.

It is now seen that the result of such education will be to help the black man to make for
himself an independent place in our great American life. It was largely the poverty of the
Negro that made him the prey of designing politicians immediately after the war; and wherever
poverty and lack of industry exist to-day, one does not find in him that deep spiritual life
which the race must in the future possess in a higher degree.

To those who still express the fear that perhaps too much stress is put upon industrial education
for the Negro I would add that I should emphasize the same kind of training for any people,
whether black or white, in the same stage of development as the masses of the colored people.

For a number of years this country has looked to Germany for much in the way of education,
and a large number of our brightest men and women are sent there each year. The official reports
show that in Saxony, Germany, alone, there are 287 industrial schools, or one such school to
every 14,641 people. This is true of a people who have back of them centuries of wealth and
culture. In the South I am safe in saying that there is not more than one effective industrial
school for every 400,000 colored people.

A recent dispatch from Germany says that the German Emperor has had a kitchen fitted up in
the palace for the single purpose of having his daughter taught cooking. If all classes and
nationalities, who are in most cases thousands of years ahead of the Negro in the arts of civilization,
continue their interest in industrial training, I cannot understand how any reasonable person
can object to such education for a large part of a people who are in the poverty-stricken condition
that is true of a large element of my race, especially when such hand training is combined,
as it should be, with the best education of head and heart.

THE NEGRO IN THE REGULAR ARMY by Oswald Garrison Villard

When the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts Regiment stormed Fort Wagner July 18, 1863, only to be
driven back with the loss of its colonel, Robert Gould Shaw, and many of its rank and file,
it established for all time the fact that the colored soldier would fight and fight well. This
had already been demonstrated in Louisiana by colored regiments under the command of General
Godfrey Weitzel in the attack upon Port Hudson on May 27 of the same year. On that occasion
regiments composed for the greater part of raw recruits, plantation hands with centuries of
servitude under the lash behind them, stormed trenches and dashed upon cold steel in the hands
of their former masters and oppressors. After that there was no more talk in the portion of
the country of the "natural cowardice" of the negro. But the heroic qualities of Colonel Shaw,
his social prominence and that of his officers, and the comparative nearness of their battlefield
to the North, attracted greater and more lasting attention to the daring and bravery of their
exploit, until it finally became fixed in many minds as the first real baptism of fire of colored
American soldiers.

After Wagner the recruiting of colored regiments, originally opposed by both North and South,
went on apace, particularly under the Federal government, which organized no less than one
hundred and fifty-four, designated as "United States Colored Troops." Colonel Shaw's raising
of a colored regiment aroused quite as much comment in the North because of the race prejudice
it defied, as because of the novelty of the new organization. General Weitzel tendered his
resignation the instant General B. F. Butler assigned black soldiers to his brigade, and was
with difficulty induced to serve on. His change of mind was a wise one, and not only because
these colored soldiers covered him with glory at Port Hudson. It was his good fortune to be
the central figure in one of the dramatic incidents of a war that must ever rank among the
most thrilling and tragic the world has seen. The black cavalrymen who rode into Richmond,
the first of the Northern troops to enter the Southern capital, went in waving their sabres
and crying to the negroes on the sidewalks, "We have come to set you free!" They were from
the division of Godfrey Weitzel, and American history has no more stirring moment.

In the South, notwithstanding the raising in 1861 of a colored Confederate regiment by Governor
Moore of Louisiana (a magnificent body of educated colored men which afterwards became the
First Louisiana National Guards of General Weitzel's brigade and the first colored regiment
in the Federal Army), the feeling against negro troops was insurmountable until the last days
of the struggle. Then no straw could be overlooked. When, in December, 1863, Major-General
Patrick R. Cleburne, who commanded a division of Hardee's Corps of the Confederate Army of
the Tennessee, sent in a paper in which the employment of the slaves as soldiers of the South
was vigorously advocated, Jefferson Davis indorsed it with the statement, "I deem it inexpedient
at this time to give publicity to this paper, and request that it be suppressed." General Cleburne
urged that "freedom within a reasonable time" be granted to every slave remaining true to the
Confederacy, and was moved to this action by the valor of the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts, saying,
"If they [the negroes] can be made to face and fight bravely against their former masters,
how much more probable is it that with the allurement of a higher reward, and led by those
masters, they would submit to discipline and face dangers?"

With the ending of the civil war the regular army of the United States was reorganized upon
a peace footing by an act of Congress dated July 28, 1866. In just recognition of the bravery
of the colored volunteers six regiments, the Ninth and Tenth Cavalry and the Thirty-eighth,
Thirty-ninth, Fortieth, and Forth-first Infantry, were designated as colored regiments. When
the army was again reduced in 1869, the Thirty-eighth and Forty-first became the Twenty-fourth
Infantry, and the Thirty-ninth and Fortieth became the Twenty-fifth. This left four colored
regiments in the regular army as it was constituted from 1870 until 1901. There has never been
a colored artillery organization in the regular service.

To these new regiments came a motley mixture of veterans of volunteer organizations, newly
released slaves, and some freedmen of several years' standing but without military experience.
They were eager to learn, and soon showed the same traits which distinguish the black regiments
to-day,--loyalty to their officers and to their colors, sobriety and courage, and a notable
pride in the efficiency of their corps. But if ever officers had to "father and mother" their
soldiers they were the company officers of these regiments. The captains in particular had
to be bankers, secretaries, advisers, and judges for their men. As Lieutenant Grote Hutcheson
has stated it, "The men knew nothing, and the non-commissioned officers but little more. From
the very circumstances of their preceding life it could not be otherwise. They had no independence,
no self-reliance, not a thought except for the present, and were filled with superstition."
Yet the officers were determined to prove the wisdom of the experiment. To do this they were
forced to give their own attention to the minutest details of military administration, and
to act as non-commissioned officers. The total lack of education among the men necessitated
an enormous amount of writing by the officers. In the Ninth Cavalry only one man was found
able to write well enough to be sergeant-major, and not for several years was it possible to
obtain troop clerks. When the Tenth Cavalry was being recruited an officer was sent to Philadelphia
with the express purpose of picking up educated colored men for the non-commissioned positions.
Difficult as the tasks of the officers thus were, most of them felt well repaid for their unusual
labors by the affectionate regard in which they were held by their soldiers, and by the never-failing
good humor with which the latter went about their duties.

As the years passed the character of the colored soldiers naturally changed. In place of the
war veterans, and of the men whose chains of servitude had just been struck off, came young
men from the North and East with more education and more self-reliance. They depended less
upon their officers, both in the barracks and in the field, yet they reverenced and cared for
them as much as did their predecessors. Their greatest faults then as now were gambling and
quarreling. On the other hand, the negro regiments speedily became favorably known because
of greater sobriety and of fewer desertions than among the white soldiers. It was the Ninth
Cavalry which a few years ago astonished the army by reporting not a single desertion in twelve
months, an unheard-of and perhaps undreamed-of record. In all that goes to make a good soldier,
in drill, fidelity, and smartness, the negro regular from the first took front rank.

Nor was there ever any lack of the fighting quality which had gratified the nation at Fort
Wagner, or at Fort Blakely, Ala., where the Seventy-third Colored Infantry, under Colonel Henry
C. Merriam, stormed the enemy's works, in advance of orders, in one of the last actions of
the war. It soon fell to the lot of the Ninth and Tenth Cavalry to prove that the negroes could
do as well under fire in the Indian wars as they had when fighting for the freedom of their
race. While the Twenty-fourth and Twenty-fifth Infantry had merely garrison work to do, the
Ninth and Tenth Cavalry scouted for years against hostile Indians in Texas, New Mexico, Colorado,
and Kansas, always acquitting themselves honorably. In September, 1868, a little over two years
after their organization, three troops of the Ninth Cavalry did well in an action against Indians
at Horsehead Hills, Texas. When General George A. Forsyth and his detachment of fifty scouts
were surrounded and "corralled" by seven hundred Indians on an island in the Republican River,
it was the troop of Captain Louis H. Carpenter, of the Tenth Cavalry, which first came to their
rescue. Similarly when Major T. T. Thornburg's command was nearly wiped out by Utes in 1879,
it was Captain F. S. Dodge's Troop D of the Ninth which succeeded in reaching it in time, losing
all its horses in so doing. This regiment alone took part in sixty Indian fights between 1868
and 1890, during which time it lost three officers and twenty-seven men killed, and had three
officers and thirty-four men wounded. The Tenth Cavalry's casualties were also heavy during
this same period, and it fought for many years over a most difficult country in New Mexico
and Arizona, taking a conspicuous part in running to earth Geronimo's and Victoria's bands
of Apaches.

On one of these campaigns Lieutenant Powhatan H. Clarke gave effective proof of the affection
which the officers of colored regiments have for their men. In the fight in the Pineto Mountains
with a portion of Geronimo's forces this young Southerner risked his life to save a colored
sergeant who had fallen wounded in an open space where both he and his rescuer were easy marks
for the Apaches. For this gallant act Lieutenant Clarke rightly received a medal of honor.
The Twenty-fourth Infantry, on the other hand, has contributed a striking instance of the devotion
of colored soldiers to their officers. When Major Joseph W. Wham, paymaster, was attacked by
robbers on May 11, 1889, his colored escort fought with such gallantry that every one of the
soldiers was awarded a medal of honor or a certificate of merit. Some of them stood their ground
although badly wounded, notably Sergeant Benjamin Brown, who continued to fight and to encourage
his men until shot through both arms. In a fight against Apaches in the Cuchilo Negro Mountains
of New Mexico on August 16, 1881, Moses Williams, First Sergeant of Troop I, Ninth Cavalry,
displayed such gallantry that he was given a medal of honor by common consent. When the only
officer with the detachment, Lieutenant Gustavus Valois, had his horse shot under him, and
was cut off from his men, Sergeant Williams promptly rallied the detachment, and conducted
the right flank in a running fight for several hours with such coolness, bravery, and unflinching
devotion to duty that he undoubtedly saved the lives of at least three comrades. His action
in standing by and rescuing Lieutenant Valois was the more noteworthy because he and his men
were subjected, in an exposed position, to a heavy fire from a large number of Indians. For
splendid gallantry against Indians, while serving as sergeant of Troop K, Ninth Cavalry, on
May 14, 1880, and August 12, 1881, George Jordan was also given a medal of honor. Five of the
medal of honor men now in the service are colored soldiers, while fifteen others have "certificates
of merit" also awarded for conspicuous deeds of bravery.

It was not until the battle of Santiago, however, that the bulk of the American people realized
that the standing army comprised regiments composed wholly of black men. Up to that time only
one company of colored soldiers had served at a post east of the Mississippi. Even Major, later
Brigadier-General, Guy V. Henry's gallop to the rescue of the Seventh Cavalry on December 30,
1890, with four troops of the Ninth Cavalry, attracted but little attention. This feat was
the more remarkable because Major Henry's command had just completed a march of more than one
hundred miles in twenty-four hours. But in the battle at Santiago, the four colored regiments
won praise from all sides, particularly for their advance upon Kettle Hill, in which the Rough
Riders also figured. From the very beginning of the movement of the army after its landing,
the negro troops were in the front of the fighting, and contributed largely to the successful
result. Although they suffered heavy losses, especially in officers, the men fought with the
same gallantry they had displayed on the plains, as is attested by the honors awarded. In every
company there were instances of personal gallantry. The first sergeants especially lived up
to the responsibilities placed upon them. The color sergeant of the Tenth Cavalry, Adam Houston,
bore to the front not only his own flags, but those of the Third Cavalry when the latter's
color sergeant was shot down. In several emergencies where troops or companies lost their white
officers, the senior sergeants took command and handled their men in a faultless manner, notably
in the Tenth Cavalry.

Indeed, the conduct of these men has done much to dispel the old belief that colored soldiers
will fight only when they have efficient white officers. This may well have been true at one
period of the civil war when the colored race as a whole had never even had the responsibilities
attaching to free men. It is growing less and less true as time passes and better educated
men enter the ranks. In recognition of their achievements at Santiago a number of these black
non-commissioned officers were made commissioned officers in several of the so-called "immune"
regiments of United States Volunteers raised in July, 1898. None of these organizations were
in service long enough to become really efficient, and a few were never properly disciplined.
Nevertheless, a majority of the officers promoted from the colored regulars bore themselves
well under exceedingly trying circumstances. Some of them, and a number of regular sergeants
and corporals who had succeeded to their former places, were made lieutenants and captains
in the Forty-eighth and Forty-ninth Volunteer Infantry, which served in the Philippines for
two years, and to which we shall recur later.

At Santiago the characteristic cheerfulness of the negro soldiers was as striking as their
bravery. In his little book called The Nth Foot In War, Lieutenant M. B. Stewart says of them:--

"The negro troops were in a high good humor. They had made the charge of the day; they had
fought with a dash and vigor which forever established their reputation as fighters, and which
would carry them down in the pages of history. To have heard them that night no one would have
ever thought that they had lived for twelve mortal hours under a galling fire. They were laughing
and joking over the events of the day, in the same manner they would have done had they been
returning from a picnic.

"'Golly,' laughed a six-foot sergeant, 'dere was music in de air sho' nuff. Dat lead was flying
around in sheets, I tell you. I seen a buzzard flying around in front of our line, and I says
to myself, "Buzzard, you is in a mighty dangerous position. You better git out uf dat, 'cause
dey ain't room out dar for a muskeeter."' Another remarked, 'Say, did you see dat man Brown;
pity dat man been killed. He'd a been a corporal, sho.'

"In the utter exhaustion of the moment all race and social distinctions were forgotten. Officers
lay down among their men and slept like logs. The negro troops sought out soft places along
the sides of the road and lay down with their white comrades. There was a little commotion
among the latter, and an officer was heard to yell: 'Here, you man, take your feet off my stomach.
Well, I'll be damned if it ain't a nigger. Get out, you black rascal.' As the commotion subsided,
the negro was heard to remark, 'Well, if dat ain't de mos' particler man I ever see.'"

Characteristic also is a story of the negro cavalryman who, returning to the rear, said to
some troops anxious to get to the front: "Dat's all right, gemmen; don't git in a sweat; dere's
lots of it lef' for you. You wants to look out for dese yere sharpshooters, for dey is mighty
careless with dere weapons, and dey is specially careless when dey is officers aroun'."

As soon as the army settled down in the trenches before Santiago, smuggled musical instruments--guitars,
banjos, mouth organs, and what not--appeared among the negro troops as if by magic, and they
were ever in use. It was at once a scene of cheerfulness and gayety, and the officers had their
usual trouble in making the men go to sleep instead of spending the night in talking, singing,
and gaming. In the peaceful camp of the Third Alabama, in that state, the scenes were similar.
There was always "a steady hum of laughter and talk, dance, song, shout, and the twang of musical
instruments." It was "a scene full of life and fun, of jostling, scuffling, and racing, of
clown performances and cake-walks, of impromptu minstrelsy, speech-making, and preaching, of
deviling, guying, and fighting, both real and mimic." The colonel found great difficulty in
getting men to work alone. Two would volunteer for any service. "Colonel," said a visitor to
the camp, "your sentinels are sociable fellows. I saw No. 5 over at the end of his beat entertaining
No. 6 with some fancy manual of arms. Afterwards, with equal amiability, No. 6 executed a most
artistic cake-walk for his friend." It must be remembered here that this colonel's men were
typical Southern negroes, literate and illiterate, and all new to military life.

In addition to the Forty-eighth and Forty-ninth Volunteers, the four regular colored regiments
have served in the Philippines. Here the work was particularly trying and the temptations to
misconduct many. The Filipino women were especially attractive to the men because of their
color, and it is on record that several soldiers were tempted from their allegiance to the
United States. Two of these, whose sympathy and liking for the Filipinos overcame their judgment,
paid the full penalty of desertion, being hanged by their former comrades. Both belonged to
the Ninth Cavalry. On the other hand, in a remarkable order issued by General A. S. Burt in
relinquishing command of the Twenty-fifth Infantry, on April 17, 1902, on his promotion to
brigadier-general, he was able to quote the Inspector-General of the army as saying: "The Twenty-fifth
Infantry is the best regiment I have seen in the Philippines." General Burt praised highly
the excellent conduct of the enlisted men while in the Archipelago, which proved to his mind
that the American negroes are "as law-abiding as any race in the world."

Three of General Burt's sergeants, Russell, McBryar, and Hoffman, were promoted to the Forty-eighth
and Forty-ninth Volunteers, and served, as lieutenants, for several months with their old regiment,
the Twenty-fifth, until the arrival of their new regiments in Manila. During this time they
were frequently under fire. General Burt bore high testimony to their soldierly bearing, their
capacity and ability, and expressed great regret when he was forced to let them go. McBryar
had won a medal of honor for gallantry against Indians in Arizona in 1890. In the Forty-ninth
Volunteers, Company L, composed wholly of colored men, and commanded by Captain Edward L. Baker,
a colored veteran of Santiago, who had served for seventeen years in the Ninth and Tenth Cavalry
and in the Tenth "Immunes," made a wonderful record. According to a statement which was widely
published at the time and never denied, this company had on its rolls during a period of twelve
months one hundred and six men who were fit for duty at all times and never lost a day on account
of sickness. No white company remotely approached this record. More extraordinary still is
the fact that during this same period not one of these men ever went before a court-martial.
This is surely a striking illustration of what can be done by colored officers. It is noticeable,
too, that neither the officers nor the men of any colored regiment have figured in the charges
and counter-charges arising out of the use of the water-torture, except one man who at the
time of his offense was not with his regiment. The Forty-ninth Volunteers was a very unhappy
regiment during its brief life, but its troubles were largely due to its white officers. One
of these, a major, was dismissed for misconduct, and his place was filled by the senior captain,
a colored man. Several other white officers and one colored captain got into serious trouble,
the last being dismissed. The Forty-eighth was, on the contrary, a contented organization in
which the colored officers were treated in a kindly and courteous manner by their white associates
and superiors. The two regiments afford a striking illustration of Napoleon's saying, "There
are no such things as poor regiments,--only poor colonels."

The negro regiment unquestionably calls for different treatment from that which would be accorded
to white troops, just as the Indian troops of King Edward's army require different handling
from that called for in the case of the King's Royal Rifles. Yet as fighting machines, the
Indian soldiers may be the equals if not the superiors of the Englishmen. Major Robert L. Bullard,
Twenty-eighth United States Infantry who commanded the colored Third Alabama Volunteers, already
referred to, during the war with Spain, discusses in a remarkable paper published in the United
Service Magazine for July, 1901, the differences between negro and white soldiers. They are
so great, he says, as to require the military commander to treat the negro as a different species.
He must fit his methods of instruction and discipline to the characteristics of the race. Major
Bullard adds that "mistakes, injustices, and failures would result from his making the same
rules and methods apply to the two races without regard to how far apart set by nature or separated
by evolution." But Major Bullard would unquestionably concede that these differences in no
way require a treatment of the negro soldier which implies that he is an inferior being and
which ever impresses upon him his inferiority. Yet this seems to have been the case in the
Forty-ninth United States Volunteers.

In the regular army, as well as in the volunteers, officers have frequently appealed with success
to the negroes' pride of race, and have urged them on to greater efficiency and better behavior
by reminding them that they have the honor of their people in their hands. To such appeals
there is ever a prompt response. One of the most effective ways of disciplining an offender
is by holding him up to the ridicule of his fellows. The desire of the colored soldiers to
amuse and to be amused gives the officers an easy way of obtaining a hold upon them and their
affections. The regimental rifle team, the baseball nine, the minstrel troupe, and the regimental
band offer positions of importance for which the competition is much keener than in the white
regiments. There is also a friendly rivalry between companies, which is much missed elsewhere
in the service. The negroes are natural horsemen and riders. It is a pleasure to them to take
care of their mounts, and a matter of pride to keep their animals in good condition. Personally
they are clean and neat, and they take the greatest possible pride in their uniforms. In no
white regiment is there a similar feeling. With the negroes the canteen question is of comparatively
slight importance, not only because the men can be more easily amused within their barracks,
but because their appetite for drink is by no means as strong as that of the white men. Their
sociability is astonishing. They would rather sit up and tell stories and crack jokes than
go to bed, no matter how hard the day has been.

The dark sides are, that the negro soldiers easily turn merited punishment into martyrdom,
that their gambling propensities are almost beyond control, that their habit of carrying concealed
weapons is incurable, and that there is danger of serious fighting when they fall out with
one another. Frequent failure to act honorably toward a comrade in some trifling matter is
apt to cause scuffling and fighting until the men are well disciplined. Women are another cause
of quarrels, and are at all times a potent temptation to misconduct and neglect of duty. It
is very difficult to impress upon the men the value of government property, and duty which
requires memorizing of orders is always the most difficult to teach. For the study of guard
duty manuals or of tactics they have no natural aptitude. The non-commissioned officers are
of very great importance, and in the regulars they are looked up to and obeyed implicitly,
much more so than is the case with white troops. It is necessary, however, for the officers
to back up the sergeants and corporals very vigorously, even when they are slightly in the
wrong. Then colored men are more easily "rattled" by poor officers than are their white comrades.
There was a striking instance of this two or three years ago when a newly appointed and wholly
untrained white officer lost his head at a post in Texas. His black subordinates, largely recruits,
followed suit, and in carrying out his hysterical orders imperiled many lives in the neighboring
town. Selections for service with colored troops should therefore be most carefully made. Major
Bullard declares that the officer of negro troops "must not only be an officer and a gentleman,
but he must be considerate, patient, laborious, self-sacrificing, a man of affairs, and he
must have knowledge and wisdom in a great lot of things not really military."

If the position of a white officer is a difficult one, that of the colored officer is still
more so. He has not the self-assumed superiority of the white man, naturally feels that he
is on trial, and must worry himself incessantly about his relations to his white comrades of
the shoulder straps. While the United States Navy has hitherto been closed to negroes who aspire
to be officers, the army has pursued a wiser and more just policy. The contrast between the
two services is really remarkable. On almost every war vessel white and black sailors sleep
and live together in crowded quarters without protest or friction. But the negro naval officer
is kept out of the service by hook or by crook for the avowed reason that the cramped quarters
of the wardroom would make association with him intolerable. In the army, on the other hand,
the experiment of mixed regiments has never been tried. A good colored soldier can nevertheless
obtain a commission by going through West Point, or by rising from the ranks, or by being appointed
directly from civil life.

Since the foundation of the Military Academy there have been eighteen colored boys appointed
to West Point, of whom fifteen failed in their preliminary examinations, or were discharged
after entering because of deficiency in studies. Three were graduated and commissioned as second
lieutenants of cavalry, Henry Ossian Flipper, John Hanks Alexander, and Charles Young. Of these,
Lieutenant Flipper was dismissed June 30, 1882, for "conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman."
The other two proved themselves excellent officers, notably Young, who is at this writing a
captain, and a most efficient one, in the Ninth Cavalry, with which he recently served in the
Philippines. Lieutenant Alexander died suddenly in 1894. In announcing his death in a regimental
order his colonel spoke of him in terms of high praise, and did not use the customary stereotyped
phrases of regret. His fellow white officers all had good words for him. There never was more
striking testimony to the discipline and spirit of fairness at West Point than was afforded
by the sight of Cadet Charles Young, who is of very dark complexion, commanding white cadets.
Nothing else has impressed foreign visitors at West Point half so much.

An equally remarkable happening, and one which speaks even more for the democratic spirit in
the army, was the commissioning in 1901 of Sergeant-Major Benjamin O. Davis, Ninth Cavalry,
and of Corporal John E. Green, Twenty-fourth Infantry. Both these men were examined by boards
of white officers, who might easily have excluded them because of color prejudice, in which
case there would have been no appeal from their findings. Lieutenant Davis's former troop commander,
a West Pointer, openly rejoiced at his success, and predicted that he would make an excellent
officer. These are the first two colored men to rise from the ranks, but there will be many
more if the same admirable spirit of fair play continues to rule in the army and is not altered
by outside prejudice. It was thought that there would be a severe strain upon discipline when
a colored officer rose to the rank of captain and to the command of white officers. But in
Captain Young's case his white subordinates seem to have realized that it is the position and
rank that they are compelled to salute and obey, and not the individual. This principle is
at the bottom of all discipline. Only too frequently do subordinates throughout the army have
to remind themselves of this when obeying men for whose social qualities and character they
have neither regard nor respect. During the war with Spain Captain Young commanded a negro
battalion from Ohio, which was pronounced the best drilled organization in the large army assembled
at Camp Alger near Washington. In addition to these officers, Captain John R. Lynch, formerly
a Congressman from Mississippi, and four colored chaplains represent their race on the commissioned
rolls of the army. All of these men are doing well. One colored chaplain was dismissed for
drunkenness in 1894. Beyond this their record is unblemished.

Despite the fairness shown in these appointments, there has been considerable very just criticism
of the War Department for its failure to appoint to the regulars any of the colored officers
who did well in the Forty-eighth and Forty-ninth Volunteers. Every colonel of volunteers was
allowed to designate for examination for appointment to the regular army the best officers
in his regiment. Hundreds of white officers were selected in this way, but not a single colored
officer was given an examination,--not even Lieutenant McBryar, with his medal of honor, or
Captain Baker. Similarly fault has been found with Secretary Root because no new colored regiments
were established under the law of February 2, 1901, increasing the army by five regiments of
infantry, five of cavalry, and a large number of companies of artillery. The excuse most often
heard is that the negroes already have sufficient representation in comparison with the percentage
of negroes to white persons within the borders of the United States. But the sterling characteristics
of the colored soldiers, their loyalty to the service as shown by the statistics of desertion,
and, above all, their splendid service in Cuba, should have entitled them to additional organizations.
To say the least, the decision of the War Department smacks considerably of ingratitude. Nevertheless,
the negro regiments have come to stay, both in the regulars and in the volunteers. The hostilities
of the last five years have dispelled any doubt which may have existed upon this point.

BAXTER'S PROCRUSTES by Charles W. Chesnutt

Baxter's Procrustes is one of the publications of the Bodleian Club. The Bodleian Club is composed
of gentlemen of culture, who are interested in books and book-collecting. It was named, very
obviously, after the famous library of the same name, and not only became in our city a sort
of shrine for local worshipers of fine bindings and rare editions, but was visited occasionally
by pilgrims from afar. The Bodleian has entertained Mark Twain, Joseph Jefferson, and other
literary and histrionic celebrities. It possesses quite a collection of personal mementos of
distinguished authors, among them a paperweight which once belonged to Goethe, a lead pencil
used by Emerson, an autograph letter of Matthew Arnold, and a chip from a tree felled by Mr.
Gladstone. Its library contains a number of rare books, including a fine collection on chess,
of which game several of the members are enthusiastic devotees.

The activities of the club are not, however, confined entirely to books. We have a very handsome
clubhouse, and much taste and discrimination have been exercised in its adornment. There are
many good paintings, including portraits of the various presidents of the club, which adorn
the entrance hall. After books, perhaps the most distinctive feature of the club is our collection
of pipes. In a large rack in the smoking-room--really a superfluity, since smoking is permitted
all over the house--is as complete an assortment of pipes as perhaps exists in the civilized
world. Indeed, it is an unwritten rule of the club that no one is eligible for membership who
cannot produce a new variety of pipe, which is filed with his application for membership, and,
if he passes, deposited with the club collection, he, however, retaining the title in himself.
Once a year, upon the anniversary of the death of Sir Walter Raleigh, who it will be remembered,
first introduced tobacco into England, the full membership of the club, as a rule, turns out.
A large supply of the very best smoking mixture is laid in. At nine o'clock sharp each member
takes his pipe from the rack, fills it with tobacco, and then the whole club, with the president
at the head, all smoking furiously, march in solemn procession from room to room, upstairs
and downstairs, making the tour of the clubhouse and returning to the smoking-room. The president
then delivers an address, and each member is called upon to say something, either by way of
a quotation or an original sentiment, in praise of the virtues of nicotine. This ceremony--facetiously
known as "hitting the pipe"--being thus concluded, the membership pipes are carefully cleaned
out and replaced in the club rack.

As I have said, however, the raison d'etre of the club, and the feature upon which its fame
chiefly rests, is its collection of rare books, and of these by far the most interesting are
its own publications. Even its catalogues are works of art, published in numbered editions,
and sought by libraries and book-collectors. Early in its history it began the occasional publication
of books which should meet the club standard,--books in which emphasis should be laid upon
the qualities that make a book valuable in the eyes of collectors. Of these, age could not,
of course, be imparted, but in the matter of fine and curious bindings, of hand-made linen
papers, of uncut or deckle edges, of wide margins and limited editions, the club could control
its own publications. The matter of contents was, it must be confessed, a less important consideration.
At first it was felt by the publishing committee that nothing but the finest products of the
human mind should be selected for enshrinement in the beautiful volumes which the club should
issue. The length of the work was an important consideration,--long things were not compatible
with wide margins and graceful slenderness. For instance, we brought out Coleridge's Ancient
Mariner, an essay by Emerson, and another by Thoreau. Our Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam was Heron-Allen's
translation of the original MS in the Bodleian Library at Oxford, which, though less poetical
than FitzGerald's, was not so common. Several years ago we began to publish the works of our
own members. Bascom's Essay on Pipes was a very creditable performance. It was published in
a limited edition of one hundred copies, and since it had not previously appeared elsewhere
and was copyrighted by the club, it was sufficiently rare to be valuable for that reason. The
second publication of local origin was Baxter's Procrustes.

I have omitted to say that once or twice a year, at a meeting of which notice has been given,
an auction is held at the Bodleian. The members of the club send in their duplicate copies,
or books they for any reason wish to dispose of, which are auctioned off to the highest bidder.
At these sales, which are well attended, the club's publications have of recent years formed
the leading feature. Three years ago, number three of Bascom's Essay on Pipes sold for fifteen
dollars;--the original cost of publication was one dollar and seventy-five cents. Later in
the evening an uncut copy of the same brought thirty dollars. At the next auction the price
of the cut copy was run up to twenty-five dollars, while the uncut copy was knocked down at
seventy-five dollars. The club had always appreciated the value of uncut copies, but this financial
indorsement enhanced their desirability immensely. This rise in the Essay on Pipes was not
without a sympathetic effect upon all the club publications. The Emerson essay rose from three
dollars to seventeen, and the Thoreau, being by an author less widely read, and, by his own
confession commercially unsuccessful, brought a somewhat higher figure. The prices, thus inflated,
were not permitted to come down appreciably. Since every member of the club possessed one or
more of these valuable editions, they were all manifestly interested in keeping up the price.
The publication, however, which brought the highest prices, and, but for the sober second thought,
might have wrecked the whole system, was Baxter's Procrustes.

Baxter was, perhaps, the most scholarly member of the club. A graduate of Harvard, he had traveled
extensively, had read widely, and while not so enthusiastic a collector as some of us, possessed
as fine a private library as any man of his age in the city. He was about thirty-five when
he joined the club, and apparently some bitter experience--some disappointment in love or ambition--had
left its mark upon his character. With light, curly hair, fair complexion, and gray eyes, one
would have expected Baxter to be genial of temper, with a tendency toward wordiness of speech.
But though he had occasional flashes of humor, his ordinary demeanor was characterized by a
mild cynicism, which, with his gloomy pessimistic philosophy, so foreign to the temperament
that should accompany his physical type, could only be accounted for upon the hypothesis of
some secret sorrow such as I have suggested. What it might be no one knew. He had means and
social position, and was an uncommonly handsome man. The fact that he remained unmarried at
thirty-five furnished some support for the theory of a disappointment in love, though this
the several intimates of Baxter who belonged to the club were not able to verify.

It had occurred to me, in a vague way, that perhaps Baxter might be an unsuccessful author.
That he was a poet we knew very well, and typewritten copies of his verses had occasionally
circulated among us. But Baxter had always expressed such a profound contempt for modern literature,
had always spoken in terms of such unmeasured pity for the slaves of the pen, who were dependent
upon the whim of an undiscriminating public for recognition and a livelihood, that no one of
us had ever suspected him of aspirations toward publication, until, as I have said, it occurred
to me one day that Baxter's attitude with regard to publication might be viewed in the light
of effect as well as of cause--that his scorn of publicity might as easily arise from failure
to achieve it, as his never having published might be due to his preconceived disdain of the
vulgar popularity which one must share with the pugilist or balloonist of the hour.

The notion of publishing Baxter's Procrustes did not emanate from Baxter,--I must do him the
justice to say this. But he had spoken to several of the fellows about the theme of his poem,
until the notion that Baxter was at work upon something fine had become pretty well disseminated
throughout our membership. He would occasionally read brief passages to a small coterie of
friends in the sitting-room or library,--never more than ten lines at once, or to more than
five people at a time,--and these excerpts gave at least a few of us a pretty fair idea of
the motive and scope of the poem. As I, for one, gathered, it was quite along the line of Baxter's
philosophy. Society was the Procrustes which, like the Greek bandit of old, caught every man
born into the world, and endeavored to fit him to some preconceived standard, generally to
the one for which he was least adapted. The world was full of men and women who were merely
square pegs in round holes, and vice versa. Most marriages were unhappy because the contracting
parties were not properly mated. Religion was mostly superstition, science for the most part
sciolism, popular education merely a means of forcing the stupid and repressing the bright,
so that all the youth of the rising generation might conform to the same dull, dead level of
democratic mediocrity. Life would soon become so monotonously uniform and so uniformly monotonous
as to be scarce worth the living.

It was Smith, I think, who first proposed that the club publish Baxter's Procrustes. The poet
himself did not seem enthusiastic when the subject was broached; he demurred for some little
time, protesting that the poem was not worthy of publication. But when it was proposed that
the edition be limited to fifty copies he agreed to consider the proposition. When I suggested,
having in mind my secret theory of Baxter's failure in authorship, that the edition would at
least be in the hands of friends, that it would be difficult for a hostile critic to secure
a copy, and that if it should not achieve success from a literary point of view, the extent
of the failure would be limited to the size of the edition, Baxter was visibly impressed. When
the literary committee at length decided to request formally of Baxter the privilege of publishing
his Procrustes, he consented, with evident reluctance, upon condition that he should supervise
the printing, binding, and delivery of the books, merely submitting to the committee, in advance,
the manuscript, and taking their views in regard to the bookmaking.

The manuscript was duly presented to the literary committee. Baxter having expressed the desire
that the poem be not read aloud at a meeting of the club, as was the custom, since he wished
it to be given to the world clad in suitable garb, the committee went even farther. Having
entire confidence in Baxter's taste and scholarship, they, with great delicacy, refrained from
even reading the manuscript, contenting themselves with Baxter's statement of the general theme
and the topics grouped under it. The details of the bookmaking, however, were gone into thoroughly.
The paper was to be of hand-made linen, from the Kelmscott Mills; the type black-letter, with
rubricated initials. The cover, which was Baxter's own selection, was to be of dark green morocco,
with a cap-and-bells border in red inlays, and doublures of maroon morocco with a blind-tooled
design. Baxter was authorized to contract with the printer and superintend the publication.
The whole edition of fifty numbered copies was to be disposed of at auction, in advance, to
the highest bidder, only one copy to each, the proceeds to be devoted to paying for the printing
and binding, the remainder, if any, to go into the club treasury, and Baxter himself to receive
one copy by way of remuneration. Baxter was inclined to protest at this, on the ground that
his copy would probably be worth more than the royalties on the edition, at the usual ten per
cent, would amount to, but was finally prevailed upon to accept an author's copy.

While the Procrustes was under consideration, some one read, at one of our meetings, a note
from some magazine, which stated that a sealed copy of a new translation of Campanella's Sonnets,
published by the Grolier Club, had been sold for three hundred dollars. This impressed the
members greatly. It was a novel idea. A new work might thus be enshrined in a sort of holy
of holies, which, if the collector so desired, could be forever sacred from the profanation
of any vulgar or unappreciative eye. The possessor of such a treasure could enjoy it by the
eye of imagination, having at the same time the exaltation of grasping what was for others
the unattainable. The literary committee were so impressed with this idea that they presented
it to Baxter in regard to the Procrustes. Baxter making no objection, the subscribers who might
wish their copies delivered sealed were directed to notify the author. I sent in my name. A
fine book, after all, was an investment, and if there was any way of enhancing its rarity,
and therefore its value, I was quite willing to enjoy such an advantage.

When the Procrustes was ready for distribution, each subscriber received his copy by mail,
in a neat pasteboard box. Each number was wrapped in a thin and transparent but very strong
paper through which the cover design and tooling were clearly visible. The number of the copy
was indorsed upon the wrapper, the folds of which were securely fastened at each end with sealing-wax,
upon which was impressed, as a guaranty of its inviolateness, the monogram of the club.

At the next meeting of the Bodleian, a great deal was said about the Procrustes, and it was
unanimously agreed that no finer specimen of bookmaking had ever been published by the club.
By a curious coincidence, no one had brought his copy with him, and the two club copies had
not yet been received from the binder, who, Baxter had reported was retaining them for some
extra fine work. Upon resolution, offered by a member who had not subscribed for the volume,
a committee of three was appointed to review the Procrustes at the next literary meeting of
the club. Of this committee it was my doubtful fortune to constitute one.

In pursuance of my duty in the premises, it of course became necessary for me to read the Procrustes.
In all probability I should have cut my own copy for this purpose, had not one of the club
auctions intervened between my appointment and the date set for the discussion of the Procrustes.
At this meeting a copy of the book, still sealed, was offered for sale, and bought by a non-subscriber
for the unprecedented price of one hundred and fifty dollars. After this a proper regard for
my own interests would not permit me to spoil my copy by opening it, and I was therefore compelled
to procure my information concerning the poem from some other source. As I had no desire to
appear mercenary, I said nothing about my own copy, and made no attempt to borrow. I did, however,
casually remark to Baxter that I should like to look at his copy of the proof sheets, since
I wished to make some extended quotations for my review, and would rather not trust my copy
to a typist for that purpose. Baxter assured me, with every evidence of regret, that he had
considered them of so little importance that he had thrown them into the fire. This indifference
of Baxter to literary values struck me as just a little overdone. The proof sheets of Hamlet,
corrected in Shakespeare's own hand, would be well-nigh priceless.

At the next meeting of the club I observed that Thompson and Davis, who were with me on the
reviewing committee, very soon brought up the question of the Procrustes in conversation in
the smoking-room, and seemed anxious to get from the members their views concerning Baxter's
production, I supposed upon the theory that the appreciation of any book review would depend
more or less upon the degree to which it reflected the opinion of those to whom the review
should be presented. I presumed, of course, that Thompson and Davis had each read the book,--they
were among the subscribers,--and I was desirous of getting their point of view.

"What do you think," I inquired, "of the passage on Social Systems?" I have forgotten to say
that the poem was in blank verse, and divided into parts, each with an appropriate title.

"Well," replied Davis, it seemed to me a little cautiously, "it is not exactly Spencerian,
although it squints at the Spencerian view, with a slight deflection toward Hegelianism. I
should consider it an harmonious fusion of the best views of all the modern philosophers, with
a strong Baxterian flavor."

"Yes," said Thompson, "the charm of the chapter lies in this very quality. The style is an
emanation from Baxter's own intellect,--he has written himself into the poem. By knowing Baxter
we are able to appreciate the book, and after having read the book we feel that we are so much
the more intimately acquainted with Baxter,--the real Baxter."

Baxter had come in during this colloquy, and was standing by the fireplace smoking a pipe.
I was not exactly sure whether the faint smile which marked his face was a token of pleasure
or cynicism; it was Baxterian, however, and I had already learned that Baxter's opinions upon
any subject were not to be gathered always from his facial expression. For instance, when the
club porter's crippled child died Baxter remarked, it seemed to me unfeelingly, that the poor
little devil was doubtless better off, and that the porter himself had certainly been relieved
of a burden; and only a week later the porter told me in confidence that Baxter had paid for
an expensive operation, undertaken in the hope of prolonging the child's life. I therefore
drew no conclusions from Baxter's somewhat enigmatical smile. He left the room at this point
in the conversation, somewhat to my relief.

"By the way, Jones," said Davis, addressing me, "are you impressed by Baxter's views on Degeneration?"

Having often heard Baxter express himself upon the general downward tendency of modern civilization,
I felt safe in discussing his views in a broad and general manner.

"I think," I replied, "that they are in harmony with those of Schopenhauer, without his bitterness;
with those of Nordau, without his flippancy. His materialism is Haeckel's, presented with something
of the charm of Omar Khayyam."

"Yes," chimed in Davis, "it answers the strenuous demand of our day,--dissatisfaction with
an unjustified optimism,--and voices for us the courage of human philosophy facing the unknown."

I had a vague recollection of having read something like this somewhere, but so much has been
written, that one can scarcely discuss any subject of importance without unconsciously borrowing,
now and then, the thoughts or the language of others. Quotation, like imitation, is a superior
grade of flattery.

"The Procrustes," said Thompson, to whom the metrical review had been apportioned, "is couched
in sonorous lines, of haunting melody and charm; and yet so closely inter-related as to be
scarcely quotable with justice to the author. To be appreciated the poem should be read as
a whole,--I shall say as much in my review. What shall you say of the letter-press?" he concluded,
addressing me. I was supposed to discuss the technical excellence of the volume from the connoisseur's
viewpoint.

"The setting," I replied judicially, "is worthy of the gem. The dark green cover, elaborately
tooled, the old English lettering, the heavy linen paper, mark this as one of our very choicest
publications. The letter-press is of course De Vinne's best,--there is nothing better on this
side of the Atlantic. The text is a beautiful, slender stream, meandering gracefully through
a wide meadow of margin."

For some reason I left the room for a minute. As I stepped into the hall, I almost ran into
Baxter, who was standing near the door, facing a hunting print of a somewhat humorous character,
hung upon the wall, and smiling with an immensely pleased expression.

"What a ridiculous scene!" he remarked. "Look at that fat old squire on that tall hunter! I'll
wager dollars to doughnuts that he won't get over the first fence!"

It was a very good bluff, but did not deceive me. Under his mask of unconcern, Baxter was anxious
to learn what we thought of his poem, and had stationed himself in the hall that he might overhear
our discussion without embarrassing us by his presence. He had covered up his delight at our
appreciation by this simulated interest in the hunting print.

When the night came for the review of the Procrustes there was a large attendance of members,
and several visitors, among them a young English cousin of one of the members, on his first
visit to the United States; some of us had met him at other clubs, and in society, and had
found him a very jolly boy, with a youthful exuberance of spirits and a naive ignorance of
things American that made his views refreshing and, at times, amusing.

The critical essays were well considered, if a trifle vague. Baxter received credit for poetic
skill of a high order.

"Our brother Baxter," said Thompson, "should no longer bury his talent in a napkin. This gem,
of course, belongs to the club, but the same brain from which issued this exquisite emanation
can produce others to inspire and charm an appreciative world."

"The author's view of life," said Davis, "as expressed in these beautiful lines, will help
us to fit our shoulders for the heavy burden of life, by bringing to our realization those
profound truths of philosophy which find hope in despair and pleasure in pain. When he shall
see fit to give to the wider world, in fuller form, the thoughts of which we have been vouchsafed
this foretaste, let us hope that some little ray of his fame may rest upon the Bodleian, from
which can never be taken away the proud privilege of saying that he was one of its members."

I then pointed out the beauties of the volume as a piece of bookmaking. I knew, from conversation
with the publication committee, the style of type and rubrication, and could see the cover
through the wrapper of my sealed copy. The dark green morocco, I said, in summing up, typified
the author's serious view of life, as a thing to be endured as patiently as might be. The cap-and-bells
border was significant of the shams by which the optimist sought to delude himself into the
view that life was a desirable thing. The intricate blind-tooling of the doublure shadowed
forth the blind fate which left us in ignorance of our future and our past, or of even what
the day itself might bring forth. The black-letter type, with rubricated initials, signified
a philosophic pessimism enlightened by the conviction that in duty one might find, after all,
an excuse for life and a hope for humanity. Applying this test to the club, this work, which
might be said to represent all that the Bodleian stood for, was in itself sufficient to justify
the club's existence. If the Bodleian had done nothing else, if it should do nothing more,
it had produced a masterpiece.

There was a sealed copy of the Procrustes, belonging, I believe, to one of the committee, lying
on the table by which I stood, and I had picked it up and held it in my hand for a moment,
to emphasize one of my periods, but had laid it down immediately. I noted, as I sat down, that
young Hunkin, our English visitor, who sat on the other side of the table, had picked up the
volume and was examining it with interest. When the last review was read, and the generous
applause had subsided, there were cries for Baxter.

"Baxter! Baxter! Author! Author!"

Baxter had been sitting over in a corner during the reading of the reviews, and had succeeded
remarkably well, it seemed to me, in concealing, under his mask of cynical indifference, the
exultation which I was sure he must feel. But this outburst of enthusiasm was too much even
for Baxter, and it was clear that he was struggling with strong emotion when he rose to speak.

"Gentlemen, and fellow members of the Bodleian, it gives me unaffected pleasure--sincere pleasure--some
day you may know how much pleasure--I cannot trust myself to say it now--to see the evident
care with which your committee have read my poor verses, and the responsive sympathy with which
my friends have entered into my views of life and conduct. I thank you again, and again, and
when I say that I am too full for utterance,--I'm sure you will excuse me from saying any more."

Baxter took his seat, and the applause had begun again when it was broken by a sudden exclamation.

"By Jove!" exclaimed our English visitor, who still sat behind the table, "what an extraordinary
book!"

Every one gathered around him.

"You see," he exclaimed; holding up the volume, "you fellows said so much about the bally book
that I wanted to see what it was like; so I untied the ribbon, and cut the leaves with the
paper knife lying here, and found--and found that there wasn't a single line in it, don't you
know!"

Blank consternation followed this announcement, which proved only too true. Every one knew
instinctively, without further investigation, that the club had been badly sold. In the resulting
confusion Baxter escaped, but later was waited upon by a committee, to whom he made the rather
lame excuse that he had always regarded uncut and sealed books as tommy-rot, and that he had
merely been curious to see how far the thing could go; and that the result had justified his
belief that a book with nothing in it was just as useful to a book-collector as one embodying
a work of genius. He offered to pay all the bills for the sham Procrustes, or to replace the
blank copies with the real thing, as we might choose. Of course, after such an insult, the
club did not care for the poem. He was permitted to pay the expense, however, and it was more
than hinted to him that his resignation from the club would be favorably acted upon. He never
sent it in, and, as he went to Europe shortly afterwards, the affair had time to blow over.

In our first disgust at Baxter's duplicity, most of us cut our copies of the Procrustes, some
of us mailed them to Baxter with cutting notes, and others threw them into the fire. A few
wiser spirits held on to theirs, and this fact leaking out, it began to dawn upon the minds
of the real collectors among us that the volume was something unique in the way of a publication.

"Baxter," said our president one evening to a select few of us who sat around the fireplace,
"was wiser than we knew, or than he perhaps appreciated. His Procrustes, from the collector's
point of view, is entirely logical, and might be considered as the acme of bookmaking. To the
true collector, a book is a work of art, of which the contents are no more important than the
words of an opera. Fine binding is a desideratum, and, for its cost, that of the Procrustes
could not be improved upon. The paper is above criticism. The true collector loves wide margins,
and the Procrustes, being all margin, merely touches the vanishing point of the perspective.
The smaller the edition, the greater the collector's eagerness to acquire a copy. There are
but six uncut copies left, I am told, of the Procrustes, and three sealed copies, of one of
which I am the fortunate possessor."

After this deliverance, it is not surprising that, at our next auction, a sealed copy of Baxter's
Procrustes was knocked down, after spirited bidding, for two hundred and fifty dollars, the
highest price ever brought by a single volume published by the club.

THE HEART OF THE RACE PROBLEM by Quincy Ewing

"And, instead of going to the Congress of the United States and saying there is no distinction
made in Mississippi, because of color or previous condition of servitude, tell the truth, and
say this: 'We tried for many years to live in Mississippi, and share sovereignty and dominion
with the Negro, and we saw our institutions crumbling.... We rose in the majesty and highest
type of Anglo-Saxon manhood, and took the reins of government out of the hands of the carpet-bagger
and the Negro, and, so help us God, from now on we will never share any sovereignty or dominion
with him again.'"--Governor JAMES K. VARDAMAN, Mississippi, 1904.

During the past decade, newspaper and magazine articles galore, and not a few books, have been
written on what is called the "Race Problem," the problem caused by the presence in this country
of some ten millions of black and variously-shaded colored people known as Negroes. But, strange
as it may sound, the writer has no hesitation in saying that at this date there appears to
be no clear conception anywhere, on the part of most people, as to just what the essential
problem is which confronts the white inhabitants of the country because they have for fellow-citizens
(nominally) ten million Negroes. Ask the average man, ask even the average editor or professor
anywhere, what the race problem is, the heart of it; why, in this land with its millions of
foreigners of all nationalities, THE race problem of problems should be caused by ten million
Negroes, not foreigners but native to the soil through several generations; and in all probability
you will get some such answer as this:--

"The Negroes, as a rule, are very ignorant, are very lazy, are very brutal, are very criminal.
But a little way removed from savagery, they are incapable of adopting the white man's moral
code, of assimilating the white man's moral sentiments, of striving toward the white man's
moral ideals. They are creatures of brutal, untamed instincts, and uncontrolled feral passions,
which give frequent expression of themselves in crimes of horrible ferocity. They are, in brief,
an uncivilized, semi-savage people, living in a civilization to which they are unequal, partaking
to a limited degree of its benefits, performing in no degree its duties. Because they are spatially
in a civilization to which they are morally and intellectually repugnant, they cannot but be
as a foreign irritant to the body social. The problem is, How shall the body social adjust
itself, daily, hourly, to this irritant; how feel at ease and safe in spite of it? How shall
the white inhabitants of the land, with their centuries of inherited superiority, conserve
their civilization and carry it forward to a yet higher plane, hampered by ten million black
inhabitants of the same land with their centuries of inherited inferiority?"

To the foregoing answer, this might now and again be added, or advanced independently in reply
to our question: "Personal aversion on the part of the white person for the Negro; personal
aversion accounted for by nothing the individual Negro is, or is not, intellectually and morally;
accounted for by the fact, simply, that he is a Negro, that he has a black or colored skin,
that he is different, of another kind."

Now, certainly, there are very few average men or philosophers, to whom the answer given to
our question would not seem to state, or at any rate fairly indicate, the race problem in its
essence. But, however few they be, I do not hesitate to align myself with them as one who does
not believe that the essential race problem as it exists in the South (whatever it be in the
North) is stated, or even fairly indicated, in the foregoing answer. In Northern and Western
communities, where he is outnumbered by many thousands of white people, the Negro may be accounted
a problem, because he is lazy, or ignorant, or brutal, or criminal, or all these things together;
or because he is black and different. But in Southern communities, where the Negro is not outnumbered
by many thousands of white people, the race problem, essentially, and in its most acute form,
is something distinct from his laziness or ignorance, or brutality, or criminality, or all-round
intellectual and moral inferiority to the white man. That problem as the South knows and deals
with it would exist, as certainly as it does to-day, if there were no shadow of excuse for
the conviction that the Negro is more lazy, or more ignorant, or more criminal, or more brutal,
or more anything else he ought not to be, or less anything else he ought to be, than other
men. In other words, let it be supposed that the average Negro is as a matter of fact the equal,
morally and intellectually, of the average white man of the same class, and the race problem
declines to vanish, declines to budge. We shall see why, presently. The statements just made
demand immediate justification. For they are doubtless surprising to a degree, and to some
readers may prove startling.

I proceed to justify them as briefly as possible, asking the reader to bear in mind that very
much more might be said along this line than I allow myself space to say.

I

That the Negro is not a problem because he is lazy, because he declines to work, is evidenced
by the patent fact that in virtually every Southern community he is sought as a laborer in
fields, mills, mines, and that in very many Southern communities the vexing problem for employers
is not too many, but too few Negroes. In certain agricultural sections, notably in the Louisiana
sugar district, quite a number of Italians ("Dagoes") are employed. The reason is not dissatisfaction
with Negro labor, but simply that there is not enough of it to meet the requirements of the
large plantations. There is, perhaps, not one of these plantations on which any able-bodied
Negro could not get employment for the asking; and as a rule, the Negroes are given, not the
work which demands the lowest, but that which demands the highest, efficiency: they are the
ploughmen, the teamsters, the foremen. If any one doubts that Negroes are wanted as laborers
in Southern communities, very much wanted, let him go to any such community and attempt to
inveigle a few dozen of the laziest away. He will be likely to take his life in his hands,
after the usual warning is disregarded!

II

The small politician's trump-card, played early and late, and in all seasons, that the Negro
is a black shadow over the Southland because of his excessive criminality, serves well the
politician's purpose,--it wins his game; but only because the game is played and won on a board
where fictions, not facts, are dominant. Nothing is easier than to offer so-called proofs of
the contention that the Negro's tendency to crime is something peculiar to his race; there
are the jail and penitentiary and gallows statistics, for instance. But surely it should not
be difficult for these so-called proofs to present themselves in their true light to any one
who takes the trouble to consider two weighty and conspicuous facts: this, first, that the
Negroes occupy everywhere in this country the lowest social and industrial plane, the plane
which everywhere else supplies the jail, the penitentiary, the gallows, with the greatest number
of their victims; and secondly this, that in the section of the country where these penal statistics
are gathered, all the machinery of justice is in the hands of white men.

No Negro is a sheriff, or judge, or justice of the peace, or grand or petit juryman, or member
of a pardoning board. Charged with crime, again and again, the black man must go to jail; he
is unable to give bond; he is defended, not by the ablest, but by the poorest lawyers, often
by an unwilling appointee of the court; he lacks the benefit of that personal appeal to judge
and jury, so often enjoyed by other defendants, which would make them WANT to believe him innocent
until proven guilty; he faces, on the contrary, a judge and jury who hold him in some measure
of contempt as a man, regardless of his guilt or innocence. He is without means, except occasionally,
to fight his case through appeals to higher courts, and errors sleep in many a record that
on review would upset the verdict. In the light of such considerations, it would seem impossible
that criminal statistics should not bear hard upon the Negro race, even supposing it to be
a fact that that race of all races in the world is the LEAST criminal.

Let it be admitted without question that in most Southern communities the crimes and misdemeanors
of the Negroes exceed those committed by an equal number of white people, and we have admitted
nothing that at all explains or accounts for the race problem. For is it not equally true that
in every other community the doers of society's rough work, the recipients of its meagrest
rewards, are chargeable, relatively, with the greatest number of crimes and misdemeanors? Is
it not true, as well in Massachusetts and Connecticut as in Louisiana and Mississippi, that
the vast majority of those occupying prison cells are members of the social lowest class? that
the vast majority condemned, after trial, to hard labor with their hands were accustomed to
such labor before their judicial condemnation? Nothing is more preposterous than the idea that
the race problem means more Negroes hanged, more Negroes imprisoned, more Negroes in mines
and chain-gangs, than white people! If the Negro did not furnish the great bulk of the grist
for the grinding of our penal machinery in the Southern states, he would constitute the racial
miracle of this and all ages!

My own conviction is, and I speak with the experience of forty years' residence in Southern
states, that the Negro is not more given to crimes and misdemeanors than the laboring population
of any other section of the country. But be this as it may, it is abundantly certain that no
race of people anywhere are more easily controlled than the Negroes by the guardians of law
and order; and there are none anywhere so easily punished for disobedience to the statutes
and mandates of their economic superiors. Courts and juries may be sometimes subject to just
criticism for undue leniency toward white defendants; but that courts and juries are ever subject
to just criticism for undue leniency in dealing with black defendants is the sheerest nonsense.

The frequent charge that the Negro's worst crimes partake of a brutality that is peculiarly
racial, is not supported by facts. I need not enlarge upon this statement further than to say
that the Negro's worst crimes, with all their shocking accompaniments, are, not seldom, but
often, duplicated by white men. Let any one who doubts the statement observe for one week the
criminal statistics of any cosmopolitan newspaper, and he will have his doubt removed.

Assuredly we do not hit upon the essence of the race problem in the Negro's propensity to crime!

III

Do we hit upon it in his ignorance, in the fact that an immense number of the black people
are illiterate, not knowing the first from the last letter of the alphabet? Hardly. For, almost
to a man, the people who most parade and most rail at the race problem in private conversation,
on the political platform, and in the pages of newspapers, books, and periodicals, are disposed
rather to lament, than to assist, the passing of the Negro's ignorance. Ex-Governor Vardaman,
of Mississippi, used the following language in a message to the legislature of that state,
January, 1906:--

"The startling facts revealed by the census show that those [Negroes] who can read and write
are more criminal than the illiterate, which is true of no other element of our population..
.. The state for many years, at great expense to the tax-payers, has maintained a system of
Negro education which has produced disappointing results, and I am opposed to the perpetuation
of this system. My own idea is, that the character of education for the Negro ought to be changed.
If, after forty years of earnest effort, and the expenditure of fabulous sums to educate his
head, we have only succeeded in making a criminal of him and impairing his usefulness and efficiency
as a laborer, wisdom would suggest that we make another experiment and see if we cannot improve
him by educating his hand and his heart.... Slavery is the only process by which he has ever
been partially civilized. God Almighty created the Negro for a menial, he is essentially a
servant."

This is the reply of an ex-governor of one of our blackest states to those who contend that
the negro is a problem, a "burden carried by the white people of the South," because of his
ignorance and consequent inefficiency; and that the lightening of the burden depends upon more
money spent, more earnest efforts made, for the schooling of the black people. According to
this ex-governor, and there are thousands who agree with him in and out of Mississippi, the
race problem is heightened, rather than mitigated, by all attempts to increase the negro's
intellectual efficiency. The more ignorant he is, the less burdensome he is to the white man,
provided his heart be good, and his hands skillful enough to do the service of a menial. Nothing
but slavery ever partially civilized him, nothing but slavery continued in some form can civilize
him further!

IV

If we listen vainly for the heart-throb of the race problem in the Negro's laziness, and criminality,
and brutality, and ignorance, and inefficiency, do we detect it with clearness and certainty
in the personal aversion felt by the white people for the black people, aversion which the
white people can no more help feeling than the black people can help exciting? Is this the
real trouble, the real burden, the real tragedy and sorrow of our white population in those
sections of the country where the Negroes are many,--that they are compelled to dwell face
to face, day by day, with an inferior, degraded population, repulsive to their finer sensibilities,
obnoxious to them in countless ways inexplicable? Facts are far from furnishing an affirmative
answer. However pronounced may be the feeling of personal aversion toward the Negroes in Northern
communities, where they are few, or known at long range, or casually, there is no such thing
in Southern communities as personal aversion for the Negro pronounced enough to be responsible
for anything resembling a problem. How could there be in the South, where from infancy we have
all been as familiar with black faces as with white; where many of us fell asleep in the laps
of black mammies, and had for playmates Ephrom, Izik, Zeke, black mammy's grandchildren; where
most of us have had our meals prepared by black cooks, and been waited on by black house-servants
and dining-room servants, and ridden in carriages and buggies with black hostlers? We are so
used to the black people in the South, their mere personal presence is so far from being responsible
for our race problem, that the South would not seem Southern without them, as it would not
without its crape myrtles, and live-oaks, and magnolias, its cotton and its sugar-cane!

It is very easy to go astray in regard to the matter of personal aversion toward the members
of alien races, to magnify greatly the reality and importance of it. What seems race-aversion
is frequently something else, namely, revulsion aroused by the presence of the strange, the
unusual, the uncanny, the not-understood. Such revulsion is aroused, not only by the members
of alien races, alien and unfamiliar, but as certainly by strange animals of not more terrifying
appearance than the well-loved cow and horse; and it would be aroused as really and as painfully,
doubtless, by the sudden proximity of one of Milton's archangels. It was not necessarily race-aversion
which made Emerson, and may have made many another Concord philosopher, uncomfortable in the
presence of a Negro, any more than it is race-aversion which makes the Fifth Avenue boy run
from the gentle farmyard cow; any more than it is race-aversion which would make me uncomfortable
in the presence of Li Hung Chang. The Negro, simply, it may be, was a mystery to Emerson, as
the farmyard cow is a mystery to the Fifth Avenue boy, as the Chinaman is a mystery to me.

The Negro is NOT a mystery to people whom he has nursed and waited on, whose language he has
spoken, whose ways, good and bad, he has copied for generations; and his personal presence
does not render them uncomfortable, not, at any rate, uncomfortable enough to beget the sense
of a burden or a problem.

It may be very difficult for Northern readers, to whom the Negro is in reality a stranger,
a foreigner, to appreciate fully the force of what has just been said; but appreciated by them
it must be, or they can never hope to realize the innermost meaning of the race problem in
the South.

So much for what the race problem is not. Let me without further delay state what it is. The
foundation of it, true or false, is the white man's conviction that the Negro as a race, and
as an individual, is his inferior: not human in the sense that he is human, not entitled to
the exercise of human rights in the sense that he is entitled to the exercise of them. The
problem itself, the essence of it, the heart of it, is the white man's determination to make
good this conviction, coupled with constant anxiety lest, by some means, he should fail to
make it good. The race problem, in other words, is NOT that the Negro is what he is in relation
to the white man, the white man's inferior; but this, rather: How to keep him what he is in
relation to the white man; how to prevent his ever achieving or becoming that which would justify
the belief on his part, or on the part of other people, that he and the white man stand on
common human ground.

That such is the heart of the problem should be made evident by this general consideration
alone: namely, that everywhere in the South friction between the races is entirely absent so
long as the Negro justifies the white man's opinion of him as an inferior; is grateful for
privileges and lays no claim to RIGHTS. Let him seem content to be as the South insists he
shall be, and not only is he not harshly treated, not abused, and never boycotted, but he is
shown much kindness and generosity, and employment awaits him for the asking. Trouble brews
when he begins to manifest those qualities, to reveal those tastes, to give vent to those ambitions,
which are supposed to be characteristic exclusively of the higher human type, and which, unless
restrained, would result in confounding the lower with the higher. The expression "Good Nigger"
means everywhere in the South a real Negro, from the Southern standpoint, one who in no respect
gets out of focus with that standpoint; the expression "Bad Nigger" means universally one who
in some respect, not necessarily criminal, does get out of focus with it. So, stated differently,
the race problem is the problem how to keep the Negro in focus with the traditional standpoint.

But we are very far from needing to rely upon any general consideration in support of the proposition
advanced above. It is supported by evidences on every hand, waiting only the eye of recognition.
Scarcely a day passes but something is said or done with this end in view, to emphasize, lest
they forget, the conviction for both white man and Negro that the latter is and must remain
an inferior. Let me instance a few such evidences.

Consider, first, the "Jim Crow" legislation in the manner of its enforcement. Such legislation
is supposed to have for its object the separation of the races in trains, street-cars, etc.,
to save the white people from occasional contact with drunken, rowdy, ill-smelling Negroes,
and to prevent personal encounters between the whites and blacks. How is this object attained
in the street cars of Southern cities? Members of the different races occupy the same cars,
separated only by absurdly inadequate little open-mesh wire screens, so tiny and light that
a conductor can move them from one seat to another with the strength of his little finger.
Needless to add, these screens would serve to obscure neither sound, sight, nor smell of drunken
rowdies who sat behind them! In summer cars black and white passengers may be separated not
even by a make-believe screen; they are simply required, respectively, to occupy certain seats
in the front or the back end of the cars.

In Birmingham, Alabama, the front seats are assigned to Negroes in all closed cars, and the
back seats in all open ones. Why the front seats in the one case, and the back seats in the
other, it is not easy to understand in the light of the letter and alleged spirit of the Jim
Crow law! The underlying purpose of the law is clearly not the separation of the races in space;
for public sentiment does not insist upon its fulfillment to that end. The underlying purpose
of it would seem to be the separation of the races in status. The doctrine of inequality would
be attacked if white and black passengers rode in public conveyances on equal terms; therefore
the Negro who rides in a public conveyance must do so, not as of undoubted right, but as with
the white man's permission, subject to the white man's regulation. "This place you may occupy,
that other you may not, because I am I and you are you, lest to you or me it should be obscured
that I am I and you are you." Such is the real spirit of the Jim Crow laws.

Why is it that in every Southern city no Negro is allowed to witness a dramatic performance,
or a baseball game, from a first-class seat? In every large city, there are hundreds of Negroes
who would gladly pay for first-class seats at the theatre and the baseball game, were they
permitted to. It can hardly be that permission is withheld because theatres and baseball games
are so well attended by half the population that first-class seats could not be furnished for
the other half. As a matter of fact, theatre-auditoriums and baseball grand-stands are seldom
crowded; the rule is, not all first-class seats occupied, but many vacant. Surely as simple
as moving from seat to seat a make-shift screen in a street-car, would it be to set apart a
certain number of seats in the dress-circle of every theatre, and in the grand-stand of every
baseball park, for Negro patrons. The reason why this is not done is perfectly obvious: it
would be intolerable to the average Southern man or woman to sit through the hours of a theatrical
performance or a baseball game on terms of equal accommodation with Negroes, even with a screen
between. Negroes would look out of place, out of status, in the dress circle or the grand-stand;
their place, signifying their status, is the peanut-gallery, or the bleachers. There, neither
they nor others will be tempted to forget that as things are they must continue.

How shall we account for the "intense feeling" (to quote the language of the mayor or New Orleans)
occasioned in that city one day, last July, when it was flashed over the wires that the first
prize in the National Spelling Contest had been won by a Negro girl, in competition with white
children from New Orleans and other Southern cities? The indignation of at least one of the
leading New Orleans papers verged upon hysterics; the editor's rhetoric visited upon some foulest
crime could hardly have been more inflamed than in denunciation of the fact that, on the far-away
shore of Lake Erie, New Orleans white children had competed at a spelling bee with a Negro
girl. The superintendent of the New Orleans schools was roundly denounced in many quarters
for permitting his wards to compete with a Negro; and there were broad hints in "Letters from
the People" to the papers that his resignation was in order.

Certainly in the days following the National Spelling Contest the race problem was in evidence,
if it ever was, in New Orleans and the South! Did it show itself, then, as the problem of Negro
crime, or brutality, or laziness? Assuredly not! Of the Negro's personal repulsiveness? By
no means! There was no evidence of Negro criminality, or brutality, or laziness in the Negro
child's victory; and every day in the South, in their games and otherwise, hundreds of white
children of the best families are in closer personal contact with little Negroes than were
the white children who took part in the Cleveland spelling bee. The "intense feeling" can be
explained on one ground only: the Negro girl's victory was an affront to the tradition of the
Negro's inferiority; it suggested--perhaps indicated--that, given equal opportunities, all
Negroes are not necessarily the intellectual inferiors of all white people. What other explanation
is rationally conceivable? If the race problem means in the South to its white inhabitants
the burden and tragedy of having to dwell face to face with an intellectually and morally backward
people, why should not the Negro girl's triumph have occasioned intense feeling of pleasure,
rather than displeasure, by its suggestion that her race is not intellectually hopeless?

Consider further that while no Negro, no matter what his occupation, or personal refinement,
or intellectual culture, or moral character, is allowed to travel in a Pullman car between
state lines, or to enter as a guest a hotel patronized by white people, the blackest of Negro
nurses and valets are given food and shelter in all first-class hotels, and occasion neither
disgust, nor surprise in the Pullman cars. Here again the heart of the race problem is laid
bare. The black nurse with a white baby in her arms, the black valet looking after the comfort
of a white invalid, have the label of their inferiority conspicuously upon them; they understand
themselves, and everybody understands them, to be servants, enjoying certain privileges for
the sake of the person served. Almost anything, the Negro may do in the South, and anywhere
he may go, provided the manner of his doing and his doing is that of an inferior. Such is the
premium put upon his inferiority; such his inducement to maintain it.

The point here insisted on may be made clearer, if already it is not clear enough, by this
consideration, that the man who would lose social caste for dining with an Irish street-sweeper
might be congratulated for dining with an Irish educator; but President Roosevelt would scarcely
have given greater offense by entertaining a Negro laborer at the White House than he gave
by inviting to lunch there the Principal of Tuskegee Institute. The race problem being what
it is, the status of any Negro is logically the status of every other. There are recognizable
degrees of inferiority among Negroes themselves; some are vastly superior to others. But there
is only one degree of inferiority separating the Negro from the white person, attached to all
Negroes alike. The logic of the situation requires that to be any sort of black man is to be
inferior to any sort of white man; and from this logic there is no departure in the South.

Inconsistent, perhaps, with what has been said may seem the defeat in the Louisiana Legislature
(1908) of the anti-miscegenation bill, a measure designed to prohibit sexual cohabitation between
white persons and Negroes; to be specific, between white men and Negro women. But there was
no inconsistency whatever in the defeat of that bill. In all times and places, the status of
that portion of the female population, Lecky's martyred "priestesses of humanity," whose existence
men have demanded for the gratification of unlawful passion, has been that of social outcasts.
They have no rights that they can insist upon; they are simply privileged to exist by society's
permission, and may be any moment legislated out of their vocation. Hence the defeat of an
anti-miscegenation measure by Southern legislators cannot be construed as a failure on their
part to live up to their conviction of race-superiority. It must be construed, rather, as legislative
unwillingness to restrict the white man's liberty; to dictate by statute the kind of social
outcast which he may use as a mere means to the gratification of his passion. To concede to
Negro women the status of a degraded and proscribed class, is not in any sense to overlook
or obscure their racial inferiority, but on the contrary, it may be, to emphasize it. Precisely
the same principle, in a word, compasses the defeat of an anti-miscegenation bill which would
compass the defeat of a measure to prohibit Negro servants from occupying seats in Pullman cars.

At the risk of reiteration, I must in concluding this article take sharp issue with the view
of a recent very able writer, who asks the question, "What, essentially, is the Race Problem?"
and answers it thus: "The race problem is the problem of living with human beings who are not
like us, whether they are in our estimation our 'superiors' or inferiors, whether they have
kinky hair or pigtails, whether they are slant-eyed, hook-nosed, or thick-lipped. In its essence,
it is the same problem, magnified, which besets every neighborhood, even every family."

I have contended so far, and I here repeat, that the race problem is essentially NOT what this
writer declares it to be. It is emphatically not, in the South, "the problem of living with
human beings who are not like us, whether they are in our estimation our superiors or inferiors."
It may be, it probably is, that in the North, where the Negro is largely a stranger, a foreigner,
very much to the same degree that the Chinese are strangers and foreigners in the South; and
where, consequently, the Negro's personal repulsiveness is a much more significant force than
it is in the South. Assuredly there would be no race problem, anywhere, were there no contact
with others unlike ourselves! The unlikeness of the unlike is everywhere its indispensable
foundation. But we get nowhither unless we carefully distinguish between the foundation of
the problem and the problem itself. There is nothing in the unlikeness of the unlike that is
necessarily problematical; it may be simply accepted and dealt with as a fact, like any other
fact. The problem arises only when the people of one race are minded to adopt and act upon
some policy more or less oppressive or repressive in dealing with the people of another race.
In the absence of some such policy, there has never been a race problem since the world began.
It is the existence of such a policy become traditional, and supported by immovable conviction,
which constitutes the race problem of the Southern states.

There was an immensely tragic race problem distressing the South fifty years ago; but who will
suggest that it was the problem of "living with human beings who are not like us?" The problem
then was, clearly, how to make good a certain conviction concerning the unlike, how to maintain
a certain policy in dealing with them. What else is it today? The problem, How to maintain
the institution of chattel slavery, ceased to be at Appomattox; the problem, How to maintain
the social, industrial, and civic inferiority of the descendants of chattel slaves, succeeded
it, and is the race problem of the South at the present time. There is no other.

Whether the policy adopted by the white South, and supported, as I have said, by immovable
conviction, is expedient or inexpedient, wise or unwise, righteous or unrighteous, these are
questions which I have not sought to answer one way or another in this article. Perhaps they
cannot be answered at all in our time. Certain is it, that their only real and satisfactory
answer will be many years ahead of the present generation.

In the mean time, nothing could be more unwarranted, than to suppose that the race problem
of one section of this country is peculiar to that section, because its white inhabitants are
themselves in some sense peculiar; because they are peculiarly prejudiced, because they are
peculiarly behind the hour which the high clock of civilization has struck. Remove the white
inhabitants of the South, give their place to the white people of any other section of the
United States, and, beyond a peradventure, the Southern race problem, as I have defined it,
would continue to be--revealed, perhaps, in ways more perplexing, more intense and tragic.

NEGRO SUFFRAGE IN A DEMOCRACY by Ray Stannard Baker

In this paper I endeavor to lay down the fundamental principles which should govern the Negro
franchise in a democracy, and to outline a practical programme for the immediate treatment
of the problem.

As I see it, the question of Negro suffrage in the United States presents two distinct aspects:--

FIRST: the legal aspect.

SECOND: the practical aspect.

It will be admitted, I think, without argument, that all governments do and of a necessity
must exercise the right to limit the number of people who are permitted to take part in the
weighty responsibilities of the suffrage. Some governments allow only a few men to vote; in
an absolute monarchy there is only one voter; other governments, as they become more democratic,
permit a larger proportion of the people to vote.

Our own government is one of the freest in the world in the matter of suffrage; and yet we
bar out, in most states, all women; we bar out Mongolians, no matter how intelligent; we bar
out Indians, and all foreigners who have not passed through a certain probationary stage and
have not acquired a certain small amount of education. We also declare--for an arbitrary limit
must be placed somewhere--that no person under twenty-one years of age may exercise the right
to vote, although some boys of eighteen are to-day better equipped to pass intelligently upon
public questions than many grown men. We even place adult white men on probation until they
have resided for a certain length of time, often as much as two years, in the state or the
town where they wish to cast their ballots. Our registration and ballot laws eliminate hundreds
of thousands of voters; and finally, we bar out everywhere the defective and criminal classes
of our population. We do not realize, sometimes, I think, how limited the franchise really
is, even in America. We forget that out of nearly ninety million people in the United States,
fewer than fifteen million cast their votes for President in 1908--or about one in every six.

Thus the practice of a restricted suffrage is very deeply implanted in our system of government.
It is everywhere recognized that even in a democracy lines must be drawn, and that the ballot,
the precious instrument of government, must be hedged about with stringent regulations. The
question is, where shall these lines be drawn in order that the best interests, not of any
particular class, but of the whole nation, shall be served.

Upon this question, we, as free citizens, have the absolute right to agree or disagree with
the present laws regulating suffrage; and if we want more people brought in as partakers in
government, or some people who are already in, barred out, we have a right to organize, to
agitate, to do our best to change the laws. Powerful organizations of women are now agitating
for the right to vote; there is an organization which demands the suffrage for Chinese and
Japanese who wish to become citizens. It is even conceivable that a society might be founded
to lower the suffrage age-limit from twenty-one to nineteen years, thereby endowing a large
number of young men with the privileges, and therefore the educational responsibilities, of
political power. On the other hand, a large number of people, chiefly in our Southern States,
earnestly believe that the right of the Negro to vote should be curtailed, or even abolished.

Thus we disagree, and government is the resultant of all these diverse views and forces. No
one can say dogmatically how far democracy should go in distributing the enormously important
powers of active government. Democracy is not a dogma; it is not even a dogma of free suffrage.
Democracy is a life, a spirit, a growth. The primal necessity of any sort of government, democracy
or otherwise, whether it be more unjust or less unjust toward special groups of its citizens,
is to exist, to be a going concern, to maintain upon the whole a stable and peaceful administration
of affairs. If a democracy cannot provide such stability, then the people go back to some form
of oligarchy. Having secured a fair measure of stability, a democracy proceeds with caution
toward the extension of the suffrage to more and more people--trying foreigners, trying women,
trying Negroes.

And no one can prophesy how far a democracy will ultimately go in the matter of suffrage. We
know only the tendency. We know that in the beginning, even in America, the right to vote was
a very limited matter. In the early years, in New England, only church-members voted; then
the franchise was extended to include property-owners; then it was enlarged to include all
white adults; then to include Negroes; then, in several Western States, to include women.

Thus the line has been constantly advancing, but with many fluctuations, eddies, and back-currents--like
any other stream of progress. At the present time the fundamental principles which underlie
popular government, and especially the whole matter of popular suffrage, are much in the public
mind. The tendency of government throughout the entire civilized world is strongly in the direction
of placing more and more power in the hands of the people. In our own country we are enacting
a remarkable group of laws providing for direct primaries in the nomination of public officials,
for direct election of United States Senators, and for direct legislation by means of the initiative
and referendum; and we are even going to the point, in many cities, of permitting the people
to recall an elected official who is unsatisfactory. The principle of local option, which is
nothing but that of direct government by the people, is being everywhere accepted. All these
changes affect, fundamentally, the historic structure of our government, making it less republican
and more democratic.

Still more important and far-reaching in its significance is the tendency of our government,
especially our Federal Government, to regulate or to appropriate great groups of business enterprises
formerly left wholly in private hands. More and more, private business is becoming public business.

Now, then, as the weight of responsibility upon the popular vote is increased, it becomes more
and more important that the ballot should be jealously guarded and honestly exercised. In the
last few years, therefore, a series of extraordinary new precautions have been adopted: the
Australian ballot, more stringent registration systems, the stricter enforcement of naturalization
laws to prevent the voting of crowds of unprepared foreigners, and the imposition by several
states, rightly or wrongly, of educational and property tests. It becomes a more and more serious
matter every year to be an American citizen, more of an honor, more of a duty.

At the close of the Civil War, in a time of intense idealistic emotion, some three-quarters
of a million of Negroes, the mass of them densely ignorant and just out of slavery, with the
iron of slavery still in their souls, were suddenly given the political rights of free citizens.
A great many people, and not in the South alone, thought then, and still think, that it was
a mistake to bestow the high powers and privileges of a wholly unrestricted ballot--a ballot
which is the symbol of intelligent self-government--upon the Negro. Other people, of whom I
am one, believe that it was a necessary concomitant of the revolution; it was itself a revolution,
not a growth, and like every other revolution it has had its fearful reaction. Revolutions,
indeed, change names, but they do not at once change human relationships. Mankind is reconstructed
not by proclamations, or legislation, or military occupation, but by time, growth, education,
religion, thought. At that time, then, the nation drove down the stakes of its idealism in
government far beyond the point it was able to reach in the humdrum activities of everyday
existence. A reaction was inevitable; it was inevitable and perfectly natural that there should
be a widespread questioning as to whether all Negroes, or indeed any Negroes, should properly
be admitted to full political fellowship. That questioning continues to this day.

Let me here express my profound conviction that the principle of political equality then laid
down is a sound, valid, and absolutely essential principle in any free government; that restrictions
upon the ballot, when necessary, should be made to apply equally to white and colored citizens;
and that the Fifteenth Amendment ought not to be, and cannot be repealed. Moreover, I am convinced
that the principle of political equality is more firmly established to-day in this country
than it was forty years ago, when it had only Northern bayonets behind it. For now, however
short the practice falls of reaching the legal standard, the principle is woven into the warp
and woof of Southern life and Southern legislation. Many Southern white leaders of thought
are to-day CONVINCED, not FORCED believers in the principle; and that is a great omen.

Limitations have come about, it is true, and were to be expected as the back-currents of the
revolution. Laws providing for educational and property qualifications as a prerequisite to
the exercise of the suffrage have been passed in all the Southern States, and have operated
to exclude from the ballot large numbers of both white and colored citizens, who on account
of ignorance or poverty are unable to meet the tests. These provisions, whatever the opinion
entertained as to the wisdom of such laws, are well within the principle laid down by the Fifteenth
Amendment. But several Southern States have gone a step further, and by means of the so-called
'grandfather laws,' have exempted certain ignorant white men from the necessity of meeting
the educational and property tests. These unfair 'grandfather laws,' however, in some of the
states adopting them, have now expired by limitation.

Let me then lay down this general proposition:--

Nowhere in the South to-day is the Negro cut off LEGALLY, as a Negro, from the ballot. Legally,
to-day, any Negro who can meet the comparatively slight requirements as to education, or property,
or both, can cast his ballot on a basis of equality with the white man. I have emphasized the
word legally, for I know the PRACTICAL difficulties which confront the Negro votes in many
parts of the South. The point I wish to make is that legally the Negro is essentially the political
equal of the white man; but that practically, in the enforcement of the law, the legislative
ideal is still pegged out far beyond the actual performance.

Now, then, if we are interested in the problem of democracy, we have two courses open to us.
We may think the laws are unjust to the Negro, and incidentally to the 'poor white' man as
well. If we do, we have a perfect right to agitate for changes; and we can do much to disclose,
without heat, the actual facts regarding the complicated and vexatious legislative situation
in the South, as regards the suffrage. Every change in the legislation upon this subject should,
indeed, be jealously watched, that the principle of political equality between the races be
not legally curtailed. The doctrine laid down in the Fifteenth Amendment must, at any hazard,
be maintained.

But, personally,--and I am here voicing a profound conviction,--I think our emphasis at present
should be laid upon the practical rather than upon the legal aspect of the problem; I think
we should take advantage of the widely prevalent feeling in the South that the question of
suffrage has been settled, legally, for some time to come: of the desire on the part of many
Southern people, both white and colored, to turn aside from the discussion of the political
status of the Negro.

In short, let us for the time being accept the laws as they are, and build upward from that
point. Let us turn our attention to the practical task of finding out why it is that the laws
we already have are not enforced, and how best to secure an honest vote for every Negro and
equally for every 'poor white' man, who is able to meet the requirements, but who for one reason
or another does not or cannot now exercise his rights. I include the disfranchised white man
as well as the Negro, because I take it that we are interested, first of all, in democracy,
and unless we can arouse the spirit of democracy, South and North, we can hope for justice
neither for Negroes, nor for the poorer class of white men, nor for the women of the factories
and shops, nor for the children of the cottonmills.

Taking up this side of the problem we shall discover two entirely distinct difficulties:--

First, we shall find many Negroes, and indeed hundreds of thousands of white men as well, who
might vote, but who, through ignorance, or inability or unwillingness to pay the poll-taxes,
or from mere lack of interest, disfranchise themselves.

The second difficulty is peculiar to the Negro. It consists in open or concealed intimidation
on the part of the white men who control the election machinery. In many places in the South
to-day no Negro, how well qualified, would dare to present himself for registration; when he
does, he is rejected for some trivial or illegal reason.

Thus we have to meet a vast amount of apathy and ignorance and poverty on the one hand, and
the threat of intimidation on the other.

First of all, for it is the chief injustice as between white and colored men with which we
have to deal,--an injustice which the law already makes illegal and punishable,--how shall
we meet the matter of intimidation? As I have already said, the door of the suffrage is everywhere
legally open to the Negro, but a certain sort of Southerner bars the passage-way. He stands
there and, law or no law, keeps out many Negroes who might vote; and he represents in most
parts of the South the prevailing public opinion.

Shall we meet this situation by force? What force is available? Shall the North go down and
fight the South? You and I know that the North to-day has no feeling but friendship for the
South. More than that--and I say it with all seriousness, because it represents what I have
heard wherever I have gone in the North to make inquiries regarding the Negro problem--the
North, wrongly or rightly, is to-day more than half convinced that the South is right in imposing
some measure of limitation upon the franchise. There is now, in short, no disposition anywhere
in the North to interfere in internal affairs in the South--not even with the force of public
opinion.

What other force, then, is to be invoked? Shall the Negro revolt? Shall he migrate? Shall he
prosecute his case in the courts? The very asking of these questions suggests the inevitable reply.

We might as well, here and now, dismiss the idea of force, express or implied. There are times
of last resort which call for force; but this is not such a time.

What other alternatives are there?

Accepting the laws as they are, then, there are two methods of procedure, neither sensational
nor exciting. I have no quick cure to suggest, but only old and tried methods of commonplace
growth.

The underlying causes of the trouble in the country being plainly ignorance and prejudice,
we must meet ignorance and prejudice with their antidotes, education and association.

Every effort should be made to extend free education among both Negroes and white people. A
great extension of education is now going forward in the South. The Negro is not by any means
getting his full share; but, as certainly as sunshine makes things grow, education in the South
will produce tolerance. That there is already such a growing tolerance no one who has talked
with the leading white men in the South can doubt. The old fire-eating, Negro-baiting leaders
of the Tillman-Vardaman type are swiftly passing away: a far better and broader group is coming
into power.

In his last book, Mr. Edgar Gardner Murphy, of Alabama, expresses this new point of view when
he says,--

'There is no question here as to the unrestricted admission [to the ballot] of the great masses
of our ignorant and semi-ignorant blacks. I know no advocate of such admission. But the question
is as to whether the individuals of the race, upon conditions or restrictions legally imposed
and fairly administered, shall be admitted to adequate and increasing representation in the
electorate. And as that question is more seriously and more generally considered, many of the
leading publicists of the South, I am glad to say, are quietly resolved that the answer shall
be in the affirmative.'

From an able Southern white man, a resident of New Orleans, I received recently a letter containing
these words:--

'I believe we have reached the bottom, and a sort of quiescent period. I think it most likely
that from now on there will be a gradual increase of the Negro vote. And I honestly believe
that the less said about it, the surer the increase will be.'

Education--and by education I mean education of all sorts, industrial, professional, classical,
in accordance with each man's talents--will not only produce breadth and tolerance, but will
help to cure the apathy which now keeps so many thousands of both white men and Negroes from
the polls: for it will show them that it is necessary for every man to exercise all the political
rights within his reach. If he fails voluntarily to take advantage of the rights he already
has, how shall he acquire more rights?

And as ignorance must be met by education, so prejudice must be met with its antidote, which
is association. Democracy does not consist in mere voting, but in association, the spirit of
common effort, of which the ballot is a mere visible expression. When we come to know one another
we soon find that the points of likeness are much more numerous than the points of difference.
And this human association for the common good, which is democracy, is difficult to bring about
anywhere, whether among different classes of white people, or between white people and Negroes.
It is true those meetings bore evidence of awkwardness and embarrassment, for they were among
the first of the sort to take place in the South, but they were none the less valuable. A white
man told me after one of the meetings,--

'I did not know that there were any such sensible Negroes in the South.'

And a Negro told me that it was the first time in his life that he had ever heard a Southern
white man reason in a friendly way with a Negro concerning their common difficulties.

More and more these associations of white and colored men, at certain points of contact, must
and will come about. Already, in connection with various educational and business projects
in the South, white and colored men meet on common grounds, and the way has been opened to
a wider mutual understanding. And it is common enough now, where it was unheard of a few years
ago, for both white men and Negroes to speak from the same platform in the South. I have attended
a number of such meetings. Thus slowly--awkwardly, at first, for two centuries of prejudice
are not immediately overcome--the white man and Negro will come to know one another, not merely
as master and servant, but as co-workers. These things cannot be forced.

One reason why the white man and the Negro have not got together more rapidly in the South
than they have, is because they have tried always to meet at the sorest points. When sensible
people, who must live together whether or no, find that there are points at which they cannot
agree, it is the part of wisdom to avoid these points, and to meet upon other and common interests.
Upon no other terms, indeed, can a democracy exist, for in no imaginable future state will
individuals cease to disagree with one another upon something less than half of all the problems
of life.

'Here we all live together in a great country,' say the apostles of this view; 'let us all
get together and develop it. Let the Negro do his best to educate himself, to own his own land,
and to buy and sell with the white people in the fairest possible way.'

It is wonderful, indeed, how close together men who are stooping to a common task soon come.

Now, buying and selling, land ownership and common material pursuits, may not be the highest
points of contact between man and man, but they are real points, and help to give men an idea
of the worth of their fellows, white or black. How many times, in the South, I heard white
men speak in high admiration of some Negro farmer who had been successful, or of some Negro
blacksmith who was a worthy citizen, or of some Negro doctor who was a leader of his race.

It is curious, once a man (any man, white or black) learns to do his job well, how he finds
himself in a democratic relationship with other men. I remember asking a prominent white citizen
of a town in Central Georgia if he knew anything about Tuskegee. He said,--

'Yes: I had rather a curious experience last fall. I was building a hotel and couldn't get
any one to do the plastering as I wanted it done. One day I saw two Negro plasterers at work
in a new house that a friend of mine was building. I watched them for an hour. They seemed
to know their trade. I invited them to come over and see me. They came, took the contract for
my work, hired a white man to carry mortar at a dollar a day, and when they got through it
was the best job of plastering in town. I found that they had learned their trade at Tuskegee.
They averaged four dollars a day each in wages. We tried to get them to locate in our town,
but they went back to school.'

When I was in Mississippi a prominent banker showed me his business letter-heads.

'Good job, isn't it?' he said. 'A Negro printer did it. He wrote to me asking if he might bid
on my work. I replied that although I had known him a long time I couldn't give him the job
merely because he was a Negro. He told me to forget his color, and said that if he couldn't
do as good a job and do it as reasonably as any white man could, he didn't want it. I let him
try, and now he does most of our printing.'

Out of such points of contact, then, encouraged by such wise leaders as Booker T. Washington,
will grow an ever finer and finer spirit of association and of common and friendly knowledge.
And that will inevitably lead to an extension upon the soundest possible basis of the Negro
franchise. I know cases where white men have urged intelligent Negroes to come and cast their
ballots, and have stood sponsor for them, out of genuine respect. As a result, to-day, the
Negroes who vote in the South are, as a class, men of substance and intelligence, fully equal
to the tasks of citizenship.

Thus, I have boundless confidence not only in the sense of the white men of the South, but
in the innate capability of the Negro, and that once these two come really to know each other,
not at sore points of contact, but as common workers for a common country, the question of
suffrage will gradually solve itself along the lines of true democracy.

Another influence also will tend to change the status of the Negro as a voter. That is the
pending break-up of the political solidarity of the South. All the signs point to a political
realignment upon new issues in this country, both South and North. Old party names may even
pass away. And that break-up, with the attendant struggle for votes, is certain to bring into
politics thousands of Negroes and white men now disfranchised. The result of a real division
on live issues has been shown in many local contests in the South, as in the fight against
the saloons, when every qualified Negro voter, and every Negro who could qualify, was eagerly
pushed forward by one side or the other. With such a division on new issues the Negro will
tend to exercise more and more political power, dividing, not on the color line, but on the
principles at stake.

Thus in spite of the difficulties which now confront the Negro, I cannot but look upon the
situation in a spirit of optimism. I think sometimes we are tempted to set a higher value upon
the ritual of a belief than upon the spirit which underlies it. The ballot is not democracy:
it is merely the symbol or ritual of democracy, and it may be full of passionate social, yes,
even religious significance, or it may be a mere empty and dangerous formalism. What we should
look to, then, primarily, is not the shadow, but the substance of democracy in this country.
Nor must we look for results too swiftly; our progress toward democracy is slow of growth and
needs to be cultivated with patience and watered with faith.

RECONSTRUCTION by Frederick Douglass Atlantic Monthly 18 (1866): 761-765.

AN APPEAL TO CONGRESS FOR IMPARTIAL SUFFRAGE by Frederick Douglas Atlantic Monthly 19 (Jan.
1867): 112-117.

THE NEGRO EXODUS by James B. Runnion Atlantic Monthly 44 (1879): 222-230.

THE GOOPHERED GRAPEVINE by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly 60 (Aug. 1887): 254-260.

PO' SANDY by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly 61 (1888): 605-611.

DAVE'S NECKLISS by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly 64 (1889): 500-08.

THE AWAKENING OF THE NEGRO by Booker T. Washington Atlantic Monthly 78 (1896): 322-328.

THE STORY OF UNCLE TOM'S CABIN by Charles Dudley Warner Atlantic Monthly 78 (1896): 311-321.

STRIVINGS OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE by W. E. Burghardt Du Bois Atlantic Monthly 80 (1897): 194-198.

THE WIFE OF HIS YOUTH by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly 82 (1898): 55-61.

THE BOUQUET by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly 84 (1899): 648-654.

THE CASE OF THE NEGRO by Booker T. Washington Atlantic Monthly 84 (1899): 577-587.

HOT-FOOT HANNIBAL by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly 83 (1899): 49-56.

A NEGRO SCHOOLMASTER IN THE NEW SOUTH by W. E. Burghardt Du Bois Atlantic Monthly 83 (1899):
99-104.

THE CAPTURE OF A SLAVER by J. Taylor Wood Atlantic Monthly 86 (1900): 451-463.

MR. CHARLES W. CHESNUTT'S STORIES by W. D. Howells Atlantic Monthly 85 (1900): 699-701.

SIGNS OF PROGRESS AMONG THE NEGROES by Booker T. Washington Century Magazine 59 (1900): 472-478.

THE MARCH OF PROGRESS by Charles W. Chesnutt Century Magazine 61.3 (Jan. 1901): 422-428.

THE FREEDMEN'S BUREAU by W. E. Burghardt Du Bois Atlantic Monthly 87 (1901): 354-365.

OF THE TRAINING OF BLACK MEN by W. E. Burghardt Du Bois Atlantic Monthly 90 (1902): 289-297.

THE FRUITS OF INDUSTRIAL TRAINING by Booker T. Washington Atlantic Monthly 92 (1903): 453-462.

THE NEGRO IN THE REGULAR ARMY by Oswald Garrison Villard Atlantic Monthly 91 (1903): 721-729.

BAXTER'S PROCRUSTES by Charles W. Chesnutt Atlantic Monthly 93 (1904): 823-830.

THE HEART OF THE RACE PROBLEM by Quincy Ewing Atlantic Monthly 103 (1909): 389-397.

NEGRO SUFFRAGE IN A DEMOCRACY by Ray Stannard Baker Atlantic Monthly 106 (1910): 612-619.

