The merits of a brake in which electric apparatus is used, that has been adopted by one large
railway company, and is about to be used on the State railways, as well as the fact that arrangements
are being made to introduce it in England, demand consideration. It may be that modifications
will, under different circumstances, be introduced, or that the system will ultimately be found
too cumbersome or too delicate, but before criticism it is necessary to know something of the
apparatus. We therefore endeavor to give somewhat in detail the arrangement adopted by M.L.
Regray, chief engineer of the Chemin de Fer de l'Est, the electrical system being that of M.
Achard. An electro-magnet, A, is suspended on a hinged axis, so that the poles of the magnet
have for armatures cylinders of metal fixed upon the axle of the carriage. Suppose now the
poles, D D, of the magnet brought into contact with the revolving armatures, the friction between
them causes the magnet to revolve. The chain attached to the brake is fixed to the extended
axle of the magnet, and consequently when that axle revolves is wound up, bringing the brakes
upon the wheels. The friction between the poles and the armature depends upon the strength
of the magnet, and this can be regulated at will from a maximum to a minimum. But it will be
well to trace the whole action. The electric current may be obtained by means of Planté secondary
cells charged by Daniell's cells--in other words, one or two Daniell's cells are constantly
in action charging three or six Planté cells, and it is the Planté cells that are called into
action to electrify the magnet. The battery is carried in a box in the brake van. The engineers,
however, seem to prefer that the current be obtained by means of a small Gramme machine, driven
direct by a Brotherhood three-cylinder engine, the steam for which is obtained from the locomotive.
The velocity and hence the current of the Gramme machine can be regulated, and so the action
of the brakes. M. Achard prefers the Planté cells; he informs us that he has tried the Faure
battery, but the results obtained were not satisfactory. The regulator, R², consists of a cylinder
of wood around which, as shown, wire is wound. The length of this wire in the circuit, increasing
as it does the resistance of the circuit, determines the current to the electro-magnet. The
action is as follows: When it is necessary to apply the brakes, a simple pressure of a key
or the turn of a handle sends the electric current into the wires of the electro-magnet. An
attraction immediately takes place, and the poles and armatures are brought into contact. The
friction between these causes the revolution of the magnet, the winding of the chain around
the axle, and the application of the brakes. The whole of the brakes of the train enter into
action at one and the same time. The brakes are taken off by stopping the current, and a small
spring pulls and keeps the magnet from the armatures. A frame--also carriages--fitted with
this brake, are shown by the Compagnie des Chemins de Fer de l'Est, which company also shows
several other pieces of interesting apparatus, one of which is a carriage fitted with elaborate
mechanism, in which electricity plays, perhaps, but a subsidiary part, to obtain the traction
of the train under varying circumstances, the pressure on the buffers when stopping, and various
phenomena connected with the engine.--The Engineer.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELECTRICITY; WHAT IT IS, AND WHAT MAY BE EXPECTED OF IT.[1]

   [Footnote 1: A paper read before the Engineers' Society of
   Western Pennsylvania, Nov. 15, 1881.]

By JACOB REESE

In the consideration of this subject it is not my purpose to review the steps of discovery
and development of electrical phenomena, but the object of this paper is an effort to explain
what electricity is; and having done this, to deduce some reasonable conclusions as to what
may be expected of it. And while I am profoundly sensible of the importance of the subject,
and the difficulties attending its consideration, still with humble boldness I present this
paper and ask for it a serious and careful consideration, hoping that the discussion and investigation
resulting therefrom may add to our knowledge of physical science.

It is now a well established fact that matter, per se, is inert, and that its energy is derived
from the physical forces; therefore all chemical and physical phenomena observed in the universe
are caused by and due to the operations of the physical forces, and matter, of whatever state
or condition it may be in, is but the vehicle through or by which the physical forces operate
to produce the phenomena.

There are but two physical forces, i.e., the force of attraction and the force of caloric.
The force of attraction is inherent in the matter, and tends to draw the particles together
and hold them in a state of rest. The force of caloric accompanies the matter and tends to
push the particles outward into a state of activity.

The force of attraction being inherent, it abides in the matter continuously and can neither
be increased nor diminished; it, however, is present in different elementary bodies in different
degrees, and in compound bodies relative to the elements of which they are composed.

The force of caloric is mobile, and is capable of moving from one portion of matter to another;
yet under certain conditions a portion of caloric is occluded in the matter by the force of
attraction. That portion of caloric which is occluded (known by the misnomer, latent heat)
I shall call static caloric, and that portion which is in motion, dynamic caloric.

The force of attraction, as I have said, tends to draw the particles of matter together and
hold them in a state of rest; but as this force is inherent, the degree of power thus exerted
is in an inverse ratio to the distance of the particles from each other. The effective force
so exerted is always balanced by an equivalent amount of the force of caloric, and that modicum
of caloric so engaged in balancing the effective force of attraction is static, because occluded
in that work.

In solid or fluid bodies, where the molecules are held in a local or near relation to each
other, the amount of static caloric will be in direct proportion to the effective force of
attraction, but in gaseous bodies the static caloric is in an inverse ratio to the effective
force of attraction; hence the amount of static caloric present in solid and fluid bodies will
be greatest when the molecules are nearest each other, and greatest in gaseous bodies when
the molecules are furthest apart.

Caloric, whether static or dynamic, is not phenomenal; therefore the phenomena of light, temperature,
incandescence, luminosity, heat, cold, and motion, as well as all other phenomena, are due
to the movement of matter caused by the physical forces. Thus we find that temperature is a
phenomenal measure of molecular velocity, as we consider weight to be the measure of matter.

An increase of temperature denotes an increased molecular velocity, and this in solid and liquid
bodies unlocks a portion of the static caloric and converts it into dynamic caloric, while
an increased temperature of gases occludes additional caloric, thus converting dynamic into
static caloric; and a reduction of molecular activity reverses this action. From this we see
that a change of temperature either converts static to dynamic or dynamic to static caloric.

Thus we find that the amount of static caloric which a body possesses is in direct relation
to its temperature, but, as I have already explained, temperature is a phenomenal indication
of molecular velocity, and as increased velocity separates the molecules to a greater distance,
which reduces the effective force of attraction and unlocks a portion of caloric, it will be
seen that the separation of the molecules from any other cause will have the same effect. I
desire now to explain a second method by which the molecules are separated and static caloric
is changed to dynamic caloric.

It is not definitely known how much static caloric is occluded in either of the elementary
bodies, but it is believed that hydrogen possesses the greatest amount and oxygen the least.
Now if we take a molecule of hydrogen containing two atoms, and under proper conditions interpose
these atoms between 16 atoms of oxygen (one molecule), the phenomenon of combustion is exhibited,
and a molecule of water is formed containing 18 atoms; and if one pound of hydrogen is thus
consumed, the atoms of hydrogen are separated from each other to such a distance by the interposing
atoms of oxygen as to unlock 34,662 units C. of static, and convert it into dynamic caloric.
And if we thus bring a molecule of carbon containing 12 atoms in contact with a molecule of
oxygen of 16 atoms, combustion ensues and a molecule of carbonic oxide of 28 atoms is formed,
and if we then present another molecule of oxygen, combustion again takes place, and a molecule
of carbonic acid, containing 44 atoms, is produced. Now, in the combustion of one pound of
carbon in this manner, when the carbon is converted into carbonic oxide (CO), 2,473 units C.
of static is converted into dynamic caloric; and when this CO is converted into carbonic acid
(CO{2}) 5,607 additional units C. are unlocked. Thus by the combustion of one pound of carbon
to CO{2}, 8,080 units C. of static caloric are changed to dynamic caloric.

When caloric is thus unlocked from its occlusion it escapes with great velocity until an equilibrium
is attained, and in doing so it pushes the particles of matter out of its path. In solid bodies
this produces such a high degree of molecular movement as to exhibit the phenomena of incandescence
and luminosity, and in liquids increased mobility, while in gases the molecular activity may
be so great as to produce the phenomena of sound and light; and the more rapidly combustion
takes place the greater will be the volume and velocity of dynamic caloric escaping therefrom;
consequently with a slow combustion, the phenomena produced by dynamic caloric will be different
from those exhibited at a high degree.

Combustion, as I have before shown, is merely the oxidation of the material; nothing is consumed
nor annihilated, and, the phenomena vary with the velocity of oxidation. Now, if we take one
pound of zinc and place it in the acid cell of an electric battery, the oxygen of the acid
attacks the zinc and oxide of zinc is formed. In this operation the Zn molecule containing
65 atoms is united with one molecule of oxygen of 16 atoms, forming a molecule of oxide of
zinc (ZnO) of 81 atoms; and owing to the comparatively small number of oxygen atoms interposed
between the 65 atoms of zinc, only 1,301 units C. of static caloric are unlocked to the pound
of zinc, and the velocity of oxidation is so low, and the insulation of the vessel so perfect,
that the dynamic caloric is caused to flow outward through the copper wire.

ELECTRICITY.--What is it? Why, it is dynamic caloric. Now let us take this oxide of zinc (ZnO)
and place it with charcoal in a reducing apparatus which stands on an insulated table; the
apparatus is then heated, the carbon vaporizes, and this vapor of carbon (C) robs the oxide
of zinc (ZnO) of its oxygen, leaving metallic zinc (Zn) and carbonic oxide (CO). Now, for every
pound of zinc so formed 1,301 units C. of static caloric are transferred from the charcoal
to the zinc and occluded in it. Hence we find that the 1,301 units C. of caloric which we took
out of the zinc, and which we call electricity, is nothing else but the 1,301 units of static
caloric which was contained in the charcoal and from it set free by oxidation and transferred
to the zinc in the smelting process. Let us follow this matter a little further. Charcoal is
made by burning wood under such conditions as eliminate the water and hydrogen and leave the
carbon as a residuum which we call charcoal. Thus we find that the caloric contained in the
charcoal, transferred from the charcoal to the zinc, and from it developed into what we call
electricity, was previously embodied in the wood; and if we study the laws of vegetation, we
find that the atmosphere being charged with carbonic acid (CO{2}), the leaves of plants, shrubs,
and trees, breathing, take in the CO{2}, the sun rays decompose the CO{2}, set free the oxygen,
and supply the necessary amount of caloric for the condensed state of the carbon. Thus we find
that the force which we term electricity, developed from the oxidation of zinc, or any other
matter, by oxidation, primarily comes from the sun rays.

Coal is generally supposed to be of vegetable origin, and the caloric occluded in it is derived
from the same source as that embodied in charcoal. Now when we burn coal under a steam boiler,
the carbon and hydrogen are oxidized, and the static caloric set free. A portion of this caloric
passes through the shell or tubes of the boilers, and increases the molecular velocity of the
water; increased activity of the molecules tends to separate them to a greater distance from
each other. When the molecular velocity of the water acquires the degree indicated by a temperature
of 212 degrees F., the water passes from the fluid to the gaseous state, and in doing so expands
to 1,696 times its bulk. Now if the steam so developed be confined under a pressure of 105
pounds to the square inch, the water will not vaporize until a molecular velocity is attained
indicated by a temperature of 312° F. (Spons' "Engineering," D2, page 418), and then the expansion
is only 253 times its bulk. By using this steam, in a steam engine, the caloric in the steam
tends to push the molecules of which it is composed into an ultimate expansion of 1,696 times
the bulk of the water from which it was generated, and this force acts upon the piston and
does the work. Thus we see that the steam engine is driven by the same force which produces
the phenomena accredited to electricity.

I have already shown that in what we term combustion not a particle of the ponderable matter
is annihilated. Combustion is but a phenomenon resulting from a rearrangement of the particles,
and so it is with the imponderable physical force caloric; it is not consumed when light and
heat are produced, nor converted into power, as we are sometimes told. But whatever the phenomena
produced, the aggregate amount of static and dynamic caloric is always and ever the same.

If we consider the Ritter-Plant-Faure-Battery, which is mentioned as storing electricity, we
find that the phenomena exhibited by the use of this apparatus are produced by the same factor.
The battery is composed of two sheets of lead, which are covered with a layer of minium (Pb3O4).
The sheets are laid one upon the other with an intervening layer of felt. The pack is then
rolled up in a spiral form and placed in a vessel containing acidulated water. One of the plates
is connected with the positive, and the other plate with the negative pole of a battery or
generator.

When the current of electricity enters the battery, the Pb3O4 on the positive plate is reduced
to Pb, and the oxygen so set free attacks the Pb3O4 on the negative plate, and oxidizes it
to PbO2. In this chemical action, caloric is occluded in the Pb and unlocked in the PbO2, but
a much greater amount of caloric is locked up than is unlocked, although the amount of oxygen
used in both cases is precisely the same, which has been fully explained in the oxidation of
carbon.

Now after the battery has been thus charged and the wires disengaged, the chemical action ceases
for want of the reducing agent (dynamic caloric), and the apparatus may be held at rest, or
transported to any distance required. When it is desired to utilize the force thus stored,
the poles are changed by grounding the positive wire, and attaching the other to the conduit
through which the electricity is to flow. The chemical action is thus reversed, and the PbO2
is reduced to Pb3O4, the oxygen thus set free attacks the Pb on the other plate, oxidizing
it to Pb3O4, thus unlocking all the caloric which was occluded by the first action. In a battery
of this kind weighing 75 pounds, we are informed by Sir William Thomson, that one million foot
pounds of force may be stored, and again set free for use.

Thus we find that the principle upon which the Faure battery is formed is not new, and the
prime factor producing the phenomena is the same as has been shown to have caused all other
phenomena referred to, and indeed the principle is the same as now employed by the author in
the basic dephosphorizing process, i.e., caloric is occluded in phosphorus by smelting in a
blast furnace, and unlocked in the converter, for the purpose of securing the fluidity of the
metal during treatment. The difference being, that one is done by non-luminous, while the other
is by luminous combustion.

If we consider the phenomenon of light, we find that it is due to the same force. As before
stated, when we oxidize carbon, or hydrogen, as in the rapid combustion of wood, oil, or coal,
the escaping caloric flies off with such great speed as to cause the molecules in the circumambient
medium to assume a velocity which exhibits luminosity. Thus the light produced by burning candles,
oil, gas, wood, and coal, is caused by the same prime factor, dynamic caloric.

The force of caloric is imponderable and invisible, and is only known by its effects. We do
know that it is occluded in metals and other material, because we can unlock it and set it
free, or we can transfer it from one body to another, and by measuring its effects, we can
determine its quantity. We know that it prefers to travel over one vehicle more than another,
and by this knowledge we are able to insulate it, and thus conduct it in any direction desired.
The materials through which it passes with the greatest freedom are called conductors, and
the materials which most retard its passage, non-conductors; but these terms must be taken
in a comparative sense only, as in fact there are no absolute non-conductors of dynamic caloric,
or of what we call electricity.

The dynamo-electric generator simply draws the dynamic caloric from the air or earth, or both,
and confines it in an insulated path. Now if that path be a No. 10 wire, the conduit may be
sufficient to permit the caloric to pass without increasing the molecular velocity of the metal
to an appreciable degree, but if we cut the No. 10 wire and insert a piece of No. 40 platinum
wire in the path, the amount of caloric flowing through the No. 10 wire cannot pass through
the No. 40 wire, and the resistance so caused increases the molecular velocity of the No. 40
wire to such degree as to exhibit the phenomenon of incandescence, and this is the incandescent
electric light. And if we consider the carbon light, we find that the current of caloric, in
passing from one pencil to the other, produces a molecular velocity of luminosity in the adjoining
atmosphere, and in addition a portion of the carbon is consumed, which sets free an additional
amount of caloric, at a very high velocity, hence the intensity of the carbon electric light
is largely due to the dynamic caloric unlocked from the pencils, and thus we find that the
electric light produced by either method is due to the action of dynamic caloric.

Taking this theory based upon physical science, and the facts which we know pertaining to electricity,
I conceive that caloric exists in two conditions. Static caloric is what we call latent heat,
and dynamic caloric is what we call electricity. Therefore what may we expect of it (electricity)
is merely a matter of economy in the development and utilization of dynamic caloric; in other
words, can we unlock static caloric by non-luminous combustion, and thus develop dynamic caloric
as a first power more economically per foot pound than we now do or can hereafter do by luminous
combustion? Second, can we utilize water and wind for the production of dynamic caloric as
a first power? Third, can we utilize the differential tension of dynamic caloric in the earth
and the atmosphere as a first power? Fourth, will it pay to use luminous combustion as a first
power to generate dynamic caloric as a second power?

WHAT MAY WE EXPECT OF IT.

Let us take the steam engine, and see what we are now doing by luminous combustion. Good Pittsburg
coal contains 87 per cent. of carbon, 5 per cent. of hydrogen, 2 per cent. of oxygen and 6
per cent. of ash; we therefore have in one pound of such coal:

    8,080 × 9   14,544 × 87
    --------- = ----------- = 12,653 units in carbon.
        5           100

    34,662 × 9   62,391 × 5    3,119 units in hydrogen.
    ---------- = ---------- = ------
        5           100       15,772 units in coal.

15,772 × 772[2] = 12,175,984 foot pounds of energy is occluded in the static caloric contained
in one pound of such coal.

   [Footnote 2: Dr. Joule--foot pounds in one unit.]

A horse-power is estimated as capable of raising 33,000 pounds one foot high per minute, and
for this reason it is termed 33,000 foot pounds per minute. So we have 33,000 × 60 = 1,980,000
foot pounds per hour, as a horse-power.

The best class of compound condensing engines,[3] with all the modern improvements, require
1.828 pounds of coal per 1 h.p. per hour. Thus we have--

    12,175,984 × 1.828 .................22,257,699
    Foot pounds in one h.p. .............1,980,000
                                        ----------
    Foot pounds lost per h.p. ..........20,277,699

    Per cent utilized per h.p. ..............8.94
    Per cent lost per h.p. .................91.06
                                           ------
                                           100.00

   [Footnote 3: "American Engineer," Vol. II., No. 10, page 182.]

In the ordinary practice of stationary non-condensing engines, from three to four pounds of
coal are required per horse-power per hour. Now, taking the best of this class at 3 pounds,
we have--

    12,175,984 × 3 =      36,527,952
    One h.p.               1,980,000
                          ----------
    Loss per h.p.         34,547,952

    Per cent utilized per h.p.  5.42
    Per cent lost per h.p.     94.58
                              ------
                              100.00

From these facts it may be assumed that after making due allowance for variable qualities of
the coal, the steam engine process, as at present practiced, will not utilize more than from
5 to 10 per cent. of the energy contained in the fuel used. It will thus be seen that the process
of converting static to dynamic caloric by luminous combustion, by means of the steam engine,
is an exceedingly wasteful and costly method, and leaves much room for economy.

Taking an ordinary grade of petroleum as consisting of 13 per cent. hydrogen, 78 carbon, 6
oxygen, 3 nitrogen and ash, we have as its energy in foot pounds per pound of oil--

    62,391 × 13              }
    -----------  = 8,110 H.  }
         100                 }
                             } 19,454 units.
    14,544 × 78              }
    -----------  = 11,344 C. }
         100                 }

19,454 × 772 = 15,018,488 foot pounds. Thus, while our best coal contains twelve million, the
petroleum contains fifteen million foot pounds of occluded energy in each pound, which is equal
to 118,000,000 foot pounds, or 60 horse power for one hour, from one gallon of such oil.

At present electricity is generated by two methods, and both of these are second powers. Metals
are smelted by luminous combustion as a first power, and then oxidized by non-luminous combustion
as a second power, and coal is consumed by luminous combustion, by which steam is generated
as a first power, to drive a dynamo-generator whereby electricity is obtained as a second power.
Now, of the two methods, the latter is much the cheaper, and as I have shown that the best
compound condensing engines only utilize 8.94, and a fair average single cylinder condensing
engine only utilizes 5.42 per cent. of the energy of the fuel consumed, and as at the best
not over 70 per cent. of the foot pounds obtained from the engine can be utilized as electricity,
from which we must deduct loss by friction, etc., it will be readily seen that not more than
5 per cent. of the energy of the fuel can be developed by the dynamo-generator as electricity
by the present method.

The great want of the present age is a process by which the static caloric of carbon or a hydrocarbon
maybe set free by non-luminous combustion; or, in other words, a process by which coal or oil
may be oxidized at a low degree, within an insulated vessel; if this can be accomplished (and
I can see no reason why we should not look for such invention), we would be able to produce
from twelve to fifteen million foot pounds of energy (electricity) from one pound of petroleum,
or from ten to twelve million foot pounds from one pound of good coal, which would be a saving
of from 90 to 95 per cent. of present cost, and leave the steam engine for historical remembrance.

Electricity may be generated by water or wind power to great advantage, and conveyed to a distance
for motive power. The practicability of generating electricity at Niagara by which to propel
trains to New York and return may be considered almost settled; and I conceive a second invention
of importance which is now needed is an apparatus by which the rising and falling tides may
be utilized for driving dynamo machines, by which electricity may be generated for lighting
the coast cities, and it is not unreasonable to expect that such an apparatus will soon be
provided; and in such an event gas companies would suffer.

