(21) The revenue officer who falls in love with the moonshiner's daughter, and who is forced
to choose between love and duty.

(22) The Southern boy who enlists in the Federal army, and is cast out by his father for so
doing. Or the young Northerner who, acting as a Federal spy, falls in love with a Southern
girl, the daughter of a Confederate officer. There are dozens of variations of the Civil War
"brother against brother" plot, but all have been done so often that, unless you can give such
a theme a decidedly new "twist," it is much better not to send it out. And note that merely
to give the old theme a "Great War" setting is not to render it more acceptable.

(23) Stories requiring too much trick photography, and stories based upon "love pills," "foolish
powders," and other "influences."

"Editors and public tired long ago of the poor boy whose industry at last brought him the hand
of his employer's daughter; the pale-faced, sweet-eyed young thing whose heroism in stamping
out a fire enabled her to pay off the mortgage; the recovery of the missing will; the cruel
step-mother; answering a prayer which has been overheard; the strange case of mistaken identity;
honesty rewarded; a noble revenge; a child's influence; and so on to a long-drawn-out end."[26]

[Footnote 26: J. Berg Esenwein, Writing the Short-Story.]

In avoiding trite subjects the surest teachers are common sense, a wide reading, the constant
study of the photoplays seen on the screen, a friendly critic, and the printed rejection slip.
And do not forget this most important point: It is not so much the time-worn theme that makes
a story hackneyed as it is the threadbare development of the theme. A new "twist," a fresh
surprise, coming as the climax to an old situation, may redeem its hackneyed character. But
when you can combine a fresh theme with a new treatment you have reached the apex of originality.
Time spent in working on unhackneyed lines will save you many later heartaches.

8. Inconsistent Situations

A word or two concerning inconsistencies in film stories. While the inconsistencies and absurdities
occasionally seen on the screen are often traceable to the director alone, the writer must
do his share toward eliminating what is incorrect or out of place. Take for instance the Red
Cross in war-pictures. The introduction of the Red Cross into American Civil War pictures was
something that one of the present writers had commented upon and criticized two or three years
before Mr. Herbert Hoagland, of Pathé Frères American company, wrote his helpful little book
on the technique of the photoplay[27], but, since Mr. Hoagland puts it so comprehensively in
that work, what he says is quoted here:

"In a Civil War story the scenario called for a field hospital with the Red Cross flag flying
from a staff. Well, the Red Cross wasn't organized until the closing year of the war, and then
it was done in Switzerland. The Southerners and the Yankees never saw this emblem of mercy
during the whole four years of strife."

[Footnote 27: Herbert Case Hoagland, How to Write a Photoplay.]

Following the foregoing paragraph in his book, Mr. Hoagland speaks of another script in which
an officer in Confederate uniform is informed by a courier--in Confederate uniform--that war
had been declared between the North and the South. "But," the Pathé censor of scripts remarks,
"there was no gray uniform of the Confederacy before the C.S.A. was formed!"

As one critic has remarked, "Screen credit for the author may not bring him the credit for
which he is looking." In other words, if the director bungles a scene or allows some historical
or other inaccuracy to creep into the picture, the blame may be placed by the unthinking spectator
on the author--or even, in case of the picture's being an adaptation of a novel, on the writer
who prepared the continuity, or scenario. Thus, while what Mr. Hoagland wrote was written in
1912, the Red Cross flag was seen waving bravely in Paralta's "Madame Who?", produced in 1918,
and we feel sure that neither Mr. Harold MacGrath, who wrote the novel, nor Mr. Monte M. Katterjohn,
the staff-writer who wrote the scenario, was responsible for the error.

So it will be seen that the photoplaywright may easily find himself under the fire not only
of the professional critic, but also of the lay patron and of his brother writers. Do not,
therefore, risk anything that may, so to speak, make it easier for the director to "go wrong."
To quote Davy Crockett's motto, "Be sure you're right; then go ahead."

As an example of what may happen if you fail to observe this warning, consider the Vitagraph
release, "A Wasted Sacrifice," referred to in the previous chapter.[28] The big "punch" in
this story, as already pointed out, was where the young squaw steps on the concealed rattlesnake.
Women in the audience screamed; men felt the proverbial "cold chill" run down their spines.
Then came the climax, in which the young Westerner, hoping to save the life of the papoose,
takes it away from the dead mother and hurries back to meet the doctor-sheriff who is pursuing
him with the posse. The doctor tells him that the child is dead; his sacrifice--from which
the story derives its title--has been unnecessary. The poison, drawn from the breast of the
stricken woman by the nursing child, has killed the baby. A real "punch," indeed! But wait.
A prominent physician in an Eastern city writes to the producing company protesting that it
is impossible for a child to draw poison into its system in the manner described. And the physician
knows! In other words, what happened in the picture could not happen in real life. The backbone
of the plot has been broken! Seven in ten people might not know the difference; they would
never question the probability of the scene. The other three in ten would know, and, seeing
your name on the film, would put you down as a first-class "nature faker," or else as a very
careless and badly informed writer. And remember that even though the director may be the one
most to blame for not taking the trouble to verify the action introduced into your story before
putting it on, you will be the one blamed by those in the studio, and your next story will
undoubtedly be looked at askance, and probably rejected.

[Footnote 28: See synopsis in Chapter VIII.]

CHAPTER XVII

WHAT YOU SHOULD WRITE

"With inventiveness and imagination the most commonplace, the everyday-life subject, such as
the ills and cares we have to bear, becomes, by a proper exposition of human nature under those
conditions, a story both entertaining and instructive. But entertaining first, instructive
second; to try to be instructive is to cease to be entertaining.

"The strength of a story consists in the eloquence, vividness, and sincerity with which a given
problem in human life or character is presented. Human nature is made up of all sorts of traits--selfishness,
cupidity, self-sacrifice, courage, loyalty. All life is made up ... of a compromise between
elements in the struggle for happiness. These elements make for the story, happiness being
the chief factor for which humanity is searching."

Though written for short-story writers, these words from an article by Mr. Floyd Hamilton Hazard
are so true, and so applicable to the writing of photoplays, that we reproduce them here.

Substantially similar ideas were advanced by Mr. Daniel Frohman, the theatrical impresario,
in an interview in the New York Sun, and no one will doubt the close relationship which exists
between the general principles of plot-structure as applied to the "legitimate" drama and to
the photoplay.

We may now see the first big element in all vitally dramatic themes:

1. The Human Appeal

"Your script," wrote a certain editor in returning a young writer's photoplay, "needs to be
introduced to the 'H.I.' twins--Heart Interest and Human Interest. Those two elements are responsible
for the sale of more manuscripts than anything else with which the writer has to do."

In choosing a theme for your photoplay, then, constantly bear in mind the great truth that,
no matter how original, how interesting, or how cleverly constructed your plot may be, it will
be sadly lacking unless it contains a goodly percentage of one or both of these desirable qualities.
The frequently-quoted formula of Wilkie Collins, "Make 'em laugh, make 'em cry, make 'em wait,"
simply sums up the proper procedure when you set out to win the interest and sympathy of the
spectators. "The greatest aid in selling scripts is the injection of the human-interest bits.
Every effective bit of business concisely told helps the sale because it helps the editor,"
Mr. Sargent remarks in one of his criticisms. "Reach your readers' hearts and brains," says
Arthur S. Hoffmann, editor of Adventure, in The Magazine Maker. And then, after citing the
dictum of Wilkie Collins, he adds: "Make 'em hate, like, sympathize, think. Give them human
nature, not merely names of characters."

When all is said, you can hope to reach the minds of the masses only by first reaching their
hearts.

2. Writing for All Classes

Notwithstanding the great advances in the art of moving-picture production during the last
few years, and the corresponding improvement in the film-stories shown, the great mass of photoplay
patrons are still, as they always were, of the middle class. Better pictures have gradually
drawn into the picture theatres a more highly educated type of patron, but very few exhibitors
would stay in business if the middle-class spectators were to discontinue their attendance.
The average working man can take his little family to the picture theatre, say once a week,
for fifty cents, whereas it would cost him about that sum for one poor seat in a first-class
regular theatre. Hence the immense popularity of the picture theatre, and hence too the necessity
for effort on the part of the theatre manager to please all his patrons.

First, of course, he must please the majority, but he must by no means overlook the tastes
of the minority. Every man, as the wise proprietor knows, enjoys most what he understands best.
The plain people are not necessarily the unintelligent ones, for the working man can both understand
and enjoy pictured versions of Dante's Inferno and Sophocles' Oedipus Rex, but he will feel
more at home while watching a picture of contemporary American life; and who shall say, provided
the photoplay be a good one, that he is not receiving as much profit therefrom as from the
film version of either of the classics!

The really successful photoplaywright is nothing if not versatile. Unless he is content to
have a very limited market, he more than any other type of professional writer must be able
to write for all classes.

Furthermore, he must be able to write on a variety of themes. The photoplaywright who can produce
only Western dramas, or stories dealing with slum life, will find his sales averaging very
low as compared with the author who can construct a society drama, a Western story, a photoplay
of business life, a story of the Kentucky mountains, or still other types. To be able to write
photoplays that will appeal to every class of photoplay patron is the supreme test of the photoplaywright.

These words of a celebrated French novelist and playwright, Ludovic Halévy, are worthy of attention:

"We must not write simply for the refined, the blasé, and the squeamish. We must write for
that man who goes there on the street with his nose in his newspaper and his umbrella under
his arm. We must write for that fat, breathless woman whom I see from my window, as she climbs
painfully into the Odéon omnibus. We must write courageously for the bourgeois, if it were
only to try to refine them, to make them less bourgeois. And if I dared, I should say that
we must write even for fools."

3. A High Quality of Imagination Demanded

Another well-known French dramatist, Marcel Prevost, who is a photoplaywright as well, in a
recent issue of the Paris Figaro replied to a question whether motion pictures are harmful
to the legitimate theatre, by stating that, while he likes the pictures, their authors are
lacking in imagination.

That there is a great deal of truth in what M. Prevost says seems to be proved by the fact
that when famous playwrights and best-selling authors have supplied photoplay plots to the
manufacturers, they have been exceptionally well paid. We refer, of course, to stories specially
written for the photoplay stage, for when a film manufacturer produces a story by a well-known
fiction writer, which originally appeared in novel or in short-story form, the manufacturer
does business with the author's publishers, unless the author has specifically reserved for
himself all dramatic rights--a practice which, by the way, is becoming more and more general.

An editorial in Motography says: "The best motion picture dramas produced today are reproductions
of literary classics. These films do not achieve immortality; they merely further assure the
immortality of the original work. Why cannot a photodrama be produced that is fine enough to
live on its own merit--why must the picture always seem to be secondary while literature and
the drama continue to furnish the primary motives?

"The answer lies in the peculiar requirements of photoplay authorship. The writer of printed
fiction is a master of words. He revels in artful phrases and unique constructions. He woos
immortality not by his plots, but by his clever handling of words--his 'style'." And then the
editor goes on to say that the photodrama will become great when it has developed its own great
men. "The photoplay author of fame," he says, "must be a specialist."

This also is true; but at the same time he must, as in any other profession, first of all be
a student. He must serve his apprenticeship; and while he is serving his apprenticeship he
must cultivate the imagination which M. Prevost declares to be so essential.

Imagination cannot be developed by remaining in a rut. Experience is not only the best teacher,
but the very finest developer of thought, and of a vivid and facile imagination. Thus constant
practice causes the building of plots to become a sort of second nature.

Granting that you have the technical skill to develop the plots you evolve, the question which
you have to answer is: What are the most suitable themes for photoplays?

No one can give you such a list, though he may do what has been attempted in another chapter--furnish
a moderately full list of what not to choose as themes. Some general positive principles, however,
are important, and these are now to be considered.

4. Write of What You Know

The fact that the market is wide makes it the less excusable when a writer courts rejection
by attempting themes with which he is not familiar. If you live on an Eastern or Middle-West
farm, or in a small town, remember that--especially between the months of May and September--the
film companies almost without exception are looking for good stories of country life. Then
why try to write stories of business life in a large city, of society, of theatrical or circus
life, or even of the far West, until you have succeeded with a few stories that might easily
be set within a short distance of where you live? Correct and faithful local color, at times,
has much to do with selling a story, though you always need a good idea and a clever plot.

The same rule, naturally, should be followed by the young writer whose home is in a large city.
If you can turn out a good, original story truthfully portraying New York's East Side, Broadway,
or Wall Street; Chicago's "Loop" district; the social and political life of Washington, or
any other such background, there is an editor waiting to purchase that story.

All this is not to say that you must write only of things which are, or have been, within the
range of your personal experience. Many a writer has successfully built his story on well-verified
second-hand knowledge. If you are not familiar with the subject at first-hand, and cannot get
direct, personal information, get the knowledge from books and periodicals, but get it exactly--squeeze
the last drop of information from the subject. If there is no library in your town, search
your own as well as borrowed books and magazines until you find at least enough correct data
to enable you to turn out a script that will not betray second-hand knowledge. Jules Verne
had only indirect knowledge of most of the countries which he depicted, yet to read his books
one would believe that he had travelled everywhere. Because he had read up on and investigated
his subjects he was able to produce such thoroughly convincing, and always interesting, books
as "A Tour of the World in Eighty Days," "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea," and "The
Clipper of the Clouds," in which he wrote, and apparently authoritatively, of almost every
country on the globe.

Until your work is pretty well known by the editors, it is just as well not to attempt to write
historical dramas. But if you do write them, the greatest care must be taken to adhere closely
to facts, especially in composing scripts in which famous historical personages figure. Three
or four years ago a certain company that made a specialty of two- and three-part historical,
Western, and military dramas, was called to account by an army officer in Washington for having
brought out a photoplay of pioneer life which held up a well-known officer of the United States
army in a rather bad light by making him responsible for an act of great injustice to a famous
Indian chieftain. The author of the photoplay--whether a staff-writer or a free lance--was
doubtless unaware that he was doing an injustice to the memory of a gallant and kind-hearted
American soldier; but, however the picture came to be written, it elicited the strong disapproval
of someone who knew, and who did not hesitate to tell the makers that a mistake had been made.

Manufacturers have to be careful; they cannot afford to offend anyone. Moreover, the motion
picture has come to be looked upon as a great educational factor, and no picture can be truly
educational that is not strictly accurate. If you want to write historical photoplays after
you have become known to the editors, very well; but be sure that you adhere closely to historical
facts. It is far better to spend a week in the reference room of the public library than to
have to suffer a rebuke from a manufacturer, even though the director be also to blame for
not being familiar with the subject before attempting to make the picture. And the loss of
your prestige may prove harder to bear than the rebuke.

5. Write on What Interests You

Next in importance to writing on a subject with which you are familiar is to write about that
with which you are in sympathy. You cannot interest your audience unless you yourself are interested
in your theme when the story is written. If you would arouse fire in your spectators you must
first feel fire within you. To write a story merely because it is timely is not to do yourself
justice. Suppose, for instance, it is about time for a new president to go into office. It
may occur to you that to send in a script bearing upon that timely subject will be a sure way
of "coaxing a check from the editor." You have some slight knowledge of politics and of Washington
life, but you are not particularly interested in either. You are, however, anxious to sell
a script, so you read up on the subject and work up a photoplay. The chances are that you will
continue to own the script, for you did not put the snap into it that you would have done had
you been both familiar with your theme and genuinely interested in it.

6. Write on Unusual Themes

Many a writer is deterred from developing an unusual theme for fear that no company will be
found to produce it. Enough has been said on this subject to warn the photoplaywright against
writing impracticable scenes. But with this limitation in view every effort should be made
to strike into untravelled fields. In a day when most of the big manufacturers have two or
three, or even more, field-companies operating in different parts of the country, when almost
every maker of films has an Eastern and a Western organization, and when several companies
have a "globetrotting" troupe working in some distant part of the world, there is very little
chance of a thoroughly good and desirable photoplay plot's failing to find acceptance, provided
it is intelligently marketed. No matter where you may live, no matter what you may write of,
if it is good it will sell--some editor is waiting for it. But you must find that editor.

7. Write Stories Requiring Only Action

In selecting your theme, ask yourself if either dialogue or description may not be really required
to bring out the theme satisfactorily. If such is the case, abandon the theme. The comparatively
few inserts permitted cannot be relied upon to give much aid--the chief reliance must be pantomime.

For this reason it is inadvisable to write detective stories, unless you have a plot that can
be easily and convincingly told in action. The average fictional story of this class depends
more upon dialogue and the author's explanation of the sleuth's methods of deduction than upon
rapid and gripping action. In a fictional detective story, the crime usually has happened before
the story opens. In a film story, this would be impracticable, unless a long explanatory insert
were introduced either before or after the first scene or two. But long inserts are not wanted,
even in multiple-reel stories. Since events in a photoplay must appear in chronological order,
you cannot depict murder without showing the murderer in the act, and that will soon bring
you counter to the censors.

Aside from the consideration of the censorship is this point: in a fictional detective story
the real murderer is not revealed, in most cases, until the last chapter. In the photoplay,
on the other hand, it would be necessary to show the spectator almost at the first who the
real murderer is--the other characters in the picture, and not the spectators, being the ones
in doubt as the story progressed.

This is a difficult condition to bring about effectively. Still, it can be done, and there
is a chance for a writer who can produce logical and interesting detective scripts, as there
is always a market for any uncommon theme that is both original and handled with technical
correctness.

An author who is anonymous has said "While the story may have for a plot a subject involving
complication, or mystery, each scene must be easily understood, or the audience, taxed by trying
to fathom motives or emotions with which it is unfamiliar, or with which it is not in sympathy,
loses the thread of the story, and consequently pronounces the photoplay lacking in interest.
Remembering the brevity of the film drama, compactness and simplicity in every feature are
to be desired. It does not require a great cast of characters nor unusually spectacular scenic
work to produce the big idea. The depths of human woe and suffering, or the very heights of
joy and attainment, can be pictured in a flash. The dramatic story should consist of a strong
and preferably unique plot, simple and direct in its appeal to the heart, and expressed or
conveyed to the audience by a logical sequence of episodes or incidents, all having direct
bearing on the story, and each one of sufficient strength to hold the attention of the spectators.
The story must be human, the characters and their motives and actions human and true to life.
The drama is perfect as it reflects a correct imitation of nature."

8. Write Mainly of Characters That Arouse the Spectator's Sympathy

Each hero must have his opposite, as each great cause must have its protagonist and antagonist.
Indeed, as we have seen, it is this warfare that makes all drama possible. But it will not
do to glorify the doer of evil deeds and thus corrupt the sympathies of the spectators. The
hero and not the "villain" must swing the sympathies of those who see. Be certain, therefore,
that pity for, and even sympathy with, a wrong-doer is not magnified, through the action of
your play, into admiration by the onlookers, for in the photoplay as in the legitimate drama
the leading character may be a great offender. This way danger lies, however, and you must
walk with extreme caution, or the censors "will catch you--if you don't watch out!"--to say
nothing of the lashings of your own conscience.

Without repeating what was said in Chapter XVI regarding the introduction of crime into film
stories, we would impress upon the photoplaywright the necessity for always having a fully
sufficient, though not necessarily a morally justifiable, motive for any crime that is introduced
in a story; besides, the introduction of a crime must be necessary to the action and not a
mere spectacular scene. But remember that it is not sufficient to avoid "crime without motive;"
the motive must be one which will, after the crime has been committed, leave no doubt in the
mind of the spectator that the crime was virtually inevitable, if not absolutely unavoidable.
If it is the hero of the story who commits the crime, the very greatest care must be taken
to show that he had a really powerful motive for his act, if he is to have the sympathy--though
not the approval--of the audience after yielding to temptation.[29] This, of course, does not
refer to deeds of violence which are really not only excusable but actually right, in the circumstances--like
the killing of an attacking desperado in self-defense.

[Footnote 29: To make this basic motive clear, natural and unforced is what we call good motivation
in fiction and drama.]

As an example of the point we are trying to emphasize, take a story like "The Bells," the play
in which Sir Henry Irving appeared so often. Mathias the innkeeper, who later became the Burgomaster,
was a character, who, by reason of Irving's superb art, won and held the sympathies of the
audience from the start. Yet after Mathias had murdered the Polish Jew and robbed him of his
belt of gold, even the art of Irving could not have made us sympathize with the character had
we not been shown that Mathias was urged on to his crime--a crime for which he was constantly
tortured ever afterward, and which occasioned his tragic death--by two very compelling motives.
His primary motive was the urgent need of money. But he had a two-fold need of money: he had
been notified by the landlord that he must pay his over-due rent or be turned out of his home;
and he had been told by the doctor that unless he could immediately remove his sick wife to
a milder climate she would certainly die. Thus, impelled by the thought that only by the speedy
acquisition of sufficient money could he hope to save the life of his wife, he commits the
deed which he would never have committed had his only motive been the necessity for raising
money to pay the rent. Mathias was esteemed by his neighbors as an honest man; he was a man
whose conscience smote him terribly when he was contemplating the murder of the Jew; and after
the crime had been committed--fifteen years later, in fact--that same guilty conscience, wracking
his very soul, drove him on to his death.

Shakespeare's Macbeth is a character with whom we are forced to sympathize measurably, because
we know that he is not naturally a criminal. Yet, after all, Macbeth is a man who--as Professor
Pierce has pointed out--"has been restrained in the straight path of an upright life [only]
by his respect for conventions." Mathias, on the other hand, is not held in check by conventions;
he is essentially an honest man. He commits a crime, but what stronger motive could a man have
than the one that drove him on to its commission? And yet--and this is the mistake that we
wish to point out to the young writer--seven years ago a certain company released "The Bells"
as a two-part subject, in which, according to the synopsis published in the trade journals,
Mathias's only motive for committing the most detestable of all crimes was that he was behind
in his rent! Even the magazine that gave in fiction form the story of the picture failed to
mention what is brought out so strongly in the play--the innkeeper's distress at the thought
that his wife's life depended upon his being able to raise the money to send her to the south
of France without delay. The author mentioned that Mathias had a sick wife, but that was all.
The whole treatment of the story in fiction form, moreover, was farcical, such names as "Mr.
Parker" being intermingled with those of the well-known characters, "Mathias," "Christian,"
and "Annette," while the wealthy, dignified Polish Jew was turned into a typical East-side
clothing merchant. The real fault lay with the producer who, ignoring the great and pressing
necessity that prompted Mathias's crime, garbled the original plot to the extent of allowing
the innkeeper to murder the Jew because (according to the fiction-version in the magazine)
he needed one hundred and seventy-five dollars to pay the rent! First, last, and all the time
you must remember that your story is not a good story if the leading character is not, at all
times, deserving of the spectator's sympathy, even when his action is not worthy of approval.

It is a matter for real regret to have to be compelled to state that, in spite of the many
artistic advances made in motion-picture production during the past six or seven years, this
most important point was deliberately overlooked when the Pathé Company made its very fine
feature-production of "The Bells" in the Fall of 1918. We say "deliberately overlooked" because
the writer who prepared the scenario for this modern five-reel version had the same opportunity
as had the scenarioist who made the other adaptation, years ago, to read the original stage-play
and to introduce this most compelling motive for Mathias's crime. If anything, the fault is
more glaring in the Pathé production than in the older picture, for the wife is shown as a
woman in apparently perfect health, although naturally worried by the fact that her husband's
inability to raise the required amount of money may result in their losing both their home
and their means of livelihood. All the fine acting of Mr. Frank Keenan as Mathias, and all
the wonderful scenic and lighting effects, were not sufficient to make us lose sight of the
fact that the ones responsible for the picture's production had not given proper thought to
the necessity for showing that the innkeeper had an unusually compelling motive for taking
the life of and then robbing his guest. And, make no mistake, no matter how fine the production
may be in other respects, this sort of thing is not overlooked by the intelligent, right-minded
spectator of the photoplay.

9. The Theme and the Market

With regard to what are known as "costume plays"--and what we say is intended to apply to original
stories, since it is never wise to attempt an adaptation of a popular book or play, even though
you are armed with the right to do so, unless you have previously taken the matter up with
some producing company--there is, perhaps, as was pointed out in Chapter XV, twice as much
chance to sell such stories as there was a few years ago, since today every company is doing
things in a much bigger way than in former years. But this must not be construed as meaning
that the different companies are simply looking about for new ways to spend money. On the contrary,
economy--sensible economy--is becoming more and more the keynote of film production. In every
department, unnecessary expense is done away with. This applies to both the purchasing and
the producing of photoplays. Better prices are being paid, yes; but stories calling for what
appears to be unnecessarily expensive settings or costuming are usually rejected. That is why
you may rest assured that no costume plays will sell unless they have a strong and unusual
story back of them. Again, by "costume" plays we mean stories ranging all the way from Bible
times down to American Civil War times. What is regarded by the editor as a costume play, also,
may not be wholly that; it may be a story in which only a few of the scenes are laid in a past
age, as when, in the Paramount production of "The Devil Stone," the heroine, in a series of
"visions," sees herself as the wicked Norse queen of centuries before, and learns how the fatal
emerald first came into her possession.

There is absolutely no way of knowing what company will be most likely to buy a so-called costume
play. If you honestly believe that you have the material for an unusual story calling for settings
or costumes of other days--or even of our own day but of foreign lands--go ahead and write
a comprehensive synopsis of it. If you send it to a company which asks for synopses only, you
will be playing safe whether it interests them or not. If, on the other hand, you plan to submit
it to a concern which likes to pass on a full script, with both synopsis and scenario, you
can send in the synopsis alone and explain that if they are at all interested in that, you
will submit the continuity of action.

As might be expected, stories of this kind are usually written in the studio, because the staff-writer
has the opportunity of finding out just when and where the picture can be made, what types
of male and female players will be able to take part in it, and what special effects he may
include. Still, to repeat, many of the bars against costume plays and stories calling for foreign
and other hard-to-get settings have been taken down in the last year or two; but the demand
for only strong, interesting stories is more insistent than ever, and you must still observe
the rule--which, it may be added, will never change--of acquiring a thorough knowledge of the
different markets if you wish to sell your stuff regularly and to the best advantage.

Themes! They are everywhere. The pathetic, the tragic, the humorous--countless admirable photoplays
are to be drawn from these sources. And the most encouraging thought is this: Given the same
basic idea for a plot, no two people will work it out in exactly the same way. Individuality
will make a difference. "Happiness," as Mr. Floyd Hamilton Hazard has said, "does not always
mean the same thing to everybody. It means many different things to different people. It is
a theme upon which many varied tunes can be played."

In conclusion, we quote and warmly endorse this advice from Mr. Herbert Hoagland, censor of
photoplays for Pathé Frères.

"Select for your theme an idea which embodies good things. Avoid anything coarse or suggestive.
Make your stories clean, wholesome, happy--a dainty love story, a romantic adventure, a deed
gloriously accomplished, a lesson well learned, an act of charity repaid--anything of a dramatic
nature which is as honest as daylight. Good deeds are just as dramatic as wicked deeds, and
clean comedy is far and away more humorous than coarseness. Keep away from scenes of brutality,
degeneracy, idiocy or anything which may bring a poignant pang of sorrow to some one of the
millions of people who will see your story in the pictures, unless the pang will be one of
remorse for a bad deed done or a good deed left undone. In a word, help the film-makers produce
films which will help those who see them, and make the whole world a little better for your work."

CHAPTER XVIII

THE TREATMENT OF COMEDY

Let it be remembered that the lines of division between the several sorts of comedy are not
sharply defined, for one often overlaps the other; nor is a rigid adherence to type insisted
upon by either playwright or public--for example, on the regular stage we have farce-comedy,
and other hybrids.

1. Types of Humorous Plays Distinguished

Comedy, strictly, is a lighter, more refined, type of humor than farce. It deals with those
amusing situations which do, or may, happen every day, without the introduction of the extravagant
and the unnatural. True comedy is distinctly probable. Its humor is the humor of reality, however
laughable it may be. It may press humor to an extreme, but that extreme must never strain our
credulity.

Farce is essentially extreme. It deals with the absurd, the ridiculous, not with the physically
impossible. Though not in itself probable, all its actions proceed just as though the basis
on which it is worked out were probable.

To illustrate both types, we may recall an extremely humorous comedy situation which was worked
out by Miss May Irwin some years ago in "The Swell Miss Fitzwell." One of the characters had
conspired with a physician to deceive the former's wife by pretending to break his leg. As
a matter of fact he tumbles down stairs with an awful clatter and the leg is actually broken.
The doctor comes in, according to the scheme, and, not knowing that the leg is broken, begins
to twist it with fine professional vigor. The victim howls and protests that he is in agony,
but the doctor merely whispers in a cheerful aside, "Keep it up, you are playing your part
beautifully!" And so the play goes on.

All this might easily have happened in real life, and the audience is tickled--not to see a
man apparently suffer, but at the humor of the biter being bit. The very incongruity is the
foundation of the humor--incongruity, mingled with surprise.

But farce would not be content with twisting the leg, it would go to any absurd extreme imaginable.
Suppose, for example, that the doctor's twisting of the victim's leg should so enrage him that
he would leap upon the doctor and bite the torturer's leg in the manner of a dog. The wife,
coming in, might think that her husband had hydrophobia, and a whole train of farcical results
might follow. We have all seen unnatural yet uproariously funny situations to which such a
complication might lead in farce.

Burlesque takes a well-known and often a serious subject and hits off its salient points in
an uproarious manner. One might burlesque "Hamlet" by causing a red-nosed Prince of Denmark
to do a juggling act with "poor Yorick's" skull.

Extravaganza deals with the unnatural and the impossible. The super-human antics of the acrobatic
buffoons in Hanlon's perennial "Superba," and those of the Byrne Brothers in "Eight Bells,"
are familiar examples.

2. Comedy a Difficult Art

A writer in one of the photoplay journals, advising writers who are struggling to succeed,
concludes by admonishing them either to avoid stories which because of prohibited themes are
likely to make them unpopular with editors, or else to "try comedies."

It may be that this writer is one of those who have never tried to write comedy scripts, or
possibly he is one of the favored few who have a special talent for humor. Whichever may be
the case, notwithstanding this well-meant advice, the truth is that the thoroughly effective
comedy script is the hardest of all to produce, and this is proved by the fact that, no matter
how many manufacturers announce that they "will not be able to use any more Western, slum life,
or war stories for some time to come," they never declare that they are "over-stocked with
good comedy scripts." There is always a market for a fine, clean comedy.

3. Comedy Requires a "Full" Treatment

But superior comedy scripts, we insist, are hard to write. One of the less obvious reasons
is that there are generally about twice as many scenes in a comedy script as in any kind of
dramatic story. This does not mean, of course, that the comedy script is hard to write merely
because it takes longer to write it. The labor expended on its mechanical preparation is trivial
compared to the brain-work necessary to the building of a story which, while having almost
double the usual number of scenes, must still display lively action, logical sequence, and
convincing (which in the case of comedy means probable) situations from beginning to end.

Especially in comedy must each scene tell; hence there can be no excuse for "writing in" a
number of scenes which have no dramatic value whatever, for that is palpable padding. True,
you may have seen many comedy subjects in which one or two fairly good ideas were stretched
out until you could almost picture the director kneeling in front of the camera, stop-watch
in hand and megaphone at lips, wearily pleading: "Ginger up! Work fast! It will soon be over."
Unfortunately, there have been many such "funny" plays, and there will be more, for the right
kind of comedy is not to be had for the asking. The number of scenes in a comedy photoplay
arises from the necessity that the action be brisk, scene follow scene rapidly, and the whole
be played from a full third to a half faster than is the case in a dramatic subject.

To say that comedy requires a fuller script-treatment than is needed for a dramatic subject
does not mean that in writing comedy scripts you should write in line after line of action
that would only be useful to give the director a few details which he could very well think
of himself. No matter what part of the script you are writing, be constantly on the alert to
avoid including non-essential details. Take pains, of course, to show the director just what
bit of by-play it is that is responsible for a certain situation that will "get a laugh," but
do not be verbose, and do not go into tiresome details. "It is a very easy matter, for a writer
fired with enthusiasm, to overwrite."

4. Length of Comedy Photoplays

Seemingly, the day of the split-reel comedy is past. A few years ago, when one thousand feet
was considered the proper length for the average dramatic subject, a full-reel comedy was the
exception. They ran from four hundred to six hundred feet, the remainder of the reel being
taken up with a scenic or other educational subject. Thus we had what came to be known as "split
reels," as we have previously explained. Today, even the slap-stick comedies are produced in
not less than one full reel, and they usually run to two reels. On the other hand, there are
one or two comedy-producing companies which adhere to the single-reel length for their light
comedies of domestic life.

Far more than in writing dramatic scripts, you must be guided in deciding the length of your
comedy photoplay by the company to which you are submitting. This entails taking a chance as
to whether you sell at all or not, in the event of your story's not being suitable for the
market at which you have aimed it. For example, those writers who have both sold to and had
scripts rejected by the editor who looks after the wants of such a comedy team as Mr. and Mrs.
Sidney Drew know that if a script does come back from them it is seldom "placable" anywhere
else. For markets such as this, the fact that a synopsis only is usually called for is a real
benefit to the writer, saving him much time and disappointment in the event of non-acceptance.

Another thing that experienced writers know is that certain of the larger producers of slap-stick
comedy are not in the market for outside material. After being deluged with all kinds of "comedy"
stories for years, the Keystone Company finally found it necessary to announce that nothing
could be considered from free-lance writers, on account of the peculiar nature of the comedies
produced by them and the necessity of having them written by inside writers who were familiar
with the studio, its players, and the surrounding possible locations.

Thus, in its way, the market for comedy scripts or synopses is more or less limited, and yet
there is, as has been said, a good demand for first-class humorous stories for the screen.
One important rule to keep in mind is that they should be, in every case, just as long as,
but no longer than, the idea that is back of them. You must never pad a comedy plot, or even
a comedy idea; to do so is fatal to the attainment of artistically perfect results, if not
to its acceptance by the editor.

In writing dramatic stories, on the other hand, more freedom is allowed. To be sure, here padding
is bad also, but in a dramatic subject the central idea is almost always big enough to justify
one of the several lengths to which screen dramas now run; but, largely because comedy action
is played so much faster than dramatic action, you must firmly refuse to allow yourself to
expand a humorous story by even so little as a single scene beyond its logical and natural end.

Comedy ideas, perhaps more than any others, should be carefully classified, and in classifying
you should try to determine, from the very first, the length to which that particular story
ought to run. Having once arrived at your decision, keep to it. It is quality--clever situations
and funny action--and not quantity that counts in the writing of humorous photoplays. Most
of the good comedy themes have been worked over so often, either by the authors themselves
or by the director, that it requires considerable skill to give them that much-desired new
twist[30] that is necessary to make them acceptable. In the writing of dramatic photoplays,
a word or two will often suggest the necessary "business" of a certain character, but in comedy
it is especially important that every action, every bit of by-play, should be made to count;
and for that reason it is necessary to give each scene a much fuller treatment in the script
than would be necessary in describing dramatic action.

[Footnote 30: Treated in Chapter XIX.]

5. Classes of Photoplay Comedy and Their Requirements

While the written-and-spoken drama recognizes not only the four major types of humorous plays
already referred to, but several sub-types in addition, there are only three general classes
under which humorous photoplays are usually grouped: (a) Comedy-Drama, (b) Light-Comedy and
(c) Farce.

Of the comedies, two kinds are in almost constant demand--the comedy of society life, and the
comedy of everyday life, with special emphasis upon domestic scenes. In treatment, these two
kinds may be cast in any of the three foregoing forms, but usually they will adhere to the
principle of comedy, even when they may verge on farce, or take on certain aspects of the more
intense dramatic tone.

When writing photoplay comedies, remember always that comedy of action is more important than
comedy of idea. That is, it is not enough that you work up to a funny climax, but the action
leading up to the climax must be funny as well. A humorous idea underlying your comedy is good,
but unless this idea is constantly worked out through humorous action, the effect is largely
lost by its being too subdued. In fact, the photo-comedy cannot be purely the comedy of idea.
On the regular stage, most light-comedies succeed by reason of the bright and humorous dialogue
which the author puts into the mouths of the players. Funny "business," and the by-play of
the players, help, of course, but the humorous lines of the piece are depended upon to make
it a success.

It is just the opposite in photoplay; dialogue (unless cut-in leaders, taking the form of a
speech made by one of the characters, may be called "dialogue") is entirely absent, and humorous
action and funny situations must take its place.

The requirements of a comedy script are very definitely covered by Mr. Sargent in the following,
taken from his department in The Moving Picture World:

"In photoplay ... the majority of the scenes must each have its own comedy action while the
narrative is advanced, and it is here that the average writer of comedy falls short. If a scene
is not naturally funny, put some humor into it. Do not force the comedy action, but invent
something that is germane to the plot and natural to the situation. If you can do this you
can write comedy, but until you can get a laugh in every scene you are not writing comedy,
no matter how funny the central idea may be. As a rule the central idea furnishes the comedy
for only one scene; not for the entire play. In comedy you must play faster, work harder, and
strive constantly for the natural, unforced laughs. And remember that the editors go to vaudeville
shows, the same as you do. They know the old sketches and the whiskered jokes. If they wanted
them they would write them themselves."

The success of a comedy composition lies fundamentally in the novelty of its plot, or in some
new and interesting phase of an old situation; it prospers in proportion to its interest-holding
qualities, its natural logic, its probability, and the constant humor of the individual scenes
and situations. There is a wide difference between comedy and comic pictures, and the difference
lies chiefly in that comedy depends largely for its humor on the cleverness displayed in the
construction of the plot, whereas the comic picture is usually merely a series of funny situations
arising from one basic situation, but having little or no plot. In the "comic," the scenes
are loosely connected, while the humor of the picture depends upon the uproarious fun in each
scene. These comic pictures, usually of the slap-stick variety, would naturally be classed
as farces; but even in photoplay it is possible to produce a better and more natural brand
of farce than that which depends for its humor upon the silly antics of different characters
in a series of loosely connected scenes, which have no logical or consistent plot.

There is steady demand for the unusual and genuinely humorous light comedy--by which is meant
the kind of photo-comedies that approximate the legitimate plays usually employed as vehicles
by Mr. John Drew and Mr. Cyril Maude. They may treat of society, of business life, or of life
in the home, but on account of the light, airy, and subtly humorous way in which the situations
are developed they take far higher artistic rank than may be accorded to farce. There is also
a good demand for comedy-dramas in which there is a strict regard for dramatic values in handling
the different scenes, and in following out the plot, which has its serious elements, but in
which the comedy-element remains comedy from first to last.

The domestic comedies produced by Metro, featuring Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Drew, of which we have
already spoken, are so well known, and these artists are so universally popular, that a word
or two from Mr. Drew on the subject of screen comedy should be interesting and instructive:

"Comedy is and always will be an amusing story humorously told," says Mr. Drew. "If it is a
good story, well told, then it is a comedy, but if it has no story or cannot be told humorously,
then no amount of bolstering will ever make it into a comedy. You may add a lot of knockabout
and perhaps get an acceptable farce, or you can write in sensation and get travesty, but you
cannot by these means change the unfit into comedy, and the broad use of 'comedy' to apply
to anything intended to be diverting is a misuse of an ancient and honorable word.... To my
way of thinking comedy is first of all a good story. It is a story and not merely an incident
or a collection of incidents. There must be a plot to obtain and hold the interest. This plot
does not necessarily require profound depths, but there must be a distinct and clearly defined
objective upon which the interest may be centred, and the interest must arise from mental processes
and not from mere mechanical appeal.... Humorous action does not mean gross horseplay. The
action itself may not always be marked to be amusing. To take a crude illustration, suppose
that a character in the story is about to thrash his ancient enemy. He feels so certain of
victory that he bribes the policeman on the beat not to interfere. Now he goes to the field
of battle and unexpectedly gets the worst of it. He is the first to call for the police, and
the scene flashes between the suborned officer placidly smiling at the sounds of the affray
and never dreaming that it is his patron who is calling for aid. There is nothing humorous
in the spectacle of a policeman on a street corner. In a comedy of incident he would have to
suffer indignity to get a laugh. In the comedy with a plot, the plot makes the action humorous.
We are not, in reality, laughing at the policeman. He is merely the symbol of the idea. We
are laughing at the predicament into which our hero has thrust himself. It is this thought,
and not the sight of the policeman, at which we laugh. The policeman merely stands for the
thought, yet it is humorous action within my meaning of the term in that the policeman represents
the thought.

"In our own comedies Mrs. Drew and I seek to appeal to the mind as well as to the eye, but
to appeal to the mind through the eye. We value the advantage of brightly-written sub-titles,
but believe that these should supplement and not replace the comedy in the action. The clever
leader may either prepare for the comedy-situation or may follow and intensify it, but it is
always an accessory and not the chief aim. It is absurd to talk of the leader as an intrusion
to be avoided. It should be avoided only when it really is an intrusion. The cleverness of
an author displays itself in the expertness with which he handles leaders rather than in his
skill in avoiding them."[31]

[Footnote 31: Sidney Drew, "Comedy Picture Production," in The Moving Picture World.]

6. General Advice

It is most important that, having started to write a farce, for instance, you keep it a farce
throughout. One fault of many amateur scripts is that they show a tendency to be a little of
everything. A strong emotional drama may--even should--have its "comedy relief," but it is
a very unwise thing to introduce a note of tragedy into a farce or even into a straight comedy
composition.

At this point it will not be out of place to say a few words in connection with this matter
of "comedy relief," of which we have just spoken, as used in writing dramatic stories. The
over-use of comedy relief, so called, is mostly due to misguided directors who have seen the
success attending its introduction by prominent directors who really understood how and when
to use it. A departmental writer in the Motion Picture News, speaking of the small army of
directors "who worked with Griffith," says:

"Probably the most obvious of all the blunders made by the men who seek to emulate the wonderful
work of Griffith is their introduction of comedy, chiefly through the medium of domestic animals,
when they are forced to stop the action of their story to do so. Griffith's comedy is always
spontaneous, incidental--it seems to have been inspired at the moment and runs in as part of
the main action. The comedy of the men 'who worked with Griffith,' while perhaps inspired at
the moment, rises not from the situations of the story but from the contemplative mind of the
director himself. This is the general rule, at any rate. There are exceptions, of course, and
notable ones, too, but that all-powerful motif of 'comedy relief' often gets the better of
the director's judgment and results in a product that is so unbalanced that much of the illusion
is destroyed. In fact, comedy relief is a difficult element to gain. It should always be purely
incidental, unforced, arising from some major situation, and so creating the desired contrast.
When it is obviously sought after and introduced without regard for its suitability it is not
comedy relief but comedy-out-of-place."

Since this, like the over-use of the close-up, is something for which directors are largely
responsible, it is the photoplaywright's duty to help by being very careful about how he himself
writes in comedy intended to "light up" tense, serious, dramatic action.

No matter what class of humorous photoplay you may be writing, you must keep in mind what we
enlarged upon in Chapter XVI: Nothing is funny that offends against good taste, or that, in
any way, causes pain to any number of the spectators. Comedy, to be worthy of appreciation,
must always be good-natured. National types as caricatured by many comedians with the aid of
eccentric costumes and weird make-ups are usually as far from being real national types as
one could well imagine. Humor must have more than mere extravagance or caricature for its basis.
Even in farce and in musical comedy, as well as in vaudeville, the once familiar green-whiskered
Irishman, the Frenchman who is all shrugging shoulders and absurd gestures, the negro who walks
as if he were trying to take two steps backward for every one forward, and whose most noticeable
facial feature is an enormous mouth, and the "Busy Izzy" type of Jew, who when not getting
robbed himself, or being otherwise abused, is doing his best to defraud others, are gradually
going out of fashion. And in the photoplay, which is now seen by all classes of people and
is for all the people, racial characteristics must be treated in at least a fairly accurate
manner, and always good-naturedly. Six or seven years ago, more than half the comedies produced
were based upon a chase, or else depended largely upon slap-stick humor to raise a laugh. Not
a few of them had as their chief comedy-incident an act of downright cruelty to some animal,
or even to some human being. Today, when manufacturers are vying with each other to produce
better, cleaner, and more universally enjoyable pictures, the script that violates Censorship
rules or studio ethics by including any of the foregoing undesirable subjects stands but little
show of reaching the production stage, if, indeed--which is extremely unlikely--it is accepted
at all.

"Good sense is at once the basis of and the limit to all humor. He who lacks a fine perception
of 'the difference between what things are and what they ought to be,' as the always-to-be-quoted
Hazlitt expressed it, can never write humor. All the way through we shall find that mirth is
a matter of relationships, of shift, of rigidity trying to be flexible, of something shocked
into something else.

"Let us think of a circle on which four points have been marked:

"Beginning with a serious idea, we may swiftly step from point to point until we return to
the serious, with only slight variations from the original conception. Take the perennial comedy-theme
of the impish collar, and visualize the scenes:

"1. A man starts to button his collar. Nothing is less comical, as long as the operation proceeds
normally.

"2. But the button is too large and his efforts begin to exasperate him, with the result that
his expression and movements become incongruous. We see, and laugh--though he does not.

"3. He begins to hop around in a mad attempt to button the unbuttonable, and soon rips off
the collar, addressing it in unparliamentary language. He is ludicrous, ridiculous, absurd.

"4. In his rage he violently kicks a pet dog that comes wagging up to him. Our laughter subsides,
for the fellow is more contemptible than amusing--a deeper feeling has been born in us.

"5. The little dog limps off with a broken leg--we are no longer amused, we are indignant.
What is more, not only have we gotten back to the serious, but there is no amusement left in
any of the previous scenes.

"Still applying the test of the extent of the variation from the normal as shown in the effects,
we conclude that serious consequences kill humor. The mere idea of such consequences, when
we know that in the circumstances they are really impossible, may convulse us with merriment,
as when we see a comedian jab a long finger into the mouth of his teammate and the latter chews
it savagely. In real life this might sicken us with disgust--I say 'might,' because we can
easily conceive of such a situation's exciting laughter if the victim were well deserving of
the punishment. It is human for us to laugh when the biter is bit; indeed, variations on this
theme are endless in humorous writing.

"Sympathy also kills humor. The moment we begin to pity the victim of a joke--for humor has
much to do with victims--our laughter dies away. Therefore the subject of the joke must not
be one for whose distress we feel strong sympathy. The thing that happens to a fop is quite
different in effect from that which affects a sweet old lady. True, we often laugh at those--or
at those ideas--with whom or with which we are in sympathy, but in such an instance the ludicrous
for the moment overwhelms our sympathy--and sometimes even destroys it."[32]

[Footnote 32: J. Berg Esenwein Writing for the Magazines; published uniform with this volume
in "The Writer's Library."]

This one thing bear especially in mind: clean comedy is even more essential than clean drama.
It is so easy, when writing humorous material, to go wrong without intending it--indeed, even
without knowing it. Under the guise of comedy some producers are responsible for scenes and
situations that manage somehow or other to pass the censors, whereas the same scene in a dramatic
photoplay would not be tolerated for a moment. But these are exceptions.

The marital relation should be touched upon only in a way which admits of no offense being
taken by right-minded and refined people. Real infidelity had far better be left out of humorous
photoplays altogether. Here more than in any other branch of photoplay writing you should remember
that what merely might be tolerated on the regular stage would never do on the screen. It is
well to remember also that just as the American public has tired of the chase and the foolish
powder, it has also sickened of the coarse, suggestive, and even the questionable subjects
that could once be depended upon to "get a laugh." There is absolutely no excuse for introducing
anything into a picture today that would offend the good taste of any member of an audience.
The local censorship boards of some cities have made themselves ridiculous in the eyes of thinking
photoplay patrons, but the work done by the National Board of Censors has been the means of
slowly and surely causing the lower class of photoplay patrons to acquire an appreciation of
good dramatic subjects as well as more refined comedy.

It may be said in passing that not all the companies producing farcical photoplays or slap-stick,
as it is generally called--exclude the work of the outside writer. Such firms as do accept
outside scripts of this kind are prepared to "go the limit" in the matter of expense in order
to make their pictures superlatively funny and unusual in the matter of staging. The Pathé
comedy, "Cleopatsy," featuring the famous clown Toto, was a striking example of how a slap-stick
comedy today is unhesitatingly given as elaborate and sumptuous a scenic investiture as was
accorded a few years ago to screen-versions of Shakespearean or other "classic" plays. The
laughs in this Pathé production were produced, principally, by the introduction of business
and situations that simply could not have happened in the time of Cleopatra, Antony and Cæsar.
Thus we saw traffic policemen with their Stop and Go signals in the middle of the Sahara; telephones,
check books, motorcycles and automobiles in use, and so on. In addition, the leaders were filled
with modern business and other slang; and the spectacle of a huge negro wrapping Cleopatsy
in a modern Axminster rug and carrying her in to show her to Antony (instead of, as according
to history, Cæsar) kept the spectators in a roar of laughter. For an originally-worked-out
idea such as this there is nearly always a ready market.

Finally, remember that comedy-action should run as smoothly as a well-oiled machine. Start
with a good, fresh, funny idea and then make each scene run smoothly and logically into the
next. There are certain series of comic pictures in the comic section of the newspapers which
might well serve as your models for progressive and logical action. Mr. Bud Fisher's well-known
"Mutt and Jeff" and Mr. George McManus's "Bringing Up Father" series are excellent examples.
Particularly in the McManus pictures do we get funny, logical, and, above all, generally natural--in
the sense of its being probable--comedy action. Take as an example the one which is sub-titled
"It's a pity the valet left--he would have been such a nice playmate for Father." "Father,"
as we know, is the very much hen-pecked husband of a socially impossible woman who holds her
place among the "400" only by reason of her husband's wealth. It is Father's constant ambition
and determination to spend as much of his time as possible amongst his old "roughneck" working-man
pals, instead of in attending his wife's receptions and other society functions. A sociable
companion of his own class is what he constantly seeks. In this picture there are, as is usual
in the Sunday supplements, twelve scenes. The action of the picture may be roughly synopsized
as follows:

Scene 1. Mrs. Jiggs introduces Mr. Jiggs--"Father"--to the new, and very English, valet--who
"waited on Count de Miles until he died." To which Father (possible sub-title) replies: "No
wonder he died!"

Scene 2. The butler, in Father's room, announces that he "thinks he'll like the job and that
Father won't find him hard to please."

Scene 3. Shows Father making a critical inspection of the statue-like valet, and muttering
that "his folks must have been fond of children, to raise him!"

Scene 4. Shows Father glancing up at a shield and some ancient battle-clubs, spears and axes,
hung on the wall. We can easily guess what is passing in his mind.

Scene 5. Father takes the valet over to the window and stands him facing out, saying that he
wishes to show him the wonderful view. Behind his back Father holds one of the war-clubs.

Scene 6. As the valet gazes out of the window, Father swings the club upward, preparing for
a mighty blow, muttering as he does so: "It's a duty I owe my country."

Scene 7. Just as Father is about to strike, the valet glances down at something on the corner
of the dresser, and exclaims: "Ah! A pinochle deck! My favorite game!" To which Father replies:
"Oh! Do you play cards?"

Scene 8. Here they are in the middle of an exciting game, Father winning everything, the chips
piled high before him. The valet asks: "Will you pardon me? I'll see if I can get some of my
wages in advance."

Scene 9. In the lower hallway. Shows the valet asking Mrs. Jiggs for his salary in advance,
adding that "the count always paid him ahead."

Scene 10. Back in the room upstairs, with Father at the table, on which are piled the valet's
clothes, while the constantly losing valet plays his last hand from behind a screen.

Scene 11. Shows the entrance of the butler, who tells Father that Mrs. Jiggs "wishes to see
him at once."

Scene 12. Shows the inglorious dismissal of the pinochle-loving valet, dressed only in three
of Mrs. Jiggs' hat boxes, the bottoms of which have been knocked out. When Mrs. Jiggs declares
"Pack your things and get out immediately--you are fired!" the valet answers gloomily: "I have
nothing to pack, Madam!"

This, although merely an idea drawn out into a dozen pictures, is the sort that might easily
be made the foundation for a laughable short comedy. Barring the fact that one or two of the
scenes are played (so to speak) in the same setting, with no leader or other scene separating
them--as would be the case in photoplay--this newspaper "funny" is much better put together,
much more logical, and is just about the same number of scenes as were many of the split-reel
comedies of a few years ago. Almost all of the more popular comic series in the newspapers,
in fact, may be studied with profit by the would-be writer of screen comedies. There is action,
and often very funny action, in every picture, and the plot moves quickly, logically, and without
the slightest sign of unnecessary detail or irrelevant action, to an extremely funny climax,
which, best of all, is usually a surprise to the reader.

Apply the same working-principle to the writing of humorous photoplays, especially the plan
of having a surprise climax followed by a quick denouement, and you can hardly fail to produce
a comedy that will cause the editor to notify you favorably.

CHAPTER XIX

GETTING THE NEW TWIST

No story is an old story if you give it a new "twist"--a fresh turn, an original surprise,
an unexpected course of narration. As a matter of fact, this is what fiction writers and dramatists
have been doing for hundreds of years; taking an old idea, they have twisted it about, enlarged
upon it, provided a new setting for the story, and created something new, yet in truth far
from new, from the idea furnished by another writer. Who evolved the "original" plot in any
certain case is a question that will forever remain a question, for the earliest plays and
stories are no longer extant. But this we do know: there are only a very few original or primary
plots, and all the plays, novels, and short-stories that have been written are variations of
these. Some writers have made the twist more pronounced, and their work, judged by present-day
standards, is classed as original. Others, without trying to conceal the source of their plots,
nevertheless give them new treatment, and so are not charged with plagiarism. Therefore we
may conclude that that writer is entitled to be called original who is capable of so twisting
and remodeling the theme used by another writer that it is, in the remodeling, virtually recreated.

1. An Example from Fiction

As a concrete example, let us compare Poe's short-story, "The Cask of Amontillado," with Conan
Doyle's "The New Catacomb." In both of these the theme is revenge, brought about by having
the one seeking to entomb his enemy alive--the same theme, precisely, as Balzac had used earlier
in "La Grande Bretêche," and Edith Wharton in later years in "The Duchess at Prayer." In "The
Cask of Amontillado," Montresor desires to be revenged upon Fortunato because the latter has
both injured and insulted him. Exactly how he has been insulted we are not told; nor do we
know the extent of his "injuries." It is sufficient for the purpose of the story that we know
that his Latin blood has been roused sufficiently to make him eager to compass the death of
his enemy--who is none the less his enemy although, up till the very moment when Fortunato
realizes the awful fate that is to be his, he (Montresor) pretends friendship for his victim.
After Montresor's revenge has been accomplished by walling up Fortunato in a subterranean vault,
the perpetrator feels no remorse. He has completed what he set out to do, and is satisfied.
He has "punished with impunity" and he has made the fact that he is the redresser felt by "him
who has done the wrong."

What chiefly impresses the reader is the lack of motive for Montresor's crime--for crime it
surely is, whatever his real or fancied wrongs--other than the motive of a madman. At the conclusion
our sympathy for the unfortunate victim of Montresor's hate is perhaps as great as is our pity
for Montresor himself.

But note that Doyle's story is not only an original piece of fiction--as we have just interpreted
that expression--but also one in which we recognize that the seeker after revenge is thoroughly
deserving of our sympathy, even though we do not entirely approve of his bringing about the
death of even so unworthy a creature as we know his enemy to be. In Doyle's story, as in Poe's,
the background is Italy, but Italy of the present day, so we feel that we understand the motives
of the characters better because they are of our own time. There is a definite and grievous
wrong committed against the young woman with whom the central character is in love, therefore
the wrong is committed indirectly against the lover himself. We are made to realize the despicable
nature, the utter heartlessness, of the young woman's betrayer, and we actually hate him as
soon as the facts are made clear to us. We realize how great has been the love for her cherished
by the man who finally punishes the one who has wronged her, by causing him to be entombed
alive in a Roman catacomb which he himself has but recently discovered.

In Poe's story, Fortunato is chained to the wall of the vault, after which he is literally
walled up and buried alive. In "The New Catacomb," the redresser of the wrong takes the evil-doer
down into the catacomb and leaves him while he finds his own way out by means of a trail of
cord, knowing that the other, unable to follow him, is being left in what will be his tomb.

The dramatic intensity of Doyle's story is just as great as in that written by Poe; the "hero"
is as much deserving of our sympathy as the "villain" merits our condemnation; and the treatment
of the theme, from first to last, makes Doyle's an absolutely original story, although there
is little doubt that it was suggested, or, at least influenced, either by the one written many
years before by the American master of the short-story, or by Balzac's remarkable tale referred
to above.

The discriminating photoplaywright will have no difficulty in making the application of this
illustration of how an original story may grow out of an old theme. But be careful not to turn
this liberty into an excuse for adhering closely to a borrowed theme.

2. Plagiarism

In justice to writers in general it is only fair to believe that most cases of plagiarism are
quite unintentional. The fault usually is in the writer's memory. Turn your eye inward, and
form the habit of tracing the origin of your inspirations--sometimes it may chagrin you to
find how near to unconscious imitation you have been. You may get the inspiration for a story
and write it; it may be accepted and produced; then, after its release, some friend will casually
remark that it reminds him of a Vitagraph picture that he saw a year or two ago. And only after
he has called your attention to it do you realize that that Vitagraph story, seen and forgotten,
was the source of your "inspiration"--and perhaps you have committed an unconscious theft.

In an earlier chapter we have urged photoplaywrights to keep in touch with the market so as
to avoid writing on trite themes. But that practise will not help the conscious plagiarist.
Why should he invent a new twist when he can steal one? This would seem to be his short-sighted
logic. Fortunately, there are not many unscrupulous writers who deliberately attempt to sell
to editors stories which are simply adaptations of more or less well-known stories or plays.
A great deal has been said about editors and their assistants being familiar with standard
literature and current books, plays, and magazine stories. But no editor is infallible, and
once in a while a stolen story "gets by." We know of two companies, each of which within the
space of six months produced stories that were plainly recognizable as adaptations of "The
Adventure of the Norwood Builder," the second story in "The Return of Sherlock Holmes." Another
company released a picture that was simply Maupassant's "The Necklace" so carelessly re-dressed
that we wonder the editor did not recognize it after reading the first paragraph of the synopsis.

The final test of whether a story really resembles another closely enough to suggest intentional
plagiarism is when the similarity between the two is recognized immediately by people in many
different parts of the country--yet that is too late to help any one involved! The short-stories
of "O. Henry" have been so widely read that when a new story appears that closely resembles
one of his it is not long before comparisons are made. Three or four years ago a certain company
made a two-part picture that so closely resembled O. Henry's "The Reformation of Calliope"
that after its release one of the present writers received letters of inquiry from photoplaywrights
in five different cities commenting upon it, three of the letters being from young writers
who, recognizing the resemblance, asked if it were "permissible to take the principal plot-idea
of a copyrighted story and, by changing it about slightly, make it into a salable photoplay."
As might be supposed, they were earnestly advised to refrain from doing so.

A dozen years ago there appeared in the English edition of The Strand Magazine a story in which
a retired Indian officer, at a dinner given to a party of his friends, displays a remarkably
fine diamond. The jewel is unset, having been taken--as most jewels in stories of this kind
are--from the head of an Indian idol. The stone is passed around for inspection. The Hindoo
servant is clearing some of the things from the table, and the diamond has just been admired
by an old gentleman in a rather frayed dress-suit, when the attention of everyone present is
drawn away from the table for a moment or two. When they turn around, the diamond has disappeared.
Naturally, the guests are embarrassed, but they all offer to allow themselves to be searched,
with the exception of the shabby-genteel old gentleman. While he protests that he knows nothing
of how the stone has disappeared, he stubbornly refuses to allow them to search his clothes.
The effect upon the other guests may easily be imagined. Later, however, one of the guests
having followed him home, it is discovered that the poor old man has merely filled his pockets
with different delicacies from the table, and has taken them home to his sick grandchild. Subsequently
it is discovered that the Hindoo servant has taken the jewel, and he is arrested and punished.
In the moment that the attention of the guests was directed elsewhere, after the old gentleman
had laid it on the table, the servant had snatched up the jewel and dropped it into a half-filled
water glass, where it remained undiscovered while the servant was searched with the others.
It is pretty generally known that an unset pure diamond, if dropped into a glass of water,
becomes invisible.

Some time during 1911, one of the producing companies released a picture entitled "The Class
Reunion." To get the plot of the photoplay story, simply substitute an impecunious professor
for the old gentleman in the short-story. Instead of the Hindoo servant, have one of the pupils--if
our memory serves--turn out to be the thief, and have him drop the jewel--which is a ruby,
and not a diamond--into a glass of red wine instead of into a glass of water. In all other
particulars the two stories were identical.

Only a few months later, this plot cropped up again--in fiction form--in a prominent American
magazine. Then, in the release of another well-known company, of January 13, 1913, it again
did service in the photoplay "The Thirteenth Man," where the inevitable banquet is the annual
reunion of "The Thirteen Club." The theme has now become so hackneyed that, as the list given
in Chapter XVI shows, it is no longer serviceable for photoplay purposes.

Obviously, these facts are cited not to discredit the companies referred to, but solely to
emphasize the difference between the genuinely new twist as exemplified in Conan Doyle's "The
New Catacomb," and the dangerously close similarity as exhibited in at least one of the two
photoplays just referred to as following the plot of the Strand story.

It must not be inferred, however, that all cases in which the themes of short-stories are developed
into photoplays with very little change are plagiarisms, either conscious or unconscious. Many
important companies are negotiating constantly with the magazines for the right to photodramatize
their most suitable short-stories. Sometimes this is done with the consent of the author and
the plot of the story used substantially without change, while in other instances the plot
is freely changed, only the germ being used. It is particularly in such cases that we must
be careful not to charge plagiarism.

In this connection it is important to note that the photoplaywright cannot be too careful in
respecting the rights of publishers and authors in their fictional properties. To many writers
it is not clear precisely what rights an author parts with when he, without any other stipulation,
sells a short-story or a longer piece of fiction outright to a magazine, so he must be careful
in offering moving-picture rights to a company unless he is sure, from a clear understanding
with the magazine publisher, that he is at liberty to do so. If these points are not altogether
in the clear to you, nevertheless it is certainly wise to be definite in securing your own
copyright on stories, when that is possible, by agreeing with your publisher for the release
to you of all dramatic rights.

To return once more to the subject of originality, in W.W. Jacobs's story, "The Monkey's Paw,"
the thrillingly terrible crisis begins when the father, much against his will, makes use of
the second wish granted to him as the possessor of the fatal paw and wishes his dead son alive
again. In the night he and his wife are aroused by a familiar knocking on their door. The mother,
believing it to be their son returned to life, rushes to let him in, but while she is trying
to unlock the door, the husband, remembering the terrible condition of the son's body, he having
been crushed to death by some machinery, utters the third and last wish. The knocking ceases,
and when the woman succeeds in getting the door open, the street lamp flickering opposite is
shining on a quiet and deserted road.

Substantially the same plot is used in a story published in The Blue Book, "The Little Stone
God," the principal difference being that, when those in the house hear the knocking on the
door, they refuse, in utter terror, to answer the summons. The knocking ceases; and the next
morning they learn that a telegraph messenger boy called at the house with a message on the
previous night and, after knocking several times in vain, went away again.

The foregoing are only a few examples of plots which strongly resemble one another. How it
comes that they resemble one another it is not our province to discuss any further--the point
is that if your story is inspired by the work of another writer, give it such an absolutely
original treatment that you can conscientiously refer to it as original.

"Don't waste time in rewriting other people's brain-children, for the scenario-editor goblins
will catch you sure as fate, and once you get a reputation for plagiarism, not a film-maker
will dare to buy any manuscript from you for fear it is copyrighted."[33]

[Footnote 33: Herbert Case Hoagland, How to Write a Photoplay.]

In photoplays as in novels and short-stories nothing is so disappointing as a story whose title
is inviting, and the first few pages--or scenes, as the case may be--interesting, but which
soon begins to reveal itself as nothing more than a story with which we are already familiar,
though slightly changed in a few particulars in the hope that it may be welcomed as an original
work. We say "slightly changed," for if the all-important new twist is not given the story
cannot escape detection as being what it is--a mere copy of the original.

"The formula upon which the plot is built is of venerable antiquity," says Frederick Taber
Cooper, in The Bookman, in reviewing a certain novel. Then, although he commends the purpose
of the story, he concludes: "But the book is not really an important one, because there have
been scores of books equally well written which have already said much the same thing. The
author has not had any new twist to give to the old theme--and, worst of all, we know from
wearisome past experience just how the plot will work out, just how inevitable it is that Kenneth
will achieve fame, and his father will be reconciled, and Jean, convinced of her injustice,
will tearfully plead for forgiveness." Don't lay yourself open to such a criticism.

3. What Is Originality?

"Popularly, we call that man original who stands on his own feet, uses the thoughts of others
only to stimulate and supplement his own, and who does his best to color borrowed thought with
the hue of his own personality. Such a man, if he be not a creator, is at least a thinker,
and a thinker need never be a literary thief. The entrance of any thought that will set the
mind to working should be welcome indeed."[34]

[Footnote 34: J. Berg Esenwein, Writing the Short-Story.]

Speaking of the way in which a writer may take an old plot and work it over, Frank E. Woods,
the former "Spectator" of the Dramatic Mirror, says:

"That is precisely what every author does in nine cases out of ten. He utilizes and adapts
the ideas he has gained from various sources. It is when he follows another author's sequence
or association of ideas or arrangement of incidents so closely as to make his work appear to
be an obvious copy or colorable imitation, that he is guilty."

4. The New Twist Illustrated

As an example of the way in which an old theme may be given a new twist, let us compare the
plot of Browning's "Pippa Passes"--which, by the way, was wonderfully well produced in motion-picture
form by the Biograph Company in 1909--and James Oppenheim's photoplay, "Annie Crawls Upstairs,"
produced by the Edison Company.

In each, the theme is the spiritual redemption of several different characters through the
influence of the heroine, who in each case accomplishes this worthy end quite unconsciously.
Pippa, the mill-girl, spends her holiday wandering through the town and over the countryside,
singing her innocent and happy-hearted songs. It is the effect of those songs upon those who
hear them that gives the poem-story its dramatic moments and makes up the plot. In Mr. Oppenheim's
story, the heroine, Annie, is a tiny, crippled child who, wandering out of the tenement kitchen
where her half-drunken father is quarreling with his wife, crawls painfully up one flight of
stairs after another, innocently walking into each flat in turn, and in each doing some good
by her mere presence. On one floor a wayward girl is so affected by meeting with the crippled
child that she remains at home with her mother instead of going out to join a party of friends
of questionable character; on another floor she is instrumental in preventing an ex-convict
from joining his former pals in another crime; in the flat above, she brings together two lovers
who are about to part in anger; in the next flat she comforts a busy dressmaker who has lost
patience with and scolded her little girl for being in her way while she is at work, and who
realizes on seeing Annie that she should at least be thankful that her child has health and
strength, and does not, therefore, add the care and worry of sickness to the burden of poverty.
Finally, on the top floor, a young man, heart-sick and weary of the vain search for work in
a strange city, coming out of his room finds little Annie asleep, her head resting against
the frame of the door. As he carries her down to her own flat, he picks up courage, banishes
the thoughts of suicide which a few moments before had filled his brain, and resolves to try
again. The picture ends with the mother and father, their quarrel forgotten, bending over the
child.

Thus, consciously or unconsciously, Mr. Oppenheim has used the same theme that Browning used;
but he has given it a new twist with the introduction of each new incident in the story. The
little lame child of the tenements does not seem to speak a word in the picture, and the scene
between the two young lovers parting after their quarrel is totally unlike the scene between
Ottima and Sebald in Browning's poem, yet we feel that the good influence that changes the
heart of the burglar, as he sits there planning the new crime, is the same as that which shakes
the guilty wife and her lover when Pippa passes beneath the window of Luca's house, singing:

    God's in his heaven--
    All's right with the world!

We have read of a Western script in which the outlaw, wounded and bleeding, is given shelter
by the heroine. When the sheriff arrives, he sees the basin containing the bloody water and
inquires how it comes there. Even while he is looking at it, the girl cuts her hand with a
knife, and declares that, having cut herself before the Sheriff's arrival, she has just washed
her hand in the basin.

This incident, or situation, is almost identical with one in the Ambrosio Company's "After
Fifty Years," which won the first prize of twenty-five thousand francs ($5,000) at the Turin
Exhibition, and which showed as one of its many thrilling situations the Italian heroine gashing
her hand with a knife held behind her back, to explain to the Austrian soldier who is in search
of her lover the presence of blood on her sleeve.

Yet this could not be called a theft, or even a re-arrangement of another writer's plot. The
plot, characters, and setting were entirely different in each play--it was only that one situation
that was made use of; and it seems likely that it was from the Ambrosio picture, or the account
of it, that the author of the Western story got his inspiration. Yet who can really tell? Thoughts
are marvellous things, and both writers may have gotten their ideas from some other original--or
even conceived them in their own brains.

After all, as has been pointed out, the trouble with many young writers is that they are not
content with copying a single situation. They have not been "in the game" long enough to realize
either the risk that they are taking or the wrong that they are doing a fellow writer, so they
not only adapt to their own needs a strong situation in another's story but precede and follow
it with other incidents and situations which are substantially the same as those surrounding
the big situation in the original story.

But giving an old theme a new twist is a trick of the trade that comes only with experience,
and experience is gained by practice. Experience and practice soon teach the photoplaywright
not to rely too heavily upon the newspaper for new ideas, for almost every day editors receive
two or more plots which closely resemble each other, simply because the writers, having all
chosen the same theme, have all worked that theme up in the same way--the obvious way, the
easiest way, the way that involves the least care, and therefore the least ingenuity.

"Where do the good plots come from, anyhow?" asks John Robert Moore. "We people in universities
often amuse ourselves by tracing stories back to their origins. The trouble is that we often
reach the limit of our knowledge, but rarely find the beginning; for the plot seems to be as
old as the race. What, then, has been changed in a story which has been raised from a mediæval
legend to a modern work of art?

"In such cases, the setting and the moral content are almost invariably altered. An absurdly
comic story about an Irishman and a monkey, which was current a couple of centuries ago, became
'The Murders in the Rue Morgue' in the hands of Poe. The central plot remained much the same,
but the whole of the setting and the intellectual content assumed a new and vastly higher significance.
'The Bottle Imp' harks back to the Middle Ages; but Stevenson made a world-famous story of
it by giving it the flavor of the South Sea Islands which he knew so well."

So there are both discouragement and cheer for those who accept the Wise Man's dictum that
there is nothing new under the sun. In the one aspect, there seems little chance for the novice
since the primary plots are really so few; but in the other view, fresh arrangements of old
combinations are always possible for those who see life with open eyes, alert minds, warm hearts,
and the resolve to be as original as they can.

CHAPTER XX

COMPLETE FIVE-REEL PHOTOPLAY SCRIPT "EVERYBODY'S GIRL"

Adapted from "O. Henry's" Short-Story, "Brickdust Row," by A. Van Buren Powell, and Produced
in Film Form by The Vitagraph Company[35]

[Footnote 35: Used by permission. Copyright, 1918, by the Vitagraph Company of America. All
rights reserved.]

The mere reading of the following photoplay script will not do you any good. To get any benefit
from it you must study it.

The script, which is an adaptation--the short-story of a famous author, "O. Henry," translated
into screen technique--is in the form in which it was accepted for production. An adaptation
rather than the script of an original idea is chosen for two reasons: the story from which
it was made is accessible in every library, and the translation into production-form offers
certain problems which make it a more effective lesson in idea-building.

Pretend that you are a staff writer, and that you are to "do" a certain story by "O. Henry."
Get from your library the book of short-stories by the famous author which contains "Brickdust
Row"--the volume is entitled "The Trimmed Lamp." Read the story--read it until you are thoroughly
familiar with its every word. Read it analytically. You are to make an adaptation of it. What
must that adaptation have for its fundamental purpose?--the preservation of "O. Henry's" charm
of atmosphere; the utilization of his cleverness with words, wherever possible in leaders;
the emphasizing of his purpose in writing the story. What was that purpose? Was it not to show
how a man's code of ethics, mistakenly clung to, resulted in his misjudging a perfectly innocent
girl, with resultant tragedy? And, contributory to this, was it not the aim of the original
author to emphasize and excuse the conduct of the girl--conduct arising naturally from her
environment and station in life?

These things must be conveyed, then, through the medium of characterization, with the help
of little human touches. The girl must be shown as sweet, clean, without a wrong thought; the
man must be clearly depicted, his reason for being so seemingly churlish and careless of the
duties imposed upon him by his ownership of many tenements must be handled in such a way that
he will not be an unsympathetic character.

Then we are confronted with certain studio conditions. The story must be made of feature length--five
or more reels. Again, tragedy is not welcome on the screen. Arguments might be offered to show
that the original story will lose strength through the addition of the "happy ending." We cannot
help that--in fact, we must surmount that obstacle. We must make the story equally strong and
try, if we can, to add to its lesson. We cannot air our ideals, and write just as we wish;
we must conform to the set rules of our particular studio, as well as to the general rules
covering screencraft.

The change of title is governed by so many factors that it need only be said that the alternative
title was given as possessing a greater advertising and drawing power.[36]

[Footnote 36: In Mr. Van Buren Powell's new book, The Photoplay Synopsis, published uniform
with this volume in "The Writer's Library," he explains why this title was changed.]

Now we have dissected "O. Henry's" original story. We have decided what we must do with it.
Comes the director for consultation. He feels that the story is not long enough. It need not
be padded, but an additional character might be introduced to bring out and emphasize the true
character of our leading woman, and at the same time the required dramatic element and the
contrasting of his character with that of the leading man may be achieved by his presence.

So, agreeing with the director, we write our script.

Throughout, notes will call your attention to certain points that will help your understanding
of the technical purposes of certain material.

"EVERYBODY'S GIRL"

SYNOPSIS

Florence is a shop girl, of the quiet, sweet, clean type. She finds it hard to make ends meet.
Her more practical, more worldly-wise friend, Ella, the shoe-store cashier, suggests that they
share her present quarters in "Brickdust Row"--a decaying tenement block. By this division
of expense they can both save "enough to buy an extra pickle for lunch once in a while."

When Florence sees "Brickdust Row" she is depressed by its dull aspect, its dreary environment.
But she accepts Ella's proposal, and the two girls begin their sharing of the tiny room as
cheerfully as possible.

Through a terrifying experience with a male flirt Florence comes to learn that Ella has long
been used to accepting attentions and escort from men outside the home atmosphere. Ella explains
that since the owner of "Brickdust Row" is so avaricious that he allows the parlors to be rented
out, no place is provided where the girls may entertain men properly, and so the society of
the opposite sex must be sought and enjoyed "here, there and everywhere."

The idea is repugnant to Florence, who is unusually fine in her ideas of propriety; but she
comes to see that Ella's way is the only outlet for youth and the desire for companionship,
brightness, life.

She is very choice in her selection of escorts, and never permits any young man she meets to
discover even where she lives.

The owner of the tenements is a bored, money-spoiled young man--Alexander Blinker. His lawyer
tries to make him take enough interest in his tenements to change the leases so that the girls
can have a place to meet gentlemen with the shield of propriety. Blinker is too anxious to
get to a golf tournament even to listen.

Florence grows used to her rôle of "Everybody's Girl," and while she is decidedly decorous,
she learns the arts and affectations of the "street meeting."

Blinker has to come to his lawyer in order to sign some important documents; they are not prepared.
He must stay in the city over Sunday. The idea fills him with disgust; he longs for the hunting
trip he has planned. In sheer desperation he decides to do that which his butler considers
equivalent to jumping from the window, in view of his social status--Blinker determines to
go to Coney Island.

His experiences may be imagined as he is pushed and jostled by the rough-and-ready pleasure-seekers.
He gets on the boat and is seen by Florence, who regards him as a prospective escort and so
conducts herself that he is virtually forced into conversation, and with no experience to guide
him in this strange method of introduction, he manages to bear himself suitably, to the end
that the two debark at the island of pleasure-seeking and set out to enjoy themselves, Florence
being the guide, by virtue of her experience.

At first Blinker feels entirely out of his element, but Florence shows him the spirit in which
to accept the tinsel and the rude fun-making. He soon comes to like it--and to think very well
of the naively "different" girl beside him.

He is treated like all her other cavaliers at the time and place of parting--she goes home
alone. He returns to his apartment with a new idea of the city's possibilities.

That same evening Florence finds an intruder unceremoniously invading her room--a "gang" leader
who believes the shot he has just fired at an adversary has been fatal in its effect. He tells
her his story, but says he did not do the shooting. She believes him, and when the police come
to her door in their search for the culprit, she pretends that the man opposite her at the
table is her brother.

Later she learns that he has told her a falsehood, but she does not deliver him to justice,
and when she finds that the man who was shot is not fatally injured, she sends the shielded
one away in safety; for which display of her fine sense of loyalty he becomes a veritable watchdog,
never intruding his presence upon her, but being always near to observe the quality of the
companions she still allows herself.

Blinker meets her by appointment the next evening, and the faithful Watchdog follows them to
Coney Island, vigilant, feeling sure than a man of the evident social status of Blinker can
mean no good to a girl in Florence's station.

On the boat, coming home, Blinker tells Florence that he loves her. So accustomed is she to
this display of sentimentality in her cavaliers that she merely laughs. He persists, and she
indicates a belief that he is just like the rest. Mention of "the rest" awakes question in
Blinker. He learns that she meets men indiscriminately. He has a horror of this evidence of
what he considers to be moral laxity, and when Florence sees this she is amazed. He has met
her in the same way, yet he is shocked that she should meet others! In justifying her course
she explains what sort of place "Brickdust Row" is, and how the girls are driven out.

A fire is discovered on the boat, and in the excitement Blinker and Florence are separated
and the Watchdog is unable to find the girl he worships. She has jumped into the water as the
flames drew too close to her.

Later she is found at home by the Watchdog, safe though suffering from shock. He discovers
that the shock is less from exposure than from her discovery that Blinker was serious, and
that he refused to condone her mode of meeting men.

Blinker is visited by his lawyer, and in their conversation, a reference to "Brickdust Row"
gives Blinker the knowledge that he is the owner of that tenement--that it is his own fault
which gives rise to such unconventional practices as Florence has innocently indulged in. It
is too late, he thinks, now--too late to change things. His dream of love is rudely dispelled.

However, after a visit from the Watchdog, in which the gangster loyally champions Florence's
character and "lays down the law" to Blinker, the latter sees Florence again, realizing his
own great fault in being too quick to judge--and the reconciliation is made sweeter by his
willingness to have Florence do her will with the remodeling of the tenement, while the Watchdog
finds comfort in the smiles of Ella.

CAST OF CHARACTERS[37]

FLORENCE            A sweet, innocent girl, whose environment
                    shapes her conduct;
                    sympathetic type.

BLINKER             Rich, idle, careless of responsibility,
                    and as much a victim to his
                    own station as is Florence; slightly
                    affected; but must not lose sympathy
                    or create distaste.

ELLA                Snappy, shop-girl type; keen contrast
                    to Florence, and used to build
                    up and emphasize the fine nature of
                    Florence.

BILL[38]            A typical slums character--gang
                    leader; generally living by his wits,
                    but possessed of a deep-rooted devotion
                    to anybody who is "square"
                    with him.

FRANK               A typical street-flirt.

LAWYER OLDPORT      A quizzical man of the "old school."

Types of the tenement district. Police, etc.

Typical crowds at Coney Island, and on boat.

[Footnote 37: It will be observed that Mr. Powell uses now and then slightly different methods
of type-arrangement and nomenclature from those used by Mr. Leeds. These are all unimportant
variations.]

[Footnote 38: Bill is the interpolated character, whose purpose will be seen in script.]

SCENARIO, OR CONTINUITY OF SCENES

Leader--

     THUS DOES FLORENCE COAX A FEW RELUCTANT DOLLARS INTO HER
     WEEKLY PURSE.

1--Interior small hat-trimming shop.

     The diaphragm opens to show Florence trimming a hat. She is
     a pathetic figure as she looks down at the hat and realizes
     that such finery is beyond her owning. She looks up and
     smiles gratefully as the owner of the place comes from
     paying others in view, and drops an envelope on table before
     her.[39]

[Footnote 39: Nothing important happens here, but the scene is devised to gain sympathy for
the girl at once.]

Leader--

     THE SHOP GIRL'S CONSTANT PROBLEM--MAKING ENDS MEET--HELPS
     FLORENCE WEAR OUT MANY A PENCIL.

2--Boarding house steps.

     Florence is discovered sitting on step, figuring out her
     accounts with a stubby pencil on back of an old envelope.
     She looks disconsolately at her figures. Then as she glances
     up her eyes brighten and she waves a hand.[40]

[Footnote 40: Continuing atmosphere of sympathy for Florence, and beginning story in leisurely
manner in harmony with its lack of dramatic opening.]

Leader--

     FRIEND ELLA, OF THE SHOE-STORE CASHIER'S CAGE.

3--Street near boarding house.

     Ella, whose face is piquant with recognition, waves in a
     snappy, "Oh! Hello, Kid" manner, and goes toward boarding
     house.

4--Boarding house steps, as in 2. Close-up of two girls.

     Ella comes on and greets Florence in breezy way; Florence is
     pleased, but her manner of salutation is more quiet, though
     equally sincere. Ella drops on step, looks at figures, and
     grins. Florence indicates her depression, due to the figures
     that will not balance with her meager income. Ella makes a
     proposition, saying:

Cut-in leader--

     "WHY NOT SHARE A ROOM WITH ME? WE MIGHT EACH SAVE ENOUGH TO
     ADD A DILL PICKLE TO OUR LUNCH."

     Florence is impressed, and Ella bids her come along and see
     the place.[41]

[Footnote 41: Ella definitely introduced; relationship of the girls established. Note characterization
in leader.]

5--Wider view of steps.

     As Florence rises, she hesitates, and seems to be averse to
     putting her friend to inconvenience. Ella grins gayly, and
     says:

Cut-in leader--

     "WHEN YOU SEE 'BRICKDUST ROW'--WHERE I LIVE--YOU WON'T THINK
     I'M DOING YOU ANY FAVOR."

     She urges Florence to come along. Two girls leave scene.[42]

[Footnote 42: Note planting of tenement name in leader--bringing forecast of atmosphere.]

6--A street corner.

     A blind man is selling pencils. Ella and Florence come on.
     Florence pauses, fishes coin from her purse and buys a
     pencil. Then, as Ella keeps right on, turning corner,
     Florence smiles gently and pauses again.

7--Street corner--close-up of hands.

     Florence gently slips the purchased pencil back into hand of
     blind man, allowing her hand to rest commiseratingly on his
     arm an instant.

8--Wider view of street corner.

     Ella turns to see what is keeping Florence, who is hurrying
     away to avoid the man's "Bless you, and the Saints protect
     you!"[43]

[Footnote 43: Three scenes contain "human touch." Note the "close-up" as differing from "bust"
used later on.]

Leader--

     "BRICKDUST ROW," WITH ITS DREARY MONOTONY AND CRUMBLING
     DECAY, IS A PLACE TO SIGH OVER--NOT TO LIVE IN.[44]

[Footnote 44: O. Henry's atmosphere.]

9--Long view of street with typical tenements.

     Showing the dreary atmosphere of the place as Florence and
     Ella come along street and pause at a doorway.

10--Closer view doorway.

     Emphasis of atmosphere. Ella unlatching door as Florence
     touches side-rail of low stoop and looks downcast,
     shuddering a bit. They go in.

11--Lower hall of tenement.

     A worn whisk-broom hangs on wall. There is a comedy touch as
     Ella and Florence come in, and the latter notices the
     whisk-broom.

12--Bust view. Wall.

     Showing whisk-broom.

13--Wider view of hall.

     Ella laughs, and says:

Cut-in leader--

     "THE FIRST TIME YOU START OUT FROM THIS DUST-FACTORY YOU'LL
     KNOW WHY THAT'S THERE!"

     Florence is dubious about liking the place, but follows Ella
     up the rickety, dust-laden stairway.

14--Ella's tiny but neat room--window on fire-escape.

     Ella brings Florence in. Ella throws out hands in gesture of
     "Here it is--not much, I'll admit." Florence exclaims in
     reassuring affectation of delight and says she will take
     Ella's offer.

     Diaphragm out.

Leader--

     WE NOTE ONE BLINKER--ALEXANDER BLINKER--OWNING TENEMENTS
     GALORE, AND LEADING A GENERALLY USELESS LIFE BECAUSE HE HAS
     BEEN BROUGHT UP THAT WAY.

15--Oldport's legal office. Close-up at door.

     Diaphragm in to a close view of Blinker, introducing him in
     a very unpleasing humor, evidently sour about something.[45]

[Footnote 45: We are handling O. Henry's incident now, and must use his leader-material, so
the next situation must be broken into various "close-up" views to prevent having too long
a scene and too irksome a run of spoken matter in one scene.]

16--Oldport's office--wider view.

     Showing Oldport looking quizzically at the fuming Blinker as
     the latter advances, saying:

Cut-in leader--

     "IF I MUST SIGN THOSE DISGUSTING LEASES, LET US GET IT
     OVER. I HAVE A GOLF TOURNAMENT ON--"

     He advances and slumps pettishly into a chair by desk.

17--Close-up of Oldport.

     Oldport looks around at Blinker, with an expression showing
     more pity than annoyance.

18--Close-up of Blinker.

     Blinker makes a gesture of impatience and shifts in his
     chair.

19--Ella's room. A few touches indicating the refining influence of Florence.

     Ella is getting ready to go out. Florence questions. Ella
     says, "I got an afternoon date." Then she vents her
     annoyance at the owner of the buildings by saying:

Cut-in-leader--

     "THE DUB THAT OWNS THIS DUST-BIN IS SO MEAN THAT HE RENTS
     THE PARLORS--SO US GIRLS HAS GOT TO MEET OUR GENTLEMEN
     FRIENDS SOMEWHERE OUTSIDE--WE CAN'T ENTERTAIN IN OUR ROOMS,
     CAN WE?"

     Florence shakes her head, and refuses an invitation to
     accompany Ella, who goes out.[46]

[Footnote 46: Contrast to Blinker; also forecasts by association of ideas the coming together
of characters; hints at plot.]

20--Oldport's office.

     Blinker signing papers. Finishing, he rises. Oldport lays a
     restraining hand on his arm, taking another paper. Blinker
     shudders in distaste, as Oldport turns and says:

Cut-in leader--

     "THERE IS A MATTER CONCERNING THE RENTING OF THE PARLORS IN
     ONE OF YOUR BUILDINGS--YOUR FATHER HAD INTENDED TO REMODEL
     THEM, SO--"

     Blinker shrugs, and rises, protesting, imploring Oldport to
     let him get away. Oldport rises, and follows him to door,
     where he stops him.

21--Close-up door of Oldport office.

     Oldport is serious, almost pleading, as Blinker wheels.
     Oldport says:

Cut-in leader--

     "BECAUSE THE PARLORS ARE RENTED AS ROOMS, THE GIRLS, MOSTLY
     SHOP WORKERS, MUST DO THEIR ENTERTAINING OF
     MEN--ELSEWHERE--"

     Blinker turns deprecatingly, and says:

Cut-in leader--

     "DEAR OLD MAN--ANOTHER TIME, PLEASE!"

     He hurries out. Oldport frowns with annoyance, then shrugs.

     Diaphragm out.

     Diaphragm in:[47]

[Footnote 47: The close of one incident and beginning of another, no leader being required.]

22--Front of hat-shop where Florence is employed.

     Frank, a typical street-flirt, is lounging, watching some
     girls pass; they laugh and nudge each other; then Florence
     comes out of shop and Frank, lifting cap, falls into step
     beside her. Depict innocence on Florence's part--she does
     not "get his drift."[48]

[Footnote 48: This scene-sequence develops character, with contrast of the two leads; also
registers that Florence's future conduct is influenced by Ella--not voluntary.]

23--Exterior of golf club.

     Blinker arrives in haste, to find friends and players
     waiting. Emphasize his egotism and self-centeredness as they
     start off for the golf links.

24--Street in tenement district.

     Frank is keeping up with Florence as she comes on. He takes
     her arm. She stops dead still. Sudden fear shows in her
     face. Tearing herself free, she fairly runs from the scene,
     Frank staring in surprise, and indicating "Holy
     Mackerel--stuck up little skirt!"

25--Door in Brickdust Row.

     Florence comes hurrying on, looks over her shoulder to be
     sure she is not followed, and rushes into house.

26--Golf course.

     Blinker tees up and drives. He shows satisfaction as he
     watches the flight of the ball, then sets off, smiling at
     his caddie's muttered "Some drive!"

27--Ella's room.

     Florence is coming in. She is panting. Still shaking with
     fright and mortification, she flings herself across the bed.

28--A street corner.

     Ella is parting from a "gentleman friend" and thanks him for
     a "swell time," then starts for home as he turns, hat
     lifted, and goes.

29--Golf course.

     Show Blinker's egotism as he wins match amid plaudits of his
     friends.

30--Ella's room.

     Florence still on bed as Ella comes in. "What's up, Kid?"
     Florence explains. Ella laughs, and tells her the lad meant
     no harm, then rising in denunciation of their environment,
     she exclaims:

Cut-in leader--

     "LORD, KID! A GIRL CAN'T STICK IN THE HOUSE AND BE A DRIED
     PRUNE WITHOUT NO FRIENDS. IF SHE CAN'T BRING 'EM HOME--SHE
     HAS TO MEET 'EM WHEREVER SHE FINDS 'EM."

     This is a new idea to Florence, and it impresses her, though
     she is dubious about it. Finally, reconciling herself, she
     agrees, saying:

Cut-in leader--

     "YES, A GIRL HAS GOT TO HAVE SOME FUN. I GUESS IT'S NO
     HARM TO LET NICE FELLOWS SPEAK, AND TAKE YOU OUT
     SOMETIMES."

     Ella assures her that it is no harm. Florence is less
     dubious.

Leader--

     DUN, DREARY MONOTONY DRIVES FLORENCE TO THE ONLY
     ENTERTAINMENT HER ENVIRONMENT PERMITS.

31--A park entrance.

     Florence allows a neat chap who has been flirting to take
     her arm, and they go off together.

Leader--

     SOMETIMES THE MOVIES--

32--Outside moving picture house. Night.

     Florence is laughing as she comes on with ANOTHER
     nice-looking chap who takes her in to see the show.

Leader--

     SOMETIMES MOONY SPOONING--

33--Park seat near lake. Moon on water for pretty view.

     Florence is allowing a different fellow to sit close and
     hold her hand. (No inclination to get "fresh.")

Leader--

     BUT ALWAYS THE SAME TACTICS, AND EACH TIME WITH A DIFFERENT
     CAVALIER.[49]

[Footnote 49: Note the progressive series of leaders to emphasize Florence's characteristic
morality.]

34--Front door, Brickdust Row. Evening.

     Florence comes on, with an impatient swain, but she gives
     absolutely no indication that this is where she lives, and
     they pass off.

35--Street corner.

     Florence and companion come on. She says "good night" and
     refuses to let him go further. When he is gone around the
     corner she retraces her steps toward home.

     Diaphragm slowly out.

Leader--

     AH, THE TRIBULATIONS OF BLINKER!

36--Oldport's office.

     Blinker comes in, disgusted. Oldport laughs at him somewhat
     sardonically as Blinker says:

Cut-in leader--

     "WILL THOSE PAPERS NEVER BE DONE WITH? WELL--HURRY. I'M
     PACKED TO START FOR THE NORTH WOODS TONIGHT."

     Oldport grins cheerfully, saying:

Cut-in leader--

     "THE WORST HAS NOT BEEN TOLD YOU. THE PAPERS WILL NOT BE
     READY TILL MONDAY--SO YOU WILL HAVE TO AMUSE YOURSELF FOR A
     DAY AND A HALF--"

     Blinker flings out, disgusted.

37--Ella's room.

     Florence comes in, in her work-day clothes, and prepares to
     get out a quite new summer frock.

38--Blinker's apartment.

     Blinker in, and man taking off coat, etc. Summer garb.
     Blinker disgusted with life. Reads paper. Man
     obsequious--comedy touch with proffer of numbers of
     varieties of cigarettes.

39--Ella's room.

     Florence dressed in summer frock. Wonders what to do with
     herself--plans, counts money--decides and goes out.

40--Apartment.

     Blinker reads "ad." in paper and suddenly says to his man:

Cut-in leader--

     "SIMONDS, I'M GOING TO CONEY ISLAND."

     Man bows as if he had said he was going to drown himself.
     Blinker bids man fetch some cool outing flannels--he acts as
     if he were preparing to go to be shot, but must face it.
     Ennui driving him.

Leader--

     FOR ONCE HOI-POLLOI JOSTLES, BUSTLES AND HARASSES THE
     ARISTOCRATIC BLINKER.

41--Dock, gangplank.

     Comedy with Blinker in a mob of "kidders" on the way to a
     Coney Island boat.

42--Deck chair or camp stool, on Coney Island boat.

     Florence is staring out over water. Turns. Sees something.

43--Deck location.

     Blinker coming out of mob--catching hat, effect of tipping
     it.

44--Deck, wider view.

     Florence affects to be freezing. Blinker notices her, and is
     abashed.

45--Close-up of Florence.

     Florence freezing, says:

Cut-in leader--

     "HOW DARE YOU LIFT YOUR HAT TO ME, SIR?"

     Haughty.

46--Close-up of Blinker.

     Blinker stammers:

Cut-in leader--

     "I DIDN'T--"

     Then starts, admiring.

47--Close-up of Florence.

     Florence freezing, yet eyes twinkle.

48--Wider-angle view.

     Blinker quickly corrects himself by adding:

Cut-in leader--

     "I DIDN'T SEE HOW I COULD HELP IT--AFTER I SAW YOU."

     She appears mollified. He sits.

49--Closer view, toward water.

     Florence says:

Cut-in leader--

     "I DON'T ALLOW GENTLEMEN TO SIT BESIDE ME TO WHOM I HAVE NOT
     BEEN INTRODUCED."

     Comedy as Blinker rises, then sits as he sees she is joking.
     They begin to "get together."

50--Same scene, different angle.

     He asks Florence:

Cut-in leader--

     "ARE YOU GOING TO CONEY ISLAND?"

     She comes back at him:

Cut-in leader--

     "CAN'T YOU SEE I'M RIDING A BICYCLE UP THE WOOLWORTH TOWER?"

     He is abashed, then gets her idea, and says quite
     attentively:

Cut-in leader--

     "I'VE NEVER BEEN TO CONEY. MAYN'T WE SEE IT TOGETHER?"

     She is surprised, then appraises him and temporizes.

Leader--

     IN DUE COURSE ONE IS DASHED INTO THE WALKS AND AVENUES OF
     FAIRYLAND GONE INTO VAUDEVILLE.

51--Steeplechase Amusement Park.

     A long view to show the "atmosphere."[50] Florence and
     Blinker in the crowd.

[Footnote 50: The boat- and amusement-park scenes can only be lightly sketched in, as much
depends on the director and his locations, so skeleton action is given.]

52--Closer view.

     Blinker and Florence. "Tough" with girl. "Tough" blows cigar
     smoke in Blinker's face. Florence tactfully prevents a
     "scrap." She can't afford to have cavalier "pinched." Off
     they go.

53--Some open-air amusement, as "The Whip."

     Blinker and Florence on--he is disgusted. She is aflame with
     excitement. He looks disgustedly at the amusement, and she,
     divining--dejectedly--goes off with him.

Leader--

     FLORENCE IS DIVINELY HAPPY--FOR IS SHE NOT WITH HER
     MAN--KEEPER OF THE KEYS OF FAIRYLAND?

54--Front of a show.

     Florence in ecstasy. Overcomes chagrin. Goes in with
     disgusted but subdued Blinker--subdued by a battle royal
     with the mob around ticket wicket.

55--Inside the show.

     As Blinker helps Florence into a seat, an Italian woman with
     bunch of candy-sticky kids comes along. In they pile,
     candying Blinker, who disgustedly hops out, with Florence,
     somewhat discomfited and provoked at him, following. He
     backs away, and she after him.

56--Closer view of the two.

     Florence sizing up Blinker--delivers her opinion:

Cut-in leader--

     "IF YOU EXPECT TO HAVE ANY FUN, YOU'VE GOT TO JUMP IN AND
     ACT AS NUTTY AS THE REST OF THEM."

     Blinker is subdued, but hard to convince. Then he looks at
     the wistfulness of Florence's eyes, and somehow he decides
     he will try to enter into the spirit of the thing. She sees,
     is starry-eyed--drags him off, ecstasy in her face.

57--The flying horses.

     Blinker about to get on, with Florence pulling him. They get
     on. "They're off!"

Leader--

     BY THE MAGIC OF FLORENCE'S ENTHUSIASM BLINKER SUDDENLY SEES
     CONEY ISLAND IN ITS TRUE GUISE.

58--Flash on horse.

     Florence all ecstasy.

59--Another horse--parallel.

     Blinker watching Florence--sudden change to delight.

60--Horses on track in Steeplechase, running parallel.

     The two horses are going away from the camera, and as
     Blinker turns to smile at Florence, she smiles at him, and--

     The scene interposes into--

61--A rolling open field.

     Taking the place of the Steeplechase horses, we see Florence
     and Blinker riding at a gallop on real horses, typifying
     their imagined visualization. The scene interposes back into--

62--Steeplechase horses.

     Blinker laughs merrily at Florence, and both "work" as hard
     as they can to send the horses faster.[51]

[Footnote 51: The technical "interpose into" and its resultant "back into" are technical devices
to indicate the merging of one scene into another--and the effect here noted, as well as the
following one, while very significant if well done, must not be taken as models--they were
specially planned with the knowledge that a director could and would secure them adequately.
See definition of "Interpose," Chapter III.]

Leader--

     NO LONGER DOES BLINKER SEE A RABBLE. HE IS AMONG HIS
     BROTHERS, ALL SEEKING AN IDEAL.

63--Front of tawdry amusement place.

     Blinker is with Florence. As they come up and listen to the
     "ballyhoo" man--

     The scene interposes into--

64--Front of fairy castle.

     Florence and Blinker as Prince and Princess.

     The scene interposes back into--

65--Front of amusement place.

     Blinker and Florence rush in with crowd, all gay and
     hilarious.

Leader--

     SO BLINKER ROLLS UP THE SHIRTSLEEVES OF HIS MIND, AND
     BECOMES AN IDEALIST TOO.

66--A show (Slide).

     Good comedy to get some people coming down a slide, with
     Blinker and Florence among them.

67--Bottom of slide.

     Blinker and Florence get out, gay as can be--and as they
     stroll off, there is a touch of sentiment.

Leader--

     THE PARTING.

68--Park entrance. Night.

     Blinker and Florence. She stops him. He wants to go on with
     her, but she says:

Cut-in leader--

     "I MUST LEAVE YOU HERE. I DON'T WANT TO SPOIL THE FAIRYLAND
     BY SHOWING YOU--'BRICKDUST ROW.'"

     He tries to persuade her. She is firm. Another "date" for
     tomorrow. Off she goes. He the other way.

69--Room.

     Florence in--lights up. Sits to dream of happy day.

70--Blinker's apartment. Lit up.

     Blinker in to find Simonds waiting. Dismisses man, who might
     interrupt dream of happy day by proffer of something--comedy
     chase out, then Blinker back to smoke and smile.

71--Florence's room. Gas-lit.

     Florence rises to remove dress, pauses to look at herself in
     mirror--girlish vanity.

Leader--

     WHEN GANG-LEADER MEETS GANG-LEADER--

72--Front of "Brickdust Row." Night.

     Bill sauntering. Pauses to light cigarette. A rival
     gang-leader comes on. Flash--pistols--bang--other man fires
     first. Bill wings him and turns.

73--Corner. Night.

     "Cop" hears shooting. Listens to locate it.

74--Front of "Row." Night.

     Bill hides gun in coat. Dodges into door.[52]

[Footnote 52: Here Bill is not introduced by leader, but is allowed to characterize himself
in action.]

75--Corner. Night.

     "Cop" looking around--sees--

76--Front of "Row." Night.

     Man lying still.

77--Corner. Night.

     "Cop" blows whistle and runs off.

78--Hall. Gas-lit.

     Bill listening. Up the stairs! He may get away!

79--Front row. Night.

     "Cop" and others gather about man. Several "cops" on at a
     run.

80--Ella's room. Gas-lit.

     Bill looks in doorway. Florence at mirror, about to loosen
     dress. Turns. Bill comes in. He says:

Cut-in leader--

     "LISTEN, SIS--A GUY CROAKED ANOTHER FELLOW--A COP THINKS I
     DONE IT--I DIDN'T--SO HELP ME GOD!"

     He is so pathetic in his fright that she is torn with
     sympathy.

81--"Cops" before "Brickdust Row." Night.

     "Cops" decide to look in house--go in.

82--Ella's room. Gas-lit.

     Florence moves close to Bill and finds gun. He nods--says:

Cut-in leader--

     "THAT'S WHY I'M SCARED--IF THEY FIND IT THEY'LL PINCH
     ME--"[53]

     She nods. Both start, as at a sound.

[Footnote 53: It is, of course, clear to the spectators that he is not telling the truth, though
not so to Florence.]

83--Hall. Gas-lit.

     "Cop" bounding up the stairs.

84--Ella's room. Gas-lit.

     Bill in terror. Florence sees the abject fear in his eyes,
     and the tenderness and protective sympathy of her nature are
     instantly roused. Dropping the gun in a table drawer, and
     sitting down, she motions Bill to sit opposite, and command
     himself. She picks up needlework, and proceeds to chat with
     Bill as unconcernedly as if he were a constant visitor at
     the place.

85--Outside the door of Ella's room. Gas light in room; dimmer light in hall.

     The "cop" comes softly to door, listens, and then pushes
     door quietly inward.

86--Ella's room. Gas-lit.

     As the police officer opens the door and looks in, Florence
     is quietly sewing, and Bill is leaning back, at his ease,
     though it is an effort for him to be unconcerned. He is
     smoking. The officer hesitates. Hold suspense of situation.

87--Front of "Row." Night.

     Ambulance attendants busy over man. Street crowd being
     driven away by several policemen.

88--Ella's room. Gas-lit.

     The officer moves forward, his eyes on Bill. Florence does
     not betray the slightest sign of dismay. She looks at the
     intruder as much in reproof as in surprise. Her steady look
     disconcerts the policeman; he shuffles, clears his throat,
     and explains his search, glancing toward Bill. Florence
     says:

Cut-in leader--

     "LIVING IN THE BACK OF THE HOUSE WE DON'T HEAR MUCH--OR MY
     BROTHER WOULD HAVE GONE DOWN TO SEE WHAT WAS UP."

     Bill takes up the lead she gives by pretending eagerness as
     to what happened, but the officer, after a hasty look out
     over the fire escape, turns and hurries from the room. Bill
     sighs relievedly, and looks at Florence with the same sort
     of light in his eyes that one sees in those of a faithful
     dog. This dog-like devotion is to be the developing keynote
     of Bill's character.

89--Roof of house. Night.

     Policeman comes up on roof, looking around.

90--Ella's room. Gas-lit.

     Bill is thanking Florence. She tells him that she will go
     down and see whether the coast is clear, and he sits down
     with a grateful look as she goes quietly out.[54]

[Footnote 54: Compare the present scene and the one following, in respect to varying treatment
of conveyed information. Here the girl merely indicates what she intends to do, and her statement
of the fact is not given as dialogue-in-scene, since the next scene will make clear her unregistered
words; but see how dialogue-in-scene is employed in the scene that comes next, emphasizing
in the briefest way just what the player feels by what she thinks and unconsciously forms with
her lips.]

91--Front of "Row." Night. From the tenement doorway.

     The injured man is being made to stand. Florence comes into
     the scene, pausing on stoop of the "Row" and watches as the
     injured party feigns great pain, and gasps:

Cut-in leader--

     "HONEST--HE NEAR CROAKED ME. I'M DYIN'--ALL SHOT TO PIECES.
     AN' THE WORST IS I DIDN'T GIT A CHANST TO SHOOT BACK AT
     HIM."

     The ambulance men laugh and tell him to be on his way; he is
     more scared than hurt. Florence's face becomes tense. Her
     lips form the thought that flashes into her mind. "He
     lied--to me!" She turns and goes into house.

92--Ella's room. Gas-lit.

     Bill looks up eagerly as Florence comes in. Then he stares
     as she goes swiftly toward the table drawer. He is quick,
     but not swift enough, in his rush to forestall her as she
     gets his revolver and "breaks" it, so that the empty
     cartridge and five loaded ones drop into her hand.

93--Bust of hand holding discharged cartridge.

     Register the fact that it has been fired.

94--Back to 92.

     Florence looks up slowly. Bill figures that she will give
     him up now, and gives a quick, hunted look around as
     Florence closes the weapon and lays it on the table, fully
     convinced that she has been lied to. She stands looking down
     at the weapon, her face brooding. Suspense. What will she do
     about it?

95--Roof of house. Night.

     "Cop," with another. No use looking further. Separate, one
     going down into tenement again, other across roof toward
     another descent.

96--Ella's room--looking toward door. Gas-lit.

     Bill in an agony of terror as he hears policeman tramping
     toward door. Florence looks up, and moves toward Bill, who
     cowers. The door starts to open. Florence pities Bill now.

97--Ella's room--from hall, through opening door. Gas-lit.

     The policeman is going to be crafty; he opens door, very
     softly, and as he peers in, he sees--Florence slipping her
     arms about Bill's neck, giving him a sisterly kiss as she
     says:

Cut-in leader--

     "GOODNIGHT, BUDDY. GIVE THE KIDDIES A KISS FROM ME."

     Convinced, the officer draws away and goes from scene. Bill
     can be seen touching cheek Florence kissed, looking at
     finger as if expecting it to show the mark of contact.

98--Close-up in room, from another angle, to get Florence in profile.

     Bill slowly and reverently takes Florence's hand, and with
     devotion in every line, says fervently:

Cut-in leader--

     "KID--YOU'RE CERTAINLY WHITE! AND YOU ARE 'LITTLE SIS'
     TO ME FROM NOW ON!"

     Saying nothing more, but looking at her with devoted eyes,
     as she stands smiling her gentle smile, he goes to fire
     escape, and as he descends--Fade slowly out.

Leader--

     BILL BECOMES THE FAITHFUL WATCHDOG, ASKING ONLY A PAT, AND
     IS ETERNALLY VIGILANT LEST HARM COME TO THE OBJECT OF HIS
     DEVOTION.

     Diaphragm in:

99--Park entrance.

     Florence waiting. Bill is coming down path. He sees her and
     advances--but she meets Blinker, who is gay and delighted.
     They go.

100--Close-up of Bill.

     No jealousy--but suspicion. Bill thinks such a man can mean
     no good. He starts off.

101--Wider view.

     Bill seen to be shadowing Blinker and Florence.

Leader--

     CONVINCED THAT "A GUY" OF BLINKER'S APPARENT AFFLUENCE CAN
     MEAN NO GOOD TO A "SKIRT LIKE SIS," THE WATCHDOG INVADES
     FAIRYLAND.

102--Steeplechase Pier.

     Crowd coming off boat. Florence and Blinker. After them,
     shadowing, comes Bill.

Leader--

     THIS TIME, THERE IS NO TIME LOST BY THE INFATUATED BLINKER,
     IN GETTING INTO THE SPIRIT OF THE REVELRY.

103--Any different amusement device.

     Blinker with Florence--having a grand time. Show Bill aloof
     but watchful, evading discovery carefully.

Leader--

     THE WALKING BEAM OF A CONEY ISLAND BOAT MAKES JUST ENOUGH
     NOISE TO ENABLE TWO TO CONVERSE COZILY ALOOF FROM THEIR
     NEIGHBORS.

104--By walking beam.

     Wide enough to show several couples--Florence and Blinker
     among them; narrows down to those two, after Bill is
     established in background, watchful but not interfering.

105--Close-up of Blinker.

     Blinker, in spell of love, says:

Cut-in leader--

     "FLORENCE--I--LOVE YOU!"

     Waits, breathless.

106--Close-up of Florence.

     She laughs a little tremulously but recklessly and says:

Cut-in leader--

     "THAT'S WHAT THEY ALL SAY."

     She begins to hum.

107--Close-up of Blinker.

     He is a little impatient, and says:

Cut-in leader--

     "I AM RICH. I CAN GIVE YOU MANY THINGS--"

     He is interrupted.[55]

[Footnote 55: Sketchy, because in this case, "O. Henry" leaders are the important thing--and
they give sufficient clue to the action required.]

108--Close-up of Florence.

     She laughs a little, and says:

Cut-in leader--

     "THAT'S WHAT THEY ALL SAY."

     She is playing with him, and yet telling truth.

109--Close-up of Blinker.

     He is impatient at this repetition. Says:

Cut-in leader--

     "I DON'T LIKE YOU TO KEEP SAYING THAT!"

     He is annoyed. She is not taking him seriously.

110--Close-up of Florence.

     She looks at him--wonders--says:

Cut-in leader--

     "WHY SHOULDN'T I SAY IT? THEY DO!"

     He is puzzled.

111--Close-up of Blinker.

     Surprised--puzzled--angered--says:

Cut-in leader--

     "WHO ARE--'THEY'?"

     Jealous and anxious.

112--Close-up of Florence.

     Surprised--innocent. Says:

Cut-in leader--

     "WHY, THE MEN I MEET."

     What is he driving at?

113--Both--in wider view.

     Florence wondering. He changes expression. Growing tension.
     Asks her:

Cut-in leader--

     "WHERE DO YOU MEET--THESE MEN?"

     She looks wide-eyed--surprised--answers:

Cut-in leader--

     "I MEET THEM--AS I DID YOU--"

     Blinker aghast. Asks:

Cut-in leader--

     "DO YOU KNOW SO MANY?"

     She allows herself a laugh--says:

Cut-in leader--

     "WELL I'M NOT EXACTLY A WALL FLOWER."

     He turns away.

114--Close-up of Blinker.

     Growing tension--it is sinking in, and finally his
     expression grows harder.

115--Close-up of Florence.

     She wonders--finally asks:

Cut-in leader--

     "WHAT'S WRONG?"

     Her lips part in amazed terror.

116--New angle. Close-up of Blinker.

     Swings upon her and cries:

Cut-in leader--

     "EVERYTHING'S WRONG! WHY DON'T YOU SEE THESE--THESE MEN--AT
     YOUR HOME? IS IT NECESSARY TO MEET EVERY TOM, DICK AND
     HARRY--OUTSIDE?"

     He is growing furious. So that is the sort she is!

117--Profile close-up of Florence.

     She laughs. Her voice is brassy-hard, saying:

Cut-in leader--

     "IF YOU COULD SEE 'BRICKDUST ROW' YOU WOULDN'T ASK THAT. THE
     FELLOW WHO OWNS IT DOESN'T GIVE US ANY PLACE TO RECEIVE--AND
     WE CAN'T TAKE FELLOWS TO OUR ROOM--SO--"

     Shrugs.

118--Wider-angle view, with Blinker nearest camera.

     Tension. Big scene as he gets over his horror and disgust
     and she realizes it, and rising, disillusioned--exactly as
     he feels that he is disillusioned about her--Sudden pause--

119--Deck, ad lib.

     Fire! Excitement. "Where?"--"What'll we do?"[56]

[Footnote 56: Sketchy, as this sort of material has to depend on boat, crowd, director, etc.
Continuity only required.]

120--Deck, another part.

     Panic. Woman screams.

121--Walking beam.

     Excited scattering of crowd. Florence turning away--Bill
     coming forward--Blinker listening. He grabs Florence by arm.
     She draws away. He compels her to go.

122--Deck.

     Tension. Wild scene.

123--Walking beam.

     Bill follows, crowd intervening, as Blinker takes Florence
     off. Bill gets after them.

124--Boat davits.

     Wild scene. Officer. Sailors. Fire and smoke. Blinker with
     Florence. Takes her away--another boat!

125--Another boat.

     Crowd more orderly. Women being helped into boat. Blinker
     on with Florence. Takes her to boat.

126--Boat davits.

     Sailors shot at by officer. Surge away and off.

127--Fire blazing. Sailors lose heads--dash back from fire and toward--

128--Other boat.

     Fire coming. Florence by boat. Sailors rush on and fight.
     Get officer's gun. Surround Florence and Blinker.

129--Different angle.

     Blinker fighting to save Florence.

130--Different view.

     Fire coming on. Bill fighting way toward Blinker and
     Florence.

131--Other boat.

     Blinker fighting. Florence separated from him. Bill fights
     way to his side. They notice one another as men with same
     idea--join back to back. Florence forced away. They try to
     get to her. Surge of sailors over-runs them.[57]

[Footnote 57: Necessary departure from O. Henry, to build up Blinker's good qualities, and
achieve a preparation for new finish.]

132--Deck rail.

     Florence staggers on. Flames coming. Great God! What shall
     she do? Off she races.

133--Boat davits.

     Flames leaping. Florence just in time to see boat lowered
     away. Too late. Driven back.

134--Other boat.

     Bill and Blinker together. Several sailors done for, others
     lower boat and go. Men peer about, but smoke too thick for
     them to see.

135--Rail.

     Florence in terror. Sudden blast of flame. On rail. Leaps.

     Diaphragm out.[58]

     Diaphragm in:

[Footnote 58: Purposely uncompleted to give suspense strength to hold over into next--slowing--episode.]

136--Blinker's apartment.

     Man caring for Blinker, somewhat burned. Sad and downcast.
     Man admits Oldport. Lawyer listens to story.

137--Hospital entry.

     Bill comes out, discharged--head bandaged. He takes a card
     out of pocket--looks and puts back. He does not know what to
     do, then decides, and goes off.[59]

[Footnote 59: Observe how girl's fate is withheld till disposition of less important characters
is shown.]

138--Ella's room.

     Florence in bed. Ella attending. Bill knocks, is admitted.

139--Blinker's apartment.

     Oldport sees Blinker is able to talk business. He assumes
     quizzical air, says:

Cut-in leader--

     "MAYBE I CAN KEEP YOU HERE LONG ENOUGH TO TAKE UP THAT
     DEFERRED MATTER--"

     Blinker wearily assents. Oldport begins:

Cut-in leader--

     "YOUR FATHER INTENDED THAT THE PARLORS OF CERTAIN BUILDINGS
     SHOULD BE USED BY THE GIRL-TENANTS AS PLACES WHEREIN TO
     ENTERTAIN THEIR MALE CALLERS."

     Blinker gives start of surprise--query--agony--cries out:

Cut-in leader--

     "'BRICKDUST ROW,' FOR A MILLION!"

     Oldport smiles:

Cut-in leader--

     "I BELIEVE THE GIRLS HAVE SOME SUCH NICKNAME FOR IT. WHAT
     SHALL I DO?"

     Horrible! Blinker in spasm of anguish:

Cut-in leader--

     "BURN IT! RAZE IT! DO WHAT YOU LIKE--BUT I TELL YOU--IT'S
     TOO LATE, MAN--IT'S TOO LATE!--"

     He flings away.

140--Ella's room.

     Bill chatting with Ella. Seems to have good feeling for
     her--devouring hot-cake she has made as he talks with
     Florence, who is sitting up. He takes out card, says:

Cut-in leader--

     "THAT GUY YOU WAS WID--IS HE ON THE SQUARE?--HE AST ME TO
     CALL ON HIM--"

     Florence suddenly recalls all that has happened. She turns
     her face away, unable to control tears of despondency.

141--Blinker's apartment.

     Oldport goes. Blinker "chases" his man, sits in bad mood,
     sour and lovelorn by turns.

142--Ella's room.

     Bill dismayed--demands what he has said. Florence sits
     up--controls herself. Says, gently:

Cut-in leader--

     "HE--HE ISN'T GOING TO--SEE ME ANY MORE--I GUESS."

     Bill is all anger--"Why?" She tells him:

Cut-in leader--

     "I DON'T THINK--OUR--WAYS OF LIVING--"

     She breaks down.

143--Close-up of Bill.

     "The son of a brat!"--so he has chucked "Little Sis" has he,
     the rich piker? Well, Bill can see about that! Of course he
     thinks the worst of Blinker.

144--Wider-angle view.

     Bill rises and tiptoes out. Florence weeping softly with
     Ella comforting--rough yet tender.

145--Blinker's apartment.

     Man admits Bill and is dismissed. Blinker hearty--then sees
     Bill's anger. Rises. Big scene where Bill denounces him,
     saying:

Cut-in leader--

     "YOU GOT TO BE SQUARE WITH THAT KID!"

     Blinker misunderstands. Bill comes near to throttling him,
     before Blinker can gasp:

Cut-in leader--

     "YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND--IT WAS ONLY A DIFFERENCE
     OF--OPINION--"

     Bill waits to find out. Blinker hesitates, then, seeing
     threat, begins to explain.

146--Ella's room.

     Florence seems to be asleep, and Ella sneaks off for some
     milk or something. Florence gets up, sad and despondent.
     Slowly begins to dress.

147--Blinker's apartment.

     Bill amazed at Blinker, who ends up:

Cut-in leader--

     "IT'S A QUESTION OF ETHICS--"

     Bill glowers and snaps:

Cut-in leader--

     "ETHICS BE DAMNED! IT'S A QUESTION OF--ARE YOU GOIN' TUH
     BLAME HER FOR THE VERY THING YOU MADE HER DO?"

     Blinker begins to consider.

148--Ella's room.

     Florence dressing (suspense: Does she recall that revolver
     and want to add her tragedy to the dreary ones of "Brickdust
     Row?")

149--Blinker's apartment.

     Big realization--"All my fault." Blinker goes off with Bill.

150--Ella's room.

     Ella soothing Florence. Latter does not wish to live. All
     life is black before her.

151--Hall outside door.

     Comedy relief as Bill and Blinker come on and latter draws
     back in a natural suspense as to his reception and Bill
     tells him to "beat it on in!" Blinker knocks, and goes in.
     Bill pauses.

152--Ella's room.

     Florence looks up. Ella surprised. Blinker pauses. Ella
     seems to be attracted by something.

153--Crack of open door.

     Bill is making violent gestures to get Ella out.

154--Ella's room.

     Ella catches Bill's idea, and moves unostentatiously out.
     Then Blinker strides to Florence. He says:

Cut-in leader--

     "IT'S ALL WRONG. I'VE COME TO SQUARE IT."

     Florence is reserved, chilly, as she says:

Cut-in leader--

     "YOU MEAN--ABOUT THE PARLORS?"

     Blinker is beside her, and catching her hands he cries:

Cut-in leader--

     "I MEAN--ABOUT YOU!--AND ME!"

     In spite of herself, Florence is forced to lift her eyes,
     and as she reads the look in his own she is compelled to
     realize that the air is cleared at last and that the
     happiness that seemed dead is again alive--palpitant
     happiness that draws her into his ready arms.

155--Hall outside Ella's room.

     Bill "fixes it up" with Ella to "travel double." She wants
     to rush in and tell her chum, but Bill stays her: "Nix--let
     'em do some clinchin' first!"

156--Ella's room.

     Florence and Blinker embracing.

     Circle diaphragm closes to blackness.[60]

[Footnote 60: This is the script before it reached production. If you see the picture you will
no doubt observe directorial alterations that came up during production. In that case you will
have valuable experience in seeing the difference between the original--the script-writer's
conception--and the directorial interpretation.]

CHAPTER XXI

MARKETING THE PHOTOPLAY SCRIPT

Writing the photoplay is essentially an art; marketing the photoplay script is a business;
and the sooner the writer adopts intelligent, up-to-date business methods in offering his stories,
the sooner he is likely to find the checks coming in. It is not enough merely to send out your
script; it must be sent to that editor who is in the market for the kind of script you have
written. As one editor has said, "Don't send a Biblical photoplay to a firm that makes a specialty
of Indian and cowboy subjects."

Your first care, then, should be to have as complete a knowledge as possible of what every
company is doing, what kinds of stories they need at the time, where their field-companies
are working, and, above all, what kinds of scripts certain companies positively do not want
at any time. For of course, there are companies with definitely fixed policies, besides concerns
that announce from time to time that they are unable to use stories of this or that sort.

The most important aids to a thorough knowledge of the photoplay market are the different moving-picture
trade-journals and the magazines published exclusively for writers.[61] By studying them you
will equip yourself with a first-hand knowledge of what the different studio editors need,
and so be on the right road. Don't take a gambler's chance by sending out your scripts without
knowing precisely what is a good prospect.

[Footnote 61: See Chapter XIV.]

In almost every one of the foregoing chapters we have raised points that bear upon the selling
of your story as well as affect the particular part of the script then being discussed. To
repeat one instance, you were advised not only to satisfy yourself that a company is in the
market for society stories, but to look into the nature of the stock-company producing their
plays. If the company you select is one that features a woman in most of its picture-stories,
and yours is a photoplay with a strong male lead, you would be unwise to submit it there. True,
it might be accepted and one of the studio writers commissioned to rewrite it in order to give
the "fat" part to the leading woman, but your check would be proportionately smaller to compensate
for the rewriting--you would, in fact, be paid little more than if you had sold the bare idea.

In submitting your script to a given company, do not address it to individuals, unless there
is a very good reason for so doing--and there seldom is. Address your letter either to the
"Editor, Blank Film Company," or to the "Manuscript Department." Most useless of all is the
practice of sending to some person who is known to be associated with a certain company, without
knowing just what his position is.

Once the photoplaywright has begun to sell his scripts, he will usually prefer to do his own
marketing. If, he argues, he is able to write salable photoplays, why should he share his checks
with authors' agents or photoplay clearing houses? Yet many writers find an agency to be advantageous.
But you had better take the advice of an experienced friend before committing your work to
an intermediary--not all are capable and not all are honest.

One thing the writer should remember: Send a script to only one firm at a time. There is one
company at least, and there may be more, which announces that no carbon copies of scripts will
be considered. The implication, of course, is that they are afraid to pass on carbon copies
for fear that at the time they are looking over a script it may have been already purchased
by some other company. If you do send out a carbon copy of your script, make it plain to the
editor in your accompanying letter that the original script has gone astray or been destroyed,
and you are sending the carbon in its place for that reason. But why send a carbon script at
all? If you think enough of your work to want to see it well-dressed, make a clean, fresh copy
and take no risks.

It is literally true that many an author has spoiled his chances of ever selling to certain
companies because he sold a story to a second company before making certain that it had been
rejected by the first to which it was sent. Imagine the complication of receiving a check from
B shortly after the author has had word that A has purchased the same story!

A manuscript should never be rolled--it irritates a busy editor to have to straighten out a
persistently curling package of manuscript.

The sheets should not be permanently fastened together. It is simple diplomacy to make the
reading of your script an agreeable task instead of an annoyance.

Do not fold an 8-1/2 x 11-inch sheet of paper more than twice. Fold it but once, or else make
two even folds and the script will be in proper form to fit the legal-sized envelope. Heavy
manilla envelopes are the strongest, but we have never had cause to complain of the white,
stamped envelopes to be had at any post-office. If you choose to use these, ask for sizes 8
and 9. Your script, folded twice, will fit snugly into the size 8, which is to be the self-addressed
return envelope. Do not put your MS. in the return envelope. In enclosing the smaller envelope,
turn it with the open side down, so as to avoid having the flap cut when the outer envelope
is opened with a paper knife.

Attach the full amount of postage to both envelopes; never enclose loose stamps--and never
forget to stamp the inner envelope if you wish to get your manuscript back in case of rejection.
At this writing (February, 1919), a three-cent stamp will bring it back to you, but you will
have to pay whatever else is due before receiving the letter; and if the story sells, and you
receive nothing but the check, you will have the satisfaction of knowing that you have not
been stingily economical in sending it out.

See that your name and address are on the upper left-hand corner of the going envelope; be
sure, too, that the return envelope is properly self-addressed.

We should not advise the young writer to put the price demanded for his script in the upper
right-hand corner of the first sheet, though this is where it should go if he does wish to
stipulate the amount for which he will sell it. It is very much better simply to write: "Submitted
at usual rates." Even after you have sold to a given company, it is better, as a rule, to leave
the matter of payment to the editor. You may be sure that he will pay you just as much as your
story is worth, being governed only by the price-limit fixed by the manufacturer. Today, almost
every manufacturer realizes that the day of getting "something for nothing" is past. In other
words, he realizes that the script--the story--is the very keystone of the photoplay arch,
and if the story is purchased from a free-lance writer, he must be prepared to pay a fair price
for it.

It is impossible, in a work of this kind, to say what certain companies are in the habit of
paying, but it may roughly be said that the minimum price per reel today is $50. Most of the
larger producing companies are glad to pay a minimum of $100 per reel for satisfactory material,
and $1,000 for a five-reel script--or even for a five-reel story in synopsis form, if that
is the company's policy--is regularly paid by those who are entitled to be called "the leading
producers." Most companies have a fixed, uniform price-scale; and it would be silly for any
one to say that you will be paid a certain amount for your story "if it suits them." We have
in mind a certain large company that is in the habit of paying $1,000 for all the five-reel
synopses it purchases. If your story is not what this company wants, of course it will not
be purchased at all. If your story does suit them, you may be certain of receiving a check
for $1,000 at least--and we say "at least" because they have been known to pay still higher
prices if the story is really unusual and hence especially valuable to them. This same company--as
do nearly all concerns--frequently pays a price greatly exceeding $1,000 for the work of authors
with "big names," because, of course, the value of the big name is not to be denied.

Experience alone will teach you which companies pay the best prices; after you have sold several
scripts, and have become acquainted with the price-scale of different studios, you will, if
the play suits that particular market, naturally offer your material first to the company that
has paid you best. But just as soon as a script comes back from one company--so long as you
feel certain that it is not in your power to improve it before letting it go out again--send
it out to another, and then to another, until it is either accepted or so worn or soiled that
it is politic to recopy it. And don't wait too long to do this simple act of justice to your
brain-child. Whatever you do, don't stop with three or four rejections--keep at it until you
are sure the market is exhausted. But be certain to review your script for possible improvements
each time it comes back to you.

Keep up your output. Do not write one story, send it out, and then wait patiently for its return,
or for the editor's check. Plan a new story, write it, and send it out. Then plan another and
follow the same course. Photoplay marketing is a business, and a business man is usually "on
the job" six days a week.

It is best not to write a letter to the editor, to accompany your script, unless there is a
very special reason for so doing. Nor should the writer rush a letter of inquiry off in case
he does not hear from the editor within a week or two after submitting his story. Delay may
be a hopeful sign. If you hear nothing in two months it is time enough to write--briefly and
courteously. Nearly all companies, however, will report well within that period.

It is utterly impossible in a work of this nature to include a list of the requirements of
every photoplay editor. The policy of the manufacturers is always subject to change. Their
requirements are governed by the number of scripts of each kind they have on hand, the disposal
of their field-companies, the season of the year, the ability of their directors to turn out
the various kinds of pictures, and also by individual preferences.

The way to keep posted on the current needs of the various companies is to study on the screen
the pictures of the different producing firms; to read in the trade-journals the synopses of
all the releases that you do not have the opportunity of witnessing; and to keep in touch with
the announcements made by the manufacturers themselves in the weekly and monthly journals mentioned
in Chapter XIV.

"Where and How to Sell Manuscripts," by William B. McCourtie, issued by the publishers of this
book ($2.50), contains a frequently revised list of over 5,000 markets for literary material
of all sorts, including photoplays.

Keep a record of every script you send out. Here is one simple form for a manuscript book or
card index:

---------------------------------------------------------------
Title | Sent to | Returned from | Date | Sold to | Date | Price
      |         |               |      |         |      |
      |         |               |      |         |      |
      |         |               |      |         |      |

Do not let the printed rejection slip humiliate you. Really great writers get them, constantly.
This statement is equally true of both fiction and photoplay writing. It would take too much
time and money for an editorial staff to write personal letters to all who offer unsolicited
manuscript.

Never write petulant or sarcastic letters when your offerings are rejected. You may need the
good-will of that editor some day. Although personal pique seldom actuates him, he may be frail
enough to be annoyed when his well-meant efforts are assailed.

APPENDICES

APPENDIX A

SOME BOOKS DEALING WITH PLOT IN FICTION

1. MOULTON, RICHARD G.; Shakespeare as a Dramatic Artist, Oxford Press, New York, 1885.

2. PRICE, WILLIAM T.; Technique of the Drama, Brentano, New York, 1892.

3. BARRETT, CHARLES RAYMOND; Short Story Writing, Baker & Taylor, New York, 1900.

4. PERRY, BLISS; A Study of Prose Fiction, Houghton, Mifflin, Boston, 1902.

5. ALBRIGHT, EVELYN MAY; The Short-Story, Macmillan, New York, 1907.

6. HAMILTON, CLAYTON; Materials and Methods of Fiction, Baker & Taylor, New York, 1908.

7. ESENWEIN, J. BERG; Writing the Short-Story, Home Correspondence School, Springfield, Mass.,
1909 and 1918.

8. PHILLIPS, HENRY ALBERT; The Plot of the Short-Story. Out of print. See any large library.

9. PITKIN, WALTER B.; The Art and the Business of Story Writing, Macmillan, 1912.

10. ESENWEIN, J. BERG, and CHAMBERS, MARY B.; The Art of Story Writing, Home Correspondence
School, 1913.

11. WELLS, CAROLYN; The Technique of the Mystery Story, Home Correspondence School, 1913.

12. NEAL, ROBERT WILSON; Short Stories in the Making, Oxford University Press, New York, 1914.

13. NOTESTEIN, LUCY LILIAN, and DUNN, WALDO HILARY; The Modern Short-Story, Barnes, New York, 1914.

14. PHILLIPS, HENRY ALBERT; Universal Plot Catalogue, Stanhope-Dodge, 1915.

15. PAIN, BARRY; The Short Story, Doran, New York, 1916.

16. BAKER, HARRY T.; The Contemporary Short Story, Heath, Boston, 1916.

17. WILLIAMS, BLANCHE COLTON; A Handbook on Story Writing, Dodd, Mead, New York, 1917.

APPENDIX B

ESPECIALLY HELPFUL BOOKS ON PHOTOPLAY WRITING

1. SARGENT, EPES WINTHROP; The Technique of the Photoplay, Moving Picture World, New York,
1913. Third edition, 1917.

2. PHILLIPS, HENRY ALBERT; The Photodrama, Stanhope-Dodge Co., Larchmont, N.Y., 1914.

3. POWELL, A. VAN BUREN; The Photoplay Synopsis, Home Correspondence School, Springfield, Mass.,
1919.

INDEX

Names of authors and companies are printed in capitals; titles, and names of magazines, are
printed in italics; and other topics are set in plain, or "Roman" type.

A

Action, 3, 4, 30, 134-141, 313, 314.

Adrift, 294.

Adventure, 305.

After Fifty Years, 360.

ALBRIGHT, EVELYN MAY, 74, 87, 90.

AMBROSIO COMPANY, 360.

AMERICAN COMPANY, 92, 268, 290.

Animals, 278, 279.

Annie Crawls Upstairs, 358-360.

ARTCRAFT, 79.

B

Backgrounds, 201.

BALZAC, 348.

BARRETT, CHARLES RAYMOND, 28, 74.

Bells, The, 317-320.

BIOGRAPH, 153, 155, 156, 201.

Blue Book, The, 355.

Bookman, The, 356.

Bottle Imp, The, 361.

BREWSTER, EUGENE V., 264, 265.

Brickdust Row, 363, 365.

Bringing Up Father, 343.

BROWNING, ROBERT, 358-360.

Burlesque, 325, 326.

BUSH, W. STEPHEN, 282, 283.

Bust, The, 17, 18, 163-166.

BYRNE BROTHERS, 326.

C

CABANNE, WILLIAM CHRISTY, 252.

Camera, 18.

Cameraman, 18.

Camera tricks, 181-185.

Cask of Amontillado, The, 348-350.

Cast, 18, 31, 32, 37, 109-130, 370.

Censorship, 282-289, 341.

Center of interest, 141-143.

Changes of scene, 144-161.

Characters, 18, 109-130, 140, 142, 315, 316, 337, 338.

Child actors, 279, 288.

Class Reunion, The, 353.

Cleopatsy, 342.

Climax, 26, 194.

Close-up, 18, 166-176.

COFFEY, ROBERT E., 297.

COHAN, GEORGE, 289.

COLLINS, WILKIE, 305.

Comedy Photoplays, 2, 83, 84, 324-346.

Coming Nation, The, 292, 293.

Complication, 89.

Conciseness, 198, 199.

Continuity: See "Scenario."

COOPER, FREDERICK TABER, 356.

Cooper-Hewitt lights, 247.

Cord of Life, The, 155, 156.

Costume plays, 280.

Count of Monte Cristo, The, 189, 190.

COWELL, HARRY, 75, 77.

Crime in photoplays, 284, 285.

Cut-back, 19, 152-157.

Cut-in, 19, 158-161, 233-237.

Cutting, 19.

D

Daphne and the Pirates, 253.

Denouement, 89.

Devil Stone, The, 236, 237, 321.

Dialogue, 3, 200, 201.

Diaphragm, 19, 20.

Diaphragming-in and -out: See "Fade-in," and "Fade-out."

DICKENS, CHARLES, 185-187.

Director, 20, 115, 116, 212-214.

Doing a picture, 20.

Double exposure, 20, 185-188.

DOYLE, A. CONAN, 348-351, 354.

Dramatic Mirror, The, 140, 263, 357.

Dramatic photoplay, The, 2.

Dreams, 176-181.

DREW, JOHN, 333.

DREW, MR. AND MRS. SIDNEY, 329, 333-335.

Dual-character films, 185-188.

Duchess at Prayer, The, 348.

DUMAS, ALEXANDER, 189.

E

Eagle's Eye, The, 181-183, 196, 274.

EDISON, 3, 78, 111, 172, 275, 297, 358-360.

Editing a Motion Picture, 227.

Editor, 20, 84, 85.

Educational films, 2, 3.

"EDWARDS, JOHN MILTON," 82.

Eight Bells, 326.

Episode, 194.

ESSANAY, 77.

Everybody's Girl, 363-407.

Expense of production, 268-281.

Exteriors, 20, 248, 249.

Extras, 21.

Extravaganza, 326.

F

Fade in, 21.

Fade out, 21.

FAIRBANKS, DOUGLAS, 2, 102.

"Faked" scenes, 269-272.

FAMOUS PLAYERS, 189, 190.

Farce, 2, 324, 325.

FARNUM, WILLIAM, 186.

Feature photoplays, 24, 188-193.

Fiction Factory, The, 82.

Fiction writing an aid to photoplay writing, 5-16.

Figaro, Paris, 308, 309.

FILDEW, WILLIAM E., 252, 253.

Film, 21, 22.

FINE ARTS, 253.

FISHER, "BUD," 343.

Footage, 22.

Fox, 186-188.

Frame, 22.

FROHMAN, DANIEL, 304.

G

GOLDWYN, 85.

Grande Bretêche, La, 348.

GREEN, ANNA KATHERINE, 138.

GRIFFITH, D.W., 153, 157, 167, 226, 336.

H

Hackneyed themes, 296-300.

HALÉVY, LUDOVIC, 307.

Hamlet, 325, 326.

HARRISON, LOUIS REEVES, 91, 293.

HAZARD, FLOYD HAMILTON, 304, 322.

HAZLITT, WILLIAM, 338.

Heart-interest, 293, 305.

Hearts of the World, 157.

"HENRY, O.," 201, 351, 352, 363.

HOADLEY, C.B., 132, 149.

HOAGLAND, HERBERT CASE, 134, 138, 301, 322, 356.

HOFFMAN, ARTHUR S., 305, 306.

How to Write a Photoplay, 134, 301, 356.

Human interest, 305, 306.

Humor: See "Comedy."

I

Idea, 22.

In the Country God Forgot, 82.

Incendiary Foreman, The, 273.

Insert, 22, 157-161, 218-244.

Interest centralized, 141-143.

Interpose, 22, 387.

Intolerance, 167, 168.

IRVING, SIR HENRY, 317.

IRWIN, MAY, 325.

J

JACOBS, W.W., 355.

JOHNSON, SAMUEL, 415.

K

Kaiser, The, 127.

KALEM, 132.

KATTERJOHN, MONTE M., 302.

KEENAN, FRANK, 320.

KEYSTONE COMEDY, 329.

L

LANG, PHIL, 132, 133.

Leaders, 4, 22, 157-161, 218-244.

Leavenworth Case, The, 138.

Letters, 237-242.

Lighting, 247-249, 280, 281.

Little Stone God, The, 355.

Location, 22, 23, 166.

LUBIN, 78.

M

Macbeth, 282, 318.

MACGRATH, HAROLD, 301, 302.

MCMANUS, GEORGE, 343.

Magazine Maker, The, 75, 77.

Manuscript record, 415.

Marketing the photoplay, 408-415.

Mask, 161-163.

MAUDE, CYRIL, 333.

MAUPASSANT, GUY DE, 351.

Memories, 176-181.

MERWIN, BANNISTER, 172-175, 192, 197, 297.

METRO, 333.

Monkey's Paw, The, 355.

MOORE, JOHN ROBERT, 361, 362.

Mortmain, 184, 185.

Motion Picture Classic, 263.

Motion Picture Magazine, 263, 264.

Motion Picture News, 263, 336.

Motion Picture Story, The, 242.

Motivation, 88.

Motography, 263.

Moving Picture Stories, 15, 264.

Moving Picture World, The, 29, 91, 103, 120-122, 132, 133, 174, 227, 231, 252, 253, 263, 282,
283, 286, 293, 332, 334, 335.

Multiple reel, 23, 24.

Murders in the Rue Morgue, The, 361.

Mutt and Jeff, 343.

N

Names, 120-126.

Necklace, The, 351.

Negative, 23.

NEHLS, R.R., 92, 268, 270, 290, 291.

NESTOR, 34.

New Catacomb, The, 348-350, 354.

O

Objectionable subjects, 282-303.

Old Musician, The, 129.

OPPENHEIM, JAMES, 358-360.

Originality, 260-262, 347-362.

Outdoor scenes, 20, 248, 249.

Over-condensation, 199, 223-225.

P

Padding, 189.

"Panorams," 168, 235.

PARAMOUNT, 127, 236, 321.

Part, 24.

PATHÉ, 273, 319, 322, 342.

PHILLIPS, HENRY ALBERT, 87.

Photographing, 208-210.

Photoplay:
  construction of, defined, 1-4;
  kinds of, 2;
  terms, 17-28.

Photoplay Author, The: See The Writer's Monthly.

Photoplay Magazine, 286, 288.

PICKFORD, MARY, 168.

Picture-Play Magazine, 263.

Pierre of the North, 129.

Pippa Passes, 358-360.

Plagiarism, 350-357.

Plot, 7, 8, 16, 23, 30, 87-95, 136, 255-266.

Plot of the Short Story, The, 23, 87.

POE, EDGAR ALLAN, 348-350, 361, 362.

Positive, 23.

POWELL, A. VAN BUREN, 363-407.

PREVOST, MARCEL, 308.

PRIBYL, JOHN F., 283-285.

Print, 23.

R

Red Cross, 3, 300.

Reel, 24.

REEVE, ARTHUR B., 193.

Reformation of Calliope, The, 352.

Register, 24, 25.

Rehearsals, 249, 250.

Release, 25.

S

SARGENT, EPES WINTHROP, 29, 77, 103, 107, 120-122, 156, 157, 165, 172, 175, 228, 242, 250,
290, 305, 332.

Scenario, 19, 25, 29, 32, 37-54, 131-203, 371-407.

Scene, 25, 144-161, 204-217, 231.

Scene-plot, 25, 32, 33, 204-217.

Script, 25, 26;
  its component parts, 29-33;
  mechanical preparation of, 55-71.

SEITZ, GEORGE B., 194.

SELIG, 2, 78, 129, 189, 190, 283-285.

Sequence in the action, 135-137.

Serials, 26, 193.

Set, 26, 204-217.

Setting, 26, 166, 204-217.

Short Story, The, 74, 87, 90.

Short-Story Writing, 28.

Situation, 26, 27.

Split reel: See "Reel."

Stage, 27, 245-254.

Stock people, 27.

Stop-camera work, 176-181.

STORY, WALTER, 283-285.

Strand Magazine, 352, 354.

STRINGER, ARTHUR, 184, 185.

Struggle, 89.

Studio, 27.

Subject, 28.

Sub-title: See "Leader."

SULLIVAN, C. GARDNER, 127.

Sun, New York, 304.

Sun, Sand and Solitude, 82.

Superba, 326.

Super-imposure: See "Double exposure."

Suspense, 137-140, 157, 195.

Swell Miss Fitzwell, The, 325.

Synopsis, 31, 35-37, 87-109, 365-370.

T

Tale of Two Cities, A, 185-187.

Technique of the Photoplay, The, 165, 242.

THANHOUSER, 272.

Themes, desirable, 304-323;
  undesirable, 282-303.

Thirteenth Man, The, 353.

THOMAS, A.W., 288.

Three Friends, 153, 201.

Tinting, 28.

Title, 28, 72-86.

TREMAYNE, W.A., 129.

TRIANGLE, 79, 127.

Trite themes, 296-300.

Typewriting, 59-70.

U

UNIVERSAL, 34, 127, 297.

V

VERNE, JULES, 311.

Visions, 28, 176-181.

Visualization, 132, 133.

VITAGRAPH, 106, 107, 129, 171, 172, 184, 185, 277, 278, 297, 302, 350, 363.

W

Wasted Sacrifice, A, 106, 107, 277, 278, 302.

WEBER, LOIS, 231.

WELLS, ELMER N., 129.

WHARTON, 181-183, 196, 274.

WHARTON, EDITH, 348.

Without Reward, 34-54, 208-212.

WOODS, FRANK E., 226, 227, 357.

WRIGHT, WILLIAM LORD, 242, 243.

Writers of photoplays,
  Previous training of, 5-16.

Writer's Monthly, The, 98, 107, 132, 149, 264.

Writing for the Magazines, 338-341.

Writing the Short-Story, 23, 77, 87, 357.