"A plague on all lovers, say I; a plague on lovers who for a woman, one solitary woman, when
there is so abundant a choice of such commodity in Spain, can be stimulated to cut the throats
of each other, risk all sorts of perils, and undergo all the miseries that can afflict human
nature. Fye! fye----"

"Peace, thou wretch!" exclaimed Don Rodrigo; "profane not with thy foul remarks and scurrilous
rebukes, that tender sentiment which thine own gross and brutish disposition is neither competent
to appreciate nor enjoy."

"And most humbly," returned Peregil, "do I thank providence for having given me a heart withal
so brutish and so gross, since those refined pleasures and feelings which are likely to lead
a man into mischief, are in direct opposition to my taste. Now tell me, my honored master,
is there any law, either human or divine, which ordains that, because you most desperately
love Leonor de Aguilar, and Leonor de Aguilar as cordially dislikes you, I, who am by no means
a party concerned in this love or hatred, ought to be exposed to all the united miseries of
hunger and thirst, fatigue, dangers, and even death?"

Don Rodrigo, occupied with very different subjects, heard not the flippant observations of
his servant, when suddenly, as they were approaching the skirts of a wood, his reflections
and the valet's impertinent loquacity were cut short by the unwelcome appearance of a party
of the strolling rebels. They sprung eagerly from their concealment, and in a moment stood
before Don Rodrigo and his attendant, bearing on their countenances the marks of their revengeful
disposition, and the savage pleasure of meeting with a devoted prey.

"Stand!" fiercely cried one of the ruffians.

Don Rodrigo made no reply, but gallantly drew his weapon, and prepared for a resolute defence.

"What! base Christian! darest thou provoke our anger? Thy life shall pay for the temerity."

"The payment," returned Don Rodrigo, "shall not, at least, be easily extorted."

At this the Moors rushed upon the unfortunate cavalier, who though aware of the impossibility
of making any successful resistance against so many enemies, defended himself bravely and undauntedly,
while Peregil fled with equal speed and terror. The combat could not be long protracted. Don
Rodrigo fell covered with wounds and exhausted from the loss of blood, uttering a faint murmuring
complaint on his unlucky fate and disastrous love. The ferocious Moors raised his body from
the ground, and as it was the custom with those desperate men when a Christian unfortunately
fell into their power, they immediately hung it on a tree. There they left him, and shortly
after chance led them to the spot where the hapless Theodora slept, forsaken by her unprincipled
betrayer.

The flight of Roque, and the remarks she had heard from the Moors on the night she was taken,
led that unfortunate girl to believe that it was her lover who had fallen a victim to the cruelty
of those barbarians. Thus she bitterly deplored the supposed death of him who was at the very
moment accomplishing the blackest deed of ingratitude.

Meanwhile Roque, instigated by fear, and retreating on the scent of safety, shortly overtook
his master, who was not a little surprised and alarmed at the discomposure of his plans, when
he perceived his valet appear unaccompanied by Theodora.

"Where is Theodora?" demanded he hastily.

"I don't know," sullenly responded Roque; "probably in Heaven by this time."

"What mean you, villain? didst thou forget my orders?"

"Certainly not, but when I was about to put them in practice, some thousands of most desperate
Moors came just in time to prevent my laudable intentions. At first, bearing in mind the gallant
master whom I had the honor to serve, it was my determination to fight the unbelieving rascals;
but upon second thoughts, I discovered it would be more prudent to yield to necessity, and
since it was not in my power to save the young lady from falling into their hands, I considered
it laudable to disappoint the rebels of one prisoner at least, whom they might perhaps estimate
as the most important of the two; and so, instead of making use of my arms, I had recourse
to my legs, which members, on more than one occasion, I have found to be the most serviceable
part of my poor self."

Gomez Arias mused for a moment upon the narration of his attendant, as though calculating the
probable consequences of the event. Even in spite of the uneasiness which he pretended for
the fate of Theodora, he could hardly disguise from himself a species of latent satisfaction.
The event removed from his way the only impediment by which his ambitious designs could be
thwarted. Theodora, in the power of the Moors, would be even more secure than in a convent,
and Gomez Arias, without troubling himself about the probable fate to which his lovely and
too confiding victim was exposed, continued his journey to Granada, drowning the recollection
of his misconduct in the glittering prospect that was now opening before him.

The next day he met with the glorious army of Don Alonso de Aguilar, by whom he was welcomed
with a friendly and parental solicitude. He had the good fortune to act a conspicuous part
in the encounter which El Feri sustained at Gergal, and which ultimately led to the complete
overthrow of the Moors at Alhacen, and the destruction of that town. Don Lope proceeded to
Granada with the prisoners, and to offer his services to the queen upon his arrival. He soon
found in the resources of his mind specious pretexts to cover his long absence from Granada,
and his apparent dilatory conduct, notwithstanding the notification of his safety sent to him
by his future bride. But Leonor de Aguilar, though proud and lofty, was still a woman in her
affections, and willingly received the most feeble excuses, when urged as they now were by
the eloquence of a favored lover.

Thus Gomez Arias, whilst his victim was abandoned to all the horrors of her fate, whilst her
venerable father drank deep the bitter draught of affliction--Gomez Arias, the heartless perpetrator
of so much misery, now fondly rioted in the anticipated pleasures of his approaching nuptials,
and the splendid honors that awaited his union with Leonor de Aguilar.

CHAPTER IX.

    Ecco l'ora--Nel sonno immerso giace
    ----E gli occhi all'alma luce
    Non aprirà più mai? Questa mia destra
    Per farsi or sta del suo morir ministra?....

                                Alfieri.

    Est-ce une illusion soudaine
    Qui trompe mes regards surpris?
    Est-ce un songe dont l'ombre vaine
    Trouble mes timides esprits?

                                J. B. Rousseau.

The night was far advanced, and the numerous guests whom the hospitality of Don Alonso had
summoned together, began to retire from the joyous scene of revelry and feasting. The noisy
pleasure was wearing fast away, and those antique halls no longer echoed with the boisterous
mirth of so many joyous hearts; for in Aguilar's palace that night every heart was happy,--every
heart save one,--one which, desolate and solitary amidst this world of rejoicing, was a prey
to the canker sorrow that had fastened upon its core.

But now the convivial assemblage had retired, and the banqueting hall was left to the undisputed
dominion of silence and lonely repose. No longer ornamented with all the panoplies of war,
and the verdant and perfumed spoils of the garden, those glittering scenes which dazzled the
eyes and benumbed the senses, were now no longer resplendent, but wore that chilling aspect
which imparts to the mind a painful sensation of melancholy and regret. Upon the long tables
still remained the scattered fragments, remnants of the banquet. Here the sumptuous display
of the looms of Valencia were stained with the waste of racy and highly flavoured wines, and
there broken goblets and ornaments of curious workmanship were flung around in the reckless
excitement of the revellers. The lamps were out, and the few that still glimmered in the sockets
served but to heighten with their fitful and scanty light the deserted and gloomy appearance
of the scene.

Gomez Arias had retired to his chamber in a transport of delight; the most pleasing reveries
thronged upon his mind, and as he paced the silent apartment, he inwardly congratulated himself
on the near completion of all his hopes--the speedy enjoyment of his fondest wishes. In this
ferment of expectation, not a single thought obtruded to damp his ardour, or throw a partial
shadow over so bright a picture. Every thing around him contributed to his felicity,--for alas!
he did not see the sorrow that was busily destroying those charms by whose power he had been
once captivated: nor did he hear the wailings of that voice designed by nature to convey the
softest tones of innocence and delight. No, Gomez Arias had no thought for his unhappy victim--far,
far was he from surmising that she was at that moment beneath the same roof.

In this delightful mood, Don Lope threw himself upon the superb couch, to pass the night in
the luxurious vision of his approaching happiness. The silence was awful! the dull bluish glare
of a solitary lamp flung around the dim splendor of the chamber a charm of melancholy tranquillity;
the rich arabesque ornaments, the gorgeous tapestry, on which the heroes of other times stood
frowning in gloomy repose, were now partially obscured in solemn shadows that might have imparted
a sensation of superstitious awe. More faintly now gleamed the expiring light of the lamp,
which looked a cold unearthly beam, colourless and fixed, save when the chilling draft of nightly
air found its way through a crevice of the ponderous casement, and animated the languid flame
with a dull and sickly motion.

Hushed is every sound, when lo! the door gently opens, and a white figure moves slowly forwards.
It is a female form, and the lamp that still glimmered in the room, and another which the nocturnal
visitor carried in her hand, revealed a picture which might well chill the heart of the most
hardened:--it was a female in the first stage of youth, and in whose lineaments could yet be
traced the fading remains of beauty. She grasped a dagger, and she came ready steeled for crime.
Murder!--the blackest deed of human depravity, revolting to the senses even when instigated
by the revengeful passions of man, but in a young and tender female, unnatural, and full of
horror. The figure paused, and cast around a dubious and uncertain glance; her whole frame
trembled, and the weapon in her hand seemed ready to forsake its grasp. Alas! those irresolute
motions, bespoke her nature: it was woman, woman armed for crime, but woman still. With noiseless
step she advanced towards the couch; she reached the spot, and gazed with fixed earnestness
on the sleeping Gomez Arias; a thousand gloomy thoughts expand on her pallid brow; her dark
eyes gleam with the flame of revenge; her livid lips curl with the bitter smile of despair!
With difficulty she draws the oppressive breath, and violently shakes the hand that holds the
shining weapon. 'Tis a demon that directs her every motion, and imparts to that melancholy
and fading picture of youth and beauty, the darkest hues of the fierce and frenzied passions.

But the gust of rage is passed. She looks again upon the sleeper, and a deadly calm overspreads
those features but lately fraught with convulsive passion. Fixed to the ground, she now appeared
like an inanimate statue, and apparently forgetful of the dire purpose that had brought her
to the spot. Poor Theodora!--child of misfortune!--victim of that intensity of feeling which
nature seemed to have designed for thy bane and ruin; thou wert guilty but of a single error,
and is then that error so severely to be visited! That heaven which made thee pure, and beautiful,
and lovely, did it intend that thou shouldst experience all the horrors of the most malignant
fate, as a counterpoise for the possession of so may attractions; or was it only to be exemplified
as a warning to others, who, like thee, might be rich in beauty and gracefulness, of the dangers
which these gifts bring in their train!

Theodora had been guilty of one crime; if, alas! that deserves the name of crime which is the
genuine offspring of the sincerest heart. She had loved, and loved with all the enthusiasm
of devoted affection. She had been generous, and unsuspecting, and for this she was betrayed
and abandoned. Her injuries had so far wrought upon her distempered brain, that she was now
about to commit a crime, for which she would be cursed, despised, and perhaps brought to an
ignominious end.

Theodora remained a short time in a doubtful mood, and a heavenly spirit seemed to struggle
with the malignant fiend that instigated her. She held the lamp in her trembling hand over
the sleeping form of her lover, and by the sickly light she discovered his features as if inspired
by some happy dream. His breath came thick upon her face, as she bent over the couch. Smiles
were upon his lips, and a gentle motion shook his frame.

"He loves her!" groaned the despairing Theodora,--"he loves her dearly, and I am come to----"

At this moment the deep toned bell of the palace sounded the hour, and interrupted her dreadful
sentence. Solemnly the peal rung through the place like the death-knell of the perjured lover;
but he, unconscious of his impending fate, slept securely and dreamt of love and happiness.
For now his lips move, and in the broken articulation of deep but pleasing sighs, the name
of her who occupied his mind, burst from his swelling bosom. It was the name of Leonor; the
baneful sound went piercing to Theodora's heart, and roused all the furies that held dominion
there. The kindly feelings which had returned, now withered fast away. She starts with frenzy;
she grows paler, and revenge alone prevails; her bosom rises and falls with fearful emotion;
wildly her eyes roll. She resolutely grasps the dagger; the moment is arrived; one blow, and
the despoiler of her happiness would cease to exist: she fiercely raised her arm, but at the
instant all her strength withered: nerveless she dropped the weapon from her powerless hand:
no! she could not strike; for she was a woman maddened by deep injuries, but she still loved
her betrayer, and the fountain of her gentle nature again bedewed her heart. She could not
strike the man who had, without remorse, inflicted on her the pangs of a thousand deaths: she
smiles in bitterness, and hangs over the couch of her unconscious lover, her clustering hair
loosely flowing over the pillow; a piteous sigh escapes her, and, bending lower, she kisses
the lips that had betrayed her.

Gomez Arias awakes.--Is this a vision? Surely a phantom mocks his sight; the spectre of her
he had forsaken stands before him: it is indeed the image of Theodora,--but, alas! how changed!
A short time only had flown since last he saw her, and yet so altered was that form, that were
it not for a consciousness of guilt, with difficulty he would have recognised her whom he had
once idolized. Gomez Arias thrilled as he gazed on the nocturnal visitor; in her pale features
could be traced no sympathy with life; a clammy dampness bedewed her brows; a chilling apathy
sat upon her countenance. One of her hands now mechanically fell on the feverish breast of
Don Lope, and the cold, cold touch imparted a thrill of horror.

In speechless amazement Gomez Arias looked on the mournful figure, and in her glazed eye he
beheld one large tear, that, overwhelming the eye-lid, dropt heavily on his hand. It was the
tear of anguish, and the drop, as it moistened the hand of Gomez Arias, awakened in his heart
a sad remembrance of violated love and truth.

The first impression of astonishment had now subsided, and Don Lope, in a broken voice, exclaimed--"Theodora!
Heavens! is it thou?"

"Yes," she answered, gloomily, "it is the lost, the wretched Theodora, once the object of thy
adoration, and now thy curse. But tremble not; the dreadful moment is passed, and I cannot
harm thee; for though thou hast cruelly betrayed me, thou art still Gomez Arias."

"How came you hither?" demanded Don Lope, with emotion: "What was your intention?"

"Behold!" she replied, with a bitter smile, pointing to the dagger that shone on the ground;
"I came to kill thee--I came to deal out a reward but little adequate to the pangs to which
thy treachery has eternally condemned me. Oh! Lope! Lope! why didst thou not take from me this
wretched life when I was no longer dear to thy heart? I should then have been happy!--Thou
didst not--but cruelly left me to the mercy of strangers, when I had none to look upon in life
but thee."

All the feelings of an injured, yet fond woman now flowed uncontrolled over that heart where
the stormy passions had raged before. She sobbed convulsively, and a shower of tears relieved
her breaking bosom. Her weeping countenance was upon her lover's breast, and as he contemplated
her deep anguish, and the wreck of those charms which, but for him, had still shone in their
native grace, a ray of pity dawned upon his heart, callous as he was. There was something so
peculiarly distressing in the situation of the unfortunate girl, that all the glowing considerations
of ambition faded for a moment from his view, and his senses were alive only to more humane
sentiments.

Gomez Arias no longer loved Theodora; but still when he saw the extent of her misery, and felt
her warm tears inundating his bosom, pity partially supplied the place of his departed affection.
He took the passive hand of Theodora, and gently pressed it between his own--and happy--happy
was at that moment his innocent victim at this solitary mark of kindness. It was like a healing
balm to her lacerated soul; but too soon she discovered--for what, alas! can escape the acute
penetration of a loving woman--she soon discovered that pity alone suggested the consoling
token--pity which might alike have been excited by any other object of distress; and, oh! how
little does the sedate voice of pity satisfy the craving bosom of one who had such claims to
command unbounded love!

Theodora fixed her eyes on her lover, not in anger but in sorrow, and, in a thrilling and piteous
voice, she exclaimed--

"I know you no longer love me; but, Oh! heavens! have I deserved this from you, Lope? Your
vows I will not recall, for who can forget them? They are deeply engraven in my heart, and
I believed them true,--I loved you, Lope--Oh! I loved you as never woman loved before, and
how was such affection requited? Alas! had I suffered the most terrible of deaths, it had been
kind compared with thy desertion."

"Yes, Theodora," said Gomez Arias, "your reproaches are just; for well I deserve the most bitter
that language can invent; but I was compelled to that necessity by obligations so imperative,
so sacred, that they may serve to explain, and perhaps, in some measure, to extenuate the disgrace,
which my heart tells me I have so justly incurred."

"Oh!" cried Theodora, "could aught in earth oblige you to abandon one linked to you by the
dearest of ties?"

"It was the consequence of former guilt," replied Don Lope. "Theodora, I will deal frankly
by you,--nay tremble not at the intelligence which I must disclose, for it is now imperiously
required.--Curse me, Theodora," he then added with emotion, "curse the man who has accomplished
your ruin. When I courted your affections; when I sought your innocent caresses, then--then,
alas! I was the betrayer; for it was then that I deceived your unsuspecting heart."

"Oh! Heavens!" shrieked Theodora, "you never loved me then!"

"Yes, I adored you,--I loved you truly,--passionately, but it was my very love that wrought
this misery. I had no strength to reveal the terrible secret: I became selfish and ungenerous;
for when I breathed to your innocent ear the vows of everlasting affection, when you repaid
my profession with undisguised, pure, and disinterested love, even at that time, my hand, my
faith, were sacredly pledged to another."

Theodora hid her face in agony, and wrung her hands in despair, but she could not speak; her
heart was full even to breaking, and it was with a severe struggle that she faintly pronounced
"Leonor!"

"It is too true," replied Gomez Arias. "Previous to my arrival at Guadix, and my acquaintance
with you, my honor was bound to the daughter of Aguilar by indissoluble ties; we were betrothed,
and on the point of being united, when an untoward accident drove me from Granada to avoid
the vengeance of the friends of my discarded rival Don Rodrigo de Cespedes. Misguided by the
fever of passion, I forgot my sacred obligations to Leonor. You have already but too dreadfully
suffered, and a repetition of such scenes must necessarily increase the anguish of your situation."

This recital threw the hapless daughter of Monteblanco into that exquisite agony which falls
to the lot of woman alone to feel: for man, far happier in the diversity of his pursuits; less
susceptible in the refinement of sensibility; more divided in his intercourse with society,
can never experience that poignancy of feeling excited by shame and disappointed love, which
exert their baneful influence over the heart of forsaken woman!

Theodora answered not her lover; there was something so atrocious in his recital, that in spite
of the palliation which a fond woman, even when most injured, is anxious to find for the man
who has wronged her, she could not cast a shade over the glaring colours in which Don Lope's
treachery was depicted: she recoiled from him with a feeling of apprehension, and her countenance
assumed a deadly hue as she fearfully exclaimed--

"And you left me then to perish in the mountains?"

"No, Theodora," eagerly cried Gomez Arias; "no! such intentions never entered my mind; of that
at least I am innocent: it was my purpose to have placed you in a convent, and I availed myself
of your sleep to spare you the pangs of a separation. Having instructed Roque how to act, I
proceeded onwards to make the necessary arrangements for your reception in the religious asylum
the Moors surprised you; Roque fled: of the rest I am ignorant, and how I find you here is
more than imagination can conceive."

"I came," said Theodora, bitterly--"I came to be a witness of your joyful wedding: it is to
be celebrated to-morrow, and I am yet in time."

There was something evil-boding in the tone of these words, and an involuntary chill crept
over Gomez Arias as he fixed his eyes on the sufferer.

"Yes," she continued, "it is necessary that the ceremony should be attended at least by one
of your victims--the triumph of Leonor will then be more brilliant; and I," she added in a
faltering tone, "I shall also enjoy one satisfaction----"

Struck with horror, no less at these words than at the manner in which they were delivered,
Gomez Arias looked wildly on Theodora; but was unable for some time to give utterance to his
thoughts.

"My poor life," continued Theodora, "must always be an obstacle to your happiness, and it is
meet I should make the sacrifice at the foot of the altar, at the time of your union with the
choice of your heart."

Don Lope was fixed in deep abstraction; a thousand thoughts rushed across his fevered brain;
he raised himself from the couch; a copious suffusion bathed his distended brows, and every
thing bespoke the dreadful conflict of his feelings. He saw all his prospects of grandeur fall
like the baseless structure of a dream: on the point of snatching the golden treasure, he was
arrested as effectually as if by the hand of death. Perplexed with the most distracting thoughts
and boisterous passions, he for a time appeared even unconscious of the form that came to nip
his hopes in their blossom: but soon a light seemed to illumine his over-clouded imagination,
and his brow brightened as if actuated by a sudden resolution.

"Theodora," he said, with a solemn and energetic tone--"Theodora, I will no longer dissemble
with you; I have been cruel, barbarous as never man was before: yes, to-morrow I am to be united
to Spain's proudest daughter, and all that ambition and glory can offer in dazzling perspective
to the ardent imagination of man, all, all is to be fulfilled. But, alas! Theodora, I cannot
endure your distress; your tears, your anguish rend my heart, and awaken that affection which
was never completely extinguished. Dared I but hope for your forgiveness, how willingly would
I make the sacrifice of these glittering bubbles, and return to that path where alone I can
find peace and happiness. Theodora!" he continued after a pause, "can you forgive me?"

This appeal was made in a tone so subdued and pathetic, that a conviction of its sincerity
was readily admitted by the sorrowing Theodora.

"Forgive thee!" she exclaimed, in a voice thrilling with emotion, whilst a rich glow of animation
overspread those pale features: "Forgive thee, Lope! Can Theodora deny you!"

Earnestly she raised her clasped hands to Heaven, and, in the genuine abandonment of an enthusiastic
heart,

"Oh God!" she exclaimed, "thy mercies are boundless. Dear Lope!" she continued, "can I do otherwise
than forgive you!" and the tear of joy glistened in her eye. "Your returning love will repay
me for all the agonies I have undergone. And now you must forgive me--for did I not even now
come armed for your destruction! Oh, horror! I came to murder thee--in this spot--sleeping
as thou wast! But ah! pardon me; I was then a poor distracted woman, a despairing maniac, and----"

"Stay, my Theodora; reproach not thyself for an act of which I was the cause; it was a fate
that I too justly merited. But no more of that. Listen, dear girl, and follow my injunctions,
as upon their strict observance depends our future happiness. To-morrow night I will conduct
you to your poor deserted parent: together at his knees we will implore forgiveness. He will
not be invulnerable to the tears and supplications of his child; and I will forget the wild
dreams that have so long tyrannised over my kinder feelings, to fix all my thoughts upon love
and Theodora. To the happy termination of these designs, however, you must be willing to pay
attention to my instructions."

"I will do all!" emphatically cried Theodora.

"Well," returned Gomez Arias, "take heed that thou keepest silence with reference to our meeting
and resolves;--closed in thy chamber, thou must appear an uninterested stranger to whatever
may be proceeding without. It will require the utmost delicacy and ability to disclose my determination
to the proud Aguilars, when the arrangements with them are so far advanced. It is an insult
they will never tamely brook, and all my policy will be necessary to defer, at least for some
time, the terrible explosion of their indignation."

"Oh, Lope," exclaimed the fond girl, in a transport of tenderness, "I will--I will obey you
faithfully! Your slightest wish shall be to me a law."

The tide of rapturous feeling overflowed her heart. Intoxicated with happiness, she threw herself
beside the couch, fervently clasped the passive hands of her repentant lover, and tenderly
pressed them to her throbbing bosom. But those transports beat coldly responsive within the
breast of Don Lope; for pity and a sense of duty are but poor and inadequate substitutes for
the glow of passion. Still, however, recollection brought to his fancy raptures past and endearments
since flown; and memory perhaps made him cherish the present by vividly recalling the past.
But it was like the melancholy regretful pleasure which is experienced by one who revisits
the scenes of his childhood. He may indulge in the recollection of those departed joys, but
his mind is estranged by other feelings, and can no longer enjoy those pleasures which formerly
constituted his happiness.

The morning was now fast approaching, and a separation became indispensable.--Theodora made
a hasty recital of her adventures and withdrew, replete with returning joy; for she had passed
a few moments with greater delight than perhaps she could ever again experience in this world--those
blissful moments when hearts severed by destiny, or alienated by misfortune, again unite in
the genuine bonds of revived affection.

CHAPTER X.

    Oh! what a jewel is a woman excellent!

    Beaumont.

    Mais qu'aisément l'amour croit tout ce qu'il souhaite!

                                Racine.

    I humbly offer my advice (but still
    Under correction), I hope I shall not
    Incur your high displeasure.

                                Massinger.

Oh, Woman! lovely devoted Woman! Of what mysterious particles could nature have formed so strange
a being--made up, as it were, of contradictions, and yet deriving from that very inconsistency
its principal attraction. Uncertain and wavering, but amiable in that very weakness. When impelled
by affection or smarting under highly excited feelings of injury, thou art capable of the most
noble enthusiasm, or the darkest exhibitions of passion. Man, proudly arrogating to himself
a despotic sway over the higher walks of intellect, and the wild and luxuriant fields of imagination,
has left thee undisputed sovereign of the empire of the heart! He is often happy to avail himself
of that more delicate discrimination, an instinctive feeling with which nature has gifted thee,
though jealous of permitting thee to share in his power. Woman! thou wert born to grace and
smooth the rugged path of life; the advancement of one endearing sentiment is the prized object
of thy existence, and its successful termination thy reward. Debarred by nature and education
from the glittering pursuits of ambition; incapable by the delicacy of thy frame, and the softness
of thy nature, of following the rude pastimes, and participating in the laborious and dangerous
avocations of man, thy whole being is wrapt in the charm of that one feeling--love! A feeling
the most congenial to thy nature--blissful in the possession, and often but too fatal in its
effects. Man seeks thee as a friend, to treat thee like an enemy. Thou lovest--he triumphs!
and then he spurns thee because thou hast been kind. Base and degrading contradiction of human
nature!--that because man is endowed with greater powers of attack, than woman has strength
to resist, in the unequal strife, odium and shame should attach to the victim, whilst the betrayer
acquires a false lustre from his unmanly triumph!

But Woman! such is the angelic essence of thy being, that while capable of feeling with poignancy
the shafts of ingratitude and neglect, thou art still ready to pardon, and ever disposed to
forget, when repentance makes an appeal to thy compassionate and gentle heart.

Such a woman was Theodora!--After having borne the extremity of sorrows, which seemed to surpass
the strength of human forbearance, instigated by madness and despair, she had grasped the dagger
in that soft hand little adequate for a deed so dark; like the midnight assassin, she had entered
the chamber of her wronger, bent upon the commission of crime. But the sight of him who was
once so dear disarms her--she cannot accomplish the deed of guilt, and the sudden repentance
of her betrayer, like a potent charm, soon dispels the evil passions to which she was a prey.
Only a few words of comfort had Gomez Arias spoken before the voice of sorrow was hushed in
her heart. Nay, the man who had wounded her so deeply, was endeared by his very cruelty; for,
alas! Theodora felt she loved him now more tenderly than ever.

She had forgotten the former treachery of her lover, and, incapable of anticipating the possibility
of a renewal, she retired to her chamber to revel in her happiness, and await the coming of
the day in anxious expectation.

In the meantime, Gomez Arias was pacing his apartment in the utmost impatience and agitation.
Scarcely had Theodora withdrawn and the first impulse of pity subsided, than the sense of the
danger to which his ambitious projects were exposed, rushed upon his imagination, and silenced
every other consideration, save that of their accomplishment. Morning came, and still found
Don Lope measuring his chamber with an irregularity of step that well bespoke the disorder
of his feelings. Sometimes he paused and pondered upon an idea which seemed to offer him security,
and then he rejected it as unavailable. Then he muttered half broken sentences, and then again
suddenly composed himself into a saturnine tranquillity. After this he raved like a madman,
and bitterly cursed the unfortunate Theodora as an insurmountable impediment to his views;
forgetting that it was by the guilty indulgence of his own unworthy passions that he was now
entangled in the intricate perplexities which surrounded him. The ill-fated victim of his guilt,
fortunately for her short-lived happiness, heard not the ungenerous reproach. Alas! she was
fondly indulging in the supposed kindness of her lover, and longing to clasp him in her arms;
whilst the object of her endearment was at the same moment ungenerously contriving how to disengage
himself from that embrace.

His present deceit was the natural consequence of the system he had adopted. To relinquish
the brilliant prospects which presented themselves to his ambition, merely to listen to the
voice of justice, and give redress to the injured, was too great an effort, encompassed as
he was with the thousand conflicting passions that silenced the murmurs of neglected duty.
His aversion to Theodora now acquired additional strength from the dilemma in which he was
involved. He had never for a moment contemplated breaking his engagements with Leonor; he was
unwilling even to calculate upon a possibility of such an event, for his honor and pride were
both too deeply interested; yet it was of the most urgent necessity to delay the ceremony,
and how to conciliate these matters was the source of his present uneasiness. What pretext
could he assign plausible enough to justify so extraordinary a resolution?

A thousand plans suggested themselves, all of which he discarded as unavailable: he was apprehensive
that night would surprise him before any arrangements could be entered into with regard to
Theodora; and to attempt any coercive means of conveying her from the palace of Don Alonso
would be madness. At all events he must avoid any interview with Theodora whilst his conduct
might be subjected to observation; for at such a time the attention of all the household would
naturally be directed towards him.

In this perplexity he was surprised by his faithful valet, who came in the morning, according
to custom, to receive his orders. Roque entered, and was not a little surprised to observe
his master's abstraction.

"Good morrow to you, Señor," said he, making an humble bow, and advancing towards the musing
cavalier; but Don Lope made no answer whatever, nor did he take the slightest notice of his
salutation.

"There!" continued Roque. "Dios me bendiga![36] my precious master is in a most thoughtful
mood. I had always the power of rousing him from his meditations, but now they appear too powerful
for my humble abilities." "Don Lope," he proceeded in a louder key, "good morning to your honor,"
and he accompanied this Christian-like wish with as many noisy demonstrations as were compatible
with good order.

"Oh!" cried Don Lope, suddenly starting, "is it you, Roque?"

"The same, Sir, at your service," replied the obsequious valet.

"Curse thee!" returned his master, "why makest thou that noise?"

"Thank you, dear master, that is a most amiable morning salutation; it augurs well too on a
wedding-day."

"Pshaw! my wedding-day!" cried Gomez Arias, impatiently; and he again relapsed into his train
of reflection.

"Eh?" ejaculated Roque; "I wonder what is in the wind now; all is not right, I perceive. Señor
Don Lope, may I so far intrude on your most important meditations, as to demand what has sent
your wits a wool-gathering so early in the morning: surely your dreams have not been unpleasant--for
my part I cannot bear terrible dreams; they are ominous, particularly on the eve of a wedding----"

"Hold thy foolish chatter," interrupted Gomez Arias; "it is not a dream that troubles me, but
a reality, a most mortifying reality. Roque," he then added in a more familiar tone, "I am
involved in a labyrinth from which it will be no easy matter to extricate myself."

"I am very sorry, good Señor; for my part, I can very well conceive that a prudent man has
cogent reasons to ponder and reflect more than a philosopher, when he is on the point of being
entangled in the labyrinth of matrimony. Yes, Sir, I allow it is a most dangerous experiment:
it is a voyage menaced with all sorts of foul weather, and surrounded with shoals, quicksands,
and rocks, so that----"

"Roque, a truce with your cursed metaphors," cried Don Lope, "or I'll blow such a storm about
thine ears, as to surpass all description."

"Sir," replied the valet, "if you dislike storms, I have not the smallest affection for them,
so I'll even hold my tongue."

"Roque," said Gomez Arias after a moment's silence, "I am threatened with the loss of the rich
treasure which I have so long and so arduously toiled to obtain."

"Treasure, Señor!" cried the wondering valet. "Cuerpo de Cristo! Treasure! Be pleased to explain:
I was not aware that you expected a rich treasure; from what quarter is it to come? My dear,
dear master, I suppose you will then pay me all my vails."

"Here's an infamous sinner!" exclaimed Gomez Arias; "an unconscionable dog, to be talking of
money and filthy wages when his master is labouring under the most perplexing dilemma in which
ever mortal man was placed. Roque, I do not see what prevents me from shaking thy rascally
form to atoms."

Don Lope, in his anger, made a step in advance, while Roque prudently made one in retrograde.

"Don Lope," cried the retreating valet, "as I hope for salvation, it is not my wish to offend:
you appear in a terrible passion, and there is certainly some mystery at the bottom: something
preys upon your mind, and if you would make me acquainted with it, perhaps I might devise a
remedy for the evil."

"You cannot, Roque," returned his master, somewhat composed; "you cannot contrive to defer
this wedding!"

