Accusatory words are easily spoken, and there is often a disposition to condemn, without calculating
the compelling motives which govern human actions, or the height of place which has given to
surrounding objects a coloring and figure not to be measured by the ordinary rules of ethics.
Many a man who cannot bear a little brief authority without abusing it, who lords it over a
few dependants with insolent and arbitrary rule, whose temper makes everybody uncomfortable
within the limited sphere of his government and whose petty tyranny turns his own home into
a despotic empire, can pronounce a sweeping doom against one who was clothed with irresponsible
power, who seemed elevated above the accidents of humanity, whose audience-chamber was thronged
by princes, whose words were as the breath of life, and who dealt out kingdoms to his kindred
like the portions of a family inheritance. Let censure, then, be tempered with charity, nor
be lightly bestowed on him who will continue to fill a space in the annals of the world when
the present shall be merged in that shadowy realm where fact becomes mingled with fable, and
the reality, dimmed by distance, shall be so transfigured by poetry and romance, that it may
even be doubted whether he ever lived.

Seventeen years after the period which I have attempted to illustrate by a few incidents, I
stood by his grave at St. Helena. I was returning from a long residence in the East, and, having
doubled the stormy Cape of Good Hope, looked forward with no little interest to a short repose
at the halting-place between India and Europe. But when I saw its blue mass heaving from the
ocean, the usual excitement attendant on the cry of "Land!" was lost in the absorbing feeling,
that there Napoleon Bonaparte died and was buried. The lonely rock rose in solitary barrenness,
a bleak and mournful monument of some rude caprice of Nature, which has thrown it out to stand
in cheerless desolation amidst the broad waters of the Atlantic.

There was nothing in or about the house to remind one of its late occupant. It was used as
a granary. The apartments were filled with straw; a machine for threshing or winnowing was
in the parlor; and the room where he died was now converted into a stable, a horse standing
where his bed had been. The position was naked and comfortless, being on the summit of a hill,
perpetually swept by the trade-winds, which suffered no living thing to stand, except a few
straggling, bare, shadeless trees, which contributed to the disconsolate character of the landscape.
The grave was in a quiet little valley. It was covered by three plain slabs of stone, closely
surrounded by an iron railing; a low wooden paling extended a small distance around; and the
whole was overhung by three decaying willows. The appearance of the place was plain and appropriate.
Nothing was wanting to its unadorned and affecting simplicity. Ornament could not have increased
its beauty, nor inscription have added to its solemnity.

The mighty conqueror slept in the territory of his most inveterate foes; but the path to his
tomb was reverently trodden, and those who had stood opposed to him in life forgot that there
had been enmity between them. Death had extinguished hostility; and the pilgrims who visited
his resting-place spoke kindly of his memory, and, hoarding some little token, bore it to their
distant homes to be prized by their posterity as having been gathered at his grave.

The dome of the Invalides now rises over his remains; his statue again caps the column that
commemorates his exploits; and one of his name, advanced by the sole magic of his glory, controls,
with arbitrary will and singular ability, the destinies, not of France only, but of Europe.

The nations which united for his overthrow now humbly bow before the family they solemnly pledged
themselves should never again taste power, and, with ill-concealed distrust and anxiety, deprecate
a resentment that has not been weakened by years nor forgotten in alliances.

Not to them alone has Time hastened to bring that retributive justice which falls alike on
empires and individuals. The son of "The Man" moulders in an Austrian tomb, leaving no trace
that he has lived; while the lineal descendant of the obscure Creole, of the deposed empress,
of the divorced wife, sits on the throne of Clovis and Charlemagne, of Capet and Bonaparte.
Within the brief space of one generation, within the limit of one man's memory, vengeance has
revolved full circle; and while the sleepless Nemesis points with unresting finger to the barren
rock and the insulted captive, she turns with meaning smile to the borders of the Seine, where
mausoleum and palace stand in significant proximity,--the one covering the dust of the first
empire, the other the home of the triumphant grandson of Josephine.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPIGRAM ON J.M.

  Said Fortune to a common spit,
    "Your rust and grease I'll rid ye on,
  And make ye in a twinkling fit
     For Ireland's Sword of Gideon!"

  In vain! what Nature meant for base
     All chance for good refuses;
  M. gave one gleam, then turned apace
     To dirtiest kitchen uses.

BEETHOVEN: HIS CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH.

(From Original Sources.)

There is upon record a remark of Mozart--probably the greatest musical genius that ever lived--to
this effect: that, if few had equalled him in his art, few had studied it with such persevering
labor and such unremitting zeal. Every man who has attained high preëminence in Science, Literature,
or Art, would confess the same. At all events, the greatest musical composers--Bach, Handel,
Haydn, Gluck--are proofs that no degree of genius and natural aptitude for their art is sufficient
without long-continued effort and exhaustive study of the best models of composition. And this
is the moral to be drawn from Beethoven's early life.

"Voila Bonn! C'est une petite perle!" said the admiring Frenchwoman, as the Cologne steamboat
rounded the point below the town, and she caught the first fair view of its bustling landing-places,
its old wall, its quaint gables, and its antique cathedral spires. A pearl among the smaller
German cities it is,--with most irregular streets, always neat and cleanly, noble historic
and literary associations, jovial student-life, pleasant walks to the neighboring hills, delightful
excursions to the Siebengebirge and Ahrthal,--reposing peacefully upon the left bank of the
"green and rushing Rhine." Six hundred years ago, the Archbishop-Electors of Cologne, defeated
in their long quarrel with the people of the city of perfumery, established their court at
Bonn, and made it thenceforth the political capital of the Electorate. Having both the civil
and ecclesiastical revenues at their command, the last Electors were able to sustain courts
which vied in splendor with those of princes of far greater political power and pretensions.
They could say, with the Preacher of old, "We builded us houses; we made us gardens and orchards,
and planted trees in them of all manner of fruits"; for the huge palace, now the seat of the
Frederick-William University, and Clemensruhe, now the College of Natural History, were erected
by them early in the last century. Music they cherished with especial care: it gave splendor
to the celebration of high mass in chapel or cathedral; it afforded an innocent and refined
recreation, in the theatre and concert-room, to the Electors and their guests.

In the list of singers and musicians in the employ of Clemens Augustus, as printed in the Electoral
Calendar for the years 1759-60, appears the name, "Ludwig van Beethoven, Bassist." We know
little of him, and it is but a very probable conjecture that he was a native of Maestricht,
in Holland. That he was more than an ordinary singer is proved by the position he held in the
Chapel, and by the applause which he received for his performances as primo basso in certain
of Mosigny's operas. He was, moreover, a good musician; for he had produced operas of his own
composition, with fair success, and, upon the accession of Maximilian Frederick to the Electorate
in 1761, he was raised to the position of Kapellmeister. He was already well advanced in life;
for the same record bears the name of his son Johann, a tenor singer. He died in 1773, and
was long afterward described by one who remembered him, as a short, stout-built man, with exceedingly
lively eyes, who used to walk with great dignity to and from his dwelling in the Bonngasse,
clad in the fashionable red cloak of the time. Thus, too, he was quite magnificently depicted
by the court painter, Radoux, wearing a tasselled cap, and holding a sheet of music-paper in
his hand. His wife--the Frau Kapellmeisterinn--born Josepha Poll--was not a helpmeet for him,
being addicted to strong drink, and therefore, during her last years, placed in a convent in
Cologne.

The Bonngasse, which runs Rhineward from the lower extremity of the Marktplatz, is, as the
epithet gasse implies, not one of the principal streets of Bonn. Nor is it one of great length,
notwithstanding the numbers upon its house-fronts range so high,--for the houses of the town
are numbered in a single series, and not street by street. In 1770, the centre of the Bonngasse
was also a central point for the music and musicians of Bonn. Kapellmeister Beethoven dwelt
in No. 386, and the next house was the abode of the Ries family. The father was one of the
Elector's chamber musicians; and his son Franz, a youth of fifteen, was already a member of
the orchestra, and by his skill upon the violin gave promise of his future excellence. Thirty
years afterward, his son became the pupil of the Beethoven in Vienna.

In No. 515, which is nearly opposite the house of Ries, lived the Salomons. Two of the sisters
were singers in the Court Theatre, and the brother, Johann Peter, was a distinguished violinist.
At a later period he emigrated to London, gained great applause as a virtuoso, established
the concerts in which Haydn appeared as composer and director, and was one of the founders
of the celebrated London Philharmonic Society.

It is common in Bonn to build two houses, one behind the other, upon the same piece of ground,
leaving a small court between them,--access to that in the rear being obtained through the
one which fronts upon the street. This was the case where the Salomons dwelt, and to the rear
house, in November, 1767, Johann van Beethoven brought his newly married wife, Helena Keverich,
of Coblentz, widow of Nicolas Laym, a former valet of the Elector.

It is near the close of 1770. Helena has experienced "the pleasing punishment that women bear,"
but "remembereth no more the anguish for joy that a man is born into the world." Her joy is
the greater, because last year, in April, she buried, in less than a week after his birth,
her first-born, Ludwig Maria,--as the name still stands upon the baptismal records of the parish
of St. Remigius, with the names of Kapellmeister Beethoven, and the next-door neighbor, Frau
Loher, as sponsors. This second-born is a strong, healthy child, and his baptism is recorded
in the same parish-book, Dec. 17, 1770,--the day of, possibly the day after, his birth,--by
the name of Ludwig. The Kapellmeister is again godfather, but Frau Gertrude Müller, née Baum,
next door on the other side, is the godmother. The Beethovens had neither kith nor kin in Bonn;
the families Ries and Salomon, their intimate friends, were Israelites; hence the appearance
of the neighbors, Frauen Loher and Müller, at the ceremony of baptism;--a strong corroborative
evidence, that No. 515, Bonngasse, was the actual birth-place of Beethoven.

The child grew apace, and in manhood his earliest and proudest recollections, save of his mother,
were of the love and affection lavished upon him, the only grandchild, by the Kapellmeister.
He had just completed his third year when the old man died, and the bright sun which had shone
upon his infancy, and left an ineffaceable impression upon the child's memory, was obscured.
Johann van Beethoven had inherited his mother's failing, and its effects were soon visible
in the poverty of the family. He left the Bonngasse for quarters in that house in the Rheingasse,
near the upper steamboat-landing, which now erroneously bears the inscription, Ludwig van Beethovens
Geburtshaus.

His small inheritance was soon squandered; his salary as singer was small, and at length even
the portrait of his father went to the pawnbroker. In the April succeeding the Kapellmeister's
death, the expenses of Johann's family were increased by the birth of another son,--Caspar
Anton Carl; and to this event Dr. Wegeler attributes the unrelenting perseverance of the father
in keeping little Ludwig from this time to his daily lessons upon the piano-forte. Both Wegeler
and Burgomaster Windeck of Bonn, sixty years afterward, remembered how, as boys, visiting a
playmate in another house across the small court, they often "saw little Louis, his labors
and sorrows." Cecilia Fischer, too, a playmate of Beethoven in his early childhood, and living
in the same house in her old age, "still saw the little boy standing upon a low footstool and
practising his father's lessons," in tears.

What indications, if any, the child had given of remarkable musical genius, we do not know,--not
one of the many anecdotes bearing upon this point having any trustworthy foundation in fact.
Probably the father discovered in him that which awakened the hope of some time rivalling the
then recent career of Leopold Mozart with little Wolfgang, or at least saw reason to expect
as much success with his son as had rewarded the efforts of his neighbor Ries with his Franz;
at all events, we have the testimony of Beethoven himself, that "already in his fourth year
music became his principal employment,"--and this it continued to be to the end. Yet, as he
grew older, his education in other respects was not neglected. He passed through the usual
course of boys of his time, not destined for the universities, in the public schools of the
city, even to the acquiring of some knowledge of Latin. The French language was, as it still
is, a necessity to every person of the Rhine provinces above the rank of peasant; and Beethoven
became able to converse in it with reasonable fluency, even after years of disuse and almost
total loss of hearing. It has also been stated that he knew enough of English to read it; but
this is more than doubtful. In fact, as a schoolboy, he made the usual progress,--no more, no less.

In music it was otherwise. The child Mozart seems alone to have equalled or surpassed the child
Beethoven. Ludwig soon exhausted his father's musical resources, and became the pupil of Pfeiffer,
chorist in the Electoral Orchestra, a genial and kind-hearted man, and so good a musician as
afterward to be appointed band-master to a Bavarian regiment. Beethoven always held him in
grateful and affectionate remembrance, and in the days of his prosperity in Vienna sent him
pecuniary aid. His next teacher was Van der Eder, court organist,--a proof that the boy's progress
was very rapid, as this must have been the highest school that Bonn could offer. With this
master he studied the organ. When Van der Eder retired from office, his successor, Christian
Gottlob Neefe, succeeded him also as instructor of his remarkable pupil.

Wegeler and Schindler, writing several years after the great composer's death, state, that,
of these three instructors, he considered himself most indebted to Pfeiffer, declaring that
he had profited little or nothing by his studies with Neefe, of whose severe criticisms upon
his boyish efforts in composition he complained. These statements have hitherto been unquestioned.
Without doubting the veracity of the two authors, it may well be asked, whether the great master
may not have relied too much upon the impressions received in childhood, and thus unwittingly
have done injustice to Neefe. The appointment of that musician as organist to the Electoral
Court bears date February 15, 1781, when Ludwig had but just completed his tenth year, and
the sixth year of his musical studies. These six years had been divided between three different
instructors,--his father, Pfeiffer, and Van der Eder; and during the last part of the time,
music could have been but the extra study of a schoolboy. That the two or three years, during
which at the most he was a pupil of Pfeiffer, and that, too, when he was but six or eight years
of age, were of more value to him in his artistic development than the years from the age of
ten onward, during which he studied with Neefe, certainly seems an absurd idea. That the chorist
may have laid a foundation for his future remarkable execution, and have fostered and developed
his love for music, is very probable; but that the great Beethoven's marvellous powers in higher
spheres of the art were in any great degree owing to him, we cannot credit. Happily, we have
some data for forming a judgment upon this point, unknown both to Wegeler and Schindler, when
they wrote.

Neefe was, if not a man of genius, of very respectable talents, a learned and accomplished
organist and composer, as a violinist respectable, even in a corps which included Reicha, Romberg,
Ries. He had been reared in the severe Saxon school of the Bachs, and before coming to Bonn
had had much experience as music director of an operatic company. He knew the value of the
maxim, Festina lente, and was wise enough to understand, that no lofty and enduring structure
can be reared, unless the foundations are broad and deep,--that sound and exhaustive study
of canon, fugue, and counterpoint is as necessary to the highest development of musical genius
as mathematics, philosophy, and logic are to that of the scientific and literary man. He at
once saw and appreciated the marvellous powers of Johann van Beethoven's son, and adopted a
plan with him, whose aim was, not to make him a mere youthful prodigy, but a great musician
and composer in manhood. That, with this end in view, he should have criticized the boy's crude
compositions with some severity was perfectly natural; equally so that the petted and bepraised
boy should have felt these criticisms keenly. But the severity of the master was no more than
a necessary counterpoise to the injudicious praise of others. That Beethoven, however he may
have spoken of Neefe to Wegeler and Schindler, did at times have a due consciousness of his
obligations to his old master, is proved by a letter which he wrote to him from Vienna, during
the first transports of joy and delight at finding himself the object of universal wonder and
commendation in the musical circles of the great capital. He thanks Neefe for the counsels
which had guided him in his studies, and adds, "Should I ever become a great man, it will in
part be owing to you."

The following passage from an account of the virtuosos in the service of the Elector at Bonn,
written in 1782, when Beethoven had been with Neefe but little more than a year, and which
we unhesitatingly, attribute to the pen of Neefe himself, will give an idea of the course of
instruction adopted by the master, and his hopes and expectations for the future of his pupil.
It is, moreover, interesting, as being the first public notice of him who for half a century
has exercised more pens than any other artist. The writer closes his list of musicians and
singers thus:--

"Louis van Beethoven, son of the above-named tenorist, a boy of eleven years, and of most promising
talents. He plays the piano-forte with great skill and power, reads exceedingly well at sight,
and, to say all in a word, plays nearly the whole of Sebastian Bach's 'Wohltemperirtes Klavier,'
placed in his hands by Herr Neefe. Whoever is acquainted with this collection of preludes and
fugues in every key (which one can almost call the non plus ultra of music) knows well what
this implies. Herr Neefe has also, so far as his other duties allowed, given him some instruction
in thorough-bass. At present he is exercising him in composition, and for his encouragement
has caused nine variations composed by him for the piano-forte upon a march[A] to be engraved
at Mannheim. This young genius certainly deserves such assistance as will enable him to travel.
He will assuredly become a second Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, should he continue as he has begun.

[Footnote A: The variations upon a march by Dressler.]

  "'Wem er geneigt, dem sendet der Vater der
    Menschen und Götter
  Seinen Adler herab, trägt ihn zu himmlischen
    Höh'n und welches
  Haupt ihm gefällt um das flicht er mit
    liebenden Händen den Lorbeer.'
  Schiller."

In the mere grammar of musical composition the pupil required little of his master. We have
Beethoven's own words to prove this, scrawled at the end of the thorough-bass exercises, afterward
performed, when studying with Albrechtsberger. "Dear friends," he writes, "I have taken all
this trouble, simply to be able to figure my basses correctly, and some time, perhaps, to instruct
others. As to errors, I hardly needed to learn this for my own sake. From my childhood I have
had so fine a musical sense, that I wrote correctly without knowing that it must be so, or
could be otherwise."

Neefe's object, therefore,--as was Haydn's at a subsequent period,--was to give his pupil that
mastery of musical form and of his instrument, which should enable him at once to perceive
the value of a musical idea and its most appropriate treatment. The result was, that the tones
of his piano-forte became to the youth a language in which his highest, deepest, subtilest
musical ideas were expressed by his fingers as instantaneously and with as little thought of
the mere style and manner of their expression as are the intellectual ideas of the thoroughly
trained rhetorician in words.

The good effect of the course pursued by Neefe with his pupil is visible in the next published
production--save a song or two--of the boy;--the

"Three Sonatas for the Piano-forte, composed and dedicated to the most Reverend Archbishop
and Elector of Cologne, Maximilian Frederick, my most gracious Lord, by LUDWIG VAN BEETHOVEN,
Aged eleven years."

We cannot resist the temptation to add the comically bombastic Dedication of these Sonatas
to the Elector, which may very possibly have been written by Neefe, who loved to see himself
in print.

"DEDICATION

"MOST EXALTED!

"Already in my fourth year Music began to be the principal employment of my youth. Thus early
acquainted with the Lovely Muse, who tuned my soul to pure harmonies, she won my love, and,
as I oft have felt, gave me hers in return. I have now completed my eleventh year; and my Muse,
in the hours consecrated to her, oft whispers to me, 'Try for once, and write down the harmonies
in thy soul!'--'Eleven years!' thought I,--'and how should I carry the dignity of authorship?
What would men in the art say?'--My timidity had nearly conquered. But my Muse willed it:--I
obeyed and wrote.

"And now dare I, Most Illustrious! venture to lay the first fruits of my youthful labors at
the steps of Thy throne? And dare I hope that Thou wilt deign to cast upon them the mild, paternal
glance of Thy cheering approbation? Oh, yes! for Science and Art have ever found in Thee a
wise patron and a magnanimous promoter, and germinating talent its prosperity under Thy kind,
paternal care.

"Filled with this animating trust, I venture to draw near to Thee with these youthful efforts.
Accept them as a pure offering of childish reverence, and look down graciously, Most Exalted!
upon them and their young author,

"LUDWIG VAN BEETHOVEN."

"These Sonatas," says a most competent critic,[B] "for a boy's work, are, indeed, remarkable.
They are bonâ fide compositions. There is no vagueness about them.... He has ideas positive
and well pronounced, and he proceeds to develope them in a manner at once spontaneous and logical....
Verily the boy possessed the vital secret of the Sonata form; he had seized its organic principle."

[Footnote B: J.S. Dwight.]

Ludwig has become an author! His talents are known and appreciated everywhere in Bonn. He is
the pet of the musical circle in which he moves,--in danger of being spoiled. Yet now, when
the character is forming, and those habits, feelings, tastes are becoming developed and fixed,
which are to go with him through life, he can look to his father neither for example nor counsel.
He idolizes his mother; but she is oppressed with the cares of a family, suffering through
the improvidence and bad habits of its head, and though she had been otherwise situated, the
widow of Laym, the Elector's valet, could hardly be the proper person to fit the young artist
for future intercourse with the higher ranks of society.

In the large, handsome brick house still standing opposite the minster in Bonn, on the east
side of the public square, where now stands the statue of Beethoven, dwelt the widow and children
of Hofrath von Breuning. Easy in their circumstances, highly educated, of literary habits,
and familiar with polite life, the family was among the first in the city. The four children
were not far from Beethoven's age; Eleonore, the daughter, and Lenz, the third son, were young
enough to become his pupils. In this family it was Ludwig's good fortune to become a favorite,
and "here," says Wegeler, who afterward married Eleonore, "he made his first acquaintance with
German literature, especially with the poets, and here first had opportunity to gain the cultivation
necessary for social life."

He was soon treated by the Von Breunings as a son and brother, passing not only most of his
days, but many of his nights, at their house, and sometimes spending his vacations with them
at their country-seat in Kerpen,--a small town on the great road from Cologne to Aix la Chapelle.
With them he felt free and unrestrained, and everything tended at the same time to his happiness
and his intellectual development. Nor was music neglected. The members of the family were all
musical, and Stephen, the eldest son, sometimes played in the Electoral Orchestra.

No person possessed so strong an influence upon the oft-times stubborn and wilful boy as the
Frau von Breuning. She best knew how to bring him back to the performance of his duty, when
neglectful of his pupils; and when she, with gentle force, had made him cross the square to
the house of the Austrian ambassador, Count Westfall, to give the promised lesson, and saw
him, after hesitating for a time at the door, suddenly fly back, unable to overcome his dislike
to lesson-giving, she would bear patiently with him, merely shrugging her shoulders and remarking,
"To-day he has his raptus again!" The poverty at home and his love for his mother alone enabled
him ever to master this aversion.

To the Breunings, then, we are indebted for that love of Plutarch, Homer, Shakspeare, Goethe,
and whatever gives us noble pictures of that greatness of character which we term "heroic,"
that enabled the future composer to stir up within us all the finest and noblest emotions,
as with the wand of a magician. The boy had an inborn love of the beautiful, the tender, the
majestic, the sublime, in nature, in art, and in literature,--together with a strong sense
of the humorous and even comic. With the Breunings all these qualities were cultivated and
in the right direction. To them the musical world owes a vast debt of gratitude.

Beethoven was no exception to the rule, that only a great man can be a great artist. True,
in his later years his correspondence shows at times an ignorance of the rules of grammar and
orthography; but it also proves, what may be determined from a thousand other indications,
that he was a deep thinker, and that he had a mind of no small degree of cultivation, as it
certainly was one of great intellectual power. Had he devoted his life to any other profession
than music,--to law, theology, science, or letters,--he would have attained high eminence,
and enrolled himself among the great.

But we have anticipated a little, and now turn back to an event which occurred soon after he
had completed his thirteenth year, and which proved in its consequences of the highest moment
to him,--the death of the Elector, which took place on the 15th of April, 1784. He was succeeded
by Maximilian Francis, Bishop of Münster, Grand Master of the Teutonic Order, a son of the
Emperor Francis and Maria Theresa of Austria.

A word upon this family of imperial musicians may, perhaps, be pardoned. It was Charles VI.,
the father of Maria Theresa, a composer of canons and music for the harpsichord, who, upon
being complimented by his Kapellmeister as being well able to officiate as a music-director,
dryly observed, "Upon the whole, however, I like my present position better!" His daughter
sang an air upon the stage of the Court Theatre in her fifth year; and in 1739, just before
her accession to the imperial dignity, being in Florence, she sang a duet with Senesino--of
Handelian memory--with such grace and splendor of voice, that the tears rolled down the old
man's cheeks. In all her wars and amid all the cares of state, Maria Theresa never ceased to
cherish music. Her children were put under the best instructors, and made thorough musicians;--Joseph,
whom Mozart so loved, though the victim of his shabby treatment; Maria Antoinette, the patron
of Gluck and the head of his party in Paris; Max Franz, with whom we now have to do,--and so forth.

Upon learning the death of Max Frederick, his successor hastened to Bonn to assume the Archiepiscopal
and Electoral dignities, with which he was formally invested in the spring of 1785. In the
train of the new Elector, who was still in the prime of life, was the Austrian Count Waldstein,
his favorite and constant companion. Waldstein, like his master, was more than an amateur,--he
was a fine practical musician. The promising pupil of Neefe was soon brought to his notice,
and his talents and attainments excited in him an extraordinary interest. Coming from Vienna,
where Mozart and Haydn were in the full tide of their success, where Gluck's operas were heard
with rapture, and where in the second rank of musicians and composers were such names as Salieri,
Righini, Anfossi, and Martini, Waldstein could well judge of the promise of the boy. He foresaw
at once his future greatness, and gave him his favor and protection. He, in some degree, at
least, relieved him from the dry rules of Neefe, and taught him the art of varying a theme
extempore and carrying it out to its highest development. He had patience and forbearance with
the boy's failings and foibles, and, to relieve his necessities, gave him money, sometimes
as gifts of his own, sometimes as gratifications from the Elector.

