Every log has the initial or mark of the owner chopped deep into the wood to identify it. Then,
when the ice breaks up, the logs are sent down the brooks to the rivers and through the rivers
to the lakes. The logging camps are disbanded, the loggers return to their homes, and the river-drivers
alone are left to begin their duties.

The river-drivers are the men who travel with the logs from the beginning of their journey
till they are surrendered to the saw-mills. Each wears shoes the soles of which are thickly
studded with iron brads an inch long; and each carries a long pole called a "pick-pole," which
has a strong sharp-pointed iron spike in the end. This they drive into the wood, and it supports
and steadies them as they spring from log to log.

Their first duty is to collect "the drive." The logs which form "the drive" are packed together
and held in place by a chain of guard-logs which stretches entirely around the drive, forming
what is called "the boom." The guard-logs are chained together at the ends about two feet apart.
The guard is always much larger than the boom of logs, so that the shape of the boom may be
changed for wide or narrow waters.

At the head of each boom is a raft which supports two large windlasses, each of which works
an anchor. On this head-work about thirty river-drivers take up their position to direct the
course of the boom.

To change its position or shape, ten of the drivers spring into a boat or bateau; one takes
a paddle at the bow; eight take oars; and one, at the stern, holds the anchor. They row with
quick strokes toward the spot where the anchor is to be dropped, the cable all the time unwinding
from the windlass.

"Let go!" shouts the foreman.

Splash! goes the anchor overboard.

The boat then darts back to the head-works. Out spring the men to help turn the windlass to
wind the cable in. They sing as they work, and the windlass creaks a monotonous accompaniment
as "Meet me by moonlight," or the popular "Away over yonder," comes floating over the rippling
water.

Meanwhile another bateau has been out with another anchor; and as both windlasses turn, the
boom swings toward the anchorage, and thus is so much further on its way.

Though the men sing as they work, and make the best of their mishaps with jests and laughter,
they often carry homesick hearts. In cold and stormy weather their hardships are great, an
involuntary bath in the icy water being an event of frequent occurrence. Also their work demands
a constant supply of strength which is very trying; frequently a head wind will drive them
back from a position which it has taken several days to gain, and all the toil of fresh anchorages
must be repeated.

The most dangerous part of the work is "sluicing" the logs. When the boom reaches the run which
connects the lake or river with the dam through the sluice of which the logs must pass, the
chain of guard-logs is detached, and fastened in lines along both sides of the run, and the
rafts are drawn off to one side and anchored to trees. The river-drivers, armed with their
pick-poles, are then stationed along the run, on the dam, wherever they may be needed.

The liberated logs now come sailing along, their speed quickening as they near the sluice.
When they reach it they dart through, their dull, rapid, continuous thud mingling with the
roar of the water. How they shoot the sluice! log after log--two, six, a dozen together--pitching,
tossing, struggling, leaping end over end; finally submitting to destiny and sailing serenely
down the river toward another lake.

Meanwhile the river-drivers with their long poles and quick movements, looking not unlike a
band of savages, have enough to do, with steady feet, and eyes on the alert. For of all the
vast array of logs--and I once saw twenty-four thousand in one drive--not one goes through
the sluice but is guided on to it by one or more of the drivers. They often ride standing on
the floating logs, conducting this, pushing that, hurrying another, straightening, turning
and guiding; and just before the log on which a driver stands reaches the sluice, he springs
to another.

Woe to him if his foot should slip, or his leap fail! He would be crushed among the logs in
the sluice, or dashed among the rocks in the seething water.

After all the logs are safely sluiced, the chains of the guards are slipped, the rafts are
broken up, and these, windlasses and all, follow the logs. Then the boats are put through the
sluice. Sometimes, when the dam is high, some of the river-drivers go through in the boats--a
dangerous practice, this; for often the bateaux have gone under water, entirely out of sight,
to come up below the falls, and more than once have lives been lost in this foolhardy feat.

A boom generally passes from three to six dams, and sometimes takes four months to reach the mills.

Occasionally the logs become jammed in the rivers, and must wait for more water; if this can
be supplied from a lake above, the difficulty is easily remedied.

In the spring of 1880, a jam occurred at Mexico in Maine. The logs were piled forty feet above
the water and covered an extent of area as large as an ordinary village. This great jam attracted
visitors from all parts of the country until the spring freshets of the next year could supply
the river with water sufficient to loose them and bear them on their way.

-----

At the present time, July, 1880, the jam is still there. I saw the driving and sluicing as
I have described it, in May, 1880. It was very interesting.--S. B. C. S.