LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE

OF

POPULAR LITERATURE AND SCIENCE.

SEPTEMBER, 1880.

He had been giving us the itinerary for our "cross-country" journey, by way of the Lakes, to
Ekoniah Scrub. How many of all the Florida tourists know where that is? I wonder. Or even what
it is--the strange amphibious land which goes on from year to year "developing"--the solid
ground into marshy "parrairas," the prairies into lakes, bright, sparkling sapphires which
Nature is threading, one by one, year by year, upon her emerald chaplet of forest borderland?
How many of them all have guessed that close at hand, hidden away amid the shadows of the scrub-oaks,
lies her laboratory, where any day they may steal in upon her at her work and catch a world
a-making?

There are three individuals who know a little more about it now than they did a few weeks since--three,
or shall we not rather say four? For who shall say that Barney gained less from the excursion
than the Artist, the Scribe and the Small Boy who were his fellow-travellers? That Barney became
a party to the expedition in the character, so to speak, of a lay-brother, expected to perform
the servile labor of the establishment while his superiors were worshipping at Nature's shrines,
in nowise detracted from his improvement of the bright spring holiday. It was, indeed, upon
the Small Boy who beat the mule, rather than upon the mule that drew the wagon, that the fatigues
of the expedition fell. "He just glimpses around at me with his old eyeball," says the Small
Boy, exasperate, throwing away his broken cudgel, "and that's all the good it does."

We knew nothing more of Ekoniah when we set out upon our journey than that it was the old home
of an Indian tribe in the long-ago days before primeval forest had given place to the second
growth of "scrub," and that it was a region unknown to the Northern tourist. It lies to the
south-west of Magnolia, our point of departure on the St. John's River, but at first our route
lay westerly, that it might include the lake-country of the Ridge.

"It's a pretty kentry," said a friendly "Cracker," of whom, despite the county clerk's itinerary,
we were fain to ask the way within two hours after starting--"a right pretty kentry, but it's
all alike. You'll be tired of it afore you're done gone halfway."

Is he blind, our friend the Cracker? Already, in the very outset of our journey, we have beheld
such varied beauties as have steeped our souls in joy. After weeks of rainless weather the
morning had been showery, and on our setting forth at noon we had found the world new washed
and decked for our coming. Birds were singing, rainbows glancing, in quivering, water-laden
trees; flowers were shimmering in the sunshine; the young growth was springing up glorious
from the blackness of desolating winter fires. Such tender tones of pink and gray! such fiery-hearted
reds and browns and olive-greens! such misty vagueness in the shadows! such brilliance in the
sunlight that melted through the openings of the woods! "All alike," indeed! No "accidents"
of rock or hill are here, but oh the grandeur of those far-sweeping curves of undulating surface!
the mystery of those endless aisles of solemn-whispering pines! the glory of color, intense
and fiery, which breathes into every object a throbbing, living soul!

For hours we journeyed through the forest, always in the centre of a vast circle of scattered
pines, upon the outer edge of which the trees grew dense and dark, stretching away into infinity.
Our road wandered in and out among the prostrate victims of many a summer tempest: now we were
winding around dark "bays" of sweet-gum and magnolia; now skirting circular ponds of delicate
young cypress; now crossing narrow "branches" sunk deep in impenetrable "hummocks" of close-crowded
oak and ash and maple, thick-matted with vines and undergrowth; now pausing to gather orchis
and pitcher-plants and sun-kisses and andromeda; now fording the broad bend of Peter's Creek
where it flows, sapphire in the sunshine, out from the moss-draped live-oaks between high banks
of red and yellow clays and soft gray sand, to lose itself in a tangle of flowering shrubs;
now losing and finding our way among the intricate cross-roads that lead by Bradley's Creek
and Darbin Savage's tramway and the "new-blazed road" of the county clerk's itinerary. Suddenly
the sky grew dark: thunder began to roll, and--were we in the right road? It seemed suspiciously
well travelled, for now we called to mind that Middleburg was nigh at hand, and thither we
had been warned not to go.

There was a house in the distance, the second we had seen since leaving the "settlements" near
the river. And there we learned that we were right and wrong: it was the Middleburg road. After
receiving sundry lucid directions respecting a "blind road" and an "old field," we turned away.
How dark it was growing! how weirdly soughed the wind among the pine tops! how bodingly the
thunder growled afar! There came a great slow drop: another, and suddenly, with swiftly-rushing
sound, the rain was upon us, drenching us all at once before waterproofs and umbrellas could
be made available.

It was then that Barney showed the greatness of his soul. In the confusion of the moment we
had run afoul of a stout young oak, which obstinately menaced the integrity of our axle. It
was only possible to back out of the predicament, but Barney scorned the thought of retreat.
Not all the blandishments of the Small Boy, whether brought to bear in the form of entreaties,
remonstrances, jerks or threats, availed: Barney stood unmoved, and the hatchet was our only
resource. How that mule's eye twinkled as from time to time he cast a backward glance upon
the Small Boy wrestling with a dull hatchet and a sturdy young scrub-oak under the pelting
rain, amid lightning-flash and thunder-peal, needs a more graphic pen than mine to describe.
A better-drenched biped than climbed into the wagon at the close of this episode, or a more
thoroughly-satisfied quadruped than jogged along before him, it would be difficult to find.

As suddenly as they had come up the clouds rolled away, and sunlight flamed out from the west--so
suddenly that it caught the rain halfway and filled the air with tremulous rainbow hues. Then
burst out afresh the songs of birds, sweet scents thrilled up from flower and shrub, the very
earth was fragrant, and fresh, resinous odors exhaled from every tree. The sun sank down in
gold and purple glory and night swept over the dark woods. Myriad fireflies flitted round,
insects chirped in every hollow, the whippoorwill called from the distant thicket, the night-hawk
circled in the open glade. A cheerful sound of cow-bells broke the noisy stillness, the forest
opened upon a row of dark buildings and darker orange trees, and barking of dogs and kindly
voices told us that rest was at hand.

No words can do justice to the hospitality of Floridians, whether native or foreign. We were
now to begin an experience which was to last us through our entire journey. Here we were, a
wandering company of who-knows-what, arriving hungry, drenched and unexpected long after the
supper-hour, and our mere appearance was the "open sesame" to all the treasures of house and
barn. Not knowing what our hap might be, we had gone provided with blankets and food, but both
proved to be superfluous wherever we could find a house. Bad might be the best it afforded,
but the best was at our service. At K----'s Ferry it was decidedly not bad. Abundance reigned
there, though in a quaint old fashion, and very soon after our arrival we were warming and
drying ourselves before a cheerful fire, while from the kitchen came most heartening sounds
and smells, as of fizzling ham and bubbling coffee.

Never was seen a prettier place than this as we beheld it by the morrow's light. The house
stands on a high bluff, worthy the name of hill, which slopes steeply but greenly down to the
South Prong of Black Creek, better deserving the name of river than many a stream which boasts
the designation. We crossed it upon a boom, pausing midway in sudden astonishment at the lovely
view. A long reach of exquisitely pure water, bordered by the dense overhanging foliage of
its high banks, stretched away to where, a mile below us, a sudden bend hid its lower course
from view, and on the high green bluff which closed the vista were seen the white house and
venerable overarching trees of some old estate. The morning air was crisp and pure; every leaf
and twig stood out with clean-cut distinctness, to be mirrored with startling clearness in
the stream; the sky was cloudless: no greater contrast could be imagined from the tender sweetness
of yesterday. The birds, exhilarated by the sparkle in the air, sang with a rollicking abandonment
quite contagious: the very kids and goats on the crags above the road caught the infection
and frisked about, tinkling their bells and joining most unmelodiously in the song; while Barney,
crossing the creek upon a flatboat, lifted up a tuneful voice in the chorus.

We turned aside from our route to visit Whitesville, the beautiful old home of Judge B----.
It is a noble great mansion, with broad double doors opening from every side of a wide hall,
and standing in the midst of a wild garden luxuriant with flowers and shrubs and vines, and
with a magnificent ivy climbing to the top of a tall blasted tree at the gate. "I came to this
place from New Haven in '29," its owner told us--"sailed from New York to Darien, Georgia,
in a sloop, and from there in a sail-boat to this very spot. I prospected all about: bought
a little pony, and rode him--well, five thousand miles after I began to keep count. Finally,
I came back and settled here."

"Were you never troubled by Indians?" we asked.

"Well, they put a fort here in the Indian war, the government did--right here, where you see
the china trees." It was a beautiful green slope beside the house, with five great pride-of-Indias
in a row and a glimpse of the creek through the thickets at the foot. "There never was any
engagement here, though. The Indians had a camp over there at K----'s, where you came from,
but they all went away to the Nation after a while."

"Did you stay here through the civil war?"

"Oh yes. I never took any part in the troubles, but the folks all suspected and watched me.
They knew I was a Union man. One day a Federal regiment came along and wanted to buy corn and
fodder. The men drew up on the green, and the colonel rode up to the door. 'Colonel,' says
I, 'I can't sell you anything, but I believe the keys are in the corn-barn and stable doors:
I can't hinder your taking anything by force.' He understood, and took pretty well what he
wanted. Afterward he came and urged me to take a voucher, but I wouldn't do that. By and by
the Confederates came around and accused me of selling to the Federals, but they couldn't prove
anything against me."

"There used to be Confederate head-quarters up there at K----'s?" we asked.

"Oh yes, and the Federals had it too. General Birney was there for a while. One day, just after
he came, a lot of 'em came over here. One of my boys was lying very sick in that front chamber
just then--the one you know, the county clerk. Well, an orderly rode up to the door and called
out, 'Here, you damned old rebel, the general wants you.'--'I don't answer to that name,' said
I.--'You don't?'--'No, I don't.'--'What! ain't you a rebel?'--' I don't answer to that name,'
said I.--'Well, consider yourself my prisoner,' says he; so I walked up there with him. Judge
Price was at head-quarters just then, and he knew me well. It seems that the general had heard
that I kept a regular rebel commissariat, sending stores to them secretly. Well, when the judge
had told him who I was, the general wrote me a pass at once, and then asked, 'Is there anything
I can do for you?'--'General,' said I, 'my son lies very sick. I should like to see the last
of him, and beg to be permitted to retire.'--'Is that so?' said the general. 'Would you like
me to send you a doctor?' I accepted, and he sent me two. He came up afterward, and found that
his men had torn down the fences, broken open the store and dragged out goods, set the oil
and molasses running, and done great damage--about four thousand dollars' worth, we estimated.
You see, they thought it was a rebel commissariat. When he came into the house he asked my
wife if she could give him supper. 'General,' said she, 'you have taken away my cooks: if you
will send for your own, I shall be very happy to get supper for you.' He did so, and spent
the night here, sleeping in one of the chambers while his officers lay all over the piazzas.
Next day they all rode away, quite satisfied, I guess. There were several skirmishes about
here afterward, and we have some pieces of bombs in the house now that fell in the yard."

The judge pressed us to stay and dine, but we had arranged for a gypsy dinner in the woods
and were anxious to push on. Push on! How Barney would smile could he hear the word! He never
did anything half so energetic as to push: he did not even pull.

So we bade farewell to our genial host and started westwardly again. We were now upon the high
land of the Ridge, the backbone of the State, and though, perhaps, hardly ninety feet above
the sea, the air had all the exhilarating freshness of great altitudes. All through the week
which followed we felt its tonic inspiration and seemed to drink in intoxicating draughts of
health and spirits, and never more than during the fifteen-mile drive between Black Creek and
Kingsley's Pond.

Kingsley's Pond, the highest body of water in the State, is the first of a long succession
of lakes which, lying between the St. John's and the railway, have only lately been, as it
were, discovered by the Northerner. It is perfectly circular in form, being precisely two miles
across in every direction. Like all the lakes of Florida, it is of immense depth, and its waters
are so transparent that the white sand at the bottom may be seen glistening like stars. In
common with the other waters of this region, it is surrounded by a hard beach of white sand,
rising gradually up to a beautifully-wooded slope, being quite free from the marshes which
too often render the lakes of Florida unapproachable.

One of the Northern colonies which within the last two years have discovered this delightful
region has settled on the shores of Kingsley's Pond. Although an infant of only twenty months,
the village has made excellent growth and gives promise of a bright future. Farming is not
largely followed, the principal industry of these and the other Northern colonists being orange-culture--a
business to which the climate is wonderfully propitious, the dry, pure air of this district
being alike free from excessive summer heats and from the frosts which are occasionally disastrous
to groves situated on lower ground in the same latitude.

Though there are few native Floridians in this part of the country, the neighborhood of the
lake rejoices in the possession of a Cracker doctress of wondrous powers. Who but her knows
that chapter in the book of Daniel the reading of which stays the flowing of blood, or that
other chapter potent to extinguish forest-fires? One does not need a long residence in the
State to learn to appreciate the good-fortune of the Lakers in this particular.

Not far from the village, on the western shore of the pond, lives the one "old settler." He
met us with the hearty welcome which we had learned almost to look for as a right, and sitting
on his front piazza in the shade of his orange trees, gladdening our eyes with the view of
his vine-embowered pigpen, we listened to the legend of the pond:

"Yes, I've lived yere four-and-twenty year, but I done kim to Floridy nigh on forty year ago:
walked yere from Georgy to jine the Injun war. I done found this place a-scoutin' about, and
when I got married I kim yere to settle. The Yankee folks wants to change the name o' the pond
to Summit Lake and one thing or 'nother, but I allays votes square agin it every time, and
allays will. You see, hit don't ought to be changed. I don't mind the pond part: they mought
call it lake ef they think it sounds better, but Kingsley's it has to be. K-i-n-g-l-e-s-l-e-y:
that, I take it, is the prompt way to spell the name of the man as named it, and that's the
name it has to have. You see hit was this a-way: Kingsley were a mail-rider--leastways, express--in
the old Injun wartime, I dunno how long ago. They was a fort on the pond them days, over on
the south side. Wal, Kingsley were a-comin' down toward the fort from the no'th when he thort
he see an Injun. He looked behind, and, sure enough, there they was, a-closin' in on him. He
looked ahead agin. Shore's you're bo'hn there was a double row on 'em--better'n a hunderd--on
all two sides of the trail. He hadn't a minit to study, and jist one thing to do, and he done
hit. He jist clapped spurs to his critter and made for the pond. He knowed what they wanted
of him"--confidentially and solemnly: "it were their intention to ketch him and scalp him alive,
you know. Wal, they follered him to the pond, a-whoopin' and a-yellin' all the way, makin'
shore on him. When he got to the pond he rid right in, the Injuns a'ter him, but his critter
soon began to gin out. When he see that he jist gethered up his kit and jumped into the water,
and swum for dear life. Two mile good that feller swum, and saved his kit and musket. The Injuns
got his critter, but you never see nothin' so mad as they was to see him git off that a-way.
The soldiers at the fort was a-watchin' all the time. They run down to meet him: they see he
looked kinder foolish as he swum in, and as soon as he struck the shore he jist flung himself
on the sand, and laid for half an hour athout openin' his eyes or speakin'. Then he done riz
right up and toted his kit to the commander, and axed to hev the pond named a'ter him. The
commander said it mought be so, and so hit was; and so it has to be, I says, and allays will."

It would be impossible to detail the exquisite and varied beauty of the way between Kingsley's
Pond and Ekoniah Scrub. Through the fair primeval forest we wandered, following the old Alachua
Trail, the very name of which enhanced the charm of the present scene by calling up thrilling
fancies of the past; for this is the famous Indian war-path from the hunting-grounds of the
interior to the settlements on the frontier, and may well be the oldest and the most adventure-fraught
thoroughfare in the United States. We could hardly persuade ourselves that we were not passing
through some magnificent old estate--of late, perhaps, somewhat fallen into neglect--so perfect
was the lawn-like smoothness of the grassy uplands, so rhythmical were the undulations of the
slopes, so majestic the natural avenues of enormous oaks, so admirable the diversity of hill
and dell, knoll and glade, shrubbery and lawn, forest and park, interspersed with frequent
sheets of water--Blue Pond, rivalling the sky in color; Sandhill Pond, deep set among high
wooded slopes, with picturesque log mill and house; Magnolia Lake, with its flawless mirror;
Crystal, of more than crystal clearness, with gorgeous sunset memories and sweet recollections
of kindly hospitalities in the two homes which crown its twin heights; Bedford and Brooklyn
Lakes, with log cottages beneath clustering trees; Minnie Lake, and its great alligator sleeping
on a log; starry Lily-Pad; and Osceola's Punch-bowl, deep enough, and none too large, to hold
the potations of a Worthy; Twin Lakes, scarce divided by the island in their midst; Double
Pond, low sunk in the green forest slope, a perfect circle bisected by a wooded ridge; Geneva
Lake, dotted with islands and beautiful with shining orange-groves;--always among the lawns
and glades, the forest-slopes and aisles of pines, with sough of wind and song of bird, and
fragrant wild perfumes. Always with bright "bits" of life between the long, grand silences--a
group of men faring on foot across the pine level; a rosy, bareheaded girl--the only girl in
the place--searching for calves in the dingle, who gave us flowers and told us the road with
the sweet, lingering cadence of the South in her velvet voice; two men riding by turns the
mule that bore their sacks of corn to mill; two boys carrying a great cross-cut saw along a
sloping lakeside, a noble Newfoundland dog frisking beside them; the fleet bay horse and erect
military figure of our host at Crystal Lake guiding us among the intricacies of the Lake Colony.
Always with sunny memories of happy hours--gypsy dinners beside golden-watered "branch" or
sapphire lake; the cheery half hour in the log house on the hill above the little grist-mill,
with the bright young Philadelphians who have here cast in their lot; the abundant feast in
the farm-house under the orange trees, and the "old-time" stories of the after-dinner hour;
the pleasant days at Crystal Lake, where our first day's drenching resulted so happily in a
slight illness that detained us in that lovely spot, and showed us, in the new colony lately
settled on this and the adjacent lakes, how refinement and cultivation, lending elegance to
rude toil and harsh privation, may realize even Utopian dreams.

The great farm on Geneva Lake was the first old plantation which we had seen since leaving
Kingsley's, and this lies on the outskirts of Ekoniah Scrub, which has long been settled by
native Floridians or Georgians. "Hit ain't a farmin' kentry, above there on the sandhills,"
said our host of the thrifty old farm on Lake Geneva. "It's fine for oranges an' bananas, but
the Scrub's better for plantin'. Talk about oranges! Look a' that tree afore you! A sour tree
hit were--right smart big, too--but four year ago I sawed it off near the ground and stuck
in five buds. That tree is done borne three craps a'ready--fifteen oranges the second year
from the bud, a hundred and fifty the third, and last year we picked eight hundred off her.
Seedlin's? Anybody mought hev fruit seven year from the seed, but they must take care o' the
trees to do it. Look a' them trees by the fence: eight year old, them is. Some of 'em bore
the sixth year: every one on 'em is sot full now--full enough for young trees.

"Yes, that's right smart good orange-land up there in the sandhills. Forty year ago, when I
kim yere, they was nothin' but wild critters in that lake kentry, as the Yankee folks calls
it: all kind o' varmints they was--bears, tigers, panthers, cats and all kinds. Right smart
huntin' they was, and 'tain't so bad now. They's rabbits and 'coons and 'possums, sure enough,
and deer too; and--Cats? Why, cats is plenty, but they ain't no 'count.

"I niver hunted much myself, but I've heerd an old man tell--Higgins by name. Ef you could
find him and could get him right, he'd tell you right smart o' stories about varmints, and
Injuns too. I've heerd him tell how he went out with some puppies one time to larn 'em to hunt
bear. He heerd one o' the puppies a-screechin', and kase he didn't want to lose him he run
up. The screechin' come from a sort o' scrub, and he got clost up afore he see it was a she-bear
and two cubs. The bear had the puppy, but when she see Higgins she dropped hit and made for
him. Now, you know, a bear ain't like no varmint nor cow-beast; hit don't go 'round under the
trees, but jest makes a road for itself over the scrub. Higgins hadn't no time to take aim,
and ef he'd 'a missed he was gone, sure 'nough; so he jest drawred his knife, and when she
riz up to clutch him he stuck her plum in the heart. Killed her, dead.

"No, I never had no trouble with Injuns. They was all gone to the Nation when I settled yere,
but I see Billy Bow-legs onct, and Jumper, too. I was ago-in' through the woods, and I met
a keert with three men in it. Two on 'em was kinder dark-lookin', but I never thort much of
that till the man that was drivin' stopped and axed me ef I knowed who he had in behind. It
was them two chiefs, sure 'nough: right good-lookin' fellers they was, too."

We had left the sandhills of the Ridge, and had reached the borders of the Scrub, but there
was yet another of the new Northern settlements to visit. It lay a few miles beyond Geneva
Lake, in the flat woods to the south of Santa Fé Lake, the largest and best known of the group.

Who does not know the dreary flat-woods villages of the South, with their decaying log cabins
and hopelessly unfinished frame houses--with their white roads, ankle-deep in sand, wandering
disconsolately among fallen trees and palmetto scrub and blackened stumps? Melrose is like
them all, but with a difference. The decaying cabins, new two years ago, are deserted in favor
of the great frame houses, which, unfinished indeed, have yet a determined air, as if they
meant to be finished some day. The sandy roads are alive with long trains of heavy log-trucks
or lighter freight-wagons; there are men actually buying things in the three stores; there
is a school, with live children playing before the door; there are saw- and grist-mills buzzing
noisily; there is a post-office, which connects us with the outer world as we receive our waiting
letters; there is a stir of enterprise in the air which speaks quite plainly of Chicago and
the Northern States, whence have come the colonists; there is talk of a railroad to the St.
John's on the east, and of a canal which shall connect the lakes with one another and with
the railway on the west; there is a really good hotel, where we spend the night in unanticipated
luxury upon a breezy eminence overlooking the silver sheet of Santa Fé Lake, which stretches
away for miles to the north and eastward.

The morrow was almost spent while we lingered in the neighborhood of the lake. The road makes
a wide circuit to avoid its far-reaching arms and bays: only here and there are glimpses of
the water seen through the trees and cart-tracks leading off to exquisite points of view upon
its banks. We are in the flat woods again--palmetto-clumps under the pine trees, pitcher-plants
and orchis in the low spots, violets and pinguicula beside the ditches, vetches and lupines
and pawpaw and the trailing mimosa in the sand. The park-like character of the woods is gone.
Still, there are here and there gentle undulations upon which the long lines of western sunlight
slope away; the lake gleams silvery through the trees; the air is pure and sparkling as in
high altitudes.

It was evening before we could leave the lakeside and plunge into the dense new growth which
adds to the ancient name of Ekoniah the modern appellation of "Scrub." Amid its close-crowding
thickets night came upon us speedily. How hospitably we were received in the bare new "homestead"
of Parson H----; how generously our hosts relinquished their one "barred" bed and passed a
night of horror exposed to the fury of myriad mosquitos, whose songs of triumph we heard from
our own protected pillows; how basely Barney requited all this kindness by breaking into the
corn-crib and "stuffing himself as full as a sausage," as the Small Boy reported,--may not
here be dwelt upon.

The early morning was exquisite. Soft mists veiled all the glorious colors; great spider-webs,
strung thick with diamonds, stretched from tree to tree; a little "pot-hole" pond of lilies
exhaled sweet odors; the lark's ecstatic song thrilled down from upper air. There was a gentle
hill before us, and halfway up a view to the right of a broad lake, with the log huts of a
"settlement" on the high bank. The sun has drunk up all the mists, and shines bright upon the
soft gray satin of the girdled pine trees in the clearing; flowers are crowding everywhere--orange
milkweed, purple phlox, creamy pawpaw, azure bluebells, spotted foxgloves, rose-tinted daisies,
brown-eyed coreopsias and unknown flowers of palest blue. Butterflies flit noiselessly among
them, and mocking-birds sing loud in the leafy screens above. A red-headed woodpecker taps
upon a resounding tree and screams in exultation as he seizes his prey.

We skirted Viola Lake, cresting the high hill, and descending to a shaded valley where the
lapping waters plashed upon the roadside: then mounted another hill, among thick clustering
oaks and giant pines, to where three lakes are seen spreading broadly out upon a grassy plain
between high wooded slopes. And these are Ekoniah! Twenty years ago a tiny rivulet, wandering
through broad prairies; eight years later a wider stream, already beginning to encroach upon
the grassy borderland; now a chain of ever-broadening lakes, already drawing near to the hills
which frame in the widespread plain. Famous grazing-lands these were once, the favored haunts
of cattle-drovers, more famous hunting-grounds in older days, before firm prairie had given
place to watery savanna. There were Indian villages upon the heights above and bloody battles
in the plains below. But who shall tell the story of those days? The Indians are gone; the
cattle-drovers have followed them to the far South; the new settler of twenty years ago cared
nothing for antiquities or for the legends of an older time. The dead past is buried: even
the sonorous old Indian name has been softened down to Etonia: be it the happy lot of this
chronicler to rescue it from oblivion!

The lakes of the lately-traversed "Lake Region," frequent as they had been, were as nothing
to those of Ekoniah Scrub. The road rose and fell over a succession of low hills, each ascent
gained discovering a new sheet of water to right, to left or before us, deep sunk among thick-clustering
trees. At rare intervals the forest would fall away on either hand, opening up a wide view
of cultivated fields, sweeping grandly down in long stripes of tender green to the billowy
verdure of the broad savanna, where silvery-sparkling lakes lay imbedded and great round "hummocks"
of dark trees uprose like islands in the grassy sea. In the distance would be barren slopes
of rich dark red and silvery gray, swelling upward to the far dim mystery of pine woods and
the blue arch above.

We ate our dinner beside Lake Rosa, a circular basin of clearest water rippling and dimpling
under the soft breeze. Toward evening we found the ford, which a paralytic old woman sitting
in a sunny corner of a farm-house piazza had indicated to us as "right pretty." Pretty it was,
indeed, as we came down to it through the most luxuriant of hummocks of transparent-foliaged
sweet-gums and shining-leaved magnolias with one great creamy flower. "Right pretty" it was,
too, in the old woman's meaning of the word, for Barney drew us through in safety, scarce up
to his knees in the transparent water which reflected so perfectly every flower and leaf of
the dense water-growth. The road beyond was cut through an arch of close-meeting trees, and
farther on it skirted a broad lake, which already, in its slow, sure, upward progress, had
covered the roadway and was reaching even to the fence which bounds the field above. In this
field is a large mound, never investigated, although the farmer who owns the property says
he has no doubt that it is the site of an Indian village, for the plough turns up in the fields
around not only arrow-heads, but fragments of pottery and household utensils. It was not our
good-fortune to obtain any of those relics, as they have not been preserved, and this was the
only mound of any extent which we saw. Such mounds are said, however, to be not infrequent
in this district, and Indian relics are found everywhere.

As we drove along the hillside we began to notice frequent basin-like depressions of greater
or less size, always perfectly circular, always with the same saucer-shaped dip, always without
crack or fissure, yet appearing to have been formed by a gradual receding of the substructure,
reminding one of the depression in the sand of an hour-glass or of the grain in a hopper. Many
of these concaves were dry; others had a little water in the bottom; all of them had trees
growing here and there, quite undisturbed, whether in the water or not; and there was no one
who had cared to note how long a time had elapsed since they had begun their "decline and fall."
There is little doubt, however, that the future traveller will find them developed into lakes,
as, indeed, we found one here and there upon the hilltops.

How many times we got lost among the lakes and "pot-holes," the fallen trees and thickets of
Ekoniah Scrub, it would be tedious to relate. How many times we came down to the prairie-level,
and, fearful to trust ourselves upon the treacherous, billowy green, were forced to "try back"
for a new road along the hillside, it would be difficult to say. The county clerk's itinerary
had ended here, and William Townsend proved to be less ubiquitous than we had been led to expect.
Thus it was that night came down upon us one evening before we had reached a place of shelter--suddenly,
in the thick scrub, not lingeringly, as in the long forest glades of the lake country. For
an hour we pushed on, trusting now to Barney's sagacity, now to the pioneering abilities of
Artist and Scribe, who marched in the van. Fireflies flitted about, their unusual brilliancy
often cheating us into the fond hope that shelter was at hand. The ignes-fatui in the valley
below often added to the deception, and after many disappointments we were about to spread
our blankets upon the earth and prepare for a night's rest al fresco when we heard a distant
cow-call. Clear and melodious as the far-off "Ranz des Vaches" it broke upon the stillness,
gladdening all our hearts. How we answered it, how we hastened over logs and through thickets
in the direction of answering voices and glancing lights--no ignes-fatui now--how we were met
halfway by an entire family whom we had aroused, and with what astonishment we heard ourselves
addressed by name,--can better be imagined than described. By the happiest of chances we had
come upon the home of some people whom we had casually met upon the St. John's River only a
few weeks before, and our dearest and oldest friends could not have welcomed us more cordially
or have been more gladly met by us.

In the early morning we heard again, between sleeping and waking, the musical cow-call. It
echoed among the hills and over the lakes: there were the tinkling of bells, the pattering
of hoofs, the eager, impatient sounds of a herd of cattle glad of morning freedom. It was like
a dream of Switzerland. And, hastening out, we found the dream but vivified by the intense
purity of the air surcharged with ozone, the exquisite clearness of the outlines of the hills,
the sparkling brightness of the lakes in the valley, the freshness of glory and beauty which
overspread all like a world new made.

One of the great events of that day was a desperate fight between two chameleons in a low oak-scrub
on the hilltop. The little creatures attacked each other with such fury, with such rapid changes
of color from gray to green and from green to brown, with such unexpected mutations of shape
from long and slender to short and squat, with such sudden dartings out and angry flamings
of the transparent membrane beneath the throat, with such swift springs and flights and glancings
to and fro, as were wonderful to see. It seemed as though both must succumb to the fierce scratchings
and clawings; and when at last one got the entire head of his adversary in his mouth and proceeded
deliberately to chew it up, we thought that the last act in the tragedy was at hand. The Small
Boy made a stealthy step forward with a view to a capture, when, presto! change! two chameleons
with heads intact were calmly gazing down upon us with that placid look of their kind which
seemed to assure us that fighting was the last act of which they were capable.

That day, too, is memorable for the charming scenes it brought us, impossible for the pencil
to reproduce with all their sweet accessories. We have found the ford at last, where the blue
ribbon of the stream lies across the white sand of our road. The prairie stretches out broad
and green with many circular islets of tree-mounds in the ocean-like expanse. The winding road
beyond the ford leads, between cultivated fields on one side and the tree-bordered prairie
on the other, up to the low horizon, where soft white thunderheads are heaped in the hazy blue.
The tinkling of cow-bells comes sweetly over the sea of grass; slow wavelets sob softly in
the sedges of the stream; fish glance through the water; a duck flies up on swiftly-whirring
wing. A great moss-draped live-oak leans over the stream, and the perfume of the tender grapes
which crown it floats toward us on the air.

Again, after we have climbed the hill to Swan Lake, and have dined beside Half-moon Pond, and
have "laid our course," as the sailors say, by our map and the sun, straight through the Scrub
to visit Lake Ella, we come out upon the heights above Lake Hutchinson. The dark greens of
the foreground soften into deep-blue shadows in the middle distance. Lake Hutchinson sparkles,
a vivid sapphire, against the distant silvery-gray of Lake Geneva, while far away the low blue
hills melt, range behind range, into the pale-blue sky.

Our faces were turned homeward, but there were yet many miles of the Ekoniah country running
to northward on the east of the Ridge, and lakes and lakes and lakes among the scrub-clothed
hills. A new feature had become apparent in many of them: a low reef of marsh entirely encircling
the inner waters and separating them from a still outer lagoon, reminding us, with a difference,
of coral-reefs encircling lakes in mid-ocean. The shores of these lakes were not marshy, but
firm and hard, like the lakes of the hilltops, with the same smooth forest-slope surrounding.
Is a reverse process going on here, we wondered, from that we have seen in the prairies, and
are these sheets of water to change slowly into marsh, and so to firm land again? There are
a number of such lakes as these, and on the heights above one of the largest, which they have
called Bethel, a family of Canadian emigrants have recently "taken up a homestead."

There was still another chain of prairie-lakes, the "Old Field Ponds," stretching north and
south on our right, and as we wound around them, plashing now and again through the slowly-encroaching
water, we had 'Gator-bone Pond upon our right. The loneliness of the scene was indescribable:
for hours we had been winding in and out among the still lagoons or climbing and descending
the ever-steeper, darker hills. Night was drawing on; stealthy mists came creeping grayly up
from the endless Old Field Ponds; fireflies and glow-worms and will-o'-the-wisps danced and
glowered amid the intense blackness; frogs croaked, mosquitos shrilled, owls hooted; Barney's
usual deliberate progress became a snail's pace, which hinted plainly at blankets and the oat-sack,--when,
all at once, a bonfire flamed up from a distant height, and the sagacious quadruped quickened
his pace along the steep hill-road.

A very pandemonium of sounds saluted our ears as we emerged from the forest--lowings and roarings
and shriekings of fighting cattle, wild hoots from hoarse masculine throats, the shrill tones
of a woman's angry voice, the discordant notes of an accordion, the shuffle of heavy dancing
feet. We had but happened upon a band of cow-hunters returning homeward with their spoils,
and the fightings of their imprisoned cattle were only less frightful than their own wild orgies.
If we had often before been reminded of Italian skies and of the freshness and brightness of
Swiss mountain-air, now thoughts of the Black Forest, with all of weird or horrible that we
had ever read of that storied country, rushed to our minds--robber-haunted mills, murderous
inns, treacherous hosts, "terribly-strange beds." Not that we apprehended real danger, but
to our unfranchised and infant minds the chills and fevers which mayhap lurked in the mist-clothed
forest, or even a wandering "cat," seemed less to be dreaded than the wild bacchanals who surrounded
us. We would fain have returned, but it was too late. Barney was already in the power of unseen
hands, which had seized upon him in the darkness; an old virago had ordered us into the house;
and when we had declined to partake of the relics of a feast which strewed the table, we were
ignominiously consigned to a den of a lean-to opening upon the piazza. A "terribly-strange
bed" indeed was the old four-poster, which swayed and shrieked at the slightest touch, and
myriad the enemies which there lay in wait for our blood. We were not murdered, however, nor
did our unseen foes--as had once been predicted by a Cracker friend--quite "eat us plum up,
bodaciously alive." In the early morning we fled, though not until we had seen how beautiful
a home the old plantation once had been. These were not Crackers among whom we had passed the
night, but the "native and best." Not a fair specimen of this class, surely, but such as here
and there, in the remoter corners of the South, are breeding such troubles as may well become
a grave problem to the statesman--the legitimate outgrowth of the old régime. War-orphaned,
untutored, unrestrained, contemning legitimate authority, spending the intervals of jail-life
in wild revels and wilder crimes,--such were the men in whose ruined home we had passed the night.

There was yet one more morning among the gorgeous-foliaged "scrub-hills," one more gypsy meal
by a lakeside, one more genial welcome to a hospitable Cracker board, and we were at home again
in the wide sea of pines which stretches to the St. John's. In the ten days of our journey
we had seen, within a tract of land some thirty miles long by forty in breadth, more than fifty
isolated lakes and three prairie-chains; had visited four enterprising Northern colonies and
numerous thrifty Southern farms; had found an air clear and invigorating as that of Switzerland,
soft and balmy as in the tropics, while the gorgeous colorings of tree and flower, of water
and sky, were like a dream of the Orient.

"But there!" said the Small Boy, stopping suddenly with a half-unbuckled strap of Barney's
harness in his hand: "we forgot one thing, after all: never found William Townsend!"--LOUISE
SEYMOUR HOUGHTON.

CANOEING ON THE HIGH MISSISSIPPI.

CONCLUDING PAPER.

Itasca Lake was first seen of white men by William Morrison, an old trader, in 1804. Several
expeditions attempted to find the source of the Great River, but the region was not explored
till 1832--by Schoolcraft, who regarded himself as the discoverer of Itasca. Much interesting
matter concerning the lake and its vicinity has been written by Schoolcraft, Beltrami and Nicollet,
but the exceeding difficulty of reaching it, and the absence of any other inducements thither
than a spirit of adventure and curiosity, make visitors to its solitudes few and far between.
Itasca is fed in all by six small streams, each too insignificant to be called the river's
source. It has three arms--one to the south-east, about three and a half miles long, fed by
a small brook of clear and lively water; one to the south-west, about two miles and a half
long, fed by the five small streams already described; and one reaching northward to the outlet,
about two and a half miles. These unite in a central portion about one mile square. The arms
are from one-fourth of a mile to one mile wide, and the lake's extreme length is about seven
miles. Its water is clear and warm. July thirteenth, when the temperature of the air was 76°,
the water in the largest arm of the lake varied between 74° and 80°. We saw no springs nor
evidences of them, and the water's temperature indicates that it receives nothing from below.
Still, it is sweet and pure to the taste and bright and sparkling to the eye. Careful soundings
gave a depth varying between fourteen and a half and twenty-six feet. The only island is that
named by Schoolcraft after himself in 1832. It is in the central body of the lake, and commands
a partial view of each arm. It is about one hundred and fifty feet wide by three hundred feet
long, varying in height from its water-line to twenty-five feet, and is thickly timbered with
maple, elm, oak and a thicket of bushes.

On Tuesday morning, July 14, at six o'clock, we paddled away from the island to the foot of
the lake. The outlet is entirely obscured by reeds and wild rice, through which the water converges
in almost imperceptible current toward the river's first definite banks. This screen penetrated,
I stopped the Kleiner Fritz in mid-stream and accurately measured width, depth and current.
I found the width twenty feet, the depth on either side of my canoe as she pointed down the
stream thirty-one inches, and the speed of the current two and one-tenth miles to the hour.
The first four miles of the infant's course is swift and crooked, over a bed of red sand and
gravel, thickly interspersed with mussel and other small shells, and bordered with reeds. Through
these, at two points, we beat our way on foot, dragging the canoes through unmade channels.
Indeed, nearly all of these first four miles demanded frequent leaps from the boats to direct
their swift and crooked course, until we came to a stretch of savanna country, through which
the river washes its way in serpentine windings for nine miles with a gentle current from thirty
to sixty feet wide, bordered by high grass, bearing the appearance and having the even depth
of a canal. An easy, monotonous paddle through these broad meadows brought us to the head of
the first rapids, the scene of our two days' upward struggle. These rapids extend about twelve
miles as the river runs, alternating between rattling, rocky plunges and swift, smooth water,
for the most part through a densely-wooded ravine cleft through low but abrupt hills, and as
lonely and cheerless as the heart of Africa. The solitude is of that sort which takes hold
upon the very soul and weaves about it hues of the sombrest cast. From our parting with the
Indians on first reaching the river we had neither seen nor heard a human being, nor were there
save here and there remote traces of man's hand. No men dwell there: nothing invites men there.
A few birds and fewer animals hold absolute dominion. Wandering there, one's senses become
intensely alert. But for the hoot of the owl, the caw of the crow, the scream of the eagle,
the infrequent twitter of small birds, the mighty but subdued roar of insects, the rush of
water over the rocks and the sigh and sough of the wind among the pines, the lonely wanderer
has no sign of aught but the rank and dank vegetation and a gloomy, oppressive plodding on
and on, without an instant's relief in the sights and sounds of human life. We entered upon
the descent of the rapids in no very cheerful mood.

The downward way was easier, and we had cleared away, in the upward struggle, such obstructions
as were within our control. Still, we travelled slowly and wearily, and came out of our first
day's homeward work wet and worn into a camp in the high grass a good twenty miles from the
start of the morning. We drew the canoes from the water, made our beds of blankets inside,
lashed our paddles to the masts for ridge-poles, thatched our little cabins with our rubber
blankets, hung our mosquito-bars beneath, then cooked and ate under the flare of our camp-fire,
and sought our canoe-beds for that sweet sleep which comes of weariness of body, but not of
mind, under the bright stars and broad-faced moon shining with unwonted clearness in that clear
air.

The night proved very cool. Our outer garments, wet from so much leaping in and out of the
canoes, and rolled up for storage on the decks over night, were found in the early morning
frozen stiff, and had to be thawed before we could unroll them. The thermometer registered
33° after six o'clock, and frost lay upon all our surroundings.

For two and a half days our course was down a stream winding gracefully through a broad region
of savanna country, occasionally varied by the crossing of low sandy ridges beautifully graved
by lofty yellow pines. In the savannas the shores are made of black soil drifted in, and forming,
with the dense mass of grass-roots, a tough compound in which the earthy and vegetable parts
are about equal, while the tall grass, growing perpendicularly from the shore, makes a stretch
of walls on either side, the monotony of which becomes at last so tiresome that a twenty-feet
hill, a boulder as large as a bushel basket or a tree of unusual size or kind becomes specially
interesting. Standing on tiptoe in the canoes, we could see nothing before or around us but
a boundless meadow, with here and there a clump of pines, and before and behind the serpent-like
creepings of the river. The only physical life to be seen was in the countless ducks, chiefly
of the teal and mallard varieties, a few small birds and the fish--lake-trout, grass-bass,
pickerel and sturgeon--constantly darting under and around us or poised motionless in water
so clear that every fin and scale was seen at depths of six and eight feet. The ducks were
exceedingly wild--something not easily accounted for in that untroubled and uninhabited country;
but we were readily able to reinforce our staple supplies with juicy birds and flaky fish broiled
over a lively fire or baked under the glowing coals.

By noon of Friday, the 18th, we had come to an average width in the river of eighty feet and
a sluggish flow of six feet in depth. We halted for our lunch at the mouth of the South (or
Plantagenian) Fork of the Mississippi, up which Schoolcraft's party pursued its way to Itasca
Lake. Thence a short run brought us suddenly upon Lake Marquette, a lovely sheet of water with
clearly-defined and solid shores, about one mile by two in extent, exactly across the centre
of which the river has entrance and exit. Beyond this, a short mile brought us to the sandy
beaches of Bemidji Lake, the first considerable body of water in our downward travel, and about
one hundred and twenty-five miles, as the river winds, from Itasca. The real name of the lake,
as used by the Indians and whites adjacent, is Benidjigemah, meaning "across the lake," and
Bemidji is frequently known as Traverse Lake. It is a lovely, unbroken expanse, about seven
miles long and four miles wide. Its shores are of beautiful white sand, gravel and boulders,
reaching back to open pine-groved bluffs. Our shore-searchers found agate, topaz, carnelian,
etc. Our approach to Bemidji had been invested with special interest as the first unmistakable
landmark in our lonely wanderings, and as the home of one man--a half-breed--the only human
being who has a home above Cass Lake. We found his hut, but not himself, at the river's outlet.
The lodge is neatly built of bark. It was surrounded by good patches of corn, potatoes, wheat,
beans and wild raspberries. There is a stable for a horse and a cow, and all about were the
conventional traps of a civilized biped who lives upon a blending of wit, woodcraft and industry.
We greatly wished to see this hermit, whose nearest neighbors are thirty miles away. His dog
welcomed us with all the passion of canine hunger and days of isolation, but the master was
gone to Leech Lake, as we afterward found from his Cass Lake neighbors. The wind favored a
sail across the lake--a welcome variation from our hitherto entirely muscular propulsion--so
we rigged our spars and canvas, drifted smoothly out into the trough of the lively but not
angry waves, and swept swiftly across the clear, bright little sea. The white caps dashed over
our decks and a few sharp puffs half careened our little ships, but the crossing was safely
and quickly made. It was yet only mid-afternoon, but we had paddled steadily and made good
progress nearly four days; so we went into early camp on a bluff overlooking the entire lake,
did our first washing of travel-stained garments, brought up epistolary arrearages, caught
two fine lake-trout for our next breakfast and went to sound sleep in the nine-and-a-half-o'clock
twilight.

We had been advised that we should need guides in finding our exits from the lakes, which were
obscured by reeds and wild rice. But no guide was to be had, and we easily found our own way.
The river at the outlet of Bemidji Lake is about one hundred and fifty feet wide, very shallow,
and runs swiftly over a bed of large gravel and boulders thickly grown with aquatic grass and
weeds. We had gone but a little way when a rattling ahead told of near proximity to swift and
rough water, down which we danced at a speed perilous to the boats, but not to our personal
safety. The river was unusually low, so that the many bouldery rapids which otherwise would
have been welcome were now only the vexatious hints of what might have been. The shallow foam
dashed down each rocky ledge without channel or choice, and whichever way we went we soon wished
we had gone another. The rocks were too many for evasion, and the swift current caught our
keels upon their half-sunken heads, which held us fast in imminent peril of a swamp or a capsize,
our only safety lying in open eyes, quick and skilful use of the paddle or a sudden leap overboard
at a critical instant. Added to these difficulties, a gusty head wind and lively showers obscured
the boulders and the few open channels. So we went on all the forenoon, hampered by our ponchos,
poling, drifting, paddling and peering our way, blinded by wind and rain, till we came to the
last of these labyrinths, liveliest and most treacherous of all. We were soaked, and only dreaded
an upset for our provisions and equipments. The rapid was long, rough, swift, crooked. The
Kleiner Fritz led the way into the swirl, and was caught, a hundred feet down, hard and fast
by her bow-keel, swung around against another boulder at her stern, and was pinned fast in
no sort of danger, the water boiling under and around her, while her captain sat at his leisure
as under the inevitable, with a don't-care-a-dash-ative procrastination of the not-to-be-avoided
jump overboard and wade for deeper water. The Betsy D., following closely, passed the Fritz
with a rush which narrowly escaped the impalement of the one by the other's sharp nose, struck,
hung for a moment, while the water dashed over her decks and around her manhole, then washed
loose and went onward safely to still water. The Fritz, solid as the Pyramids, beckoned the
Hattie to come on without awaiting the questionable time of the latter's release; so the namesake
of the hazel-eyed and brown-haired Indiana girl came into the boil and bubble, sailed gayly
by the troubles of the others, was gliding on toward quiet seas under her skipper's gleeful
whoops, when, bang! went her bow upon a rock, from which a moment's work freed her: tz-z-z-z-z-zip
crunched her copper nails over another just under water, whence she went bumping and crunching,
her captain's prudent and energetic guidance knocking his flag one way and his wooden hatch
the other, till finally his troubles were behind him. Then the Fritz began to stir. Her commander
went overboard and released her, then leaped astride her deck and paddled cautiously down the
rift and slowly down the quieter water below, howling through the pelting rain,

  "Then let the world wag along as it will:
       We'll be gay and happy still,"

until he came upon his comrades--one stumbling about over the blackened roots of grass and
underbrush from a recent fire in search of wood for our needed noon-day blaze; the other with
wet matches and birch bark, and imprecations for which there was ample justification, vainly
seeking that without which hot coffee and broiled bacon cannot be. The Kleiner Fritz's haversack
supplied dry matches, fire began to snap, coffee boiled, bacon sputtered on the ends of willow
rods, hard tack was set out for each man, and we sat upon our heels for lunch under the weeping
skies and willows, comparing notes and experiences.

Thence, three hours through monotonous savanna and steady rain brought us to the uppermost
bay of Cass Lake, and unexpectedly upon a straggling Indian village. We bore down upon it with
yells, and there came tumbling out from birch lodges and bark cabins the first human beings
we had seen for more than ten days, in all the ages, sizes, tints, costumes and shades of filth
known to the Chippewas of the interior wilderness. At first they were a little shy of us, but
we got into a stumbling conversation with the only man of the whole lot who wore breeches or
could compass a little English, and soon the dirty, laughing, wondering, chattering gang came
down to inspect us and our, to them, marvellous craft, and to fully enjoy what was perhaps
the most interesting event in many a long month of their uneventful lives. Then we paddled
across the bay, or upper lake, out into the broader swells of Cass Lake itself, pulled four
miles across to the northernmost point of Colcaspi, or Grand Island, and made our second Saturday
night's camp upon its white sands at or very near the spot where Schoolcraft and his party
had encamped in July, forty-seven years before. The landward side of the beautiful beach is
skirted by an almost impenetrable jungle. We had frequently seen traces, old and new, of deer,
moose, bears and smaller animals, but had seen none of the animals themselves save one fine
deer, and our sleep had been wholly undisturbed by prowlers; so we sank to rest on Grand Island
with no fears of invasion. At midnight the occupant of the Kleiner Fritz was aroused by a scratching
upon the side of the canoe and low, whining howls. He partially arose, confused and half asleep,
in doubt as to the character of his disturber, which went forward, climbed upon the deck and
confronted him through the narrow gable of his rubber roof with a pair of fiery eyes, which
to his startled imagination seemed like the blazing of a comet in duplicate. The owner of the
eyes was at arm's length, with nothing but a mosquito-bar intervening. Then the eyes suddenly
disappeared, and the scratching and howling were renewed in a determined and partially successful
effort to get between the overlapping rubber blankets to the captain of the Fritz. This movement
was defeated by a quick grasp of the edges of the blankets, and while the animal was snarling
and pawing at the shielded fist of his intended victim lusty shouts went out for the camp to
arouse and see what the enemy might be, as the Fritz was unwilling to uncover to his unknown
assailant. The Hattie's skipper, hard by, saw that something unusual was on hand, peered out,
and so increased the uproar as to draw the adversary's attack. Then the Betsy bore down upon
us all just as the hungry and persistent beast was crouching for a leap at the Hattie's jugular,
the loud bang of a Parker rifle rang out upon the stillness, and a fine, muscular lynx lay
dead at the Cincinnati Nimrod's feet. The animal's trail showed that he had prowled around
our bacon and hard tack in contempt, had inspected the Betsy's commander as he lay on the sand
in his blanket and under a huge yellow mosquito-bar, but had evidently concluded that any man
who could snore as that man usually did was not a good subject for attack, and so came on down
the beach in search of blood less formidably defended. We renewed our fire, examined our dead
disturber, and turned in again to sound sleep under the assuring suggestion of the Cincinnati
man that, whatever else the jungle might hide, two cannon-balls rarely enter the same hole.

Our heavy and late slumber was broken by the laugh and chatter of two Indian women and a child,
who in a bark canoe a little way from shore were regarding our camp in noisy curiosity. My
blanket suddenly thrown aside and a good-morning in English took them by surprise, and they
paddled away vigorously toward a group of lodges some four miles across the lake. In the glorious
sunset of a restful Sunday we crossed the glassy lake to its outlet, taking two fine lake-trout
of four pounds as we went, and glided out of as beautiful a lake as sun and moon shine upon
into the swift, steady, deep current of what for the first time in its long way Gulfward bears
the full dignity of a river. Its green banks are some two hundred feet apart. The water has
a regular depth of from five to six feet, and all the way to Lake Winnibegoshish affords an
unbroken channel for a medium-sized Western steamer. The shores, alternating between low, firm,
grass-grown earth and benches of luxuriant green twenty feet high, grown over with open groves
of fine yellow pines, were so beautiful and regular that we could hardly persuade ourselves
that we should not see, as we rounded the graceful curves, some fine old mansion of which these
turfed knolls and charming groves seemed the elegant lawns and parks. Our fleet unanimously
voted the river between Cass and Winnibegoshish Lakes the most beautiful of all its upper course.

We began our second week upon the Mississippi with a breakfast of baked lake-trout, slapjacks,
maple syrup and coffee, which embodied the culinary skill of the entire fleet: then started
for Winnibegoshish in the height of good spirits and physical vigor. In one of our easy, five-miles-an-hour
swings around the graceful curves we were met by a duck flying close over our heads with noisy
quacks. A little farther we came upon the cause of the bird's lively flight in an Indian boy,
not above nine years old, paddling a large birch canoe, over the gunwale of which peeped the
muzzle of a sanguinary-looking old shot-gun. The diminutive sportsman was for a moment dashed
by our sudden and novel appearance, but, from the way he urged his canoe and from the determined
set of his dirty face, we had small room to doubt the ultimate fate of the flying mallard.
Another curve brought us in sight of the home of the little savage, where a dozen Indians,
in all stages of nudity, were encamped upon a high bluff. A concerted whoop from our fleet
brought all of them from their smoky lodges, and we swept by under their wondering eyes and
exclamations. Then the high land was left behind, and half an hour between low meadows brought
us out upon the yellow sands and heaving swells of Lake Winnibegoshish, the largest in the
Mississippi chain, the dimensions of which, including its lovely north-eastern bay, are about
eleven by thirteen miles. The name signifies "miserable dirty water lake," but save a faint
tinge of brown its waters are as pure and sparkling as those of any of the upper lakes. Our
entrance upon Winnibegoshish was under a driving storm of wind and mist, against which we paddled
three miles to Duck Point, a slender finger of wooded sand and boulder reaching half a mile
out, at whose junction with the main land is a miserable village of most villainous-looking
Indians. One man alone could speak a little English, and through him we negotiated for replenishing
our provisions. Meantime, the storm freshened and embargoed an eight-mile journey across an
open and boiling sea; so we paddled to the outermost joint upon the jutting finger for a bivouac
under the trees, waiting the hoped-for lull of wind and wave at sunset. The smoke of our fire
invited to our camp the hungry natives, who dogged us at every turn all the long afternoon,
in squads of all numbers under twenty, and of all ages between two and seventy. One club-footed
and club-handed fellow of forbidding visage protested with hand and head that he neither spoke
nor understood our vernacular. Later, he sidled up to the Hattie's skipper and said in an earnest
sotto voce, "Gib me dime." Denied the dime, he intimated to the Betsy that he doted on bacon,
of which we were each broiling a slice. The Betsy's captain was bent upon securing an Indian
fish-spear, and he pantomimed to the twinkling eyes of the copper-skin that he would invest
a generous chunk of bacon in barbed iron. The Indian strode back to his village, and soon returned
with the spear, which he transferred to the Betsy's stores.

The conventional Indian maiden besieged the bachelor two-thirds of our expedition with all
the wiles that could be embodied in a comely and clean-calicoed charmer up in the twenties,
who finally bore away from the Betsy's private stores a fan of stunning colors and other odds
and ends of a St. Paul notion-store; while the guileless commander of the Hattie, whose cumulative
years should have taught him better, and whose thinly-clad brain-shelter and disreputable attempt
at sailor costume should have blunted all feminine javelins, surrendered to the ugliest old
septuagenarian in the village, and sent her heart away rejoicing in the ownership of a policeman's
whistle courted by her leering eyes and already smirched by her dirty lips, together with a
stock of tea, crackers and bacon for which her expanded corporosity evinced no imminent need.
At last rid of our importunate acquaintances, we turned in for a sleep, which we resolved should
be broken at the first moment, dark or light, when we might cross the lake. Before daylight
the Betsy's resonant call awoke us, and in the earliest gray we paddled out upon a heavy but
not foaming sea, and after two and a half hours of monotonous splashing in the trough of the
waves landed for breakfast on the eastern shore, whence we crossed a lovely bay and passed
out once more upon the river.

A mile on our way we came to the prettiest of the many Indian burying-grounds which we saw
now and then. Formerly, the Indians deposited their dead upon rude scaffolds well up in the
air. Now they seek high ground and place the bodies of the departed in shallow graves, over
which they build little wooden houses a foot or two high with gabled roofs, and mark each with
a white flag raised upon a pole a few feet above the sleeper's head. In this neighborhood we
inquired of a stalwart brave concerning our proximity to a portage by means of which a short
walk over to a small lake near the head of Ball Club Lake and a pull of six miles down the
latter would bring us out again into the river, and save a tedious voyage of twenty-five to
thirty miles through a broad savanna. The Indian in his old birch canoe joined our fleet, and
led us to the beginning of the portage near the foot of Little Winnipeg Lake. We had carried
two canoes and all the baggage over to the water on the other side of a sandy ridge, leaving
only the Kleiner Fritz to be brought, when our guide and packer, with a preliminary grunt,
said "Money?" inquiring how much we intended to pay him. He had worked hard for four hours,
for which we tried to tell him that we should pay him one dollar when he should bring over
the remaining canoe; but we could not make him understand what a dollar was. We then laid down,
one after another, four silver quarter-dollars and two bars of tobacco; whereupon he gave a
satisfied grunt and an affirmative nod, disappeared in the forest, and in less than an hour
returned with the Fritz upon his steaming shoulders, having covered more than three miles in
the round trip.

As we pulled out upon Ball Club Lake a gentle stern wind bade us hoist our canvas for an easy
and pleasant sail of six or seven miles down to the open river. We glided out gayly before
a gentle breeze, and sailed restfully over the little rippling waves, our speed increasing,
though we hardly noted the signs of a gale driving after us over the hills behind. The Hattie
was leading well over to the port shore, the Fritz bearing straight down the middle, with the
Betsy on the starboard quarter, when the storm struck us with a vigor that increased with each
gust. The black clouds swished over our heads, seemingly almost within reach of our paddles.
The sails tugged at the sheets with tiresome strength. The canoes now plunged into a wave at
the bows and were now swept by others astern, as they rushed forward like mettlesome colts
or hung poised upon or within a rolling swell, until, with the increasing gale, the roaring
waves dashed entirely over decks and men. The Hattie bore away to leeward and rode the gale
finely, but at last prudence bade the furling of her sail. Expecting no such blow the Fritz
had not taken the precaution to arrange her rubber apron for keeping out the waves from her
manhole, and now, between holding the sheet, steering and watching the gusty wind, neither
hand nor eye could be spared for defensive preparations; so her skipper struck sail and paddled
for the westward shore, with the Betsy lunging and plunging close behind. We on the windward
side sought the smoother water within the reeds, and drove along rapidly under bare poles,
out of sight of the Hattie, separated at nightfall by miles of raging sea. We rode before the
wind to the foot of the lake, where we were confronted by the alternative of a toilsome and
unsafe paddle around the coast against the storm's full force, or camping in mutual anxiety
as to the fate of the unseen party--a by no means pleasant sedative for a night's rest upon
wild and uninhabited shores. We decided upon the pull, and labored on, now upon the easy swells
within the reeds, and then tossing upon the crests in open places, until at last a whirling
column of smoke a mile ahead gave us assurance of the Hattie's safety. The reunited fleet paddled
down into the Mississippi, enlivening the darkness until we could find camping-ground beyond
the marshes by a comparison of storm-experiences and congratulations that we had escaped the
bottom of the lake.

Late in the afternoon of the next day, after a monotonous pull through the interminable windings
of Eagle Nest Savanna, we swept around a curve of high tillable land upon the uppermost farm
cultivated by whites, eighteen miles above Pekagema Falls, and one hundred and seventy miles
by river beyond the Northern Pacific Railroad. Thomas Smith and his partner, farming, herding
and lumbering at the mouth of Vermilion River, were the first white men we had seen since July
6, seventeen days, and with them we enjoyed a chat in straight English. Nine miles below we
camped at River Camp, the second farm downward, where we were kindly supplied with vegetables
and with fresh milk, which seemed to us then like the nectar of the gods. Thursday, 24th, we
reached Pekagema Falls, a wild pitch of some twenty feet, with rapids above and below, down
which the strong volume of the river plunges with terrible force in picturesque beauty. A carry
around the falls and three miles of paddling brought us to Grand Rapids, and we rushed like
the wind into the whirl and boil of its upper ledge, down the steep and crooked incline for
two hundred yards, out of which we shot up to the bank under a little group of houses where
Warren Potter and Knox & Wakefield conduct the uppermost post-office and stores upon the river.
We speedily closed our partly-completed letters and posted them for a pack-mail upon an Indian's
back sixty-five miles to Aitkin, while we should follow the tortuous river thither for one
hundred and fifty miles. We had hoped for a rest and lift hence to Aitkin upon the good steamboat
City of Aitkin, which makes a few lonely trips each spring and fall, but the low water had
prevented her return from her last voyage, made ten days before our arrival. Our stores replenished,
after two hours of rest we started again in a driving rain, and under the hearty bon voyage
of a dozen frontiersmen and Indians shot the two lively lower ledges of Grand Rapids, and came
out on smooth water, whose sluggish flow, broken by a very few rifts, bore us thence one hundred
and fifty miles to the next white settlement at Aitkin. The entire distance lies through low
bottom-lands heavily timbered, and our course was drearily monotonous. We left Grand Rapids
at mid-afternoon of Thursday, July 24, and camped on Friday night four miles below Swan River.
Late on Saturday we passed Sandy Lake River--where formerly were a large Indian population
and an important trading-post, founded and for many years conducted by Mr. Aitkin, who was
prominently identified with the early history of that region, and is now commemorated in the
town and county bearing his name, but where now remain only one or two deserted cabins and
a few Indian graves, over which white flags were flapping in the sultry breeze--and camped
two miles below. Monday's afternoon brought us to Aitkin, so that we had covered one hundred
and fifty miles of sluggish channel, at low summer tide, in three working days. We had been
four weeks beyond possibility of home-tidings, and we swooped down upon the disciple of Morse
in that far-away village with work that kept him clicking for an hour. We were handsomely taken
in by Warren Potter, a pioneer and an active and intelligent factor in the business of that
region, in whose tasteful home we for the first time in a month sat down and ate in Christian
fashion under a civilized roof. Having lost a week in the farther wilderness, we decided to
take the rail to Minneapolis, that we might enjoy the beautiful river thence to Lake Pepin,
yet reach our homes within the appointed time. Half a day was enjoyed at Brainerd, the junction
of the Northern Pacific main line with the St. Paul branch, and the most important town between
Lake Superior and the Missouri. It is beautifully built and picturesquely scattered among the
pines upon the Mississippi's eastern bank, not far above Crow Wing River. Thence we were carried
over the splendid railway, passing the now abandoned Fort Ripley, winding along or near to
the river and across the wheat-fields, through the busy and beautiful city of mills, below
St. Anthony's roar and down the dancing rapids to a pleasant island-camp between the green-and-gray
bluffs that bind Minneapolis to Minnehaha--the first really fine scenery this side of Itasca's
solitude. A delightful paddle under a bright morning sun and over swift, clear water carried
us to the little brook whose laughter, three-quarters of a mile up a deep ravine, has been
sent by Longfellow rippling outward to all the world. We rounded the great white-faced sand-rock
that marks the outlet, paddled as far as we might up the quiet stream, beached the canoes under
the shade of the willows, walked a little way up the brook, past a deserted mill, under cool
shadows of rock and wood, and enjoyed for half an hour the simple, seductive charms of the
"Laughing Water." Then we tramped back to our boats, floated down under the old walls of Fort
Snelling and between the chalk-white cliffs which line the broadening river, until we came
in sight of St. Paul's roofs and spires, and soon were enjoying the thoughtful care and generous
hospitality of the Minnesota Boat Club. Another day's close brought us to Red Wing, backgrounded
by the green bluffs and reddened cliffs of its bold hills. One more pull down the now broad
and islanded stream carried us to Lake Pepin, one of the loveliest mirrors that reflects the
sun, and to Frontenac's white beach. The keels of the Fritz, the Betsy and the Hattie crunched
the sands at the end of their long journey, the boats were shunted back upon the railway, and
their weary owners were soon dozing in restful forgetfulness upon the couches of the unsurpassed
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul line.

Beyond reasonable doubt, our party is the only one that ever pushed its way by boat up the
entire course of the farther-most Mississippi. Beyond any question, our canoes were the first
wooden boats that ever traversed those waters. Schoolcraft, in 1832, came all the way down
the upper river without portages, but he had very high water and many helpers, in spite of
which one of his birch canoes was wrecked. So we may well feel an honest pride in our Rushton-built
Rob Roys and our hard knocks, and may remember with pardonable gratification that upon our
own feet and keels we have penetrated the solitudes lying around the source of the world's
most remarkable river, where no men live and where, probably, not more than two-score white
men have ever been.--A.H. SIEGFRIED.

ADAM AND EVE.

CHAPTER XXVI.

By the time Reuben May entered the little town of Looe he had come to a decision about his
movements and how he should carry out his plan of getting back to London. Not by going with
Captain Triggs, for the monotonous inaction of a sailing voyage would now be insupportable
to him, but by walking as far as he could, and now and then, whenever it was possible, endeavoring
to get a cheap lift on the road. His first step must therefore be to inform Triggs of his decision,
and to do this he must get back to Plymouth, a distance from Looe of some fifteen or sixteen miles.

In going through Looe that morning he had stopped for a few minutes at a small inn which stood
not far from the beach; and having now crossed the river which divides West from East Looe,
he began looking about for this house, intending to get some refreshments, to rest for an hour
or so, and then proceed on his journey.

Already the town-clock was striking six, and Reuben calculated that if he started between nine
and ten he should have time to take another good rest on the road--which he had already once
that day traversed--and reach Plymouth Barbican, where the Mary Jane lay, by daybreak.

The inn found, he ordered his meal and informed the landlady of his intention.

"Why, do 'ee stop here till mornin', then," exclaimed the large-hearted Cornish woman. "If
'tis the matter o' the money," she added, eying him critically, "that's hinderin' 'ee from
it, it needn't to, for I'll see us don't have no quarrel 'bout the price o' the bed."

Reuben assured her that choice, not necessity, impelled his onward footsteps; and, thus satisfied,
she bade him "Take and lie down on the settle there inside the bar-parlor; for," she added,
"'less 'tis the sergeant over fra Liskeard 'tain't likely you'll be disturbed no ways; and
I shall be in and out to see you'm all right."

Reuben stretched himself out, and, overcome by the excitement and fatigue of the day, was soon
asleep and dreaming of those happier times when he and Eve had walked as friends together.
Suddenly some one seemed to speak her name, and though the name at once wove itself into the
movement of the dream, the external sound had aroused the sleeper, and he opened his eyes to
see three men sitting near talking over their grog.

With just enough consciousness to allow of his noticing that one was a soldier and the other
two were sailors, Reuben looked for a minute, then closed his eyes, and was again sinking back
into sleep when the name of Eve was repeated, and this time with such effect that all Reuben's
senses seemed to quicken into life, and, cautiously opening his eyes, so as to look without
being observed, he saw that it was the soldier who was speaking.

"Young chap, thinks I," he was saying, "you little fancy there's one so near who's got your
sweetheart's seal dangling to his fob;" and with an air of self-satisfied vanity he held out
for inspection a curious little seal which Reuben at once recognized as the same which he himself
had given to Eve.

The unexpected sight came upon him with such surprise that, had not the height of the little
table served as a screen to shelter him from view, his sudden movement must have betrayed his
wakefulness.

"He's a nice one for any woman to be tied to, he is!" replied the younger of the two sailors.
"Why, the only time as I ever had what you may call a fair look at un was one night in to the
King o' Proosia's, and there he was dealing out his soft sawder to little Nancy Lagassick as
if he couldn't live a minute out o' her sight."

"That's about it," laughed the soldier. "He's one of your own sort there: you Jacks are all
alike, with a wife in every port. However," he added--and as he spoke he gave a complacent
stroke to his good-looking face--"he may thank his stars that a matter of seven miles or so
lays between his pretty Eve and Captain Van Courtland's troop, or there'd have been a cutting-out
expedition that, saving the presence of those I speak before"--and he gave a most exasperating
wink--"might have proved a trifle more successful than such things have of late."

"Here, I say," said the sailor, flaming up at this ill-timed jocularity, "p'ra'ps you'll tell
me what 'tis you're drivin' at; for I've got to hear of it if you, or any o' your cloth either,
ever made a find yet. You're mighty 'cute 'bout other folks, though when the spirits was under
yer very noses, and you searched the houses through 'twas knowed to be stowed in, you couldn't
lay hold on a single cask. 'Tis true we mayn't have nabbed the men, but by jingo if 't has
come to us bein' made fools of by the women!"

"There, now, stash it there!" said his older comrade, who had no wish to see a quarrel ensue.
"So far as I can see, there's no cause for bounce 'twixt either o' us; though only you give
us a chance of getting near to them, sergeant," he said, turning to the soldier, "and I'll
promise you shall make it all square with this pretty lass you fancy while her lover's cutting
capers under Tyburn tree."

"'A chance?'" repeated his companion, despondingly: "where's it to come from, and the only
one we'd got cut away from under us by those Hart chaps?"

"How so? where's the Hart off to, then?" asked the sergeant.

"Off to Port Mellint," said the man addressed. "Nothing but a hoax, I fancy, but still she
was bound to go;" and so saying he tossed off the remainder of his grog and began making a
movement, saying, as he did so, to his somewhat quarrelsomely-disposed shipmate, "Here, I say,
Bill, come 'long down to the rendezvoos with me, and if there's nothin' up for to-night what
d'ye say to stepping round to Paddy Burke's? He's asked us to come ever so many times, you know."

"Paddy Burke?" said the sergeant. "What! do you know him? Why, if you're going there, I'll
step so far with you."

"Well, we're bound for the rendezvoos first," said the sailor.

"All right! I can find plenty to do while you're in there."

"Then come along;" and, only stopping to exchange a few words in passing with the landlady,
out they all went, and Reuben was left alone, a prey to the thoughts which now came crowding
into his mind.

For a few minutes he sat with his arms resting on the table as if communing with himself: then,
starting up as if filled with a sudden resolve, he went out and asked the landlady a few commonplace
questions, and finally inquired whereabouts and in what direction did the rendezvous lie.

"Close down by the bridge, the first house after you pass the second turning. Why?" she said:
"be 'ee wanting to see anybody there?"

"No," said Reuben: "I only heard the fellows that came in there talking about the rendezvous,
and I wondered whether I'd passed it."

"Why, iss, o' course you did, comin' in. 'Tis the house with the flag stream-in' over the doorways."

Reuben waited for no further information. He said something about not knowing it was so late,
bade the landlady a rather abrupt farewell, and went his way.

Down the narrow street he hurried, turned a corner, and found himself in front of the house
indicated, outside which all was dark. Nobody near, and, with the exception of himself, not
a soul to be seen. Inside, he could hear voices, and the more plainly from the top sash of
the window being a little way open. By the help of the iron stanchion driven in to support
the flagstaff he managed to get up, steady himself on the window-sill and take a survey of
the room. Several men were in it, and among them the two he had already seen, one of whom was
speaking to a person whom, from his uniform, Reuben took to be an officer.

The sight apparently decided what he had before hesitated about, and getting; down he took
from his pocket a slip of paper--one he had provided in case he should want to leave a message
for Eve--and rapidly wrote on it these words: "The Lottery is expected at Polperro tonight.
They will land at Down End as soon as the tide will let them get near."

Folding this, he once more mounted the window-sill, tossed the paper into the room, lingered
for but an instant to see that it was picked up, then jumped down, ran with all speed, and
was soon lost amid the darkness which surrounded him.

As he hurried from the house an echo seemed to carry to his ears the shout which greeted this
surprise--a surprise which set every one talking at once, each one speaking and no one listening.
Some were for going, some for staying away, some for treating it as a serious matter, others
for taking it as a joke.

At length the officer called "Silence!" and after a pause, addressing the men present in a
few words, he said that however it might turn out he considered that he should only be doing
his duty by ordering the boats to proceed to the place named and see what amount of truth there
was in this somewhat mysterious manoeuvre. If it was nothing but a hoax they must bear to have
the laugh once more turned against them; but should it turn out the truth! The buzz which greeted
this bare supposition showed how favorably his decision was regarded, and the absent men were
ordered to be summoned without delay. Everything was got ready as quickly as possible, and
in a little over an hour two boats started, fully equipped and manned, to lie in ambush near
the coast midway between Looe and Polperro.

While Fate, in the shape of Reuben May, had been hastening events toward a disastrous climax,
the course of circumstances in Polperro had not gone altogether smoothly. To Eve's vexation,
because of the impossibility of speaking of her late encounter with Reuben May, she found on
her return home that during her absence Mrs. Tucker had arrived, with the rare and unappreciated
announcement that she had come to stop and have her tea with them. The example set by Mrs.
Tucker was followed by an invitation to two or three other elderly friends, so that between
her hospitality and her excitement Joan had no opportunity of noticing any undue change in
Eve's manner or appearance. Two or three remarks were made on her pale face and abstracted
air, but this more by the way of teasing than anything else; while Joan, remembering the suppressed
anxiety she was most probably trying to subdue, endeavored to come to her aid and assist in
turning away this over-scrutiny of her tell-tale appearance.

The opportunity thus afforded by silence gave time for reflection, and Eve, who had never been
quite straightforward or very explicit about herself and Reuben May, now began to hesitate.
Perhaps, after all, it would be better to say nothing, for Joan was certain to ask questions
which, without betraying the annoyance she had undergone, Eve hardly saw her way to answering.
Again, it was not impossible but that Reuben's anger might relent, and if so he would most
probably seek another interview, in which to beg her pardon.

In her heart Eve hoped and believed this would be the case; for, indignantly as she had defied
Reuben's scorn and flung back his reproaches, they had been each a separate sting to her, and
she longed for the chance to be afforded Reuben of seeing how immeasurably above the general
run of men was the one she had chosen.

"Here, I say, Eve!" exclaimed Joan, as she came in-doors from bidding good-bye to the last
departure: "come bear a hand and let's set the place all straight: I can't abide the men's
coming home to find us all in a muddle."

Eve turned to with a good will, and the girls soon had the satisfaction of seeing the room
look as bright and cheery as they desired.

"Let's see--ten minutes past 'leben," said Joan, looking at the clock. "I don't see how 'tis
possible for 'em to venture in 'fore wan, 'less 'tis to Yallow Rock, and they'd hardly try
that. What do 'ee say, Eve? Shall we run up out to cliff, top o' Talland lane, and see if us
can see any signs of 'em?"

"Oh do, Joan!"

And, throwing their cloaks over them, off they set.

"Here, give me your hand," said Joan as they reached the gate and entered upon the path which
Eve had last trod with Adam by her side. "I knaw the path better than you, and 'tis a bit narrow
for a pitch-dark night like this. Take care: we'm come to the watter. That's right. Now up
we goes till we get atop, and then we'll have a good look round us."

Thus instructed, Eve managed to get on, and, stumbling up by Joan's side, they quickly reached
the narrow line of level which seemed to overhang the depths below.

"We couldn't see them if they were there," said Eve, turning to Joan, who was still peering
into the darkness.

"No, 'tis blacker than I thought," said Joan cheerily: "that's ever so much help to 'em, and--Hooray!
the fires is out! Do 'ee see, Eve? There ain't a spark o' nothin' nowheres. Ole Jonathan's
hoaxed 'em fine this time: the gawpuses have sooked it all in, and, I'll be bound, raced off
so fast as wind and tide 'ud carry 'em."

"Then they're sure to come now?" said Eve excitedly.

"Certain," said Joan. "They've seed the fires put out, and knaw it means the bait's swallowed
and the cruiser is off. I shouldn't wonder a bit if they'm close in shore, only waitin' for
the tide to give 'em a proper draw o' water, so that they may send the kegs over."

"Should we go on a bit farther," said Eve, "and get down the hill by the Warren stile? We might
meet some of 'em, perhaps."

"Better not," said Joan. "To tell 'ee the truth, 'tis best to make our way home so quick as
can, for I wudn't say us 'ull have 'em back quicker than I thought."

"Then let's make haste," exclaimed Eve, giving her hand to Joan, while she turned her head
to take a farewell glance in the direction where it was probable the vessel was now waiting.
"Oh, Joan! what's that?" For a fiery arrow had seemed to shoot along the darkness, and in quick
succession came another and another.

Joan did not answer, but she seemed to catch her breath, and, clutching hold of Eve, she made
a spring up on to the wall over which they had before been looking. And now a succession of
sharp cracks were heard, then the tongues of fire darted through the air, and again all was gloom.

"O Lord!" groaned Joan, "I hope 'tain't nothin's gone wrong with 'em."

In an instant Eve had scrambled up by her side: "What can it be? what could go wrong, Joan?"

But Joan's whole attention seemed now centred on the opposite cliff, from where, a little below
Hard Head, after a few minutes' watching, Eve saw a blue light burning: this was answered by
another lower down, then a rocket was sent up, at sight of which Joan clasped her hands and
cried, "Awn, 'tis they! 'tis they! Lord save 'em! Lord help 'em! They cursed hounds have surely
played 'em false."

"What! not taken them, Joan?"

"They won't be taken," she said fiercely. "Do you think, unless 'twas over their dead bodies,
they'd ever let king's men stand masters on the Lottery's deck?"

Eve's heart died within her, and with one rush every detail of the lawless life seemed to come
before her.

"There they go again!" cried Joan; and this time, by the sound, she knew their position was
altered to the westward and somewhat nearer to land. "Lord send they mayn't knaw their course!"
she continued: "'tis but a point or two on, and they'll surely touch the Steeple Reef.--Awh,
you blidthirsty cowards! I wish I'd the pitchin' of every man of 'ee overboards: 'tis precious
little mercy you'd get from me. And the blessed sawls to be caught in yer snarin' traps close
into home, anighst their very doors, too!--Eve, I must go and see what they means to do for
'em. They'll never suffer to see 'em butchered whilst there's a man in Polperro to go out and
help 'em."

Forgetting in her terror all the difficulties she had before seen in the path, Eve managed
to keep up with Joan, whose flying footsteps never stayed until she found herself in front
of a long building close under shelter of the Peak which had been named as a sort of assembling-place
in case of danger.

"'Tis they?" Joan called out in breathless agony, pushing her way through the crowd of men
now hastening up from all directions toward the captain of the Cleopatra.

"I'm feared so;" and his grave face bespoke how fraught with anxiety his fears were.

"What can it be, d'ee think?"

"Can't tell noways. They who brought us word saw the Hart sail, and steady watch has been kept
up, so that us knaws her ain't back."

"You manes to do somethin' for 'em?" said Joan.

"Never fear but us'll do what us can, though that's mighty little, I can tell 'ee, Joan."

Joan gave an impatient groan. Her thorough comprehension of their danger and its possible consequences
lent activity to her distress, while Eve, with nothing more tangible than the knowledge that
a terrible danger was near, seemed the prey to indefinite horrors which took away from her
every sense but the sense of suffering.

By this time the whole place was astir, people running to this point and that, asking questions,
listening to rumors, hazarding a hundred conjectures, each more wild than the other. A couple
of boats had been manned, ready to row round by the cliff. One party had gone toward the Warren,
another to Yellow Rock. All were filled with the keenest desire not only to aid their comrades,
but to be revenged on those who had snared them into this cunningly-devised pitfall. But amid
all this zeal arose the question, What could they do?

Absolutely nothing, for by this time the firing had ceased, the contest was apparently over,
and around them impenetrable darkness again reigned supreme. To show any lights by which some
point of land should be discovered might only serve as a beacon to the enemy. To send out a
boat might be to run it into their very jaws, for surely, were assistance needed, those on
board the Lottery would know that by this time trusty friends were anxiously watching, waiting
for but the slightest signal to be given to risk life and limb in their service.

The wisest thing to be done was to put everything in order for a sudden call, and then sit
down and patiently abide the result. This decision being put into effect, the excited crowd
began to thin, and before long, with the exception of those who could render assistance, very
few lookers-on remained. Joan had lingered till the last, and then, urged by the possibility
that many of her house-comforts might be needed, she hurried home to join Eve, who had gone
before her.

With their minds running upon all the varied accidents of a fight, the girls, without exchanging
a word of their separate fears, got ready what each fancied might prove the best remedy, until,
nothing more being left to do, they sat down, one on each side of the fire, and counted the
minutes by which time dragged out this weary watching into hours.

"Couldn't 'ee say a few hymns or somethin', Eve?" Joan said at length, with a hope of breaking
this dreadful monotony.

Eve shook her head.

"No?" said Joan disappointedly. "I thought you might ha' knowed o' some." Then, after another
pause, struck by a happier suggestion, she said, "S'pose us was to get down the big Bible and
read a bit, eh? What do 'ee say?"

But Eve only shook her head again. "No," she said, in a hard, dry voice: "I couldn't read the
Bible now."

"Couldn't 'ee?" sighed Joan. "Then, after all, it don't seem that religion and that's much
of a comfort. By what I'd heard," she added, "I thought 'twas made o' purpose for folks to
lay hold on in times o' trouble."

CHAPTER XXVII.

It was close upon three o'clock: Joan had fallen into an uneasy doze and Eve was beginning
to nod, when a rattle of the latch made them both start up.

"It can't be! Iss, it is, though!" screamed Joan, rushing forward to meet Adam, who caught
both the girls in a close embrace.

"Uncle? uncle?" Joan cried.

"All safe," said Adam, releasing her while he strained Eve closer to his heart. "We're all
back safe and sound, and, saving Tom Braddon and Israel Rickard, without a scratch 'pon any of us."

"Thank God!" sighed Eve, while Joan, verily jumping for joy, cried, "But where be they to,
eh, Adam? I must rin, wherever 'tis, and see 'em, and make sure of it with my awn eyes."

"I left them down to quay with the rest: they're all together there," said Adam, unwilling
to lose the opportunity of securing a few minutes alone with Eve, and yet unable to command
his voice so that it should sound in its ordinary tone.

The jar in it caught Joan's quick ear, and, turning, she said, "Why, whatever have 'ee bin
about, then? What's the manin' of it all? Did they play 'ee false, or how?"

Adam gave a puzzled shake of the head. "You know quite as much about it as I do," he said.
"We started, and got on fair and right enough so far as Down End, and I was for at once dropping
out the kegs, as had been agreed upon to do, at Sandy Bottom--"

"Well?" said Joan.

"Yes, 'twould ha' been well if we'd done it. Instead of which, no sooner was the fires seen
to be out--meaning, as all thought, that the Hart was safe off--than nothing would do but we
must go on to Yellow Rock, which meant waiting for over an hour till the tide served for it."

"But you never gived in to 'em, Adam?"

"Gived in?" he repeated bitterly. "After Jerrem had once put the thought into their heads you
might so well have tried to turn stone walls as get either one to lay a finger on anything.
They wanted to know what was the good o' taking the trouble to sink the kegs overboard when
by just waitin' we could store all safe in the caves along there, under cliff."

"Most half drunk, I s'pose?" said Joan.

"By Jove! then they'd pretty soon something to make 'em sober," replied Adam grimly; "for in
little more than half an hour we spied the two boats comin' up behind us, and 'fore they was
well caught sight of they'd opened out fire."

"And had 'ee got to return it?" asked Joan.

"Not till they were close up we didn't, and then I b'lieve the sight of us would have been
enough; only, as usual, Mr. Jerrem must be on the contrary, and let fly a shot that knocked
down the bow-oar of the foremost boat like a nine-pin. That got up their blood a bit, and then
at it our chaps went, tooth and nail--such a scrimmage as hasn't been seen hereabouts since
the Happy-go-Lucky was took and Welland shot in her."

"Lord save us! However did 'ee manage to get off so well?" said Joan.

"Get off?" he said. "Why, we could have made a clean sweep of the whole lot, and all the cry
against me now is that I kept 'em from doing it. The fools! not to see that our best chance
is to do nothing more than defend ourselves, and not run our necks into a noose by taking life
while there's any help for it!"

"Was the man shot dead that Jerrem fired at?" asked Eve.

"No, I hope not; or, if so, we haven't heard the last of it, for, depend on it, this new officer,
Buller, he's an ugly customer to deal with, and won't take things quite so easy as old Ravens
used to do."

"You'll be faintin' for somethin' to eat," said Joan, moving toward the kitchen.

"No, I ain't," said Adam, laying a detaining hand upon her. "I couldn't touch a thing: I want
to be a bit quiet, that's all. My head seems all of a miz-maze like."

"Then I'll just run down and see uncle," said Joan, "and try and persuade un to come home alongs,
shall I?"

Adam gave an expressive movement of his face. "You can try," he said, "but you haven't got
much chance o' bringin' him, poor old chap! He thinks, like the rest of 'em, that they've done
a fine night's work, and they must keep it up by drinking to blood and glory. I only hope it
may end there, but if it doesn't, whatever comes, Jerrem's the one who's got to answer for it all."

While he was saying these words Adam was pulling off his jacket, and now went to the kitchen
to find some water with which to remove the black and dirt from his begrimed face and hands.

Eve hastened to assist him, but not before Joan had managed, by laying her finger on her lip,
to attract her attention. "For goodness gracious' sake," she whispered, "don't 'ee brathe no
word 'bout the letter to un: there'd be worse than murder 'twixt 'em now."

Eve nodded an assurance of silence, and, opening the door, Joan went out into the street, already
alive with people, most of them bent on the same errand as herself, anxious to hear the incidents
of the fight confirmed by the testimony of the principal actors.

The gathering-point was the sail-house behind the Peak, and thither, in company with several
friends, Joan made her way, and soon found herself hailed with delight by Uncle Zebedee and
Jerrem, both of whom were by this time primed up to giving the most extraordinary and vivid
accounts of the fight, every detail of which was entirely corroborated by those who had been
present and those who had been absent; for the constant demand made on the keg of spirits which,
in honor of the victory, old Zebedee had insisted on having broached there, was beginning to
take effect, so that the greater portion of the listeners were now turned into talkers, and
thus it was impossible to tell those who had seen from those who had heard; and the wrangling,
laughter, disputes and congratulations made such a hubbub of confusion that the room seemed
for the time turned into a very pandemonium.

Only one thing all gave hearty assent to: that was that Jerrem was the hero on whom the merit
of triumph rested, for if he hadn't fired that first shot ten to one but they should have listened
to somebody whom, in deference to Zebedee, they refrained from naming, and indicated by a nod
in his direction, and let the white-livered scoundrels sneak off with the boast that the Polperro
men were afraid to give fight to them. Afraid! Why, they were afraid of nothing, not they!
They'd give chase to the Hart, board the Looe cutter, swamp the boats, and utterly rout and
destroy the whole excise department: the more bloodthirsty the resolution proposed, the louder
was it greeted.

The spirit of lawless riot seemed suddenly let loose among them, and men who were usually kind-hearted
and--after their rough fashion--tenderly-disposed seemed turned into devils whose delight was
in violence and whose pleasure was excess.

While this revelry was growing more fast and furious below Adam was still sitting quietly at
home, with Eve by his side using her every art to dispel the gloom by which her lover's spirits
were clouded--not so much on account of the recent fight, for Adam apprehended no such great
score of danger on that head. It was true that of late such frays had been of rare occurrence,
yet many had taken place before, and with disastrous results, and yet the chief actors in them
still lived to tell the tale; so that it was not altogether that which disturbed him, although
it greatly added to his former moodiness, which had originally sprung out of the growing distaste
to the life he led.

The inaction of the time spent in dodging about, with nothing to occupy him, nothing to interest
him, had turned Adam's thoughts inward, and made him determine to have done with these ventures,
in which, except as far as the gain went, he really had nothing in common with the companions
who took part in them. But, as he very well knew, it was far easier to take this resolution
in thought than it was to put it into action. Once let the idea of his leaving them get abroad,
and difficulties would confront him whichever way he turned: obstacles would block his path
and suspicion dodge his footsteps.

His comrades, though not very far-seeing men, were quite sharp enough to estimate the danger
of losing sight of one who was in possession of all their secrets, and who could at any moment
lay his finger upon every hiding-place in their district.

Adam himself had often listened to--and, in company with others, silently commended--a story
told of years gone by, when a brother of the owner of the Stamp and Go, one Herkles Johns,
had been pressed into the king's service, and had there acquitted himself so gallantly that
on his return a commission had been offered to him, which he, longing to take, accepted under
condition of getting leave to see his native place again. With the foreboding that the change
of circumstances would not be well received, he seized the opportunity occasioned by the joy
of his return to speak of the commission as a reward offered to him, and asked the advice of
those around as to whether he had not best accept it. Opposition met him on every side. "What!"
they said, "of his own free will put himself in a place where some day he might be forced to
seize his father's vessel or swear away the lives of those he had been born among?" The bare
idea was inadmissible; and when, from asking advice, he grew into giving his opinion, and finally
into announcing his decision, an ominous silence fell on those who heard him; and, though he
was unmolested during his stay, and permitted to leave his former home, he was never known
to reach his ship, aboard which his mysterious disappearance was much talked of, and inquiries
set afloat to find out the reason of his absence; but among those whose name he bore, and whose
confidence he had shared, he seemed to be utterly forgotten. His name was never mentioned nor
his fate inquired into; and Adam, remembering that he had seen the justice of this treatment,
felt the full force of its reasoning now applied to his own case, and his heart sank before
the difficulties in which he found himself entangled.

Even to Eve he could not open out his mind clearly, for, unless to one born and bred among
them, the dangers and interests of the free-traders were matters quite beyond comprehension;
so that now, when Eve was pleading, with all her powers of persuasion, that for her sake Adam
would give up this life of reckless daring, the seemingly deaf ear he turned to her entreaties
was dulled through perplexity, and not, as she believed, from obstinacy.

Eve, in her turn, could not be thoroughly explicit. There was a skeleton cupboard, the key
of which she was hiding from Adam's sight; for it was not entirely "for her sake" she desired
him to abandon his present occupation: it was because, in the anxiety she had recently undergone,
in the terror which had been forced upon her, the glaze of security had been roughly dispelled,
and the life in all its lawlessness and violence had stood forth before her. The warnings and
denunciations which only a few hours before, when Reuben May had uttered them, she had laughed
to scorn as idle words, now rang in her ears like a fatal knell: the rope he had said would
hang them all was then a sieve of unsown hemp, since sprung up, and now the fatal cord which
dangled dangerously near.

The secret thoughts of each fell like a shadow between them: an invisible hand seemed to thrust
them asunder, and, in spite of the love they both felt, both were equally conscious of a want
of that entire sympathy which is the keystone to perfect union.

"You were very glad to see me come back to you, Eve?" Adam asked, as, tired of waiting for
Joan, Eve at length decided to sit up no longer.

"Glad, Adam? Why do you ask?"

"I can't tell," he said, "I s'pose it's this confounded upset of everything that makes me feel
as I do feel--as if," he added, passing his hand over his forehead, "I hadn't a bit of trust
or hope or comfort in anything in the world."

"I know exactly," said Eve. "That's just as I felt when we were waiting for you to come back.
Joan asked if we should read the Bible, but I said no, I couldn't: I felt too wicked for that."

"Wicked?" said Adam. "Why, what should make you feel wicked?"

Eve hesitated. Should she unburden her heart and confess to him all the fears and scruples
which made it feel so heavy and ill at ease? A moment's indecision, and the opportunity lost,
she said in a dejected tone, "Oh, I cannot tell; only that I suppose such thoughts come to
all of us sometimes."

Adam looked at her, but Eve's eyes were averted; and, seeing how pale and troubled was the
expression on her face, he said, "You are over-tired: all this turmoil has been too much for
you. Go off now and try to get some sleep. Yes, don't stay up longer," he added, seeing that
she hesitated. "I shall be glad of some rest myself, and to-morrow we shall find things looking
better than they seem to do now."

Once alone, Adam reseated himself and sat gazing abstractedly into the fire: then with an effort
he seemed to try and shake his senses together, to step out of himself and put his mind into
a working order of thought, so that he might weigh and sift the occurrences of these recent events.

The first question which had flashed into everybody's mind was, What had led to this sudden
attack? Had they been betrayed? and if so, Who had betrayed them? Could it be Jonathan? Though
the thought was at once negatived, no other outsider knew of their intended movements. Of course
the matter had been discussed--as all matters were discussed and voted for or against--among
the crew; but to doubt either of them was to doubt one's self, and any fear of betrayal among
themselves was unknown. The amount of baseness such a suspicion would imply was too great to
be incurred even in thought. What, then, could have led to this surprise? Had their movements
been watched, and this decoy of the cutter only swallowed with the view of throwing them off
their guard?

Adam was lost in speculation, from which he was aroused by the door being softly opened and
Joan coming in. "Why, Adam, I thought to find 'ee in bed," she said. "Come, now, you must be
dreadful tired." Then, sitting down to loosen her hood, she added with a sigh, "I stayed down
there so long as I could, till I saw 'twasn't no good, so I comed away home and left 'em. 'Tis
best way, I b'lieve."

"I knew 'twas no good your going," said Adam hopelessly. "I saw before I left 'em what they'd
made up their minds to."

"Well, perhaps there's a little excuse this time," said Joan, not willing to blame those who
were so dear to her; "but, Adam," she broke out, while her face bespoke her keen appreciation
of his superiority, "why can't th' others be like you, awh, my dear? How different things 'ud
be if they only was!"

Adam shook his head. "Oh, don't wish 'em like me," he said. "I often wish I could take my pleasure
in the same things and in the same way that they do: I should be much happier, I b'lieve."

"No, now, don't 'ee say that."

"Why, what good has it done that I'm otherwise?"

"Why, ever so much--more than you'll ever know, by a good bit. I needn't go no further than
my awnself to tell 'ee that. P'r'aps you mayn't think it, but I've bin kep' fra doin' ever
so many things by the thought o' 'What'll Adam say?' and with the glass in my hand I've set
it down untasted, thinkin' to myself, 'Now you'm actin' agen Adam's wish, you knaw.'"

Adam smiled as he gave her a little shake of the hand.

"That's how 'tis, you see," she continued: "you'm doin' good without knawin' of it." Then,
turning her dark eyes wistfully upon him, she asked, "Do 'ee ever think a bit 'pon poor Joan
while you'm away, Adam? Come, now, you mustn't shove off from me altogether, you knaw: you
must leave me a dinkey little corner to squeeze into by."

Adam clasped her hand tighter. "Oh, Joan," he said, "I'd give the whole world to see my way
clearer than I do now: I often wish that I could take you all off to some place far away and
begin life over again."

"Awh!" said Joan in a tone of sympathy to which her heart did not very cordially respond, "that
'ud be a capital job, that would; but you ain't manin' away from Polperro?"

"Yes, far away. I've bin thinkin' about it for a good bit: don't you remember I said something
o' the sort to father a little time back?"

"Iss, but I didn't knaw there was any more sense to your words than to threaten un, like. Awh,
my dear!" she said with a decided shake of the head, "that 'ud never do: don't 'ee get hold
o' such a thought as that. Turn your back upon the place? Why, whatever 'ud they be about to
let 'ee do it?"

Joan's words only echoed Adam's own thoughts: still, he tried to combat them by saying, "I
don't see why any one should try to interfere with what I might choose to do: what odds could
it make to them?"

"Odds?" repeated Joan. "Why, you'd hold all their lives in your wan hand. Only ax yourself
the question, Where's either one of 'em you'd like to see take hisself off nobody knows why
or where?"

Adam could find no satisfactory reply to this argument: he therefore changed the subject by
saying, "I wish I could fathom this last business. 'Tis a good deal out o' the course o' plain
sailing. So far as I know by, there wasn't a living soul but Jonathan who could have said what
was up for to-night."

"Jonathan's right enough," said Joan decidedly. "I should feel a good deal more mistrust 'bout
some of 'em lettin' their tongues rin too fast."

"There was nobody to let them run fast to," said Adam.

"Then there's the writin'," said Joan, trying to discover if Adam knew anything about Jerrem's
letter.

Adam shook his head. "'Tisn't nothing o' that sort," he said. "I don't know that, beyond Jerrem
and me, either o' the others know how to write; and I said particular that I should send no
word by speech or letter, and the rest must do the same; and Jonathan would ha' told me if
they'd broke through in any way, for I put the question to him 'fore he shoved off."

"Oh, did 'ee?" said Joan, turning her eyes away, while into her heart there crept a suspicion
of Jonathan's perfect honesty. Was it possible that his love of money might have led him to
betray his old friends? Joan's fears were aroused. "'Tis a poor job of it," she said, anxiously.
"I wish to goodness 't had happened to any o' the rest, so long as you and uncle was out of it."

"And not Jerrem?" said Adam, with a feeble attempt at his old teasing.

"Awh, Jerrem's sure to fall 'pon his feet, throw un which way you will," said Joan. "Besides,
if he didn't"--and she turned a look of reproach on Adam--"Jerrem ain't you, Adam, nor uncle
neither. I don't deny that I don't love Jerrem dearly, 'cos I do"--and for an instant her voice
seemed to wrestle with the rush of tears which streamed from her eyes as she sobbed--"but for
you or uncle, why, I'd shed my heart's blood like watter--iss that I would, and not think 'twas
any such great thing, neither."

"There's no need to tell me that," said Adam, whose heart, softened by his love for Eve, had
grown very tender toward Joan. "Nobody knows you better than I do. There isn't another woman
in the whole world I'd trust with the things I'd trust you with, Joan."

"There's a dear!" said Joan, recovering herself. "It does me good to hear 'ee spake like that.
'Tis such a time since I had a word with 'ee that I began to feel I don't know how-wise."

"Well, yes," said Adam, smiling, "'tis a bravish spell since you and me were together by our
own two selves. But I declare your talk's done me more good than anything I've had to-day.
I feel ever so much better now than I did before."

Joan was about to answer, when a sound made them both start and stand for a moment listening.

"'Tis gone, whatever it was," said Adam, taking a step forward. "I don't hear nothing now, do you?"

Joan pushed back the door leading to the stairs. "No," she said: "I reckon 'twas nothin' but
the boards. Howiver, 'tis time I went, or I shall be wakin' up Eve. Her's a poor sleeper in
general, but, what with wan thing and 'nother, I 'spects her's reg'lar wornout, poor sawl!
to-night."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Wornout and tired as she felt when she went up stairs, Eve's mind was so excited by the day's
adventures that she found it impossible to lull her sharpened senses into anything like repose,
and after hearing Joan come in she lay tossing and restless, wondering why it was she did not
come up, and what could possibly be the cause of her stopping so long below.

As time went on her impatience grew into anxiety, which in its turn became suspicion, until,
unable longer to restrain herself, she got up, and, after listening with some evident surprise
at the stair-head, cautiously stole down the stairs and peeped, through the chink left by the
ill-fitting hinge of the door, into the room.

"There isn't another woman in the whole world I'd trust with the things I'd trust you with,
Joan," Adam was saying. Eve bent a trifle farther forward. "You've done me more good than anything
I've had to-day. I feel ever so much better now than I did before."

An involuntary movement, giving a different balance to her position, made the stairs creak,
and to avoid detection Eve had to make a hasty retreat and hurry back, so that when Joan came
up stairs it was to find her apparently in such a profound sleep that there was little reason
to fear any sound she might make would arouse her; but long after Joan had sunk to rest, and
even Adam had forgotten his troubles and anxieties, Eve nourished and fed the canker of jealousy
which had crept into her heart--a jealousy not directed toward Joan, but turned upon Adam for
recalling to her mind that old grievance of not giving her his full trust.

At another time these speeches would not have come with half the importance: it would have
been merely a vexation which a few sharp words would have exploded and put an end to. But now,
combined with the untoward circumstances of situation--for Eve could not confess herself a
listener--was the fact that her nerves, her senses and her conscience seemed strained to a
point which made each feather-weight appear a burden.

Filled with that smart of wounded love whose sweetest balm revenge seems to supply, Eve lay
awake until the gray light of day had filled the room, and then, from sheer exhaustion, she
fell into a doze which gradually deepened into a heavy sleep, so that when she again opened
her eyes the sun was shining full and strong.

Starting up, she looked round for Joan, but Joan had been up for a couple of hours and more.
She had arisen very stealthily, creeping about with the hope that Eve would not be disturbed
by her movements, for Adam's great desire was that Eve's feelings should be in no way outraged
by discovering either in Uncle Zebedee or in Jerrem traces of the previous night's debauch;
and this, by Joan's help, was managed so well that when Eve made her appearance she was told
that Uncle Zebedee, tired like herself, was not yet awake, while Jerrem, brisked up by several
nips of raw spirit, was lounging about in a state of lassitude and depression which might very
well be attributed to reaction and fatigue.

Perhaps if Eve could have known that Adam was not present she would have toned down the amount
of cordiality she threw into her greeting of Jerrem--a greeting he accepted with such a happy
adjustment of pleasure and gratitude that to have shown a difference on the score of Adam's
absence would have been to step back into their former unpleasant footing.

"Adam's gone out," said Jerrem in answer to the inquiring look Eve was sending round the kitchen.

"Oh, I wasn't looking for Adam," said Eve, while the rush of vexed color denied the assertion:
"I was wondering where Joan could be."

"She was in here a minute ago," said Jerrem, "telling me 'twas a shame to be idlin' about so."

"Why, are you still busy?" said Eve.

"No, nothin' to speak of but what 'ull wait--and fit it should--till I'd spoken to you, Eve.
I ain't like one who's got the chance o' comin' when he's minded to," he added, "or the grass
wouldn't ha' had much chance o' growin' under my feet after once they felt the shore. No, now,
don't look put out with me: I ain't goin' to ask ye to listen to nothin' you don't want to
hear. I've tried to see the folly o' that while I've bin away, and 'tis all done with and pitched
overboard; and that's what made me write that letter, 'cos I wanted us two to be like what
we used to be, you know."

"I wish you hadn't written that letter, though," said Eve, only half inclined to credit Jerrem's
assertions.

"Well, as things have turned out, so do I," said Jerrem, who, although he did not confess it
to himself, would have given all he possessed to feel quite certain Eve would keep his secret.
"You see, it's so awkard like, when everybody's tryin' to ferret out how this affair came about.
You didn't happen to mention it to nobody, I s'pose?" and he turned a keen glance of inquiry
toward Eve.

"Me mention it?" said Eve: "I should think not! Joan can tell you how angry we both were, for
of course we knew that unless Adam had some good cause he wouldn't have wished it kept so secret."

"And do you think I should have quitted a word to any livin' soul but yourself?" exclaimed
Jerrem. "I haven't much sense in your eyes, I know, Eve, but you might give me credit o' knowing
who's to be trusted and who isn't."

"What's that about trustin'?" said Joan, who now made her appearance. "I tell 'ee what 'tis,
Mr. Jerrem, you'm not to be trusted anyhows. Why, what could 'ee ha' bin thinkin' of to go
sendin' that letter you did, after Adam had spoke to 'ee all? There'd be a purty set-out of
it, you knaw, Jerrem, if the thing was to get winded about. I, for wan, shouldn't thank 'ee,
I can tell 'ee, for gettin' my name mixed up with it, and me made nothin' better than a cat's-paw
of."

"Who's goin' to wind it about?" said Jerrem, throwing his arm round her and drawing her coaxingly
toward him. "You ain't, and I ain't, and I'll answer for it Eve ain't; and so long as we three
keep our tongues atween our teeth, who'll be the wiser--eh?"

"Awh, that's all very fine," returned Joan, far from mollified, "but there's a somebody hasn't
a-kept their tongues silent; and who it can be beats me to tell. Did Jonathan knaw for certain
'bout the landin'? or was it only guess-work with un?"

"I ain't sure; but Jonathan's safe enough," said Jerrem, "and so's the rest too. 'Twarn't through
no blabbin', take my word for that: 'twas a reg'lar right-down set scheme from beginnin' to
end, and that's why I should ha' liked to ha' give 'em a payin'-out that they wouldn't ha'
forgot in a hurry. I'd ha' scored their reckonin' for 'em, I can tell *'eel"

"Awh! iss, I dare say," said Joan with scornful contempt: "you allays think you knaws better
than they you'm bound to listen to. Howsomedever, when all's said and done, I shall finish
with the same I began with--that you'd no right to send that letter."

"Well, you've told me that afore," said Jerrem sullenly.

"Iss, and now I tells 'ee behind," retorted Joan, "and to front and to back, and round all
the sides--so there!"

"Oh, all right!" said Jerrem: "have your talk out: it don't matter to me;" and he threw himself
down on the settle with apparent unconcern, taking from his breast-pocket a letter which he
carefully unfolded.--"Did you know that I'd got a letter gived me to Guernsey, Eve," he said--"one
they'd ha' kept waitin' there for months for me?"

Eve looked up, and, to her vexation, saw Jerrem reading the letter which on her first arrival
she had written: the back of it was turned toward her, so as to ostentatiously display the
two splotches of red sealing-wax.

"Why, you doan't mane to say you've a-got he?" exclaimed Joan, her anger completely giving
way to her amazement. "Well, I never! after all this long whiles, and us a-tryin' to stop un,
too!--Eve, do 'ee see he's got the letter you writ, kisses and all?"

"Joan!" exclaimed Eve in a tone of mingled reproof and annoyance, while Jerrem made a feint
of pressing the impressions to his lips, casting the while a look in Eve's direction, which
Joan intercepting, she said, "Awh! iss I would, seeing they'm so much mine as Eve's, and you
doan't know t'other from which."

"That's all you can tell," said Jerrem.

"Iss, and all you can tell, too," replied Joan; adding, as the frown on his face betokened
rising anger, "There, my dear, you'd best step inside wi' me and get a drop more o' your mornin's
physic, I reckon."

"Physic?" growled Jerrem. "I don't want no physic--leastwise, no more than I've had from you
already."

"Glad to hear it," said Joan. "When you change your mind--which, depend on it, 'ull be afore
long--you'll find me close to hand.--I must make up a few somethin's for this evenin'," she
said, addressing Eve, "in case any of 'em drops in. Adam's gone off," she added, "I don't know
where, nor he neither till his work's done."

"Might just as well have saved hisself the trouble," growled Jerrem.

"No, now, he mightn't," replied Joan. "There's spurrits enough to wan place and t'other to
float a Injyman in, and the sooner 'tis got the rids of the better, for 'twill be more by luck
than good management if all they kegs is got away unseen."

"Oh, of course Adam's perfect," sneered Jerrem. Then, catching sight of Eve's face as he watched
Joan go into the kitchen, he added with a desponding sigh, "I only wish I was; but the world's
made for some: I s'pose the more they have the more they get."

Eve did not answer: perhaps she had not heard, as she was just now engaged in shifting her
position so as to escape the dazzling rays of the sun, which came pouring down on her head.
The movement seemed to awaken her to a sense of the day's unusual brightness, and, getting
up, she went to the window and looked out. "Isn't it like summer?" she said, speaking more
to herself than to Jerrem. "I really must say I should like to have gone somewhere for a walk."

The words, simple in themselves, flung in their tone a whole volume of reproach at Adam, for
to Eve's exacting mind there could be no necessity urgent enough to take Adam away without
ever seeing her or leaving a message for her.

"Well, come out with me," said Jerrem: "there's nothin' I should like better than a bit of
a stroll. I'd got it in my head before you spoke."

Eve hesitated.

"P'r'aps you'm thinkin' Adam 'ud blame 'ee for it?"

"Oh dear, no, I'm not: I'm not quite such a slave to Adam's opinion as that. Besides," she
added, feeling she was speaking, with undue asperity, "surely everybody may go for a walk without
being blamed by anybody for it: at all events, I mean to go."

"That's right," said Jerrem.--"Here, I say, Joan, me and Eve's goin' out for a little."

"Goin' out? Where to?" said Joan, coming forward toward the door, to which he had advanced.

"Oh, round about for a bit--by Chapel Rock and out that ways."

"Well, if you goes with her, mind you comes back with her. D'ee hear, now?--Don't 'ee trust
un out o' yer sight, Eve, my dear--not further than you can see un, nor so far if you can help it."

"You mind yer own business," said Jerrem.

"If you was to do that you'd stay at home, then," said Joan, dropping her voice; "but that's
you all over, tryin' to put your finger into somebody's else's pie.--I doubt whether 'twill
over-please Adam either," she added, coming back from watching them down the street; "but,
there! if he and Eve's to sail in one boat, the sooner he learns 'twon't always be his turn
to handle the tiller the better."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was getting on for three o'clock when Adam, having completed all the business he could accomplish
on that day, was returning home. He had been to the few gentlemen's houses near, had visited
most of the large farms around, and had found a good many customers ready to relieve him of
a considerable portion of the spirit which, by reason of their living so near at hand, would
thus evade much of the danger attendant on a more distant transfer.

Every one had heard of the recent attack on the Lottery, and much sympathy was expressed and
many congratulations were tendered on account of their happy escape.

Adam was a general favorite, looked up to and respected as an honest, straight-forward fellow;
and so little condemnation was felt against the trade carried on that the very magistrate consented
to take a portion of the goods, and saw no breach of his office in the admonition he gave to
keep a sharp lookout against these new-comers, who seemed somewhat over-inclined to show their
teeth.

Adam spoke freely of the anxiety he felt as to the result of the encounter, but very few seemed
to share it. Most of them considered that, having escaped, with the exception of strengthened
vigilance no further notice would be taken, so that his mind was considerably relieved about
the matter, and his heart felt lighter and his pace more brisk in returning than when in the
morning he had set out on his errand.

His last visit had been to Lizzen, and thence, instead of going back by the road, he struck
across to the cliff by a narrow path known to him, and which would save him some considerable
distance.

The day was perfect--the sky cloudless, the sea tranquil: the young verdure of the crag-crowned
cliffs lay bathed in soft sunshine. For a moment Adam paused, struck by the air of quiet calm
which overspread everything around. Not a breath of wind seemed abroad, not a sail in sight,
not a sound to be heard. A few scattered sheep were lazily feeding near; below them a man was
tilling a fresh-cleared patch of ground; far away beyond two figures were standing side by side.

Involuntarily, Adam's eyes rested on these two, and while he gazed upon them there sprang up
into his heart the wish that Eve was here. He wanted her--wanted to remind her of the promise
she had given him before they parted, the promise that on his return she would no longer delay,
but tell him the day on which he might claim her for his wife. A minute more, and with all
speed he was making a straight cut across the *cliff-side. Disregarding the path, he scrambled
over the projections of rock and trampled down the furze, with only one thought in his mind--how
soon he could reach home.

"Where's Eve, Joan?" he asked as, having looked through two of the rooms, he came, still in
breathless haste, into the outer kitchen, where Joan was now busily engaged in baking her cakes.

"Ain't her outside nowheres?" said Joan, wiping her face with her apron to conceal its expression.

"No, I can't see her."

"Awh, then, I reckon they'm not come in yet;" and by this time she had recovered herself sufficiently
to turn round and answer with indifference.

"Who's they?" said Adam quickly.

"Why, her went out for a bit of a stroll with Jerrem. They--"

But Adam interrupted her. "Jerrem?" he exclaimed. "Why should she go out with Jerrem?"

"Awh, he's right enough now," said Joan. "He's so sober as a judge, or I wouldn't ha' suffered
'en anighst her. Eve thought she should like a bit of a walk, and he offered to go with her;
and I was very glad of it too, for Tabithy wanted to sandy the floors, so their room was better
for we than their company."

"'Tis very strange," said Adam, "that Eve can't see how she puts me out by goin' off any way
like this with Jerrem. I won't have it," he added, with rising anger, "and if she's to be my
wife she sha'n't do it, either; so she'd best choose between us before things go too far."

"Awh, don't 'ee take it like that," said Joan soothingly. "'Twasn't done with no manin' in
it. Her hadn't any more thought o' vexin' 'ee than a babby; nor I neither, so far as that goes,
or I should ha' put a stopper on it, you may be sure. Why, go and meet 'em. They'm only out
by Chapel Rock: they left word where they was goin' a-purpose."

A little mollified by this, Adam said, "I don't tell Eve everything, but Jerrem and I haven't
pulled together for a long time, and the more we see o' one another the worse it is, and the
less I want him to have anything to say to Eve. He's always carryin' on some game or 'nother.
When we were at Guernsey he made a reg'lar set-out of it 'bout some letter that came there
to him. Well, who could that have been from? Nobody we know anything about, or he'd have said
so. Besides, who should want to write to him, or what business had he to go blabbin' about
which place we were bound for? I haven't seen all the soundings o' that affair clear yet, but
I mean to. I ain't goin' to be 'jammed in a clench like Jackson' for Jerrem nor nobody else."

Joan made no answer. She seemed to be engaged in turning her crock round, and while bending
down she said, "Well, I should go after 'em if I was you. They'm sure not to be very far off,
and I'll get tea ready while you'm gone."

Adam moved away. Somewhat reluctant to go, he lingered about the rooms for some time, making
up his mind what he should do. He could not help being haunted by an idea that the two people
he had seen standing were Eve and Jerrem. It was a suspicion which angered him beyond measure,
and after once letting it come before him it rankled so sorely that he determined to satisfy
himself, and therefore started off down the street, past the quay and up by the steps.

"Here, where be goin' to?" called out a voice behind him.

Without stopping Adam turned his head. "Oh, Poll, is that you?" he said.

"Iss."

"Have ye seen Eve pass this way? I think she'd got Jerrem with her."

"S'pose if I have?" said Poll, with whom Adam was no favorite: "they doesn't want you. You
stay where you be now. I hates to see anybody a-spilin' sport like that."

With no very pleasant remark on the old woman Adam turned to go on.

"Awh, you may rin," she cried, "but you woan't catch up they. They was bound for Nolan Point,
and they's past there long afore now."

Then the two he had seen were they! An indescribable feeling of jealousy stung Adam, and, giving
way to his temper in a volley of oaths against old Poll, he turned back, repassed her and went
toward home, while she stood enjoying his discomfiture, laughing heartily at it as she called
out, "I hears 'ee. Swear away! I don't mind yer cusses, not I. Better hear they than be deef."

CHAPTER XXIX.

"Joan, you needn't expect me till you see me"--Joan turned quickly round to see Adam at the
door, looking angry and determined--"and you can tell Eve from me that as it seems all one
to her whatever companion she has, I don't see any need for forcing myself where I am told
I should only be one in the way."

"Adam--" But the door was already slammed, and Joan again left in possession of the kitchen.--"Now,
there 'tis," she said in a tone of vexation, "just as I thought: a reg'lar piece o' work made
all out o' nothin'. Drabbit the maid! If her's got the man her wants, why can't her study un
a bit? But somehow there's bin a crooked stick lyin' in her path all day to-day: her's nipped
about somethin', I'm positive sure o' that; and they all just come home too, and everythin',
and now to be at daggers--drawn with one 'nother! 'Tis terrible, 'tis."

Joan's reflections, interrupted by the necessary attention which her cakes and pasties made
upon her, lasted over some considerable time, and they had not yet come to an end when two
of the principal objects of them presented themselves before her. "Why, wherever have 'ee bin
to?" she said peevishly. "Whatever made 'ee stay away like this for--actin' so foolish, when
you knaws, both of 'ee, what a poor temper Adam's got if anythin' goes contrary with un?"

Jerrem shrugged his shoulders, while Eve, at once assuming an injured air for such an unmerited
attack, said, "Really, Joan, I don't know what you mean. Old Poll Potter has just been telling
us that Adam came flying and fuming up her way, wanting to know if she'd seen us, and then,
when she said where we'd gone to, he used the most dreadful language to her--I'm sure I don't
know for what reason. He chose to go out without me this morning."

"But that was 'bout business," said Joan.

"Oh, business!" repeated Eve. "Business is a very convenient word when you don't want to tell
a person what your real errand is. Not that I want to pry into Adam's secrets--far from it.
He's quite welcome to keep what he likes from me, only I'd rather he wouldn't tell me half
things. I like to know all or none."

Joan looked mystified, and Jerrem, seeing she did not know what to say, came to the rescue.
"I'm sure I'm very vexed if I've been the cause of anything o' this, Eve," he said humbly.

"You needn't be at all vexed: it's nothing at all to do with you. You asked me to go, and I
said yes: if I hadn't wanted to go I should have said no. Any one would think I'd committed
a crime, instead of taking a simple walk, with no other fault than not happening to return
home at the very same minute that it suited Adam to come back at."

"But how is it he's a seed you if you haven't a seed he?" said Joan, fairly puzzled by this
game of cross-purposes. "He came home all right 'nuf, and then went off to see whereabouts
he could find 'ee to; and 'bout quarter'n hour after back he comes in a reg'lar pelt, and says,
'You tell Eve,' he says, 'that I'm not goin' to foace myself where I'm told I sha'n't be wanted.'
Awh, my dear, he'd seed 'ee somewheres," she continued in answer to Eve's shrug of bewilderment:
"I could tell that so soon as iver I'd clapped eyes on un."

"And where's he off to now?" said Eve, determined to have an immediate settlement of her wrongs.

"I can't tell: he just flung they words at me and was gone."

Eve said no more, but with the apparent intention of taking off her hat went up stairs, while
Joan, bidding Jerrem go and see if Uncle Zebedee was roused up yet, returned to her previous
occupation of preparing the tea. When it was ready she called out, "Come 'long, Eve;" but no
answer was returned. "Tay's ready, my dear." Still no reply.--"She can't ha' gone out agen?"
thought Joan, mounting the stairs to ascertain the cause of the silence, which was soon explained
by the sight of Eve flung down on the bed, with her head buried in the pillow.--"Now, whatever
be doin' this for?" exclaimed Joan, bending down and discovering that Eve was sobbing as if
her heart would break. "Awh, doan't cry now, there's a dear: 't 'ull all come straight agen.
Why, now, you'll see Adam 'ull be back in no time. 'Twas only through bein' baulked when he'd
a come back o' purpose to take 'ee out."

"How was I to know that?" sobbed Eve.

"No, o' course you didn't, and that's what I told un. But, lors! 'tis in the nature o' men
to be jealous o' one 'nother, and with Adam more partickler o' Jerrem; so for the future you
must humor un a bit, 'cos there's things atwixt they two you doan't know nothin' of, and so
can't allays tell when the shoe's pinchin' most."

"I often think whether Adam and me will be happy together," said Eve, sitting up and drying
her eyes. "I'm willing to give in, but I won't be trampled upon."

"And he won't want to trample 'pon 'ee, neither. Only you study un a bit, and you'll soon learn
the measure o' Adam's foot. Why, 'tis only to see un lookin' at 'ee to tell how he loves 'ee;"
and Joan successfully kept down a rising sigh as she added, "Lors! he wouldn't let a fly pitch
'pon 'ee if he could help it."

"If he'd seen us before he came in first he'd have surely told you?" said Eve.

"Awh, he hadn't seen 'ee then," said Joan, "'cos, though he was a bit vexed, he wasn't in no
temper. 'Twas after he went out the second time that he must have cast eyes on 'ee some way.
Jerrem wasn't up to none of his nonsense, was he?" she asked. '"Cos I knaws what Jerrem is.
He don't think no more o' givin' 'ee a kiss or that than he does o' noddin' his head or crookin'
his elbaw; and if Adam caught un at that, it 'ud be enough for he."

Eve shook her head. "Jerrem never takes none of those liberties with me," she said: "he knows
I won't allow him to. The whole of the time we did nothing but talk and walk along till we
came to a nice place, and then we stayed for a little while looking at the view together, and
after that came back."

"'Tis more than I can make out, then," said Joan, "'cos, though I wondered when you set off
whether Adam would 'zactly relish your bein' with Jerrem, I never thought 'twould put un out
like this."

"It makes me feel so miserable!" said Eve, trying to keep back her tears; "for oh, Joan"--and
she threw her arms round Joan's neck--"I do love him very dearly!"

"Iss, my dear, I knaws you do," returned Joan soothingly, "and he loves you too."

"Then why can't we always feel the same, Joan, and be comfortable and kind and pleasant to
one another?"

"Oh lors! that 'ud be a reg'lar milk-and-watter set-out o' it. No, so long as you doan't carry
on too far on the wan tack I likes a bit of a breeze now and then: it freshens 'ee up and puts
new life into 'ee. But here, come along down now, and when Adam comes back seem as if nothin'
had happened, and p'r'aps seein' you make so light of it 'ull make un forget all about it."

So advised, Eve dried her eyes and smoothed down her ruffled appearance, and in a short time
joined the party below, which now included Uncle Zebedee, Barnabas Tadd and Zeke Teague, who
had brought word that the Hart had only that morning returned to Fowey, entirely ignorant of
the skirmish which had taken place between the Looe boats and the Lottery, and that, though
it was reported that the man shot had been shot dead, nothing was known for certain, as it
seemed that the men of Looe station were not over-anxious to have the thing talked about.

"I should think they wasn't, neither," chuckled Uncle Zebedee. "Sneakin', cowardly lot! they
was game enough whiles they was creepin' up behind, but, lors! so soon as us shawed our faces,
and they seed they'd got men to dale with, there was another tale to tell, and no mistake.
I much doubt whether or no wan amongst 'em had ever smelt powder afore our Jerrem here let
'em have a sniff o' his mixin'. 'Tis my belief--and I ha'n't a got a doubt on the matter, neither--that
if he hadn't let fly when he did they'd ha' drawed off and gone away boastin' that they'd got
the best o' it."

"Well, and more's the pity you didn't let 'em, then," said Joan. "I would, I knaw. Safe bind's
safe find, and you can never tell when fightin' begins where 'tis goin' to end to."

"It shouldn't ha' ended where it did if I'd had my way," said Jerrem.

"Awh, well! there, never mind," said old Zebedee. "You'll have a chance agen, never fear, and
then we must make 'ee capen. How'd that plaze 'ee, eh?"

Jerrem's face bespoke his satisfaction. "Take care I don't hold 'ee to yer word," he said,
laughing. "I've got witnesses, mind, to prove it: here's Barnabas here, and Zeke Teague, and
they won't say me nay, I'll wager--will 'ee, lads?"

"Wa-all, bide a bit, bide a bit," said Zebedee, winking in appreciation of this joke. "There'll
be two or three o' the oldsters drap in durin' the ebenin', and then us 'll have a bit of a
jaw together on it, and weigh sides on the matter."

As Uncle Zebedee anticipated, the evening brought a goodly number of visitors, who, one after
another, came dropping in until the sitting-room was pretty well filled, and it was as much
as Eve and Joan could manage to see that each one was comfortably seated and provided for.

There were the captains of the three vessels, with a portion of the crew of each, several men
belonging to the place--all more or less mixed up with the ventures--and of course the crew
of the Lottery, by no means yet tired of having their story listened to and their adventure
discussed. Adam's absence was felt to be a great relief, and each one inwardly voted it as
a proof that Adam himself saw that he'd altogether made a missment and gone nigh to damage
the whole concern. Many a jerk of the head or the thumb accompanied a whisper that "he'd a
tooked hisself off," and drew forth the response that "'twas the proper line to pursoo;" and,
feeling they had no fear of interruption, they resigned themselves to enjoyment and settled
down to jollity, in the very midst of which Adam made his appearance. But the time was passed
when his presence or his absence could in any way affect them, and, instead of the uncomfortable
silence which at an earlier stage might have fallen upon the party, his entrance was now only
the occasion of hard hits and rough jokes, which Adam, seeing the influence under which they
were made, tried to bear with all the temper he could command.

"Don't 'ee take no notice of 'em," said Joan, bending over him to set down some fresh glasses.
"They ain't worth yer anger, not one among 'em. I've kept Eve out of it so much as I could,
and after now there won't be no need for her to come in agen; so you go outside there. Her's
a waitin' to have a word with 'ee."

"Then wait she may," said Adam: "I'm goin' to stop where I am.--Here, father," he cried, "pass
the liquor this way. Come, push the grog about. Last come first served, you know."

The heartiness with which this was said caused considerable astonishment.

"Iss, iss, lad," said old Zebedee, his face glowing under the effects of hot punch and the
efforts of hospitality. "That's well said. Set to with a will, and you'll catch us up yet."

During the laughter called forth by this challenge, Joan took another opportunity of speaking.
"Why, what be 'bout, Adam?" she said, seeing how unlike his speech and action were to his usual
self. "Doan't 'ee go and cut off your naws to spite yer face, now. Eve's close by here. Her's
as sorry as anythin', her is: her wouldn't ha' gone out for twenty pounds if her'd knawed it."

"I wish you'd hold yer tongue," said Adam: "I've told you I'm goin' to stop here. Be off with
you, now!"

But Joan, bent on striving to keep him from an excess to which she saw exasperation was goading
him, made one more effort. "Awh, Adam," she said, "do 'ee come now. Eve--"

"Eve be--"

But before the word had well escaped his lips Joan's hand was clapped over his mouth. Too late,
for Eve had come up behind them, and as Adam turned his head to shake Joan off he found himself
face to face before her, and the look of outraged love she fixed upon him made his heart quail
within him. What could he do? what should he say? Nothing now, for before he could gather up
his senses she had passed by him and was gone.

A sickening feeling came over Adam, and he could barely put his lips to the glass which, in
order to avert attention, he had caught up and raised to his mouth. At a blow all the resolutions
he had forced himself to were upset and scattered, for he had returned with the reckless determination
of plunging into whatever dissipation chanced to be going on.

He had roamed about, angry and tormented, until the climax of passion was succeeded by an overpowering
sense of gloom, to get away from which he had determined to abandon himself, and, flinging
all restraint aside, sink down to that level over which the better part of his nature had vainly
tried to soar. But now, in the feeling of degradation which Eve's eyes had flashed upon him,
the grossness of these excesses came freshly before him, and the knowledge that even in thought
he had entertained them made him feel lowered in his own eyes; and if in his eyes, how must
he look in hers?

Without a movement he knew every time that she entered the room: he heard her exchange words
with some of those present, applaud a song of Barnabas Tadd's, answer a question of Uncle Zebedee's,
and, sharpest thorn of all, stand behind Jerrem's chair, talking to him while some of the roughest
hits were being made at his own mistaken judgment in holding back those who were ready to have
"sunk the Looe boats and all aboard 'em."

In the anguish of his heart Adam could have cried aloud. It seemed to him that until now he
had never tasted the bitterness of love nor smarted under the sharp tooth of jealousy. There
were lapses when, sending a covert look across the table, those around him faded away and only
Eve and Jerrem stood before him, and while he gazed a harsh, discordant laugh would break the
spell, and, starting, he would find that it was his own voice which had jarred upon his ear.
His head seemed on fire, his senses confused. Turning his eyes upon the tumbler of grog which
he had poured out, he could hardly credit that it still stood all but untasted before him.
A noisy song with a rollicking chorus was being sung, and for a moment Adam shut his eyes,
trying to recollect himself. All in vain: everything seemed jumbled and mixed together.

Suddenly, in the midst of the clamor, a noise outside was heard. The door was burst violently
open and as violently shut again by Jonathan, who, throwing himself with all his force against
it, cried out, "They'm comin'! they'm after 'ee--close by--the sodjers. You'm trapped!" And,
exhausted and overcome by exertion and excitement, his tall form swayed to and fro, and then
fell back in a death-like swoon upon the floor.

The Author of "Dorothy Fox."

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

A VILLEGGIATURA IN ASISI.

To most travellers a visit to Asisi is a flying visit. They drive over from Perugia or up from
the railway station, and if, besides San Francesco and Santa Chiara, they see the cathedral
and San Damiano, they believe themselves to have exhausted the sights of the town. The beautiful
front of what was once a temple of Minerva can be seen in passing through the piazza in which
it stands: the departing visitors glance back at the city from the plain, and--"Buona notte,
Asisi!"

Yet this town, as well as most Italian paesi, would reward a more lengthened stay, and, unlike
many of them, a refined life is possible here. A person at once studiously and economically
inclined might do much worse than commit himself to spend several months in the city of St.
Francis. We did so last year, on the same principle that made us in childhood prefer the cherries
that the birds had pecked, finding them the sweetest. We had heard Asisi abused: it was out
of the world, it was desperately dull and there was nothing to eat. We therefore sent and engaged
an apartment for the summer, and our confidence was not betrayed.

Perhaps the hotels are not good: we have never tried them. But the market is excellent for
a mountain-city, and in the autumn figs and grapes are cheap and abundant. There are apartments
to be let, and servants to be had who, with a little instruction, soon learn to cook in a civilized
manner.

We have a fancy that there is a different moral atmosphere in a town surrounded by olive trees
and one set in vineyards, the former being more sober and reserved, the latter more joyous
and expansive. The latter may, indeed, carry its spirit too far--like the little city of Zagorolo
near Rome, where the inhabitants are noted at the same time for the strength and excellence
of their wines and for the quarrelsomeness of their dispositions. Palestrina, a little way
off on the hillside, with a flowing skirt of vines all about it, breathes laughter in its very
air. One may sit in Bernardini's--known to all visitors to the city of Fortune--and hear the
travellers who come there laugh over mishaps which they would have growled over anywhere else.
The comparison might be made of many other towns.

Asisi is set in a world of olives. They swing like smoke from a censer all through the corn
and grain of the plain; they roll up the hills and mountains, climbing the almost perpendicular
heights like goats; they crawl through the ravines; they cover the tiny plateaus set between
the crowded hills; and plantations of slim young trees are set through the city, bending like
long feathers and turning a soft silver as the wind passes over them. It is delightful to walk
under the olive trees in early summer, when they hang full of strings of tiny cream-colored
blossoms. In winter these blossoms will have changed to a small black fruit. The trees are
as rugged as the roughest old apple trees, and many of them are supported only on a hollow
half-circle of trunk or on two or three mere sticks. One wonders how these slender fragments
of trunk can support that spreading weight above, especially in wind and tempest, and how that
wealth of blossom and fruit can draw sufficient sustenance through such narrow and splintered
channels; but the olive is tough, and the oil that runs in its veins for blood keeps it ever
vigorous.

True to my fancy--which, indeed, it helped to nourish--Asisi is a serious town. It has even
an air of gentle melancholy, which is not, however, depressing, but which inclines to thoughtfulness
and study. Travellers are familiar with its aspect--the crowning citadel with the ring of green
turf between it and the city, which stretches across the shoulders of the mountain, row above
row of gray houses, with the magnificent pile of the church and convent of St. Francis at its
western extremity, clasped to the steep rock with a hold that an earthquake could scarcely
loosen. Three long streets stretch from east to west, the central one a very respectable street,
clean, well-paved, and delightfully quiet. You may sit in a window there and hear nothing the
livelong day but the drip of a fountain and the screaming of clouds of swallows, which are,
without exception, the most impudent birds that can be imagined. Annoyed one day by the persistent
"peeping" of a swallow that had perched in a nook just outside my window, I leaned out and
frightened him away with my handkerchief. He darted down to a little olive-plantation below,
and a minute after up came a score or two of swallows and began flying round in a circle directly
before my window, screaming like little demons. Now and then one would dart out of the circle
and make a vicious dip toward my face, with the evident wish to peck my eyes out, so that I
was glad to draw back. It reminded me of the famous circular battery which attacked one of
the Confederate forts during our civil war, and it was quite as well managed.

The vetturino whom we took from the station up to the town on our arrival told me, when I gave
my address, that the Sor Filomena had gone away from Asisi, and I had better go to the hotel
Leone. I insisted on being taken to the Sor Filomena's house. He replied that the house was
closed, and renewed his recommendations of the Leone. After the inevitable combat we succeeded
in having ourselves set down at our lodgings, where Sor Filomena's rosy face appeared at the
open door.

"Why did you tell such a lie?" I asked of the unblushing vetturino, using the rough word bugia.

He looked insulted: "I have not told a bugia."

With a philosophical desire for information I repeated the question, using the milder word
mensogna. He drew himself up, looked virtuous and declared that he had not told a mensogna.

"Why, then," I asked, "have you said one thing for another?"

It was just what he wanted. He immediately began a profuse verbal explanation of why one thing
was sometimes better to say than another, why one was truer than another, and so mixed up his
una cosa and un' altra cosa as to put me quite hors de combat, and send me into the house with
the impression that I ought to be ashamed of myself for having told somebody a lie. It brought
to my mind one of my father's favorite quotations: "Some things can be done as well as some
other things."

I was shown to my room, which was rough, as all rooms in Asisi are, but large and high. As
Sor Filomena said, it had un' aria signorile in spite of the coarse brick floor and the ugly
doors and lumpy walls. Some large dauby old paintings gave a color to the dimness, there were
a fine old oak secretary black with age, a real bishop's carved stool with a red cushion laid
on it, and a long window opening on to a view of the wide plain with its circling mountains
and its many cities and paesetti--Perugia shining white from the neighboring hill; Spello and
Spoleto standing out in bold profile in the opposite direction; Montefalco lying like a gray
pile of rocks on a southern hilltop; the village and church of Santa Maria degli Angeli nestled
like a flock of cloves in the plain; and half a dozen others.

I ordered writing-table and chair to be set before the window, and enthroned upon the bishop's
tabouret an unabridged Worcester--this being probably his first visit to Asisi--and I was immediately
at home.

The servant, Maria, whose maternal grandmother was a countess, was making some last arrangements
in the room.

"Come and see what a beautiful new moon there is," I said to her.

She came to the window and looked toward the west. "That isn't the moon: it is a star," she
said, fixing her eyes upon Venus.

It was quite characteristic of her class. They all think forestieri do not know the moon from
a star.

I pointed lower down, to where an ecstatic crescent was melting in the sunset gold.

She gazed at it a moment, then said: "It is beautiful: I never noticed it before. I never look
at the sky except to see what the weather is to be. It is for you signori to look at beautiful
things, not for us poveretti.--Do you see the sky in America?" she asked presently.

I assured her that we do, and that the sun, moon and stars shine in it just as here in Italy.

She was greatly puzzled. "I thought that America was under ground," she said.

I remembered Galileo and held my peace. Besides, in these days of universal knowledge, when
we hear scientific terms lisped by infant lips, it is refreshing to see an example of fine
old-fashioned ignorance. Yet this woman had better manners than are to be found in most drawing-rooms,
a sweet, courteous dignity, and in matters which came within her personal knowledge great good
sense and judgment. Only she had never learned that from the centre of the earth all directions
are up.

Of course a stranger's first visit in Asisi is to the basilica of San Francesco, and, though
I had seen it before, I lost no time in renewing my acquaintance with it. This church is not
only the jewel of Asisi, but one of the most precious of Italy. It is among churches what a
person of genius is in a crowd. The rich marbles one sees elsewhere suggest the mechanic in
their arrangement, and one grows almost tired of them; but here the soul of Art and Faith has
poured itself out, covering all the wide walls, the ceilings, the sides of arches, the ribs
of groinings--every foot of space, in short--with life and color; and how much more precious
is one of those solemn pearly faces than a panel of alabaster or the most cunning mosaic of
marbles! In the upper church alone there are twenty-two large frescoes of Cimabue and thirty
of Giotto. Over these pours the light from fourteen large colored windows, unimpeded by side-aisles.
When the sun beats upon these windows the church seems to be filled with a transparent mist
softly tinted with a thousand rich hues. The deep-blue, star-sown vault sparkles and the figures
on the walls become a vision.

The upper church has been in danger of losing its beautiful choir, a marvel of carving and
intarsio, which Cavalcasella, inspector of fine arts in Italy, removed for the odd reason that
it was a work of the fourteenth century, while the church was of the thirteenth, and to be
in perfect keeping should have a stone choir. I have not learned whether this hyper-purist
will require of the congregation a thirteenth-century costume when the church is again open
for service.

These beautiful stalls, one hundred and two in number, are now placed for safe-keeping in what
was the infirmary of the adjoining college. Possibly, when the work going on pian piano in
the church is completed, they may be restored to their original place. Their sombre richness
would show well in that radiant atmosphere.

The work in the church is, however, well done, and was greatly needed, for those precious frescoes
were gradually going to decay. No touch of pencil is allowed: the work is one of preservation
merely, and is being conducted with the greatest care. The loosened intonaco is found by tapping
lightly on the wall: plaster is then slipped underneath and the painting firmly pressed to
its place. At first gesso was used, but it was found not to answer the purpose. Every smallest
fragment of painting is saved, and the blank spaces are filled in with plaster which is painted
a light gray. This freshens and throws out the adjoining colors.

It is customary to call the lower church "devotional." With many, a dark church is always devotional.
I should rather call it sympathetic. Every sort of mood may here find itself reflected, and
the sinner be as much at home as the saint. Anger and hate may hide as well as devotion: the
artist may dream, the weary may rest, the stupid doze. The only objects which ever seemed to
me utterly incongruous there were a brisk company of hurried tourists, red-covered guidebook
in hand, clattering with sharp-sounding boot-heels up the dim nave and talking with sharp,
loud voices at the very steps of the altar where people were kneeling at the most solemn moment
of the mass. But even these invariably soften their tones and their movements after a while.

This church has always some pleasant surprise for the frequent visitor. The morning light shows
one picture, the evening light another: the sunrise adorns this window, the sunset that. There
is no hour from dawn to dark in which some gem of ancient painting does not look its best,
while little noticed, if seen at all, at other hours. Some are seen by a reflected light; others,
when the church is so dark that one may stumble against a person in the nave, gather to themselves
the dim and scattered rays like an aureole, from which they look out with soft distinctness;
and there are others, again, upon which a sun-ray, finding a narrow passage through arch after
arch, alights with a sudden momentary glory that is almost startling.

It is a fascinating place, that middle church--never light, but always traversed by some varying
illumination which is ever lost in shadows. And in those shadows how much may lurk of present
material beauty and of beautiful memory! Here, before the chapel of St. Louis, Raphael lingered,
learning the frescoed Sibyls of its vault so by heart that he almost reproduced them afterward
in the Pace at Rome--that dear Raphael who did not fear being called a plagiarist, his soul
was so full of beauty, and he so transfigured whatever he touched with that suave pencil of
his that seemed to have been clipped in light for a color. And where did the feet of Michael
Angelo rest when he stood in the transept and praised that Crucifixion painted on the wall?
One might expect that the stones would have been conscious of the Orpheus they supported.

In the college adjoining the church there were a year ago but fifteen monks, and no others
are admitted. When these fifteen shall be dead the convent--Sacro Collegio they call it--will
pass entirely into the hands of the government, which now uses the greater part of it for a
school for the sons of poor teachers, who are sent here from all parts of Italy.

Accompanied by a professor of the college, we went over that part of the building not appropriated
to the monks. It is a little town in itself, and has something of the variety and contrasts
of a town. To go from the vast refectory to that upper part of the building called the Ghetto,
with its interminable low and narrow corridor and lines of little chambers, is to see the two
extremes of which building is capable.

Without intending to write a statistical article, I may give a few of the dimensions we took
note of. The refectory is one hundred and ninety feet long and forty wide, and is capable of
seating at table five hundred persons. The tables run around the room, with a single row of
seats against the wall, and are served from the centre of the hall. Quite across one end extends
a painting of the Last Supper. At one side is a tiny pulpit, from which in the old time one
would read aloud while the monks ate.

The infirmary and rooms used for storing articles in ordinary use occupy twenty large chambers.
The five elementary school-rooms are each fifty feet square, the kitchen is eighty-three feet
square, and the fencing-hall and garden adjoining contain together over sixty-six hundred square
feet. The cistern under the cloister is of nearly the same size.

There is water in profusion--in the court, the kitchen, the boys' wash-rooms, wherever it can
be needed. In the entry from the principal court is an odd fourteenth-century fountain which
is a perfect calendar. It is set against the wall, and is in twelve compartments, answering
to the twelve months of the year. In the frieze above are carved roses, red stone on a white
ground--in some compartments thirty, in others thirty-one, answering to the days of the month.
All the fountains are made of the crimson-and-white stone of Asisi, which is seen everywhere
about the city--in vases for holy water, in pavements, in garden-walls, in the foundations
of houses. The stone, a red sandstone, is found in plenty in the adjoining mountains, and has
a rich, soft crimson hue with irregular lines of white. But it is very hard to work, and could
scarcely be made to pay the expense of the necessary machinery.

"For what I should have to pay for a bath of red marble, about one hundred lire (twenty dollars),"
said the Count B---- to me, "I could buy a bath of Carrara."

"Baths of crimson marble and of Carrara!" I thought, and remembered with an involuntary shudder
my dear native zinc.

But to return to the Sacro Collegio. In one of the immense labyrinthine cellars is a botte
for wine capable of containing five thousand litri. There, it is said--I know not how truly--once
a year, when the botte was emptied, came four of the spiritual fathers of the college above,
with a table and chairs, and played a certain game of cards, which was one of their simple
amusements. Whether this meeting was intended as an exorcism of any evil influences which might
threaten the new must about to be put in, or a mild bacchanalian tribute to the empty space
from which they had drawn so much comfort and cheerfulness during the year, or whether the
wine left some fine perfume behind it which they wished to inhale, tradition saith not. Maybe
the fathers never went there, and the story is merely ben trovato.

In the school of design we admired a copy of some of the carving of the choir of the cathedral
of Asisi. The leaves were remarkably crisp and all the lines full of life. My guide told me
that this choir and the famous one of St. Peter's in Perugia were designed by the same artist,
but that of Perugia was executed by another and more timid hand, while this of Asisi was carved
by the artist himself.

Our last visit in the college was to the grand loggia--finer than anything of the kind I have
seen in Italy except the Loggia del Paradiso of Monte Casino, which is open, while this of
San Francesco is closed. The grandeur of this loggia, with its lofty arches and long perspective,
is in harmony with the magnificence of the view to be seen from it. Seated there, on the stone
divan that runs the whole length of the colonnade, I listened a while to the very interesting
talk of my companion. This gentleman, Professor Cristofani, is said to be one of the most learned
men in Umbria, and has studied so thoroughly his native province as to be an authority on all
that concerns its history and antiquities. A native of Asisi, he has devoted himself especially
to that city, and his Storia di Asisi and Guida di Asisi are monuments of learned and patient
research. He has written also a history of San Damiano which has lately been translated in England.

The government took possession of this church and convent of San Damiano, the first home of
St. Clara and her companions, and proposed establishing there a school of arts and trades;
but Lord Ripon persuaded them to sell the property to him, and in his turn presented it to
the frati from whom it had been taken. It is a rough place, but interesting in memories.

"I have a book in petto," the professor said, "which will, I think, be more valuable and interesting
than the others. I have collected material for a history of the church and convent of St. Francis,
and shall write it as soon as I have time. I should be glad if it could be illustrated."

While he spoke my imagination was already turning over the leaves of a history of that stately
monument, around which clusters so much of Middle-Age story, and looking at copies of forms
and faces which to remember is a dream of rainbows and angels. There should be that quaint
Madonna who points her thumb over her shoulder at St. Francis while she asks her Son to bless
him, and the three saints and the Madonna of the north transept, and the pictures at the entrance
of the chapel of San Martino, and the vault of the chapel of St. Louis, and a thousand other
lovely things.

And, "Signor Professore," I said eagerly, "how I should like to translate that work, pictures
and all, into English!"

He cordially consented, with many compliments.

As we left the loggia he pointed to the arch opposite the entrance-door. "That is the arch
of suicides," he said: "more than one man has thrown himself down that precipice."

We were joined by a Benedictine monk as we went but, who proposed that we should go up the
campanile. It is pleasant to visit the bells of a famous or favorite church. It is like seeing
a poet whose songs we have heard, and pleasanter in some respects; for while the poet may mantle
himself in commonplace at our approach, like Olympus in clouds, one can always waken the spirit
of song in these airy singers.

The way up this campanile is very rough, a mere gravelly path, and one can only maintain his
footing by holding a rope that runs all the way up, following the four sides. Reaching the
large chamber at the top, we paid our respects to the seven bells, whose intricate changes
I had so many times tried to follow. Their ringing is a puzzle. In the middle hung the melancholy
campanone, with a silvery soprano by its side--a very Dante and Beatrice among bells.

We stayed to hear the noon Angelus strike, and while the last stroke was still booming around
the great bell I took a step toward it and stretched my hand out.

I was instantly snatched backward, with a profusion of excuses.

"It is said," the professor explained, "that if a bell be touched, even with the finger-tip,
while ringing, it will instantly break. I do not know if it be true, but it is worth guarding
against."

It was indeed! A fine appetite I should have had for my breakfast, at that moment awaiting
me, if I had had to reflect over it that the great bell of the great basilica of St. Francis
of Asisi had that very morning been cracked into pieces by my fore finger! What visions of
horrified crowds of Asisinati, of black storms of newspaper items, of censuring gossip the
world over, would have come between me and that purple pigeon smothered in rice which Maria
had promised me! The pope himself would have known me individually out of the cloud of his
subjects, and have frowned upon my image. And how it would have been whispered behind me to
the end of my days, "That is the lady who broke the great bell of St. Francis"! But I had not
broken it, and it still hangs sound and strong, to send its melancholy sweet music out to meet
the centuries as they roll in storm and sunshine over the eastern mountains. Let us be thankful
for the evils which might have happened and did not.

I cannot resist the temptation to relate a little incident concerning this same learned Professor
Cristofani, it struck me as so quaint. He is a poor man--literature, and even teaching, do
not pay very well in Italian paesi--and he has a family. Cheaply as servants may be employed,
he could not afford one, and his wife was not very well. Last summer the Alpinisti visited
Asisi, and some of the principal members, having an introduction to him, wished to visit him.
Their stay in Asisi was short, and, being sunrise-and-mountain-top people, they made their
call at six o'clock in the morning on their way to the top of Mount Asio, from which Asisi
takes its name, and, I may here add, the correct spelling of its name, which I have followed.
A servant from the Leone Hotel showed the visitors to the house, and very stupidly knocked
at the kitchen-door. A loud "Avanti!" from within answered the knock. The door was opened by
the guide, revealing a tableau. The professor, with his shirt-sleeves rolled up and an apron
tied on, was earnestly kneading a mass of dough preparatory to sending it to the baker's oven,
where everybody bakes their bread, and his pretty blonde young daughter was making coffee at
the kitchen fire.

"Well, I am a poor man, and my wife was sick," he said afterward, in telling the story, with
a sad smile in his eyes, which are as blue and almost as blind as violets.

These stories awaken a laugh only at the time, but gain a certain sublimity when years have
gilded them--like that one of St. Bonaventura, which this reminds us of: When the two legates
sent by the pope of that time to carry the scarlet beretta of a cardinal to St. Bonaventura
set out in search of him, they were obliged to follow him to a little Franciscan convent at
a short distance from Florence, where he had retired for devotion and to practise for a while
the humble rules of his order. As these two dignified prelates came solemnly around an angle
of the building they glanced through the open kitchen-window, and were astonished to see the
personage they sought engaged in washing the supper-dishes. He accosted them with perfect calmness,
and, learning their errand, requested them to hang the hat in a tree near by till he should
have finished washing the dishes. They complied, and the pots and pans and plates having been
attended to, the whole community adjourned to the chapel and the saint received the dignity
of prince of the Church.

The eight days' festa of Corpus Domini opened in Asisi with one of the most exquisite sights
I have ever seen, the procession of the cathedral as it passed from San Francesco through Via
Superba on its return to the cathedral. We took our places in a window reserved for us, and
waited. There all was quiet and deserted. The air was perfumed by sprigs of green which each
one had strewn before his own house. One living creature alone was visible--a little boy who
knelt in the middle of the street and carefully placed small yellow flowers in the form of
an immense sunflower chalked out on the pavement. Here and there, in some stairway-window,
a shrine had been prepared, with its Madonna, lamp and flowers. It was near noon of a bright
June day, but the houses were so high that the sun struck only on the upper stories of the
north side of the street. All below was in that transparent shadow wherein objects look like
pictures of themselves or like reflections in clear water. The whole street was indeed a picture,
with its gray houses set in irregular lines, and as distinct in character as a line of men
and women would have been. On the building opposite our window was an inscription telling that
Metastasio had lived there--on another a date, 1419.

In 1419, when they piled the stones of that wall, Christopher Columbus was not born, yet the
basilica of St. Francis had been built more than one hundred and fifty years; and on such a
June day as this the Asisinati leaned from their windows to see a Corpus Domini procession
come up the street, just as they were now doing. It came through the fragrant silence and clear
shadow like a vision. I could not restrain an exclamation of surprise and delight, for I had
not dreamed of anything so beautiful. The procession would have been striking anywhere, but
shut in as it was between the soft gray of the opposite stone houses, with the green-sprinkled
street beneath and the glorious blue above, it was as wonderful as if, looking down into clear
deeps of water, one should see the passing of some pageant of an enchanted city buried deep
in the crystalline waves centuries ago. There was nothing here but the procession, leisurely
occupying the whole street, treading out faint odors without raising a particle of dust. The
crowd that in other places always obscures and spoils such a display here followed on behind.
The leisureliness of an Italian religious procession is something delicious, as well as the
way they have of forming hollow squares and leaving the middle of the street sacred to the
grander dignities.

The members of the different societies wore long robes of red, blue or of gray trimmed with
red, and had small three-cornered pieces of the material of the robe suspended by a string
at the back of the neck, to be drawn up over the head if necessary. The arms of the societies
were embroidered on the breast or shoulder, and each one had its great painted banner of Madonna
or saint and a magnificent crucifix with a veil as rich as gold, silver, silk and embroidery
could make it. There were the white camicie half covering the brown robes of long-bearded,
bare-ankled Cappuccini, and sheets of silver and gold in the vestments of the other clergy.

Presently the canopy borne over the Host appeared, with the incense-bearers walking backward
before it and swinging out faint clouds of smoke: the voices of the choir grew audible, singing
the Pange lingua, and everybody knelt. In a few minutes all was over.

There was a fair in connection with this feast, the most notable part of which was dishes of
all sorts set on tables or spread on the grass of the pleasant piazza of St. Peter's, the Benedictine
church, with no roof over but the sky. The brown and yellow-green earthenware for kitchen use
would have delighted any housekeeper. We bought some tiny saucepans with covers, and capable
of holding a small teacupful, for a cent each. Italian housekeepers make great use of earthen
saucepans and jars for cooking. One scarcely ever sees tin--iron almost never. In rich houses
copper is much used, but brown ware is seen everywhere.

The next notable festa, and the great feast of Asisi, is the Pardon, called variously the Pardon
of Asisi, the Pardon of St. Francis and the Porziuncola.

In the old times, and particularly when this indulgence could be obtained only in Asisi, the
concourse of people was so great that there were not roofs to cover them, and many slept in
the open air. But since the favor has been extended to other churches, as well as from other
reasons, the number is greatly diminished, and consists chiefly of people in villeggiatura
near by and of a few hundred Neapolitan peasants, who with undiminished fervor come to obtain
the Pardon, and whose singular performance, called gran ruota (the great wheel), everybody
goes to see.

The Catholic reader will know that this Pardon can be obtained only from vespers of the first
to vespers of the second day of August, and that while in every other church communion is a
necessary condition, it is sufficient to merely pass through the chapel of the Porziuncola,
for which St. Francis obtained the indulgence from Pope Honorius.

There is a large fair in connection with this festa--merchandise of all sorts in the piazza
and corso, and a cattle-fair in the upper part of the town. The long white road stretching
from Asisi to Santa Maria degli Angeli in the plain was quite black with contadini coming up
with their goods in the early dawn, and a sound of hoofs and of many feet told that the procession
was passing the house. There were carts full of produce, men leading white and dove-colored
cattle, and women with large round baskets on their heads. These baskets contained live fowl.
In one a large melancholy turkey meditated on his approaching fate: in another, two of lighter
disposition swung their long necks about and viewed the scene. One of these baskets was as
pretty as the blackbird pie of famous memory. In it sat eight chickens of an age to make their
début on the platter, all settled into a fluffy, soft-gray cushion, out of which their little
heads and necks and half-raised wings peeped and turned and fluttered in a manner that testified
to the agitation of their spirits. The woman carrying this basket would have made a pretty
caryatid, chickens and all, so straight was she, so robust her shoulders and so full and regular
the oval of her face.

The cattle were superb--some immensely large, others delicately small, and all with such long,
slim, pointed horns as made one shrink. Those strong, high-lifted heads carried their weapons
like unsheathed scymitars. Red cords were twined across their foreheads from horn to horn,
and red tassels swung beside their faces. This procession passed in almost entire silence,
with only a pattering of hoofs that sounded like heavy rain.

Presently appeared a light wagon in which sat alone a large fleshy woman, who had quite the
expression of one making a triumphal entry into the city. Her black hair was elaborately dressed
in braids fastened with gold pins and in short curls on the forehead, and was lightly covered
with a black lace veil. Her dress was a sky-blue silk, with a lace shawl carefully draped over
the wide shoulders. Her hands were loaded with rings and her neck with gold chains, and a large
medallion swung over two large brooches. There was a smile of conscious superiority on her
coarsely-handsome face as she glanced over the contadini, who humbly made way for her. A small,
meek, well-dressed man who walked beside the wagon seemed to be the proprietor of its occupant,
and to be somewhat oppressed by his good fortune. There was no room for him in the wagon. It
occurred to me that this might be an avatar of the old woman of Banbury Cross.

The crowd thinned away like rain that from a heavy shower falls only in scattered drops, and
I was about turning from the window when my eyes fell upon a beautiful bit of color across
the way, standing out, as so much Italian color does, against the background of a gray stone
wall. It was an odd, slim cone, something over five feet high, made of grass and clover sprinkled
through with burning poppies. I was just thinking that this verdure must be fastened to a pole
set into the ground when it began to move. The fresh, long grass waved, the poppies glowed
like live coals when blown upon, two slim brown feet and ankles appeared under the green fringe,
and the dimpled elbow of a slim brown arm peeped out above. Nothing else human was visible
as this figure walked away up the street toward the fair. Poor Ruth! She had neither cows,
pigs nor chickens, but she came with such riches as she could glean at the roadside from bountiful
Nature, clothed and covered from the top of her invisible head down to her well-turned ankles
in a garment as fair as fancy could weave.

Later, Count B---- came to take me to the cattle-fair, where we found the upper piazza all
a drift of shaded snow at one side with cows and oxen, and at the other a shining chestnut-color
with horses and donkeys. We walked among these creatures, my companion warding away from me
their long horns and telling me some little items of bovine character which may be known the
world over, but which were new to me. Some cattle are women-haters, he said, and in a country
where women have so much to do with the cattle that was a great defect. The buyer detected
the flaw in this way: he passed his hand slowly down the creature's back from the neck to the
tail: then a woman would do the same. If the animal made any difference between the two or
looked round at the woman, he would not buy. They try them also when they are eating in the
stall. If the animal looks round when it is eating at the person who is approaching, it is
ill-natured.

We went then to see the old theatre, where plays used to be performed on great occasions. It
was a large circle of stone wall, a miniature of the old amphi-theatre of the Roman Forum,
with the sky for a roof. But now a vegetable-garden grows where the spectacle once was seen,
and along the walls where the audience sat and gazed deep-hued wallflowers bloom and delicate
jasmine-vines hang out their white stars.

Farther on is an old city-gate, which, unfortunately, was to be torn down to make way for a
new road. Those gates are veritable pictures, with their beautiful round arches and the niche
with its fresco underneath. This porta preserved perfectly in the crimson stone the smooth
slide down which the suspended gate slipped at night or in times of danger.

Returning through the piazza, I saw the balcony of a public building draped with red satin,
and a flag hung out in it. While this flag was out, Count B---- said, no creature which was
sold could be returned to the seller, no matter what flaw might be discovered in it after the
bargain was concluded. It was then the time to get rid of women-hating cows and oxen and "made-up"
horses.

In the afternoon we went to the church of St. Francis to see the piccola ruota of the Neapolitan
peasants, which is apparently a rehearsal for the gran ruota to be performed in the Porziuncola
the day following. These people were all gone, when we reached the church, to follow a relic-bearing
procession of Franciscans to the little chapel built over the spot where St. Francis was born,
and the spectators took advantage of the opportunity to range themselves about the walls and
wherever they could find places. We were scarcely in the seats offered us in the choir when
a murmur of subdued exclamations, a trampling of many feet and a cloud of dust that filled
the vestibule announced the return of the procession. The gates of the iron grating which shut
off the chancel and transepts from the nave were opened to admit the monks with their relic,
and closed immediately to exclude the crowd. After the short function was ended they were again
opened, and the crowd rushed in and began to run around the altar.

These people were all poor: many were old and had to be held up and helped along by a younger
person at either side. The women wore handkerchiefs on their heads, and many wore those sandals
made of a piece of leather tied up over the foot with strings which give these peasants their
popular name of sciusciari, an imitative word derived from the scuffling sound of the sandals
in walking. They hurried eagerly on, hustling each other, murmuring prayers and ejaculations,
and seemed quite unconscious of the crowd of persons who had come there to stare, perhaps to
laugh, at them. The Asisinati looked on without taking any part, and with a curiosity not unmingled
with contempt. "The Neapolitans are so material!" they say.

These repeated circlings of the altar, I was told, are intended as so many visits, each time
they go round having the value of a visit. Many of these people seek the Pardon not only for
themselves, but for friends who are unable to come. The absent confess and communicate at their
parish church at home, and unite their intention with that of the person who makes the visit
for them.

My padrona di casa told me an anecdote in illustration of this materialism of the Neapolitans,
which the Asisinati are anxious not to be thought to share: On the first of August several
years before, she said, when the church of St. Francis was full of people waiting around the
confessionals, a man at one of them was observed to be disputing with the priest inside. Pressed
so closely as they were, many might excuse themselves for being aware that the penitent was
refusing to agree to the penance imposed by the priest, who consequently declined to give him
absolution. The priest cut the dispute short by closing the wicket and addressing himself to
the penitent at the other side. The man left his place and wandered disconsolately about the
church, followed by many curious eyes, for not to listen in silent submission to the penance
imposed by the priest is a rare scandal. After a while he seemed to have resolved on a compromise,
but it was no longer possible to obtain his place in advance of the crowd, where each one waited
his turn. He took a post, therefore, directly opposite the front of the confessional, as near
as he could get, but with half the width of the nave between, and waited till the priest should
be visible. The moment came when the confessor, turning from one penitent to another, was seen
from the front. The man leaned eagerly forward, and throwing out his right hand with three
fingers extended, as if playing morra, called out, "Quello del casotiello, volete farlo per
tre?" ("You in the confessional there, will you do it for three?") (These peasants call the
confessional casotiello.) Whether the bargain related to a number of prayers to be said, a
number of visits or of masses, does not concern us.

The next afternoon we went down to Santa Maria degli Angeli in the plain, the very penetralia
of the Pardon. Those who have visited this church know that the little chapel of the Porziuncola,
which is enclosed in its midst like the heart in a body, has two doors--one at the lower end,
the other at the upper right corner. It is very dim except when its altar is blazing with candles
and its hanging lamps lighted. As we have already said, a visit to this chapel or merely passing
through it, for a person who has confessed, satisfies the outward conditions of the Pardon.

In the gran ruota which we were about to witness the Neapolitans entered in an unbroken line
at the lower door, passed out without stopping at the upper, ran down the side-aisle of the
church and out of the door, in again at the great door, up the nave, and again through the
chapel, repeating this over and over for fifteen or twenty minutes. While they make the wheel
no one else enters the chapel: all are spectators.

It was for these poor people the supreme moment. They had come from afar at an expense which
they could ill afford; they had endured fatigue, perhaps hunger; and they had been mocked at.
But, so far, they had accomplished their task. They had confessed their sins with all the fervor
and sincerity of which they were capable, had visited the birthplace, the home, the basilica
and the distant mountain-retreat of St. Francis, and they had gathered the miraculous yellow
fennel-flowers of the mountain. Now they were to receive the Pardon. The chains of hell had
fallen from them in confession: at the moment of entering the chapel the bonds of Purgatory
would also be loosened, and if they should drop dead there, or die before having committed
another sin, they would fly straight to heaven as larks into the morning sky. No passing from
a miserable present to a miserable Purgatory, but unimaginable bliss in an instant. Their ideal
bliss might not be the highest which the human mind is capable of conceiving, but it was the
highest that they could conceive, and their souls strained blindly upward to that point where
imagination faints against the thrilling cord with which the body holds the spirit in tether.
To these people heaven was not a mere theological expression, a vague place which might or
might not be: it was as real as the bay and the sky of Naples and the smoking volcano that
nursed for ever their sense of unknown terrors. It was as real as the poppies in their grass
and the oranges ripening on their trees. Maria Santissima, in her white robe and the blue mantle
where they could count the creases, was there, with ever the vision of a Babe in her arms,
and Gesù, the arms of whose cross should fall into folds of a glorious garment about his naked
crucified form, in sleeves to his hands, in folds about his feet and raised into a crown about
his head. Into this blessed company no earthly pain could enter to destroy their delights.
Cold and hunger and the dagger's point could never find them more, nor sickness rack them,
nor betrayal set their blood in a poisoned flame, nor earthquakes chill them with terror. Lying
in that heavenly sunshine, with fruit-laden boughs within reach and heaps of gold beside them
if they should wish for it, they could laugh at Vesuvius licking in vain with its fiery tongue
toward them, and at the black clouds heavy with hail that would spread ruin over the fields
far away from these celestial vineyards and the waving grain of Paradise.

Exalted by such visions, what to them were the gazing crowd and their own rags and squalor?
They entered the Porziuncola singing: they came out at the side-door transfigured, and silent
except for some breathless "Maria!" or "Gesù!" Their arms were thrown upward, their glowing
black eyes were upraised, their thin swarthy faces burned with a vivid scarlet, their white
teeth glittered between the parted lips. Round and round they went like a great water-wheel
that revolves in sun and shadow, and the spray it tossed up as it issued from the Porziuncola
was rapture, the fiery spray of the soul.

At last all remained outside the chapel, making two long lines from either side the door down
the nave to the open air, their faces ever toward the chapel. Then they began to sing in voices
as clear and sweet as a chorus of birds. Not a harsh note was there. They sang some hymn that
had come down to them from other generations as the robins and the bobo-links drop their songs
down to future nestlings, and ever a long-drawn note stretched bright and steady from one stanza
to another. So singing, they stepped slowly backward, always gazing steadily at the lighted
altar of the Porziuncola, visible through the door, and, stepping backward and singing, they
slowly drew themselves out of the church, and the Pardon for them was over.

But though Asisi is not without its notable sights, the chief pleasures there are quiet ones.
A walk down through the olive trees to the dry bed of the torrent Tescio will please one who
is accustomed to rivers which never leave their beds. One strays among the rocks and pebbles
that the rushing waters have brought down from the mountains, and stands dryshod under the
arches of the bridges, with something of the feeling excited by visiting a deserted house;
with the difference that the Undine people are sure to come rushing down from the mountains
again some day. There one searches out charming little nooks which would make the loveliest
of pictures. There was one in the Via del Terz' Ordine which was a sweet bit of color. Two
rows of stone houses facing on other streets turn their backs to this, and shade it to a soft
twilight, till it seems a corridor with a high blue ceiling rather than a street. There it
lies forgotten. No one passes through it or looks into it. In one spot the tall houses are
separated by a rod or so of high garden-wall with an arch in the middle of it, and under the
arch is a door. Over this arch climbs a rose-vine with dropping clusters of tiny pink roses
that lean on the stone, hang down into the shadow or lift and melt into the liquid, dazzling
blue of the sky. Except the roses and the sky all is a gray shadow. It reminds one of some
lovely picture of the Madonna with clustering cherub faces about her head, and you think it
would not be discordant with the scene if a miraculous figure should steal into sight under
that arch. It is one of the charms of Italy that it can always fitly frame whatever picture
your imagination may paint.

One finds a pleasant and cultivated society there too. One of my most highly-esteemed visitors
was the canonico priore of the cathedral, whose father had been an officer in the guard of
the First Napoleon. A pious and dignified elderly man, this prelate is not too grave to be
sometimes amusing as well as instructive. In his youth he had the privilege of being intimate
with Cardinal Mezzofanti, who apparently took a fancy to the young Locatelli--"Tommassino"
he called him, which is a musical way of saying Tommy. At length he offered to give him lessons
in Greek. Full of proud delight at such a privilege, the student went with his books for the
first lesson, and was most kindly received.

"Listen, Tommassino!" the cardinal said, turning over the leaves of a great folio. "Here is
a magnificent passage of St. Chrysostom's;" and he read it out enthusiastically in fine, sonorous
Greek.

"But I do not understand what it means," said the pupil.

"To be sure;" and the savant at once translated the passage into musical Italian, and pointed
out its beauties of thought and expression. And so on, passage after passage, but never a word
of grammar.

Another time it was another of the Fathers or a heathen poet or a chapter from the Bible read,
translated and commented upon; but never from first to last did Tommassino learn to conjugate
a verb or form a sentence from his learned professor.

"Mezzofanti," the prior said, "was as good as he was learned. He lived simply, would not have
been known from a common priest by his dress in the street, and visited the sick like a parish
priest."

Just at the foot of the hill on which Asisi is built a farm-school was established a few years
ago, the first director being the Benedictine abate Lisi, a nobleman by birth and a farmer-monk
by choice. His death a year or two ago was deeply regretted. To this establishment boys are
sent, instead of to prison, after their first conviction for an offence against the law. We
saw this school on a former visit to Asisi, and were much amused to see the tall, raw-boned
abate stride about in his long black robe, which some of his motions threatened to rend from
top to bottom. Clergymen habituated to the wearing of the long robe acquire, little by little,
a restrained step and carriage, somewhat like a woman's, so that in ordinary masculine dress
they may be discovered by their walk: one would say that they walk like women dressed in men's
garments. The free stride in a narrow petticoat is almost comical.

On this occasion we had a new exemplification of the almost incredible riches of Italy, for
the abate Lisi's house was crowded with objects dug up in digging cellars and drains and in
cultivating the farm, though there had been no intention to excavate and the owner was rather
embarrassed than otherwise by the riches he had acquired. Ancient coins of many different nations,
fragments of exquisite architectural carving, statuary and household utensils, loaded shelves,
tables and drawers. Italy would seem to be wrought of such like a coral-reef, down to its very
foundations in the deep.

The abate had no utopian ideas concerning his work, though he heartily devoted his life to
it. "These boys," he said, "will go out contadini--still thieves, if you will--but they will
limit themselves to stealing a third out of their master's portion of the produce."

In Asisi we learned to understand what we may call atmospheric politics, and it confirmed our
former opinion that the Italian people do not care a fig who governs them if only they are
well fed. When they are hungry they rebel, and the only freedom they covet is freedom from
the pangs of hunger. They are equally well pleased with the pope or with "Vittorio," as they
called him, if their simple meal is always within reach; and if on feast-days they can have
a chicken, red wine instead of white, and a dolce, their contentment rises to enthusiasm.

A drought or a destructive rain is therefore to be feared by any government, especially if
there be malcontents to make use of it. There was quite a severe drought in Asisi last summer,
and loud and deep were the imprecations we heard against the government. As the vines withered
and the corn shrank, so withered and shrank the king and his ministers in the esteem of these
poor people. Count Bindangoli told me that they very much feared some democratic demonstration,
and that they were anxiously looking forward to the winter. In vain for weeks we looked over
to Perugia for rain (rain comes to Asisi only from that direction). In vain were prayers in
the churches, processions and promises. We saw the gray showers sail around the horizon, heard
their far-off thunders, saw the lightning zigzag down through the slanting torrents, and almost
saw the hills grow green under them. The only tempests we had were those we saw brooding on
the brows of scowling contadini. They talked openly of a republic, they were sick of the devouring
taxes, they regretted the papacy: there was certainly danger of some "scompiglio," my padrone
di casa assured me.

At length, after long weeks of waiting, Perugia disappeared in a gray deluge: the rain came
marching like an army across the plain toward us; its first scattered drops printed the dust,
its sheets of water drenched the windows, its small torrents rushed down the steep streets.
The mountains grew dim and almost disappeared: we were shut in with hope and a fresh delight.
Then the deluge settled into a gentle rain, under which the grapes swelled out their globes,
the corn rustled with a fuller growth and the hearts of men grew content. The king and his
ministers also budded out into new beauty, and flourished in popular esteem like the green
bay tree, and the republic was quenched--till the next drought.

The Author of "Signor Monaldini's Niece."

HORSE-RACING IN FRANCE,

TWO PAPERS.--I.

The passion for horse-racing, which for more than two centuries has made the sport a national
one in England, cannot be said to exist in France, and the introduction of this "pastime of
princes" into the latter country has been of comparatively recent date. Mention, it is true,
has been found of races on the plain of Les Sablons as early as 1776, and in the next year
a sweepstakes of forty horses, followed by one of as many asses, was run at Fontainebleau in
the presence of the court. But it is not until 1783 that one meets with the semblance of an
organization, and this as a mere caprice of certain grandees, who affected an English style
in everything, and who thought to introduce the customs of the English turf along with the
chapeau Anglais and the riding-coat. It was notably the comte d'Artois (afterward Charles X.),
the duc de Chartres (Philippe Égalité), the marquis de Conflans and the prince de Guéménée
who fancied themselves obliged, in their character of Anglomaniacs, to patronize the race-course;
but the public of that time, to whom this imitation of English manners was not only an absurdity,
but almost a treason against the state, gave but a cold reception to the attempted innovation.
Racing, too, from its very nature, found itself in direct conflict with all the traditions
of the ancient school of equitation, and it encountered from the beginning the severe censure
and opposition of horsemen accustomed to the measured paces of the manége, whose highest art
consisted in consuming a whole hour in achieving at a gallop the length of the terrace of St.
Germain. The professors of this equestrian minuet, as solemn and formal in the saddle as was
the dancer Dupré in the ballets of the period, predicted the speedy decay of the old system
of horsemanship and the extinction of the native breed of horses if France should allow her
soil to be invaded by foreign thoroughbreds with their English jockeys and trainers. The first
French sportsmen--to use the word in its limited sense--thus found themselves not only unsupported
by public opinion, but alone in the midst of an actively-hostile community, and no one can
say how the unequal contest might have ended had not the graver events of the Revolution intervened
to put an end, for a time at least, not only to the luxurious pleasures, but to all the hopes
and ambitions, of the noble class of idlers.

The wars with England that followed retarded for a quarter of a century the introduction of
racing into France. The first ministerial ordinance in which the words pur sang occur is that
of the 3d of March, 1833, signed by Louis Philippe and countersigned by Adolphe Thiers, establishing
a register of the thoroughbreds existing in France--in other words, a national stud-book, by
which name it is universally known. The following year witnessed the foundation of the celebrated
Society for the Encouragement of the Improvement of Breeds of French Horses, more easily recognized
under the familiar title of the "Jockey Club." The first report of this society exposed the
deplorable condition of all the races of horses in the country, exhausted as they had been
by the frightful draughts made upon them in the imperial wars, and concluded by urging the
necessity of the creation of a pure native stock, of which the best individuals, to be selected
by trial of their qualities of speed and endurance upon the track, should be devoted to reproduction.
This was the doctrine which had been practically applied in England, and which had there produced
in less than a century the most important and valuable results. France had but to follow the
example of her neighbor, and, borrowing from the English stock of thoroughbreds, to establish
a regular system of races as the means of developing and improving the breed of horses upon
her own soil.

This reasoning seemed logical enough, but the administration of the Haras, or breeding-stables--which
is in France a branch of the civil service--opposed this innovation, and contended that the
only pure type of horse was the primitive Arab, and that every departure from this resulted
in the production of an animal more or less degenerate and debased. The reply of the Jockey
Club was, that the English thoroughbred is, in fact, nothing else than a pure Arab, modified
only by the influences of climate and treatment, and that it would be much wiser and easier
to profit by a result already obtained than to undertake to retrace, with all its difficulties
and delays, the same road that England had taken a century to travel.

The experience gained since 1833 has shown that the conclusions of the Jockey Club were right,
but the evidence of facts and of the results obtained has not yet brought the discussion to
a close. The administration of the Haras still keeps up its opposition to the raising of thoroughbreds,
and will no doubt continue to do so for some time to come, so tenacious is the hold of routine--or,
as the Englishman might say, of red tape--upon the official mind in France, whether the question
be one of finance, of war or of the breeding of horses.

But it is not only against the ill-will of the administration that the Jockey Club has had
to struggle during all these years: it has had also to contend with the still more disheartening
indifference of the public in the matter of racing. There is no disputing the fact that the
genuine lover of the horse, the homme de cheval--or, if I may be forgiven a bit of slang for
the sake of its expressiveness, the horsey man, whether he be coachman or groom, jockey or
trainer--is not in France a genuine product of the soil, as he seems to be in England. Look
at the difference between the cabman of London and his brother of Paris, if there be enough
affinity between them to justify this term of relationship. The one drives his horse, the other
seems to be driven by his. In London the driver of an omnibus has the air of a gentleman managing
a four-in-hand: in Paris the imbecile who holds the reins looks like a workman who has been
hired by the day to do a job that he doesn't understand. So pronounced is this antipathy--for
it is more than indifference--of the genuine man of the people toward all things pertaining
to the horse that, notwithstanding all the encouragements that for nearly half a century have
been lavishly offered for the purpose of developing a public taste in this direction, not a
single jockey or trainer who can properly be called a Frenchman has thus far made his appearance.
All the men and boys employed in the racing-stables are of English origin, though many, perhaps
most, of them have been born in France; but the purity of their English blood, so important
in their profession, is as jealously preserved by consanguineous marriages as is that of the
noble animals in their charge. It was an absolute necessity for the early turfmen of France
to import the Anglo-Saxon man with the Anglo-Arabian horse if they would bring to a creditable
conclusion the programme of 1833. And during all the long period that has since elapsed what
courage and patience, what determined will, to say nothing of the prodigious expenditure of
money, have been shown by the founders of the race-course in France and by their successors!
Their perseverance has had its reward, indeed, in the brilliancy of the results obtained, but
there is still due to them an ampler tribute of recognition than they have yet received, and
it will be a grateful duty to dwell for a while upon the history of the Jockey Club.

Of its fourteen original members but two survive, the duc de Nemours and M. Ernest Leroy. The
other twelve were His Royal Highness the duc d'Orléans, M. Rieussec, who was killed by the
infernal machine of Fieschi, the comte de Cambis, equerry to the duc d'Orléans, Count Demidoff,
Fasquel, the chevalier de Machado, the prince de la Moskowa, M. de Normandie, Lord Henry Seymour,
Achille Delamarre, Charles Lafitte and Caccia. To these fourteen gentlemen were soon added
others of the highest rank or of the first position in the aristocratic world of Paris. People
began to talk with bated breath of the Jockey Club and of its doings, and strange stories were
whispered of the habits of some of its distinguished members. The eccentricities of Count Demidoff
and of Major Frazer, the obstreperous fooleries of Lord Henry Seymour, the studied extravagances
of Comte d'Alton-Shee, created in the public mind the impression that the club was nothing
less than a sort of infernal pit, peopled by wicked dandies like Balzac's De Marsay, Maxime
de Trailles, Rastignac, etc. Even the box of the club at the opera was dubbed with the uncanny
nickname loge infernale, and the talk of the town ran upon the frightful sums lost and won
every night at the tables of the exclusive cercle, while the nocturnal passer-by pointed with
a shudder to the windows of the first floor at the corner of the Rue de Grammont and the Boulevard,
glimmering until morning dawn with a light altogether satanic. The truth must be confessed
that jeunesse dorée of the period affected a style somewhat "loud." There was exaggeration
in everything--in literature--for it was the epoch of the great romantic impulse--in art, in
politics: what wonder, then, that the distractions of high life should over-pass the boundaries
of good taste, and even of propriety? The Jockey Club in the time of Louis Philippe did but
recall the good old days of Brookes's and of White's, of the two Foxes, of George Selwyn and
of Sheridan. But how changed is all this! There is not to-day in Paris, perhaps in the world,
a more sedate, reputable and in every sense temperate club than the "Jockey." It concerns itself
only with racing, the legitimate object of its foundation, and nothing else is discussed in
its salons, if we except one room, which under the Empire was baptized "The Camp of Châlons,"
for the reason that it had come to be reserved for the use of the old soldiers, who met there
to talk over incidents of army life. Baccarat, that scourge of Parisian clubs, is forbidden,
and lovers of play are obliged to content themselves with a harmless rubber of whist. As one
black ball in six is sufficient to exclude a candidate--or, to use the official euphemism,
to cause his "postponement"--it is not difficult for the coterie that controls the club to
keep it clear of all noisy, or even of merely too conspicuous, individuality. Lord Henry Seymour
would be "pilled" to-day by a probably unanimous vote. A candidate may enjoy all the advantages
of wealth and position, he may have the entrée to all the salons, and may even be a member
of clubs as exclusive as the Union and the Pommes-de-Terre, and yet he may find himself unable
to gain admission to the Jockey. Any excess of notoriety, any marked personal eccentricity,
would surely place him under the ban. Scions of ancient families, who have had the wisdom to
spend in the country and with their parents the three or four years succeeding their college
life, would have a much better chance of admission than a leader of fashion such as I have
described. The illustrious General de Charette; M. Soubeyran, at that time governor of the
Crédit foncier of France; the young Henry Say, brother-in-law of the prince A. de Broglie,
rich and accomplished, and the owner, moreover, of a fine racing-stable; together with many
other gentlemen whose private lives were above suspicion,--have been blackballed for the simple
reason that they were too widely known. As to foreigners, let them avoid the mortification
of certain defeat by abstaining from offering themselves, unless indeed they should happen
to be the possessors of a great historic name or should occupy in their own country a position
out of the reach of ordinary mortals. This careful exclusion of all originality and diversity
has, by degrees, communicated to the club a complexion somewhat negative and colorless, but
at the same time, it must be admitted, of the most perfect distinction. The most influential
members, although generally very wealthy, live in Paris with but few of the external signs
of luxury, and devote their incomes to home comforts and to the improvement of their estates.
If one should happen to meet on the Champs Élysées a mail-coach or a daumont [an open carriage,
the French name of which has been adopted by the English, like landau, etc. It is drawn by
two horses driven abreast, and each mounted by a postilion. The nearest English equivalent
is a "victoria."] that makes the promenaders turn and look back, or if there be an avant-scène
at the Variétés or the Palais Royal that serves as a point of attraction for all the lorgnettes
of the theatre, one may be quite sure that the owners of these brilliant turnouts and the occupants
of this envied box are not members of the club--"the Club," par excellence, for thus is it
spoken of in Paris. It is considered quite correct at the club to devote one's self to the
raising of cattle and sheep, as the comtes de Bouvillé, de Béhague, de Hauteserre and others
have done with such success, and one may even follow the example of the comte de Falloux, the
eloquent Academician, in emblazoning with one's arms a pen of fat pigs at a competitive show,
without in the least derogating from one's dignity. One may also sell the wine from one's vineyards
and the iron from one's furnaces--for the iron industry is in France looked upon as a sort
of heritage of the nobility--but to get money by any other means than those I have indicated
would be considered in the worst possible taste. On the other hand, it is permitted to any
member of the club to lose as much money as he pleases without loss of the respect of his fellows,
and the surest way to arrive at this result is to undertake the breeding and running of horses.
In short, the club seems to have adopted for its motto Sancta simplicitas, and the descendants
of the old nobility of France, excluded as they practically are to-day from all public employment
save that of the army, seem determined to live amongst themselves, in tranquillity and retirement,
in such a way as to attract the least possible notice from the press or from the crowd. Their
portraits never find their way into the illustrated papers, and no penny-a-liner ventures to
make them the subject of a biographical sketch: indeed, any one rash enough to seek to tread
upon this forbidden ground would find himself met at the threshold by a dignified but very
decided refusal of all information and material necessary to his undertaking.

As an illustration of the care taken by the ruling spirits of the club to preserve the attitude
which they have assumed toward the public, it may be worth mentioning that Isabelle, who for
a long time enjoyed the distinction of serving the club as its accredited flower-girl, and
who in that capacity used to hold herself in readiness every evening in her velvet tub at the
foot of the staircase of the splendid apartments at the corner of the Boulevard and the Rue
Scribe--the present location of the club--was dismissed for no other reason than that she had
become too extensively known to the gay world of Paris. Excluded from the sacred paddock on
the race-course, she is to-day compelled to content herself on great occasions with selling
her flowers on the public turf from a pretty basket-wagon drawn by a pair of coquettish black
ponies, or "toy" ponies in the language of the day.

Notwithstanding the magnificence of the present quarters of the club to which I have referred,
one cannot help regretting that, unlike the Agricultural Society and the Club of the Champs
Élysés, it is obliged to confine itself to one story of the building--the first floor, according
to continental enumeration--though the rental of this floor alone amounts to some three hundred
thousand francs a year.

The committee on races, composed of fifteen members (founders) and fifteen associate members--the
latter elected every year by the founders--represents the club in all that concerns its finances
and property, votes the budget, the programme of all races and the conditions of the prizes,
and not only legislates in making the laws that govern the course, but acts also as judge in
deciding questions that may arise under the code that it has established. And as a legislative
body it has its hands almost as full as that of the state, for the budget of the society grows
from year to year as rapidly as the nation's, and there are now forty-nine turfs for which
it is responsible or to which it has extended its protection. The presidency of the committee,
after having been held for many years by the lamented Vicomte Daru, passed on his death last
year to M. Auguste Lupin, the oldest proprietor of race-horses in France. To M. Lupin, moreover,
belongs the honor of being the first breeder in France who has beaten the English in their
own country by gaining the Goodwood Cup in 1855 with Jouvence--success that was renewed by
his horse Dollar in 1864. M. Lupin, who had six times won the Jockey Club Purse (the French
Derby) and twice the Grand Prix de Paris, occupies very much the same position in France that
Lord Falmouth holds in England, and, like him, he never bets. His colors, black jacket and
red cap, are exceedingly popular, and received even more than their wonted share of applause
in the year 1875, the most brilliant season in the history of his stables, when he carried
off all the best prizes with St. Cyr, Salvator and Almanza. His stud, which has numbered amongst
its stallions the Baron, Dollar and the Flying Dutchman, is at Vaucresson, near Versailles.
His training-stables are at La Croix, St. Ouen.

Of the remaining members of the committee on races, the best known are the prince de la Moskowa,
the comte A. de Noailles, Henry Delamarre, Comte Frédéric de Lagrange, Comte A. des Cars, J.
Mackenzie-Grieves, Comte H. de Turtot, the duc de Fitz-James, Baron Shickler, the prince A.
d'Aremberg, Prince Joachim Murat, Comte Roederer, the marquis de Lauriston, Baron Gustave de
Rothschild, E. Fould and the comtes de St. Sauveur, de Kergorlay and de Juigné. Most of these
gentlemen run their horses, or have done so, and the list will be found to comprise, with two
or three exceptions, the principal turfmen of France. The comte de Juigné and the prince d'Aremberg,
both very rich, and much liked in Paris, have formed a partnership in turf matters, and the
colors they have adopted, yellow and red stripes for the jacket, with black cap, are always
warmly welcomed. In 1873, with Montargis, they won the Cambridgeshire Stakes, which were last
year carried off by the American horse Parole, and in 1877 they renewed the exploit with Jongleur.
The count, on this latter occasion, had taken no pains to conceal the merits of his horse,
but, on the contrary, had spoken openly of what he believed to be his chances, and had even
advised the betting public to risk their money upon him. As the English were giving forty to
one against him, the consequence of M. de Juigné's friendly counsel was that the morning after
the race saw a perfect shower of gold descending upon Paris, the English guineas falling even
into the white caps held out with eager hands by the scullions of the cafés that line the Boulevard.
One well-known restaurateur, Catelain, of the Restaurant Helder on the Boulevard des Italiens,
pocketed a million of francs, and testified his satisfaction, if not his gratitude, by forthwith
baptizing a new dish with the name of the winning horse. The comte de Juigné himself cleared
three millions, and many members of the club were made the richer by sums ranging from one
hundred to one hundred and fifty thousand francs. The marquis de Castellane, an habitual gambler,
who happened to have put only a couple of hundred louis on the horse, could not hide his chagrin
that his venture had returned him but a hundred and sixty thousand francs. Jongleur won the
French Derby (one hundred and three thousand francs) in 1877, besides thirteen other important
races. He was unfortunately killed while galloping in his paddock in September, 1878.

The Scotch jacket and white cap of the duc de Fitz-James, owner of the fine La Sorie stud,
and the same colors, worn by the jockeys of the duc de Fézenzac, have won but few of the prizes
of the turf, and another nobleman, the comte de Berteux (green jacket, red cap) is noted for
the incredible persistency of his bad luck. M. Édouard Fould, whose mount is known by the jackets
hooped with yellow and black and caps of the latter color, is the proprietor of the well-known
D'Ibos stud at the foot of the Pyrenees, one of the largest and best-ordered establishments
of the kind in France; and it is to him and to his uncle, the late Achille Fould, that the
South owes in a great degree the breeding and development of the thoroughbred horse. M. Delâtre
(green jacket and cap) raises every year, at La Celle St. Cloud, some twenty yearlings, of
which he keeps but three or four, selling the rest at Tattersall's, Rue Beaujon, to the highest
bidder. They generally bring about six thousand francs a head, on an average.

The feeling against Germany after the war led to a proposition to expel from the club all members
belonging to that country; and it was only the liking and sympathy felt for one of them, Baron
Schickler, a very wealthy lover of the turf and for a long time resident in France, which caused
a rejection of the motion. Baron Schickler, however, has nominally retired from the turf since
1870, and his horses are now run under the pseudonyme of Davis. His colors are white for the
jacket, with red sleeves and cherry cap. Another member, Mr. A. de Montgomery, the excellent
Norman breeder and the fortunate owner of La Toucques and of Fervaques, has also given up racing
under his own name, and devotes himself exclusively to the oversight of the Rothschild stables.
The good-fortune which the mere possession of this distinguished name would seem sufficient
to ensure has not followed the colors of Baron Gustave de Rothschild in the racing field, where
his blue jackets and yellow caps have not been the first to reach the winning-post in the contests
for the most important prizes. He buys, nevertheless, the best mares and the finest stallions,
and he has to-day, in his excellent stud at Meautry, the illustrious Boïard, who had won, before
he came into the baron's possession, the Ascot Cup of 1873 and the Grand Prix de Paris. The
Rothschild training-stables are at Chantilly. Boïard, as well as Vermont, another of the grandest
horses ever foaled in France, and a winner also of the Grand Prix de Paris, was formerly in
possession of M. Henry Delamarre, who in the days of the Empire enjoyed a short period of most
remarkable success, having won the French Derby no less than three times within four years.
His choice of colors was a maroon jacket with red sleeves and black cap. He had some lesser
triumphs last year, at the autumn meeting in the Bois de Boulogne, where his mare Reine Claude
won the Prix du Moulin by two lengths, his horse Vicomte, who up to that time had been running
so badly, taking the Prix d'Automne, while the second prize of the same name was carried off
by Clélié, thus gaining for the Delamarre stables three races out of the five contested on
that day. All M. Delamarre's horses come from the Bois-Roussel stud, belonging to Comte Roederer.

There remain to be mentioned, amongst the number of gentlemen who are in the habit of entering
their horses for races in France, a Belgian, the comte de Meeüs, one of whose horses was the
favorite in the race last mentioned, and though beaten, as often happens with favorites, he
and other animals from the same stables have this year carried away several of the provincial
prizes; M.L. André, owner of this season's winners of the steeple-chase handicap known as the
Prix de Pontoise and of several hurdle-races; M.A. de Borda, who was unsuccessful in the present
year in three at least of the races in which he had entered; M.E. de la Charme, who in June,
1879, took the Grand Prix du Conseil-Général (handicap) at Lyons, and in September won at Vincennes
the hurdle-race Prix de Charenton; the marquis de Caumont-Laforce, whose colors were first
this summer at Moulins in the Prix du Conseil-Général, and in the third Criterium at Fontainebleau,
as well as in the grand handicap at Beauvais last July; M.P. Aumont, who has been not without
some good luck in the provinces during the past season; M. Moreau-Chaslon, whose successes
of late have hardly been in proportion to his numerous entries, though he won the last Prix
des Villas at Vésinet, the Prix du Jockey Club (three thousand francs) at Châlons-sur-Saône
and the Prix du Mont-Valérien at the Bois de Boulogne; and, to bring to an end our long list
of devotees of the turf, we add the name of M. Ephrussi, who, amongst the numerous races in
which he has entered horses in 1879, has been victorious in not a few--for instance, in the
steeple-chase handicap at La Marche, called the Prix de Clairefontaine, in L'Express at Fontainebleau,
in the Prix de Neuilly at the Bois de Boulogne, and in the handicap for the Prix des Écuries
at Chantilly, as well as in a race for gentlemen riders only at Maison-Lafitte. Besides these
and others, he gained last August the Jockey Club Prize (five thousand francs) at Châlons-sur-Saône,
the Prix de Louray at Déauville for the like amount, another of the same figures at Vichy,
and the six thousand francs of the Grand Prix du Havre. Most of the gentlemen last named are
the owners of a comparatively small number of horses, which are, perhaps without exception,
entrusted to the care of the famous trainer Henry Jennings of La Croix, St. Ouen, near Compiègne.

Henry Jennings is a character. His low, broad-brimmed beaver--which has gained him the sobriquet
of "Old Hat"--pulled well down over a square-built head, the old-fashioned high cravat in which
his neck is buried to the ears, the big shoes ensconced in clumsy gaiters, give him more the
air of a Yorkshire gentleman-farmer of the old school than of a man whose home since his earliest
youth has been in France. He is one of the most original figures in the motley scene as he
goes his rounds in the paddock, mysterious and knowing, very sparing of his words, and responding
only in monosyllables even to the questions of his patrons, while he whispers in the ears of
his jockeys the final instructions which many an interested spectator would give something
to hear. Beginning his career in the service of the prince de Beauvan, from which he passed
first to that of the duc de Morny and afterward to that of the comte de Lagrange, he is now
a public trainer upon his own account, with more than a hundred horses under his care. No one
has devoted more intelligent study to the education of the racer or shown a more intuitive
knowledge of his nature and of his needs. It was he who first threw off the shackles of ancient
custom by which a horse during the period of training was kept in such an unnatural condition,
by means of drugs and sweatings, that at the end of his term of probation he was a pitiful
object to behold. The pictures and engravings of twenty years ago bear witness to the degree
of "wasting" to which a horse was reduced on the eve of a race, and the caricatures of the
period are hardly over-drawn when they exhibit to us the ghost of an animal mounted by a phantom
jockey. When people saw that Jennings was able to bring to the winning-post horses in good
condition, whose training had been based upon nothing but regular work, they at first looked
on in astonishment, but afterward found their profit in imitating his example. Under this rational
system it has been proved that the animal gains in power and endurance while he loses nothing
in speed. The same intrepid trainer has ventured upon another innovation. Impressed with the
inconveniences of shoeing, and annoyed by the difficulty of finding a skilful smith in moving
from one place to another in the country, he conceived the idea of letting his horses go shoeless,
both during training and on the track; and, despite all that could be urged against the practice
his horses' feet are in excellent condition. His many successes on the turf have not, however,
been crowned, as yet, by the Grand Prix de Paris, though in 1877 he thought to realize the
dream of his ambition with Jongleur, whom he had trained and whom he loved like a son; and
when the noble horse was beaten by an outsider, St Christopher, "Old Hat" could not control
an exhibition of ill-humor as amusing as it was touching. When Jongleur died Jennings wept
for perhaps the first time in his life, and he was still unable to restrain his tears when
he described the tortures of the poor beast as he struck his head against the sides of his
box in the agonies of lockjaw.

Let us close our list--in which, however, we have endeavored to enumerate only the principal
figures upon the French turf--with two names; and first that of the young Edmond Blanc, heir
to the immense fortune gained by his late father as director of the famous gaming-tables of
Monaco. The latter, like a prudent parent, forbade his son to race or to play, and Edmond,
obeying the letter of the law--at least during the lifetime of his father--was known, if known
at all upon the course, under the pseudonyme of James. At present, however, he is the owner
of an important stud and stable which are constantly increasing, and which bid fair before
long to take rank amongst the principal establishments in the country. Waggish tongues have
whispered that when he had to make choice of colors he naturally inclined to "rouge et noir,"
but finding these already appropriated by M. Lupin, the representative of "trente et quarante"
was forced to content himself with tints more brilliant perhaps, but less suggestive. But let
him laugh who wins. The annals of the turf for 1879 inscribe the name of M. Blanc as winner
of the Grand Prix de Paris. It was his mare, Nubienne, who first reached the winning-post by
a neck in a field of eleven horses, M. Fould's Saltéador being second, with barely a head between
him and the third, Flavio II., belonging to the comte Frédéric de Lagrange.

This latter proprietor, the most celebrated of all--in the sense of being the most widely known
and the most talked about--I have reserved for the end of my catalogue. Comte de Lagrange made
his début upon the turf in the year 1857, now more than twenty years ago, by buying outright
the great stable of M. Alexander Aumont, which boasted at that time amongst its distinguished
ornaments the famous Monarque, who had, before passing into the hands of his new owner, gained
eight races in eight run, and who, under the colors of the comte, almost repeated the feat
by winning eight in nine; and of these two were the Goodwood Cup and the Newmarket Handicap.
Afterward, at the Dangu stud, he achieved a fame of another sort, but in the eyes of horsemen
perhaps still more important. Never has sire transmitted to his colts his own best qualities
with such certainty and regularity. Hospodar, Le Mandarin, Trocadéro were amongst his invaluable
gifts to the comte, but his crowning glory is the paternity of the illustrious Gladiateur,
the Eclipse of modern times. Gladiateur, said the baron d'Étreilly, recalls Monarque as one
hundred recalls ten. There were the very same lines, the same length of clean muscular neck
well set on the same deep and grandly-placed shoulders, the same arching of the loins, the
same contour of hips and quarters, but all in proportions so colossal that every one who saw
him, no matter how indifferent to horseflesh in general, remained transfixed in admiration
of a living machine of such gigantic power.

The first appearance of Gladiateur upon the race-course was at the Newmarket autumn meeting
of 1864, where he won the Clearwell Stakes, beating a field of twelve horses. He was kept sufficiently
"shady," however, during the winter to enable his owner to make some advantageous bets upon
him, though it required careful management to conceal his extraordinary powers. His training
remains a legend in the annals of the stables of Royal-Lieu, where the jockeys will tell you
how he completely knocked all the other horses out of time, and how two or three of the very
best put in relay to wait upon him were not enough to cover the distance. Fille-de-l'Air herself
had to be sacrificed, and it was in one of these terrible gallops that she finished her career
as a runner. Mandarin alone stood out, but even he, they say, showed such mortal terror of
the trial that when he was led out to accompany his redoubtable brother he trembled from head
to foot, bathed in sweat. In 1865, Gladiateur gained the two thousand guineas and the Derby
at Epsom, and for the first time the blue ribbon was borne away from the English. "When Gladiateur
runs," said the English papers at this time, "the other horses hardly seem to move." The next
month he ran for the Grand Prix de Paris. His jockey, Harry Grimshaw, had the coquetry to keep
him in the rear of the field almost to the end, as if he were taking a gallop for exercise,
and when Vertugadin reached the last turn the favorite, some eight lengths behind, seemed to
have forgotten that he was in the race at all. The public had made up its mind that it had
been cheated, when all at once the great horse, coming up with a rush, passed all his rivals
at a bound, to resume at their head his former easy and tranquil pace. There had not been even
a contest: Gladiateur had merely put himself on his legs, and all had been said. These three
victories brought in to Comte de Lagrange the sum of four hundred and forty-one thousand seven
hundred and twenty-five francs, to say nothing of the bets. Gladiateur afterward won the race
of six thousand mètres (two miles fourteen furlongs) which now bears his name, and also the
Great St. Leger at Doncaster. He was beaten but once--in the Cambridgeshire, where he was weighted
at a positively absurd figure, and when, moreover, the track was excessively heavy. After his
retirement from the turf he was sold in 1871 for breeding purposes in England for two hundred
thousand francs, and died in 1876.

Like M. Fould and several other brethren of the turf, Comte de Lagrange felt the discouragements
of the Franco-German war, and sold all his horses to M. Lefèvre. Fortunately, however, he had
retained in his stud at Dangu a splendid lot of breeding-mares, and with these he has since
been able to reconstruct a stable of the first order, though the effort has cost him a very
considerable sum. Indeed, he himself admits that to cover expenses he would have to make as
much as thirty thousand pounds every year. Four times victorious in the French Derby before
1870, he has since repeated this success for two successive years--in 1878 with Insulaire,
and in 1879 with Zut. His colors (blue jacket with red sleeves and a red cap) are as well known
in England as in his own country. Within the last six years he has three times won the Oaks
at Epsom with Regalia, Reine and Camelia, the Goodwood Cup with Flageolet, the two thousand
guineas and the Middlepark and Dewhurst Plates with Chamant. On the 12th of June, last year,
at Ascot, he gained two races out of three, and in the third one of his horses came in second.

But the count is by no means always a winner, nor does he always win with the horse that, by
all signs, ought to be the victor. He has somehow acquired, whether justly or not, the reputation
of being a "knowing hand" upon the turf, and all turfmen will understand what is implied in
the term, whether of good or of evil. His stable has been called a "surprise-box," which simply
means that the "horse carrying the first colors does not always carry the money;" that people
who think they know the merits of his horses frequently lose a good deal by the unexpected
turn of affairs upon the track; and that the count, in short, manages to take care of himself
in exercising the undoubted right of an owner, as by rule established, to win if he can with
any one of the horses that he may have running together for any given event. Nothing dishonorable,
according to the laws of the turf, has ever been proved, nor perhaps even been charged, against
him; but as one of his countrymen, from whom I have just now quoted, remarks, "He is fond of
showing to demonstration that a man does not keep two hundred horses in training just to amuse
the gallery."

These repeated triumphs, as well as the not less frequent ones of MM. Lefèvre, Lupin and de
Juigné, have naturally set the English a-thinking. They have to admit that the time has passed
when their handicappers could contemptuously give a French horse weights in his favor, and
a party headed by Lords Falmouth, Hardwicke and Vivian and Sir John Astley of the London Jockey
Club has been formed with the object of bringing about some modifications of the international
code.

A war of words has ensued between Admiral Rous and Viscount Daru, the respective presidents
of the two societies, in the course of which the admiral has urged that as English horses are
admitted to only two races in France, the Grand Prix de Paris and the D[/e]auville Cup, while
French horses are at liberty to enter upon any course in England, it is quite time that a reciprocity
of privileges were recognized, and that racers be put upon an equal footing in the two countries.
Not at all, replies M. Daru; and for this reason: there are three times as many race-horses
in England as in France, and the small number of the latter would bring down the value of the
French prizes to next to nothing if the stakes are based, as they are in England, upon the
sum-total of the entries. In France the government, the encouragement societies, the towns,
the railway companies, all have to help to make up the purses, and often with very considerable
sums. Would it be fair to let in English horses in the proportion of, say, three to one--supposing
the value of the horses to be equal--to carry off two-thirds of these subscriptions? To this
the Englishman answers, not without a show of reason, that if the foreign horses should come
into France in any great numbers this very circumstance would make the entrance-moneys a sufficient
remuneration to the winner, and that the government, the Jockey Club and the rest would be
relieved from a continuance of their subventions. The discussion is still kept up, and it is
not unlikely that the successors of MM. Rous and Daru will keep on exchanging notes for some
years without coming nearer to a solution than the diplomats have come to a settlement of the
Eastern Question.

I have said that the Jockey Club of Paris grants subventions to the racing societies of the
provinces, which it takes under its patronage to the number of about forty-five, but it undertakes
the actual direction of the races at only three places--namely, Chantilly, Fontainebleau and
Déauville-sur-Mer--besides those of Paris. Up to 1856, the Paris races were run on the Champ
de Mars, where the track was too hard and the turns were very sharp and awkward. In the last-mentioned
year the city ceded to the Société d'Encouragement the open field at Longchamps, lying between
the western limit of the Bois de Boulogne and the river Seine. The ground measures about sixty-six
hectares in superficial area, and this ample space has permitted the laying out of several
tracks of different lengths and of varying form, and has avoided any necessity for sharp turns.
The whole race-course is well sodded, and the ground is as good as artificially-made ground
can be. It is kept up and improved by yearly outlays, and these very considerable expenses
are confided to Mr. J. Mackenzie-Grieves, so well known for his horsemanship to all the promenaders
of the Bois.

The race-course at Longchamps enjoys advantages of situation and surroundings superior, beyond
all question, to those of any other in the world. The approaches to it from Paris are by an
uninterrupted succession of the most charming drives--the Champs Élysées, the grand avenue
of the Bois de Boulogne, and finally through the lovely shaded alleys of the Bois. Arrived
at the Cascade, made famous by the attempt of Berezowski upon the life of the czar in 1867,
the eye takes in at a glance the whole of the vast space devoted to the race-course, overlooked
to the right by a picturesque windmill and an ancient ivy-mantled tower, and at the farther
extremity by the stands for spectators. To the left the view stretches over the rich undulating
hills of S[\e]vres and of Meudon, strewn with pretty villas and towers and steeples, and rests
in the dim distance upon the blue horizon of Les Verriéres.

The elegant central stand or tribune, of brick and stone, is reserved for the chief of the
state. In the time of the last presidency it was almost always occupied by the marshal, a great
lover of horses, and by his little court; but his successor, M. Grévy, whose sporting propensities
are satisfied by a game of billiards or a day's shooting with his pointers, generally waives
his privilege in favor of the members of the diplomatic corps.

The stand to the left of the track is the official tribune, very gay and attractive in the
days of the Empire, when it was filled by the members of the municipal council of Paris and
their families, but to-day rather a blot upon the picture, the wives of the Republican ædiles
belonging to a lower--though, in this case, a newer--stratum of society than did their imperial
predecessors. The Jockey Club reserves for itself the first stand to the right, from which
all women are rigorously excluded. The female element, however, is represented upon the lower
ranges of benches, though the ladies belonging to the more exclusive circles of fashion prefer
a simple chair upon the gravel of the paddock. It is there, at the foot of the club-stand,
that may be seen any Sunday in spring, expanding under the rays of the vernal sun, the fresh
toilettes that have bloomed but yesterday, or it may be this very morning, in the conservatories
of Worth and Laferrière. The butterflies of this garden of sweets are the jaunty hats whose
tender wings of azure or of rose have but just unfolded themselves to the light of day. My
figure of "butterfly hats" has been ventured upon in the hope that it may be found somewhat
newer than that of the "gentlemen butterflies" which the reporters of the press have chased
so often and so long that the down is quite rubbed from its wings, to say nothing of the superior
fitness of the comparison in the present case. In fact, the gentlemen do but very rarely flutter
from flower to flower within the sacred confines of the paddock, but are much more apt to betake
themselves in crowds to the less showy parterre of the betting-ground, where, under the shadow
of the famous chestnut tree, such enormous wagers are laid, and especially do they congregate
in the neighborhood of the tall narrow slates set up by such well-known bookmakers as Wright,
Valentine and Saffery.

Each successive year sees an increase in the number of betters, who contribute indirectly,
by means of subscriptions to the races, a very important proportion of the budget of the Jockey
Club. But if any one should imagine from this constant growth of receipts that the taste for
racing is extending in France, and is likely to become national, he would be making a great
mistake: what is growing, and with alarming rapidity, is the passion for gambling, for the
indulgence of which the "improvement of the breed of horses" is but a convenient and sufficiently
transparent veil. Whether the money of the player rolls around the green carpet of the race-course
or upon that of M. Blanc at Monte Carlo, the impulse that keeps it in motion is the same, and
the book-maker's slate is as dangerous as the roulette-table. The manager of the one piles
up a fortune as surely as the director of the other, and in both cases the money seems to be
made with an almost mathematical certainty and regularity. They tell of one day--that of the
Grand Prix of 1877--when Saffery, the Steel of the French turf and the leviathan of bookmakers,
cleared as much as fifty thousand dollars. Wright, Valentine, Morris and many more make in
proportion to their outlay. Four or five years ago these worthies had open offices on the Rue
de Choiseul and the Boulevard des Italiens, where betting on the English and French races went
on night and day; but the police, following the lead of that of London, stepped in to put an
end to this traffic in contraband goods, and the shops for the sale of this sort of merchandise
are now shut up. But if all this has been done, and if even those great voitures de poules
which once made the most picturesque ornament of the turf, have been banished out of sight,
it has been impossible to uproot the practice of betting, which has more devotees to-day than
ever before. It has been discovered in other countries than France that the only way to deal
with an ineradicable evil is to check its growth, and an attempt to prohibit pool-selling a
year or two ago in one of the States of this Union only resulted in the adoption of an ingenious
evasion whereby the pictures of the horses entered were sold at auction--a practice which is,
if I am not misinformed, still kept up. The same fiction, under another form, is to be seen
to-day in France. In order to bet openly one has to buy an entrance--ticket to the paddock,
which costs him twenty francs, whereas the general entry to the grounds is but one franc, and
any one found betting outside the enclosure or enceinte of the stables is liable to arrest.
The police, no doubt, are willing to accept the theory that a man who can afford to pay twenty
francs for a little square of rose- or yellow-tinted paper is rich enough to be allowed to
indulge in any other extravagant freaks that he pleases.

But with all the numerous bets that are made, and the excitement and interest, that must necessarily
be aroused, there is nothing of the turbulent and uproarious demonstration so characteristic
of the English race-course. The "rough" element is kept away from the French turf, partly because
it would find its surroundings there uncongenial with its tastes, and partly by the small entrance-fee
required; and one is thus spared at Longchamps the sight of those specimens of the various
forms of human misery and degradation that offend the eye at Epsom and infest even the more
aristocratic meetings of Ascot and Goodwood. At the French races, too, one never hears the
shrieks and howls of an English crowd, save perhaps when in some very important contest the
favorite is beaten, and even then the yells come from English throats: it is the bookmakers'
song of victory. A stranger at Longchamps would perceive at once that racing has no hold upon
the popular heart, and that, so far as it is an amusement at all apart from the gambling spirit
evoked, it is merely the hobby and pastime of a certain number of idle gentlemen. As to the
great mass of spectators, who are not interested in the betting, they go to Longchamps as they
would go to any place where uniforms and pretty toilettes and fine carriages are to be seen;
for the Parisian, as one of them has well said, "never misses a review, and he goes to the
races, although he understands nothing about them: the horses scarcely interest him at all.
But there he is because he must do as 'all Paris' does: he even tries to master a few words
of the barbarous jargon which it is considered bon-ton to speak at these places, for it seems
that the French language, so rich, so flexible, so accurate, is insufficient to express the
relations and affinities between man and the horse."

The enceinte du pesage, often called in vulgar English "the betting-ring," or the enclosure
mentioned above to which holders of twenty-franc tickets are admitted, at Longchamps is scrupulously
guarded by the stewards of the Jockey Club from the invasion of the demi-monde--a term that
I employ in the sense in which it is understood to-day, and not in that which it bore twenty
years ago. A woman of this demi-monde, which the younger Dumas has defined as that "community
of married women of whom one never sees the husbands," may enter the paddock if she appears
upon the arm of a gentleman, but the really objectionable element is obliged to confine itself
to the five-franc stands or to wander over the public lawns. Some of the fashionable actresses
of the day and the best-known belles-petites may be seen sunning themselves in their victorias
or their "eight-springs" by the side of the track in front of the stands, but this is not from
any interest that they feel in the performances of Zut or of Rayon d'Or, but simply because
to make the "return from the races" it is necessary to have been to them, and every woman of
any pretension to fashion, no matter what "world" she may belong to, must be seen in the gay
procession that wends its way through the splendid avenue on the return from Longchamps.

The great day at Longchamps, that crowns the Parisian season like the "bouquet" at the end
of a long series of fire-works, is the international fête of the Grand Prix de Paris, run for
the first time in 1863. It is open to entire horses and to fillies of all breeds and of all
countries, three-year-olds, and of the prize, one hundred thousand francs, half is given by
the city of Paris and half by the five great railway companies. It was the late duc de Morny
who first persuaded the municipal council and the administrations of the railways to make this
annual appropriation; ail of which, together with the entries, a thousand francs each, goes
to the winner, after deducting ten thousand francs given to the second horse and five thousand
to the third. Last year the amount won by Nubienne, carrying fifty-three and a half kilogrammes,
was one hundred and forty-one thousand nine hundred and seventy-five francs, and the time made
was three minutes thirty-three seconds on a track of three thousand mètres--one mile seven
furlongs, or three furlongs longer than that of the Derby at Epsom.

The fixing of Sunday for this international contest has aroused the prejudices of the English,
and has been the occasion of a long correspondence between Admiral Rous and Viscount Daru,
but the committee on races has refused to change the day, contending, with reason, that the
French people cannot be expected to exchange their usages for those of a foreign country. Although
it is understood that Queen Victoria has formally forbidden the prince of Wales to assist at
these profane solemnities, this interdict has not prevented the appearance there of some of
the principal personages of England, and we have several times noticed the presence of the
dukes of St. Albans, Argyll, Beaufort and Hamilton, the marquis of Westminster and Lords Powlett,
Howard and Falmouth; though the last, be it said, is believed to be influenced by his respect
for the day in his refusal to run his horses in France.

Those who remember the foundation of the Grand Prix will recall the extraordinary excitement
of the occasion, when the whole population of Paris, as one of the enemies of the new system
of racing said, turned out as they would to a capital execution or the drawing of a grand lottery
or the ascension of a monster balloon: the next day the name of the winner was in everybody's
mouth, and there was but one great man in the universe for that day at least--he who had conceived
the idea of the Grand Prix de Paris. The receipts on this occasion amounted to eighty-one thousand
francs: last year they were two hundred and forty thousand. I subjoin a list of the winners
from 1863 to 1879, inclusive:

  Years.  Horses.         Owners.               Nationality.

  1863    The Ranger      H. Savile             English.
  1864    Vermont         H. Delamarre          French.
  1865    Gladiateur      Comte F. de Lagrange  French.
  1866    Ceylon          Duke of Beaufort      English.
  1867    Feryacques      A. de Montgomery      French.
  1868    The Earl        Marquis of Hastings   English.
  1869    Glaneur         A. Lupin              French.
  1870    Sornette        Major Fridolin (Ch.   French.
                            Lafitte)
  1871    (Not run).
  1872    Cremorne        H. Savile             English.
  1873    Boïard          H. Delamarre          French.
  1874    Trent           W.R. Marshall         English.
  1875    Salvator        A. Lupin              French.
  1876    Kisber          Baltazzi              Hungarian.
  1877    St. Christophe  Comte F. de Lagrange  French.
  1878    Thurio          Prince Soltikoff      Russian.
  1879    Nubienne        Edmond Blanc          French.

It will be seen by this list that the superiority of the English-bred horse over the French
is far from being established. Of sixteen races, the English have gained but five, [Since this
article was written the Grand Prix has again been won (June, 1880) by an English horse, Robert
the Devil.] while they have been three times second and four times third, and in 1875 their
three representatives came in last. The winner of the Epsom Derby has been beaten several times,
as in the case, amongst others, of Blair Athol by Vermont and Doncaster by Boïard. The winners
of the two chief prizes of last year were a French, an English and an Hungarian horse--Gladiateur,
Cremorne and Kisber. It may be remarked also that the winner of the French Derby, as it is
called, which is run at Chantilly a fortnight earlier, is almost never the gainer of the Grand
Prix, the only exceptions having been Boïard and Salvator. This result is no doubt the consequence
of the system of training too long in vogue in France, and upheld by Tom Jennings and the Carters,
which consists in bringing a horse to the post in the maximum of his condition upon a given
day and for a given event. The animal can never be in better state, and if he does not win
the race for which he has been specially prepared, it is because he is not good enough: he
cannot be made to do any better than he has done. But if it is hard to bring a horse to this
culminating point of training, it is still more difficult to keep him there, even for a period
of a few days. Training has been compared to the sides of a triangle: when one has reached
the apex one must perforce begin to descend. It being, then, impossible that the animal should
support for any length of time the extreme tension of his whole organism that perfect training
supposes, it but very rarely happens that the horse prepared according to this system--for
the French Derby, for example--can be maintained in such a condition as to enable him to win
the Epsom Derby or the Grand Prix de Paris. We have heretofore referred to the reaction against
this practice of excessive training, and to the efforts of Henry Jennings in the direction
of a reform--efforts which within the last few years have been crowned with great success.

But we must now return to the Grand Prix. An invalid who had been forbidden by his doctor to
read the newspapers for several months, and who should chance to make his first promenade on
the Boulevards on the eve of the Grand Prix, would know at a glance that something extraordinary
was about to happen. At every step he would meet the unmistakable garb that announces the Englishman
on his travels--at every turn he would hear the language of Shakespeare and of Mr. Labouchere
adorned with a good deal of horse-talk. Coney's Cosmopolitan Bar, Rue Scribe, is full on this
day of betters and bookmakers, and possibly of Englishmen of a higher rank, whilst its silver
gril--which is not of silver, however, but polished so bright as almost to look like it--smokes
with the broiling steak, and the gin cocktails and brandy-and-soda flow unceasingly. Toward
midnight, especially--after the Salon des Courses has closed its doors--is Coney's to be seen
in its glory. The circus of the Champs Élysées, where Saturday is the favorite day, makes on
this particular Saturday its largest receipts in the year; the Jardin Mabille is packed; the
very hackney-coachmen wear the independent, half-insolent look that they have had since morning
and will have till the evening of the next day--unfailing sign in Paris that some great spectacle
is impending; milliners and dressmakers are out of their wits; the world has gone mad. The
restaurant-waiters and the barbers of the Boulevard may condescend, if you happen to be a regular
customer and given to tipping, to enlighten you on the chances of the respective horses. The
most knowing in these matters are supposed to be Pierre, the host of the Grand Café, right
under the rooms of the Jockey Club, and the rotund Henry, keeper of the Restaurant Bignon,
Avenue de l'Opéra, the confidant of certain turfmen, who may favor him with invaluable hints
if their salmis of woodcocks should have been a success or their cotelette double be done to
a turn. Charles, of the Café Durand, Place de la Madeleine, and Henry, the barber of the Boulevard
des Italiens, are also posted in the quotations and keep themselves well informed.

On Sunday morning by ten o'clock the Bois de Boulogne is filled with pedestrians, who take
their breakfast on the grass to while away the time of waiting. The restaurants Madrid and
the Cascade, where the tables are spread amidst flowers and shaded by trees--a feature that
is duly remembered in the bills, like an hors d'oeuvre--are turning visitors away. Toward half-past
two the enclosure of the paddock is absolutely full: not a vacant chair is to be found, and
a fearful consumption of iced champagne begins at the buffet. For, strange to say, the weather
is always fine on this day, and the Encouragement Society is as notorious for its good-luck
in this respect as the Skating Club and the Steeple-chase Society are for quite the opposite.
By degrees--and perhaps helped by the champagne--the vast throng will be observed, as the supreme
moment approaches, to depart from its habitually staid and calm demeanor, and finally to show
some signs of enthusiasm, though without growing in the least noisy and turbulent, like that
at Epsom on the Derby Day. Once in a year, however, I as the French say, doesn't make a custom,
and the Parisian crowd, to quote its own expression, "croit que c'est arrivé." The applause,
in case the winner is a French horse, comes from patriotic motives: if he happens to be English
it is given from a feeling of courtesy; and the crowd having done its duty in either case,
the famous "return," that has often furnished a subject for the painter, begins. And a wondrous
sight it is. Up to six o'clock the innumerable carriages continue to defile upon the several
routes that lead to the city, forming a procession of which the head touches the Place de la
Concorde, whilst the extremity still reaches to the tribunes of Longchamps. And when evening
comes on, and bets are settled, and heated brains seek to prolong the day's excitement far
into the night, such haunts as the Mabille grow so noisy that the police is generally obliged
to interfere. There was a time when, on these occasions, that jolly nobleman, the duke of Hamilton,
then a prominent figure on the French turf, did not disdain to lead his followers to the battle
in person, and to practise the noble art of boxing upon all comers, whether policemen or bookmakers.
But these deeds of former days are now but traditions: His Grace has married, which is said
to have taught him wisdom, and the bookmakers have grown into millionaires, with a sense of
the gravity becoming their position.--L. LEJEUNE.

MRS. PINCKNEY'S GOVERNESS

The short October day had come to an end. It had been one of those soft, misty, delicious days
common enough at this season of the year. The gathering darkness perplexed the young girl who,
without maid or escort of any kind, stood peering through the gloom at the little way-station.
Discouraged, apparently, at the result of her search, she entered the station-house, and inquired,
in rather a depressed voice, if they knew whether Mrs. Pinckney had sent a carriage or vehicle
of any kind for her: "she was expected," she added.

Youth and good looks are naturally effective, and the young Irishman in authority there, Michael
Redmond, was by no means insensible to their influence. He darted out with an air of alacrity,
returning, however, almost immediately with the depressing information that Mrs. Pinckney's
carriage was not there. "She went herself to the city this morning, madam," he said, with an
effort at consolation. "Perhaps in her absence the servants have forgotten--" Here he paused.

"It is very unfortunate," she murmured, evidently not accustomed to such emergencies. Nature,
however, although ill-seconded by her previous life, had given her both courage and decision.
"Is there nothing here which I can hire? is there nobody to drive me to Mrs. Pinckney's?"

"I'll see, madam," returned the young man.

Why he used the term "madam," which was undoubtedly misplaced, toward so youthful a person,
is only to be explained by an idea he had of exaggerated respect, a kind of protection apparently
to her loneliness and helplessness.

He darted headlong out again into the darkness. "There is a boy here with an open wagon, madam,"
returning almost as quickly as he went out. "It is not an elegant conveyance, but--" and he
hesitated--"it is the only one."

"Oh, it will do, thank you: anything will do which can carry me to the house. Is there room
for my trunk?"

Michael with strong, serviceable arms swung the trunk lightly into the wagon. She was already
seated, the boy, who was to drive, beside her.

"Oh, thank you." She drew a diminutive purse from her travelling-bag, and was evidently about
to recompense him when something in his manner deterred her. She thanked him again, for gracious
words fell lightly and easily from her lips, and the little vehicle went rattling out upon
the road.

Mrs. Pinckney's house was four or five miles from the station: the boy drove at a furious pace,
and it was by good luck rather than by good guidance that no catastrophe occurred. The beautiful
day was succeeded by a cloudy evening: neither moon nor stars were visible, and as they passed
through the avenue leading to the house, under the branches of magnificent old trees, large
drops of rain began to fall. The light which shone through the open door revealed camp-chairs
still standing on the lawn, and children's toys were scattered over the veranda. The boy's
rough feet as he carried in her trunk annihilated the face of a smart French doll, and Miss
Featherstone's dress caught on, and was torn by, a nail in a dilapidated rocking-horse. The
light came from a picturesque-looking lamp which hung from an arch in the centre of a broad,
low hall. She rang the bell: the sound reverberated through the house, yet no one came. The
boy, who had stood the trunk on end, growing impatient, rang again: they heard voices, hubbub
and confusion, children's cries, servants summoned, a man speaking very volubly in French.
Then very imperfect English sentences were shouted in a kind of despair. The door was divided
in the middle, with a large brass knocker as an appendage to the upper half. Miss Featherstone,
growing anxious and impatient, sounded this vigorously, which brought a maid, who had evidently
quite lost her head, to the door.

"This is Mrs. Pinckney's?" said the young girl in prompt, cheerful tones. "I am Miss Featherstone,
the governess, whom Mrs. Pinckney expects."

"Yes, ma'am," replied the servant in an absent, distracted manner.

"Marie!" shrieked the French voice in shrill tones of alarm and anger.

"Please, miss, I must go. Do come in and sit down: I'll send somebody--"

"Marie! Marie!--Where is that vilaine femme?"

At the second summons she fled, leaving Miss Featherstone and the boy, standing with her trunk
on his shoulders, on the threshold.

The young girl walked in, sat down in a large leathern chair, and was taking out her purse
to pay her driver when a little fat man, with a very red face and bushy black hair, came flying
through the hall, carrying a child in his arms. He was followed by two or three sobbing children
and the girl whom Miss Featherstone had already seen. "My dear mees," he said, never stopping
until he reached the governess, "see this leetle enfant, this cher petit Henri. He has already
one contortion--spasm--what you call it?--and I fear he goes to have one other. Ma chère mademoiselle,
have you some experience? Is it that you know what we shall do?"

The child lay pale and unconscious in the arms of the distressed little foreigner. Miss Featherstone
tore off her gloves; her purse, unheeded, fell on the floor; she led the way into the nearest
room, which proved to be the dining-room, the helpless group following. "Bring a tub of hot
water for his feet," she said in calm, decided tones. She was seated, and had taken the child
in her arms.--"Now, monsieur"--to the Frenchman--"will you be kind enough to give me some ice
from that pitcher on the sideboard behind you?"

She drew a delicate little handkerchief from her pocket, and, putting pieces of ice in it,
held it to the child's head. "Some one," she continued, "take off his shoes and stockings."

Her composure restored a degree of order, although no one seemed to have recovered their senses
sufficiently to obey her as to the child's shoes. The boy who had acted as her driver knelt
down and proceeded to accomplish it. When the poor little feet were up to the knees in hot
water and the child was evidently reviving, she said, "The doctor should be sent for immediately.
As this boy has a horse and wagon at the door, it would be best to send him. What is the name
of your family physician?"

"Doctor Harris."

"You know where he lives?"

"Oh yes, ma'am, very well."

"Stop a moment: some one write a line, so that there shall be no mistake."

The foreigner flung up his hands with a gesture of despair. "It is so difficile for me to write
l'Anglais--" he began.

With the child lying on her left arm she opened her bag with her right--the little driver,
the most collected person besides herself of the party, holding it up to her--found a scrap
of paper and a pencil and wrote a brief, urgent appeal to the physician to come immediately,
mentioning that the mother was from home, and signing herself "Laura Featherstone, governess."

Sooner than she would have believed possible Doctor Harris appeared: he came in his own gig,
the little driver who had been so active in the events of the evening vanishing entirely from
the scene, and, as it was afterward remembered, in the confusion without his douceur.

Doctor Harris, a comparatively young man, was cheerful and reassuring. "There will probably
be no recurrence of the convulsions," he said, examining the child, who was sleeping tranquilly
in the young girl's arms; "but what was the exciting cause? what has he been eating?"

"I find him with a grand heap of the raisins and the nuts," replied the French tutor excitedly.
"Madame goes to town this morning and takes la bonne pour s'en servir--le pauvre enfant est
abandonné, voilà tout!" Gesticulating with much vehemence, he sat down at the conclusion as
if exhausted by his efforts.

"What has been done for the child?" asked the physician in a cautious whisper.

The little Frenchman rose; his eyes flashed; he waved his fat, short arms toward Miss Featherstone:
"Cette chère mademoiselle, she is one angel from the sky: she do it all," with increased animation
and violence--"ice for his head, hot water for his feet. I could not tink, I was so *accablé"

This vehement declamation not being calculated to ensure the patient's slumbers, Doctor Harris
ordered the little fellow to be undressed and put to bed immediately. "I should like to see
you, my dear young lady, when you are at leisure," he said as Miss Featherstone rose, still
with the child in her arms, and was following the maid to the nursery: "I have directions to
leave in case of a recurrence. However, I don't think there will be any return of the convulsions,"
he added.

The maid, reduced to helplessness by terror, looked on while Miss Featherstone undressed the
sleeping boy. She laid him in the bed, ordered the servant to sit by his side until her return,
put the candle on the floor so that it would not shine in his face, and went out to meet the
doctor.

"Who will be with the child during the night?" was his first query.

"Hèlas! I do not know," cried the foreigner with a gesture of despair.

"If there is no one else to take care of him I will," replied the young girl cheerfully.

"It is infâme!" said the tutor.--"Cette chère mademoiselle has but arrived: she is weary. Parbleu!
she must be hungry. Why not somebody tink of dis?--My dear mees, have you had dinner? Non?
J'en etais sûr," with a groan.

Mr. Brown--for that was the tutor's very English name--was so dramatic in the expression of
his good feeling that Miss Featherstone could not repress a smile as she turned to the physician,
and, taking out her pencil and a little memorandum-book, said, "If you'll give me directions,
Doctor Harris, I think that I'm perfectly competent to take care of the child."

Doctor Harris, who was gallant and a bachelor, made a whispered remonstrance referring to her
fatigue, but she replied gravely, "I am in perfect health, and it never makes me ill to sit
up with a sick person: I have had experience." Some painful remembrance evidently agitated
her, for her voice suddenly failed.

They were interrupted by the sound of carriage-wheels rolling rapidly up the avenue.

"Voici madame!" cried Mr. Brown, who flew to the door to hand Mrs. Pinckney out.

He had taken the earliest opportunity to enlighten her as to the child's illness, for they
heard her exclaim, "I know it: oh, I have heard of it! Where is the doctor?"

Mrs. Pinckney was tall and slight: she had blonde hair, large, beautiful eyes--they were blue--and
regular features. In short, she was exceedingly pretty: so thought Doctor Harris, and he made
many salaams before her.

"Oh, doctor," she exclaimed, rushing up to him and grasping his arm, "is there any danger?
Tell me, is there any danger?"

"Not the slightest, ma'am," he replied promptly.

She wouldn't be reassured: "But why not? Convulsions are so serious, they are so terrible!
I had a relative who was ruined for life by epilepsy: he was a handsome fellow, but he lost
good looks, mind, everything. Oh, Doctor Harris, don't tell me that my poor little Harry is
to have epilepsy!" She had the art of puckering her forehead into a thousand wrinkles, yet
looking lovely in spite of it.

"I certainly shall not tell you anything of the kind," said the doctor with a reassuring smile,
"for it wouldn't be true; but who is the relative who had epilepsy?"

"Oh, a nephew of my husband, and he had a dreadful fall. He fell out of a second-story window:
it was in the country, and rather a low house, but it finished him, poor fellow! Oh, doctor,
sit down: I am tired to death, and this news has so upset me! Will you assure me, upon your
honor, that my child will never have epilepsy?"

"Sincerely, Mrs. Pinckney, I don't think there is the least danger; but you must be careful
as to what he eats. Nuts and raisins are not a particularly wholesome diet for a child three
years old."

She looked about inquiringly, and did not seem the least surprised as her eye fell on Miss
Featherstone.

The tutor, still irate from his alarm, exclaimed, "You take la bonne, madame. I am occupy with
mes élèves: then I am not in his care."

Mrs. Pinckney, who was not an irritable woman, took no notice of this implied reproach: "What
is to be done with him to-night, Doctor Harris? Can you sleep here?" As he shook his head,
"You'll come the first thing in the morning? Oh, doctor, can I go to bed and sleep comfortably?
Do you assure me that there is not the slightest danger of a recurrence of those dreadful spasms?"

When the distressed mother spoke of sleeping comfortably a smile, which all his admiration
for the fair widow could not restrain, flickered over Doctor Harris's face: "I was about to
give this young lady"--and he turned to Miss Featherstone--"directions for the night, as we
didn't expect you home: she has been very kind and efficient, and was going to take care of
the child; but now--"

He was interrupted by Mrs. Pinckney crossing the room, seizing Miss Featherstone's hand and
kissing her with effusion: "My dear Miss Featherstone--your name is Featherstone, is it not?--I
have no words to thank you sufficiently."

"Oh, the chère mees!" burst forth the little Frenchman. "I was so full of frighten I not know
what to do, which way to turn myself; and she, so calm, so smooth," he said, hesitating for
a word, and apparently discomfited when he found it--"she take the helm, she issue the orders:
every one obey, and the child is saved." After this peroration he glanced around as if for
applause.

"I was about to say," resumed Doctor Harris, "that, now that the nurse has returned, Miss Featherstone,
who has been travelling all day, had better have some dinner and be sent to bed."

"Oh, certainly," replied Mrs. Pinckney; "and now that I'm so much relieved I'd like some dinner
myself.--Mr, Brown, do you know what prospects there are of our having any dinner?"

The tutor shrugged his shoulders and spread his hands with a deprecatory gesture: "I know not,
my dear madame. Les enfants et moi, we have our dinner at two o'clock: we did not comprehend
that madame would return to-night," as a happy apologetic afterthought.

Mrs. Pinckney glanced at a little watch which she took from her belt: "Twelve o'clock, but
the servants probably have not gone to bed."--She rang the bell. "Mary," to a maid who entered,
"tell the cook to make some tea and send in cold chicken or beef--whatever is left from dinner."

"I think the fire is out, Mrs. Pinckney," the servant hesitatingly replied.

"Oh, no matter: let her get a few chips and make a fire: I must have my tea."--Doctor Harris
rose. "Oh, doctor, don't go until you have taken one more look at my darling."

The nursery was on the same floor. Mrs. Pinckney insisted on kissing the child, much to the
physician's annoyance. He checked her, and carefully refrained from talking himself while in
the room. As he was taking leave at the front door she repeated, "Now, doctor, you're sure
I can be comfortable--that I can go to bed and go to sleep? Tell me positively"--and she looked
earnestly in his face--"that the child will never have another convulsion."

He laughed, and bent an admiring tender, gaze on the pretty mother, who stood appealingly before
him: "My dear Mrs. Pinckney, I cannot swear positively that Harry will never have another convulsion,
particularly if he is allowed to eat nuts and raisins ad libitum: however, with ordinary care
I don't think it at all probable."--"Is it possible," he reflected as he drove home, "that
I want to marry that woman, selfish and inconsiderate as she is? Why, she would have let the
governess, a perfect stranger, sit up with the child if I hadn't interfered! She is awfully
pretty, though. I can't help liking her: then, her money would be a comfortable addition to
my professional emoluments."

Although the hot, strong tea was very grateful in her exhausted condition, this, with the very
excitements of the day, kept Miss Featherstone awake the brief remainder of the night. She
breakfasted the following morning with the children and their tutor. To her great surprise,
little Harry, looking pale and wan, was at the table.

"Madame is too ill to rise," Mr. Brown announced in his very best English, "and the bonne is
attending her. Will this dear mees take the head of the table and us oblige by pouring out
the coffee?"

Miss Featherstone cheerfully acceded, and left her own breakfast cooling while she coaxed and
consoled the little invalid, who was quite fretful after his last night's experiences. She
was making an attempt to eat something herself when Mrs. Pinckney sent for her, and, as there
was no one to take care of the child, she carried him in her arms to his mother's room.

"Good-morning, Miss Featherstone;" and she devoured the curly-headed boy with kisses. Mrs.
Pinckney, reclining on large pillows, looked prettier than ever. No degree of negligence affected
her appearance: her light, curling, slightly-dishevelled hair and delicate, clear skin were
the more attractive under conditions which would be fatal to many women. "Sit down, Miss Featherstone.--Adèle!"
calling to the nurse, "you must take dear little Harry away: I want to talk to Miss Featherstone.
Be very careful of him: don't let him eat or over-fatigue himself. And, Adèle, after lunch
come and help me dress: I think I should feel better for a drive.--Don't you think I should
feel better for a drive, Miss Featherstone? I'm in miserable health," she added as the door
closed on the nurse and child, "I've had so much trouble. I've lost my husband--he died of
consumption"--she seized her pocket-handkerchief and began to cry: "I was alone, except for
servants, with him at St. Augustine. I think his family were very inconsiderate. I wrote letter
after letter, telling them of his condition and begging and imploring them to come to my assistance;
but no one came. I had just left him for a few hours to get a little rest--I was so worn out
with anxiety and the responsibility--and he died--alone--with his nurse--" Sobs choked her voice.

Miss Featherstone rose and kissed her: it was a way she had of comforting. Mrs. Pinckney received
the caress graciously, and pressed her hand.

"Then my income is not nearly so large as it was," she resumed, "and I'm obliged to practise
a great deal of economy. I've discharged my maid, and share the children's nurse with them,
and Adèle is growing quite discontented with double duty. I parted with Baptiste also: it was
a frightful sacrifice, for he was just a perfect butler. I'm always having economy talked at
me by my husband's family, and I hate it!" with a discontented sigh. "I had a house in New
York," she continued, "which they urged me to give up. They said I couldn't afford to keep
both, and it was better for the children to keep the country-house, and that here on the river
it would be easy to get to town. I'm extravagantly fond of going to the theatre and opera,
and have had in a great measure to relinquish it. I went even when I was in mourning: the doctors
said I must be amused. We'll go sometimes this winter together," she added coaxingly. "Well,
now, Miss Featherstone, as to your rôle of governess: I don't feel as if you were to be anything
but my nice new friend, you were so kind last night to my dear little Harry. You teach the
common English branches and the rudiments of Latin, French and music? Mr. Brown--is it not
an odd name for such a thorough Frenchman? but his father was English, although he was born
and educated in France--Mr. Brown teaches them Latin and French at present, but I don't know
how long I shall keep him; so you'll be relieved of that. I shall want you to act as a friend
in the household--I'm so much of an invalid--sit at the head of the table occasionally, and
give orders to the servants."

Miss Featherstone looked slightly perplexed. Her duties as governess were mingling in a distracting
manner with those of housekeeper.

"The children are so young," Mrs. Pinckney said apologetically, "they can't be kept at their
lessons from morning till night. Rose is eleven, Alfred nine, Dick seven. Harry might possibly
learn his alphabet, but I doubt it. You can arrange the hours and studies to suit yourself;
and I want you to govern and manage the children--relieve me in that way as much as possible.
I hope you'll be very comfortable and happy in my house, Miss Featherstone. If there is anything
out of the way in your room or anywhere else, let me know. I'm sure we shall be good friends;"
and with a hearty, affectionate kiss she dismissed the governess.

As Miss Featherstone descended the stairs she met Doctor Harris, gallant and gay, with a rose
in his buttonhole, followed by the nurse and child, on a visit of reassurance to the fair mother.

Nothing is truer than that homely old proverb, "The lame and the lazy are always provided for;"
and Mrs. Pinckney was provided for effectually when she lit upon Miss Featherstone. Just before
Christmas the governess was summoned to an interview with Mrs. Pinckney, who was, as usual,
in bed: "Oh, my dear Miss Featherstone, I'm in despair--ill again. Christmas coming, and my
husband's brother, Colonel Pinckney, is on his way to make us a visit. If there's any one I
feel nervous and fidgety before, it is Colonel Pinckney: he seems to look you through and see
all your faults and weaknesses: at least, he does mine, and he makes me see them too, which
I don't like one bit. I do the best I can: I'm in such miserable health, and have had so much
to break me down. Did you ever know any one, dear Miss Featherstone, who had had so much trouble?--my
husband's death and all."

The young girl did not reply. Visions of her own lonely home rose before her--her mother fading
slowly away under an accumulation of misfortunes; her only brother shot in the Union army;
her father sinking into almost a dishonored grave through hopeless liabilities brought on indirectly
by the war; she, petted and idolized, the only remaining member of the family, seeking her
daily bread and finding a pittance by working among strangers. She hung her head and had not
a word with which to reply.

"I dare say you've had troubles of your own," exclaimed Mrs. Pinckney. "Of course you have,
or you wouldn't be here, you dear creature! It is well for me that you are here, though," kissing
her affectionately. "Now, everything must be just right when this haughty, fastidious brother-in-law
of mine comes. He isn't apt to find fault, but I am conscious that he is secretly criticising
my dress, my dinners, the gaucheries of the servants, my moral qualities, even the way I turn
my sentences. I shouldn't mind trying to talk my very best English if he were not prying into
my motives: it is difficult to be on one's guard in every direction," with a sigh.

"I should think he'd be very disagreeable," said Miss Featherstone.

"No:" the no was hesitating. "He is dangerously attractive: at least he attracts me. I'm all
the time wondering what he is thinking, which keeps me perpetually thinking of him. He is a
Southerner, you know, and was in the army; so you must be very careful,'my dear mees,' as Mr.
Brown says, not to come out with your 'truly loyal' sentiments: he won't like them."

"I don't care whether he likes them or not." Miss Featherstone's face was crimson: it was the
first spark of temper she had shown since she came into the house.

Mrs. Pinckney looked at her in surprise, then laughed: "I'm delighted to see something human
about you: I thought you were a saint."

"By no manner of means," returned the governess curtly.

"I shall warn Dick not to get upon the subject of the war," was the note that Mrs. Pinckney,
inconsequent as she generally was, made of the scene.--"But I'm forgetting why I sent for you,"
she said aloud. "I want you to go to town and buy Christmas presents and quantities of things
to eat and drink. I was going myself, but I never can count upon a day as to being well with
any certainty," with rather an ostentatious sigh. "I've made out a list: there's plenty of
money, isn't there?"

Miss Featherstone had the care of the money and accounts: "Yes," hesitatingly; "that is--"

"No matter," interrupted Mrs. Pinckney. "I have accounts at hosts of places. The carriage is
ordered to take you to the station: will you be ready, dear, at ten o'clock?"

Miss Featherstone looked at her watch and hurried to her room.

It was snowing when she returned from New York: great flakes fell on her as she stepped, loaded
with bundles, out of the carriage. The children met her with joyful whoops at the front door:
"Oh, here's clear little Miss Featherstone, and we know she's got our Christmas presents.--You
can't deny it. Hurrah!"

They dragged her into the dining-room, where the table, decked with flowers, was handsomely
arranged for dinner. A blazing wood-fire roared on the hearth: in front of it stood a tall,
handsome man with a military air. He was dark, with brilliant eyes, a certain regularity of
features, and, as his passport declared, his hair was dark brown and curly. Colonel Pinckney
looked haughty and impenetrable, as his sister-in-law had described him. Mrs. Pinckney, exquisitely
dressed, reclined in a large chair by the corner of the fireplace: she held up a pretty fan
to screen her face from the heat, and was talking gayly to her brother-in-law. At a table in
a corner Mr. Brown, by the light of a large lamp, was endeavoring, with great difficulty, to
read an English paper.

"Oh, mamma, see poor little Miss Featherstone loaded down with boxes and bundles!" shrieked
the children, dragging her up to the fire.

"Dear children, do go and get Adèle to take them," said their mother.--"Here, Mary," to a servant
who entered, "carry these packages up to my dressing-room.--There are more in the carriage?"
in reply to a remark of Miss Featherstone.--"Adèle," to her maid, who stood at the door, "bring
in everything you find in the carriage."

Two or three weeks passed, and Colonel Pinckney made no sign of departure. In spite of his
unsocial tendencies, he drove and dined out with his sister-in-law, for many nice people chose
this winter to remain at their country-houses. He took long walks by himself, and made inroads
into the school-room, for he was very fond of the children. Mrs. Pinckney was less frequently
indisposed, and exerted herself in a measure to entertain him. She never, by any accident,
occupied herself, and was one morning lying back in a large chair by a coal-fire in the library,
her little idle hands resting on her lap, when Colonel Pinckney, who had been examining the
books on the shelves which lined the room, assumed his usual position, with his back to the
fire, and startled his sister-in-law by exclaiming, "Where did you get your white slave, Virginia?"--Mrs.
Pinckney looked bewildered--"this young girl who fills so many places in the house? She appears
to be nurse, housekeeper, governess and maid-of-all-work in one."

"My dear Dick, what do you mean?" exclaimed Mrs. Pinckney with some indignation. "Do you think
I impose upon Miss Featherstone? I love her dearly. Then my delicate health, and you know I'm
obliged to be economical."

Colonel Pinckney made a movement of impatience and almost disgust., "How much do you pay her?"
he abruptly exclaimed, turning his flashing eyes upon his companion.

"How angry you look! how you frighten me!" said Mrs. Pinckney, who had a trick of coming out
with everything she thought. "I pay her"--and she stammered--"two hundred dollars a year."

"The devil!" he exclaimed. "I beg your pardon, Virginia, but I can hardly believe it. What
an absurd compensation for all that girl does! Why, one of your dresses frequently costs more
than that: I see your bills, you know."

"I'm very sorry you do if this is the use you make of your knowledge," replied Mrs. Pinckney
in an injured tone. "She is in mourning, and does not require many dresses: besides, Richard,
no one preaches economy to me more than you do. I'm sick of the very word," petulantly.

"What position, really, is she supposed to occupy?"

"She is the governess," said Mrs. Pinckney in a sulky tone.

"Now listen, Virginia. I have seen that young girl darning stockings in the school-room and
at the same time hearing the children's lessons; I have seen her arrange the dinner-table,
with the children clinging to her skirts; I have seen her with the keys, giving out the stores;
I know she keeps your accounts; and I can readily comprehend where those clear, well-expressed
letters came from, although signed by you, which I have frequently received in my character
of guardian and executor."

"You certainly don't think I meant to deceive you as to the letters?"

"Oh no," replied her brother-in-law: "I don't think you in the least deceitful, Virginia;"
and in his own mind reflected, "'Hypocrisy is the homage which vice pays to virtue.'"

Nobody likes hypocrisy, to be sure, but Mrs. Pinckney did not take the trouble to veil her
peccadilloes. Easy and indolent as she was, being now thoroughly roused by his thinly-veiled
contempt, she endeavored to be disagreeable in her turn. With the most innocent air in the
world she exclaimed, "I declare, Dick, I believe you're in love with Miss Featherstone, although
you like fair women--"

"And she is dark," he interrupted.

"Regular features--"

"And her dear little nose is slightly retroussèe; but you cannot deny, Virginia, that she has
a most captivating air."

"I'm fond of her, but I do not think her captivating." Mrs. Pinckney was now thoroughly out
of temper. She was not naturally envious, but she could be roused to envy. "And so you're in
love with her?" satirically.

"How can I help it?" he returned with a mocking air. "She has magnificent eyes, a bewildering
smile: then she has that je ne sais quoi, as our foreign friend would say. There is no defining
it, there is no assuming it. To conclude, I consider Miss Featherstone dangerously attractive."

"Just what I told her you were," returned Mrs. Pinckney, who saw he was trying to tease her,
and had recovered by this time her equanimity. In spite of his phlegm he looked interested.
"You'd better take care and make no reference to the war, for she is furiously loyal, I can
tell you," said Mrs. Pinckney, recalling the conversation. "Since when have you been in love
with her?"

"From the very first moment I saw her, when she entered the dining-room, her cheeks brilliant
from the cold, her lovely eyes, blinded by the light, peering through their long lashes, a
little becoming embarrassment in her air as she saw your humble servant--laden down with your
bundles, and your children, as usual, clinging to her skirts."

"Dick, how disagreeable you are!" and Mrs. Pinckney began to pout again.

"We are all her lovers," he maliciously continued--"all the men here--Doctor Harris, Mr. Brown
and--" he bowed expressively.

"Doctor Harris?" exclaimed his sister-in-law. This defection cut her to the heart.

"The day my namesake and godchild, little Dick, was ill I went to the nursery, as in duty bound:
you know how fond I am of that child. There was Miss Featherstone, not the nurse, interested
and concerned, sitting by the patient. There was Doctor Harris, interested and absorbed with
Miss Featherstone. His looks were unmistakable: I saw it at a glance. And as for Mr. Brown,
he raves about this 'dear mees' or 'cette chère mademoiselle' by the hour together. She carried
his heart by storm the first time he saw her, as she did mine."

"How far does your admiration lead you? Do you wish any assistance from me?"

"As you please: I am indifferent," he returned, shrugging his shoulders. "Seriously, Virginia--I
say this in my character of guardian and adviser-general to the family--I think what you give
her is a beggarly pittance in return for all she does, and I suggest that you raise her salary."

Miss Featherstone, although prejudiced at first against Colonel Pinckney, grew by degrees to
like him. His manner to her was grave and respectful; he carried off the children, quite conveniently
sometimes, when she was almost worn out with fatigue; and the air of friendly interest with
which his dark eyes rested upon her was in a manner comforting. Their little interviews, although
she was unconscious of it, gave zest to her life.

One cold morning, as she sat before breakfast with little Harry on her lap, warming his hands
before the dining-room fire, Colonel Pinckney exclaimed, "Miss Featherstone, did you have the
care of that child last night?"

"Yes," as she pressed the fat little hands in hers.

"And dressed him this morning?"

"Why, yes. Colonel Pinckney, excuse me: why shouldn't I?"

"Virginia is the most selfish human being I ever knew in my life," he burst forth. "You, after
working like a slave during the day, cannot even have your night's rest undisturbed. I'll speak
to her, and insist upon it that this state of things shall not continue any longer."

Miss Featherstone looked annoyed: "Mr. Pinckney"--she never would, if she remembered it, call
him "Colonel"--"I beg that you will do nothing of the kind. Mrs. Pinckney is quite ill with
a cold: she can scarcely speak above a whisper, and she required Adèle's services during the
night. I volunteered--it was my own arrangement--sleeping with the child," eagerly.

"Oh yes," he returned, "you are remarkably well suited to each other--you and Virginia: you
give, and she takes," sarcastically. "Listen, Miss Featherstone. I have known that woman twelve
years--it is exactly twelve years since my unfortunate brother married her--and in all that
time I never knew her consider but one human being, and that was herself."

"Indeed, you're very much mistaken, Colonel--that is, Mr.--Pinckney, as far as I am concerned.
Mrs. Pinckney is really very kind to me. I am exceedingly fond of her, but I cannot bear to
see things going wrong, and when I can I make them right. Mrs. Pinckney is in delicate health."

"That's all nonsense," he interrupted. "She spends her time studying her sensations. If she
were poor she'd have something better to do. I think you are doing wrong morally, Miss Featherstone.
You are encouraging her in idleness and selfishness by taking her duties and bearing them on
your young shoulders.--Now, Harry, come here," to that small individual, who slowly and unwillingly
descended from the governess's lap: "leave Miss Featherstone, my young friend, to pour out
the coffee and eat her own breakfast. Adèle is with mamma, is she? Well, Uncle Dick will give
Harry his breakfast."

The cold was intense the following day, yet Miss Featherstone, well muffled up, was on her
way to the hall-door, where the sleigh was waiting to take her to the station.

"Forgive me," exclaimed Colonel Pinckney, who waylaid her, much to her annoyance, "but what
are you going to do for the family now?"

"I am going to New York to get a cook," she replied with a decided air.

"Do you know the state of the thermometer?"

"I don't care anything about it," with some obstinacy, tugging at the button of her glove.

"But I do," he said. "Now, Miss Featherstone, while I'm here I am master of the house, and
if it's necessary to go to town it's I that am going--to use Pat's vernacular--and not you.
Give me directions, and I'll follow them implicitly."

"So Dick went, did he?" said Mrs. Pinckney. She was propped up in bed with large pillows: Miss
Featherstone, still in her bonnet, sat by her side.

"Yes: it was very kind, for I don't know what would have become of the children all day, poor
things! and you sick."

Mrs. Pinckney glanced searchingly at her. "Dick is very kind when he pleases, and exceedingly
efficient," returned the invalid: "I've no doubt he'll bring back a capital cook."

"I had a great prejudice against Mr. Pinckney," said Miss Featherstone, slowly smoothing out
her gloves, "but I confess it has vanished, there is something so straightforward and manly
about him; and he certainly is very kind."

"He does not flatter you at all?"

"Oh no; and that is one reason I like him. I detest the gallant, tender manner which many men
affect toward women."

"Doctor Harris, for instance?"

"Well, Doctor Harris, for instance," returned Miss Featherstone, smiling, and blushing a little.

"Doctor Harris has certainly made love to her, and Dick as certainly hasn't. I wonder--oh,
how I wonder!--whether he was in earnest the other day?" Her large blue eyes were fixed scrutinizingly
on the governess, although she thought, not said, these things. "He thinks you do a great deal
too much in the house, and was quite abusive to me about it: he actually swore when he discovered
the amount of your salary. Now, my dear Miss Featherstone, you may name your own price: I'll
give you anything you ask, for no amount of money can represent the comfort you are to me."

"I don't want one cent more than I at present receive," replied the governess, kissing her fondly.

A few days after Colonel Pinckney--a self-constituted committee, apparently, for the prevention
of cruelty to governesses--surprised Miss Featherstone in the school-room. She was seated before
the fire in a low chair, little Harry, who was fretful from a cold, lying on her lap, the other
children clustered around her. As he softly opened the door he heard these words: "'Blondine,'
replied the fairy Bienveillante sadly,' no matter what you see or hear, do not lose courage
or hope.'" As she told the story in low, drowsy tones she was also mending the heel of a little
stocking.

"It is abominable!" the colonel cried: "you are worn out with fatigue: I hear it in your voice.
I called you a 'white slave' to Virginia: nothing is truer. You've today given out supplies
from the store-room, you were in the kitchen a long time with the new cook, you set the lunch-table--don't
deny it, for I saw you--besides taking care of the children and hearing their lessons."

"While Mrs. Pinckney is ill this is absolutely necessary," she returned with decision: "of
course it makes some confusion having a new cook--"

"Children," he interrupted, "this séance is to be broken up: scamper off to Adèle to get ready:
I'll ask mamma to let you drive to the station in the coupé to meet Mr. Brown: there will certainly
be room for such little folks.--And as to you, Miss Featherstone, as head of the house pro
tem. I order you to put on your hat and cloak and walk in the garden for a while with me: the
paths are quite hard and dry."

"Mamma! mamma! we are to drive to the station: Uncle Dick says so," shrieked the children,
breaking up a delicious little doze into which Mrs. Pinckney had fallen while Adèle sat at
her sewing in the darkened room.

"Is Uncle Dick going with you?"

"No, he is going to walk in the garden with Miss Featherstone."

Mrs. Pinckney felt quite cross: "He is positively insolent, ordering things about in this way,
interrupting my nap and all. What, under Heaven, should I do without her if he is in earnest
about Miss Featherstone?"

If she could have heard what Colonel Pinckney was saying in the garden she would have been
still crosser.

"I want to enlighten you a little as to my fair sister-in-law," he began after a few commonplaces.

"Oh, please don't, Colonel Pinckney"--unconsciously she was sliding into the "Colonel." "I'd
much rather you wouldn't. I think--" and she hesitated.

"What do you think?"

"Why"--and she looked embarrassed--"I am afraid I shall not love Mrs. Pinckney as well if you
analyze and show up all her little weaknesses. We could none of us bear it," she continued
warmly. "Remember that line--

  Be to her faults a little blind.

I like to love people, and feel like a woman in some novel I've read: 'Long and deeply let
me be beguiled with regard to the infirmities of those I love.'"

"You're an angel!" he cried.

Miss Featherstone looked startled and annoyed.

Colonel Pinckney, with much self-possession, recovered himself immediately. "We all know it,"
he continued jestingly--"Mr. Brown, the children, servants and all; but, in spite of this,
you shall not be imposed upon. Now, I wish to give you a résumé of Mrs. Pinckney's life--"

"Oh, Colonel Pinckney! when we are under her roof!"

"It is a shelter bought with my father's money," he returned. "But you must and shall hear
me: it is necessary. She is the incarnation of selfishness: in a young person it could go no
further. One can pardon anything rather than selfishness. She entirely exhausted our charity
during poor Harry's long illness. She travelled with every comfort that money could give: she
had her maid, Harry had his man, the children were left with my mother. One winter they went
to Nassau, the next to the south of France: from both places she wrote such despairing letters
that my poor old father and mother were nearly beside themselves. It was like the explosion
of a bomb-shell in the household when a letter came from Virginia. Sometimes I used to read
and suppress them: they were filled with shrieks and lamentations. Harry was in a rapid decline;
the mental torture was more than she could bear; some one must come immediately out to her,
etc. The first winter my eldest brother went, to the serious injury of his business: he is
a lawyer. I went when they were in Europe, my wound not yet healed. By George! Harry looked
in better health than I: every one thought I was the invalid. The doctor was called in immediately,
who said I had endangered my life by the expedition. I found out my lady had been to balls
and on excursions all the time she was writing those harrowing letters."

"Is it possible," said Miss Featherstone, "that you think Mrs. Pinckney is false--that she
deliberately tells untruths?"

"Not a bit of it," interrupted Colonel Pinckney. "She loves to complain and make herself an
object of sympathy. Poor Harry, of course, had a constant cough, and whenever he took cold
all his distressing symptoms were aggravated: then she'd write her letters. By the time they
were received he would be pretty well again. You can see for yourself what she is: she sends
for Doctor Harris, has Adèle sleep on a mattress on the floor in her room, leaving little Harry
to keep you awake all night--a fine preparation for the drudgery of the next day--then toward
evening she rises, makes a beautiful toilette, and drives with me several miles to a dinner-party.
Not a month ago, you remember, this occurred when we went to Judge Lawrence's. To go back to
my poor brother: let me tell you what happened from her crying wolf so often. The next winter
they went to St. Augustine: we live in Virginia, you know. A few weeks after their arrival
the alarming letters began and continued to appear. I took it upon myself to suppress most
of them, for really I had grown scarcely to believe a word she said with regard to her husband,
and, as I am sanguine, thought poor Harry would overcome the disease, as our father had before
him, and live to a good old age. One morning, however, a telegram came: he was dead!" Colonel
Pinckney could scarcely speak. Recovering himself a little, he continued in husky tones: "He
died alone with his nurse: Virginia, taking care of herself as usual, was in another room asleep."

"I wonder what they are talking about?" thought Mrs. Pinckney, twisting her pretty neck in
all directions so she could see them from her bed. Their two heads were close together: he
was speaking earnestly, and Miss Featherstone's eyes were on the ground.

Mrs. Pinckney dressed and went down to dinner, although she had not quite recovered the use
of her voice. "Dick," she whispered, "it was a fine move, your sending the children away this
afternoon, so that you could have Miss Featherstone all to yourself. Did you come to the point?"

"No, but I will one of these days: I am preparing her mind," he added mischievously.

As time went on a vague uneasiness seized the young governess. She imagined Mrs. Pinckney was
growing cool in her manner toward her: certainly, Doctor Harris, who was constantly at the
house, was becoming importunate in his attentions. Once she looked up suddenly at as prosaic
a place as the dinner-table. Colonel Pinckney was gazing both ardently and admiringly upon
her. "Certainly I must be losing my senses to imagine these men in love with me: it's preposterous."

Mr. Brown put the matter at rest, as far as he was concerned, for one day, as she returned
from a walk, he accosted her on the veranda, and with a series of the most violent grimaces
and gesticulations, his eyes flashing, his face working in every possible direction, he told
her that he was dèsolè: his life depended upon her. He was so odd and absurd in his avowal
that she burst out laughing: then, as she beheld an indignant, inquiring expression on his
honest red countenance, she grew frightened, sank on a seat and wept hysterically. This encouraged
him: he sat down beside her and exclaimed, "Dear mees"--and he peered at her blandly--"your
life is empty: so is mine. Let it be for me--oh, so beautiful!"--and he spread out his little
fat hands with rapture--"to comfort and console one heavenly existence, ensemble." He placed
a hand on each stout knee and gazed benignly down upon her.

She hung her head as sheepishly as if she returned the little foreigner's affection--afraid
of wounding him, she was speechless--when at this unlucky moment Colonel Pinckney, coming suddenly
round the house, walked up the steps. She saw him glance at her--Mr. Brown's back was toward
him--and a smile he evidently couldn't restrain stole over his face.

"Oh, Mr. Brown, I'm so sorry!" she found courage at length to say. "You are very kind--you've
always been kind to me from the moment I entered the house--but indeed you must never speak
on this subject again." She shook hands with him in her embarrassment, apparently as a proof
of friendship, then ran into the house.

"Virginia, what do you think has happened to me?" cried Colonel Pinckney, bursting into his
sister-in-law's room, which he seldom invaded. "Yesterday, as I came up the steps, I surprised
Mr. Brown, who was offering himself--bad English, poverty and all--to Miss Featherstone. This
minute--by George!--I stumbled into the dining-room, and there is Doctor Harris going through
the same performance."

"Sit down and tell me all about it," exclaimed Mrs. Pinckney, her curiosity overcoming her pique.

"Each time," continued Colonel Pinckney, "the lover's back was turned toward me, while I had
a most distinct view of Miss Featherstone, who was blushing, hanging her head and looking as
distressed as possible, poor little soul!"

"Why! won't she accept the doctor?" said Mrs. Pinckney with animation.

"It didn't look like it. I couldn't hear what he said, but his back had a hopeless expression.
Did you know that she came from one of the best families in Philadelphia, that most aristocratic
of cities, and that they were very wealthy? Her only brother was killed in the war, and she
is the sole unfortunate survivor."

"She might do many a worse thing than marry Doctor Harris: he is well educated and a gentleman."

"She could do a better thing, and that is to marry me," exclaimed the colonel. "I'm going to
give her a chance, and will tell you the result immediately. I wonder who'll stumble in upon
my wooing?" and with mirthful eyes he darted out of the room.

"I never knew a man so changed," soliloquized Mrs. Pinckney. "He used to be haughty and reserved:
now he talks a great deal, uses slang expressions and romps and plays with the children like
any ordinary mortal. One can never tell whether he is in earnest or not. I don't believe he'd
have told me if he'd really meant to offer himself."

A day or two afterward Miss Featherstone had occasion to go to town. It was exceedingly inconvenient,
for she was needed everywhere as usual, but gloves and boots must be replenished, even by impecunious
heroines. As she came down Colonel Pinckney handed her into the carriage and followed her.
She felt a little annoyed, but supposed he was driving only to the station: however, he sent
the coachman home, and when the cars came up he entered and took his seat beside her.

"You look depressed, Miss Featherstone: I hope that my going to New York meets with your approbation?
I've been neglecting a thousand necessary matters, and the pleasure of your company to-day
gave me the necessary incentive."

He was so frank as to his motives that Miss Featherstone laid aside her reserve in a measure,
and became communicative. "Everything has changed, Colonel Pinckney," she said with a sigh.
"Mrs. Pinckney has grown decidedly cool, and I think you have opened my eyes so that I don't
love her quite as much as I did. I am sorry: I should rather have been blind. Then--" She paused,
feeling that her confidences must go no further.

"Then," he continued, "it makes it very embarrassing that the tutor and family physician should
both have fallen in love with you."

"I think of leaving," she continued, neither admitting nor contradicting his assertion. "Forgive
me: you have spoken from the best motives, but I think you have made trouble," she added hesitatingly.
"Mrs. Pinckney is now continually on the alert to prevent my working; she will no longer let
little Harry sleep in my room; she orders the dinner for the first time since I've been in
the house; the children are swooped off by Adèle as soon as their school-hours are over; and
everything is odd, strange and uncomfortable. I think I must go away. I wrote an advertisement
to put in the papers: perhaps you could do it for me?" she said timidly: "I dread going to
the offices."

"Certainly," he replied courteously, and put it in his pocket.

Colonel Pinckney appeared to share her depression, and he sat for some time silent: then he
said in an agitated voice, "It will be a sorrowful day for that house when you leave it: I
never knew such a transformation as you have effected. Until this winter my only associations
with it have been of dirt, gloom and disorder: the children were neglected and fretful, the
dinners shocking and ill served; and this with an army of servants and money spent ad libitum.
Now, on the contrary, the rooms are fresh, cheerful and agreeable; there are pleasant odors,
bright fires, attractive meals; the children perfect both in appearance and manner; and all
this owing to the influence--perhaps I ought to say labors--of one young, inexperienced girl.
I've always imagined I disliked efficient women: I've changed my mind. When I was young a fair,
indolent creature, always well dressed and smiling, was my beau ideal: now a brunette, bright
and energetic--some one who never thinks of herself, but is making everybody else happy and
comfortable--this is my present divinity." He smiled tenderly upon her.

Miss Featherstone endeavored to shake off her embarrassment. He was a frank, kind-hearted man,
entirely unlike his sister-in-law's idea of him, with an exaggerated gratitude for her exertions
in his brother's family. She would not be so silly as to imagine every man was being transformed
into a lover. "You are kinder to me than I deserve," she said, then changed the conversation.

She expected to meet him as she took the train to return, but he was nowhere to be seen. He
did not even appear when the train stopped, and she had a solitary drive to the house.

"Did you know that Dick had gone?" said Mrs. Pinckney at the dinner-table, levelling scrutinizing
glances from her lovely blue eyes.

"No," answered the governess with sudden depression and embarrassment: "he said nothing about
leaving this morning. You know Colonel Pinckney went to New York in the train that I did."

"You didn't see him after your arrival?"

"No: he put me on a car and left me."

"I suspect it was an after-thought," said Mrs. Pinckney. "I had a telegram, directing me to
send on his travelling-bag by express: the rest of his luggage was to be left until further
orders.--Is it possible that she has refused him?" thought Mrs. Pinckney behind her fan. She
was occupying her usual seat by the fire: Miss Featherstone was in a low chair, with Harry
on her lap, the other children hanging about her. She was telling them a story, but they were
not as well entertained as usual. The young governess was unlike herself to-night, and little
touches, dramatic effects and gay inflections of the voice were lacking.

A month passed, and nothing had been heard from Colonel Pinckney. "He might have written just
one line," said his sister-in-law querulously. She was in her favorite position, propped up
by pillows on the bed, Miss Featherstone at her side waiting to receive orders, for gradually
all her old duties had been permitted to slip back into her willing hands. "Certainly he seemed
to enjoy himself when he was here; yet not one line of thanks or remembrance have I received.
I heard," she said mysteriously, "that Dick was very devoted to Miss Livingstone at Saratoga
last summer--there's no end to the women who have been in love with him: perhaps this sudden
move has something to do with her. Nothing but a great emergency can excuse him," petulantly.

That day, for the first time, the children wearied Miss Featherstone, and she carried them
in a body to Adèle, saying that she had a violent headache and was going out in the garden
for a walk. As she paced slowly up and down the tears fell over her pale cheeks. The only window
from which she could be seen was Mrs. Pinckney's, and that lady, she knew, was too much absorbed
in her own sensations to give her a thought. "How I despise myself!" she murmured, "how degraded
I am in my own eyes! Can I ever recover my self-respect? I'm so miserable that I should like
to die because Colonel Pinckney has left the house, and"--she hesitated--"because his sister-in-law
thinks he was drawn away by Miss Livingstone, Oh!"--and she groaned and clasped her hands frantically
together--"and all this agony for a man who has never uttered a word of love to me!" Here a
remembrance of his whole air and manner rather contradicted this thought. "Everything wearies
me: I am actually impatient of the children, and when Mrs. Pinckney wails and complains I can
scarcely listen with decency. I want to burst out upon her and say, 'You silly, tiresome woman!
you have had your dream of love and your husband; you have still four dear children; you have
a home, plenty of money, hosts of friends, besides youth and good looks; while I am--oh, how
desolate!'"

This imaginary attack upon Mrs. Pinckney seemed to comfort her somewhat, for she dried her
tears and tried to form a plan of action: "He evidently didn't put my advertisement in the
paper, for I've looked in vain for it. I must go away where I shall never see Colonel Pinckney
again. I'll stifle, throttle, this miserable love, and endeavor once more to be enduring and
courageous."

Just then the house-door opened: some one walked down the veranda steps and came rapidly in
her direction.

"I have been looking everywhere for you," cried Colonel Pinckney; and he seized both her hands:
"no one seemed to know where you had gone."

The bright color rose in her cheeks, and in spite of her resolve her eyes beamed with delight.
She murmured inarticulately that she had told Adèle, then relapsed into silence.

"I have to implore your forgiveness for neglecting to obey as to the advertisement, but the
truth is----" and he hesitated--"I have a plan. It may not meet with your concurrence," he
added, "but I wished to submit it before you made other and irrevocable arrangements."

"You have thought of some position for me?" she forced herself to say, all the bloom and delight
vanishing from her face.

"Yes. I know an individual who wants precisely such a person as you are, for--a wife."

"Colonel Pinckney!" she exclaimed indignantly.

"Do forgive me, dear Miss Featherstone. I am such a confounded poltroon"--and he seized her
hands again--"that I dare not risk my fate; but that person is"--and he looked down upon her,
his heart beating so violently that he could scarcely speak--"that person is--myself!"

Of what happened then Mrs. Pinckney, roused by her brother-in-law's return, was cognizant,
for actually, in the open air, with her blue eyes bent eagerly upon them, he clasped the governess
in his arms. "It is a fact accomplished!" cried the fair widow with a sigh, and sank back upon
her pillows.

THE HOME OF THE GENTIANS.

  There is a lonesome hamlet of the dead
    Spread on a high ridge, up above a lake--
  A quiet meadow-slope, unfrequented,
    Where in the wind a thousand wild flowers shake.

  But most of all, the delicate gentian here,
    Serenely blue as the sweet eyes of Hope,
  Doth prosper in th' untroubled atmosphere,
    Where wide its fringèd eyelids love to ope.

  You cannot set a foot upon the ground
    On warm September noons, in this old croft,
  But there some satiny blossom crushed is found,
    Swift springing up to look again aloft.

  Prized! sung of poets! sought for singly where
    Adventurous feet may hardly dare to climb!
  Here, scattered lavishly and without care,
    In all the sweet luxuriance of their prime.

  Ah! how the yellow-thighed, brown-coated bee
    Dives prodigally into those blue deeps
  Of glistening, odorless satin fair to see,
    And soon forgetting wherefore, trancèd, sleeps!

  And how the golden butterflies skim over,
    And poise, all fondly, on these lifted lips,
  Leaving the riches of the sweet red clover
    For the blue gentians' fine and fairy tips!

  Beautiful wildlings, proud, refined and shy!
    Mysteries ye are, have been, and yet shall be:
  The secrets of your being in ye lie,
    And no man yet hath found their hidden key.

  Might we not laugh at our world's vaunted lore,
    For ever boasting, "This, and this, I know"?
  Not all the science of its hard-won store
    Can make one single fringèd gentian grow.
                                              --HOWARD GLYNDON.

NEWPORT A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

There is a magnetism in places which has as strong and subtle a potency as that which belongs
to certain persons. Newport, Rhode Island, is not an inapt example of the class of which I
speak. The wonderful mildness of the air, coupled with its exhilarating qualities; the fertility
of the soil, which throws tropical vegetation over the stern realism of crag and precipice;
the mixture of the wildest features of Nature with its softest and most intoxicating influences,--all
these anomalies, unexplained even by the proximity of the itself inexplicable Gulf Stream,
combine to form a perfect and most desirable whole. Nor is this description over-colored or
the offshoot of the latter-day caprice that has made of the place a fashionable resort. The
very name of the State suggests that of a classic island famed for its atmosphere; and as Verrazano,
writing in 1524, compares Block Island to Rhodes, it is possible that hence arose its title.
Neal in 1717, and the Abbé Robin in 1771, both speak of Newport as the Paradise of New England,
and endorse its Indian appellation, Aquidneck, or the Isle of Peace. Berkeley, dean of Derry,
who came here in 1729 full of zealous but utopian plans of proselytism, writes of it that "the
climate is warmer than Italy, and far preferable to Bermuda" (his original destination). Indeed,
it is to the good man's enthusiasm for Newport that we owe his burst of poetical prophecy,
"Westward the course of empire takes its way."

If the staid and reverend Berkeley, he whom Swift, writing to Lord Carteret, recommends as
"one of the first men in the kingdom for learning and virtue," and of whom Pope exclaims, "To
Berkeley every virtue under heaven," found here this fascination, what wonder that more excitable
pilgrims of Latin blood made of it a Mecca? The French particularly came often to Newport in
early colonial days, and have left jottings of their stay and the pleasure it afforded them.
Monsieur de Crèvecoeur visited it in 1772, and found delight in its natural beauties. He notes
the bay and harbor, the approach to which he considers remarkably fine, and admires the acacia
and plane trees which line the roads, all of which, unfortunately, were destroyed during the
Revolution. The young attaché of the French legation of to-day, who chafes at the diplomatic
duties which delay his shaking off the dust of Washington for the delights of Newport, hardly
comprehends how much heredity has to do with his appreciation of it. He does not stop to think,
as he sips his post-prandial coffee at Hartman's window, of the line of French chivalry that
a century ago made their favorite promenade by the spot where he now sits. His mind, running
on Mrs. A----'s ball or Mrs. B----'s lawn-tennis, is far from dreaming of the irresistible
De Lauzun, the gallant De Fersen, a fugitive from the love of a queen, but destined to serve
her as lackey in her need, the two handsome Viosmenils, the baron Cromot du Bourg, the duc
de Deux-Ponts, or any of the brilliant cortége of a bygone day. But what memories the mere
enumeration of their names brings up! Rank and valor were the heritage of all of them, an heroic
but unhappy end the fate of most. Who can say that the aroma of their presence does not still
linger round the old town, up and down the narrow streets where they passed with gay jests
and clanking sword, or in the quaint mansions, still peeping out from behind century-old hedges,
where they left the record of their graces in the heart of their host and of their loves on
his window-pane? What can be pleasanter than for the American pen to linger over the page of
history that chronicles the generous sympathy which brought this fine flower of France to our
shores? Where is the heart, even in our cynical nineteenth century, which holds enthusiasm
an anachronism, that does not thrill at the recollection of the chivalry that quitted the luxury
and revels of Versailles to dare the dangers of an ocean-voyage (then no ten-day pleasure-trip)
for a cause that still hung in the balances of success? Viewed practically, the help offered
was even more deserving of praise. The French are not an adventurous nation: they are not fond
of travelling. Hugo says Paris is the world, and to the average Frenchman it embodies the world
it comprises: it is the world. Expatriated, he would rather dwell, like the poet, on a barren
island within sight of the shores of France than seek or find new worlds to conquer. It must
therefore be conceded that the sentiment which brought us our allies in 1780 was a hearty one,
nor had they encouragement from the example of others; for, although La Fayette, young and
full of ardor, had fired the hearts of his compatriots, and made it the fashion to help us
even before the alliance in 1778, yet the expedition of that year under the comte d'Estaing
had been an utter failure. There was, however, a strong incentive which brought the young nobles
of the time to us, and that was the one which the old philosopher declared to be at the bottom
of every case--a woman. In this particular instance the prestige was heightened by the fact
that she was also a queen. Marie Antoinette was then at the zenith of her beauty and power.
The timid, shrinking dauphiness, forced to the arms of an unwilling husband, himself a mere
cipher, had expanded into a fascinating woman, reigning triumphantly over the court and the
affections of her vacillating spouse. The birth, after years of wedlock, of several children
completed her conquest and gave her the dominion she craved, and she now threw her influence
unreservedly into the balance for the American colonies, little dreaming she was therein laying
the first stone toward her own ruin.

On the 6th of February, 1778, the treaty between the United States and France was signed, followed
in July of the same year by a declaration from the king protecting neutral ships, although
bound for hostile ports and carrying contraband goods. Meanwhile, on the 13th of April, the
French fleet had sailed from Toulon under the command of D'Estaing, who had with him on the
Languedoc, his flagship, a regularly appointed envoy, Girard de Rayneville, who had full power
to recognize the independence of the States, Silas Deane, one of the American commissioners,
and such well-known officers as the comte de la Motte-Piquet, the Bailli de Suffren, De Guichen,
D'Orvilliers, De Grasse and others. The history of this first expedition is a short and disastrous
one. The voyage was long, owing to the ships being unequally matched in speed, and it was ninety
days after leaving Toulon before they anchored in Delaware Bay. D'Estaing had hoped to surprise
Lord Howe, who was guarding the mouth of the Delaware to strengthen the position of Sir Henry
Clinton at Philadelphia, but when the fleet arrived Clinton had evacuated Philadelphia, and
was in the harbor of New York. Here the French admiral followed him, but, finding no pilots
at Sandy Hook willing to take him over the bar, he on Washington's recommendation proceeded
to Rhode Island to co-operate with Sullivan, who was in command of the army there, which was
divided into two brigades under Generals Greene and La Fayette. On the 29th of July, 1778,
the French fleet appeared off Newport, to the delight of the inhabitants, who were suffering
from the English occupation, and saw in prospect an end to their troubles. But, alas! their
joy was premature. Sullivan was so slow in moving that the moment for action was lost. Lord
Howe, having received reinforcements, appeared off Point Judith, where D'Estaing tried to meet
and give him battle; but a hurricane coming up, both fleets were obliged to spend their energies
in saving themselves from destruction, and before the storm passed the French ships were so
scattered that all hope of success had to be abandoned. D'Estaing found himself on the 13th
of August separated from his convoy, and his ship, Le Languedoc, bereft of rudder and masts,
forced to an encounter with three English vessels. His fleet rallied round him, but it was
too late after a disastrous action to do anything but repair damages: in fact, Lord Howe had
already reached Sandy Hook. D'Estaing appeared off Newport on the 20th to announce that he
should be obliged by instructions to go to Boston for provisions and water, and thus ended
the first visit of the French to Newport, to the dismay of the inhabitants. Sullivan criticised
D'Estaing severely, but was obliged by La Fayette to retract: indeed, it is a question whether
the fault of failure lay in Sullivan's procrastination or in want of judgment on the part of
the French commander, who nevertheless, on his return to France, interested himself to induce
the government to send out twelve thousand men to America. La Fayette also, through his friendship
with Vergennes, exerted himself toward the same end, the proposition being not unfavorably
received by the government, which merely demurred as to the number of troops required. Before
leaving France, however, La Fayette had secured full consent to the expedition, and on him
devolved the grateful task of bearing to Congress and Washington the news of the co-operation
of that country. The fleet was prepared at Brest, and was placed under Admiral de Ternay, the
command of the troops being given to the comte de Rochambeau, not through court favor, but
in consideration of the affection of the army for him.

Jean Baptiste de Vimeur, comte de Rochambeau and marshal of France, was born in Vendôme in
1725. At sixteen he served under the maréchal de Broglie, was afterward aide to the duc d'Orléans,
and distinguished himself in the battles of Crevelt, Minden, Closterkamp and Corbach, being
seriously wounded several times. A thorough soldier, Rochambeau possessed not only courage,
but a clear, practical eye, accompanied by foresight and judgment. His memoirs show him to
have taken more kindly to the camp than the court, and outside of war to have been fond of
the sports of a country gentleman. His appearance in Trumbull's picture of the surrender of
Cornwallis shows us more of a Cincinnatus than of an Alexander. He was reserved in his manner,
even with his officers, and De Fersen, writing to his father, complains of it, acknowledging,
however, that it was shown less with him than with others. Later on he does Rochambeau justice,
and says: "His example had its effect on the army, and the severe orders he gave restrained
everybody and enforced that discipline which was the admiration of the Americans and of the
English who witnessed it. The wise, prudent and simple conduct of M. de Rochambeau has done
more to conciliate America to us than the gain of four battles."

With this representative soldier of his time came so fine a showing of the noblesse of France,
fresh from the most brilliant court of Europe, that they are worth a short description. They
are interesting, if from nothing else, from the fact that they are the men who appear on the
page of history one day steeped in the enervating luxury and intrigue of Versailles and Marly,
the next fighting and dying with the courage of the lionhearted Henri de la Rochejaquelin in
Vendée, leaving as an epitaph on their whole generation the words of the Chouan chief, "Allons
chercher l'ennemi! Si je recule, tuez moi; si j'avance, suivez moi; si je meurs, vengez moi!"
Never even in Napoleon's campaigns, where each man had as incentive a name and fortune to carve,
was there such a race of soldiers as these same aristocrats.

First and foremost, let us mention Armand Louis de Gontaut, duc de Lauzun, the duc de Biron
of the Vendée. He was the gayest gallant of the time, and whether with the Polish princess
Czartoriski, the beautiful Lady Sarah Bunbury--George III.'s admiration as he saw her making
hay at Holland House--Mesdames de Stainville and de Coig and the rollicking actresses of the
Comédie Française, or Mrs. Robinson (the prince of Wales's "Perdita,"), seems to have had universal
success. We except the record that gives him the love of Marie Antoinette. To him was entrusted
in this expedition the legion that bore his name, with Count Arthur Dillon as coadjutor. The
maréchals-de-camp were the two brothers Viosmenil, celebrated for their beauty, and the marquis
de Chastelleux, a member of the Institute and possessed of some literary merit. He had written
a piece called La Félicité publique, which drew from the wits of the day the following epigram:

  À Chastelleux la place académique:
  Qu' a-t-il donc fait? Un livre bien conçu.
  Vous l'appelez La Félicité publique;
  Le public fut heureux, car il n'en a rien su.

He printed twenty-four impressions of his travels in America by the aid of a printing-press
on the squadron, the first record of a book having been published privately in the colonies.
The aides of De Rochambeau were the handsome Swede Count de Fersen, the marquis de Vauban,
Charles de Lamette (who fought a famous duel in the Bois de Boulogne with the duc de Castries),
De Dumas and De Laubedières: De Tarli was intendant. The list of officers comprised such historic
names as those of the marquis de Laval-Montmorenci, the duc de Deux-Ponts (colonel of the regiment
raised in Alsace that bore his name), his two brothers, Vicomte de Chartres, De Custine, D'Olonne,
De Montesquieu and the vicomte de Noailles. The last named had, as ambassador to England, the
task entrusted to him of bearing to Lord Weymouth the news of the French alliance with America.

The fleet which appeared off Newport on the 11th of July, 1780, comprised seven ships of the
line--the Duc de Bourgogne, Neptune, Conquérant, Provence, Eveillé, Jason and Ardent--the frigates
Surveillante, Amazone and Gentille, the corvette Fantasque (which was a hospital-ship) and
the cutter La Guêpe. There were thirty-two transports with the expeditionary corps of five
thousand men. Admiral de Ternay, wisely profiting by D'Estaing's experience, lost no time in
reaching his destination. He was welcomed by the sight of the French flag planted both on Point
Judith and Newport Point, this being the signal agreed on with La Fayette that all was well.
Only a few days later he would have been intercepted by an English squadron, Admiral Graves
having sailed from Portsmouth early in the season, intending to prevent the French reaching
Newport, but his plans were deranged by the bad weather. The squadron entered the beautiful
harbor of Newport with flying flags and pennons bright with the golden fleur-de-lys of France.

From the earliest days of the colony Newport had taken a prominent place in its history. Its
natural advantages had early singled it out for both commercial and social distinction. One
of the first governors, Coddington, was its original settler. An openly-avowed freedom from
prejudice was among the first declared principles of Rhode Island. Quakers and Jews were gladly
received, and while the former brought with them the temperance and moderation peculiar to
their tenets, the latter grafted on Newport commerce the spirit of enterprise which made the
town celebrated in colonial annals for its prosperity and importance. The Jewish merchants
were men of good origin, fine presence and character. They were many of them of high birth
in Spain and Portugal, and they have bequeathed to posterity a record of stately hospitality
and unblemished integrity. The names of Lopez, Riviera, Seixas and Touro are honored and respected
still in their former home, and the fine arch that towers over the gay promenade of to-day
gives entrance to their last resting-place, so solemn and so majestic a home of the dead that
it drew from the Nestor of American poets a stirring apostrophe to the manes of the dead sons
of Israel. The fine harbor and bay of Newport soon attracted commerce from all nations, which
heaped its wharves with riches and made princes and magnates of its merchants--a position they
seemed born to sustain. The Overings, Bannisters, Malbones and Redwoods kept open house and
exercised lavish hospitality--witness, as told by the Newport Herald of June 7, 1766, the story
of Colonel Godfrey Malbone's feast on the lawn of his burning mansion, so fine an edifice that
its cost had been a hundred thousand dollars in 1744; but the house taking fire at the time
he had invited guests to dinner, he thus feasted rather than disappoint them, and all through
the long summer night they held high revel and pledged each other in jovial toasts while the
flames of the burning building illumined these Sardanapalian orgies. Year after year added
to the importance of this city by the sea: year after year the Indies poured into its warehouses
the riches with which Newport, out of its abundance, dowered New York, Boston and Hartford
and ornamented and enriched the stately homes of its merchants. There is, however, one blot
on its scutcheon--one which darkens the picture of this prosperity and the means that helped
make it--and that is the slave-trade. Yes, the town which was to give birth to William Ellery
Channing was one of the first to become interested in this baleful traffic. It is true it was
denounced by the Legislature, which as early as 1652 made it penal to hold slaves, yet statistics
show that between 1730 and 1752 the return cargoes of all ships from the West Indies consisted
of them. The slave-trade of Newport bore fruit in other evils. At this time there were no less
than forty distilleries at work, and this rum, exported to Africa, bought and brought home
the human freight. However, in 1774 the importation was prohibited, and all male children born
after 1784 were declared to be free.

Nowhere was there a more courtly and elegant society than in Newport. The rules of etiquette
were rigorously adhered to, and there was no jesting on so sacred a topic as the honor and
respect due to those whom the good rector of Trinity was wont to allude to as moving in higher
spheres. De Ségur a year or two later says of it: "Other parts of America were only beautiful
by anticipation, but Rhode Island was complete. Newport, well and regularly built, contained
a numerous population, whose happiness was indicated by its prosperity. It offered delightful
circles composed of enlightened men and modest and handsome women, whose talents heightened
their personal attractions." To-day, Newport is the rendezvous of the best society of the land.
Handsome women and clever men meet and greet there, but can the society be more distinguished
than, from this description, it must have been a century ago? We wonder if the stately dames
who in the eighteenth century held court here would quite approve of the laissez-aller of modern
intercourse. The youth of to-day, whose highest praise for his fair partner of the cotillon
is often that she is "an awfully good fellow," has little kinship with his ancestor, who used
to wait at the street-corner to see the object of his devotion go by under the convoy of her
father and mother and a couple of faithful colored footmen, thinking himself happy meanwhile
if his divinity gave him a shy glance. The gay girl of the period, who scampers in her pony
chaise down the avenue from one engagement to the other, and whose most sacred confidence is
apt to be that she adores horses and loves "pottering about the stable," is, with all her charms,
quite different from the blushing little beauty of 1780, who in powdered hair, quilted petticoat
and high, red-heeled shoes gave her lover a modest little glance at the street-corner, thinking
it a most delicious and unforeseen bit of romance to have a lover at all. But other times other
manners, and nineteenth-century men and women are no doubt as charming in their way as were
our pretty ancestresses and their gallants of a century ago.

The prosperity of Newport received a check from the Revolution. The English occupation resulted
in a vandalism that destroyed the fine mansions, turned public buildings, and even Trinity
Church, into barracks for the soldiers and stables for their horses, laid waste the country,
cut down the trees and obliterated the landmarks. Thus the French found it, and they were welcomed
as possible deliverers and defenders from the English rule. Rochambeau and his staff reached
Newport in the frigate Hermione on the afternoon of the 11th of July, and the next day the
troops were landed, many of them being ill and all in need of rest after the long voyage and
cramped quarters. The forts were put in possession of the French, who proceeded to remodel
them into a better condition to resist a siege. General Heath, hearing at Providence the news
of the arrival of the fleet, came down to Newport to greet Rochambeau, whom he met on shore,
going afterward on board the Duc de Bourgogne to see the admiral, who in return saluted the
town with thirteen guns. On the evening of the 12th Rochambeau dined with General Heath, a
grand illumination of the town taking place afterward, and each day saw some new festivity
to welcome the guests who had made the American cause their own. The army had been stationed
across the island guarding the town, the right toward the ships and the left upon the sea,
Rochambeau thus carefully covering the position of his vessels by the batteries. Everything
was en fête. The people were delighted with the manners and courtly polish of the French. Robin
says of the discipline insisted on at Newport, "The officers employed politeness and amenity,
the common soldiers became mild, circumspect and moderate." The French at Newport were no longer
the frivolous race, presumptuous, noisy, full of fatuity, they were reputed to be. They lived
quietly and retired, limiting their society to their hosts, to whom every day they became dearer.
These young nobles of birth and fortune, to whom a sojourn at court must have given a taste
for dissipation and luxury, were the first to set an example of frugality and simplicity of
life. They showed themselves affable, popular, as if they had never lived but with men who
were on an equality. Every one was won, even the Tories, and their departure saddened even
more than their arrival had alarmed. Rochambeau also alludes to the discipline of the army,
and says: "It was due to the zeal of the generals and superior officers, and above all to the
goodwill of the soldiers. It contributed not a little to make the State of Rhode Island acquiesce
in the proposition I made it, to repair at our expense the mansions which the English had mutilated,
so that they might serve as barracks for the soldiers if the inhabitants would lodge the officers.
We spent twenty thousand crowns in repairing the houses, and left in the place many marks of
the generosity of France toward its allies."

We have before us an old plan of Newport in 1777, and a list of the officers' hosts. We find
the general quartered at 302 New lane, corner of Clark and Mary streets. Its proprietor, William
Hunter, was president of the Eastern Navy Board at Boston and an earnest upholder of the rights
of the colonies. The gallant and all-conquering Lauzun was at the widow Deborah Hunter's, No.
264 Thames street. Mrs. Hunter was the mother of two charming daughters, whom Lauzun eulogizes
in his journal. His praise has been often quoted, yet it is worth repeating, as it shows this
Lovelace in a new and pleasing light. He says: "Mrs. Hunter is a widow of thirty-six who has
two daughters, whom she has well brought up. She conceived a friendship for me, and I was treated
like one of the family. I passed my time there. I was ill, and she took care of me. I was not
in love with the Misses Hunter, but had they been my sisters I could not have been fonder of
them." The two Viosmenils and their aides were at Joseph Wanton's, in Thames street. The Wantons
had been governors of Rhode Island from 1732: Joseph Wanton was the last governor under the
Crown. He is described as wearing a large white wig with three curls--one falling down his
back and one forward over each shoulder. De Chastelleux lodged with Captain Maudsly, at No.
91 Spring street; De Choisy at Jacob Riviera's in Water street; the marquis de Laval and the
vicomte de Noailles at Thomas Robinson's, in Water street; the marquis de Custine, the commander
of the regiment Saintonge, at Joseph Durfey's, 312 Griffin street; Colonel Malbone entertained
Lieutenant-Colonel de Querenel at No. 83 Thames street; while Colonel John Malbone was the
host of the commandant Desandrouins, the colonel of the engineers, at No. 28 of the same street;
William Coggeshall of No. 135 Thames street had the baron de Turpin and De Plancher for guests;
De Fersen and the marquis de Darnas were at the house of Robert Stevens, and De Laubedières
and Baron de Closen at that of Henry Potter, both in New lane; Madame McKay, 115 Lewis street,
quartered De Lintz and Montesquieu; Joseph Antony, at 339 Spring street, Dumas; and Edward
Hazard, of 271 Lewis street, the two D'Olonnes. Admiral de Ternay was much on his ship, but
lodged at Colonel Wanton's in Water street; his captains, De la Chaise and Destouches, were
at Abraham Redwood's, 78 Thames street.

On the 21st of July, Admirals Graves and Arbuthnot arrived off the harbor with eleven vessels--one
of ninety, six of seventy-four, three of sixty-four, and one of fifty guns. The following day
the number was increased to nineteen, and from this time the French squadron was effectually
blockaded in Newport. Although doubt seems to have been felt by some as to the good intentions
of the French army, the general feeling on their arrival was one of joy. On Sunday, the 15th,
the intelligence became known in Philadelphia, where Congress was then sitting. Washington
ordered the soldiers to wear a black-and-white cockade as a symbol of the alliance, the American
cockade being black and the French white, but seems withal to have felt nervous and impatient
for some decisive action. He sent La Fayette to Newport to urge Rochambeau to make an attack
on New York, but the latter replied that he expected from the admiral de Guichen, who commanded
the West India squadron, five ships of war, and declined to take any steps until his army was
in better condition. La Fayette, who was young and full of ardor, was hardly pleased with Rochambeau's
caution, but apologized for his impetuosity on the ground of disliking to see the French troops
shut up in Newport while there was so much to be done. To this Rochambeau replied that he had
an experience of forty years, and that of fifteen thousand men who had been killed and wounded
under his orders he could not reproach himself with the loss of a single person killed on his
account. He desired, however, a personal interview with Washington--a request which from some
reason the commander-in-chief did not seem anxious to grant. There was at times a coolness
in the relations between Rochambeau and Washington, arising perhaps from a different estimate
of La Fayette; but the cloud, if there was any, was never very perceptible or of any long duration.
On the 21st of August a committee of the General Assembly of the State, at that time in session
at Newport, presented Rochambeau and De Ternay with a formal address of welcome. De Rochambeau's
reply was full of manliness and good-will. He said, "The French troops are restrained by the
strictest discipline, and, acting under General Washington, will live with the Americans as
their brethren. I assure the General Assembly that as brethren not only my life, but the lives
of the troops under my command, are entirely devoted to their service." This frank avowal dissipated
a fear felt by some that the French might have some ulterior motive in coming to the assistance
of the colonies.

It is not to be supposed that the belles of Newport were indifferent to the advent of these
fascinating French paladins, or that the gallant Gauls were unmoved by the beauty and grace
of the Newport women. With one accord they joined in admiration of their fair hostesses, not
only for their charms of face and figure, but for the purity and innocence of their characters,
which made a deep impression on these Sybarites, accustomed as they were to the atmosphere
of intrigue and vice peculiar to the French court of the day. We find the record of this enthusiasm
in the letters and journals of the officers, but for a picture of the special belles of the
time there is none more correct than that furnished by the prince de Broglie and the comte
de Ségur, who visited Newport the following year. They note particularly Miss Champlin, the
daughter of a rich merchant who lived at No. 119 Thames street. Mr. Champlin had large shipping
interests, which he managed with great enterprise. At his house De Broglie was introduced by
De Vauban, who as aide to De Rochambeau had met all the Newport notables, and the prince writes:
"Mr. Champlin was known for his wealth, but more for the lovely face of his daughter. She was
not in the room when we entered, but appeared a moment after. She had beautiful eyes, an agreeable
mouth, a lovely face, a fine figure, a pretty foot, and the general effect was attractive.
She added to these advantages that of being charmingly coiffée in the Paris style, besides
which she spoke and understood our language." Of the Hunters, Lauzun's hostesses, De Broglie
says: "The elder, without being regularly handsome, had a noble appearance and an aristocratic
air. She was graceful, intellectual and refined. Her toilette was as finished as Miss Champlin's,
but she was not as fresh, in spite of what De Fersen said. The younger, Nancy Hunter, is not
so modish, but a perfect rosebud. Her character is gay: she is always laughing, and has beautiful
teeth--a thing not common in America." But Vauban, who on this occasion acted as master of
ceremonies, promised the prince a greater treat for the morrow, and took him on that day to
a house on the corner of Touro street and the Park, where they found a serious and silent old
gentleman, who received them without compliment or raising his hat and answered their questions
in monosyllables. The lively Frenchmen would have made a short visit had not the door opened
and a young girl entered; and here De Broglie's own raptures must speak: "It was Minerva herself
who had exchanged her warlike vestments for the charms of a simple shepherdess. She was the
daughter of a Shaking Quaker. Her headdress was a simple cap of fine muslin plaited and passed
round her head, which gave Polly the effect of the Holy Virgin." Yes, this was Polly Lawton
(or Leighton), the very pearl of Newport beauties, of whom the prince says in continuation:
"She enchanted us all, and, though evidently a little conscious of it, was not at all sorry
to please those whom she graciously called her friends. I confess that this seductive Lawton
appeared to me a chef-d'oeuvre of Nature, and in recalling her image I am tempted to write
a book against the finery, the factitious graces and the coquetry of many ladies whom the world
admires." Ségur says: "She was a nymph rather than a woman, and had the most graceful figure
and beautiful form possible. Her eyes appeared to reflect as in a mirror the meekness and purity
of her mind and the goodness of her heart." Polly chides the count, according to the rules
of her faith, for coming in obedience to the king, against the command of God, to make war.
"What could I reply to such an angel?" says the entranced Frenchman, "for she seemed to me
a celestial being. Certainly, had I not been married and happy in my own country I should,
while coming to defend the liberty of the Americans, have lost my own at the feet of Polly
Lawton." We fear the comtesse de Ségur would hardly have relished her lord's raptures over
the pretty Quakeress, and would have quite approved of Rochambeau's order which sent him back
to his post.

Among this bevy of Continental beauties, to whom we may add the names of the lovely Miss Redwood--to
whose charms sailors in the street would doff their hats, holding them low till she had passed--the
two Miss Ellerys, Miss Sylven, Miss Brinley, Miss Robinson and others, it is not wonderful
that the French officers bore patiently the enforced blockade. They indulged in constant festivities,
to which they invited their fair enslavers. A deputation of Indians, numbering nineteen and
consisting of members of the Tuscarora, Caghnawgas and Oneida tribes, visited the camp on the
2d of August. They were cordially received by Rochambeau, who gave them a dinner at which they
were reported to have behaved well. After dining with General Heath they performed their war-dance,
which was a novel and interesting sight to the French officers. As a return for this entertainment
the French army gave a grand review, preceded by firing of cannon. The sight must have been
a fine one. The regiments were among the flower of European chivalry, some of them of historical
celebrity, such as the regiment of Auvergne, whose motto was "Sans tache" and one of whose
captains, the famous D'Assas, is said to have saved a whole brigade at the expense of his life,
crying, as he saw the enemy approaching on his unsuspecting comrades, "À moi Auvergne! voilà
les ennemis!" and fell dead. The uniforms of the troops were most effective. The officers wore
white cockades and the colors of their regiments faced with white cloth. The Bourbonnais regiment
was in black and red, Saintonge in white and green, Deux-Ponts in white; the Soissonnais wore
pink facings and grenadier caps with pink and white plumes, while the artillery were in blue
with red facings. The savages were delighted with the pageant, but in spite of its splendor
expressed more astonishment at seeing trees loaded with fruit hanging over tents which the
soldiers had occupied for months than at anything else. They took their departure in September,
being presented with blankets and other gifts by Rochambeau.

Perhaps the finest display was that which celebrated the French king's birthday on Friday,
the 25th of August. The ships were decorated with the flags of all nations during the day and
brilliantly illuminated at night. High mass was celebrated on the flag-ship, after which a
number of salutes were fired. The town joined in the festivity. The bells of Trinity were rung
and the inhabitants decorated their houses with flags. The autumn was spent in agreeable pastimes,
but with the approach of winter it became necessary to put the army into comfortable quarters.
The houses which Rochambeau had offered to repair were ready, and the regiments were installed
in them; the State-House, which had been used as a hospital by the English, was put to the
same use by the French; and an upper room in it was fitted up as a chapel, where masses were
said for the sick and dying by the ábbe de Glesnon, the chaplain of the expedition. The list
of the dead was soon to include no less a person than Admiral de Ternay. He was taken ill of
a fever early in December, and brought on shore to the Hunter house, where he died on the 15th,
being buried with great pomp in Trinity churchyard on the following day. The coffin was carried
through the streets by sailors: nine priests followed, chanting a requiem for the departed
hero. The tomb placed over the remains by order of Louis XVI. in 1785 having become injured
by the ravages of time, the United States government in 1873, with the co-operation of the
marquis de Noailles, then French minister, had it moved into the vestibule of the church, placing
a granite slab over the tomb. One of Rochambeau's aides ascribes the admiral's death to chagrin
at having let five English ships escape him in an encounter.

