In the time of Pope Paul II, the Church of the Madonna of Loreto, which was small, and had
its roof immediately over brick piers of rustic work, had been refounded and brought to that
size in which it may be seen at the present day, by means of the skill and genius of Giuliano
da Maiano; and it had been continued from the outer string-course upwards by Sixtus IV and
by others, as has been related; but finally, in the time of Clement, in the year 1526, without
having previously shown the slightest sign of falling, it cracked in such a manner, that not
only the arches of the tribune were in danger, but the whole church in many places, for the
reason that the foundations were weak and wanting in depth. Wherefore Antonio was sent by the
said Pope Clement to put right so great a mischief; and when he had arrived at Loreto, propping
up the arches and fortifying the whole, like the resolute and judicious architect that he was,
he refounded all the building, and, making the walls and pilasters thicker both within and
without, he gave it a beautiful form, both as a whole and in its well-proportioned parts, and
made it strong enough to be able to support any weight, however great. He adhered to one and
the same order in the transepts and in the aisles of the church, making superb mouldings on
the architraves, friezes, and cornices above the arches, and he rendered beautiful and well
constructed in no common way the socles of the four great piers around the eight sides of the
tribune which support the four arches--namely, three in the transepts, where the chapels are,
and the larger one in the central nave. This work certainly deserves to be celebrated as the
best that Antonio ever executed, and that not without sufficient reason, seeing that those
who erect some new building, or raise one from the foundations, have the power to make it high
or low, and to carry it to such perfection as they desire or are able to achieve, without being
hindered by anything; which does not fall to the lot of him who has to rectify or restore works
begun by others and brought to a sorry state either by the craftsman or by the circumstances
of Fortune; whence it may be said that Antonio restored a dead thing to life, and did that
which was scarcely possible. Having finished all this, he arranged that the church should be
covered with lead, and gave directions for the execution of all that still remained to do;
and thus, by his means, that famous temple received a better form and more grace than it had
possessed before, and the hope of a long-enduring life.

He then returned to Rome, just after that city had been given over to sack; and the Pope was
at Orvieto, where the Court was suffering very greatly from want of water. Thereupon, at the
wish of the Pontiff, Antonio built in that city a well all of stone, twenty-five braccia wide,
with two spiral staircases cut in the tufa, one above the other, following the curve of the
well. By these two spiral staircases it is possible to descend to the bottom of the well, insomuch
that the animals that go there for water, entering by one door, go down by one of the two staircases,
and when they have come to the platform where they receive their load of water, they pass,
without turning round, into the other branch of the spiral staircase, which winds above that
of the descent, and emerge from the well by a different door, opposite to the other. This work,
which was an ingenious, useful, and marvellously beautiful thing, was carried almost to completion
before the death of Clement; and the mouth of the well, which alone remained to be executed,
was finished by order of Pope Paul III, but not according to the directions drawn up by Clement
with the advice of Antonio, who was much commended for so beautiful a work. Certain it is that
the ancients never built a structure equal to this in workmanship or ingenuity, seeing, above
all, that the central shaft is made in such a way that even down to the bottom it gives light
by means of certain windows to the two staircases mentioned above.

While this work was in progress, the same Antonio directed the construction of the fortress
of Ancona, which in time was carried to completion. Afterwards, Pope Clement resolving, at
the time when his nephew Alessandro de' Medici was Duke of Florence, to erect an impregnable
fortress in that city, Signor Alessandro Vitelli, Pier Francesco da Viterbo, and Antonio laid
out that castle, or rather, fortress, which is between the Porta al Prato and the Porta a S.
Gallo, and caused it to be built with such rapidity, that no similar structure, whether ancient
or modern, was ever completed so quickly. In a great tower, which was the first to be founded,
and was called the Toso, were placed many inscriptions and medals, with the most solemn pomp
and ceremony; and this work is now celebrated over all the world, and is held to be impregnable.

By order of Antonio were summoned to Loreto the sculptor Tribolo, Raffaello da Montelupo, Francesco
da San Gallo, then a young man, and Simone Cioli, who finished the scenes of marble begun by
Andrea Sansovino. To the same place Antonio summoned the Florentine Mosca, a most excellent
carver of marble, who was then occupied, as will be related in his Life, with a chimney-piece
of stone for the heirs of Pellegrino da Fossombrone, which proved to be a divine work of carving.
This master, I say, at the entreaty of Antonio, made his way to Loreto, where he executed festoons
that are absolutely divine. Thus, with rapidity and diligence, the ornamentation of that Chamber
of Our Lady was completely finished, although Antonio had five works of importance on his hands
at one and the same time, to all of which, notwithstanding that they were in different places,
distant one from another, he gave his attention in such a manner that he never neglected any
of them; for when at any time he could not conveniently be there in person, he availed himself
of the assistance of his brother Battista. These five works were the above-mentioned Fortress
of Florence, that of Ancona, the work at Loreto, the Apostolic Palace, and the well at Orvieto.

After the death of Clement, when Cardinal Farnese was elected supreme Pontiff under the title
of Paul III, Antonio, having been the friend of the Pope while he was a Cardinal, came into
even greater credit; and His Holiness, having created his son, Signor Pier Luigi, Duke of Castro,
sent Antonio to make the designs of the fortress which that Duke caused to be founded in that
place; of the palace, called the Osteria, that is on the Piazza; and of the Mint, built of
travertine after the manner of that in Rome, which is in the same place. Nor were these the
only designs that Antonio made in that city, for he prepared many others of palaces and other
buildings for various persons, both natives and strangers, who erected edifices of such cost
that it would seem incredible to one who has not seen them, so ornate are they all, so commodious,
and built with so little regard for expense; which was done by many, without a doubt, in order
to please the Pope, seeing that even by such means do many contrive to procure favours for
themselves, flattering the humour of Princes; and this is a thing not otherwise than worthy
of praise, for it contributes to the convenience, advantage, and pleasure of the whole world.

Next, in the year in which the Emperor Charles V returned victorious from Tunis, most magnificent
triumphal arches were erected to him in Messina, in Apulia, and in Naples, in honour of so
great a victory; and since he was to come to Rome, Antonio, at the commission of the Pope,
made a triumphal arch of wood at the Palace of S. Marco, of such a shape that it might serve
for two streets, and so beautiful that a more superb or better proportioned work in wood has
never been seen. And if in such a work splendid and costly marbles had been added to the industry,
art, and diligence bestowed on its design and execution, it might have been deservedly numbered,
on account of its statues, painted scenes, and other ornaments, among the Seven Wonders of
the world. This arch, which was placed at the end of the corner turning into the principal
Piazza, was of the Corinthian Order, with four round columns overlaid with silver on each side,
and capitals carved in most beautiful foliage, completely overlaid with gold. There were very
beautiful architraves, friezes, and cornices placed with projections over every column; and
between each two columns were two painted scenes, insomuch that there were four scenes distributed
over each side, which, with the two sides, made eight scenes altogether, containing, as will
be described elsewhere in speaking of those who painted them, the deeds of the Emperor. In
order to enhance this splendour, also, and to complete the pediment above that arch on each
side, there were two figures in relief, each four braccia and a half in height, representing
Rome, with two Emperors of the House of Austria on either side, those on the front part being
Albrecht and Maximilian, and those on the other side Frederick and Rudolph. And upon the corners,
likewise, were four prisoners, two on each side, with a great number of trophies, also in relief,
and the arms of His Holiness and of His Majesty; which were all executed under the direction
of Antonio by excellent sculptors and by the best painters that there were in Rome at that
time. And not only this arch was executed under the direction of Antonio, but also all the
preparations for the festival that was held for the reception of so great and so invincible
an Emperor.

The same Antonio then set to work on the Fortress of Nepi for the aforesaid Duke of Castro,
and on the fortification of the whole city, which is both beautiful and impregnable. He laid
out many streets in the same city, and made for its citizens the designs of many houses and
palaces. His Holiness then causing the bastions of Rome to be constructed, which are very strong,
and the Porta di S. Spirito being included among those works, the latter was built with the
direction and design of Antonio, with rustic decorations of travertine, in a very solid and
beautiful manner, and so magnificent, that it equals the works of the ancients. After the death
of Antonio, there were some who sought, moved more by envy than by any reasonable motive, and
employing extraordinary means, to have this structure pulled down; but this was not allowed
by those in power.

Under the direction of the same architect was refounded almost the whole of the Apostolic Palace,
which was in danger of ruin in many other parts besides those that have been mentioned; in
particular, on one side, the Sistine Chapel, in which are the works of Michelagnolo, and likewise
the façade, which he did in such a way that not the slightest crack appeared--a work richer
in danger than in honour. He enlarged the Great Hall of that same Sistine Chapel, making in
two lunettes at the head of it those immense windows with their marvellous lights, and with
compartments pushed up into the vaulting and wrought in stucco; all executed at great cost,
and so well, that this hall may be considered the richest and the most beautiful that there
had been in the world up to that time. And he added to it a staircase, by which it might be
possible to go into S. Pietro, so commodious and so well built that nothing better, whether
ancient or modern, has yet been seen; and likewise the Pauline Chapel, where the Sacrament
has to be placed, which is a work of extraordinary charm, so beautiful and so well proportioned
and distributed, that through the grace that may be seen therein it appears to present itself
to the eye with a festive smile.

Antonio built the Fortress of Perugia, at the time when there was discord between the people
of that city and the Pope; and that work, for which the houses of the Baglioni were thrown
to the ground, was finished with marvellous rapidity, and proved to be very beautiful. He also
built the Fortress of Ascoli, bringing it in a few days to such a condition that it could be
held by a garrison, although the people of Ascoli and others did not think that it could be
carried so far in many years; wherefore it happened that, when the garrison was placed in it
so quickly, those people were struck with astonishment, and could scarce believe it. He also
refounded his own house in the Strada Giulia at Rome, in order to protect himself from the
floods that rise when the Tiber is swollen; and he not only began, but in great part completed,
the palace that he occupied near S. Biagio, which now belongs to Cardinal Riccio of Montepulciano,
who has finished it, adding most ornate apartments, and spending upon it vast sums in addition
to what had been spent by Antonio, which was some thousands of crowns.

But all that Antonio did to the benefit and advantage of the world is as nothing in comparison
with the model of the venerable and stupendous fabric of S. Pietro at Rome, which, planned
in the beginning by Bramante, he enlarged and rearranged with a new plan and in an extraordinary
manner, giving it dignity and a well-proportioned composition, both as a whole and in its separate
parts, as may be seen from the model made of wood by the hand of his disciple, Antonio L'Abacco,
who carried it to absolute perfection. This model, which gave Antonio a very great name, was
published in engraving after the death of Antonio da San Gallo, together with the ground-plan
of the whole edifice, by the said Antonio L'Abacco, who wished to show in this way how great
was the genius of San Gallo, and to make known to all men the opinion of that architect; for
new plans had been proposed in opposition by Michelagnolo Buonarroti, and out of this change
of plans many contentions afterwards arose, as will be related in the proper place. It appeared
to Michelagnolo, and also to many others who saw the model of San Gallo, and such parts as
were carried into execution by him, that Antonio's composition was too much cut up by projections
and by members which are too small, as are also the columns, the arches upon arches, and the
cornices upon cornices. Besides this, it seems not to be approved that the two bell-towers
in his plan, the four little tribunes, and the principal cupola, should have that ornament,
or rather, garland of columns, many and small. In like manner, men did not much approve, nor
do they now, of those innumerable pinnacles that are in it as a finish to the work; and it
appears that in that model he imitated the style and manner of the Germans rather than the
good manner of the ancients, which is now followed by the best architects. The above-mentioned
model of S. Pietro was finished by L'Abacco a short time after the death of Antonio; and it
was found that, in so far as appertained merely to the woodwork and the labour of the carpenters,
it had cost four thousand one hundred and eighty-four crowns. In executing it, Antonio L'Abacco,
who had charge of the work, acquitted himself very well, having a good knowledge of the matters
of architecture, as is proved by the book of the buildings of Rome that he printed, which is
very beautiful. This model, which is now to be found in the principal chapel of S. Pietro,
is thirty-five palme[24] in length, twenty-six in breadth, and twenty palme and a half in height;
wherefore, according to the model, the work would have been one thousand and forty palme in
length, or one hundred and four canne,[25] and three hundred and sixty palme in breadth, or
thirty-six canne, for the reason that the canna which is used in Rome, according to the measure
of the masons, is equal to ten palme.

For the making of this model and of many designs, there were assigned to Antonio by the Wardens
of the building of S. Pietro fifteen hundred crowns, of which he received one thousand in cash;
but the rest he never drew, for a short time after that work he passed to the other life. He
strengthened the piers of the same Church of S. Pietro, to the end that the weight of the tribune
might be supported securely; and he filled all the scattered parts of the foundations with
solid material, and made them so strong, that there is no reason to fear that the building
may show any more cracks or threaten to fall, as it did in the time of Bramante. This masterly
work, if it were above the ground instead of being hidden below, would amaze the boldest intellect.
And for these reasons the name and fame of this admirable craftsman should always have a place
among the rarest masters.

We find that ever since the time of the ancient Romans the men of Terni and those of Narni
have been deadly enemies with one another, as they still are, for the reason that the lake
of the Marmora, becoming choked up at times, would do injury to one of those communities; and
thus, when the people of Narni wished to release the waters, those of Terni would by no means
consent to it. On that account there has always been a difference between them, whether the
Pontiffs were governing Rome, or whether it was subject to the Emperors; and in the time of
Cicero that orator was sent by the Senate to compose that difference, but it remained unsettled.
Wherefore, after envoys had been sent to Pope Paul III in the year 1546 for the same purpose,
he despatched Antonio to them to settle that dispute; and so, by his good judgment, it was
resolved that the lake should have an outlet on the side where the wall is, and Antonio had
it cut, although with the greatest difficulty. But it came to pass by reason of the heat, which
was great, and other hardships, that Antonio, being now old and feeble, fell sick of a fever
at Terni, and rendered up his spirit not long after; at which his friends and relatives felt
infinite sorrow, and many buildings suffered, particularly the Palace of the Farnese family,
near the Campo di Fiore.

Pope Paul III, when he was Cardinal Alessandro Farnese, had carried that palace a considerable
way towards completion, and had finished part of the first range of windows in the façade and
the inner hall, and had begun one side of the courtyard; but the building was yet not so far
advanced that it could be seen in its perfection, when the Cardinal was elected Pontiff, and
Antonio altered the whole of the original design, considering that he had to make a palace
no longer for a Cardinal, but for a Pope. Having therefore pulled down some houses that were
round it, and the old staircase, he rebuilt it with a more gentle ascent, and increased the
courtyard on every side and also the whole palace, making the halls greater in extent and the
rooms more numerous and more magnificent, with very beautiful carved ceilings and many other
ornaments. And he had already brought the façade, with the second range of windows, to completion,
and had only to add the great cornice that was to go right round the whole, when the Pope,
who was a man of exalted mind and excellent judgment, desiring to have a cornice richer and
more beautiful than any that there had ever been in any other palace whatsoever, resolved that,
in addition to the designs that Antonio had made, all the best architects of Rome should each
make one, after which he would choose the finest, but would nevertheless have it carried into
execution by Antonio. And so one morning, while he was at table at the Belvedere, all those
designs were brought before him in the presence of Antonio, the masters who had made them being
Perino del Vaga, Fra Sebastiano del Piombo, Michelagnolo Buonarroti, and Giorgio Vasari, who
was then a young man and in the service of Cardinal Farnese, at the commission of whom and
of the Pope he had prepared for that cornice not one only, but two different designs. It is
true that Buonarroti did not bring his own himself, but sent it by the same Giorgio Vasari,
who had gone to show him his designs, to the end that he might express his opinion on them
as a friend; whereupon Michelagnolo gave him his own design, asking that he should take it
to the Pope and make his excuses for not going in person, on the ground that he was indisposed.
And when all the designs had been presented to the Pope, his Holiness examined them for a long
time, and praised them all as ingenious and very beautiful, but that of the divine Michelagnolo
above all.

Now all this did not happen without causing vexation to Antonio, who was not much pleased with
this method of procedure on the part of the Pope, and who would have liked to do everything
by himself. But even more was he displeased to see that the Pope held in great account one
Jacomo Melighino of Ferrara, and made use of him as architect in the building of S. Pietro,
although he showed neither power of design nor much judgment in his works, giving him the same
salary as he paid to Antonio, on whom fell all the labour. And this happened because this Melighino
had been the faithful servant of the Pope for many years without any reward, and it pleased
His Holiness to recompense him in that way; not to mention that he had charge of the Belvedere
and of some other buildings belonging to the Pope.

After the Pope, therefore, had seen all the designs mentioned above, he said, perchance to
try Antonio: "These are all beautiful, but it would not be amiss for us to see another that
our Melighino has made." At which Antonio, feeling some resentment, and believing that the
Pope was making fun of him, replied: "Holy Father, Melighino is but an architect in jest."
Which hearing, the Pope, who was seated, turned towards Antonio, and, bowing his head almost
to the ground, answered: "Antonio, it is our wish that Melighino should be an architect in
earnest, as you may see from his salary." Having said this, he dismissed the company and went
away; and by these words he meant to show that it is very often by Princes rather than by their
own merits that men are brought to the greatness that they desire. The cornice was afterwards
executed by Michelagnolo, who reconstructed the whole of that palace almost in another form,
as will be related in his Life.

After the death of Antonio there remained alive his brother Battista Gobbo, a person of ability,
who spent all his time on the buildings of Antonio, although the latter did not behave very
well towards him. This Battista did not live many years after Antonio, and at his death he
left all his possessions to the Florentine Company of the Misericordia in Rome, on the condition
that the men of that Company should cause to be printed a book of Observations on Vitruvius
that he had written. That book has never come into the light of day, but it is believed to
be a good work, for he had a very fine knowledge of the matters of his art, and was a man of
excellent judgment, and he was also upright and true.

But returning to Antonio: having died at Terni, he was taken to Rome and carried to the grave
with the greatest pomp, followed by all the craftsmen of design and by many others; and then,
at the instance of the Wardens of S. Pietro, his body was placed in a tomb near the Chapel
of Pope Sixtus in S. Pietro, with the following epitaph:

     ANTONIO SANCTI GALLI FLORENTINO, URBE MUNIENDA AC PUB. OPERIBUS,
     PRÆCIPUEQUE D. PETRI TEMPLO ORNAN. ARCHITECTORUM FACILE PRINCIPI,
     DUM VELINI LACUS EMISSIONEM PARAT, PAULO PONT. MAX. AUCTORE,
     INTERAMNÆ INTEMPESTIVE EXTINCTO, ISABELLA DETA UXOR MOESTISS.
     POSUIT 1546, III. CALEND. OCTOBRIS.

And in truth Antonio, who was a most excellent architect, deserves to be celebrated and extolled,
as his works clearly demonstrate, no less than any other architect, whether ancient or modern.

FOOTNOTE:

[24] The "palma" as used here is equal to about nine inches.

[25] The "canna" is equal to four braccia.

GIULIO ROMANO

LIFE OF GIULIO ROMANO

PAINTER

Among his many, or rather innumerable, disciples, the greater number of whom became able masters,
Raffaello da Urbino had not one who imitated him more closely in manner, invention, design,
and colouring, than did Giulio Romano, nor one who was better grounded, more bold, resolute,
prolific, and versatile, or more fanciful and varied than Giulio; not to mention for the present
that he was very pleasant in his conversation, gay, amiable, gracious, and supremely excellent
in character. These qualities were the reason that he was so beloved by Raffaello, that, if
he had been his son, he could not have loved him more; wherefore it came to pass that Raffaello
always made use of him in his most important works, and, in particular, in executing the Papal
Loggie for Leo X; for after Raffaello had made the designs for the architecture, the decorations,
and the scenes, he caused Giulio to paint many of the pictures there, among which are the Creation
of Adam and Eve, that of the animals, the Building of Noah's Ark, his Sacrifice, and many other
works, which are known by the manner, such as the one in which the daughter of Pharaoh, with
her ladies, finds Moses in the little ark, which had been cast adrift on the river by the Hebrews--a
work that is marvellous on account of a very well executed landscape. Giulio also assisted
Raffaello in painting many things in that apartment of the Borgia Tower which contains the
Burning of the Borgo, more particularly the base, which is painted in the colour of bronze,
with the Countess Matilda, King Pepin, Charlemagne, Godfrey de Bouillon, King of Jerusalem,
and other benefactors of the Church--all excellent figures; and prints of a part of this scene,
taken from a drawing by the hand of Giulio, were published not long since. The same Giulio
also executed the greater part of the scenes in fresco that are in the Loggia of Agostino Chigi;
and he worked in oils on a very beautiful picture of S. Elizabeth, which was painted by Raffaello
and sent to King Francis of France, together with another picture, of S. Margaret, painted
almost entirely by Giulio after the design of Raffaello, who sent to the same King the portrait
of the Vice-Queen of Naples, wherein Raffaello did nothing but the likeness of the head from
life, and the rest was finished by Giulio. These works, which were very dear to that King,
are still in the King's Chapel at Fontainebleau in France.

Working in this manner in the service of his master Raffaello, and learning the most difficult
secrets of art, which were taught to him by Raffaello himself with extraordinary lovingness,
before a long time had passed Giulio knew very well how to draw in perspective, take the measurements
of buildings, and execute ground-plans; and Raffaello, designing and sketching at times inventions
after his own fancy, would afterwards have them drawn on a larger scale, with the proper measurements,
by Giulio, in order to make use of them in his works of architecture. And Giulio, beginning
to delight in that art, gave his attention to it in such a manner, that he afterwards practised
it and became a most excellent master. At his death, Raffaello left as his heirs Giulio and
Giovan Francesco, called Il Fattore, on the condition that they should finish the works begun
by him; and they carried the greater part of these to completion with honour.

Now Cardinal Giulio de' Medici, who afterwards became Pope Clement VII, took a site under Monte
Mario at Rome, in which, besides a beautiful view, there were running waters, with some woods
on the banks and a lovely plain which, running along the Tiber as far as the Ponte Molle, formed
on either side a wide expanse of meadowland that extended almost to the Porta di S. Pietro;
and on the highest point of the bank, where there was a level space, he proposed to build a
palace with all the best and most beautiful conveniences and adornments that could be desired
in the form of apartments, loggie, gardens, fountains, groves, and other things. Of all this
he gave the charge to Giulio, who, undertaking it willingly, and setting his hand to the work,
brought that palace, which was then called the Vigna de' Medici, and is now known as the Villa
Madama, to that condition which will be described below. Accommodating himself, then, to the
nature of the site and the wishes of the Cardinal, he made the façade in the form of a semicircle,
after the manner of a theatre, with a design of niches and windows of the Ionic Order; which
was so excellent, that many believe that Raffaello made the first sketch for it, and that the
work was afterwards pursued and carried to completion by Giulio. The same Giulio painted many
pictures in the chambers and elsewhere; in particular, in a very beautiful loggia beyond the
first entrance vestibule, which is adorned all around with niches large and small, wherein
are great numbers of ancient statues; and among these was a Jupiter, a rare work, which was
afterwards sent by the Farnese family to King Francis of France, with many other most beautiful
statues. In addition to those niches, the said loggia is all wrought in stucco and has the
walls and ceilings all painted with grotesques by the hand of Giovanni da Udine. At the head
of this loggia Giulio painted in fresco an immense Polyphemus with a vast number of children
and little satyrs playing about him, for which he gained much praise, even as he did for all
the designs and works that he executed for that place, which he adorned with fish-ponds, pavements,
rustic fountains, groves, and other suchlike things, all most beautiful and carried out with
fine order and judgment.

It is true that, the death of Leo supervening, for a time this work was carried no further,
for when a new Pontiff had been elected in Adrian, and Cardinal de' Medici had returned to
Florence, it was abandoned, together with all the public works begun by Adrian's predecessor.
During this time Giulio and Giovan Francesco brought to completion many things that had been
left unfinished by Raffaello, and they were preparing to carry into execution some of the cartoons
that he had made for the pictures of the Great Hall of the Palace--in which he had begun to
paint four stories from the life of the Emperor Constantine, and had, when he died, covered
one wall with the proper mixture for painting in oils--when they saw that Adrian, being a man
who took no delight in pictures, sculptures, or in any other good thing, had no wish that the
Hall should be finished. Driven to despair, therefore, Giulio and Giovan Francesco, and with
them Perino del Vaga, Giovanni da Udine, Sebastiano Viniziano, and all the other excellent
craftsmen, were almost like to die of hunger during the lifetime of Adrian. But by the will
of God, while the Court, accustomed to the magnificence of Leo, was all in dismay, and all
the best craftsmen, perceiving that no art was prized any longer, were beginning to consider
where they might take refuge, Adrian died, and Cardinal Giulio de' Medici was elected Supreme
Pontiff under the name of Clement VII; and with him all the arts of design, together with the
other arts, were restored to life in one day. Giulio and Giovan Francesco, full of joy, set
themselves straightway by order of the Pope to finish the above-mentioned Hall of Constantine,
and threw to the ground the preparation that had been laid on one wall for painting in oils;
but they left untouched two figures that they had painted previously in oils, which serve as
adornments to certain Popes; and these were a Justice and another similar figure.

The distribution of this Hall, which is low, had been designed with much judgment by Raffaello,
who had placed at the corners, over all the doors, large niches with ornaments in the form
of little boys holding various devices of Leo, such as lilies, diamonds, plumes, and other
emblems of the House of Medici. In the niches were seated some Popes in pontificals, each with
a canopy in his niche; and round those Popes were some little boys in the form of little angels,
holding books and other appropriate things in their hands. And each Pope had on either side
of him a Virtue, chosen according to his merits; thus, the Apostle Peter had Religion on one
side and Charity, or rather Piety, on the other, and so all the others had similar Virtues;
and the said Popes were Damasus I, Alexander I, Leo III, Gregory, Sylvester, and some others.
All these figures were so well placed in position and executed by Giulio, who painted all the
best parts of this work in fresco, that it is clear that he endured much labour and took great
pains with them; as may also be seen from a drawing of S. Sylvester, which was designed very
well by his own hand, and is perhaps a much more graceful work than the painted figure. It
may be affirmed, indeed, that Giulio always expressed his conceptions better in drawings than
in finished work or in paintings, for in the former may be seen more vivacity, boldness, and
feeling; and this may have happened because he made a drawing in an hour, in all the heat and
glow of working, whereas on paintings he spent months, and even years, so that, growing weary
of them, and losing that keen and ardent love that one has at the beginning of a work, it is
no marvel that he did not give them that absolute perfection that is to be seen in his drawings.

But to return to the stories: Giulio painted on one of the walls Constantine making an address
to his soldiers; while in the air, in a splendour of light, appears the Sign of the Cross,
with some little boys, and letters that run thus: "In hoc signo vinces." And there is a dwarf
at the feet of Constantine, placing a helmet on his head, who is executed with great art. Next,
on the largest wall, there is the battle of horsemen which took place at the Ponte Molle, in
which Constantine routed Maxentius. This work is worthy of the highest praise, on account of
the dead and wounded that may be seen in it, and the various extravagant attitudes of the foot-soldiers
and horsemen who are fighting in groups, all painted with great spirit; not to mention that
there are many portraits from life. And if this scene were not too much darkened and loaded
with blacks, which Giulio always delighted to use in colouring, it would be altogether perfect;
but this takes away much of its grace and beauty. In the same scene he painted the whole landscape
of Monte Mario, and the River Tiber, in which Maxentius, who is on horseback, proud and terrible,
is drowning. In short, Giulio acquitted himself in such a manner in this work, that it has
been a great light to all who have painted battle-pieces of that kind since his day. He himself
learned so much from the ancient columns of Trajan and Antoninus that are in Rome, that he
made much use of this knowledge for the costumes of soldiers, armour, ensigns, bastions, palisades,
battering-rams, and all the other instruments of war that are painted throughout the whole
of that Hall. And beneath these scenes, right round, he painted many things in the colour of
bronze, which are all beautiful and worthy of praise.

On another wall he painted S. Sylvester the Pope baptizing Constantine, representing there
the very bath made by Constantine himself, which is at S. Giovanni Laterano at the present
day; and he made a portrait from life of Pope Clement in the S. Sylvester who is baptizing,
with some assistants in their vestments, and a crowd of people. Among the many attendants of
the Pope of whom he painted portraits there, also from life, was the Cavalierino, who was very
influential with His Holiness at that time, and Messer Niccolò Vespucci, a Knight of Rhodes.
And below this, on the base, he painted a scene with figures in imitation of bronze, of Constantine
causing the Church of S. Pietro to be built at Rome, in allusion to Pope Clement. There he
made portraits of the architect Bramante and of Giuliano Lemi,[26] holding the design of the
ground-plan of the said church, and this scene is very beautiful.

On the fourth wall, above the chimney-piece of that Hall, he depicted in perspective the Church
of S. Pietro at Rome, with the Pope's throne exactly as it appears when His Holiness chants
the Pontifical Mass; the body of Cardinals and all the other prelates of the Court; the chapel
of singers and musicians; and the Pope seated, represented as S. Sylvester, with Constantine
kneeling at his feet and presenting to him a figure of Rome made of gold in the manner of those
that are on the ancient medals, by which Giulio intended to signify the dowry which that Constantine
gave to the Roman Church. In this scene Giulio painted many women kneeling there to see that
ceremony, who are very beautiful; a beggar asking for alms; a little boy amusing himself by
riding on a dog; and the Lancers of the Papal Guard, who are making the people give way and
stand back, as is the custom. And among many portraits that are in this work may be seen portraits
from life of Giulio himself, the painter; of Count Baldassarre Castiglioni, the author of the
"Cortigiano," and very much his friend; of Pontano and Marullo; and of many other men of letters
and courtiers. Right round the Hall and between the windows Giulio painted many devices and
poetical compositions, which were pleasing and fanciful; and everything was much to the satisfaction
of the Pope, who rewarded him liberally for his labours.

