On the arrival of Clunie two days afterwards, the royal fugitive and his friend Lochiel removed
from Mellamur, and went two miles further into Ben Aulder, until they reached a shiel called
Uiskchiboa, where the hut was peculiarly wretched and smoky; "yet his Royal Highness," as Clunie
related, "put up with everything." Here they remained for two or three nights, and then went
to a habitation still two miles further into Ben Aulder, for no less remote retreat was thought
secure. This retreat was prepared by Clunie, and obtained the name of the Cage. "It was," as
he himself relates, "a great curiosity, and can scarcely be described to perfection." It is
best to give the account of the edifice which he had himself constructed, in Macpherson's own
words. "It was situated in the face of a very rough, high, and rocky mountain, called Lettemilichk,
still a part of Ben Aulder, full of great stones and crevices, and some scattered wood interspersed.
The habitation called the Cage, in the face of that mountain, was within a small but thick
wood. There were first some rows of trees laid down, in order to level a floor for the habitation;
and, as the place was steep, this raised the lower side to an equal height with the other;
and these trees, in the way of joists or planks, were levelled with earth or gravel. There
were betwixt the trees, growing naturally on their own roots, some stakes fixed in the earth,
which, with the trees, were interwoven with ropes, made of heath or birch-twigs, up to the
top of the Cage, it being of a round or rather oval shape, and the whole thatched and covered
over with bog. This whole fabric hung, as it were, by a large tree, which reclined from the
one end, all along the roof to the other, and which gave it the name of the Cage; and by chance
there happened to be two stones, at a small distance from one another, in the side next the
precipice, resembling the pillars of a chimney, where the fire was placed. The smoke had its
vent out here, all along the face of the rock, which was so much of the same colour that one
could discover no difference in the clearest day. The Cage was no larger than to contain six
or seven persons, four of whom were frequently employed playing at cards, one idle looking
on, one baking, and another fixing bread and cooking."[295]

Charles and Lochiel remained six or seven days in this seclusion, which was one of several
to which Clunie was in the habit of retiring, never even informing his wife or his most attached
friends whither he was going. But the deliverance of the Prince and Lochiel was now at hand.
Several small vessels had arrived from France, and touched on the west coast, expressly to
carry away the Prince, but not being able to find him out, they had returned. By the fidelity
of the Highlanders and the connection between every member of the different clans, the Prince
had been able to keep up a continual communication with persons on the coast, without discovery.
This was managed by some of his adherents skulking near the shore; and though they knew not
where Charles was, yet they conveyed the intelligence to others, who imparted it to persons
in the interior, who again told it to those who were acquainted with the obscure place of his
retreat. At last two French vessels, l'Heureux and la Princesse de Conti, departed under the
command of Colonel Warren, from St. Malo, and arrived at Lochnarmagh early in September. This
event was communicated to Cameron of Clunes, who, on the other hand, learned where the Prince
was from a poor woman. A messenger was immediately dispatched to the Cage, and he reached that
place on the thirteenth of September. Charles Edward and Lochiel now prepared to bid Scotland
a final adieu. Notices were sent round by the Prince to different friends who might choose
to avail themselves of this opportunity of escape; and it was intimated to them that they might
join him if they were inclined.

The place of embarkation was Borodale, whence Charles had first summoned Lochiel to support
his cause. The party travelled only by night, and were six days on their road. They were joined
by Glengary, John Roy Stewart, Dr. Cameron, and a number of other adherents. On the twentieth
of September they left Lochnarmagh, and had a fair passage to the coast of France. The Prince
had intended to sail direct for Nantes, but he altered his course in order to escape Admiral
Lestoch's squadron; and after being chased by two men-of-war, he landed at Morlaix, in Lower
Bretagne, in a thick fog, on the twenty-ninth of September.

Lochiel was accompanied in his flight to France by his wife, the faithful and affectionate
associate of his exile. His eldest son was left in the charge of his brother Cameron, of Fassefern.
In Paris Lochiel found his father, who was then eighty years of age; and to this aged chief
the Prince paid the well-merited compliment of placing him in the same carriage with himself
and Lord Lewis Gordon, when he first went to the Court of Louis the Fifteenth in state. The
Prince was followed on that occasion by a number of his friends, both in coaches and on horseback.
Lord Ogilvy, Lord Elcho, and the Prince's secretary Kelly, preceded the royal carriage: the
younger Lochiel and several gentlemen followed on horseback. Amid this noble train of brave
men, the Prince appeared pre-eminent in the splendour of his dress. A coat of rose-coloured
velvet, lined with silver tissue, presented a singular contrast to the brown short coat in
which some of his adherents had formerly seen him. His waistcoat was of gold brocade with a
spangled fringe, set out in scollops, and the white cockade in his hat was studded with diamonds.
The order of St. Andrew and the George on his breast were adorned with the same jewels: "he
glittered," as an eye-witness observed, "all over like the star which they tell you appeared
at his nativity." But all this display, and the feigned kindness of his reception, were but
the prelude to a heartless abandonment of his cause on the part of Louis the Fifteenth.

Lochiel was, eventually, provided for by the French Monarch. He was made Colonel of a French
regiment, and having a peculiar faculty of attaching others to him, he soon became beloved
by those under his command. The Prince showed him affectionate respect; and, blessed in the
society of his wife, and in a daughter whom he called Donalda, Lochiel might have passed the
rest of his days in tranquil submission to the course of events: but his heart yearned for
Scotland; he could not give up the hopes of another expedition, which he desired to undertake
with any force that could be collected. Cherishing this scheme, the coldness of the Court of
France, and the rashness of the Prince, gave great sorrow to his harassed mind. Soon after
his arrival in Paris he opened a correspondence with the Chevalier St. George, and represented
to him that the misfortunes which had befallen the cause were not irretrievable, and that if
ten regiments only could be landed in Scotland before the depopulating system adopted by the
English Government had taken effect, an insurrection might again be raised with good grounds
for the hope of success.

Still hoping thus to return to his country, and again to take arms in her service, as he deemed
it, it was long before Lochiel consented to accept the command of the French regiment, "intending
still," as he said, "to share the fate of his people." "I told his Royal Highness," he wrote
to the Chevalier St. George, "that Lord Ogilvy or others might incline to make a figure in
France, but my ambition was to save the crown and serve my country, or perish with it. His
Royal Highness said, he was doing all he could, but persisted in his resolution to procure
me a regiment. If it is obtained, I shall accept it out of respect to the Prince; but I hope
your Majesty will approve of the resolution I have taken to share in the fate of the people
I have undone, and, if they must be sacrificed, to fall along with them. This is the only way
I can free myself from the reproach of their blood, and show the disinterested zeal with which
I have lived, and shall dye.

"Your Majesty's most humble, most obedient, and most faithful servant."[296]

When Prince Charles, disheartened at the growing indifference of the French Court to his interests,
contemplated leaving Paris, Lochiel objected to a proposal which seemed to imply an abandonment
of the cause which he had pledged himself to support. His representations to the Prince were
ineffectual, for a stronger influence had arisen to baffle the endeavours of Charles's friends;
and he was under the sway of one who was, not inaptly, termed "his Delilah." He left Paris
and arrived at Avignon, to which place Lochiel addressed to him a letter full of the most cogent
reasons why he should not leave Paris. From his arguments it appears that the English Jacobites
had expressed their willingness to rise, had the Prince either supplied them with arms or brought
them troops to support them.

"For Heaven's sake, sir," wrote Lochiel,[297] "be pleased to consider these circumstances with
the attention that their importance deserves; and that your honour, your essential interest,
the preservation of the royal cause, and the bleeding state of your suffering friends, require
of you. Let me beg of your Royal Highness, in the most humble and earnest manner, to reflect
that your reputation must suffer in the opinion of all mankind, if there should be room to
suppose that you had slighted or neglected any possible means of retrieving your affairs."

These remonstrances were at last so far effectual, that Charles returned to Paris, and was
only again removed from that capital by force.

The spirit of Lochiel was meantime broken by the mournful tidings which reached him of the
death of friends on the scaffold, the cruelties enacted in Scotland, and, more than all, of
the Act which took effect in August 1747, disarming the Highlanders and restraining the use
of the Highland garb. By this statute it was made penal to wear the national costume: a first
offence was punished with six months' imprisonment; a second, with transportation for seven
years. Such were the efforts made to break the union of a fiery but faithful people, and such
the attempt to produce a complete revolution in the national habits!

Many were the projects which amused the exiled Jacobites into hopes that ended in bitter disappointment,
and many the fleeting visions of a restoration of the Stuarts. During one of these brief chimeras,
Lochiel and Clunie visited Charles at a retreat on the Upper Rhine, whither he had retired
after the perfidious imprisonment at the Castle of Vincennes. They found the Prince sunk in
the lassitude which succeeds a long course of exciting events, and of smothered but not subdued
misery. The visit yielded to neither party satisfaction. Charles was deaf to the remonstrances
of Lochiel, and Lochiel beheld his Prince wholly devoted to Miss Walkinshaw and her daughter,
afterwards Countess of Albany, and completely under the influence of his mistress, who was
regarded by Lochiel and Clunie as a spy of Hanover.

Lochiel left the Prince, and they never met again. The health of the chief began to decline;
his malady was a mental one, and admitted of no cure but a return to those vassals who had
been so faithful and so much attached to him, and to friends with whose misfortunes he seems
to have blamed himself. Of the affection of the clansmen he received frequent proofs. "The
estates of Lochiel," says Mrs. Grant, "were forfeited like others, and paid a moderate rate
to the Crown, such as they had formerly given to their chief. The domain formerly occupied
by the Laird was taken on his behoof by his brother. The tenants brought each a horse, cow,
colt, or heifer, as a free-will offering, till this ample grazing-farm was as well stocked
as formerly. Not content with this, they sent a yearly tribute of affection to their beloved
chief, independent of the rents they paid to the commissioners for the forfeited estates. Lochiel's
lady and her daughters once or twice made a sorrowful pilgrimage among their friends and tenants.
These last received them with a tenderness and respect which seemed augmented by the adversity
into which they were plunged."

At last the suffering spirit was released. Lochiel is conjectured to have died about the year
1760, and is generally thought to have sunk under the pressure of hopeless sorrow, or, to use
the words of one who spoke from tradition, "of a broken heart." His daughter Donalda, who was
about fourteen at the time of his death, had attached herself so fondly to her father, that
after his decease she pined away, and never recovered. She died soon after her father, and
the mother did not long survive her daughter. Never, perhaps, did a brave and unfortunate man
sink to rest more honoured by society at large, more admired and respected by his friends,
more revered by his vassals, than the gentle Lochiel. The beauty of his character showed itself
also in the close ties of domestic life: and in some of these, more particularly as a brother,
his warm and constant affections were destined to be severely wounded. He felt deeply the banishment
of his brother Cameron of Fassefern; and still more severely the cruel fate of another brother,
Dr. Archibald Cameron. The fate of that young man, who attended Charles Edward in most of his
wanderings, presents, indeed, one of the saddest episodes of this melancholy period. Dr. Cameron,
after sharing the dangers which the Prince ran, and following him to France, returned to Scotland
in 1749. Charles Edward had left a large sum of money in the charge of Macpherson of Clunie,
upon leaving Scotland; and Dr. Cameron was privy to the concealment of the money. He visited
Clunie, and obtained from him six thousand louis-d'ors, for which, however, Clunie took Dr.
Cameron's receipt. In 1753, Dr. Cameron made another visit, which is conjectured to have had
a similar object. The money was concealed near Loch Arkeg, to the amount of twenty-two thousand
louis-d'ors. Some degree of obscurity rests upon this transaction, which undoubtedly throws
a degree of discredit on the memory of Dr. Cameron. Among the Stuart papers there is a letter
from Mr. Ludovick Cameron to Prince Charles, alluding to the "misfortune" of his nephew, Dr.
Cameron, in taking away a good round sum of his Highness's money, and clearing himself from
the imputation. This proves that there was no commission, as it has been suggested,[298] to
Dr. Cameron, but that the transaction was regarded in a disgraceful light, even by the relative
of the unfortunate young man.

A severe retribution awaited the offender, who intended, it is said, to enter into a mercantile
concern at Glasgow with the money thus procured. He was taken prisoner in the house of Stewart
of Glenbuckie, by a party of soldiers from the garrison at Inversnaid. He was carried to London,
arraigned upon the Act of Attainder in 1745, in which his name was included, and sentenced
to the death of a traitor. His wife, who then resided at Lisle, hurried to London to proffer
fruitless petitions for mercy. Whatever may have been Dr. Cameron's errors, his death was worthy
of the name he bore, and he sustained his fate with calmness and resignation. Seven children
were left to deplore his loss. The Chevalier St. George, kindly passing over his fault, wrote
of him in these terms. "I am a stranger to the motives which carried poor Archibald Cameron
into Scotland; but whatever they may have been, his fate gives me the more concern, as I own
I could not bring myself to believe that the English Government would carry their rigour so
far." The French Government settled a pension of one thousand five hundred livres upon Mrs.
Cameron, and an annual allowance of two hundred livres to each of her sons, who were in their
service. The unfortunate Dr. Cameron was buried in the Savoy in London. The family of the man
who betrayed him is said, in the Highlands, to have been visited with a severe retribution,
having, ever since, had one of its members an idiot. Such is the notion of retributive justice
in the Highlands.

The death of this brother, and still more the stain upon the honour of Dr. Cameron, must have
added greatly to the burden of sorrow which fell so heavily upon Lochiel. His son was, however,
spared for some years, and was cherished by the Scots as the representative of their ancient
chiefs. He was, it is true, what they called a "landless laird," yet the clansmen paid him
all the honours due to the eldest son of Lochiel. He received a good education, and was prevented
by his friends from taking any part in the various schemes set on foot at certain intervals
for the return of Charles. He married at an early age. Government was at that time engaged
in levying men for the American war, and found it convenient to use the influence of the clans
for that purpose; Lochiel was offered a company in General Fraser's regiment, the seventy-first,
provided he could raise it among his clan. Poor and broken as they were, the clansmen, true
to their bond of fidelity, mustered around their landless laird; and Lochiel marched at the
head of his company to Glasgow, in order to embark for America.

It happened that whilst here, he was taken ill of the measles, a disorder which prevented his
marching. It was therefore arranged that the first lieutenant should take his place. When,
on the point of marching to Greenock in order to embark, the clansmen discovered this, they
laid down their arms, declaring that they had not engaged with King George, but with Lochiel;
and they refused to move. The chief hearing of this dilemma, ill as he was, arose, dressed
himself, and went down to his people. He harangued them, and represented that unless they went
on board, their conduct would be imputed to disaffection, and might injure, if not ruin his
interests. The men immediately took up their arms, huzzaed their chief, and began to march.
The result is melancholy. Enfeebled by this effort, Lochiel again took to his bed; the day
on which he had made this fatal exertion was a raw November morning. He never recovered from
that exposure, but died in a few days afterwards.

Most of the company of Camerons perished in the contest which ensued. Thrice during the American
war was General Fraser's regiment renewed.[299] Such was the devotion of this gallant race
of men to their chief; and such were the services which those whose fathers had fought at Culloden,
devoted to the cause of the English Monarch.

Late in the eighteenth century, the estates of Lochiel were restored to the grandson of Lochiel;
and the descendants of that race, in which so much honour, such disinterested exertion, such
kindness and heroism existed, are again the Lords of Achnacarry.

FOOTNOTES:

[247] I am indebted to a MS. account of Cameron of Lochiel for the most interesting facts in
the following memoir. It was communicated to me by R. Chambers, Esq., and was written by Mrs.
Grant of Laggan. In her letters unpublished, she declares the source of her information to
have been some papers in the possession of a Scotch clergyman, "which," says Mrs. Grant, "it
appears he did not give to John Home, who would scarcely have asked the favour, keeping very
shy of his old brethren."

[248] Brown's History of the Highlands, part ii. p. 141.

[249] Mrs. Grant's MS.

[250] Mrs. Grant's MS.

[251] Brown's Highlands.

[252] Mrs. Grant's MS.

[253] "The credit of this feat," writes Mrs. Grant, "rests merely on the country tradition:
and the silence concerning it, in the publications and records of those times, is accounted
for, first, by the shame which the commanders of the party felt at being thus surprised and
outwitted by an inferior number of those whom they had been accustomed to style barbarians
and to treat as such."--MS.

[254] Mrs. Grant's MS.

[255] Mrs. Grant's MS.

[256] Sketches of the Highlands, vol. i. pp. 60, 61.

[257] Brown's Highlands.

[258] Reay, p. 88.

[259] See Culloden Papers.

[260] Stewart's Sketches, vol. i. p. 86.

[261] Reay, p. 271.

[262] Mrs. Grant's MS.

[263] Mrs. Grant's MS.

[264] Conjectured to be Lord Lovat.

[265] Appendix to the Memoirs of Sir Ewan Cameron of Lochiel, p. 177.

[266] Mrs. Grant's MS.

[267] Appendix to Home's History of the Rebellion, No. II.

[268] See Appendix, No. II.

[269] Home. Appendix. From the papers of Cameron of Fassefern, Lochiel's nephew.

[270] In the year 1781, Fassefern repeated this conversation to Mr. Home. History of the Rebellion,
p. 7.

[271] Forbes, p. 19.

[272] Home, p. 5.

[273] Forbes, p. 19.

[274] Home, p. 6.

[275] Maxwell of Kirkconnel's Narrative, p. 23.

[276] The beautiful poem of Campbell, entitled "Lochiel," is founded on this circumstance.

[277] Mrs. Grant's MS.

[278] Life of Jenny Cameron. London. Printed for C. Whitefield, in White Friars, 1746.

[279] Life of Jenny Cameron.

[280] Forbes, p. 23.

[281] The poem entitled "Jeanie Cameron's Lament," is, with other inedited Jacobite songs,
likely soon to be given to the world, arranged to true Scottish airs, and published in parts.
These songs are collected by a member of one of the most ancient Jacobite families. The accomplished
young lady who has engaged in this undertaking is Miss Charlotte Maxwell, the sister of Sir
William Maxwell, Bart., of Menteith, Wigtonshire, and a descendant of the Earl of Nithisdale.
The ballad of Sherriff Muir, is among the first of the interesting collection.

[282] Forbes, p. 23.

[283] Maxwell of Kirkconnel, p. 45.

[284] Maxwell, p. 105.

[285] Home, p. 164.

[286] Dated, Edinburgh, 12th Jan. 1745-6. This extract, for which I am indebted to Mr. Macdonald,
who possesses the orderly-book, was considered an extremely curious passage by Sir Walter Scott.

[287] Burrell's regiment was so broken, that not two men were left standing. Home, Appendix.

[288] In a letter among the papers of Mr. Murray of Abercairney, the imputations upon the Highlanders
are strongly and ably refuted. For obvious reasons I have not given the extract, nor gone more
closely into a subject which belongs to the province of history.

[289] See Mrs. Grant's MS.

[290] Home, Appendix, p. 373.

[291] See note 2 in Chambers's History of the Rebellion, p. 121.

[292] See History of the Rebellion, taken from the Scots' Magazine, p. 353.

[293] Cluny Macpherson's Narrative. Home, Appendix, p. 365.

[294] Of one of these there is an interesting anecdote in the Tales of a Grandfather, vol.
iii. p. 295, note.

[295] Home's History of the Rebellion, Appendix, p. 146.

[296] Brown's History of the Highlands, Part II. App. CVII. from the Stuart Papers.

[297] Brown's History of the Highlands. No. LXX.

[298] Chambers, p. 145.

[299] Mrs. Grant's MS.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Note: The following errors in the original have been corrected.

Page 24 - missing quote mark added: in Scots' affairs."[B]

Page 36 - missing quote mark added: Scottish nobility."

Page 47 - from Paris to Boisleduc changed to from Paris to Barleduc

Page 54 - missing quote mark added: faithfully serving King George.