When I landed in the beautiful Queen of the Antilles I found Don Pedro in no humor to accede
to these philanthropic notions. The veteran slaver regarded me, no doubt, as a sort of cross
between a fool and zealot. An American vessel had been recently chartered to carry a freight
to the coast; and, accordingly, instead of receiving a release from servitude, I was ordered
on board the craft as supercargo of the enterprise! In fact, on the third day after my arrival
at Havana, I was forced to re-embark for the coast without a prospect of securing my independence.

The reader may ask why I did not burst the bond, and free myself at a word from a commerce
with which I was disgusted? The question is natural--but the reply is human. I had too large
an unliquidated interest at New Sestros, and while it remained so, I was not entitled to demand
from my employer a final settlement for my years of labor. In other words I was in his power,
so far as my means were concerned, and my services were too valuable to be surrendered by him
voluntarily.

A voyage of forty-two days brought me once more to New Sestros, accompanied by a couple of
negro women, who paid their passage and were lodged very comfortably in the steerage. The elder
was about forty and extremely corpulent, while her companion was younger as well as more comely.

This respectable dame, after an absence of twenty-four years, returned to her native Gallinas,
on a visit to her father, king Shiakar. At the age of fifteen, she had been taken prisoner
and sent to Havana. A Cuban confectioner purchased the likely girl, and, for many years, employed
her in hawking his cakes and pies. In time she became a favorite among the townsfolk, and,
by degrees, managed to accumulate a sufficient amount to purchase her freedom. Years of frugality
and thrift made her proprietor of a house in the city and an egg-stall in the market, when
chance threw in her way a cousin, lately imported from Africa, who gave her news of her father's
family. A quarter of a century had not extinguished the natural fire in this negro's heart,
and she immediately resolved to cross the Atlantic and behold once more the savage to whom
she owed her birth.

I sent these adventurous women to Gallinas by the earliest trader that drifted past New Sestros,
and learned that they were welcomed among the islands with all the ceremony common among Africans
on such occasions. Several canoes were despatched to the vessel, with flags, tom-toms, and
horns, to receive and welcome the ladies. On the shore, a procession was formed, and a bullock
offered to the captain in token of gratitude for his attention.

When her elder brother was presented to the retired egg-merchant, he extended his arms to embrace
his kinswoman; but, to the amazement of all, she drew back with a mere offer of her hand, refusing
every demonstration of affection till he should appear dressed with becoming decency. This
rebuke, of course, kept the rest of her relatives at bay, for there was a sad deficiency of
trowsers in the gang, and it was the indispensable garment that caused so unsisterly a reception.

But Shiakar's daughter, travelled as she was, could neither set the fashions nor reform the
tastes of Gallinas. After a sojourn of ten days, she bade her kindred an eternal adieu, and
returned to Havana, disgusted with the manners and customs of her native land.

CHAPTER LXV.

On my return to New Sestros, I found that the colonial authorities of Liberia had been feeling
the pulse of my African friend, Freeman, in order to secure the co-operation of that distinguished
personage in the suppression of the slave traffic. Freeman professed his willingness to conclude
a treaty of commerce and amity with Governor Buchanan, but respectfully declined to molest
the factories within his domain.

Still, Buchanan was not to be thwarted by a single refusal, and enlisted the sympathy of an
officer in command of a United States cruiser, who accompanied the governor to the anchorage
at New Sestros. As soon as these personages reached their destination, a note was despatched
to the negro potentate, desiring him to expel from his territory all Spaniards who were possessed
of factories. To this, it is said, the chief returned a short and tart rebuke for the interference
with his independence; whereupon the following singular missive was immediately delivered to
the Spaniards:--

  "U. S. BRIG DOLPHIN,
    "NEW SESTROS, March 6, 1840.

"SIR:

"I address you in consequence of having received a note from you a few evenings since; but
I wish it to be understood that this communication is intended for all or any persons who are
now in New Sestros, engaged in the slave-trade.

"I have received information that you now have, in your establishments on shore, several hundred
negroes confined in barracoons, waiting for an opportunity to ship them. Whether you are Americans,
English, French, Spaniards, or Portuguese, you are acting in violation of the established laws
of your respective countries, and, therefore, are not entitled to any protection from your
governments. You have placed yourselves beyond the protection of any civilized nation, as you
are engaged in a traffic which has been made piracy by most of the Christian nations of the world.

"As I have been sent by my government to root out, if possible, this traffic on and near our
settlements on the coast, I must now give you notice, that you must break up your establishment
at this point, in two weeks from this date; failing to do so, I shall take such measures as
I conceive necessary to attain this object. I will thank you to send a reply to this communication
immediately, stating your intentions, and also sending an account of the number of slaves you
have on hand.

  "I am, &c., &c., &c.,
    "CHARLES R. BELL,
      "Lieut. Com. U. S. Naval Forces, Coast of Africa.

  "To Mr. A. DEMER and others,
    "NEW SESTROS, Coast of Africa."

I do not know what reply was made to this communication, as a copy was not retained; but when
my clerk handed me the original letter from Lieutenant Bell, on my arrival from Cuba I lost
no time in forwarding the following answer to Col. Hicks, at Monrovia, to be despatched by
him to the American officer:

  "TO CHARLES R. BELL, ESQ.,
    "Lieut. Com. of the U. S. Forces, Coast of Africa, Monrovia.
      "NEW SESTROS, April 2, 1840.

"SIR:

"Your letter of the 6th March, directed to the white residents of New Sestros, was handed me
on my return to this country, and I am sorry I can make but the following short answer.

"First, sir, you seem to assume a supremacy over the most civilized nations of the world, and,
under the doubtful pretext of your nation's authority, threaten to land and destroy our property
on these neutral shores. Next, you are pleased to inform us that all Christian nations have
declared the slave-trade piracy, and that we are not entitled to any protection from our government.
Why, then, do the Southern States of your great confederacy allow slavery, public auctions,
transportation from one State to another,--not only of civilized black native subjects,--but
of nearly white, American, Christian citizens? Such is the case in your free and independent
country; and, though the slave-trade is carried on in the United States of America with more
brutality than in any other colony, I still hope you are a Christian!

"To your third article, wherein you observe, having 'been sent by your government to root out
this traffic, if possible, near your own settlements on the coast,'--allow me to have my doubts
of such orders. Your government could not have issued them without previously making them publicly
known;--and, permit me to say, those Christian nations you are pleased to mention, are not
aware that your nation had set up colonies on the coast of Africa. They were always led to
believe that these Liberian settlements were nothing but Christian beneficial societies, humanely
formed by private philanthropists, to found a refuge for the poor blacks born in America, who
cannot be protected in their native country by the free and independent laws and institutions
of the United States.

"If my argument cannot convince you that you are not justified in molesting a harmless people
on these desolate shores, allow me to inform you that, should you put your threats in execution
and have the advantage over us, many factories would suffer by your unjust attack, which would
give them an indisputable right to claim high damages from your government.

"Most of the white residents here, are, and have been, friendly to Americans at large; some
have been educated in your country, and it would be the saddest day of their lives, if obliged
to oppose by force of arms the people of a nation they love as much as their own countrymen.
The undersigned, in particular, would wish to observe that the same spirit that led him to
avenge Governor Findley's murder, will support him in defence of his property, though much
against his inclination.

  "I remain, very respectfully,
    "Your obedient servant,
      "THEODORE CANOT."

This diplomatic encounter terminated the onslaught. Buchanan, who was over hasty with military
display on most occasions, made a requisition for volunteers to march against New Sestros.
But the troops were never set in motion. In the many years of my residence in the colonial
neighborhood, this was the only occasion that menaced our friendship or verged upon hostilities.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whilst I was abroad in England and Cuba, my chargé d'affaires at New Sestros sent off a cargo
of three hundred negroes, nearly all of whom were safely landed in the West Indies, bringing
us a profit of nine thousand dollars. There were, however, still one hundred and fifty in our
barracoons to be shipped; and, as the cargo from the Crawford was quickly exchanged with the
natives for more slaves, in two months' time, I found my pens surcharged with six hundred human
beings. Two other neighboring factories were also crammed; while, unfortunately, directly in
front of us, a strong reinforcement of British men-of-war kept watch and ward to prevent our
depletion.

No slaver dared show its topsails above the horizon. The season did not afford us supplies
from the interior. Very few coasters looked in at New Sestros; and, as our stock of grain and
provisions began to fail, the horrors of famine became the sole topic of conversation among
our alarmed factors.

It will readily be supposed that every effort was made, not only to economize our scanty stores,
but to increase them through the intervention of boats that were sent far and wide to scour
the coast for rice and cassava. Double and triple prices were offered for these articles, yet
our agents returned without the required supplies. In fact, the free natives themselves were
in danger of starvation, and while they refused to part with their remnants, even under the
temptation of luxuries, they sometimes sent deputations to my settlement in search of food.

By degrees I yielded to the conviction that I must diminish my mouths. First of all, I released
the old and feeble from the barracoon. This, for a few days, afforded ample relief; but, as
I retained only the staunchest, the remaining appetites speedily reduced our rations to a single
meal per diem. At last, the steward reported, that even this allowance could be continued for
little more than a week. In twelve days, at farthest, my resources would be utterly exhausted.

In this extremity I summoned a council of neighboring chiefs, and exposing my situation, demanded
their opinion as to a fitting course on the dreaded day. I had resolved to retain my blacks
till the last measure was distributed, and then to liberate them to shift for themselves.

But the idea of releasing six hundred famishing foemen struck the beach people with horror.
It would, they said, be a certain source of war and murder; and they implored me not to take
such a step till they made every effort to ease my burden. As a beginning, they proposed at
once relieving the barracoon of a large portion of females and of all the male youths, who
were to be fed and guarded by them, on my account, till better times.

By this system of colonizing I got rid of the support of two hundred and twenty-five negroes;
and, as good luck would have it, a visit from a friendly coaster enabled me, within ten days,
to exchange my beautiful cutter "Ruth" for a cargo of rice from the colony at Cape Palmas.

It was fortunate that in a week after this happy relief the British cruisers left our anchorage
for a few days. No sooner were they off, than a telegraph of smoke, which, in those days, was
quite as useful on the African coast, as the electric is on ours, gave notice to the notorious
"Volador." There was joy in the teeming factories when her signal was descried in the offing;
and, before the following dawn, seven hundred and forty-nine human beings, packed within her
one hundred and sixty-five tons, were on their way to Cuba.

This was the last cargo of slaves I ever shipped!

CHAPTER LXVI.

When the thought struck me of abandoning the slave-trade, and I had resolved to follow out
the good impulse, I established a store in the neighborhood of my old barracoons with the design
of trafficking in the produce of industry alone. This concern was intrusted to the management
of a clever young colonist.

It was about this time that the British brig of war Termagant held New Sestros in permanent
blockade, forbidding even a friendly boat to communicate with my factory. Early one morning
I was called to witness a sturdy chase between my scolding foe and a small sail which was evidently
running for the shore in order to save her crew by beaching. The British bull-dog, however,
was not to be deterred by the perils of the surf; and, holding on with the tenacity of fate,
pursued the stranger, till he discovered that a large reinforcement of armed natives was arrayed
on the strand ready to protect the fugitives. Accordingly, the Englishmen refrained from assailing
the mariners, and confined their revenge to the destruction of the craft.

As this affray occurred within gun-shot of my lawful factory, I hastened to the beach under
the belief that some of my employés had unluckily fallen into a difficulty with the natives.
But on my arrival I was greeted by a well-known emissary from our headquarters at Gallinas,
who bore a missive imparting the Volador's arrival in Cuba with six hundred and eleven of her
people. The letter furthermore apprised me that Don Pedro, who persisted in sending merchandise
to my slave factory, still declined my resignation as his agent, but acknowledged a credit
in his chest of thirteen thousand dollars for my commissions on the Volador's slaves. Here,
then, were Confidence and Temptation, both resolutely proffered to lure me back to my ancient
habits!

I was busily engaged on the sands, enforcing from the negroes a restitution of clothes to the
plundered postman, when the crack of a cannon, higher up the beach, made me fear that an aggression
was being committed against my homestead. Before I could depart, however, two more shots in
the same quarter, left me no room to doubt that the Termagant was talking most shrewishly with
my factory at New Sestros.

I reached the establishment with all convenient speed, only to find it full of natives, who
had been brought to the spot from the interior by the sound of a cannonade. The following letter
from the captain of the man-of-war, it seems, had been landed in a fishing canoe very soon
after my departure in the morning, and the shots, I suppose, were discharged to awake my attention
to its contents.

  "HER BRITANNIC MAJESTY'S SHIP TERMAGANT,
    "Off NEW SESTROS, Nov. 5, 1840.

"SIR:

"The natives or Kroomen of your settlement having this day fired on the boats of Her B. M.
ship under my command, while in chase of a Spanish boat with seven men going to New Sestros,
I therefore demand the persons who fired on the boats, to answer for the same; and, should
this demand not be complied with, I shall take such steps as I deem proper to secure satisfaction.

"I have addressed you on this occasion, judging by the interference of those blacks in your
behalf, that they are instigated by you.

"I have the honor to be, sir, your obed't serv't,

  "H. F. SEAGRAM,
    "Lieut. Com.

  "TO MR. T. CANOT,
    "NEW SESTROS."

When this cartel fell into my hands it lacked but an hour of sunset. The beach was alive with
angry rollers, while the Termagant was still under easy sail, hovering up and down the coast
before my factory, evidently meditating the propriety of another pill to provoke my notice.

I sat down at once and wrote a sort of model response, promising to come on board bodily next
morning to satisfy the lieutenant of my innocence; but when I inquired for a Mercury to bear
my message, there was not a Krooman to be found willing to face either the surf or the British
sailor. Accordingly, there was no alternative but to suffer my bamboo barracoons and factory
to be blown about my ears by the English vixen, or to face the danger, in person, and become
the bearer of my own message.

The proposal sounded oddly enough in the ears of the Kroomen, who, in spite of their acquaintance
with my hardihood, could scarcely believe I would thrust my head into the very jaws of the
lion. Still, they had so much confidence in the judgment displayed by white men on the coast,
that I had little difficulty in engaging the boat and services of a couple of sturdy chaps;
and, stripping to my drawers, so as to be ready to swim in the last emergency, I committed
myself to their care.

We passed the dangerous surf in safety, and in a quarter of an hour were alongside the Termagant,
whose jolly lieutenant could not help laughing at the drenched uniform in which I saluted him
at the gangway. Slaver as I was, he did not deny me the rites of hospitality. Dry raiment and
a consoling glass were speedily supplied; and with the reassured stamina of my improved condition,
it may readily be supposed I was not long in satisfying the worthy Mr. Seagram that I had no
concern in the encounter betwixt the natives and his boats. To clinch the argument I assured
the lieutenant that I was not only guiltless of the assault, but had made up my mind irrevocably
to abandon the slave-trade!

I suppose there was as much rejoicing that night on board the Termagant over the redeemed slaver,
as there is in most churches over a rescued sinner. It was altogether too late and too dark
for me to repeat the perils of the surf and sharks, so that I willingly accepted the offer
of a bed, and promised to accompany Seagram in the morning to the prince.

Loud were the shouts of amazement and fear when the negroes saw me landing next day, side by
side, in pleasant chat, with an officer, who, eighteen hours before, had been busy about my
destruction. It was beyond their comprehension how an Englishman could visit my factory under
such circumstances, nor could they divine how I escaped, after my voluntary surrender on board
a cruiser. When the prince saw Seagram seated familiarly under my verandah, he swore that I
must have some powerful fetiche or juju to compel the confidence of enemies; but his wonder
became unbounded when the officer proposed his entire abandonment of the slave-trade, and I
supported the lieutenant's proposal!

I have hardly ever seen a man of any hue or character, so sorely perplexed as our African was
by this singular suggestion. To stop the slave-trade, unless by compulsion, was, in his eyes,
the absolute abandonment of a natural appetite or function. At first, he believed we were joking.
It was inconceivable that I, who for years had carried on the traffic so adroitly, could be
serious in the idea. For half an hour the puzzled negro walked up and down the verandah, muttering
to himself, stopping, looking at both of us, hesitating, and laughing,--till at last, as he
afterwards confessed, he concluded that I was only "deceiving the Englishman," and came forward
with an offer to sign a treaty on the spot for the extinction of the traffic.

Now the reader must bear in mind that I allowed the prince to mislead himself through his natural
duplicity on this occasion, as I was thereby enabled to bring him again in contact with Seagram,
and secure the support of British officers for my own purposes.

In a few days the deed was done. The slave-trade at New Sestros was formally and for ever abolished
by the prince and myself. As I was the principal mover in the affair, I voluntarily surrendered
to the British officer on the day of signature, one hundred slaves; in return for which I was
guarantied the safe removal of my valuable merchandise, and property from the settlement.

It was a very short time after I had made all snug at New Sestros that misfortune fell suddenly
on our parent nest at Gallinas. The Hon. Joseph Denman, who was senior officer of the British
squadron on the coast, unexpectedly landed two hundred men, and burnt or destroyed all the
Spanish factories amid the lagunes and islets. By this uncalculated act of violence, the natives
of the neighborhood were enabled to gorge themselves with property that was valued, I understand,
at a very large sum. An event like this could not escape general notice along the African coast,
and in a few days I began to hear it rumored and discussed among the savages in my vicinity.

For a while it was still a mystery why I escaped while Gallinas fell; but at length the sluggish
mind of Prince Freeman began to understand my diplomacy, and, of course, to repent the sudden
contract that deprived him of a right to rob me. Vexed by disappointment, the scoundrel assembled
his minor chiefs, and named a day during which he knew the Termagant would be absent, to plunder
and punish me for my interference with the welfare and "institutions" of his country. The hostile
meeting took place without my knowledge, though it was disclosed to all my domestics, whose
silence the prince had purchased. Indeed, I would have been completely surprised and cut off,
had it not been for the friendly warning of the negro whose life I had saved from the saucy-wood
ordeal.

I still maintained in my service five white men, and four sailors who were wrecked on the coast
and awaited a passage home. With this party and a few household negroes on whom reliance might
be placed, I resolved at once to defend my quarters. My cannons were loaded, guards placed,
muskets and cartridges distributed, and even the domestics supplied with weapons; yet, on the
very night after the warning, every slave abandoned my premises, while even Lunes himself,--the
companion of my journey to London, and pet of the ladies,--decamped with my favorite fowling-piece.

When I went my rounds next morning, I was somewhat disheartened by appearances; but my spirits
were quickly restored by the following letter from Seagram:

  "HER B. M. BRIG TERMAGANT, OFF TRADE-TOWN,
    "23d January, 1841.

"Sir,

"In your letter of yesterday, you request protection for your property, and inform me that
you are in danger from the princes. I regret, indeed, that such should be the case, more especially
as they have pledged me their words, and signed a 'book' to the effect that they would never
again engage in the slave traffic. But, as I find you have acted in good faith since I commenced
to treat with you on the subject, I shall afford you every assistance in my power, and will
land an armed party of twenty men before daylight on Monday.

  "I am, Sir, your obt. servt.,
    "H. F. SEAGRAM, Lieut. Com'g."

The Termagant's unlooked-for return somewhat dismayed the prince and his ragamuffins, though
he had contrived to assemble quite two thousand men about my premises. Towards noon, however,
there were evident signs of impatience for the expected booty; still, a wholesome dread of
my cannon and small-arms, together with the cruiser's presence, prevented an open attack. After
a while I perceived an attempt to set my stockade on fire, and as a conflagration would have
given a superb opportunity to rob, I made the concerted signal for our British ally. In a twinkling,
three of the cruiser's boats landed an officer with twenty-five musketeers, and before the
savages could make the slightest show of resistance, I was safe under the bayonets of Saint George!

It is needless to set forth the details of my rescue. The prince and his poltroons were panic
struck; and in three or four days my large stock of powder and merchandise was embarked without
loss for Monrovia.

CHAPTER LXVII.

My barracoons and trading establishments were now totally destroyed, and I was once more afloat
in the world. It immediately occurred to me that no opportunity would, perhaps, be more favorable
to carry out my original designs upon Cape Mount, and when I sounded Seagram on the subject,
he was not only willing to carry me there in his cruiser, but desired to witness my treaty
with the prince for a cession of territory.

Our adieus to New Sestros were not very painful, and on the evening of the same day the Termagant
hove to off the bold and beautiful hills of Cape Mount. As the breeze and sun sank together,
leaving a brilliant sky in the west, we descried from deck a couple of tall, raking masts relieved
like cobwebs against the azure. From aloft, still more of the craft was visible, and from our
lieutenant's report after a glance through his glass, there could be no doubt that the stranger
was a slaver.

Light as was the breeze, not a moment elapsed before the cruiser's jib was turned towards her
natural enemy. For a while an ebb from the river and the faint night wind off shore, forced
us seaward, yet at daylight we had gained so little on the chase, that she was still full seven
miles distant.

They who are familiar with naval life will appreciate the annoying suspense on the Termagant
when dawn revealed the calm sea, quiet sky, and tempting but unapproachable prize. The well-known
pluck of our British tars was fired by the alluring vision, and nothing was heard about decks
but prayers for a puff and whistling for a breeze. Meanwhile, Seagram, the surgeon, and purser
were huddled together on the quarter, cursing a calm which deprived them of prize-money if
not of promotion. Our master's mate and passed midshipman were absent in some of the brig's
boats cruising off Gallinas or watching the roadstead of New Sestros.

The trance continued till after breakfast, when our officers' impatience could no longer withstand
the bait, and, though short of efficient boats, the yawl and lieutenant's gig were manned for
a hazardous enterprise. The former was crammed with six sailors, two marines, and a supernumerary
mate; while the gig, a mere fancy craft, was packed with five seamen and four marines under
Seagram himself. Just as this flotilla shoved off, a rough boatswain begged leave to fit out
my nutshell of a native canoe; and embarking with a couple of Kroomen, he squatted amidships,
armed with a musket and cutlass!

This expedition exhausted our stock of nautical men so completely, that as Seagram crossed
the gangway he commended the purser and surgeon to my care, and left Her Majesty's brig in
charge of the reformed slaver!

No sooner did the chase perceive our manoeuvre, than, running in her sweeps, she hoisted a
Spanish flag and fired a warning cartridge. A faint hurrah answered the challenge, while our
argonauts kept on their way, till, from deck, they became lost below the horizon. Presently,
however, the boom of another gun, followed by repeated discharges, rolled through the quiet
air from the Spaniard, and the look-out aloft reported our boats in retreat. Just at this moment,
a light breeze gave headway to the Termagant, so that I was enabled to steer towards the prize,
but before I could overhaul our warriors, the enemy had received the freshening gale, and,
under every stitch of canvas, stood rapidly to sea.

When Seagram regained his deck, he was bleeding profusely from a wound in the head received
from a handspike while attempting to board. Besides this, two men were missing, while three
had been seriously wounded by a shot that sunk the yawl. My gallant boatswain, however, returned
unharmed, and, if I may believe the commander of the "Serea,"--whom I encountered some time
after,--this daring sailor did more execution with his musket than all the marines put together.
The Kroo canoe dashed alongside with the velocity of her class, and, as a petty officer on
the Spaniard bent over to sink the skiff with a ponderous top-block, our boatswain cleft his
skull with a musket ball, and brought home the block as a trophy! In fact, Seagram confessed
that the Spaniard behaved magnanimously; for the moment our yawl was sunk, Olivares cut adrift
his boat, and bade the struggling swimmers return in it to their vessel.

I have described this little affray not so much for its interest, but because it illustrates
the vicissitudes of coast-life and the rapidity of their occurrence. Here was I, on the deck
of a British man-of-war, in charge of her manoeuvres while in chase of a Spaniard, who, for
aught I knew, might have been consigned to me for slaves! I gave my word to Seagram as he embarked,
to manage his ship, and had I attained a position that would have enabled me to sink the "Serea,"
I would not have shrunk from my duty. Yet it afforded me infinite satisfaction to see the chase
escape, for my heart smote me at taking arms against men who had probably broken bread at my board.

CHAPTER LXVIII.

Next day we recovered our anchorage opposite Cape Mount, and wound our way eight or ten miles
up the river to the town of Toso, which was honored with the residence of King Fana-Toro. It
did not require long to satisfy his majesty of the benefits to be derived from my plan. The
news of the destruction of Gallinas, and of the voluntary surrender of my quarters at New Sestros,
had spread like wildfire along the coast; so that when the African princes began to understand
they were no longer to profit by unlawful traffic, they were willing enough not to lose all
their ancient avails, by compromising for a legal commerce, under the sanction of national
flags. I explained my projects to Fana-Toro in the fullest manner, offering him the most liberal
terms. My propositions were forcibly supported by Prince Gray; and a cession of the Mount and
its neighboring territory was finally made, under a stipulation that the purchase-money should
be paid in presence of the negro's council, and the surrender of title witnessed by the Termagant's
officers.[8]

As soon as the contract was fully signed, sealed, and delivered, making Mr. Redman and myself
proprietors, in fee-simple, of this beautiful region, I hastened in company with my naval friends
to explore my little principality for a suitable town-site. We launched our boat on the waters
of the noble lake Plitzogee at Toso, and after steering north-eastwardly for two hours under
the pilotage of Prince Gray, entered a winding creek and penetrated its thickets of mangrove
and palm, till the savage landed us on decayed steps and pavement made of English brick. At
a short distance through the underwood, our conductor pointed out a denuded space which had
once served as the foundation of an English slave factory; and when my companions hesitated
to believe the prince's dishonorable charge on their nation, the negro confirmed it by pointing
out, deeply carved in the bark of a neighboring tree, the name of:--

    T. WILLIAMS,
    1804.

I took the liberty to compliment Seagram and the surgeon on the result of our exploration;
and, after a hearty laugh at the denouement of the prince's search for a lawful homestead,
we plunged still deeper in the forest, but returned without finding a location to my taste.
Next day we recommenced our exploration by land, and, in order to obtain a comprehensive view
of my dominion, as far as the eye would reach, I proposed an ascent of the promontory of the
Cape which lifts its head quite twelve hundred feet above the sea. A toilsome walk of hours
brought us to the summit, but so dense was the foliage and so lofty the magnificent trees,
that, even by climbing the tallest, my scope of vision was hardly increased. As we descended
the slopes, however, towards the strait between the sea and lake, I suddenly came upon a rich,
spacious level, flanked by a large brook of delicious water, and deciding instantly that it
was an admirable spot for intercourse with the ocean as well as interior, I resolved that it
should be the site of my future home. A tar was at hand to climb the loftiest palm, to strip
its bushy head, and hoist the union-jack. Before sundown, I had taken solemn territorial possession,
and baptized the future town "New Florence," in honor of my Italian birthplace.

My next effort was to procure laborers, for whom I invoked the aid of Fana-Toro and the neighboring
chiefs. During two days, forty negroes, whom I hired for their food and a per diem of twenty
cents, wrought faithfully under my direction; but the constant task of felling trees, digging
roots, and clearing ground, was so unusual for savages, that the entire gang, with the exception
of a dozen, took their pay in rum and tobacco and quitted me. A couple of days more, devoted
to such endurance, drove off the remaining twelve, so that on the fifth day of my philanthropic
enterprise I was left in my solitary hut with a single attendant. I had, alas! undertaken a
task altogether unsuited to people whose idea of earthly happiness and duty is divided between
palm-oil, concubinage, and sunshine!

I found it idle to remonstrate with the king about the indolence of his subjects. Fana-Toro
entertained very nearly the same opinion as his slaves. He declared,--and perhaps very sensibly,--that
white men were fools to work from sunrise to sunset every day of their lives; nor could he
comprehend how negroes were expected to follow their example; nay, it was not the "fashion
of Africa;" and, least of all, could his majesty conceive how a man possessed of so much merchandise
and property, would voluntarily undergo the toils I was preparing for the future!

The king's censure and surprise were not encouraging; yet I had so long endured the natural
indolence of negrodom, that I hardly expected either a different reply or influential support,
from his majesty. Nevertheless, I was not disheartened. I remembered the old school-boy maxim,
non vi sed sæpe cadendo, and determined to effect by degrees what I could not achieve at a
bound. For a while I tried the effect of higher wages; but an increase of rum, tobacco, and
coin, could not string the nerves or cord the muscles of Africa. Four men's labor was not equivalent
to one day's work in Europe or America. The negro's philosophy was both natural and self-evident:--why
should he work for pay when he could live without it?--labor could not give him more sunshine,
palm-oil, or wives; and, as for grog and tobacco, they might be had without the infringement
of habits which had almost the sacredness of religious institutions.

With such slender prospects of prosperity at New Florence, I left a man in charge of my hut,
and directing him to get on as well as he could, I visited Monrovia, to look after the merchandise
that had been saved from the wreck of New Sestros.

FOOTNOTE:

[8] As the document granting this beautiful headland and valuable trading post is of some interest,
I have added a copy of the instrument:

"KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, FANA-TORO, King of Cape Mount and its rivers, in the
presence, and with the full consent and approbation of my principal chiefs in council assembled,
in consideration of a mutual friendship existing between GEORGE CLAVERING REDMAN, THEODORE
CANOT & CO., British subjects, and myself, the particulars whereof are under-written, do, for
myself, my heirs and successors, give and grant unto the said George Clavering Redman, Theodore
Canot & Co., their heirs and assigns in perpetuity, all land under the name of CAPE MOUNT,
extending, on the south and east sides, to Little Cape Mount, and on the north-west side to
Sugarei River, comprised with the islands, lakes, brooks, forests, trees, waters, mines, minerals,
rights, members, and appurtenances thereto belonging or appertaining, and all wild and tame
beasts and other animals thereon; TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said cape, rivers, islands, with
both sides of the river and other premises hereby granted unto the said G. CLAVERING REDMAN,
T. CANOT & CO., their heirs and assigns for ever, subject to the authority and dominion of
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN OF GREAT BRITAIN, her heirs and successors.

"And I, also, give and grant unto the said G. C. REDMAN, T. CANOT & CO., the sole and exclusive
rights of traffic with my Nation and People, and with all those tributary to me, and I hereby
engage to afford my assistance and protection to the said party, and to all persons who may
settle on the said cape, rivers, islands, lakes, and both sides of the river, by their consent,
wishing peace and friendship between my nation and all persons belonging to the said firm.

"Given under my hand and seal, at the town of FANAMA, this, twenty-third day of February, one
thousand eight hundred and forty-one.

         his
    "KING X FANA-TORO.    (L. S.)
        mark.

           his
    "PRINCE X GRAY.       (L. S.)
          mark.

"Witnesses,
  "HY. FROWD SEAGRAM, R. N.        }
  "GEO. D. NOBLE, Clerk in Charge. } of Her Majesty's
  "THOS. CRAWFORD, Surgeon.        } brig Termagant."

I paid King Fana-Toro and his chiefs in council the following merchandise in exchange for his
territory: six casks of rum; twenty muskets; twenty quarter-kegs powder; twenty pounds tobacco;
twenty pieces white cottons; thirty pieces blue cottons; twenty iron bars; twenty cutlasses;
twenty wash-basins; and twenty each of several other articles of trifling value.

CHAPTER LXIX.

I might fairly be accused of ingratitude if I passed without notice the Colony of Liberia and
its capital, whose hospitable doors were opened widely to receive an exile, when the barbarians
of New Sestros drove me from that settlement.

It is not my intention to tire the reader with an account of Liberia, for I presume that few
are unacquainted with the thriving condition of those philanthropic lodgments, which hem the
western coast of Africa for near eight hundred miles.

In my former visits to Monrovia, I had been regarded as a dangerous intruder, who was to be
kept for ever under the vigilant eyes of government officials. When my character as an established
slaver was clearly ascertained, the port was interdicted to my vessels, and my appearance in
the town itself prohibited. Now, however, when I came as a fugitive from violence, and with
the acknowledged relinquishment of my ancient traffic, every hand was extended in friendship
and commiseration. The governor and council allowed the landing of my rescued slave-goods on
deposit, while the only two servants who continued faithful were secured to me as apprentices
by the court. Scarcely more than two months ago, the people of this quiet village were disturbed
from sleep by the roll of drums beating for recruits to march against "the slaver Canot;" to-day
I dine with the chief of the colony and am welcomed as a brother! This is another of those
remarkable vicissitudes that abound in this work, and which the critics, in all likelihood,
may consider too often repeated. To my mind, however, it is only another illustration of the
probability of the odd and the strangeness of truth!

I had no difficulty in finding all sorts of workmen in Monrovia, for the colonists brought
with them all the mechanical ingenuity and thrift that characterize the American people. In
four months, with the assistance of a few carpenters, sawyers and blacksmiths, I built a charming
little craft of twenty-five tons, which, in honor of my British protector, I dubbed the "Termagant."
I notice the construction of this vessel, merely to show that the colony and its people were
long ago capable of producing every thing that may be required by a commercial state in the
tropics. When my cutter touched the water, she was indebted to foreign countries for nothing
but her copper, chains and sails, every thing else being the product of Africa and colonial
labor. Had nature bestowed a better harbor on the Mesurado river, and afforded a safer entrance
for large vessels, Monrovia would now be second only to Sierra Leone. Following the beautiful
border of the Saint Paul's, a few miles from Monrovia the eye rests on extensive plains teeming
with luxurious vegetation. The amplest proof has been given of the soil's fertility in the
production of coffee, sugar, cotton and rice. I have frequently seen cane fourteen feet high,
and as thick as any I ever met with in the Indies. Coffee-trees grow much larger than on this
side of the Atlantic; single trees often yielding sixteen pounds, which is about seven more
than the average product in the West Indies.[H] Throughout the entire jurisdiction between
Cape Mount and Cape Palmas, to the St. Andrew's, the soil is equally prolific. Oranges, lemons,
cocoanuts, pine-apples, mangoes, plums, granadillas, sour and sweet sop, plantains, bananas,
guyavas, tamarinds, ginger, sweet potatoes, yams, cassava, and corn, are found in abundance;
while the industry of American settlers has lately added the bread-fruit, rose apple, patanga,
cantelope, water-melon, aguacate and mulberry. Garden culture produces every thing that may
be desired at the most luxurious table.

Much has been said of the "pestilential climate of Africa," and the certain doom of those who
venture within the spell of its miasma. I dare not deny that the coast is scourged by dangerous
maladies, and that nearly all who take up their abode in the colonies are obliged to undergo
the ordeal of a fever which assails them with more or less virulence, according to the health,
constitution, or condition of the patient. Yet I think, if the colonization records are read
with a candid spirit, they will satisfy unprejudiced persons that the mortality of emigrants
has diminished nearly one half, in consequence of the sanitary care exercised by the colonial
authorities during the period of acclimation. The colonies are now amply supplied with lodgings
for new comers, where every thing demanded for comfort, cure, or alleviation, is at hand in
abundance. Colored physicians, who studied their art in America, have acquainted themselves
with the local distempers, and proved their skill by successful practice. Nor is there now
the difficulty or expense which, twelve years ago, before the destruction of the neighboring
slave marts, made it almost impossible to furnish convalescents with that delicate nourishment
which was needed to re-establish their vigor.

       *       *       *       *       *

It may not be amiss if I venture to hope that these colonial experiments, which have been fostered
for the civilization of Africa as well as for the amelioration of the American negro's lot,
will continue to receive the support of all good men. Some persons assert that the race is
incapable of self-government beyond the tribal state, and then only through fear; while others
allege, that no matter what care may be bestowed on African intellect, it is unable to produce
or sustain the highest results of modern civilization. It would not be proper for any one to
speak oracularly on this mooted point; yet, in justice to the negroes who never left their
forests, as well as to those who have imbibed, for more than a generation, the civilization
of Europe or America, I may unhesitatingly say, that the colonial trial has thus far been highly
promising. I have often been present at difficult councils and "palavers" among the wild tribes,
when questions arose which demanded a calm and skilful judgment, and in almost every instance,
the decision was characterized by remarkable good sense and equity. In most of the colonies
the men who are intrusted with local control, a few years since were either slaves in America,
or employed in menial tasks which it was almost hopeless they could escape. Liberia, at present,
may boast of several individuals, who, but for their caste, might adorn society; while they
who have personally known Roberts, Lewis, Benedict, J. B. McGill, Teage, Benson of Grand Bassa,
and Dr. McGill of Cape Palmas, can bear testimony that nature has endowed numbers of the colored
race with the best qualities of humanity.

Nevertheless, the prosperity, endurance and influence of the colonies, are still problems.
I am anxious to see the second generation of the colonists in Africa. I wish to know what will
be the force and development of the negro mind on its native soil,--civilized, but cut off
from all instruction, influence, or association with the white mind. I desire to understand,
precisely, whether the negro's faculties are original or imitative, and consequently, whether
he can stand alone in absolute independence, or is only respectable when reflecting a civilization
that is cast on him by others.

If the descendants of the present colonists, increased by an immense immigration of all classes
and qualities during the next twenty-five years, shall sustain the young nation with that industrial
energy and political dignity that mark its population in our day, we shall hail the realized
fact with infinite delight. We will rejoice, not only because the emancipated negro may thenceforth
possess a realm wherein his rights shall be sacred, but because the civilization with which
the colonies must border the African continent, will, year by year, sink deeper and deeper
into the heart of the interior, till barbarism and Islamism will fade before the light of Christianity.

But the test and trial have yet to come. The colonist of our time is an exotic under glass,--full,
as yet, of sap and stamina drawn from his native America, but nursed with care and exhibited
as the efflorescence of modern philanthropy. Let us hope that this wholesome guardianship will
not be too soon or suddenly withdrawn by the parent societies; but that, while the state of
pupilage shall not be continued till the immigrants and their children are emasculated by lengthened
dependence, it will be upheld until the republic shall exhibit such signs of manhood as cannot
deceive the least hopeful.

FOOTNOTE:

[H] I wish to confirm and fortify this statement in regard to the value of coffee culture in
the colonies, by the observation of Dr. J. W. Lugenbeel, late colonial physician and United
States agent in Liberia. The Doctor gave "particular attention to observations and investigations
respecting coffee culture in Liberia." "I have frequently seen," he says, "isolated trees growing
in different parts of Liberia, which yielded from ten to twenty pounds of clean dry coffee
at one picking; and, however incredible it may appear, it is a fact that one tree in Monrovia
yielded four and a half bushels of coffee in the hull, at one time, which, when dried and shelled,
weighed thirty-one pounds. This is the largest quantity I ever heard of, and the largest tree
I ever saw, being upwards of twenty feet high and of proportionate dimensions."

The Doctor is of opinion, however, that as the coffee-tree begins to bear at the end of its
fourth year, an average yield at the end of the sixth year may be calculated on of at least
four pounds. Three hundred trees may be planted on an acre, giving each twelve feet, and in
six years the culture will become profitable as well as easy.

CHAPTER LXX.

I returned to Cape Mount from the colony with several American mechanics and a fresh assortment
of merchandise for traffic with the natives. During my absence, the agent I left in charge
had contrived, with great labor, to clear a large space in the forest for my projected establishment,
so that with the aid of my Americans, I was soon enabled to give the finishing touch to New
Florence. While the buildings were erecting, I induced a number of natives, by force of double
pay and the authority of their chiefs, to form and cultivate a garden, comprising the luxuries
of Europe and America as well as of the tropics, which, in after days, secured the admiration
of many a naval commander.

As soon as my dwelling was nicely completed, I removed my furniture from the colony; and, still
continuing to drum through the country for business with the Africans, I despatched my Kroomen
and pilots on board of every cruiser that appeared in the offing, to supply them with provisions
and refreshments.

An event took place about this time which may illustrate the manner in which a branch of the
slave-trade is carried on along the coast. Her Britannic Majesty's sloop of war L---- was in
the neighborhood, and landed three of her officers at my quarters to spend a day or two in
hunting the wild boars with which the adjacent country was stocked. But the rain poured down
in such torrents, that, instead of a hunt, I proposed a dinner to my jovial visitors. Soon
after our soup had been despatched on the piazza, there was a rush of natives into the yard,
and I was informed that one of our Bush chiefs had brought in a noted gambler, whom he threatened
either to sell or kill.

It struck me instantly that this would be a good opportunity to give my British friends a sight
of native character, at the same time that they might be enabled, if so disposed, to do a generous
action. Accordingly, I directed my servant to bring the Bushman and gambler before us; and
as the naked victim, with a rope round his neck, was dragged by the savage to our table, I
perceived that it was Soma, who had formerly been in my service on the coast. The vagabond
was an excellent interpreter and connected with the king, but I had been obliged to discharge
him in consequence of his dissipated habits, and especially for having gambled away his youngest
sister, whose release from Gallinas I had been instrumental in securing.

"I have brought Soma to your store-keeper," said the Bushman, "and I want him to buy the varlet.
Soma has been half the day gambling with me. First of all he lost his gun, then his cap, then
his cloth, then his right leg, then his left, then his arms, and, last of all, his head. I
have given his friends a chance to redeem the dog, but as they had bought him half a dozen
times already, there's not a man in the town that will touch him. Soma never pays his debts;
and now, Don Téodore, I have brought him here, and if you don't buy him, I'll take him to the
water-side and cut his throat!"

There,--with an imploring countenance, bare as he came into the world, a choking cord round
his throat, and with pinioned arms,--stood the trembling gambler, as I glanced in vain from
the Bushman to the officers, in expectation of his release by those philanthropists! As Soma
spoke English, I told him in our language, that I had no pity for his fate, and that he must
take the chances he had invoked. Twenty dollars would have saved his life, and yet the British
did not melt! "Take him off," said I sternly, to the Bushman, "and use him as you choose!"--but
at the same moment, a wink to my interpreter sufficed, and the Bushman returned to the forest
with tobacco and rum, while Soma was saved from slaughter. It is by no means improbable that
the gambler is now playing monte on some plantation in Cuba.

       *       *       *       *       *

I continued my labors at New Florence without intermission for several months, but when I cast
up my account, I found the wages and cost of building so enormous, that my finances would soon
be exhausted. Accordingly, by the advice of my friend Seagram, as well as of Captain Tucker,
who commanded on the station, I petitioned Lord Stanley to grant me one hundred recaptured
Africans to till my grounds and learn the rudiments of agricultural industry. Some time elapsed
before an answer was sent, but when it came, my prospects were dashed to the earth.

  "GOVERNMENT HOUSE, SIERRA LEONE,
    "28th October, 1843.

"SIR:

"I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated August last, inclosing the copy of a
petition, the original of which you had transmitted to the acting Lieutenant Governor Ferguson,
for the purpose of having it forwarded to her Majesty's Government.

"In reply, I have to acquaint you, that by the receipt of a despatch from the Rt. Hon. Lord
Stanley, Secretary of State for the Colonies, bearing date 8th April 1842, his Lordship states
that he cannot sanction a compliance with your request to have a number of liberated Africans,
as apprentices, in tilling your grounds; and further, that he could not recognize the purchase
of Cape Mount, as placing that district under the protection and sovereignty of the British crown.

"I beg to add, that I am glad to be informed by Captain Oake that the vessel, alluded to in
your letter, which you had been unable to despatch for want of a license, had obtained one
for that purpose from the governor of Monrovia.

  "I am, sir, your obedient servant,

    "G. MAC DONALD,
      "Governor.

  "To MR. THEODORE CANOT."

The picture that had been painted by my imagination with so many bright scenes and philanthropic
hopes, fell as I finished this epistle. It not only clouded my future prospects of lawful commerce,
but broke off, at once, the correspondence with my generous friend Redman in London. As I dropped
the missive on the table, I ordered the palm-tree on which I had first unfurled the British
flag to be cut down; and next day, on a tall pole, in full view of the harbor, I hoisted a
tri-colored banner, adorned by a central star, which I caused to be baptized, in presence of
Fana-Toro, with a salvo of twenty guns.

I am not naturally of a mischievous or revengeful temper, but I can scarcely find language
to express the mortification I experienced when Lord Stanley thwarted my honest intentions,
by his refusal to protect the purchase whereon I had firmly resolved to be an ally and friend,
in concentrating a lawful commerce. I was especially disgusted by this mistrust, or mistake,
after the flattering assurances with which my design had, from the first, been cherished by
the British officers on the station. I may confess that, for a moment, I almost repented the
confidence I had reposed in the British lion, and was at a loss whether to abandon Cape Mount
and return to my former traffic, or to till the ground and play waterman to the fleet.

After proper deliberation, however, I resolved to take the plough for my device; and before
Christmas, I had already ordered from England a large supply of agricultural implements and
of every thing requisite for elaborate husbandry. After this, I purchased forty youths to be
employed on a coffee plantation, and to drag my ploughs till I obtained animals to replace
them. In a short time I had abundance of land cleared, and an over-seer's house erected for
an old barracoonier, who, I am grieved to say, turned out but a sorry farmer. He had no idea
of systematic labor or discipline save by the lash, so that in a month, four of his gang were
on the sick list, and five had deserted. I replaced the Spaniard by an American colored man,
who, in turn, made too free with my people and neglected the plantations. My own knowledge
of agriculture was so limited, that unless I fortified every enterprise by constant reference
to books, I was unable to direct my hands with skill; and, accordingly, with all these mishaps
to my commerce and tillage, I became satisfied that it was easier to plough the ocean than
the land.

Still I was not disheartened. My trade, on a large scale, with the interior, and my agriculture
had both failed; yet I resolved to try the effect of traffic in a humble way, combined with
such mechanical pursuits as would be profitable on the coast. Accordingly, I divided a gang
of forty well-drilled negroes into two sections, retaining the least intelligent on the farm,
while the brighter youths were brought to the landing. Here I laid out a ship-yard, blacksmith's
shop, and sawpit, placing at the head of each, a Monrovian colonist to instruct my slaves.
In the mean time the neighboring natives, as well as the people some distance in the interior,
were apprised by my runners of the new factory I was forming at Cape Mount.

By the return of the dry season our establishment gave signs of renewed vitality. Within the
fences of New Florence there were already twenty-five buildings and a population of one hundred,
and nothing was wanting but a stock of cattle, which I soon procured from the Kroo country.

Thus, for a long time all things went on satisfactorily, not only with the natives, but with
foreign traders and cruisers, till a native war embarrassed my enterprise, and brought me in
contact with the enemies of King Fana-Toro, of whose realm and deportment I must give some account.

CHAPTER LXXI.

The Africans who cluster about the bold headland of Cape Mount,--which, in fair weather, greets
the mariner full thirty miles at sea,--belong to the Vey tribe, and are in no way inferior
to the best classes of natives along the coast. Forty or fifty families constitute "a town,"
the government of which is generally in the hands of the oldest man, who administers justice
by a "palaver" held in public, wherein the seniors of the settlement are alone consulted. These
villages subject themselves voluntarily to the protectorate of larger towns, whose chief arbitrates
as sovereign without appeal in all disputes among towns under his wardship; yet, as his judgments
are not always pleasing, the dissatisfied desert their huts, and, emigrating to another jurisdiction,
build their village anew within its limits.

The Veys of both sexes are well-built, erect, and somewhat stately. Their faith differs but
little from that prevalent among the Soosoos of the Rio Pongo. They believe in a superior power
that may be successfully invoked through gree-grees and fetiches, but which is generally obstinate
or mischievous. It is their idea that the good are rewarded after death by transformation into
some favorite animal; yet their entire creed is not subject to any definite description, for
they blend the absurdities of Mahometanism with those of paganism, and mellow the whole by
an acknowledgment of a supreme deity.

The Vey, like other uncontaminated Ethiopians, is brought up in savage neglect by his parents,
crawling in perfect nakedness about the villages, till imitation teaches him the use of raiment,
which, in all likelihood, he first of all obtains by theft. There is no difference between
the sexes during their early years. A sense of shame or modesty seems altogether unknown or
disregarded; nor is it unusual to find ten or a dozen of both genders huddled promiscuously
beneath a roof whose walls are not more than fifteen feet square.

True to his nature, a Vey bushman rises in the morning to swallow his rice and cassava, and
crawls back to his mat which is invariably placed in the sunshine, where he simmers till noontide,
when another wife serves him with a second meal. The remainder of daylight is passed either
in gossip or a second siesta, till, at sundown, his other wives wash his body, furnish a third
meal, and stretch his wearied limbs before a blazing fire to refresh for the toils of the succeeding
day. In fact, the slaves of a household, together with its females, form the entire working
class of Africa, and in order to indoctrinate the gentler sex in its future toils and duties,
there seems to be a sort of national seminary which is known as the Gree-gree-bush.

The Gree-gree-bush is a secluded spot or grove of considerable extent in the forest, apart
from dwellings and cultivated land though adjacent to villages, which is considered as consecrated
ground and forbidden to the approach of men. The establishment within this precinct consists
of a few houses, with an extensive area for exercise. It is governed chiefly by an old woman
of superior skill and knowledge, to whose charge the girls of a village are intrusted as soon
as they reach the age of ten or twelve. There are various opinions of the use and value of
this institution in the primitive polity of Africa. By some writers it is treated as a religious
cloister for the protection of female chastity, while by others it is regarded as a school
of licentiousness. From my own examination of the establishment, I am quite satisfied that
a line drawn between these extremes will, most probably, characterize the "bush" with accuracy,
and that what was originally a conservative seclusion, has degenerated greatly under the lust
of tropical passions.

As the procession of novices who are about to enter the grove approaches the sanctuary, music
and dancing are heard and seen on every side. As soon as the maidens are received, they are
taken by the gree-gree women to a neighboring stream, where they are washed, and undergo an
operation which is regarded as a sort of circumcision. Anointed from head to foot with palm-oil,
they are next reconducted to their home in the gree-gree bush. Here, under strict watch, they
are maintained by their relatives or those who are in treaty for them as wives, until they
reach the age of puberty. At this epoch the important fact is announced by the gree-gree woman
to the purchaser or future husband, who, it is expected, will soon prepare to take her from
the retreat. Whenever his new house is ready for the bride's reception, it is proclaimed by
the ringing of bells and vociferous cries during night. Next day search is made by females
through the woods, to ascertain whether intruders are lurking about, but when the path is ascertained
to be clear, the girl is forthwith borne to a rivulet, where she is washed, anointed, and clad
in her best attire. From thence she is borne, amid singing, drumming, shouting, and firing,
in the arms of her female attendants, till her unsoiled feet are deposited on the husband's
floor.[9]

I believe this institution exists throughout a large portion of Africa, and such is the desire
to place females within the bush, that poor parents who cannot pay the initiatory fee, raise
subscriptions among their friends to obtain the requisite slave whose gift entitles their child
to admission. Sometimes, it is said, that this human ticket is stolen to effect the desired
purpose, and that no native power can recover the lost slave when once within the sacred precincts.

The gree-gree-bush is not only a resort of the virgin, but of the wife, in those seasons when
approaching maternity indicates need of repose and care. In a few hours, the robust mother
issues with her new-born child, and after a plunge into the nearest brook, returns to the domestic
drudgery which I have already described.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the time of Fana-Toro, Toso was the royal residence where his majesty played sovereign and
protector over six towns and fifteen villages. His government was generally considered patriarchal.
When I bought Cape Mount, the king numbered "seventy-seven rains," equivalent to so many years;--he
was small, wiry, meagre, erect, and proud of the respect he universally commanded. His youth
was notorious among the tribes for intrepidity, and I found that he retained towards enemies
a bitter resentment that often led to the commission of atrocious cruelties.

It was not long after my instalment at the Cape, that I accidentally witnessed the ferocity
of this chief. Some trifling "country affair" caused me to visit the king; but upon landing
at Toso I was told he was abroad. The manner of my informant, however, satisfied me that the
message was untrue; and accordingly, with the usual confidence of a "white man" in Africa,
I searched his premises till I encountered him in the "palaver-house." The large inclosure
was crammed with a mob of savages, all in perfect silence around the king, who, in an infuriate
manner, with a bloody, knife in his hand, and a foot on the dead body of a negro, was addressing
the carcass. By his side stood a pot of hissing oil, in which the heart of his enemy was frying!

My sudden and, perhaps, improper entrance, seemed to exasperate the infidel, who, calling me
to his side, knelt on the corpse, and digging it repeatedly with his knife, exclaimed with
trembling passion, that it was his bitterest and oldest foe's! For twenty years he had butchered
his people, sold his subjects, violated his daughters, slain his sons, and burnt his towns;--and
with each charge, the savage enforced his assertion by a stab.

I learned that the slaughtered captive was too brave and wary to be taken alive in open conflict.
He had been kidnapped by treachery, and as he could not be forced to walk to Toso, the king's
trappers had cooped him in a huge basket, which they bore on their shoulders to the Cape. No
sooner was the brute in his captor's presence, than he broke a silence of three days by imprecations
on Fana-Toro. In a short space, his fate was decided in the scene I had witnessed, while his
body was immediately burnt to prevent it from taking the form of some ferocious beast which
might vex the remaining years of his royal executioner!

This was the only instance of Fana-Toro's barbarity that came under my notice, and in its perpetration
he merely followed the example of his ancestors in obedience to African ferocity. Yet, of his
intrepidity and nobler endurance, I will relate an anecdote which was told me by reliable persons.
Some twenty years before my arrival at the Cape, large bands of mercenary bushmen had joined
his enemies along the beach, and after desolating his territory, sat down to beleaguer the
stockade of Toso. For many a day thirst and hunger were quietly suffered under the resolute
command of the king, but at length, when their pangs became unendurable, and the people demanded
a surrender, Fana-Toro strode into the "palaver-house," commanding a sortie with his famished
madmen. The warriors protested against the idea, for their ammunition was exhausted. Then arose
a wild shout for the king's deposition and the election of a chief to succeed him. A candidate
was instantly found and installed; but no sooner had he been chosen, than Fana-Toro,--daring
the new prince to prove a power of endurance equal to his own,--plunged his finger in a bowl
of boiling oil, and held it over the fire, without moving a muscle, till the flesh was crisped
to the bone.

It is hardly necessary to say that the sovereign was at once restored to his rights, or that,
availing himself of the fresh enthusiasm, he rushed upon his besiegers, broke their lines,
routed the mercenaries, and compelled his rival to sue for peace. Until the day of his death,
that mutilated hand was the boast of his people.

The Vey people mark with some ceremony the extremes of human existence--birth and death. Both
events are honored with feasting, drinking, dancing, and firing; and the descendants of the
dead sometimes impoverish, and even ruin themselves, to inter a venerable parent with pomp.

Prince Gray, the son of Fana-Toro, whom I have already mentioned, died during my occupation
of Cape Mount. I was at Mesurado when the event happened, but, as soon as I heard it, I resolved
to unite with his relations in the last rites to his memory. Gray was not only a good negro
and kind neighbor, but, as my fast friend in "country matters," his death was a personal calamity.

The breath was hardly out of the prince's body, when his sons, who owned but little property
and had no slaves for sale, hastened to my agent, and pledged their town of Panama for means
to defray his funeral. In the mean time, the corpse, swathed in twenty large country sheets,
and wrapped in twenty pieces of variegated calico, was laid out in a hut, where it was constantly
watched and smoked by three of the favorite widows.

After two months devotion to moaning and seasoning, notice was sent forty miles round the country,
summoning the tribes to the final ceremony. On the appointed day the corpse was brought from
the hut, a perfect mass of bacon. As the procession moved towards the palaver-house, the prince's
twenty wives--almost entirely denuded, their heads shaved, and their bodies smeared with dust--were
seen following his remains. The eldest spouse appeared covered with self-inflicted bruises,
burns, and gashes--all indications of sorrow and future uselessness.

The crowd reached the apartment, singing the praises of the defunct in chorus, when the body
was laid on a new mat, covered with his war shirt, while the parched lump that indicated his
head was crowned with the remains of a fur hat. All the amulets, charms, gree-grees, fetiches
and flummery of the prince were duly bestowed at his sides. While these arrangements were making
within, his sons stood beneath an adjoining verandah, to receive the condolences of the invited
guests, who, according to custom, made their bows and deposited a tribute of rice, palm-oil,
palm-wine, or other luxuries, to help out the merry-making.

When I heard of the prince's death at Monrovia, I resolved not to return without a testimonial
of respect for my ally, and ordered an enormous coffin to be prepared without delay. In due
time the huge chest was made ready, covered with blue cotton, studded with brass nails, and
adorned with all the gilded ornaments I could find in Monrovia. Besides this splendid sarcophagus,
my craft from the colony was ballasted with four bullocks and several barrels of rum, as a
contribution to the funeral.

I had timed my arrival at Fanama, so as to reach the landing about ten o'clock on the morning
of burial; and, after a salute from my brazen guns, I landed the bullocks, liquor, and coffin,
and marched toward the princely gates.

The unexpected appearance of the white friend of their father, lord, and husband, was greeted
by the family with a loud wail, and, as a mark of respect, I was instantly lifted in the arms
of the weeping women, and deposited on the mat beside the corpse. Here I rested, amid cries
and lamentations, till near noon, when the bullocks were slaughtered, and their blood offered
in wash-bowls to the dead. As soon as this was over, the shapeless mass was stowed in the coffin
without regard to position, and borne by six carriers to the beach, where it was buried in
a cluster of cotton-woods.

On our return to Fanama from the grave, the eldest son of the deceased was instantly saluted
as prince. From this moment the festivities began, and, at sundown, the twenty widows reappeared
upon the ground, clad in their choicest raiment, their shaven skulls anointed with oil, and
their limbs loaded with every bead and bracelet they could muster. Then began the partition
of these disconsolate relicts among the royal family. Six were selected by the new prince,
who divided thirteen among his brothers and kinsmen, but gave his mother to his father-in-law.
As soon as the allotment was over, his highness very courteously offered me the choice of his
six, in return for my gifts; but as I never formed a family tie with natives, I declined the
honor, as altogether too overwhelming!

FOOTNOTE:

[9] See Maryland Colonization Journal, vol. i., n. s., p. 212.

CHAPTER LXXII.

When I was once comfortably installed at my motley establishment, and, under the management
of Colonists, had initiated the native workmen into tolerable skill with the adze, saw, sledgehammer
and forge, I undertook to build a brig of one hundred tons. In six months, people came from
far and near to behold the mechanical marvels of Cape Mount. Meanwhile, my plantation went
on slowly, while my garden became a matter of curiosity to all the intelligent coasters and
cruisers, though I could never enlighten the natives as to the value of the "foreign grass"
which I cultivated so diligently. They admired the symmetry of my beds, the richness of my
pine-apples, the luxurious splendor of my sugar-cane, the abundance of my coffee, and the cool
fragrance of the arbors with which I adorned the lawn; but they would never admit the use of
my exotic vegetables. In order to water my premises, I turned the channel of a brook, surrounding
the garden with a perfect canal; and, as its sides were completely laced with an elaborate
wicker-work of willows, the aged king and crowds of his followers came to look upon the Samsonian
task as one of the wonders of Africa. "What is it," exclaimed Fana-Toro, as he beheld the deflected
water-course, "that a white man cannot do!" After this, his majesty inspected all my plants,
and shouted again with surprise at the toil we underwent to satisfy our appetites. The use
or worth of flowers, of which I had a rare and beautiful supply, he could never divine; but
his chief amazement was still devoted to our daily expenditure of time, strength, and systematic
toil, when rice and palm-oil would grow wild while we were sleeping!

       *       *       *       *       *

It will be seen from this sketch of my domestic comforts and employment, that New Florence
prospered in every thing but farming and trade. At first it was my hope, that two or three
years of perseverance would enable me to open a lawful traffic with the interior; but I soon
discovered that the slave-trade was alone thought of by the natives, who only bring the neighboring
produce to the beach, when their captives are ready for a market. I came, moreover, to the
conclusion that the interior negroes about Cape Mount had no commerce with Eastern tribes except
for slaves, and consequently that its small river will never create marts like those which
have direct communications by water with the heart of a rich region, and absorb its gold, ivory,
wax, and hides. To meet these difficulties, I hastened the building of my vessel as a coaster.

About this time, an American craft called the A----, arrived in my neighborhood. She was loaded
with tobacco, calicoes, rum, and powder. Her captain who was unskilled in coast-trade, and
ignorant of Spanish, engaged me to act as supercargo for him to Gallinas. In a very short period
I disposed of his entire investment. The trim and saucy rig of this Yankee clipper bewitched
the heart of a Spanish trader who happened to be among the lagunes, and an offer was forthwith
made, through me, for her purchase. The bid was accepted at once, and the day before Christmas
fixed as the period of her delivery, after a trip to the Gaboon.

In contracting to furnish this slaver with a craft and the necessary apparatus for his cargo,
it would be folly for me to deny that I was dipping once more into my ancient trade; yet, on
reflection, I concluded that in covering the vessel for a moment with my name, I was no more
amenable to rebuke, than the respectable merchants of Sierra Leone and elsewhere who passed
hardly a day without selling, to notorious slavers, such merchandise as could be used alone
in slave-wars or slave-trade. It is probable that the sophism soothed my conscience at the
moment, though I could never escape the promise that sealed my agreement with Lieutenant Seagram.

The appointed day arrived, and my smoking semaphores announced the brigantine's approach to
Sugarei, three miles from Cape Mount. The same evening the vessel was surrendered to me by
the American captain, who landed his crew and handed over his flag and papers. As soon as I
was in charge, no delay was made to prepare for the reception of freight; and by sunrise I
resigned her to the Spaniard, who immediately embarked seven hundred negroes, and landed them
in Cuba in twenty-seven days.

Till now the British cruisers had made Cape Mount their friendly rendezvous, but the noise
of this shipment in my neighborhood, and my refusal to explain or converse on the subject,
gave umbrage to officers who had never failed to supply themselves from my grounds and larder.
In fact I was soon marked as an enemy of the squadron, while our intercourse dwindled to the
merest shadow. In the course of a week, the Commander on the African station, himself, hove
to off the Cape, and summoning me on board, concluded a petulant conversation by remarking
that "a couple of men like Monsieur Canot would make work enough in Africa for the whole British
squadron!"

I answered the compliment with a profound salaam, and went over the Penelope's side satisfied
that my friendship was at an end with her Majesty's cruisers.

       *       *       *       *       *

The portion of Cape Mount whereon I pitched my tent, had been so long depopulated by the early
wars against Fana-Toro, that the wild beasts reasserted their original dominion over the territory.
The forest was full of leopards, wild cats, cavallis or wild boars, and ourang-outangs.

Very soon after my arrival, a native youth in my employ had been severely chastised for misconduct,
and in fear of repetition, fled to the mount after supplying himself with a basket of cassava.
As his food was sufficient for a couple of days, we thought he might linger in the wood till
the roots were exhausted, and then return to duty. But three days elapsed without tidings from
the truant. On the fourth, a diligent search disclosed his corpse in the forest, every limb
dislocated and covered with bites apparently made by human teeth. It was the opinion of the
natives that the child had been killed by ourang-outangs, nor can I doubt their correctness,
for when I visited the scene of the murder, the earth for a large space around, was covered
with the footprints of the beast and scattered with the skins of its favorite esculent.

I was more annoyed, however, at first, by leopards than any other animal. My cattle could not
stray beyond the fences, nor could my laborers venture abroad at any time without weapons.
I made use of spring-traps, pit-fall, and various expedients to purify the forest; but such
was the cunning or agility of our nimble foes that they all escaped. The only mode by which
I succeeded in freeing the homestead of their ravages, was by arming the muzzle of a musket
with a slice of meat which was attached by a string to the trigger, so that the load and the
food were discharged into the leopard's mouth at the same moment. Thus, by degrees as my settlement
grew, the beasts receded from the promontory and its adjacent grounds; and in a couple of years,
the herds were able to roam where they pleased without danger.

Cape Mount had long been deserted by elephants, but about forty miles from my dwelling, on
the upper forests of the lake, the noble animal might still be hunted; and whenever the natives
were fortunate enough to "bag" a specimen, I was sure to be remembered in its division. If
the prize proved a male, I received the feet and trunk, but if it turned out of the gentler
gender, I was honored with the udder, as a royal bonne-bouche.

In Africa a slaughtered elephant is considered public property by the neighboring villagers,
all of whom have a right to carve the giant till his bones are bare. A genuine sportsman claims
nothing but the ivory and tail, the latter being universally a perquisite of the king. Yet
I frequently found that associations were made among the natives to capture this colossal beast
and his valuable tusks. Upon these occasions, a club was formed on the basis of a whaling cruise,
while a single but well-known hunter was chosen to do execution. One man furnished the muskets,
another supplied the powder, a third gave the iron bolts for balls, a fourth made ready the
provender, while a fifth despatched a bearer with the armament. As soon as the outfit was completed,
the huntsman's juju and fetiche were invoked for good luck, and he departed under an escort
of wives and associates.

An African elephant is smaller, as well as more cunning and wild, than the Asiatic. Accordingly,
the sportsman is often obliged to circumvent his game during several days, for it is said that
in populous districts, its instincts are so keen as to afford warning of the neighborhood of
fire-arms, even at extraordinary distances. The common and most effectual mode of enticing
an elephant within reach of a ball, is to strew the forest for several miles with pine-apples,
whose flavor and fragrance infallibly bewitch him. By degrees, he tracks and nibbles the fruit
from slice to slice, till, lured within the hunter's retreat, he is despatched from the branches
of a lofty tree by repeated shots at his capacious forehead.

Sometimes it happens that four or five discharges with the wretched powder used in Africa fail
to slay the beast, who escapes from the jungle and dies afar from the encounter. When this
occurs, an attendant is despatched for a reinforcement, and I have seen a whole settlement
go forth en masse to search for the monster that will furnish food for many a day. Sometimes
the crowd is disappointed, for the wounds have been slight and the animal is seen no more.
Occasionally, a dying elephant will linger a long time, and is only discovered by the buzzards
hovering above his body. Then it is that the bushmen, guided by the vultures, haste to the
forest, and fall upon the putrid flesh with more avidity than birds of prey. Battles have been
fought on the carcass of an elephant, and many a slave, captured in the conflict, has been
marched from the body to the beach.

CHAPTER LXXIII.

The war, whose rupture I mentioned at the end of the seventieth chapter, spread rapidly throughout
our borders; and absorbing the entire attention of the tribe, gave an impulse to slavery which
had been unwitnessed since my advent to the Cape. The reader may readily appreciate the difficulty
of my position in a country, hemmed in by war which could only be terminated by slaughter or
slavery. Nor could I remain neutral in New Florence, which was situated on the same side of
the river as Toso, while the enemies of Fana-Toro were in complete possession of the opposite bank.

When I felt that the rupture between the British and myself was not only complete but irreparable,
I had less difficulty in deciding my policy as to the natives; and, chiefly under the impulse
of self-protection, I resolved to serve the cause of my ancient ally. I made whatever fortifications
could be easily defended in case of attack, and, by way of show, mounted some cannon on a boat
which was paraded about the waters in a formidable way. My judgment taught me from the outset
that it was folly to think of joining actively in the conflict; for, while I had but three
white men in my quarters, and the colonists had returned to Monrovia, my New Sestros experience
taught me the value of bondsmen's backing.

Numerous engagements and captures took place by both parties, so that my doors were daily besieged
by a crowd of wretches sent by Fana-Toro to be purchased for shipment. I declined the contract
with firmness and constancy, but so importunate was the chief that I could not resist his desire
that a Spanish factor might come within my limits with merchandise from Gallinas to purchase
his prisoners. "He could do nothing with his foes," he said, "when in his grasp, but slay or
sell them." The king's enemy, on the opposite shore, disposed of his captives to Gallinas,
and obtained supplies of powder and ball, while Fana-Toro, who had no vent for his prisoners,
would have been destroyed without my assistance.

Matters continued in this way for nearly two years, during which the British kept up so vigilant
a blockade at Cape Mount and Gallinas, that the slavers had rarely a chance to enter a vessel
or run a cargo. In time, the barracoons became so gorged, that the slavers began to build their
own schooners. When the A---- was sold, I managed to retain her long-boat in my service, but
such was now the value of every egg-shell on the coast, that her owner despatched a carpenter
from Gallinas, who, in a few days, decked, rigged, and equipped her for sea. She was twenty-three
feet long, four feet deep, and five feet beam, so that, when afloat, her measurement could
not have exceeded four tons. Yet, on a dark and stormy night, she dropped down the river, and
floated out to sea through the besieging lines, with thirty-three black boys, two sailors,
and a navigator. In less than forty days she transported the whole of her living freight across
the Atlantic to Bahia. The negroes almost perished from thirst, but the daring example was
successfully followed during the succeeding year, by skiffs of similar dimensions.

       *       *       *       *       *

I can hardly hope that a narrative of my dull routine, while I lingered on the coast, entirely
aloof from the slave-trade, would either interest or instruct the general reader. The checkered
career I have already exposed, has portrayed almost every phase of African life. If I am conscious
of any thing during my domicile at Cape Mount, it is of a sincere desire to prosper by lawful
and honorable thrift. But, between the native wars, the turmoil of intruding slavers, and the
suspicions of the English, every thing went wrong. The friendship of the colonists at Cape
Palmas and Monrovia was still unabated; appeals were made by missionaries for my influence
with the tribes; coasters called on me as usual for supplies; yet, with all these encouragements
for exertion, I must confess that my experiment was unsuccessful.

Nor was this all. I lost my cutter, laden with stores and merchandise for my factory. A vessel,
filled with rice and lumber for my ship-yard, was captured on suspicion, and, though sent across
the Atlantic for adjudication, was dismissed uncondemned. The sudden death of a British captain
from Sierra Leone, deprived me of three thousand dollars. Fana-Toro made numerous assaults
on his foes, all of which failed; and, to cap the climax of my ills, on returning after a brief
absence, I found that a colonist, whom I had rescued from misery and employed in my forge,
had fled to the enemy, carrying with him a number of my most useful servants.

It was about this time that circumstances obliged me to make a rapid voyage to New York and
back to Africa, where the blind goddess had another surprise in store for me. During my absence,
our ancient king was compelled to make a treaty with his rival, who, under the name of George
Cain, dwelt formerly among the American colonists and acquired our language. It was by treachery
alone that Fana-Toro had been dragooned into an arrangement, by which my quondam blacksmith,
who married a sister of Cain, was elevated to the dignity of prince George's premier!

Both these scamps, with a troop of their followers, planted themselves on my premises near
the beach, and immediately let me understand that they were my sworn enemies. Cain could not
pardon the aid I gave to Fana-Toro in his earlier conflicts, nor would the renegade colonist
forsake his kinsman or the African barbarism, into which he had relapsed.

By degrees, these varlets, whom I was unable, in my crippled condition, to dislodge, obtained
the ears of the British commanders, and poured into them every falsehood that could kindle
their ire. The Spanish factory of Fana-Toro's agent was reported to be mine. The shipment in
the A---- and the adventure of her boat, were said to be mine. Another suspected clipper was
declared to be mine. These, and a hundred lies of equal baseness, were adroitly purveyed to
the squadron by the outlaws, and, in less than a month, my fame was as black as the skin of
my traducers. Still, even at this distant day, I may challenge my worst enemy on the coast
to prove that I participated, after 1839, in the purchase of a single slave for transportation
beyond the sea!

From the moment that the first dwelling was erected at New Florence, I carefully enforced the
most rigid decorum between the sexes throughout my jurisdiction. It was the boast of our friends
at Cape Palmas and Monrovia, that my grounds were free from the debauchery, which, elsewhere
in Africa, was unhappily too common. I have had the honor to entertain at my table at Cape
Mount, not only the ordinary traders of the coast, but commodores of French squadrons, commanders
of British and American cruisers, governors of colonies, white and colored missionaries, as
well as innumerable merchants of the first respectability, and I have yet to meet the first
of them, in any part of the world, who can redden my cheek with a blush.

But such was not the case at the Cape after Cain and Curtis became the pets of the cruisers,
and converted the beach into a brothel.[10]

After a brief sojourn at my quarters to repair "The Chancellor," in which I had come with a
cargo from the United States, I hastened towards Gallinas to dispose of our merchandise. We
had been already boarded by an American officer, who reported us to his superior as a regular
merchantman; yet, such were the malicious representations on the beach against the vessel and
myself, that the Dolphin tarried a month at the anchorage to watch our proceedings. When I
went to the old mart of Don Pedro, a cruiser dogged us; when I sailed to leeward of Cape Palmas
for oil and ivory, another took charge of our movements,--anchoring where we anchored, getting
under way when we did, and following us into every nook and corner. At Grand Buttoa, I took
"The Chancellor" within a reef of rocks, and here I was left to proceed as I pleased, while
the British cruiser returned to Cape Mount.

The fifteenth of March, eighteen hundred and forty-seven, is scored in my calendar with black.
It was on the morning of that day that the commander who escorted me so warily as far as Buttoa,
landed a lieutenant and sailors at New Florence, and unceremoniously proceeded to search my
premises for slaves. As none were found, the valiant captors seized a couple of handcuffs,
like those in use every where to secure refractory seamen, and carried them on board to their
commander. Next day, several boats, with marines and sailors, led by a British captain and
lieutenant, landed about noon, and, without notice, provocation, or even allowing my clerk
to save his raiment, set fire to my brigantine, store-houses, and dwelling.

As I was absent, I cannot vouch for every incident of this transaction, but I have the utmost
confidence in the circumstantial narrative which my agent, Mr. Horace Smith, soon after prepared
under oath at Monrovia. The marines and Kroomen were permitted to plunder at will. Cain and
Curtis revelled in the task of philanthropic destruction. While the sailors burnt my houses,
these miscreants and their adherents devoted themselves to the ruin of my garden, fruit trees,
plantations, and waterworks. My cattle, even, were stolen, to be sold to the squadron; and,
ere night, New Florence was a smouldering heap!

I would gladly have turned the last leaf of this book without a murmur, had not this wanton
outrage been perpetrated, not only while I was abroad, but without a shadow of justice. To
this hour, I am ignorant of any lawful cause, or of any thing but suspicion, that may be alleged
in palliation of the high-handed wrong. Not a line or word was left, whereby I could trace
a pretext for my ruin.

Three days after the catastrophe, my ancient ally of Toso paid the debt of nature. In a month,
his tribes awoke from their stupor with one of those fiery spasms that are not uncommon in
Africa, and, missing their "white man" and his merchandise, rose in a mass, and, without a
word of warning, sacrificed the twin varlets of the beach and restored their lawful prince.

FOOTNOTE:

[10] I have spoken of visits and appeals from missionaries, and will here insert a letter of
introduction which I received by the hands of the Reverend Mr. Williams, whilst I inhabited
Cape Mount. Mr. Williams had been a former governor of Liberia, and was deputed to Cape Mount
by the Methodist Episcopal Mission, in Liberia.

"DEAR SIR:

"This will be handed you by the Rev. A. D. Williams, a minister of the M. E. Church, with whom
you are so well acquainted that I hardly need introduce him. It is a matter of regret that
I am so situated as to be unable to accompany Mr. Williams to Cape Mount. It would have afforded
me pleasure to visit your establishment, and it might have facilitated our mission operations,
could I have done so. Allow me, however to bespeak for Mr. Williams your attention and patronage,
both of which you have, in conversation, so kindly promised.

"Our object is to elevate the natives of Cape Mount; to establish a school for children; to
have divine service regularly performed on the Sabbath; and thus to endeavor to introduce among
the people a knowledge of the only wise and true God and the blessings of Christianity. Such
is the immense influence you have over the Cape Mount people, in consequence of your large
territorial possessions, that a great deal of the success of our efforts will depend on you.

"To your endeavors, then, for our prosperity, we look very anxiously. In the course of a few
months, should circumstances warrant the expense, I intend to erect suitable buildings for
divine service, and for the occupation of the missionary and his family. In this case, we shall
have to intrude on your land for building room. I shall endeavor to visit Cape Mount as soon
as possible.

  "I remain, my dear sir,
    "Yours truly,
      "JOHN SEYS.

  "TO THEODORE CANOT, ESQ.,
    "Cape Mount."

It would have afforded me sincere pleasure to gratify Messrs. Williams and Seys but, unluckily,
they had chosen the worst time imaginable for the establishment of a mission and school. The
country was ravaged by war, and the towns were depopulated. The passions of the tribes were
at their height. Still, as I had promised my co-operation, I introduced the Rev. Mr. Williams
to the king, who courteously told the missionary all the dangers and difficulties of his position,
but promised, should the conflict speedily end, to send him notice, when a "book-man" would
be received with pleasure.

To give my reverend friend a proof of the scarcity of people in the towns, I sent messages
to Toso, Fanama and Sugarei, for the inhabitants to assemble at New Florence on the next Sunday,
to hear "God's palabra," (as they call sacred instruction;) but when the Sabbath came, the
Rev. Mr. Williams held forth to my clerk, mechanics and servants, alone!

I reported the mortifying failure to the Rev. Mr. Seys, and Mr. W. returned to Monrovia.

THE END.

D. Appleton & Company's Publications.

GRACE AGUILAR'S WORKS.

I.

HOME SCENES AND HEART STUDIES.

One vol. 12mo. Paper cover, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents.

"With this volume, which completes the series in which the delineation of the character of
woman has been the chief design, the public now have the Works of Grace Aguilar, the intrinsic
interest and value of which have won for them an enviable reputation. This last of the series
consists of a variety of tales and sketches well calculated to awaken sentiments of purse affection,
and inspire the heart with nobler and holier sensibilities, by its impressive illustrations
of the delights of Home."--Tribune.

"Her books all bear the impress of genius, consecrated to the noblest purposes. They may be
put into the hands of all classes, without the least hesitation; and no better service could
be rendered to the age, than to inspire it with a love for these productions. We recommend
this series of books to our readers, and especially to our female readers. Let them get and
read the writings of this champion of their sex."--Observer.

II.

THE MOTHER'S RECOMPENSE.

12mo. Paper, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents.

"It is a fragrant offering to the cause of domestic virtue and happiness."--Albany Atlas.

"In this domestic circle, and by all our fair readers, this excellent story will meet with
a cordial welcome."--Home Journal.

III.

WOMAN'S FRIENDSHIP.

A Story of Domestic Life. 12mo. Cloth, 75 cents; paper, 50 cents.

"This work should find a welcome in every family circle, where it is so well calculated to
do good."--Commercial Advertiser.

"The style of this production closely resembles that of Miss Edgeworth. It is one of those
vivid pictures of every day life that never fails to please."--N. O. True Delta.

IV.

THE VALE OF CEDARS; OR, THE MARTYR.

A Story of Spain in the Fifteenth Century. 12mo. Paper, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents.

"The grace and vigor of the style, the masterly manner in which the details of the story are
managed, and its thrilling interest, render the book one of the most absorbing that we have
read for some time."--Newark Daily Advertiser.

V.

THE WOMEN OF ISRAEL.

Two vols. 12mo. Paper, $1; cloth, $1.50.

"By no writer have the characters of the celebrated Women of Israel been so correctly appreciated,
or eloquently delineated. Those high attainments of piety, those graces of spirit, which have
placed them in the rank of examples for all subsequent generations, are spread before us with
a geniality of spirit and a beauty of style which will secure the warmest admiration; at the
same time their weaknesses and errors are not overlooked or excused."--Courier and Enquirer.

VI.

THE DAYS OF BRUCE.

A Story from Scottish History. 2 vols. 16mo. Paper, $1; cloth, $1.60

"This truly delightful work takes a higher position than that of a novel. It is full of sound
instruction, close and logical reasoning, and is fill with practical lessons of every day character,
which renders it desirable book for the young."--Albany Register.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dumas's last and best Book.

D. APPLETON & COMPANY,

HAVE JUST READY THE FIFTH THOUSAND OF

THE FORESTERS.

BY ALEX. DUMAS.

TRANSLATED FROM THE AUTHOR'S ORIGINAL MSS.

1 neat vol. 12mo. in paper, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents.

CONTENTS.--To my Daughter.--The New House on the Road to Soissons.--Mathieu Goguelue.--A Bird
of Evil Omen.--Catherine Blum.--The Parisian.--Jealousy.--Father and Mother.--The Return.--Mademoiselle
Euphrosine Raisin.--Love's Young Dream.--The Abbé Gregoire.--Father and Son.--The Village Fête.--A
Snake in the Grass.--Temptation and Crime.--The Ranger's Home.--Apprehension.--The Book of
the Innocent.--Mathieu's Trial.

=Notices of the Press.=

"A lively story of love, jealousy, and intrigue."--N. Y. Com. Advertiser.

"Another proof of Dumas's unrivalled talent."--Middletown Sentinel.

"The tale is a simple one, but exciting and interesting. The scene is laid in Villers-Cotterêts
in France. The reputation of the author is so firmly established, that in our stating that
the translation is a faithful one, our readers who are novel readers will have heard sufficient."--Phila.
Register.

"A capital story. The reader will find the interest increase to the end."--Phila. Gaz.

"The present volume fully sustains the high reputation of its author; it shows a very high
order of genius. The translation is such perfectly good English, that we easily forget that
we are not reading the work in the language in which it was originally written."--Albany Argus.

"A short, but stirring romance."--Boston Atlas.

"This work of Dumas's is an interesting one. The plot is well laid, and the incidents hurry
on, one after another, so rapidly that the interest is kept up to the close."--Hartford Courant.

"It is a capital story, and an unmistakable Dumas's work. To say this, is to bestow upon it
sufficient praise."--Troy Times.

"This new story of Dumas will afford a delightful resource for a leisure hour."--The Bizarre.

"This very entertaining novel is indubitably one of Dumas's best efforts; it cannot fail to
become widely popular."--N. Y. Courier.

"A pleasing, romantic love story, written with the author's usual vigor."--Newark Adv.

"A quiet domestic tale that must charm all readers."--Syracuse Daily.

"This is a lively story of love, jealously and intrigue, in a French village."--Phila. Daily Times.

"The fame of the author will alone secure a wide circulation for this book. He is one of the
best novel writers living. 'The Foresters' fully sustains his great reputation."--Troy Daily Times.

"This exceedingly entertaining novel is from the pen of one of the most eminent and celebrated
of Modern French novelists--Alexander Dumas."--Binghampton Republican.

"This production of the celebrated author, is written in the same masterly style for which
all his works are noted."--Hartford Times.

"The Foresters, as a work by itself, is one of many charms. That the book will be eagerly sought
after, there can be no doubt. That every reader will admire it is none the less certain."--Buffalo
Morning Express.

"It will be found an interesting story."--Arthur's Home Gazette.

"The plot is extremely pleasing, and the book must meet with a ready and extensive sale."--Syracuse
Daily.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. APPLETON & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.

A Choice New England Tale.

FARMINGDALE,

A TALE

BY CAROLINE THOMAS.

Two volumes, 12mo., paper covers, 75 cents, or 2 volumes in 1, cloth, $1.

"It is a story of New England life, skilfully told, full of tender interest, healthy in its
sentiments and remarkably graphic in its sketches of character. 'Aunt Betsy' is drawn to the
life."--Home Gazette.

"Farmingdale is the best novel of the season."--Eve. Post.

"It will compare favorably with the 'Lamplighter,' by Miss Cummings, and the 'Wide, Wide World,'
by Miss Warner, and in interest it is quite equal to either."--Boston Transcript.

"'Farmingdale,' the work to which we allude, in every page and paragraph, is redolent of its
native sky. It is a tale of New England domestic life, in its incidents and manners so true
to nature and so free from exaggeration, and in its impulses and motives throughout so throbbing
with the real American heart, that we shall not be surprised to hear of as many New England
villages claiming to be the scene of its story, as were the cities of Greece that claimed to
be the birth place of Homer."--Philadelphia Courier.

"The story abounds in scenes of absorbing interest. The narration is every where delightfully
clear and straightforward, flowing forth towards its conclusion, like a gentle and limpid stream,
between graceful hillsides and verdant meadows."--Home Journal.

"This is a story of country life, written by a hand whose guiding power was a living soul.
The pictures of life are speaking and effective. The story is interestingly told and its high
moral aim well sustained."--Syracuse Chronicle.

"'Farmingdale,' while it has many points in common with some recent works of fiction, is yet
highly original. The author has had the boldness to attempt a novel, the main interest of which
does not hinge either upon love or matrimony, nor upon complicated and entangled machinery,
but upon a simple and apparently artless narrative of a friendless girl."--Philadelphia Eve. Mail.

"The author studiously avoids all forced and unnatural incidents, and the equally fashionable
affectation of extravagant language. Her style and diction are remarkable for their purity
and ease. In the conception and delineation of character she has shown herself possessed of
the true creative power."--Com. Adv.

"A simple yet beautiful story, told in a simple and beautiful manner. The object is to show
the devoted affection of a sister to a young brother, and the sacrifices which she made for
him from childhood. There is touching simplicity in the character of this interesting female
that will please all readers, and benefit many of her sex."--Hartford Courant.

"The tale is prettily written, and breathes throughout an excellent moral tone."--Boston Daily
Journal.

"We have read this book; it is lively, spirited, and in some parts pathetic. Its sketches of
life seem to us at once graceful and vivid."--Albany Argus.

"The book is well written, in a simple, unpretending style, and the dialogue is natural and
easy. It is destined to great popularity among all classes of readers. Parents who object placing
'love tales' in the hands of their children, may purchase this volume without fear. The oldest
and the youngest will become interested in its fascinating pages, and close it with the impression
that it is a good book, and deserving of the greatest popularity."--Worcester Palladium.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. Appleton & Company's Publications.

Choice New English Works of Fiction.

I.

THE HEIR OF REDCLYFFE.

A TALE. 2 vols. 12mo. Paper, $1.00; cloth, $1.50.

"A novel of really high merit. The characters are most skilfully drawn out in the course of
the story. The death of Guy is one of the most touching things we ever read. * * * The work
is one of absorbing interest, and what is still better, the moral taught in its pages is eminently
healthy and elevating. We commend the book most cordially."--Com. Adv.

"The whole tone and feeling of this book is good and true. The reader does not require to be
told that the author is religious; the right principles, the high sense of duty and honor,
softened by the influence of a reverent faith, can be explained on no other hypothesis. It
is eminently a book to send the reader away from the perusal better and wiser for the lessons
hidden under its deeply interesting narrative."--London Guardian.

"A well written, spirited and interesting work. It is full of character, sparkling with conversation
and picturesque with paintings of nature. The plot is well conceived and handsomely wrought
out. There is a freshness of feeling and tone of healthy sentiment about such novels, that
recommend them to public favor."--Albany Spectator.

II.

LIGHT AND SHADE;

OR, THE YOUNG ARTIST

A TALE.

"It is a beautiful and ably written story."--Churchman.

"The story is well written, and will be read with much pleasure as well as profit."--Lansingburgh
Gazette.

"A novel with a deep religious tone, bearing and aim--a most attractive style."--Springfield
Republican.

"We recommend her books to the young, as among those from which they have nothing to fear."--New
Haven Courier.

"A very well told tale, mingling the grave and gay, the tender and severe, in fair proportions.
It displays a genius and skill in the writer of no ordinary measure."--Trib.

III.

THE DEAN'S DAUGHTER;

Or, THE DAYS WE LIVE IN.

By Mrs. GORE.

"The 'Dean's Daughter' will doubtless be one of the most successful books of the season. It
abounds in all those beauties which have hitherto distinguished Mrs. Gore's novels. The management
of the incidents of the story is as clever, the style is as brilliant, the satire as keen,
and the conversation as flowing, as in the best of her works."--Daily News.

"It will be read with pleasure by thousands."--Herald.

"Mrs. Gore is perhaps the wittiest of modern novelists. Of all the ladies who in later times
have taken in hand the weapon of satire, her blade is certainly the most trenchant. A vapid
lord or a purse-proud citizen, a money-hunting woman of fashion or a toad-eater, a humbug in
short, male or female, and of whatsoever cast or quality he may be, will find his pretensions
well castigated in some one or other of her brilliant pages; while scattered about in many
places are passages and scenes of infinite tenderness showing that our authoress is not insensible
to the gentler qualities of our nature and is mistress of pathos in no common degree."--Examiner.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. Appleton & Company's Publications.

"A WORK WHICH BEARS THE IMPRESS OF GENIUS."

KATHARINE ASHTON.

By the author of "Amy Herbert," "Gertrude," &c.

2 vols. 12mo. Paper covers, $1; cloth, $1.50.

=Opinions of the Press.=

We know not where we will find purer morals, or more valuable "life-philosophy," than in the
pages of Miss Sewell.--Savannah Georgian.

The style and character of Miss Sewell's writings are too well-known to the reading public
to need commendation. The present volume will only add to her reputation as an authoress.--Albany
Transcript.

This novel is admirably calculated to inculcate refined moral and religious sentiments.--Boston
Herald.

The interest of the story is well sustained throughout, and it is altogether one of the pleasantest
books of the season.--Syracuse Standard.

Those who have read the former works of this writer, will welcome the appearance of this; it
is equal to the best of her preceding novels.--Savannah Republican.

Noble, beautiful, selfish, hard, and ugly characters appear in it, and each is so drawn as
to be felt and estimated as it deserves.--Commonwealth.

A re-publication of a good English novel. It teaches self-control, charity, and a true estimation
of life, by the interesting history of a young girl.--Hartford Courant.

Katharine Ashton will enhance the reputation already attained, the story and the moral being
equally commendable.--Buffalo Courier.

Like all its predecessors, Katharine Ashton bears the impress of genius, consecrated to the
noblest purposes, and should find a welcome in every family circle.--Banner of the Cross.

No one can be injured by books like this; a great many must be benefited. Few authors have
sent so many faultless writings to the press as she has done.--Worcester Palladium.

The self-denial of the Christian life, in its application to common scenes and circumstances,
is happily illustrated in the example of Katharine Ashton, in which there is much to admire
and imitate.--Southern Churchman.

Her present work is an interesting tale of English country life, is written with her usual
ability, and is quite free from any offensive parade of her own theological tenets.--Boston
Traveller.

The field in which Miss Sewell labors, seems to be exhaustless, and to yield always a beautiful
and a valuable harvest.--Troy Daily Budget.

D. APPLETON & COMPANY

Have recently published the following interesting works by the same author.

THE EXPERIENCE OF LIFE.

THE EARL'S DAUGHTER.

GERTRUDE: a Tale. 1 vol. 12mo. Paper, 50 cts.; cloth, 75 cts.

AMY HERBERT: A Tale.

READING FOR A MONTH. 12mo. cloth, 75 cents.

A JOURNAL KEPT DURING A SUMMER TOUR. 1 vol. cloth, $1.00.

WALTER LORIMER AND OTHER TALES. Cloth, 75 cents.

THE CHILD'S FIRST HISTORY OF ROME. 50 cents.

THE CHILD'S FIRST HISTORY OF GREECE. 63 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. APPLETON & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.

MRS. COWDEN CLARKE'S NEW ENGLISH NOVEL.

The Iron Cousin, or Mutual Influence.

BY MARY COWDEN CLARKE,

Author of "THE GIRLHOOD OF SHAKESPEARE'S HEROINES;" the "COMPLETE CONCORDANCE TO SHAKESPEARE," &c.

One handsomely printed volume, large 12mo. over 500 pages. Price $1.25--cloth.

"Mrs. Clarke has given us one of the most delightful novels we have read for many a day, and
one which is destined, we doubt not, to be much longer lived than the majority of the books
of its class. Its chief beauties are a certain freshness in the style in which the incidents
are presented to us--a healthful tone pervading it--a completeness in most of the characters--and
a truthful power in the descriptions."--London Times.

"We have found the volume deeply interesting--its characters are well drawn, while its tone
and sentiments are well calculated to exert a purifying and ennobling influence upon all who
read it."--Savannah Republican.

"The scene of the book is village life amongst the upper class, with village episodes, which
seem to have been sketched from the life--there is a primitive simplicity and greatness of
heart about some of the characters which keep up the sympathy and interest to the end."--London
Globe.

"The reader cannot fail of being both charmed and instructed by the book, and of hoping that
a pen so able will not lie idle."--Pennsylvanian.

"We fearlessly recommend it as a work of more than ordinary merit."--Binghampton Daily Republic.

"The great moral lesson indicated by the title-page of this book runs, as a golden thread,
through every part of it, while the reader is constantly kept in contact with the workings
of an inventive and brilliant mind."--Albany Argus.

"We have read this fascinating story with a good deal of interest. Human nature is well and
faithfully portrayed, and we see the counterpart of our story in character and disposition,
in every village and district. The book cannot fail of popular reception."--Albany and Rochester
Courier.

"A work of deep and powerful influence."--Herald.

"Mrs. Cowden Clarke, with the delicacy and artistic taste of refine womanhood, has in this
work shown great versatility of talent."

"The story is too deeply interesting to allow the reader to lay it down till he has read it
to the end."

"The work is skilful in plan, graphic in style, diversified in incident and true to nature."

"The tale is charmingly imagined. The incidents never exceed probability but seem perfectly
natural. In the style there is much quaintness, in the sentiment much tenderness."

"It is a spirited, charming story, full of adventure, friendship and love, with characters
nicely drawn and carefully discriminated. The clear style and spirit with which the story is
presented and the characters developed, will attract a large constituency to the perusal."

"Mrs. Cowden Clarke's story has one of the highest qualities of fiction--it is no flickering
shadow, but seems of real growth. It is full of lively truth, and show nice perception of the
early elements of character with which we become acquainted in its wholeness, and in the ripeness
of years. The incident is well woven; the color is blood-warm; and there is the presence of
a sweet grace and gentle power."

       *       *       *       *       *

WORKS BY MISS SEWELL,

PUBLISHED BY D. APPLETON & COMPANY.

I.

THE EXPERIENCE OF LIFE: A TALE. (Just ready.)

II.

A JOURNAL KEPT DURING A SUMMER TOUR

FOR THE CHILDREN OF A VILLAGE SCHOOL

Three parts in one vol. 12mo. Cloth, $1.

"A very simple and sweetly written work. There is the same natural and graceful detail that
mark Miss Sewell's novels. It will find a great many admirers among the young people, who will
be almost as happy as the fair traveller in wandering over the ground on which she has looked
with a discriminating eye, and received, and communicated suggestions which, from her enlarged
sphere of observation, can hardly fail to enlarge the heart as well as to enrich the intellect."--Commercial
Advertiser.

III.

THE EARL'S DAUGHTER: A TALE.

Edited by the Rev. WM.

IV.

MARGARET PERCIVAL: A TALE.

Edited by the Rev. WM. SEWELL, B. A. Two vols. 12mo. Paper cover, $1; cloth, $1.50.

V.

GERTRUDE: A TALE.

Edited by the Rev. WM.

VI.

AMY HERBERT: A TALE.

Edited by the Rev. WM. SEWELL, B. A. One vol.

VII.

LANETON PARSONAGE: A TALE.

Edited by the Rev. WM. SEWELL, B. A. Three vols. 12mo. Cloth, $2.25; paper cover, $1.50.

VIII.

WALTER LORIMER, AND OTHER TALES.

12mo. Cloth, 75 cents.

IX.

THE CHILD'S FIRST HISTORY OF ROME.

One vol. 16mo. 50 cents.

X.

THE CHILD'S FIRST HISTORY OF GREECE.

One vol. 16mo.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. APPLETON & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.

A BOOK FOR EVERY CHRISTIAN FAMILY.

The Hearth-Stone;

THOUGHTS UPON HOME LIFE IN OUR CITIES

BY

SAMUEL OSGOOD,

Author of "Studies in Christian Biography," "God with Men," etc.

1 vol. 12mo. cloth. Price $1.

CRITICISMS OF THE PRESS.

"This is a volume of eloquent and impressive essays on the domestic relations and the religious
duties of the household. Mr. Osgood writes on those interesting themes in the most charming
and animated style, winning the reader's judgment rather than coercing it to the author's conclusions.
The predominant sentiments in the book are purity, sincerity, and love. A more delightful volume
has rarely been published, and we trust it will have a wide circulation, for its influence
must be salutary upon both old and young."--Commercial Advertiser.

"The 'Hearth-Stone' is the symbol of all those delightful truths which Mr. Osgood here connects
with it. In a free and graceful style, varying form deep solemnity to the most genial and lively
tone, as befits his range of subjects, he gives attention to wise thoughts on holy things,
and homely truths. His volume will find many warm hearts to which it will address itself."--Christian
Examiner.

"The author of his volume passes through a large circle of subjects, all of them connected
with domestic life as it exists in large towns. The ties of relationship--the female character
as developed in the true province and empire of woman, domestic life, the education of children,
and the training them to habits of reverence--the treatment of those of our households whose
lot in life is humbler than ours--the cultivation of a contented mind--the habitual practice
of devotion--these and various kindred topics furnish ample matter for touching reflections
and wholesome counsels. The spirit of the book is fervently religious, and though no special
pains are taken to avoid topics on which religious men differ, it 'breathes a kindly spirit
above the reach of sect or party.' The author is now numbered among the popular preachers of
the metropolis, and those who have listened to his spoken, will not be disappointed with his
written, eloquence."--Evening Post.

"A household book, treating of the domestic relations, the deportment, affections, and duties
which belong to the well ordered Christian family. Manly advice and good sense are exhibited
in an earnest and affectionate tone, and not without tenderness and truthful sentiment; while
withal a Christian view is taken of the serious responsibility which attends the performance
of the duties of husband and wife, parent and child, sister and brother. We are particularly
pleased with the real practical wisdom, combined with the knowledge of human nature, which
renders this volume deserving of careful study by those who desire to make their homes happy."--New
York Churchman.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. Appleton & Company's Publications.

JULIA KAVANAGH'S WORKS.

I.

DAISY BURNS.

12mo. Two parts. Paper Cover, 75 cents; or in 1 Vol. cloth, $1.

"The clear conception, the forcible delineation, the style, at once elegant and powerful, of
Miss Kavanagh's former works, are exhibited in this, as well as deep thought and sound moral
reflection. Every thing presented to the reader, whether thought or image, is elaborated with
the finish of a Flemish painting without its grossness; the persons are nicely conceived and
consistently sustained, and the principal narrative is relieved by very truthful pictures of
every day life and character."--London Spectator.

"A very delightful tale. * * * The charm of the story is in its naturalness. It is perfectly
quiet, domestic, and truthful. In the calm force and homely realities of its scenes it reminds
us of Miss Austen."--Times.

"All her books are written with talent and a woman's true feeling."--U. S. Gazette.

"It is full of deep feeling, tenderness, pure feminine sentiment and moral truth."--Albany
Knickerbocker.

II.

NATHALIE.

Two Parts. 12mo. Paper Covers, 75 cents; cloth, $1.

"A work of extraordinary merit, with a far deeper design than merely to arouse, it attempts
to solve some of the subtle problems of human nature. Some of the wisest lessons in life are
taught in the work, while the artistic skill with which the narrative is managed imparts a
vivid interest. The author might be, with a stronger infusion of the poetic element, another
Joanna Baillie; and no one will read the work without a high estimate of her dramatic powers
and her deep insight."--Evangelist.

III.

MADELEINE.

One Volume. 12mo. Paper Covers, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents.

"A charming story, gracefully told. Its intrinsic interest as a narrative, and the tenderness
of its pathos will win for it many readers."--Boston Traveller.

"The character of Madeleine, the heroine, is beautifully drawn and powerfully portrayed. Miss
Kavanagh is most known by her excellent novel of 'Nathalie.' This book possesses no less interest,
though of a very different kind."--Courier and Enq.

IV.

WOMEN OF CHRISTIANITY.

One Volume. 12mo. Cloth, 75 cents.

"The design and spirit of this volume are alike admirable. Miss Kavanagh divides her work into
four periods; the first relates the deeds of holy women under the Roman empire; the second
tells us of the fruits of faith in the middle ages; the third is devoted to the women of the
seventeenth century; and the fourth to those of the eighteenth and present centuries. We have
read many of these records of other days, as told by Miss Kavanagh, and we are sure that the
influence upon every Christian-minded person cannot but be for good, if he will meditate upon
what our holy religion is every day doing. The volume is well worthy a place in every Christian
family."--Ban. of the Cross.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. APPLETON & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.

THE GREAT KENTUCKY NOVEL.

D. APPLETON & COMPANY

HAVE JUST PUBLISHED

Tempest and Sunshine; or, Life in Kentucky.

BY MRS. MARY J. HOLMES.

One Volume, 12mo. Paper covers, 75 cents; cloth, $1.

These are the most striking and original sketches of American character in the South-western
States which have ever been published. The character of Tempest is drawn with all that spirit
and energy which characterize the high toned female spirit of the South, while Sunshine possesses
the loveliness and gentleness of the sweetest of her sex. The Planter is sketched to the life,
and in his strongly marked, passionate, and generous nature, the reader will recognize one
of the truest sons of the south-west.

=OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.=

"The book is well written, and its fame will be more than ephemeral."--Buffalo Express.

"The story is interesting and finely developed."--Daily Times.

"A lively romance of western life--the style of the writer is smart, intelligent, and winning,
and her story is told with spirit and skill."--U. S. Gazette.

"An excellent work, and its sale must be extensive."--Stamford Advocate.

"The whole is relieved by a generous introduction of incident as well as by an amplitude of
love and mystery."--Express.

"A delightful, well written book, portraying western life to the letter. The book abounds in
an easy humor, with touching sentences of tenderness and pathos scattered through it, and from
first to last keeps up a humane interest that very many authors strive in vain to achieve.
'Tempest' and 'Sunshine,' two sisters, are an exemplification of the good that to some comes
by nature, and to others is found only through trials, temptation, and tribulation. Mr. Middleton,
the father of 'Tempest' and 'Sunshine' is the very soul and spirit of 'Old Kaintuck,' abridged
into one man. The book is worth reading. There is a healthy tone of morality pervading it that
will make it a suitable work to be placed in the hands of our daughters and sisters."--New
York Day Book.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. APPLETON & COMPANY'S PUBLICATIONS.

The Great Work on Russia.

Fifth Edition now ready.

RUSSIA AS IT IS.

BY COUNT A. DE GUROWSKI.

One neat volume 12mo., pp. 328, well printed. Price $1, cloth.

CONTENTS.--Preface.--Introduction.--Czarism: its historical origin.--The Czar Nicholas.--The
Organization of the Government.--The Army and Navy.--The Nobility.--The Clergy.--The Bourgeoisie.--The
Cossacks.--The Real People, the Peasantry.--The Rights of Aliens and Strangers.--The Commoner.--Emancipation.--Manifest
Destiny.--Appendix.--The Amazons.--The Fourteen Classes of the Russian Public Service; or,
the Tschins.--The Political Testament of Peter the Great.--Extract from an Old Chronicle.

=Notices of the Press.=

"The author takes no superficial, empirical view of his subject, but collecting a rich variety
of facts, brings the lights of a profound philosophy to their explanation. His work, indeed,
neglects no essential detail--it is minute and accurate in its statistics--it abounds in lively
pictures of society, manners and character. * * * Whoever wishes to obtain an accurate notion
of the internal condition of Russia, the nature and extent of her resources, and the practical
influence of her institutions, will here find better materials for his purpose than in any
single volume now extant."--N. Y. Tribune.

"This is a powerfully-written book, and will prove of vast service to every one who desires
to comprehend the real nature and bearings of the great contest in which Russia is now engaged."--N.
Y. Courier.

"It is original in its conclusions; it is striking in its revelations. Numerous as are the
volumes that have been written about Russia, we really hitherto have known little of that immense
territory--of that numerous people. Count Gurowski's work sheds a light which at this time
is most welcome and satisfactory."--N. Y. Times.

"The book is well written, and as might be expected in a work by a writer so unusually conversant
with all sides of Russian affairs, it contains so much important information respecting the
Russian people, their government and religion."--Com. Advertiser.

"This is a valuable work, explaining in a very satisfactory manner the internal conditions
of the Russian people, and the construction of their political society. The institutions of
Russia are presented as they exist in reality, and as they are determined by existing and obligatory
laws."--N. Y. Herald.

"A hasty glance over this handsome volume has satisfied us that it is one worthy of general
perusal. * * * It is full of valuable historical information, with very interesting accounts
of the various classes among the Russian people, their condition and aspirations."--N. Y. Sun.

"This is a volume that can hardly fail to attract very general attention, and command a wide
sale in view of the present juncture of European affairs, and the prominent part therein which
Russia is to play."--Utica Gazette.

"A timely book. It will be found all that it professes to be, though some may be startled at
some of its conclusions."--Boston Atlas.

"This is one of the best of all the books caused by the present excitement in relation to Russia.
It is a very able publication--one that will do much to destroy the general belief in the infallibility
of Russia. The writer shows himself master of his subject, and treats of the internal condition
of Russia, her institutions and customs, society, laws, &c., in an enlightened and scholarly
manner."--City Item.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. Appleton & Company's Publications.

MARIA J. McINTOSH'S WORKS.

I.

=THE LOFTY AND THE LOWLY,=

OR, GOOD IN ALL AND NONE ALL GOOD.

Two vols. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50; paper covers, $1.

"Life, in its varied relations at the North and the South, is the theme of this work. In its
graphic delineations of character, truthfulness of representation, and stirring realities of
life, it will hardly give place to 'Uncle Tom's Cabin.' The authoress is well-known to the
public by her many charming works of fiction, and her life has been passed at the North of
South. The nobleness of her sentiments, her elevated and candid views, her genuine feelings
of humanity, and the elegance and eloquence of her pen, are brought out in these pages with
their full brilliancy and effect."

II.

=EVENINGS AT DONALDSON MANOR;=

OR, THE CHRISTMAS GUEST.

One vol. 12mo. Cloth, 75 cents; paper covers, 50 cents; or, a finer Edition, Illustrated with
Ten Steel Engravings, 8vo., cloth, $2; gilt edges, $2.50; morocco, $3.50.

III.

=WOMAN IN AMERICA;=

HER WORK AND HER REWARD.

One vol. 12mo. Paper covers, 50 cents; cloth, 63 cents.

IV.

=CHARMS AND COUNTER-CHARMS.=

One vol. 12mo. Cloth, $1; or, in Two Parts, paper, 75 cents.

V.

=TWO LIVES; OR TO SEEM AND TO BE.=

One vol.

Minor typographic errors (mismatched quotes, omitted or transposed characters, etc.) have been
corrected without note. Hyphenation, capitalisation and spelling of proper names, and use of
accents has been made consistent without note. One exception is Canot's forename, which appears
as Téodor, Téodore and Theodore throughout the text. This has been left as printed, as has
the author's use of some archaic and variable spellings.

Incorrect page number references in the table of contents were amended as follows: 119 to 118;
127 to 126; 215 to 214; 394 to 349.

The footnotes in the original book are sometimes numbered, sometimes lettered. This convention
has been retained in this version.

The frontispiece illustration has been moved to follow the title page.

The use of oe ligatures has not been retained in this version.