THE FREETHINKER'S TEXT-BOOK.

PART II.

CHRISTIANITY:

ITS EVIDENCES. ITS ORIGIN.

ITS MORALITY. ITS HISTORY.

BY ANNIE BESANT.

SECTION I.--ITS EVIDENCES UNRELIABLE.

The origin of all religions, and the ignorance which is the root of the God-idea, having been
dealt with in Part I. of this Text-Book, it now becomes our duty to investigate the evidences
of the origin and of the growth of Christianity, to examine its morality and its dogmas, to
study the history of its supposed founder, to trace out its symbols and its ceremonies; in
fine, to show cause for its utter rejection by the Freethinker. The foundation stone of Christianity,
laid in Paradise by the Creation and Fall of Man 6,000 years ago, has already been destroyed
in the first section of this work; and we may at once, therefore, proceed to Christianity itself.
The history of the origin of the creed is naturally the first point to deal with, and this
may be divided into two parts: 1. The evidences afforded by profane history as to its origin
and early growth. 2. Its story as told by itself in its own documents.

The most remarkable thing in the evidences afforded by profane history is their extreme paucity;
the very existence of Jesus cannot be proved from contemporary documents. A child whose birth
is heralded by a star which guides foreign sages to Judæa; a massacre of all the infants of
a town within the Roman Empire by command of a subject king; a teacher who heals the leper,
the blind, the deaf, the dumb, the lame, and who raises the mouldering corpse; a King of the
Jews entering Jerusalem in triumphal procession, without opposition from the Roman legions
of Cæsar; an accused ringleader of sedition arrested by his own countrymen, and handed over
to the imperial governor; a rebel adjudged to death by Roman law; a three hours' darkness over
all the land; an earthquake breaking open graves and rending the temple veil; a number of ghosts
wandering about Jerusalem; a crucified corpse rising again to life, and appearing to a crowd
of above 500 people; a man risen from the dead ascending bodily into heaven without any concealment,
and in the broad daylight, from a mountain near Jerusalem; all these marvellous events took
place, we are told, and yet they have left no ripple on the current of contemporary history.
There is, however, no lack of such history, and an exhaustive account of the country and age
in which the hero of the story lived is given by one of his own nation--a most painstaking
and laborious historian. A distinct chapter of Pliny is designed for eclipses of an extraordinary
nature and unusual duration; but he contents himself with describing the singular defect of
light which followed the murder of Cæsar, when, during the greatest part of the year, the orb
of the sun appeared pale and without splendour. This season of obscurity, which cannot surely
be compared with the preternatural darkness of the Passion, had been already celebrated by
most of the poets and historians of that memorable age" (Gibbon's "Decline and Fall," vol.
ii., pp. 191, 192. Ed. 1821).

If Pagan historians are thus curiously silent, what deduction shall we draw from the similar
silence of the great Jewish annalist? Is it credible that Josephus should thus have ignored
Jesus Christ, if one tithe of the marvels related in the Gospels really took place? So damning
to the story of Christianity has this difficulty been felt, that a passage has been inserted
in Josephus (born A.D. 37, died about A.D. 100) relating to Jesus Christ, which runs as follows:
"Now, there was about this time Jesus, a wise man, if it be lawful to call him a man, for he
was a doer of wonderful works--a teacher of such men as receive the truth with pleasure. He
drew over to him both many of the Jews, and many of the Gentiles. He was [the] Christ; and
when Pilate, at the suggestion of the principal men amongst us, had condemned him to the cross,
those that loved him at the first did not forsake him, for he appeared to them alive again
the third day, as the divine prophets had foretold these and ten thousand other wonderful things
concerning him; and the tribe of Christians, so named from him, are not extinct at this day"
("Antiquities of the Jews," book xviii., ch. iii., sect. 3). The passage itself proves its
own forgery: Christ drew over scarcely any Gentiles, if the Gospel story be true, as he himself
said: "I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel" (Matthew xv. 24). A Jew
would not believe that a doer of wonderful works must necessarily be more than man, since their
own prophets were said to have performed miracles. If Josephus believed Jesus to be Christ,
he would assuredly have become a Christian; while, if he believed him to be God, he would have
drawn full attention to so unique a fact as the incarnation of the Deity. Finally, the concluding
remark that the Christians were "not extinct" scarcely coincides with the idea that Josephus,
at Rome, must have been cognisant of their increasing numbers, and of their persecution by
Nero. It is, however, scarcely pretended now-a-days, by any scholar of note, that the passage
is authentic. Sections 2 and 4 were manifestly written one after the other. About the same
time another sad calamity put the Jews into disorder." The forged passage breaks the continuity
of the history. The oldest MSS. do not contain this section. It is first quoted by Eusebius,
who probably himself forged it; and its authenticity is given up by Lardner, Gibbon, Bishop
Warburton, and many others. Lardner well summarises the arguments against its authenticity:--

"I do not perceive that we at all want the suspected testimony to Jesus, which was never quoted
by any of our Christian ancestors before Eusebius.

"Nor do I recollect that Josephus has any where mentioned the name or word Christ, in any of
his works; except the testimony above mentioned, and the passage concerning James, the Lord's
brother.

"It interrupts the narrative.

"The language is quite Christian.

"It is not quoted by Chrysostom, though he often refers to Josephus, and could not have omitted
quoting it, had it been then in the text.

"It is not quoted by Photius, though he has three articles concerning Josephus.

"Neither Justin in his dialogue with Trypho the Jew, nor Clemens Alexandrinus, who made so
many extracts from Christian authors, nor Origen against Celsus, have ever mentioned this testimony.

"But, on the contrary, in chapter xxxv. of the first book of that work, Origen openly affirms,
that Josephus, who had mentioned John the Baptist, did not acknowledge Christ" (Answer to Dr.
Chandler, as quoted in Taylor's "Diegesis," pp. 368, 369. Ed. 1844).

Keim thinks that the remarks of Origen caused the forgery; after criticising the passage he
winds up: "For all these reasons, the passage cannot be maintained; it has first appeared in
this form in the Catholic Church of the Jews and Gentiles, and under the dominion of the Fourth
Gospel, and hardly before the third century, probably before Eusebius, and after Origen, whose
bitter criticisms of Josephus may have given cause for it" ("Jesus of Nazara," p. 25, English
edition, 1873).

"Those who are best acquainted with the character of Josephus, and the style of his writings,
have no hesitation in condemning this passage as a forgery interpolated in the text during
the third century by some pious Christian, who was scandalised that so famous a writer as Josephus
should have taken no notice of the Gospels, or of Christ their subject. But the zeal of the
interpolator has outrun his discretion, for we might as well expect to gather grapes from thorns,
or figs from thistles, as to find this notice of Christ among the Judaising writings of Josephus.
It is well known that this author was a zealous Jew, devoted to the laws of Moses and the traditions
of his countrymen. How then could he have written that Jesus was the Christ? Such an admission
would have proved him to be a Christian himself, in which case the passage under consideration,
too long for a Jew, would have been far too short for a believer in the new religion, and thus
the passage stands forth, like an ill-set jewel, contrasting most inharmoniously with everything
around it. If it had been genuine, we might be sure that Justin Martyr, Tertullian, and Chrysostom
would have quoted it in their controversies with the Jews, and that Origen or Photius would
have mentioned it. ("Christian Records," by Rev. Dr. Giles, p. 30. Ed. 1854).

On the other side the student should consult Hartwell Horne's "Introduction." Ed. 1825, vol.
i., p. 307-11. Renan observes that the passage--in the authenticity of which he believes--is
"in the style of Josephus," but adds that "it has been retouched by a Christian hand." The
two statements seem scarcely consistent, as such "retouching" would surely alter "the style"
("Vie de Jésus," Introduction, p. 10. Ed. 1863).

Paley argues that when the multitude of Christians living in the time of Josephus is considered,
it cannot "be believed that the religion, and the transaction upon which it was founded, were
too obscure to engage the attention of Josephus, or to obtain a place in his history" ("Evid.
of Christianity," p. 73. Ed. 1845). We answer, it is plain, from the fact that Josephus entirely
ignores both, that the pretended story of Jesus was not widely known among his contemporaries,
and that the early spread of Christianity is much exaggerated. But says Paley: "Be, however,
the fact, or the cause of the omission in Josephus, what it may, no other or different history
on the subject has been given by him or is pretended to have been given" (Ibid, pp. 73, 74).
Our contention being that the supposed occurrences never took place at all, no history of them
is to be looked for in the pages of a writer who was relating only facts. Josephus speaks of
James, "the brother of Jesus, who was called Christ" ("Antiquities," book xx., ch. ix., sect.
1), and this passage shares the fate of the longer one, being likewise rejected because of
being an interpolation. The other supposed reference of Josephus to Jesus is found in his discourse
on Hades, wherein he says that all men "shall be brought before God the Word; for to him hath
the Father committed all judgment; and he, in order to fulfil the will of his Father, shall
come as judge, whom we call Christ" ("Works of Josephus," by Whiston, p. 661). Supposing that
this passage were genuine, it would simply convey the Jewish belief that the Messiah--Christ--the
Anointed, was the appointed judge, as in Dan. vii., 9-14, and more largely in the Book of Enoch.

The silence of Jewish writers of this period is not confined to Josephus, and this silence
tells with tremendous weight against the Christian story. Judge Strange writes: "Josephus knew
nothing of these wonderments, and he wrote up to the year 93, being familiar with all the chief
scenes of the alleged Christianity. Nicolaus of Damascus, who preceded him and lived to the
time of Herod's successor Archelaus, and Justus of Tiberias, who was the contemporary and rival
of Josephus in Galilee, equally knew nothing of the movement. Philo-Judæus, who occupied the
whole period ascribed to Jesus, and engaged himself deeply in figuring out the Logos, had heard
nothing of the being who was realising at Jerusalem the image his fancy was creating" ("Portraiture
and Mission of Jesus," p. 27).

We propose now to go carefully through the alleged testimonies to Christianity, as urged in
Paley's "Evidences of Christianity," following his presentment of the argument step by step,
and offering objections to each point as raised by him.

The next historian who is claimed as a witness to Christianity is Tacitus (born A.D. 54 or
55, died A.D. 134 or 135), who writes, dealing with the reign of Nero, that this Emperor "inflicted
the most cruel punishments upon a set of people, who were holden in abhorrence for their crimes,
and were commonly called Christians. The founder of that name was Christus, who, in the reign
of Tiberius, was punished as a criminal by the procurator, Pontius Pilate. This pernicious
superstition, thus checked for awhile, broke out again; and spread not only over Judæa the
source of this evil, but reached the city also: whither flow from all quarters all things vile
and shameful, and where they find shelter and encouragement. At first, only those were apprehended
who confessed themselves of that sect; afterwards, a vast multitude discovered by them; all
which were condemned, not so much for the crime of burning the city, as for their hatred of
mankind. Their executions were so contrived as to expose them to derision and contempt. Some
were covered over with the skins of wild beasts, and torn to pieces by dogs; some were crucified.
Others, having been daubed over with combustible materials, were set up as lights in the night-time,
and thus burned to death. Nero made use of his own gardens as a theatre on this occasion, and
also exhibited the diversions of the circus, sometimes standing in the crowd as a spectator,
in the habit of a charioteer; at other times driving a chariot himself; till at length these
men, though really criminal, and deserving exemplary punishment, began to be commiserated as
people who were destroyed, not out of regard to the public welfare, but only to gratify the
cruelty of one man" ("Annals," book xv., sect. 44).

This was probably written, if authentic, about A.D. 107.

"It is not quoted by Tertullian, though he had read and largely quotes the works of Tacitus:
and though his argument immediately called for the use of this quotation with so loud a voice,
that his omission of it, if it had really existed, amounts to a violent improbability.

"It has nowhere been stumbled on by the laborious and all-seeking Eusebius, who could by no
possibility have missed of it....

"There is no vestige nor trace of its existence anywhere in the world before the fifteenth century.

"It rests then entirely upon the fidelity of a single individual. And he, having the ability,
the opportunity, and the strongest possible incitement of interest to induce him to introduce
the interpolation.

"The passage itself, though unquestionably the work of a master, and entitled to be pronounced
the chef d'oeuvre of the art, betrays the penchant of that delight in blood, and in descriptions
of bloody horrors, as peculiarly characteristic of the Christian disposition as it was abhorrent
to the mild and gentle mind, and highly cultivated taste of Tacitus.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It is falsified by the 'Apology of Tertullian,' and the far more respectable testimony of
Melito, Bishop of Sardis, who explicitly states that the Christians, up to his time, the third
century, had never been victims of persecution; and that it was in provinces lying beyond the
boundaries of the Roman Empire, and not in Judæa, that Christianity originated.

"Tacitus has, in no other part of his writings, made the least allusion to Christ or Christians.

"The use of this passage as a part of the 'Evidences of the Christian Religion,' is absolutely
modern" ("Diegesis," pp. 374--376).

Judge Strange--writing on another point--gives us an argument against the authenticity of this
passage: "As Josephus made Rome his place of abode from the year 70 to the end of the century,
there inditing his history of all that concerned the Jews, it is apparent that, had there been
a sect flourishing in the city who were proclaiming the risen Jesus as the Messiah in his time,
the circumstance was one this careful and discerning writer could not have failed to notice
and to comment on" ("Portraiture and Mission of Jesus," p. 15). It is, indeed, passing strange
that Josephus, who tells us so much about false Messiahs and their followers, should omit--as
he must have done if this passage of Tacitus be authentic--all reference to this additional
false Messiah, whose followers in the very city where Josephus was living, underwent such terrible
tortures, either during his residence there, or immediately before it. Burning men, used as
torches, adherents of a Jewish Messiah, ought surely to have been unusual enough to have attracted
his attention. We may add to these arguments that, supposing such a passage were really written
by Tacitus, the two lines regarding Christus look much like an interpolation, as the remainder
would run more connectedly if they were omitted. But the whole passage is of more than doubtful
authenticity, being in itself incredible, if the Acts and the Epistles of the New Testament
be true; for this persecution is said to have occurred during the reign of Nero, during which
Paul abode in Rome, teaching in peace, "no man forbidding him" (Acts xxviii. 31); during which,
also, he wrote to the Romans that they need not be afraid of the government if they did right
(Romans xii. 34); clearly, if these passages are true, the account in Tacitus must be false;
and as he himself had no reason for composing such a tale, it must have been forged by Christians
to glorify their creed.

The extreme ease with which this passage might have been inserted in all editions of Tacitus
used in modern times arises from the fact that all such editions are but copies of one single
MS., which was in the possession of one single individual; the solitary owner might make any
interpolations he pleased, and there was no second copy by which his accuracy might be tested.
"The first publication of any part of the 'Annals of Tacitus' was by Johannes de Spire, at
Venice, in the year 1468--his imprint being made from a single MS., in his own power and possession
only, and purporting to have been written in the eighth century.... from this all other MSS.
and printed copies of the works of Tacitus are derived." ("Diegesis," p. 373.)

Suetonius (born about A.D. 65, died in second century) writes: "The Christians, a race of men
of a new and mischievous (or magical) superstition, were punished." In another passage we read
of Claudius, who reigned A.D. 41-54: "He drove the Jews, who, at the suggestion of Chrestus,
were constantly rioting, out of Rome." From this we might infer that there was at that time
a Jewish leader, named Chrestus, living in Rome, and inciting the Jews to rebellion. His followers
would probably take his name, and, expelled from Rome, they would spread this name in all directions.
If the passage in Acts xi. 20 and 26 be of any historical value, it would curiously strengthen
this hypothesis, since the "disciples were called Christians first in Antioch," and the missionaries
to Antioch, who preached "unto the Jews only," came from Cyprus and Cyrene, which would naturally
lie in the way of fugitives from Rome to Asia Minor. They would bring the name Christian with
them, and the date in the Acts synchronises with that in Suetonius. Chrestus would appear to
have left a sect behind him in Rome, bearing his name, the members of which were prosecuted
by the Government, very likely as traitors and rebels. Keim's good opinion of Suetonius is
much degraded by this Chrestus: "In his 'Life of Claudius,' who expelled the Jews from Rome,
he has shown his undoubted inferiority to Tacitus as a historian by treating 'Christ' as a
restless and seditious Jewish agitator, who was still living in the time of Claudius, and,
indeed, in Rome" ("Jesus of Nazara," p. 33).

It is natural that modern Christians should object to a Jewish Chrestus starting up at Rome
simultaneously with their Jewish Christus in Judæa, who, according to Luke's chronology, must
have been crucified about A.D. 43. The coincidence is certainly inconvenient; but if they refuse
the testimony of Suetonius concerning Chrestus, the leader, why should they accept it concerning
the Christians, the followers? Paley, of course, although he quotes Suetonius, omits all reference
at this stage to the unlucky Chrestus; his duty was to present evidences of, not against, Christianity.
Most dishonestly, however, he inserts a reference to it later on (p. 73), where, in a brief
résumé of the evidence, he uses it as a link in his chain: "When Suetonius, an historian contemporary
with Tacitus, relates that, in the time of Claudius, the Jews were making disturbances at Rome,
Christus being their leader." Why does not Paley explain to us how Jesus came to be leading
Jews at Rome during the reign of Claudius, and why he incited them to riot? No such incident
is related in the life of Jesus of Nazareth; and if Suetonius be correct, the credit of the
Gospels is destroyed. To his shame be it said, that Paley here deliberately refers to a passage,
which he has not ventured to quote, simply that he may use the great name of Suetonius to strengthen
his lamentably weak argument, by the pretence that Suetonius mentions Jesus of Nazareth, and
thus makes him a historical character. Few more disgraceful perversions of evidence can be
found, even in the annals of controversy. H. Horne refers to this passage in proof of the existence
of Christ (Introduction, vol. i., page 202); but without offering any explanation of the appearance
of Christ in Rome some years after he ought to have been dead.

Juvenal is next dragged forward by Paley as a witness, because he mentioned the punishment
of some criminals: "I think it sufficiently probable that these [Christian executions] were
the executions to which the poet refers" ("Evidences," p. 29.) Needless to say that there is
not a particle of proof that they were anything of the kind; but when evidence is lacking,
it is necessary to invent it.

Pliny the Younger (born A.D. 61, died A.D. 115) writes to the Emperor Trajan, about A.D. 107,
to ask him how he shall treat the Christians, and as Paley has so grossly misrepresented this
letter, it will be well to reproduce the whole of it. It contains no word of Christians dying
boldly as Paley pretends, nor, indeed, of the punishment of death being inflicted at all. The
word translated "punishment" is supplicium (acc. of supplicium) in the original, and is a term
which, like the French supplice, derived from it, may mean the punishment of death, or any
other heavy penalty. The translation of the letter runs as follows: "C. Pliny to the Emperor
Trajan, Health.--It is customary with me to refer to you, my lord, matters about which I entertain
a doubt. For who is better able either to rule my hesitation, or to instruct my ignorance?
I have never been present at the inquiries about the Christians, and, therefore, cannot say
for what crime, or to what extent, they are usually punished, or what is the nature of the
inquiry about them. Nor have I been free from great doubts whether there should not be a distinction
between ages, or how far those of a tender frame should be treated differently from the robust;
whether those who repent should not be pardoned, so that one who has been a Christian should
not derive advantage from having ceased to be one; whether the name itself of being a Christian
should be punished, or only crime attendant upon the name? In the meantime I have laid down
this rule in dealing with those who were brought before me for being Christians. I asked whether
they were Christians; if they confessed, I asked them a second and a third time, threatening
them with punishment; if they persevered, I ordered them to be led off. For I had no doubt
in my mind that, whatever it might be which they acknowledged, obduracy and inflexible obstinacy,
at all events should be punished. There were others guilty of like folly, whom I set aside
to be sent to Rome, because they were Roman citizens. In the next place, when this crime began,
as usual, gradually to spread, it showed itself in a variety of ways. An indictment was set
forth without any author, containing the names of many who denied that they were Christians
or ever had been; and, when I set the example, they called on the gods, and made offerings
of frankincense and wine to your image, which I, for this purpose, had ordered to be brought
out, together with the images of the gods. Moreover, they cursed Christ; none of which acts
can be extorted from those who are really Christians. I consequently gave orders that they
should be discharged. Again, others, who have been informed against, said that they were Christians,
and afterwards denied it; that they had been so once but had ceased to be so, some three years
ago, some longer than that, some even twenty years before; all of these worshipped your image,
and the statues of the gods; they also cursed Christ. But they asserted that this was the sum
total of their crime or error, whichever it may be called, that they were used to come together
on a stated day before it was light, and to sing in turn, among themselves, a hymn to Christ,
as to a god, and to bind themselves by an oath--not to anything wicked--but that they would
not commit theft, robbery, or adultery, nor break their word, nor deny that anything had been
entrusted to them when called upon to restore it. After this they said that it was their custom
to separate, and again to meet together to take their meals, which were in common and of a
harmless nature; but that they had ceased even to do this since the proclamation which I issued
according to your commands, forbidding such meetings to be held. I therefore deemed it the
more necessary to enquire of two servant maids, who were said to be attendants, what was the
real truth, and to apply the torture. But I found that it was nothing but a bad and excessive
superstition, and I consequently adjourned the inquiry, and consulted you upon the subject.
For it seemed to me to be a matter on which it was desirable to take advice, in consequence
of the number of those who are in danger. For there are many of every age, of every rank, and
even of both sexes, who are invited to incur the danger, and will still be invited. For the
infection of this superstition has spread through not only cities, but also villages and the
country, though it seems possible to check and remedy it. At all events it is evident that
the temples, which had been almost deserted, have begun to be frequented, and the sacred solemnities,
which had been intermitted, are revived, and victims are sold everywhere, though formerly it
was difficult to find a buyer. It is, therefore, easy to believe that a number of persons may
be corrected, if the door of repentance be left open" (Ep. 97).

It is urged by Christian advocates that this letter at least shows how widely Christianity
had spread at this early date; but we shall later have occasion to draw attention to the fact
that the name "Christian" was used before the reputed time of Christ to describe some extensively-spread
sects, and that the worshippers of the Egyptian Serapis were known by that title. It may be
added that the authenticity of this letter is by no means beyond dispute, and that R. Taylor
urges some very strong arguments against it. Among others, he suggests: "The undeniable fact
that the first Christians were the greatest liars and forgers that had ever been in the whole
world, and that they actually stopped at nothing.... The flagrant atopism of Christians being
found in the remote province of Bithynia, before they had acquired any notoriety in Rome....
The inconsistency of the supposition that so just and moral a people as the primitive Christians
are assumed to have been, should have been the first to provoke the Roman Government to depart
from its universal maxims of toleration, liberality, and indifference.... The use of the torture
to extort confession.... The choice of women to be the subjects of this torture, when the ill-usage
of women was, in like manner, abhorrent to the Roman character" ("Diegesis," pp. 383, 384).

Paley boldly states that Martial (born A.D. 43, died about A.D. 100) makes the Christians "the
subject of his ridicule," because he wrote an epigram on the stupidity of admiring any vain-glorious
fool who would rush to be tormented for the sake of notoriety. Hard-set must Christians be
for evidence, when reduced to rely on such pretended allusions.

Epictetus (flourished first half of second century) is claimed as another witness, because
he states that "It is possible a man may arrive at this temper, and become indifferent to these
things from madness, or from habit, as the Galileans" (Book iv., chapter 7). The Galileans,
i.e., the people of Galilee, appear to have had a bad name, and it is highly probable that
Epictetus simply referred to them, just as he might have said as an equivalent phrase for stupidity,
"like the Boeotians." In addition to this, the followers of Judas the Gaulonite were known
as Galileans, and were remarkable for the "inflexible constancy which, in defence of their
cause, rendered them insensible of death and tortures" ("Decline and Fall," vol. ii., p. 214).

Marcus Aurelius (born A.D. 121, died A.D. 180) is Paley's last support, as he urges that fortitude
in the face of death should arise from judgment, "and not from obstinacy, like the Christians."
As no one disputes the existence of a sect called Christians when Marcus Aurelius wrote, this
testimony is not specially valuable.

Paley, so keen to swoop down on any hint that can be twisted into an allusion to the Christians,
entirely omits the interesting letter written by the Emperor Adrian to his brother-in-law Servianus,
A.D. 134. The evidence is not of an edifying character, and this accounts for the omission:
"The worshippers of Serapis are Christians, and those are consecrated to the god Serapis, who,
I find, call themselves the bishops of Christ" (Quoted in "Diegesis," p. 386).

Such are the whole external evidences of Christianity until after A.D. 160. In a time rich
in historians and philosophers one man, Tacitus, in a disputed passage, mentions a Christus
punished under Pontius Pilate, and the existence of a sect bearing his name. Suetonius, Pliny,
Adrian, possibly Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius, casually mention some people called Christians.

The Rev. Dr. Giles thus summarises the proofs of the weakness of early Christian evidences
in "profane history:"--

"Though the remains of Grecian and Latin profane literature which belong to the first and second
centuries of our era are enough to form a library of themselves, they contain no allusion to
the New Testament.... The Latin writers, who lived between the time of Christ's crucifixion
and the year A.D. 200, are Seneca, Lucan, Suetonius, Tacitus, Persius, Juvenal, Martial, Pliny
the Elder, Silius Italicus, Statius, Quintilian, and Pliny the Younger, besides numerous others
of inferior note. The greater number of these make mention of the Jews, but not of the Christians.
In fact, Suetonius, Tacitus, and the younger Pliny, are the only Roman writers who mention
the Christian religion or its founder" ("Christian Records," by Rev. Dr. Giles, P. 36).

"The Greek classic writers, who lived between the time of Christ's crucifixion and the year
200, are those which follow: Epictetus, Plutarch, Ælian, Arrian, Galen, Lucian, Dionysius of
Halicarnassus, Ptolemy, Marcus Aurelius (who, though a Roman emperor, wrote in Greek), Pausanias,
and many others of less note. The allusions to Christianity found in their works are singularly
brief" (Ibid, p. 42).

What does it all, this "evidence," amount to? One writer, Tacitus, records that a man, called
by his followers "Christ"--for no one pretends that Christ is anything more than a title given
by his disciples to a certain Jew named Jesus--was put to death by Pontius Pilate. And suppose
he were, what then? How is this a proof of the religion called Christianity? Tacitus knows
nothing of the miracle-worker, of the risen and ascended man; he is strangely ignorant of all
the wonders that had occurred; and, allowing the passage to be genuine, it tells sorely against
the marvellous history given by the Christians of their leader, whose fame is supposed to have
spread far and wide, and whose fame most certainly must so have spread had he really performed
all the wonderful works attributed to him. But no necessity lies upon the Freethinker, when
he rejects Christianity, to disprove the historical existence of Jesus of Nazareth, although
we point to the inadequacy of the evidence even of his existence. The strength of the Freethought
position is in no-wise injured by the admission that a young Jew named Joshua (i.e. Jesus)
may have wandered up and down Galilee and Judæa in the reign of Tiberius, that he may have
been a religious reformer, that he may have been put to death by Pontius Pilate for sedition.
All this is perfectly likely, and to allow it in no way endorses the mass of legend and myth
encrusted round this tiny nucleus of possible fact. This obscure peasant is not the Christian
Jesus, who is--as we shall later urge--only a new presentation of the ancient Sun-God, with
unmistakeable family likeness to his elder brothers. The Reverend Robert Taylor very rightly
remarks, concerning this small historical possibility: "These are circumstances which fall
entirely within the scale of rational possibility, and draw for no more than an ordinary and
indifferent testimony of history, to command the mind's assent. The mere relation of any historian,
living near enough to the time supposed to guarantee the probability of his competent information
on the subject, would have been entitled to our acquiescence. We could have no reason to deny
or to doubt what such an historian could have had no motive to feign or to exaggerate. The
proof, even to demonstration, of these circumstances would constitute no step or advance towards
the proof of the truth of the Christian religion; while the absence of a sufficient degree
of evidence to render even these circumstances unquestionable must, à fortiori, be fatal to
the credibility of the less credible circumstances founded upon them" ("Diegesis," p. 7).

But Paley pleads some indirect evidence on behalf of Christianity, which deserves a word of
notice since the direct evidence so lamentably breaks down. He urges that: "there is satisfactory
evidence that many, professing to be original witnesses of the Christian miracles, passed their
lives in labours, dangers, and sufferings, voluntarily under-gone, in attestation of the accounts
which they delivered, and solely in consequence of their belief of those accounts; and that
they also submitted, from the same motives, to new rules of conduct." Nearly 200 pages are
devoted to the proof of this proposition, a proposition which it is difficult to characterise
with becoming courtesy, when we know the complete and utter absence of any "satisfactory evidence"
that the original witnesses did anything of the kind.

It is pleaded that the "original witnesses passed their lives in labours, etc., in attestation
of the accounts they delivered." The evidence of this may be looked for either in Pagan or
in Christian writings. Pagan writers know literally nothing about the "original witnesses,"
mentioning, at the utmost, but "the Christians;" and these Christians, when put to death, were
not so executed in attestation of any accounts delivered by them, but wholly and solely because
of the evil deeds and the scandalous practices rightly or wrongly attributed to them. Supposing--what
is not true--that they had been executed for their creed, there is no pretence that they were
eye-witnesses of the miracles of Christ.

Paley's first argument is drawn "from the nature of the case"--i.e., that persecution ought
to have taken place, whether it did or not, because both Jews and Gentiles would reject the
new creed. So far as the Jews are concerned, we hear of no persecution from Josephus. If we
interrogate the Christian Acts, we hear but of little, two persons only being killed. We learn
also that "many thousands of Jews" belonged to the new sect, and were propitiated by Christian
conformity to the law; and that, when the Jews rose against Paul--not as a Christian, but as
a breaker of the Mosaic law--he was promptly delivered by the Romans, who would have set him
at liberty had he not elected to be tried at Rome. If we turn to the conduct of the Pagans,
we meet the same blank absence of evidence of persecution, until we come to the disputed passage
in Tacitus, wherein none of the eye-witnesses are said to have been concerned; and we have,
on the other side, the undisputed fact that, under the imperial rule of Rome, every subject
nation practised its own creed undisturbed, so long as it did not incite to civil disturbances.
"The religious tenets of the Galileans, or Christians, were never made a subject of punishment,
or even of inquiry" ("Decline and Fall," vol. ii., p. 215).

This view of the matter is thoroughly corroborated by Lardner: "The disciples of Jesus Christ
were under the protection of the Roman law, since the God they worshipped and whose worship
they recommended, was the God of the heavens and the earth, the same God whom the Jews worshipped,
and the worship of whom was allowed of all over the Roman Empire, and established by special
edicts and decrees in most, perhaps in all the places, in which we meet with St. Paul in his
travels" ("Credibility," vol. i., pt. I, pp. 406, 407. Ed. 1727). He also quotes "a remarkable
piece of justice done the Jews at Doris, in Syria, by Petronius, President of that province.
The fact is this: Some rash young fellows of the place got in and set up a statue of the Emperor
in the Jews' synagogue. Agrippa the Great made complaints to Petronius concerning this injury.
Whereupon Petronius issued a very sharp precept to the magistrates of Doris. He terms this
action an offence, not against the Jews only, but also against the Emperor; says, it is agreeable
to the law of nature that every man should be master of his own places, according to the decree
of the Emperor. I have, says he, given directions that they who have dared to do these things
contrary to the edict of Augustus, be delivered to the centurion Vitellius Proculus, that they
may be brought to me, and answer for their behaviour. And I require the chief men in the magistracy
to discover the guilty to the centurion, unless they are willing to have it thought, that this
injustice has been done with their consent; and that they see to it, that no sedition or tumult
happen upon this occasion, which, I perceive, is what some are aiming at.... I do also require,
that for the future, you seek no pretence for sedition or disturbance, but that all men worship
[God] according to their own customs" (Ibid, pp. 382, 383). After giving some other facts,
Lardner sums up: "These are authentic testimonies in behalf of the equity of the Roman Government
in general, and of the impartial administration of justice by the Roman presidents--toward
all the people of their provinces, how much soever they differed from each other in matters
of religion" (Ibid, p. 401).

The evidence of persecution which consists in quotations from the Christian books ("Evidences,"
pages 33-52) cannot be admitted without evidence of the authenticity of the books quoted. The
Acts and the Pauline epistles so grossly contradict each other that, having nothing outside
themselves with which to compare them, they are mutually destructive. "The epistle to the Romans
presents special difficulties to its acceptance as a genuine address to the Church of Rome
in the era ascribed to it. The faith of this Church, at this early period, is said to be 'spoken
of throughout the whole world'; and yet when Paul, according to the Acts, at a later time visited
Rome, so little had this alleged Church influenced the neighbourhood, that the inquiring Jews
of Rome are shown to be totally ignorant of what constituted Christianity, and to have looked
to Paul to enlighten them" ("Portraiture and Mission of Jesus," p. 15). 2 Cor. is of very doubtful
authenticity. The passage in James shows no fiery persecution. Hebrews is of later date. 2
Thess. again very doubtful. The "suffering" spoken of by Peter appears, from the context, to
refer chiefly to reproaches, and a problematical "if any man suffer as a Christian." Had those
he wrote to been then suffering, surely the apostle would have said: "When any man suffers
... let him not be ashamed." The whole question of the authenticity of the canonical books
will be challenged later, and the weakness of this division of Paley's evidences will then
be more fully apparent. Meanwhile we subjoin Lardner's view of these passages. He has been
arguing that the Romans "protected the many rites of all their provinces;" and he proceeds:
"There is, however, one difficulty which, I am aware, may be started by some persons. If the
Roman Government, to which all the world was then subject, was so mild and gentle, and protected
all men in the profession of their several religious tenets, and the practice of all their
peculiar rites, whence comes it to pass that there are in the Epistles so many exhortations
to the Christians to patience and constancy, and so many arguments of consolation suggested
to them, as a suffering body of men? [Here follow some passages as in Paley.] To this I answer:
1. That the account St. Luke has given in the Acts of the Apostles of the behaviour of the
Roman officers out of Judæa, and in it, is confirmed not only by the account I have given of
the genius and nature of the Roman Government, but also by the testimony of the most ancient
Christian writers. The Romans did afterwards depart from these moderate maxims; but it is certain
that they were governed by them as long as the history of the Acts of the Apostles reaches.
Tertullian and divers others do affirm that Nero was the first Emperor that persecuted the
Christians; nor did he begin to disturb them till after Paul had left Rome the first time he
was there (when he was sent thither by Festus), and, therefore, not until he was become an
enemy to all mankind. And I think that, according to the account which Tacitus has given of
Nero's inhumane treatment of the Christians at Rome, in the tenth year of his reign, what he
did then was not owing to their having different principles in religion from the Romans, but
proceeded from a desire he had to throw off from himself the odium of a vile action--namely,
setting fire to the city--which he was generally charged with. And Sulpicius Severus, a Christian
historian of the fourth century, says the same thing" ("Credibility of the Gospel History,"
vol. i., pages 416-420). Lardner, however, allows that the Jews persecuted the Christians where
they could although they were unable to slay them. They probably persecuted them much in the
same fashion that the Christians have persecuted Freethinkers during the present century.

But Paley adduces further the evidence of Clement, Hermas, Polycarp, Ignatius, and a circular
letter of the Church of Smyrna, to prove the sufferings of the eye-witnesses ("Evidences,"
pages 52-55). When we pass into writings of this description in later times, there is, indeed,
plenty of evidence--in fact, a good deal too much, for they testify to such marvellous occurrences,
that no trust is possible in anything which they say. Not only was St. Paul's head cut off,
but the worthy Bishop of Rome, Linus, his contemporary (who is supposed to relate his martyrdom),
tells us how, "instead of blood, nought but a stream of pure milk flowed from his veins;" and
we are further instructed that his severed head took three jumps in "honour of the Trinity,
and at each spot on which it jumped there instantly struck up a spring of living water, which
retains at this day a plain and distinct taste of milk" ("Diegesis," pp. 256, 257). Against
a mass of absurd stories of this kind, the only evidence of the persecution of Paley's eye-witnesses,
we may set the remarks of Gibbon: "In the time of Tertullian and Clemens of Alexandria the
glory of martyrdom was confined to St. Peter, St. Paul, and St. James. It was gradually bestowed
on the rest of the Apostles by the more recent Greeks, who prudently selected for the theatre
of their preaching and sufferings some remote country beyond the limits of the Roman Empire"
("Decline and Fall," vol. ii., p. 208, note). Later there was, indeed, more persecution; but
even then the martyrdoms afford no evidence of the truth of Christianity. Martyrdom proves
the sincerity, but not the truth, of the sufferer's belief; every creed has had its martyrs,
and as the truth of one creed excludes the truth of every other, it follows that the vast majority
have died for a delusion, and that, therefore, the number of martyrs it can reckon is no criterion
of the truth of a creed, but only of the devotion it inspires. While we allow that the Christians
underwent much persecution, there can be no doubt that the number of the sufferers has been
grossly exaggerated. One can scarcely help suspecting that, as real martyrs were not forthcoming
in as vast numbers as their supposed bones, martyrs were invented to fit the wealth-producing
relics, as the relics did not fit the historical martyrs. "The total disregard of truth and
probability in the representations of these primitive martyrdoms was occasioned by a very natural
mistake. The ecclesiastical writers of the fourth and fifth centuries ascribed to the magistrates
of Rome the same degree of implacable and unrelenting zeal which filled their own breasts against
the heretics, or the idolaters of their own time.... But it is certain, and we may appeal to
the grateful confessions of the first Christians, that the greatest part of those magistrates,
who exercised in the provinces the authority of the Emperor, or of the Senate, and to whose
hands alone the jurisdiction of life and death was entrusted, behaved like men of polished
manners and liberal education, who respected the rules of justice, and who were conversant
with the precepts of philosophy. They frequently declined the odious task of persecution, dismissed
the charge with contempt, or suggested to the accused Christian some legal evasion by which
he might elude the severity of the laws. (Tertullian, in his epistle to the Governor of Africa,
mentions several remarkable instances of lenity and forbearance which had happened within his
own knowledge.)... The learned Origen, who, from his experience, as well as reading, was intimately
acquainted with the history of the Christians, declares, in the most express terms, that the
number of martyrs was very inconsiderable.... The general assertion of Origen may be explained
and confirmed by the particular testimony of his friend Dionysius, who, in the immense city
of Alexandria, and under the rigorous persecution of Decius, reckons only ten men and seven
women who suffered for the profession of the Christian name" ("Decline and Fall," vol. ii.,
pp. 224-226. See throughout chap. xvi.). Gibbon calculates the whole number of martyrs of the
Early Church at "somewhat less than two thousand persons;" and remarks caustically that the
"Christians, in the course of their intestine dissensions, have inflicted far greater severities
on each other than they had experienced from the zeal of infidels" (pp. 273, 274). Supposing,
however, that the most exaggerated accounts of Church historians were correct, how would that
support Paley's argument? His contention is that the "eye-witnesses" of miraculous events died
in testimony of their belief in them; and myriads of martyrs in the second and third centuries
are of no assistance to him. So we will retrace our steps to the eye-witnesses, and we find
the position of Gibbon--as to the lives and labours of the Apostles being written later by
men not confining themselves to facts--endorsed by Mosheim, who judiciously observes: "Many
have undertaken to write this history of the Apostles, a history which we find loaded with
fables, doubts, and difficulties, when we pursue it further than the books of the New Testament,
and the most ancient writers in the Christian Church" ("Eccles. Hist.," p. 27, ed. 1847). What
"ancient writers" Mosheim alludes to it is difficult to guess, as may be judged from his criticisms
quoted below, on the "Apostolic Fathers," the most ancient of all; and in estimating the worth
of his opinion, it is necessary to remember that he was himself an earnest Christian, although
a learned and candid one, so that every admission he makes, which tells against Christianity,
is of double weight, it being the admission of a friend and defender.

To the credit of Paley's apostolic evidences (Clement, Hermas, Polycarp, Ignatius, and letter
from Smyrna), we may urge the following objections. Clement's writings are much disputed: "The
accounts which remain of his life, actions, and death are, for the most part, uncertain. Two
Epistles to the Corinthians, written in Greek, have been attributed to him, of which the second
has been looked upon as spurious, and the first as genuine, by many learned writers. But even
this latter seems to have been corrupted and interpolated by some ignorant and presumptuous
author.... The learned are now unanimous in regarding the other writings which bear the name
of Clemens (Clement) ... as spurious productions ascribed by some impostor to this venerable
prelate, in order to procure them a high degree of authority" (Ibid, pp. 31, 32).

"The first epistle, bearing the name of Clement, has been preserved to us in a single manuscript
only. Though very frequently referred to by ancient Christian writers, it remained unknown
to the scholars of Western Europe until happily discovered in the Alexandrian manuscript....
Who the Clement was, to whom these writings are ascribed, cannot with absolute certainty be
determined. The general opinion is, that he is the same as the person of that name referred
to by St. Paul (Phil. iv. 3). The writings themselves contain no statement as to their author....
Although, as has been said, positive certainty cannot be reached on the subject, we may with
great probability conclude that we have in this epistle a composition of that Clement who is
known to us from Scripture as having been an associate of the great apostle. The date of this
epistle has been the subject of considerable controversy. It is clear from the writing itself
that it was composed soon after some persecution (chapter I) which the Roman Church had endured;
and the only question is, whether we are to fix upon the persecution under Nero or Domitian.
If the former, the date will be about the year 68; if the latter, we must place it towards
the close of the first century, or the beginning of the second. We possess no external aid
to the settlement of this question. The lists of early Roman bishops are in hopeless confusion,
some making Clement the immediate successor of St. Peter, others placing Linus, and others
still Linus and Anacletus, between him and the apostle. The internal evidence, again, leaves
the matter doubtful, though it has been strongly pressed on both sides. The probability seems,
on the whole, to be in favour of the Domitian period, so that the epistle may be dated about
A.D. 97" ("The Writings of the Apostolic Fathers." Translated by Rev. Dr. Roberts, Dr. Donaldson,
and Rev. F. Crombie, pp. 3, 4. Ed. 1867). "Only a single-manuscript copy of the work is extant,
at the end of the Alexandrian manuscript of the Scriptures. This copy is considerably mutilated.
In some passages the text is manifestly corrupt, and other passages have been suspected of
being interpolations" (Norton's "Genuineness of the Gospels," vol. i, p. 336. Ed. 1847).

The second epistle is rejected on all sides. "It is now generally regarded as one of the many
writings which have been falsely ascribed to Clement.... The diversity of style clearly points
to a different writer from that of the first epistle" ("Apostolic Fathers," page 53). "The
second epistle ... is not mentioned at all by the earlier Fathers who refer to the first. Eusebius,
who is the first writer who mentions it, expresses doubt regarding it, while Jerome and Photius
state that it was rejected by the ancients. It is now universally regarded as spurious" ("Supernatural
Religion," pp. 220, 221). "There is a second epistle ascribed to Clement, but we know not that
this is as highly approved as the former, and know not that it has been in use with the ancients.
There are also other writings reported to be his, verbose and of great length. Lately, and
some time ago, those were produced that contain the dialogues of Peter and Apion, of which,
however, not a syllable is recorded by the primitive Church" (Eusebius' "Eccles. Hist." bk.
iii., chap. 38). "The first Greek Epistle alone can be confidently pronounced genuine" (Westcott
on the "Canon of the New Testament," p. 24. Ed. 1875). The first epistle "is the only piece
of Clement that can be relied on as genuine" ("Lardner's Credibility," pt. ii., vol. i., p.
62. Ed. 1734). "Besides the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians there is a fragment of a
piece, called his second epistle, which being doubtful, or rather plainly not Clement's, I
don't quote as his." (Ibid, p. 106.)

This very dubious Clement (Paley quotes, be it said, from the first--or least doubtful--of
his writings) only says that one of Paley's original witnesses was martyred, namely Peter;
Paul, of course, was not an eye-witness of Christ's proceedings.

The Vision of Hermas is a simple rhapsody, unworthy of a moment's consideration, of which Mosheim
justly remarks: "The discourse which he puts into the mouths of those celestial beings is more
insipid and senseless than what we commonly hear among the meanest of the multitude" ("Eccles.
Hist," p. 32). Its date is very doubtful; the Canon of Muratori puts it in the middle of the
second century, saying that it was written by Hermas, brother to Pius, Bishop of Rome, who
died A.D. 142. (See "Norton's Genuineness of the Gospels," vol. i., pp. 341, 342.) "The Epistle
to the Philippians, which is ascribed to Polycarp, Bishop of Smyrna, who, in the middle of
the second century, suffered martyrdom in a venerable and advanced age, is looked upon by some
as genuine; by others as spurious; and it is no easy matter to determine this question" ("Eccles.
Hist," p. 32). "Upon no internal ground can any part of this Epistle be pronounced genuine;
there are potent reasons for considering it spurious, and there is no evidence of any value
whatever supporting its authenticity" ("Sup. Rel.," p. 283).

The editors of the "Apostolic Fathers" dispute this assertion, and say: "It is abundantly established
by external testimony, and is also supported by the internal evidence" (p. 67). But they add:
"The epistle before us is not perfect in any of the Greek MSS. which contain it. But the chapters
wanting in Greek are contained in an ancient Latin version. While there is no ground for supposing,
as some have done, that the whole epistle is spurious, there seems considerable force in the
arguments by which many others have sought to prove chap. xiii. to be an interpolation. The
date of the epistle cannot be satisfactorily determined. It depends on the conclusion we reach
as to some points, very difficult and obscure, connected with that account of the martyrdom
of Polycarp which has come down to us. We shall not, however, be far wrong if we fix it about
the middle of the second century" (Ibid, pp. 67, 68). Poor Paley! this weak evidence to the
martyrdom of his eye-witnesses comes 150 years after Christ; and even then all that Polycarp
may have said, if the epistle chance to be authentic, is that "they suffered," without any
word of their martyrdom!

The authenticity of the letters of Ignatius has long been a matter of dispute. Mosheim, who
accepts the seven epistles, says that, "Though I am willing to adopt this opinion as preferable
to any other, yet I cannot help looking upon the authenticity of the epistle to Polycarp as
extremely dubious, on account of the difference of style; and, indeed, the whole question relating
to the epistles of St. Ignatius in general seems to me to labour under much obscurity, and
to be embarrassed with many difficulties" ("Eccles. Hist.," p. 22).

"There are in all fifteen epistles which bear the name of Ignatius. These are the following:
One to the Virgin Mary, two to the Apostle John, one to Mary of Cassobelæ, one to the Tarsians,
one to the Antiochians, one to Hero (a deacon of Antioch), one to the Philippians, one to the
Ephesians, one to the Magnesians, one to the Trallians, one to the Romans, one to the Philadelphians,
one to the Smyrnians, and one to Polycarp. The first three exist only in Latin; all the rest
are extant also in Greek. It is now the universal opinions of critics that the first eight
of these professedly Ignatian letters are spurious. They bear in themselves indubitable proofs
of being the production of a later age than that in which Ignatius lived. Neither Eusebius
nor Jerome makes the least reference to them; and they are now, by common consent, set aside
as forgeries, which were at various dates, and to serve special purposes, put forth under the
name of the celebrated Bishop of Antioch. But, after the question has been thus simplified,
it still remains sufficiently complex. Of the seven epistles which are acknowledged by Eusebius"
("Eccles. Hist," bk. iii., chap. 36), we possess two Greek recensions, a shorter and a longer.
"It is plain that one or other of these exhibits a corrupt text; and scholars have, for the
most part, agreed to accept the shorter form as representing the genuine letters of Ignatius....
But although the shorter form of the Ignatian letters had been generally accepted in preference
to the longer, there was still a pretty prevalent opinion among scholars that even it could
not be regarded as absolutely free from interpolations, or as of undoubted authenticity....
Upon the whole, however, the shorter recension was, until recently, accepted without much opposition
... as exhibiting the genuine form of the epistles of Ignatius. But a totally different aspect
was given to the question by the discovery of a Syriac version of three of these epistles among
the MSS. procured from the monastery of St. Mary Deipara, in the desert of Nitria, in Egypt
[between 1838 and 1842].... On these being deposited in the British Museum, the late Dr. Cureton,
who then had charge of the Syriac department, discovered among them, first, the epistle to
Polycarp, and then again the same epistle, with those to the Ephesians and to the Romans, in
two other volumes of manuscripts" ("Apostolic Fathers," pp. 139-142). Dr. Cureton gave it as
his opinion that the Syriac letters are "the only true and genuine letters of the venerable
Bishop of Antioch that have either come down to our times or were ever known in the earliest
ages of the Christian Church" ("Corpus Ignatianum," ed. 1849, as quoted in the "Apostolic Fathers,"
p. 142).

"I have carefully compared the two editions, and am very well satisfied upon that comparison
that the larger are an interpolation of the smaller, and not the smaller an epitome or abridgment
of the larger. I desire no better evidence in a thing of this nature.... But whether the smaller
themselves are the genuine writings of Ignatius, Bishop of Antioch, is a question that has
been much disputed, and has employed the pens of the ablest critics. And whatever positiveness
some may have shown on either side, I must own I have found it a very difficult question" ("Credibility,"
pt. 2, vol. ii., p. 153). The Syriac version was then, of course, unknown. Professor Norton,
the learned Christian defender of the Gospels, says: "The seven shorter epistles, the genuineness
of which is contended for, come to us in bad company.... There is, as it seems to me, no reasonable
doubt that the seven shorter epistles ascribed to Ignatius are equally, with all the rest,
fabrications of a date long subsequent to his time." "I doubt whether any book, in its general
tone of sentiment and language, ever betrayed itself as a forgery more clearly than do these
pretended epistles of Ignatius" ("Genuineness of the Gospels," vol. i., pp. 350 and 353, ed. 1847).

"What, then, is the position of the so-called Ignatian epistles? Towards the end of the second
century Irenæus makes a very short quotation from a source unnamed, which Eusebius, in the
fourth century, finds in an epistle attributed to Ignatius. Origen, in the third century, quotes
a few words, which he ascribes to Ignatius, although without definite reference to any particular
epistle; and, in the fourth century, Eusebius mentions seven epistles ascribed to Ignatius.
There is no other evidence. There are, however, fifteen epistles extant, all of which are attributed
to Ignatius, of all of which, with the exception of three, which are only known in a Latin
version, we possess both Greek and Latin versions. Of seven of these epistles--and they are
those mentioned by Eusebius--we have two Greek versions, one of which is very much shorter
than the other; and, finally, we now possess a Syriac version of three epistles, only in a
form still shorter than the shorter Greek version, in which are found all the quotations of
the Fathers, without exception, up to the fourth century. Eight of the fifteen epistles are
universally rejected as spurious (ante, p. 263). The longer Greek version of the remaining
seven epistles is almost unanimously condemned as grossly interpolated; and the great majority
of critics recognise that the shorter Greek version is also much interpolated; whilst the Syriac
version, which, so far as MSS. are concerned, is by far the most ancient text of any letters
which we possess, reduces their number to three, and their contents to a very small compass
indeed. It is not surprising that the vast majority of critics have expressed doubt more or
less strong regarding the authenticity of all these epistles, and that so large a number have
repudiated them altogether. One thing is quite evident--that, amidst such a mass of falsification,
interpolation, and fraud, the Ignatian epistles cannot, in any form, be considered evidence
on any important point.... In fact, the whole of the Ignatian literature is a mass of falsification
and fraud" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., pp. 270, 271, 274). The student may judge from this confusion,
of fifteen reduced to seven long, and seven long reduced to seven short, and seven short reduced
to three, and those three very doubtful, how thoroughly reliable must be Paley's arguments
drawn from this "contemporary of Polycarp." Our editors of the "Fathers" very frankly remark:
"As to the personal history of Ignatius, almost nothing is known" ("Apostolic Fathers," p.
143). Why, acknowledging this, they call him "celebrated," it is hard to say. Truly, the ways
of Christian commentators are dark!

Paley's quotation is taken from the epistle to the Smyrnaeans (not one of the Syriac, be it
noted), and is from the shorter Greek recension. It occurs in chap. iii., and only says that
Peter, and those who were with him, saw Jesus after the resurrection, and believed: "for this
cause also they despised death, and were found its conquerors." Men who believed in a resurrection
might naturally despise death; but it is hard to see how this quotation--even were it authentic--shows
that the apostles suffered for their belief. What strikes one as most remarkable--if Paley's
contention of the sufferings of the witnesses be true, and these writings authentic--is that
so very little mention is made of the apostles, of their labours, toils, and sufferings, and
that these epistles are simply a kind of patchwork, chiefly of Old Testament materials, mixed
up with exhortations about Christ.

The circular epistle of the Church of Smyrna is a curious document. Paley quotes a terrible
account of the tortures inflicted, and one would imagine on reading it that many must have
been put to death. We are surprised to learn, from the epistle itself, that Polycarp was only
the twelfth martyr between the two towns of Smyrna and Philadelphia! The amount of dependence
to be placed on the narrative may be judged by the following:--"As the flame blazed forth in
great fury, we, to whom it was given to witness it, beheld a great miracle, and have been preserved
that we might report to others what then took place. For the fire, shaping itself into the
form of an arch, like the sail of a ship when filled with the wind, encompassed as by a circle
the body of the martyr. And he appeared within, not like flesh which is burnt, but as bread
that is baked, or as gold and silver glowing in a furnace. Moreover, we perceived such a sweet
odour, as if frankincense or some such precious spices had been burning there. At length, when
those men perceived that his body could not be consumed by the fire, they commanded an executioner
to go near, and pierce him with a dagger. And on his doing this, there came forth a dove, and
a great quantity of blood, so that the fire was extinguished" ("Apostolic Fathers," p. 92).
What reliance can be placed on historians(?) who gravely relate that fire does not burn, and
that when a man is pierced with a dagger a dove flies out, together with sufficient blood to
quench a flaming pile? To make this precious epistle still more valuable, one of its transcribers
adds to it:--"I again, Pionius, wrote them (these things) from the previously written copy,
having carefully searched into them, and the blessed Polycarp having manifested them to me
through a revelation[!] even as I shall show in what follows. I have collected these things,
when they had almost faded away through the lapse of time" (Ibid, p. 96). If this is history,
then any absurd dream may be taken as the basis of belief. We may add that this epistle does
not mention the martyrdoms of the eye-witnesses, and it is hard to know why Paley drags it
in, unless he wants to make us believe that his eye-witnesses suffered all the tortures he
quotes; but even Paley cannot pretend that there is a scintilla of proof of their undergoing
any such trials. Thus falls the whole argument based on the "twelve men, whose probity and
good sense I had long known," dying for the persistent assertion of "a miracle wrought before
their eyes," who are used as a parallel of the apostles, as an argument against Hume. For we
have not yet proved that there were any eye-witnesses, or that they made any assertions, and
we have entirely failed to prove that the eye-witnesses were martyred at all, or that the death
of any one of them, save that of Peter, is even mentioned in the alleged documents, so that
the "satisfactory evidences" of the "original witnesses of the Christian miracles" suffering
and dying in attestation of those miracles amount to this, that in a disputed document Peter
is said to have been martyred, and in another, still more doubtful, "the rest of the apostles"
are said to have "suffered." Thus the first proposition of Paley falls entirely to the ground.
The honest truth is that the history of the twelve apostles is utterly unknown, and that around
their names gathers a mass of incredible and nonsensical myth and legend, similar in kind to
other mythological fables, and entirely unworthy of credence by reasonable people.

Nor is proof less lacking of submission "from the same motives, to new rules of conduct." Nowhere
is there a sign that Christian morality was enforced by appeal to the miracles of Christ; miracles
were, in those days, too common an incident to attract much attention, and, indeed, if they
could not win belief in the mission from those Jews before whom they were said to have been
performed, what chance would they have had when the story of their working was only repeated
by hearsay? Again, the rules of conduct were not "new;" the best parts of the Christian morality
had been taught long before Christ (as we shall prove later on by quotations), and were familiar
to the Greeks, Romans, and Egyptians, from the writings of their own philosophers. There would
have been nothing remarkable in a new sect growing up among these peoples, accustomed as they
were to the schools of the philosophers, with their various groups of disciples distinguished
by special names. Why is there anything more wonderful in these Christian societies with a
high moral code, than in the severe and stately morality inculcated and practised by the Stoics?
For the submission of conduct to the "new rules," the less said the better. 1 Corinthians does
not give us a very lofty idea of the morality current among the Christians there, and the angry
reproaches of Jude imply much depravity; the messages to the seven Churches are generally reproving,
not to dwell on many scattered passages of the same character. Outsiders, moreover, speak very
harshly of the Christian societies. Tacitus--whose testimony must be allowed some weight, if
he be quoted as a proof of the existence of the sect--says that they were held in abhorrence
for their crimes, and were condemned for their "enmity to mankind" (the expression of Tacitus
may either mean haters of mankind, or hated by mankind), expressions which show that the adherents
of the higher and purer morality were, at least, singularly unfortunate in the impressions
of it which they conveyed to their neighbours by their lives; and we find, further, the most
scandalous crimes imputed to the Christians, necessitating the enforcement against them of
edicts passed to put down the shameful Bacchanalian mysteries. And here, indeed, is the true
cause of the persecution to which they were subjected under the just and merciful Roman sway,
and this is a point that should not be lost sight of by the student.

About 186 B.C., according to Livy (lib. xxxix. c. 8-19), the Roman Government, discovering
that certain "Bacchanalian mysteries" were habitually celebrated in Rome, issued stern edicts
against the participants in them, and succeeding in, at least partially, suppressing them.
The reason given by the Consul Postumius for these edicts was political, not religious. "Could
they think," he asked, "that youths, initiated under such oaths as theirs, were fit to be made
soldiers? That wretches brought out of the temple of obscenity could be trusted with arms?
That those contaminated with the foul debaucheries of these meetings should be the champions
for the chastity of the wives and children of the Roman people?" "Let us now closely examine
how far the Eleusinian and Bacchanalian feasts resembled the Christian Agapae--whether the
latter, modified and altered a little according to the change which would take place in the
taste of the age, originated from the former, or were altogether from a different source. We
have seen that the forementioned Pagan feasts were, throughout Italy, in a very flourishing
state about 186 years before the Christian era. We have also seen that about this time they
were, at least, partially suppressed in Italy, and those who were wont to take part in them
dispersed over the world. Being zealously devoted to the religion of which these feasts were
part, it is very natural to suppose that, wherever the votaries of this superstition settled,
they soon established these feasts, which they were enabled to carry on secretly, and, therefore,
for a considerable time, undetected.... Both Pagans and Christians, in ancient times, were
particularly careful not to disclose their mysteries; to do so, in violation of their oaths,
would cost their lives" ("The Prophet of Nazareth," by E.P. Meredith, notes, pp. 225, 226).
Mr. Meredith then points out how in Rome, in Lyons, in Vienne, "the Christians were actually
accused of murdering children and others--of committing adultery, incest, and other flagrant
crimes in their secret lovefeasts. The question, therefore, arises--were they really guilty
of the barbarous crimes with which they were so often formally charged, and for the commission
of which they were almost as often legally condemned, and punished with death? Is it probable
that persons at Rome, who had once belonged to these lovefeasts, should tell a deliberate falsehood
that the Christians perpetrated these abominable vices, and that other persons in France, who
had also been connected with these feasts, should falsely state that the Christians were guilty
of the very same execrable crimes? There was no collusion or connection whatever between these
parties, and in making their statements, they could have no self-interested motive. They lived
in different countries, they did not make their statements within twenty years of the same
time, and by making such statements they rendered themselves liable to be punished with death....
The same remark applies to the disclosures made, about 150 years after, by certain females
in Damascus, far remote from either Lyons or Rome. These make precisely the same statement--that
they had once been Christians, that they were privy to criminal acts among them, and that these
Christians, in their very churches, committed licentious deeds. The Romans would never have
so relentlessly persecuted the Christians had they not been guilty of some such atrocities
as were laid to their charge. There are on record abundant proofs that the Romans, from the
earliest account we have of them, tolerated all harmless religions--all such as were not directly
calculated to endanger the public peace, or vitiate public morals, or render life and property
unsafe.... So well known were those horrid vices to be carried on by all Christians in their
nocturnal and secret assemblies, and so certain it was thought that every one who was a Christian
participated in them, that for a person to be known to be a Christian was thought a strong
presumptive proof that he was guilty of these offences. Hence, persons in their preliminary
examinations, who, on being interrogated, answered that they were Christians, were thought
proper subjects for committal to prison.... Pliny further indicates that while some brought
before him, on information, refused to tell him anything as to the nature of their nocturnal
meetings, others replied to his questions as far as their oath permitted them. They told him
that it was their practice, as Christians, to meet on a stated day, before daylight, to sing
hymns; and to bind themselves by a solemn oath that they would do no wrong; that they would
not steal, nor rob, nor commit any act of unchastity; that they would never violate a trust;
and that they joined together in a common and innocent repast. While all these answers to the
questions of the Proconsul are suggestive of the crimes with which the Christians were charged,
still they are a denial of every one of them.... The whole tenor of historical facts is, however,
against their testimony, and the Proconsul did not believe them; but, in order to get at the
entire truth, put some of them to the torture, and ultimately adjourned their trial [see ante,
pp. 203-205]. The manner in which Greek and Latin writers mention the Christians goes far to
show that they were guilty of the atrocious crimes laid to their charge. Suetonius (in Nero)
calls them, 'A race of men of new and villainous superstition' [see ante, p. 201]. The Emperor
Adrian, in a letter to his brother-in-law, Servianus, in the year 134, as given by Vospicius,
says: 'There is no presbyter of the Christians who is not either an astrologer, a soothsayer,
or a minister of obscene pleasures.' Tacitus tells us that Nero inflicted exquisite punishment
upon those people who, under the vulgar appellation of Christians, were held in abhorrence
for their crimes. He also, in the same place, says they were 'odious to mankind;' and calls
their religion a 'pernicious superstition' [see ante, p. 99]. Maximus, likewise, in his letter,
calls them 'votaries of execrable vanity,' who had 'filled the world with infamy.' It would
appear, however, that owing to the extreme measures taken against them by the Romans, both
in Italy and in all the provinces, the Christians, by degrees, were forced to abandon entirely
in their Agapae infant murders, together with every species of obscenity, retaining, nevertheless,
some relics of them, such as the kiss of charity, and the bread and wine, which they contended
was transubstantiated into real flesh and blood.... A very common way of repelling these charges
was for one sect of Christians, which, of course, denounced all other sects as heretics, to
urge that human sacrifices and incestuous festivals were not celebrated by that sect, but that
they were practised by other sects; such, for example, as the Marcionites and the Capocratians.
(Justin Mart., 'Apology,' i., 35; Iren., adv. Haer. i., 24; Clem. Alex., i., 3.) When Tertullian
joined the Montanists, another sect of Christians, he divulged the criminal secrets of the
Church which he had so zealously defended, by saying, in his 'Treatise on Fasting,' c. 17,
that 'in the Agapae the young men lay with their sisters, and wallowed in wantonness and luxury'....
Remnants of these execrable customs remained for a long time, and vestiges of them exist to
this very day, as well in certain words and phrases as in practice. The communion table to
this very day is called the altar, the name of that upon which the ancients sacrificed their
victims. The word sacrament has a meaning, as used by Pliny already cited, which carries us
back to the solemn oath of the Agapaeists. The word mass carries us back still further, and
identifies the present mass with that of the Pagans.... Formerly the consecrated bread was
called host, which word signifies a victim offered as sacrifice, anciently human very often....
Jerome and other Fathers called the communion bread--little body, and the communion table--mystical
table; the latter, in allusion to the heathen and early Christian mysteries, and the former,
in reference to the children sacrificed at the Agapae. The great doctrine of transubstantiation
directly points to the abominable practice of eating human flesh at the Agapae.... Upon the
whole, it is impossible, from the mass of evidence already adduced, to avoid the conclusion
that the early Christians, in their Agapae, were really guilty of the execrable vices with
which they were so often charged, and for which they were sentenced to death. This once admitted,
a reasonable and adequate cause can be assigned for the severe persecutions of the Christians
by the Roman Government--a Government which applied precisely the same laws and modes of persecution
and punishment to them as to the votaries of the Bacchanalian and Eleusinian mysteries, well
known to have been accustomed to offer human sacrifices, and indulge in the most obscene lasciviousness
in their secret assemblies; and a Government which tolerated all kinds of religions, except
those which encouraged practices dangerous to human life, or pernicious to the morals of subjects.
Nor can the facts already advanced fail to show clearly that the Christian Agapae were of Pagan
origin--were identically the same as those Pagan feasts which existed simultaneously with them"
(Ibid, notes, pp. 227, 231).

There can be no doubt that the Christians suffered for these crimes whether or no they were
guilty of them: "Three things are alleged against us: Atheism, Thyestean feasts, OEdipodean
intercourse," says Athenagoras ("Apology," ch. iii). Justin Martyr refers to the same charges
("2nd Apology," ch. xii). "Monsters of wickedness, we are accused of observing a holy rite,
in which we kill a little child and then eat it, in which after the feast we practise incest....
Come, plunge your knife into the babe, enemy of none, accused of none, child of all; or if
that is another's work, simply take your place beside a human being dying before he has really
lived, await the departure of the lately-given soul, receive the fresh young blood, saturate
your bread with it, freely partake" ("Apology," Tertullian, secs. 7, 8). Tertullian pleads
earnestly that these accusations were false: "if you cannot do it, you ought not to believe
it of others. For a Christian is a man as well as you" (Ibid). Yet, when Tertullian became
a Montanist, he declared that these very crimes were committed at the Agapae, so that he spoke
falsely either in the one case or in the other. "It was sometimes faintly insinuated, and sometimes
boldly asserted, that the same bloody sacrifices and the same incestuous festivals, which were
so falsely ascribed to the orthodox believers, were in reality celebrated by the Marcionites,
by the Carpocratians, and by several other sects of the Gnostics.... Accusations of a similar
kind were retorted upon the Church by the schismatics who had departed from its communion;
and it was confessed on all sides that the most scandalous licentiousness of manners prevailed
among great numbers of those who affected the name of Christians. A Pagan magistrate, who possessed
neither leisure nor abilities to discern the almost imperceptible line which divides the orthodox
faith from heretical depravity, might easily have imagined that their mutual animosity had
extorted the discovery of their common guilt" ("Decline and Fall," Gibbon, vol. ii., pp. 204,
205). It was fortunate, the historian concludes, that some of the magistrates reported that
they discovered no such criminality. It is, be it noted, simultaneously with the promulgation
of these charges that the persecution of the Christians takes place; during the first century
very little is heard of such, and there is very little persecution [see ante, pp. 209-213].
In the following century the charges are frequent, and so are the persecutions.

To these strong arguments may be added the acknowledgment in 1. Cor. xi., 17, 22, of disorder
and drunkenness at these Agapae; the habit of speaking of the communion feast as "the Christian
mysteries," a habit still kept up in the Anglican prayer-book; the fact that they took place
at night, under cover of darkness, a custom for which there was not the smallest reason, unless
the service were of a nature so objectionable as to bring it under the ban of the tolerant
Roman law; and lastly, the use of the cross, and the sign of the cross, the central Christian
emblem, and one that, especially in connection with the mysteries, is of no dubious signification.
Thus, in the twilight in which they were veiled in those early days, the Christians appear
to us as a sect of very different character to that bestowed upon them by Paley. A little later,
when they emerge into historical light, their own writers give us sufficient evidence whereby
we may judge them; and we find them superstitious, grossly ignorant, quarrelsome, cruel, divided
into ascetics and profligates, between whom it is hard to award the palm for degradation and
indecency.

Having "proved"--in the above fashion--that a number of people in the first century advanced
"an extraordinary story," underwent persecution, and altered their manner of life, because
of it, Paley thinks it "in the highest degree probable, that the story for which these persons
voluntarily exposed themselves to the fatigues and hardships which they endured, was a miraculous
story; I mean, that they pretended to miraculous evidence of some kind or other" ("Evidences,"
p. 64). That the Christians believed in a miraculous story may freely be acknowledged, but
it is evidence of the truth of the story that we want, not evidence of their belief in it.
Many ignorant people believe in witchcraft and in fortune-telling now-a-days, but their belief
only proves their own ignorance, and not the truth of either superstition. The next step in
the argument is that "the story which Christians have now" is "the story which Christians had
then" and it is urged that there is in existence no trace of any story of Jesus Christ "substantially
different from ours" ("Evidences," p. 69). It is hard to judge how much difference is covered
by the word "substantially." All the apocryphal gospels differ very much from the canonical,
insert sayings and doings of Christ not to be found in the received histories, and make his
character the reverse of good or lovable to a far greater extent than "the four." That Christ
was miraculously born, worked miracles, was crucified, buried, rose again, ascended, may be
accepted as "substantial" parts of the story. Yet Mark and John knew nothing of the birth,
while, if the Acts and the Epistles are to be trusted, the apostles were equally ignorant;
thus the great doctrine of the Incarnation of God without natural generation, is thoroughly
ignored by all save Matthew and Luke, and even these destroy their own story by giving genealogies
of Jesus through Joseph, which are useless unless Joseph was his real father. The birth from
a virgin, then has no claim to be part of Paley's miraculous story in the earliest times. The
evidence of miracle-working by Christ to be found in the Epistles is chiefly conspicuous by
its absence, but it figures largely in post-apostolic works. The crucifixion, resurrection,
and ascension are generally acknowledged, and these three incidents compose the whole story
for which a consensus of testimony can be claimed; it will, perhaps, be fair to concede also
that Christ is recognised universally as a miracle-worker, in spite of the strange silence
of the epistles. We need not refer to the testimony of Clement, Polycarp or Ignatius, having
already shown what dependence may be placed on their writings. But we have now three new witnesses,
Barnabas, Quadratus, and Justin Martyr. Paley says: "In an epistle, bearing the name of Barnabas,
the companion of Paul, probably genuine, certainly belonging to that age, we have the sufferings
of Christ," etc. (Evidences p. 75). "Probably genuine, certainly belonging to that age!" Is
Paley joking with his readers, or only trading on their ignorance? "The letter itself bears
no author's name, is not dated from any place, and is not addressed to any special community.
Towards the end of the second century, however, tradition began to ascribe it to Barnabas,
the companion of Paul. The first writer who mentions it is Clement of Alexandria [head of the
Alexandrian School, A.D. 205] who calls its author several times the 'Apostle Barnabas'....
We have already seen in the case of the Epistles ascribed to Clement of Rome, and, as we proceed,
we shall become only too familiar with the fact, the singular facility with which, in the total
absence of critical discrimination, spurious writings were ascribed by the Fathers to Apostles
and their followers.... Credulous piety which attributed writings to every Apostle, and even
to Jesus himself, soon found authors for each anonymous work of an edifying character.... In
the earlier days of criticism, some writers, without much question, adopted the traditional
view as to the authorship of the Epistles, but the great mass of critics are now agreed in
asserting that the composition, which itself is perfectly anonymous, cannot be attributed to
Barnabas the friend and fellow worker of Paul. Those who maintain the former opinion date the
Epistle about A.D. 70-73, or even earlier, but this is scarcely the view of any living critic"
("Supernatural Religion," vol. i., pp. 237-239).

"From its contents it seems unlikely that it was written by a companion of Apostles and a Levite.
In addition to this, it is probable that Barnabas died before A.D. 62; and the letter contains
not only an allusion to the destruction of the Jewish temple, but also affirms the abnegation
of the Sabbath, and the general celebration of the Lord's Day, which seems to show that it
could not have been written before the beginning of the second century" ("Westcott on the Canon,"
p. 41). "Nothing certain is known as to the author of the following epistle. The writer's name
is Barnabas; but scarcely any scholars now ascribe it to the illustrious friend and companion
of St. Paul.... The internal evidence is now generally regarded as conclusive against this
opinion.... The external evidence [ascribing it to Barnabas] is of itself weak, and should
not make us hesitate for a moment in refusing to ascribe this writing to Barnabas, the apostle....
The general opinion is, that its date is not later than the middle of the second century, and
that it cannot be placed earlier than some twenty or thirty years or so before. In point of
style, both as respects thought and expression, a very low place must be assigned it. We know
nothing certain of the region in which the author lived, or where the first readers were to
be found" ("Apostolic Fathers," pp. 99, 100). The Epistle is not ascribed to Barnabas at all
until the close of the second century. Eusebius marks it as "spurious" ("Eccles. Hist," bk.
iii., chap. xxv). Lardner speaks of it as "probably Barnabas's, and certainly ancient" ("Credibility,"
pt. ii., vol. ii., p. 30). When we see the utter conflict of evidence as to the writings of
all these "primitive" authors, we can scarcely wonder at the frank avowal of the Rev. Dr. Giles:
"The writings of the Apostolical Fathers labour under a more heavy load of doubt and suspicion
than any other ancient compositions, either sacred or profane" ("Christian Records," p. 53).

Paley, in quoting "Quadratus," does not tell us that the passage he quotes is the only writing
of Quadratus extant, and is only preserved by Eusebius, who says that he takes it from an apology
addressed by Quadratus to the Emperor Adrian. Adrian reigned from A.D. 117-138, and the apology
must consequently have been presented between these dates. If the apology be genuine, Quadratus
makes the extraordinary assertion that some of the people raised from the dead by Jesus were
then living. Jesus is only recorded to have raised three people--a girl, a young man, and Lazarus;
we will take their ages at ten, twenty, and thirty. "Some of" those raised cannot be less than
two out of the three; we will say the two youngest. Then they were alive at the respectable
ages of from 95-116, and from 105-126. The first may be taken as just within the limits of
possibility; the second as beyond them; but Quadratus talks in a wholesale fashion, which quite
destroys his credibility, and we can lay but little stress on the carefulness or trustworthiness
of a historian who speaks in such reckless words. Added to this, we find no trace of this passage
until Eusebius writes it in the fourth century, and it is well known that Eusebius was not
too particular in his quotations, thinking that his duty was only to make out the best case
he could. He frankly says: "We are totally unable to find even the bare vestiges of those who
may have travelled the way before us; unless, perhaps, what is only presented in the slight
intimations, which some in different ways have transmitted to us in certain partial narratives
of the times in which they lived.... Whatsoever, therefore, we deem likely to be advantageous
to the proposed subject we shall endeavour to reduce to a compact body" ("Eccles. Hist.," bk.
i., chap. i). Accordingly, he produces a full Church History out of materials which are only
"slight intimations," and carefully draws out in detail a path of which not "even the bare
vestiges" are left. Little wonder that he had to rely so much upon his imagination, when he
had to build a church, and had no straws for his bricks.

Paley brings Justin Martyr (born about A.D. 103, died about A.D. 167) as his last authority--as
after his time the story may be taken as established--and says: "From Justin's works, which
are still extant, might be collected a tolerably complete account of Christ's life, in all
points agreeing with that which is delivered in our Scriptures; taken, indeed, in a great measure,
from those Scriptures, but still proving that this account, and no other, was the account known
and extant in that age" ("Evidences," p. 77). If "no other" account was extant, Justin must
have largely drawn on his own imagination when he pretends to be quoting. Jesus, according
to Justin, is conceived "of the Word" ("Apol.," i. 33), not of the Holy Ghost, the third person,
the Holy Ghost being said to be identical with the Word; and he is thus conceived by himself.
He is born, not in Bethlehem in a stable, but in a "cave near the village," because Joseph
could find no lodging in Bethlehem ("Dial." 78). The magi come, not from "the East," but from
Arabia ("Dial." 77). Jesus works as a carpenter, making ploughs and yokes ("Dial." 88). The
story of the baptism is very different ("Dial." 88). In the trial Jesus is set on the judgment
seat, and tauntingly bidden to judge his accusers ("Apol.," i. 35). All the apostles deny him,
and forsake him, after he is crucified ("Apol.," i. 50). These instances might be increased,
and, as we shall see later, Justin manifestly quotes from accounts other than the canonical
gospels. Yet Paley pretends that "no other" account was extant, and that in the very face of
Luke i. 1, which declares that "many have taken in hand" the writing of such histories. If
Paley had simply said that the story of a miracle-worker, named the Anointed Saviour, who was
born of a virgin, was crucified, rose and ascended into heaven, was told with many variations
among the Christians. from about 100 years after his supposed birth, he would have spoken truly;
and had he added to this, that the very same story was told among Egyptians and Hindoos, many
hundreds of years earlier, he would have treated his readers honestly, although he might not
thereby have increased their belief in the "divine origin of Christianity."

Before we pass on to the last evidences offered by Paley, which necessitate a closer investigation
into the value of the testimony borne by the patristic, to the canonical, writings, it will
be well to put broadly the fact, that these Fathers are simply worthless as witnesses to any
matter of fact, owing to the absurd and incredible stories which they relate with the most
perfect faith. Of critical faculty they have none; the most childish nonsense is accepted by
them, with the gravest face; no story is too silly, no falsehood too glaring, for them to believe
and to retail, in fullest confidence of its truth. Gross ignorance is one of their characteristics;
they are superstitious, credulous, illiterate, to an almost incredible extent. Clement considers
that "the Lord continually proves to us that there shall be a future resurrection" by the following
"fact," among others: "Let us consider that wonderful sign which takes place in Eastern lands--that
is, in Arabia and the countries round about. There is a certain bird which is called a phoenix.
This is the only one of its kind, and lives 500 years. And when the time of its dissolution
draws near that it must die, it builds itself a nest of frankincense, and myrrh, and other
spices, into which, when the time is fulfilled, it enters and dies. But, as the flesh decays,
a certain kind of worm is produced, which, being nourished by the juices of the dead bird,
brings forth feathers. Then, when it has acquired strength, it takes up that nest in which
are the bones of its parent, and, bearing these, it passes from the land of Arabia into Egypt,
to the city called Heliopolis. And in open day, flying in the sight of all men, it places them
on the altar of the sun, and, having done this, hastens back to its former abode. The priests
then inspect the registers of the dates, and find that it has returned exactly as the 500th
year was completed" (1st Epistle of Clement, chap. xxv.). Surely the evidence here should satisfy
Paley as to the truth of this story: "the open day," "flying in the sight of all men," the
priests inspecting the registers, and all this vouched for by Clement himself! How reliable
must be the testimony of the apostolic Clement! Tertullian, the Apostolic Constitutions, and
Cyril of Jerusalem mention the same tale. We have already drawn attention to that which was
seen by the writers of the circular letter of the Church of Smyrna. Barnabas loses himself
in a maze of allegorical meanings, and gives us some delightful instruction in natural history;
he is dealing with the directions of Moses as to clean and unclean animals: "'Thou shalt not,'
he says, 'eat the hare.' Wherefore? 'Thou shalt not be a corrupter of boys, nor like unto such.'
Because the hare multiplies, year by year, the places of its conception; for as many years
as it lives, so many foramina it has. Moreover, 'Thou shalt not eat the hyaena.'... Wherefore?
Because that animal annually changes its sex, and is at one time male, and at another female.
Moreover, he has rightly detested the weasel ... For this animal conceives by the mouth....
Behold how well Moses legislated" (Epistle of Barnabas, chapter x.). "'And Abraham circumcised
ten and eight and three hundred men of his household.' What, then, was the knowledge given
to him in this? Learn the eighteen first, and then the three hundred. The ten and the eight
are thus denoted--Ten by I, and Eight by H. You have Jesus. And because the cross was to express
the grace by the letter T, he says also Three Hundred. He signifies, therefore, Jesus by two
letters, and the cross by one.... No one has been admitted by me to a more excellent piece
of knowledge than this, but I know that ye are worthy" (Ibid, chapter ix.). And this is Paley's
companion of the Apostles! Ignatius tells us of the "star of Bethlehem." "A star shone forth
in heaven above all other stars, and the light of which was inexpressible, while its novelty
struck men with astonishment. And all the rest of the stars, with the sun and moon, formed
a chorus to this star" (Epistle to the Ephesians, chap. xix.). Why should we accept Ignatius'
testimony to the star, and reject his testimony to the sun and moon and stars singing to it?
Or take Origen against Celsus: "I have this further to say to the Greeks, who will not believe
that our Saviour was born of a virgin: that the Creator of the world, if he pleases, can make
every animal bring forth its young in the same wonderful manner. As, for instance, the vultures
propagate their kind in this uncommon way, as the best writers of natural history do acquaint
us" (chap, xxxiii., as quoted in "Diegesis," p. 319). Or shall we turn to Irenæus, so invaluable
a witness, since he knew Polycarp, who knew John, who knew Jesus? Listen, then, to the reminiscences
of John, as reported by Irenæus: "John related the words of the Lord concerning the times of
the kingdom of God: the days would come when vines would grow, each with 10,000 shoots, and
to each shoot 10,000 branches, and to each branch 10,000 twigs, and to each twig 10,000 clusters,
and to each cluster 10,000 grapes, and each grape which is crushed will yield twenty-five measures
of wine. And when one of the saints will reach after one of these clusters, another will cry:
'I am a better cluster than it; take me, and praise the Lord because of me.' Likewise, a grain
of wheat will produce 10,000 ears, each ear 10,000 grains, each grain ten pounds of fine white
flour. Other fruits, and seeds, and herbs in proportion. The whole brute creation, feeding
on such things as the earth brings forth, will become sociable and peaceable together, and
subject to man with all humility" ("Iren. Haer.," v., 33, 3-4, as quoted in Keim's "Jesus of
Nazara," p. 45). What trust can be placed in the truth of facts to which these men pretend
to bear witness when we find St. Augustine preaching that "he himself, being at that time Bishop
of Hippo Regius, had preached the Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ to a whole nation
of men and women that had no heads, but had their eyes in their bosoms; and in countries still
more southerly he preached to a nation among whom each individual had but one eye, and that
situate in the middle of the forehead" ("Syntagma," p. 33, as quoted in "Diegesis," p. 257).

Eusebius tells us of a man, named Sanctus, who was tortured until his body "was one continued
wound, mangled and shrivelled, that had entirely lost the form of man;" and, when the tormentors
began again on the same day, he "recovered the former shape and habit of his limbs" ("Eccles.
Hist," bk. v., chap. i.). He then was sent to the amphitheatre, passing down the lane of scourgers,
was dragged about and lacerated by the wild beast, roasted in an iron chair, and after this
was "at last dispatched!" Other accounts, such as that of a man scourged till his bones were
"bared of the flesh," and then slowly tortured, are given as history, as though a man in that
condition would not speedily bleed to death. But it is useless to give more of these foolish
stories, which weary us as we toil through the writings of the early Church. Well may Mosheim
say that the "Apostolic Fathers, and the other writers, who, in the infancy of the Church,
employed their pens in the cause of Christianity, were neither remarkable for their learning
nor their eloquence" ("Eccles. Hist," p. 32). Thoroughly unreliable as they are, they are useless
as witnesses of supposed miraculous events; and, in relating ordinary occurrences, they should
not be depended upon in any matter of importance, unless they be corroborated by more trustworthy
historians.

The last point Paley urges in support of his proposition is, that the accounts contained in
"the historical Books of the New Testament" are "deserving of credit as histories," and that
such is "the situation of the authors to whom the four Gospels are ascribed that, if any one
of the four be genuine, it is sufficient for our purpose." This brings us, indeed, to the crucial
point of our investigation, for, as we can gain so little information from external sources,
we are perforce driven to the Christian writings themselves. If they break down under criticism
as completely as the external evidences have done, then Christianity becomes hopelessly discredited
as to its historical basis, and must simply take rank with the other mythologies of the world.
But before we can accept the writings as historical, we are bound to investigate their authenticity
and credibility. Does the external evidence suffice to prove their authenticity? Do the contents
of the books themselves commend them as credible to our intelligence? It is possible that,
although the historical evidence authenticating them be somewhat defective, yet the thorough
coherency and reasonableness of the books may induce us to consider them as reliable; or, if
the latter points be lacking from the supernatural character of the occurrences related, yet
the evidence of authenticity may be so overwhelming as to place the accuracy of the accounts
beyond cavil. But if external evidence be wanting, and internal evidence be fatal to the truthfulness
of the writings, then it will become our duty to remove them from the temple of history, and
to place them in the fairy gardens of fancy and of myth, where they may amuse and instruct
the student, without misleading him as to questions of fact.

The positions which we here lay down are:--

a. That forgeries bearing the names of Christ, and of the apostles, and of the early Fathers,
were very common in the primitive Church.

b. That there is nothing to distinguish the canonical from the apocryphal writings.

c. That it is not known where, when, by whom, the canonical writings were selected.

d. That before about A.D. 180 there is no trace of four Gospels among the Christians.

e. That before that date Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John are not selected as the four evangelists.

f. That there is no evidence that the four Gospels mentioned about that date were the same
as those we have now.

g. That there is evidence that two of them were not the same.

h. That there is evidence that the earlier records were not the Gospels now esteemed canonical.

i. That the books themselves show marks of their later origin.

j. That the language in which they are written is presumptive evidence against their authenticity.

k. That they are in themselves utterly unworthy of credit, from (1) the miracles with which
they abound, (2) the numerous contradictions of each by the others, (3) the fact that the story
of the hero, the doctrines, the miracles, were current long before the supposed dates of the
Gospels; so that these Gospels are simply a patchwork composed of older materials.

Paley begins his argument by supposing that the first and fourth Gospels were written by the
apostles Matthew and John, "from personal knowledge and recollection" ("Evidences," p. 87),
and that they must therefore be either true, or wilfully false; the latter being most improbable,
as they would then be "villains for no end but to teach honesty, and martyrs without the least
prospect of honour or advantage" (Ibid, page 88). But supposing that Matthew and John wrote
some Gospels, we should need proof that the Gospels which we have, supposing them to be copies
of those thus written, have not been much altered since they left the apostles' hands. We should
next ask how Matthew can report from "personal knowledge and recollection" all that comes in
his Gospel before he was called from his tax-gathering, as well as many incidents at which
he was not present? and whether his reliability as a witness is not terribly weakened by his
making no distinction between what was fact within his own knowledge, and what was simple hearsay?
Further, we remark that some of the teaching is the reverse of teaching "honesty," and that
such instruction as Matt. v. 39-42 would, if accepted, exactly suit "villains;" that the extreme
glorification of the master would naturally be reflected upon "the twelve" who followed him,
and the authority of the writers would thereby be much increased and confirmed; that pure moral
teaching on some points is no guarantee of the morality of the teacher, for a tyrant, or an
ambitious priest, would naturally wish to discourage crime of some kinds in those he desired
to rule; that such tyrant or priest could find no better creed to serve his purpose than meek,
submissive, non-resisting, heaven-seeking Christianity. Thus we find Mosheim saying of Constantine:
"It is, indeed, probable that this prince perceived the admirable tendency of the Christian
doctrine and precepts to promote the stability of government, by preserving the citizens in
their obedience to the reigning powers, and in the practice of those virtues that render a
State happy" ("Eccles. Hist," p. 87). We discover Charlemagne enforcing Christianity among
the Saxons by sword and fire, hoping that it would, among other things, "induce them to submit
more tamely to the government of the Franks" (Ibid, p. 170). And we see missionaries among
the savages usurping "a despotic dominion over their obsequious proselytes" (Ibid, p. 157);
and "St. Boniface," the "apostle of Germany," often employing "violence and terror, and sometimes
artifice and fraud, in order to multiply the number of Christians" (Ibid, p. 169). Thus do
"villains" very often "teach honesty." Nor is it true that these apostles were "martyrs [their
martyrdom being unproved] without the least prospect of honour or advantage;" on the contrary,
they desired to know what they would get by following Jesus. "What shall we have, therefore?...
Ye which have followed me shall sit upon twelve thrones" (Matt. xix. 27-30); and, further,
in Mark ix. 28-31, we are told that any one who forsakes anything for Jesus shall receive "an
hundredfold now in this time," as well as eternal life in the world to come. Surely, then,
there was "prospect" enough of "honour and advantage"? These remarks apply quite as strongly
to Mark and Luke, neither of whom are pretended to be eye-witnesses. Of Mark we know nothing,
except that it is said that there was a man named John, whose surname was Mark (Acts xii. 12
and 25), who ran away from his work (Acts xv. 38); and a man named Marcus, nephew of Barnabas
(Col. iv. 10), who may, or may not, be the same, but is probably somebody else, as he is with
Paul; and one of the same name is spoken of (2 Tim. ii.) as "profitable for the ministry,"
which John Mark was not, and who (Philemon 24) was a "fellow-labourer" with Paul in Rome, while
John Mark was rejected in this capacity by Paul at Antioch. Why Mark, or John Mark, should
write a Gospel, he not having been an eye-witness, or why Mark, or John Mark, should be identical
with Mark the Evangelist, only writers of Christian evidences can hope to understand. (Mosheim's
"Eccles. Hist.," p. 31). These difficulties arise, to a great extent, from the large number
of forgeries, purporting to be writings of Christ, of the apostles, and of the apostolic Fathers,
current in the early Church. (Ibid, p. 31). "Another erroneous practice was adopted by them,
which, though it was not so universal as the other, was yet extremely pernicious, and proved
a source of numberless evils to the Christian Church. It does not, indeed, seem probable that
all these pious frauds were chargeable upon the professors of real Christianity, upon those
who entertained just and rational sentiments of the religion of Jesus. The greatest part of
these fictitious writings undoubtedly flowed from the fertile invention of the Gnostic sects,
though it cannot be affirmed that even true Christians were entirely innocent and irreproachable
in this matter" (Ibid, p. 55). "This disingenuous and vicious method of surprising their adversaries
by artifice, and striking them down, as it were, by lies and fiction, produced, among other
disagreeable effects, a great number of books, which were falsely attributed to certain great
men, in order to give these spurious productions more credit and weight" (Ibid, page 77). These
forged writings being so widely circulated, it will be readily understood that "It is not so
easy a matter as is commonly imagined rightly to settle the Canon of the New Testament. For
my own part, I declare, with many learned men, that, in the whole compass of learning, I know
no question involved with more intricacies and perplexing difficulties than this. There are,
indeed, considerable difficulties relating to the Canon of the Old Testament, as appears by
the large controversies between the Protestants and Papists on this head in the last, and latter
end of the preceding, century; but these are solved with much more ease than those of the New....
In settling the old Testament collection, all that is requisite is to disprove the claim of
a few obscure books, which have but the weakest pretences to be looked upon as Scripture; but,
in the New, we have not only a few to disprove, but a vast number to exclude [from] the Canon,
which seem to have much more right to admission than any of the apocryphal books of the Old
Testament; and, besides, to evidence the genuineness of all those which we do receive, since,
according to the sentiments of some who would be thought learned, there are none of them whose
authority has not been controverted in the earliest ages of Christianity.... The number of
books that claim admission [to the canon] is very considerable. Mr. Toland, in his celebrated
catalogue, has presented us with the names of above eighty.... There are many more of the same
sort which he has not mentioned" (J. Jones on "The Canon of the New Testament," vol. i., pp.
2-4. Ed. 1788).

The following list will give some idea of the number of the apocryphal writings from which
the four Gospels, and other books of the New Testament, finally emerge as canonical:--

GOSPELS.

1. Gospel according to the Hebrews.
2. Gospel written by Judas Iscariot.
3. Gospel of Truth, made use of by the Valentinians.
4. Gospel of Peter.
5. Gospel according to the Egyptians.
6. Gospel of Valentinus.
7. Gospel of Marcion.
8. Gospel according to the Twelve Apostles.
9. Gospel of Basilides.
10. Gospel of Thomas (extant).
11. Gospel of Matthias.
12. Gospel of Tatian.
13. Gospel of Scythianus.
14. Gospel of Bartholomew.
15. Gospel of Apelles.
16. Gospels published by Lucianus and Hesychius
17. Gospel of Perfection.
18. Gospel of Eve.
19. Gospel of Philip.
20. Gospel of the Nazarenes (qy. same as first)
21. Gospel of the Ebionites.
22. Gospel of Jude.
23. Gospel of Encratites.
24. Gospel of Cerinthus.
25. Gospel of Merinthus.
26. Gospel of Thaddaeus.
27. Gospel of Barnabas.
28. Gospel of Andrew.
29. Gospel of the Infancy (extant).
30. Gospel of Nicodemus, or Acts of Pilate and Descent
    of Christ to the Under World (extant).
31. Gospel of James, or Protevangelium (extant).
32. Gospel of the Nativity of Mary (extant).
33. Arabic Gospel of the Infancy (extant).
34. Syriac Gospel of the Boyhood of our Lord Jesus (extant).

MISCELLANEOUS.

35. Letter to Agbarus by Christ (extant).
36. Letter to Leopas by Christ (extant).
37. Epistle to Peter and Paul by Christ.
38. Epistle by Christ produced by Manichees.
39. Hymn by Christ (extant).
40. Magical Book by Christ.
41. Prayer by Christ (extant).
42. Preaching of Peter.
43. Revelation of Peter.
44. Doctrine of Peter.
45. Acts of Peter.
46. Book of Judgment by Peter.
47. Book, under the name of Peter, forged by Lentius.
48. Preaching of Peter and Paul at Rome.
49. The Vision, or Acts of Paul and Thecla.
50. Acts of Paul.
51. Preaching of Paul.
52. Piece under name of Paul, forged by an "anonymous writer in Cyprian's
    time."
53. Epistle to the Laodiceans under name of Paul (extant).
54. Six letters to Seneca under name of Paul (extant).
55. Anabaticon or Revelation of Paul.
56. The traditions of Matthias.
57. Book of James.
58. Book, under name of James, forged by Ebionites.
59. Acts of Andrew, John, and Thomas.
60. Acts of John.
61. Book, under name of John, forged by Ebionites.
62. Book under name of John.
63. Book, under name of John, forged by Lentius.
64. Acts of Andrew.
65. Book under name of Andrew.
66. Book, under name of Andrew, by Naxochristes and Leonides.
67. Book under name of Thomas.
68. Acts of Thomas.
69. Revelation of Thomas.
70. Writings of Bartholomew.
71. Book, under name of Matthew, forged by Ebionites.
72. Acts of the Apostles by Leuthon, or Seleucus.
73. Acts of the Apostles used by Ebionites.
74. Acts of the Apostles by Lenticius.
75. Acts of the Apostles used by Manichees.
76. History of the Twelve Apostles by Abdias (extant).
77. Creed of the Apostles (extant).
78. Constitutions of the Apostles (extant).
79. Acts, under Apostles' names, by Leontius.
80. Acts, under Apostles' names, by Lenticius.
81. Catholic Epistle, in imitation of the Apostles of
    Themis, on the Montanists.
82. Revelation of Cerinthus, nominally apostolical.
83. Book of the Helkesaites which fell from Heaven.
84. Books of Lentitius.
85. Revelation of Stephen.
86. Works of Dionysius the Areopagite (extant).
87. History of Joseph the carpenter (extant).
88. Letter of Agbarus to Jesus (extant).
89. Letter of Lentulus (extant).
90. Story of Veronica (extant).
91. Letter of Pilate to Tiberius (extant).
92. Letters of Pilate to Herod (extant).
93. Epistle of Pilate to Cæsar (extant).
94. Report of Pilate the Governor (extant).
95. Trial and condemnation of Pilate (extant).
96. Death of Pilate (extant).
97. Story of Joseph of Arimathraea (extant).
98. Revenging of the Saviour (extant).
99. Epistle of Barnabas.
100. Epistle of Polycarp.
101-15. Fifteen epistles of Ignatius (see above, pages 217-220.)
116. Shepherd of Hermas.
117. First Epistle to the Corinthians of Clement (possibly partly
     authentic).
118. Second Epistle to the Corinthians of Clement.
119. Apostolic Canons of Clement.
120. Recognitions of Clement and Clementina.
121-122. Two Epistles of St. Clement of Rome (written in Syriac).
123-128. Six books of Justin Martyr.
129-132. Four books of Justin Martyr.

The above are collected from Jones' On the Canon, Supernatural Religion, Eusebius, Mosheim's
Ecclesiastical History, Cowper's Apocryphal Gospels, Dr. Giles' Christian Records, and the
Apostolic Fathers.

After reading this list, the student will be able to appreciate the value of Paley's argument,
that, "if it had been an easy thing in the early times of the institution to have forged Christian
writings, and to have obtained currency and reception to the forgeries, we should have had
many appearing in the name of Christ himself" ("Evidences," p. 106). Paley acknowledges "one
attempt of this sort, deserving of the smallest notice;" and, in a note, adds three more of
those mentioned above. Let us see what the evidence is of the genuineness of the letter to
Agbarus, the "one attempt" in question, as given by Eusebius. Agbarus, the prince of Edessa,
reigning "over the nations beyond the Euphrates with great glory," was afflicted with an incurable
disease, and, hearing of Jesus, sent to him to entreat deliverance. The letter of Agbarus is
carried to Jesus, "at Jerusalem, by Ananias, the courier," and the answer of Jesus, also written,
is returned by the same hands. The letter of Jesus runs as follows, and is written in Syriac:
"Blessed art thou, O Agbarus, who, without seeing me, hast believed in me! For it is written
concerning me, that they who have seen me will not believe, that they who have not seen me
may believe and live. But in regard to what thou hast written, that I should come to thee,
it is necessary that I should fulfil all things here, for which I have been sent. And, after
this fulfilment, thus to be received again by Him that sent me. And after I have been received
up, I will send to thee a certain one of my disciples, that he may heal thy affliction, and
give life to thee, and to those who are with thee." After the ascension of Jesus, Thaddaeus,
one of the seventy, is sent to Edessa, and lodges in the house of Tobias, the son of Tobias,
and heals Agbarus and many others. "These things were done in the 340th year" (Eusebius does
not state what he reckons from). The proof given by Eusebius for the truth of the account is
as follows: "Of this also we have the evidence, in a written answer, taken from the public
records of the city of Edessa, then under the government of the king. For, in the public registers
there, which embrace the ancient history and the transactions of Agbarus, these circumstances
respecting him are found still preserved down to the present day. There is nothing, however,
like hearing the epistles themselves, taken by us from the archives, and the style of it, as
it has been literally translated by us, from the Syriac language" ("Eccles. Hist.," bk. i.,
chap. xiii.). And Paley calls this an attempt at forgery, "deserving of the smallest notice,"
and dismisses it in a few lines. It would be interesting to know for what other "Scripture,"
canonical or uncanonical, there is evidence of authenticity so strong as for this; exactness
of detail in names; absence of any exaggeration more than is implied in recounting any miracle;
the transaction recorded in the public archives; seen there by Eusebius himself; copied down
and translated by him; such evidence for any one of the Gospels would make belief far easier
than it is at present. The assertion of Eusebius was easily verifiable at the time (to use
the favourite argument of Christians for the truth of any account); and if Eusebius here wrote
falsely, of what value is his evidence on any other point? A Freethinker may fairly urge that
Eusebius is not trustworthy, and that this assertion of his about the archives is as likely
to be false as true; but the Christian can scarcely admit this, when so much depends, for him,
on the reliability of the great Church historian, all whose evidence would become worthless
if he be once allowed to have deliberately fabricated that which did not exist.

We have already noticed the writings of the Apostolic Fathers, and pointed out the numerous
forgeries circulated under their names, and the consequent haze hanging over all the early
Christian writers, until we reach the time of Justin Martyr. Thus we entirely destroy the whole
basis of Paley's argument, that "the historical books of the New Testament ... are quoted,
or alluded to, by a series of Christian writers, beginning with those who were contemporary
with the Apostles, or who immediately followed them" ("Evidences," page 111;) for we have no
certain writings of any such contemporaries. "Their pretences are specious and plausible, for
the most part going under the name of our Saviour himself, his apostles, their companions,
or immediate successors. They are generally thought to be cited by the first Christian writers
with the same authority (at least, many of them) as the sacred books we receive. This Mr. Toland
labours hard to persuade us; but, what is more to be regarded, men of greater merit and probity
have unwarily dropped expressions of the like nature. Everybody knows (says the learned Casaubon
against Cardinal Baronius) that Justin Martyr, Clemens Alexandrinus, Tertullian, and the rest
of the primitive writers, were wont to approve and cite books which now all men know to be
apocryphal. Clemens Alexandrinus (says his learned annotator, Sylburgius) was too much pleased
with apocryphal writings. Mr. Dodwell (in his learned dissertation on Irenæus) tells us that,
till Trajan, or, perhaps, Adrian's time, no canon was fixed; the supposititious pieces of the
heretics were received by the faithful, the apostles' writings bound up with theirs, and indifferently
used in the churches. To mention no more, the learned Mr. Spanheim observes, that Clemens Alexandrinus
and Origen very often cite apocryphal books under the express name of Scripture.... How much
Mr. Whiston has enlarged the Canon of the New Testament, is sufficiently known to the learned
among us. For the sake of those who have not perused his truly valuable books I would observe,
that he imagines the 'Constitutions of the Apostles' to be inspired, and of greater authority
than the occasional writings of single Apostles and Evangelists. That the two Epistles of Clemens,
the Doctrine of the Apostles, the Epistle of Barnabas, the Shepherd of Hermas, the second book
of Esdras, the Epistles of Ignatius, and the Epistle of Polycarp, are to be reckoned among
the sacred authentic books of the New Testament; as also that the Acts of Paul, the Revelation,
Preaching, Gospel and Acts of Peter, were sacred books, and, if they were extant, should be
of the same authority as any of the rest" (J. Jones, on the "Canon," p. 4-6). This same learned
writer further says: "That many, or most of the books of the New Testament, have been rejected
by heretics in the first ages, is also certain. Faustus Manichæus and his followers are said
to have rejected all the New Testament, as not written by the Apostles. Marcion rejected all,
except St. Luke's Gospel. The Manichees disputed much against the authority of St. Matthew's
Gospel. The Alogians rejected the Gospel of St. John as not his, but made by Cerinthus. The
Acts of the Apostles were rejected by Severus, and the sect of his name. The same rejected
all Paul's Epistles, as also did the Ebionites, and the Helkesaites. Others, who did not reject
all, rejected some particular epistles.... Several of the books of the New Testament were not
universally received, even among them who were not heretics, in the first ages.... Several
of them have had their authority disputed by learned men in later times" (Ibid, pp. 8, 9).

If recognition by the early writers be taken as a proof of the authenticity of the works quoted,
many apocryphal documents must stand high. Eusebius, who ranks together the Acts of Paul, the
Shepherd of Hermas, the Revelation of Peter, the Epistle of Barnabas, the Institutions of the
Apostles, and the Revelation of John (now accounted canonical) says that these were not embodied
in the Canon (in his time) "notwithstanding that they are recognised by most ecclesiastical
writers" ("Eccles. Hist.," bk. iii., chap. xxv.). The Canon, in his time, was almost the same
as at present, but the canonicity of the epistles of James and Jude, the 2nd of Peter, the
2nd and 3rd of John, and the Revelation, was disputed even as late as when he wrote. Irenæus
ranks the Pastor of Hermas as Scripture; "he not only knew, but also admitted the book called
Pastor" (Ibid, bk. v., chap. viii.). "The Pastor of Hermas is another work which very nearly
secured permanent canonical rank with the writings of the New Testament. It was quoted as Holy
Scripture by the Fathers, and held to be divinely inspired, and it was publicly read in the
churches. It has place with the Epistle of Barnabas in the Sinaitic Codex, after the canonical
books" ("Supernatural Religion," vol. i., p. 261).

The two Epistles of Clement are only "preserved to us in the Codex Alexandrinus, a MS. assigned
by the most competent judges to the second half of the fifth, or beginning of the sixth century,
in which these Epistles follow the books of the New Testament. The second Epistle ... thus
shares with the first the honour of a canonical position in one of the most ancient codices
of the New Testament" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., p. 220). These epistles are, also, amongst those
mentioned in the Apostolic Canons. "Until a comparatively late date this [the first of Clement]
Epistle was quoted as Holy Scripture" (Ibid, p. 222). Origen quotes the Epistle of Barnabas
as Scripture, and calls it a "Catholic Epistle" (Ibid, p. 237), and this same Father regards
the Shepherd of Hermas as also divinely inspired. (Norton's "Genuineness of the Gospels," vol.
i., p. 341). Gospels, other than the four canonical, are quoted as authentic by the earliest
Christian writers, as we shall see in establishing position h; thus destroying Paley's contention
("Evidences," p. 187) that there are no quotations from apocryphal writings in the Apostolical
Fathers, the fact being that such quotations are sown throughout their supposed writings.

It is often urged that the expression, "it is written," is enough to prove that the quotation
following it is of canonical authority.

"Now with regard to the value of the expression, 'it is written,' it may be remarked that in
no case could its use, in the Epistle of Barnabas, indicate more than individual opinion, and
it could not, for reasons to be presently given, be considered to represent the opinion of
the Church. In the very same chapter in which the formula is used in connection with the passage
we are considering, it is also employed to introduce a quotation from the Book of Enoch, [Greek:
peri hou gegraptai hos Henoch legei], and elsewhere (c. xii.) he quotes from another apocryphal
book as one of the prophets.... He also quotes (c. vi.) the apocryphal book of Wisdom as Holy
Scripture, and in like manner several unknown works. When it is remembered that the Epistle
of Clement to the Corinthians, the Pastor of Hermas, the Epistle of Barnabas itself, and many
other apocryphal works have been quoted by the Fathers as Holy Scripture, the distinctive value
of such an expression may be understood" (Ibid, pp. 242, 243). "The first Christian writers
... quote ecclesiastical books from time to time as if they were canonical" (Westcott on "The
Canon," p. 9). "In regard to the use of the word [Greek: gegraptai], introducing the quotation,
the same writer [Hilgenfeld] urges reasonably enough that it cannot surprise us at a time when
we learn from Justin Martyr that the Gospels were read regularly at public worship [or rather,
that the memorials of the Apostles were so read]; it ought not, however, to be pressed too
far as involving a claim to special divine inspiration, as the same word is used in the epistle
in regard to the apocryphal book of Enoch; and it is clear, also, from Justin, that the Canon
of the Gospels was not yet formed, but only forming" ("Gospels in the Second Century," Rev.
W. Sanday, p. 73. Ed. 1876). Yet, in spite of all this, Paley says, "The phrase, 'it is written,'
was the very form in which the Jews quoted their Scriptures. It is not probable, therefore,
that he would have used this phrase, and without qualification, of any books but what had acquired
a kind of Scriptural authority" ("Evidences," p. 113). Tischendorf argues on Paley's lines
and says that "it was natural, therefore, to apply this form of expression to the Apostles'
writings, as soon as they had been placed in the Canon with the books of the Old Testament.
When we find, therefore, in ancient ecclesiastical writings, quotations from the Gospels introduced
with this formula, 'it is written,' we must infer that, at the time when the expression was
used, the Gospels were certainly treated as of equal authority with the books of the Old Testament"
("When Were Our Gospels Written?" p. 89. Eng. Ed., 1867). Dr. Tischendorf, if he believe in
his own argument, must greatly enlarge his Canon of the New Testament.

Paley's further plea that "these apocryphal writings were not read in the churches of Christians"
("Evidences," p. 187) is thoroughly false. Eusebius tells us of the Pastor of Hermas: "We know
that it has been already in public use in our churches" ("Eccles. Hist.," bk. iii., ch. 3).
Clement's Epistle "was publicly read in the churches at the Sunday meetings of Christians"
("Sup. Rel," vol. i., p. 222). Dionysius of Corinth mentions this same early habit of reading
any valued writing in the churches: "In this same letter he mentions that of Clement to the
Corinthians, showing that it was the practice to read in the churches, even from the earliest
times. 'To-day,' says he, 'we have passed the Lord's holy-day, in which we have read your epistle,
in reading which we shall always have our minds stored with admonition, as we shall, also,
from that written to us before by Clement'" (Eusebius' "Eccles. Hist.," bk. iv., ch. 23). So
far is "reading in the churches" to be accepted as a proof, even of canonicity, much less of
genuineness, that Eusebius remarks that "the disputed writings" were "publicly used by many
in most of the churches" (Ibid, bk. iii., ch. 31). Paley then takes as a further mark of distinction,
between canonical and uncanonical, that the latter "were not admitted into their volume" and
"do not appear in their catalogues," but we have already seen that the only MS. copy of Clement's
first Epistle is in the Codex Alexandrinus (see ante p. 246), while the Epistle of Barnabas
and the Pastor of Hermas find their place in the Sinaitic Codex (see ante p. 246); the second
Epistle of Clement is also in the Codex Alexandrinus, and both epistles are in the Apostolic
constitutions (see ante p. 247). The Canon of Muratori--worthless as it is, it is used as evidence
by Christians--brackets the Apocalypse of John and of Peter ("Sup. Rel.," vol. ii., p. 241).
Canon Westcott says: "'Apocryphal' writings were added to manuscripts of the New Testament,
and read in churches; and the practice thus begun continued for a long time. The Epistle of
Barnabas was still read among the 'apocryphal Scriptures' in the time of Jerome; a translation
of the Shepherd of Hermas is found in a MS. of the Latin Bible as late as the fifteenth century.
The spurious Epistle to the Laodicenes is found very commonly in English copies of the Vulgate
from the ninth century downwards, and an important catalogue of the Apocrypha of the New Testament
is added to the Canon of Scripture subjoined to the Chronographia of Nicephorus, published
in the ninth century" ("On the Canon," pp. 8, 9). Paley's fifth distinction, that they "were
not noticed by their [heretical] adversaries" is as untrue as the preceding ones, for even
the fragments of "the adversaries" preserved in Christian documents bear traces of reference
to the apocryphal writings, although, owing to the orthodox custom of destroying unorthodox
books, references of any sort by heretics are difficult to find. Again, Paley should have known,
when he asserted that the uncanonical writings were not alleged as of authority, that the heretics
did appeal to gospels other than the canonical. Marcion, for instance, maintained a Gospel
varying from the recognised one, while the Ebionites contended that their Hebrew Gospel was
the only true one. Eusebius further tells us of books "adduced by the heretics under the name
of the Apostles, such, viz., as compose the Gospels of Peter, Thomas, and Matthew, and others
beside them, or such as contain the Acts of the Apostles, by Andrew and John, and others" ("Eccles.
Hist," bk. iii., ch. 25. See also ante p. 246). It is hard to believe that Paley was so grossly
ignorant as to know nothing of these facts; did he then deliberately state what he knew to
be utterly untrue? His last "mark" does not touch our position, as the commentaries, etc.,
are too late to be valuable as evidence for the alleged superiority of the canonical writings
during the first two centuries. The other section of Paley's argument, that "when the Scriptures
[a very vague word] are quoted, or alluded to, they are quoted with peculiar respect, as books
sui generis" is met by the details given above as to the fashion in which the Fathers referred
to the writings now called uncanonical, and by the evidence adduced in this section we may
fairly claim to have proved that, so far as external testimony goes, there is nothing to distinguish
the canonical from the apocryphal writings.

But there is another class of evidence relied upon by Christians, wherewith they seek to build
up an impassable barrier between their sacred books and the dangerous uncanonical Scriptures,
namely, the intrinsic difference between them, the dignity of the one, and the puerility of
the other. Of the uncanonical Gospels Dr. Ellicott writes: "Their real demerits, their mendacities,
their absurdities, their coarseness, the barbarities of their style, and the inconsequence
of their narratives, have never been excused or condoned" ("Cambridge Essays," for 1856, p.
153, as quoted in introduction of "The Apocryphal Gospels," by B.H. Cowper, p. x. Ed. 1867).
"We know before we read them that they are weak, silly, and profitless--that they are despicable
monuments even of religious fiction" (Ibid, p. xlvii). How far are such harsh expressions consonant
with fact? It is true that many of the tales related are absurd, but are they more absurd than
the tales related in the canonical Gospels? One story, repeated with variations, runs as follows:
"This child Jesus, being five years old, was playing at the crossing of a stream, and he collected
the running waters into pools, and immediately made them pure, and by his word alone he commanded
them. And having made some soft clay, he fashioned out of it twelve sparrows; and it was the
Sabbath when he did these things. And there were also many other children playing with him.
And a certain Jew, seeing what Jesus did, playing on the Sabbath, went immediately and said
to Joseph, his father, Behold, thy child is at the water-course, and hath taken clay and formed
twelve birds, and hath profaned the Sabbath. And Joseph came to the place, and when he saw
him, he cried unto him, saying, Why art thou doing these things on the Sabbath, which it is
not lawful to do? And Jesus clapped his hands, and cried unto the sparrows, and said to them,
Go away; and the sparrows flew up and departed, making a noise. And the Jews who saw it were
astonished, and went and told their leaders what they had seen Jesus do" ("Gospel of Thomas:
Apocryphal Gospels," B.H. Cowper, pp. 130, 131). Making the water pure by a word is no more
absurd than turning water into wine (John ii. 1-11); or than sending an angel to trouble it,
and thereby making it health-giving (John v. 2-4); or than casting a tree into bitter waters,
and making them sweet (Ex. xv. 25). The fashioning of twelve sparrows out of soft clay is not
stranger than making a woman out of a man's rib (Gen. ii. 21); neither is it more, or nearly
so, curious as making clay with spittle, and plastering it on a blind man's eyes in order to
make him see (John ix. 6); nay, arguing à la F.D. Maurice, a very strong reason might be made
out for this proceeding. Thus, Jesus came to reveal the Father to men, and his miracles were
specially arranged to show how God works in the world; by turning the water into wine, and
by multiplying the loaves, he reminds men that it is God whose hand feeds them by all the ordinary
processes of nature. (Gen. ii. 19) at the creation, and when the Son was revealed to bring
about the new creation, what more appropriate miracle could he perform than this reminiscence
of paradise, clearly suggesting to the Jews that the Jehovah, who, of old, formed the fowls
of the air out of the ground, was present among them in the incarnate Word, performing the
same mighty work? Exactly in this fashion do Maurice, Robertson, and others of their school,
deal with the miracles of Christ recorded in the canonical gospels (see Maurice on the Miracles,
Sermon IV., in "What is Revelation?"). The number, twelve, is also significant, being that
of the tribes of Israel, and the local colouring--the complaining Jews and the violated Sabbath--is
in perfect harmony with the other gospels. The action of Jesus, vindicating the conduct complained
of by the performance of a miracle, is in the fullest accord with similar instances related
in the received stories. It is, however, urged that some of the miracles of Jesus, as given
in the apocrypha, are dishonouring to him, because of their destructive character; the son
of Annas, the scribe, spills the water the child Jesus has collected, and Jesus gets angry
and says, "Thou also shalt wither like a tree;" and "suddenly the boy withered altogether"
(Ap. Gos., p. 131). This seems in thorough unity with the spirit Jesus showed in later life,
when he cursed the fig-tree, because it did not bear fruit in the wrong season, and "presently
the fig-tree withered away" (Matt. xxi. 19). Or a child, running against him purposely, falls
dead; or a master lifting his hand against him, has the arm withered which essays to strike.
Later, of Judas, who betrays him, we read that, "falling headlong, he burst asunder in the
midst, and all his bowels gushed out" (Acts i. 18); while, in the Old Testament, which speaks
of Christ, we are told, in figures, we learn that, when Jeroboam tried to seize a prophet,
"his hand, which he put forth against him, dried up, so that he could not pull it in again
to him" (1 Kings xiii. 4). If destructiveness be thought injurious when related of Jesus, what
shall we say to the wanton destruction of the herd of swine which Jesus filled with devils,
and sent racing into the sea? (Matt. viii. 28-34.) The miracle the child works to rectify a
mistake of his father's in his carpenter's business, taking hold of some wood which has been
cut too short and lengthening it, is certainly not more silly than the miracle worked by the
man when money is short, and he (Matt. xvii. 24-27) sends Peter to catch a fish with money
in its mouth (why not, by the way, have fished directly for the coin? it would be quite as
possible for a coin to transfix itself on a hook, as for a fish, with a piece of money in its
mouth, to swallow a hook). Other miracles recorded in the apocryphal gospels, of healing and
of raising the dead, are identical in spirit with those told of him in the canonical. We may
also remark that, unless there were some received traditions of miracles worked by Jesus in
his household, there is no reason for the evident expectation of some help which is said to
have been shown by Mary when the guests want wine at the wedding (John ii. 3-5). That verse
11 states that this was his first miracle is only one of the many inconsistencies of the gospel
stories. Passing from these gospels of the infancy to those which tell of the sufferings of
Jesus, we shall find in the "Gospel of Nicodemus, or Acts of Pilate," much that shows their
full accordance with the received writings of the New Testament. This point is so important,
as equalising the canonical and uncanonical gospels, that no excuse is needed for proving it
by somewhat extensive extracts. The gospel opens as follows: "I, Ananias, a provincial warden,
being a disciple of the law, from the divine Scriptures recognised our Lord Jesus Christ, and
came to him by faith; and was also accounted worthy of holy baptism. Now, when searching the
records of what was wrought in the time of our Lord Jesus Christ, which the Jews laid up under
Pontius Pilate, I found that these Acts were written in Hebrew, and by the good pleasure of
God I translated them into Greek for the information of all who call on the name of our Lord
Jesus Christ, under the government of our Lord Flavius Theodosius, the 17th year, and in the
6th consulate of Flavius Valentinianus, in the 9th indiction." It may here be noted for what
it is worth that Justin Martyr (1st Apology, chap, xxxv.) refers the Romans to the Acts of
Pilate as public documents open to them, which is testimony far stronger than he gives to any
canonical gospel. "In the 15th year of the government of Tiberius Cæsar, King of the Romans,
and of Herod, King of Galilee, the 9th year of his reign, on the 8th before the calends of
April, which is the 25th of March; in the consulship of Rufus and Rubellio; in the 4th year
of the 202nd Olympiad, when Joseph Caiaphas was high priest of the Jews. Whatsoever, after
the cross and passion of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Saviour God, Nicodemus recorded and wrote
in Hebrew, and left to posterity, is after this fashion" ("Apocryphal Gospels," B.H. Cowper,
pp. 229, 230). In the first chapter we learn how the Jews came to Pilate, and accuse Jesus,
"that he saith he is the son of God and a king; moreover, he profaneth the Sabbaths, and wisheth
to abolish the law of our fathers." After some conversation, Jesus is brought, and in chap.
2 we read the message from Pilate's wife, and "Pilate, having called the Jews, said to them,
Ye know that my wife is religious, and inclined to practise Judaism with you. They said unto
him, Yea, we know it. Pilate saith to them, Behold my wife hath sent to me, saying, Have nothing
to do with this just man, for I have suffered very much because of him in the night. But the
Jews answered, and said to Pilate, Did we not tell thee that he is a magician? Behold, he hath
sent a dream to thy wife." The trial goes on, and Pilate declares the innocence of Jesus, and
then confers with him as in John xviii. 33-37. Then comes the question (chaps, iii. and iv.):
"Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? Jesus saith to him, Truth is from heaven. Pilate saith,
Is truth not upon earth? Jesus saith to Pilate, Thou seest how they who say the truth are judged
by those who have power upon earth. And, leaving Jesus within the prætorium, Pilate went out
to the Jews, and saith unto them, I find no fault in him." The conversation between Pilate
and the Jews is then related more fully than in the canonical accounts, and after this follows
a scene of much pathos, which is far more in accord with the rest of the tale than the accepted
story, wherein the multitude are represented as crying with one voice for his death. Nicodemus
(chap. v.) first rises and speaks for Jesus: "Release him, and wish no evil against him. If
the miracles which he doth are of God, they will stand; but, if of men, they will come to nought...
Now, therefore, release this man, for he is not deserving of death." Then (chaps. vi., vii.,
and viii.): "One of the Jews, starting up, asked the governor that he might say a word. The
governor saith, If thou wilt speak, speak. And the Jew said, I lay thirty-eight years on my
bed in pain and affliction. And when Jesus came, many demoniacs, and persons suffering various
diseases, were healed by him; and some young men had pity on me, and carried me with my bed,
and took me to him; and when Jesus saw me, he had compassion, and said the word to me, Take
up thy bed, and walk; and I took up my bed and walked. The Jews said to Pilate, Ask him what
day it was when he was healed. He that was healed said, On the Sabbath. The Jews said, Did
we not tell thee so? that on the Sabbath he healeth and casteth out demons? And another Jew,
starting up, said, I was born blind; I heard a voice, but saw no person; and as Jesus passed
by, I cried with a loud voice, Have pity on me, Son of David, and he had pity on me, and placed
his hands upon my eyes, and immediately I saw. And another Jew, leaping up, said, I was a cripple,
and he made me straight with a word. And another said, I was a leper, and he healed me with
a word. And a certain woman cried out from a distance, and said, I had an issue of blood, and
I touched the hem of his garment, and my issue of blood, which had been for twelve years, was
stayed. The Jews said, We have a law not to admit a woman to witness. And others, a multitude,
both of men and of women, cried and said, This man is a prophet, and demons are subject unto
him. Pilate said to those who said that demons were subject to him, Why were your teachers
not also subject to him? They say unto Pilate, We know not. And others said, That he raised
up Lazarus from the sepulchre, when he had been dead four days. And the governor, becoming
afraid, said to all the multitude of the Jews, Why will ye shed innocent blood?" The story
proceeds much as in the gospels, the names of the malefactors being given; and when Pilate
remarks the three hours' darkness to the Jews, they answer, "An eclipse of the sun has happened
in the usual manner" (chap. xi.). Chap. xiii. gives a full account of the conversation between
the Jews and the Roman soldiers alluded to in Matt. xxviii. 11-15. The remaining chapters relate
the proceedings of the Jews after the resurrection, and are of no special interest. There is
a second Gospel of Nicodemus, varying on some points from the one quoted above, which assumes
to be "compiled by a Jew, named Aeneas; translated from the Hebrew tongue into the Greek, by
Nicodemus, a Roman Toparch." Then we find a second part of the Gospel of Nicodemus, or "The
Descent of Christ to the Under World," which relates how Jesus descended into Hades, and how
he ordered Satan to be bound, and then he "blessed Adam on the forehead with the sign of the
cross; and he did this also to the patriarchs, and the prophets, and martyrs, and forefathers,
and took them up, and sprang up out of Hades." This story manifestly runs side by side with
the tradition in 1. Pet. iii. 19, 20, wherein it is stated that Jesus "went and preached unto
the spirits in prison," and that preaching is placed between his death (v. 18) and his resurrection
(v. 21). The saving by baptism (v. 21) is also alluded to in this connection in Nicodemus,
wherein (chap, xi.) the dead are baptised. The Latin versions of the Gospels of Nicodemus vary
in details from the Greek, but not more than do the four canonical. In these, as in all the
apocryphal writings, there is nothing specially to distinguish them from the accepted Scriptures;
improbabilities and contradictions abound in all; miracles render them all alike incredible;
myriad chains of similarity bind them all to each other, necessitating either the rejection
of all as fabulous, or the acceptance of all as historical. Whether we regard external or internal
evidence, we come to the same conclusion, that there is nothing to distinguish the canonical
from the uncanonical writings.

C. That it is not known where, when, by whom, the canonical writings were selected. Tremendously
damaging to the authenticity of the New Testament as this statement is, it is yet practically
undisputed by Christian scholars. Canon Westcott says frankly: "It cannot be denied that the
Canon was formed gradually. The condition of society and the internal relations of the Church
presented obstacles to the immediate and absolute determination of the question, which are
disregarded now, only because they have ceased to exist. The tradition which represents St.
John as fixing the contents of the New Testament, betrays the spirit of a later age" (Westcott
"On the Canon," p. 4). "The track, however, which we have to follow is often obscure and broken.
The evidence of the earliest Christian writers is not only uncritical and casual, but is also
fragmentary" (Ibid, p. 11). "From the close of the second century, the history of the Canon
is simple, and its proof clear... Before that time there is more or less difficulty in making
out the details of the question.... Here, however, we are again beset with peculiar difficulties.
The proof of the Canon is embarrassed both by the general characteristics of the age in which
it was fixed, and by the particular form of the evidence on which it first depends. The spirit
of the ancient world was essentially uncritical" (Ibid, pp. 6-8). In dealing with "the early
versions of the New Testament," Westcott admits that "it is not easy to over-rate the difficulties
which beset any inquiry into the early versions of the New Testament" ("On the Canon," p. 231).
He speaks of the "comparatively scanty materials and vague or conflicting traditions" (Ibid).
The "original versions of the East and West" are carefully examined by him; the oldest is the
"Peshito," in Syriac--i.e., Aramæan, or Syro-Chaldaic. This must, of course, be only a translation
of the Testament, if it be true that the original books were written in Greek. The time when
this version was formed is unknown, and Westcott argues that "the very obscurity which hangs
over its origin is a proof of its venerable age" (Ibid, p. 240); and he refers it to "the first
half of the second century," while acknowledging that he does so "without conclusive authority"
(Ibid). The Peshito omits the second and third epistles of John, second of Peter, that of Jude,
and the Apocalypse. The origin of the Western version, in Latin, is quite as obscure as that
of the Syriac; and it is also incomplete, compared with the present Canon, omitting the epistle
of James and the second of Peter (Ibid, p. 254). All the evidence so laboriously gathered together
by the learned Canon proves our proposition to demonstration. But, it is admitted on all hands,
that "it is impossible to assign any certain time when a collection of these books, either
by the Apostles, or by any council of inspired or learned men, near their time, was made....
The matter is too certain to need much to be said of it" (Jones "On the Canon," vol. i, p.
7). Jones adds that he hopes to confute "these specious objections ... in the fourth part of
this book," in which he endeavours to prove the Gospels and Acts to be genuine, so that it
does not much matter when they were collected together. In the time of Eusebius the Canon was
still unsettled, as he ranks among the disputed and spurious works, the epistles of James and
Jude, second of Peter, second and third of John, and the Apocalypse ("Eccles. Hist.," bk. iii.,
chap. 25). It is not necessary to offer any further proof in support of our position, that
it is not known where, when, by whom, the canonical writings were selected.

D. That before about A.D. 180 there is no trace of FOUR gospels among the Christians. The first
step we take in attacking the four canonical gospels, apart from the writings of the New Testament
as a whole, is to show that there was no "sacred quaternion" spoken of before about A.D. 180,
i.e., the supposed time of Irenæus. Irenæus is said to have been a bishop of Lyons towards
the close of the second century; we find him mentioned in the letter sent by the Churches of
Vienne and Lyons to "brethren in Asia and Phrygia," as "our brother and companion Irenæus,"
and as a presbyter much esteemed by them ("Eccles. Hist." bk. v., chs. 1, 4). This letter relates
a persecution which occurred in "the 17th year of the reign of the Emperor Antoninus Verus,"
i.e., A.D. 177. Paley dates the letter about A.D. 170, but as it relates the persecution of
A.D. 177, it is difficult to see how it could be written about seven years before the persecution
took place. In that persecution Pothinus, bishop of Lyons, is said to have been slain; he was
succeeded by Irenæus (Ibid bk. v., ch. 5), who, therefore, could not possibly have been bishop
before A.D. 177, while he ought probably to be put a year or two later, since time is needed,
after the persecution, to send the account of it to Asia by the hands of Irenæus, and he must
be supposed to have returned and to have settled down in Lyons before he wrote his voluminous
works; A.D. 180 is, therefore, an almost impossibly early date, but it is, at any rate, the
very earliest that can be pretended for the testimony now to be examined. The works against
heresies were probably written, the first three about A.D. 190, and the remainder about A.D.
198. Irenæus is the first Christian writer who mentions four Gospels; he says:--"Matthew produced
his Gospel, written among the Hebrews, in their own dialect, whilst Peter and Paul proclaimed
the Gospel and founded the church at Rome. After the departure of these, Mark, the disciple
and interpreter of Peter, also transmitted to us in writing what had been preached by him.
And Luke, the companion of Paul, committed to writing the Gospel preached by him. Afterwards
John, the disciple of our Lord, the same that lay upon his bosom, also published the Gospel,
whilst he was yet at Ephesus in Asia" (Quoted by Eusebius, bk. v., ch. 8, from 3rd bk. of "Refutation
and Overthrow of False Doctrine," by Irenæus).

The reasons which compelled Irenæus to believe that there must be neither less nor more than
four Gospels in the Church are so convincing that they deserve to be here put on record. "It
is not possible that the Gospels can be either more or fewer in number than they are. For,
since there are four zones [sometimes translated 'corners' or 'quarters'] of the world in which
we live, and four Catholic spirits, while the Church is scattered throughout all the world,
and the pillar and grounding of the Church is the Gospel and the spirit of life; it is fitting
she should have four pillars, breathing out immortality on every side, and vivifying men afresh.
From which fact it is evident that the Word, the Artificer of all, He that sitteth upon the
Cherubim, and contains all things, He who was manifested to men, has given us the Gospel under
four aspects, but bound together by one Spirit.... For the Cherubim too were four-faced, and
their faces were images of the dispensation of the Son of God.... And, therefore, the Gospels
are in accord with these things, among which Christ Jesus is seated" ("Irenæus," bk. iii.,
chap, xi., sec. 8). The Rev. Dr. Giles, writing on Justin Martyr, the great Christian apologist,
candidly says: "The very names of the Evangelists Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, are never
mentioned by him--do not occur once in all his works. It is, therefore, childish to say that
he has quoted from our existing Gospels, and so proves their existence, as they now are, in
his own time.... He has nowhere remarked, like those Fathers of the Church who lived several
ages after him, that there are four Gospels of higher importance and estimation than any others....
All this was the creation of a later age, but it is wanting in Justin Martyr, and the defect
leads us to the conclusion that our four Gospels had not then emerged from obscurity, but were
still, if in being, confounded with a larger mass of Christian traditions which, about this
very time, were beginning to be set down in writing" ("Christian Records," pp. 71, 72).

Had these four Gospels emerged before A.D. 180, we should most certainly find some mention
of them in the Mishna. "The Mishna, a collection of Jewish traditions compiled about the year
180, takes no notice of Christianity, though it contains a chapter headed 'De Cultu Peregrino,
of strange worship.' This omission is thought by Dr. Paley to prove nothing, for, says he,
'it cannot be disputed but that Christianity was perfectly well known to the world at this
time.' It cannot, certainly, be disputed that Christianity was beginning to be known to the
world, but whether it had yet emerged from the lower classes of persons among whom it originated,
may well be doubted. It is a prevailing error, in biblical criticism, to suppose that the whole
world was feelingly alive to what was going on in small and obscure parts of it. The existence
of Christians was probably known to the compilers of the Mishna in 180, even though they did
not deign to notice them, but they could not have had any knowledge of the New Testament, or
they would undoubtedly have noticed it; if, at least, we are right in ascribing to it so high
a character, attracting (as we know it does) the admiration of every one in every country to
which it is carried" (Ibid, p. 35).

There is, however, one alleged proof of the existence of four, and only four, Gospels, put
forward by Paley:--Tatian, a follower of Justin Martyr, and who flourished about the year 170,
composed a harmony or collection of the Gospels, which he called Diatessaron, of the Four.
This title, as well as the work, is remarkable, because it shows, that then, as now, there
were four and only four, Gospels in general use with Christians ("Evidences," pp. 154, 155).
Paley does not state, until later, that the "follower of Justin Martyr" turned heretic and
joined the Encratites, an ascetic and mystic sect who taught abstinence from marriage, and
from meat, etc.; nor does he tell us how doubtful it is what the Diatessaron--now lost--really
contained. He blandly assures us that it is a harmony of the four Gospels, although all the
evidence is against him. Irenæus, as quoted by Eusebius, says of Tatian that "having apostatised
from the Church, and being elated with the conceit of a teacher, and vainly puffed up as if
he surpassed all others," he invented some new doctrines, and Eusebius further tells us: "Their
chief and founder, Tatianus, having formed a certain body and collection of Gospels, I know
not how, has given this the title Diatessaron, that is the Gospel by the four, or the Gospel
formed of the four" ("Eccles. Hist," bk. iv., ch. 29). Could Eusebius have written that Tatian
formed this, I know not how, if it had been a harmony of the Gospels recognised by the Church
when he wrote? and how is it that Paley knows all about it, though Eusebius did not? And still
further, after mentioning the Diatessaron, Eusebius says of another of Tatian's books: "This
book, indeed, appears to be the most elegant and profitable of all his works" (Ibid). More
profitable than a harmony of the four Gospels! So far as the name goes, as given by Eusebius,
it would seem to imply one Gospel written by four authors. Epiphanius states: "Tatian is said
to have composed the Gospel by four, which is called by some, the Gospel according to the Hebrews"
("Sup. Rel.," vol. ii., p. 155). Here we get the Diatessaron identified with the widely-spread
and popular early Gospel of the Hebrews. Theodoret (circa A.D. 457) says that he found more
than 200 such books in use in Syria, the Christians not perceiving "the evil design of the
composition;" and this is Paley's harmony of the Gospels! Theodoret states that he took these
books away, "and instead introduced the Gospels of the four Evangelists;" how strange an action
in dealing with so useful a work as a harmony of the Gospels, to confiscate it entirely and
call it an evil design! To complete the value of this work as evidence to "four, and only four,
Gospels," we are told by Victor of Capua, that it was also called Diapente, i.e., "by five"
("Sup. Rel.," vol. ii., p. 153). In fact, there is no possible reason for calling the work--whose
contents ate utterly unknown--a harmony of the Gospels at all; the notion that it is a harmony
is the purest of assumptions. There is some slight evidence in favour of the identity of the
Diatessaron with the Gospel of the Hebrews. "Those, however, who called the Gospel used by
Tatian the Gospel according to the Hebrews, must have read the work, and all that we know confirms
their conclusion. The work was, in point of fact, found in wide circulation precisely in the
places in which, earlier, the Gospel according to the Hebrews was more particularly current.
The singular fact that the earliest reference to Tatian's 'harmony' is made a century and a
half after its supposed composition, that no writer before the 5th century had seen the work
itself, indeed, that only two writers before that period mention it at all, receives its natural
explanation in the conclusion that Tatian did not actually compose any harmony at all, but
simply made use of the same Gospel as his master Justin Martyr, namely, the Gospel according
to the Hebrews, by which name his Gospel had been called by those best informed" ("Sup. Rel.,"
vol. ii., pp. 158, 159). As it is not pretended by any that there is any mention of four Gospels
before the time of Irenæus, excepting this "harmony," pleaded by some as dated about A.D. 170,
and by others as between 170 and 180, it would be sheer waste of time and space to prove further
a point admitted on all hands. This position necessarily follows from the preceding one, since
four evangelists could not be selected until four Gospels were recognised. Here, again, Dr.
Giles supports the argument we are building up. He says: "Justin Martyr never once mentions
by name the evangelists Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. This circumstance is of great importance;
for those who assert that our four canonical Gospels are contemporary records of our Saviour's
ministry, ascribe them to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and to no other writers. In this they
are, in a certain sense, consistent; for contemporary writings [? histories] are very rarely
anonymous. If so, how could they be proved to be contemporary? Justin Martyr, it must be remembered,
wrote in 150; but neither he, nor any writer before him, has alluded, in the most remote degree,
to four specific Gospels, bearing the names of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Let those who
think differently produce the passages in which such mention is to be found" ("Christian Records,"
Rev. Dr. Giles, p. 73). Two of these names had, however, emerged a little earlier, being mentioned
as evangelists by Papias, of Hierapolis. His testimony will be fully considered below in establishing
position g.

F. That there is no evidence that the four Gospels mentioned about that date were the same
as those we have now. This brings us to a most important point in our examination; for we now
attack the very key of the Christian position--viz., that, although the Gospels be not mentioned
by name previous to Irenæus, their existence can yet be conclusively proved by quotations from
them, to be found in the writings of the Fathers who lived before Irenæus. And he urges that
"the medium of proof stated in this proposition is, of all others, the most unquestionable,
the least liable to any practices of fraud, and is not diminished by the lapse of ages" ("Evidences,"
pp. 111, 112). The writers brought in evidence are: Barnabas, Clement, Hermas, Ignatius, Polycarp,
Papias, Justin Martyr, Hegesippus, and the epistle from Lyons and Vienne. Before examining
the supposed quotations in as great detail as our space will allow, two or three preliminary
remarks are needed on the value of this offered evidence as a whole.

In the first place, the greater part of the works brought forward as witnesses are themselves
challenged, and their own dates are unknown; their now accepted writings are only the residuum
of a mass of forgeries, and Dr. Giles justly says: "The process of elimination, which gradually
reduced the so-called writings of the first century from two folio volumes to fifty slender
pages, would, in the case of any other profane works, have prepared the inquirer for casting
from him, with disgust, the small remnant, even if not fully convicted of spuriousness; for
there is no other case in record of so wide a disproportion between what is genuine and what
is spurious" ("Christian Records," p. 67). Their testimony is absolutely worthless until they
are themselves substantiated; and from the account given of them above (pp 214-221, and 232-235),
the student is in a position to judge of the value of evidence depending on the Apostolic Fathers.
Professor Norton remarks: "When we endeavour to strengthen this evidence by appealing to the
writings ascribed to Apostolical Fathers, we, in fact, weaken its force. At the very extremity
of the chain of evidence, where it ought to be strongest, we are attaching defective links,
which will bear no weight" ("Genuineness of the Gospels," vol. i., p. 357). Again, supposing
that we admit these witnesses, their repetition of sayings of Christ, or references to his
life, do not--in the absence of quotations specified by them as taken from Gospels written
by Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John--prove that, because similar sayings or actions are recorded
in the present canonical Gospels, therefore, these latter existed in their days, and were in
their hands. Lardner says on this point: "Here is, however, one difficulty, and 'tis a difficulty
which may frequently occur, whilst we are considering these very early writers, who were conversant
with the Apostles, and others who had seen or heard our Lord; and were, in a manner, as well
acquainted with our Saviour's doctrine and history as the Evangelists themselves, unless their
quotations or allusions are very express and clear. The question, then, here is, whether Clement
in these places refers to words of Christ, written and recorded, or whether he reminds the
Corinthians of words of Christ, which he and they might have heard from the Apostles, or other
eye-and-ear-witnesses of our Lord. Le Clerc, in his dissertation on the four Gospels, is of
opinion that Clement refers to written words of our Lord, which were in the hands of the Corinthians,
and well known to them. On the other hand, I find, Bishop Pearson thought, that Clement speaks
of words which he had heard from the Apostles themselves, or their disciples. I certainly make
no question but the three first Gospels were writ before this time. And I am well satisfied
that Clement might refer to our written Gospels, though he does not exactly agree with them
in expression. But whether he does refer to them is not easy to determine concerning a man
who, very probably, knew these things before they were committed to writing; and, even after
they were so, might continue to speak of them, in the same manner he had been wont to do, as
things he was well informed of, without appealing to the Scriptures themselves" ("Credibility,"
pt. II., vol. i., pp. 68-70). Canon Westcott, after arguing that the Apostolic Fathers are
much influenced by the Pauline Epistles, goes on to remark: "Nothing has been said hitherto
of the coincidences between the Apostolic Fathers and the Canonical Gospels. From the nature
of the case, casual coincidences of language cannot be brought forward in the same manner to
prove the use of a history as of a letter. The same facts and words, especially if they be
recent and striking, may be preserved in several narratives. References in the sub-apostolic
age to the discourses or actions of our Lord, as we find them recorded in the Gospels, show,
as far as they go, that what the Gospels relate was then held to be true; but it does not necessarily
follow that they were already in use, and were the actual source of the passages in question.
On the contrary, the mode in which Clement refers to our Lord's teaching--'the Lord said,'
not 'saith'--seems to imply that he was indebted to tradition, and not to any written accounts,
for words most closely resembling those which are still found in our Gospels. The main testimony
of the Apostolic Fathers is, therefore, to the substance, and not to the authenticity, of the
Gospels" ("On the Canon," pp. 51, 52). An examination of the Apostolic Fathers gives us little
testimony as to "the substance of the Gospels;" but the whole passage is here given to show
how much Canon Westcott, writing in defence of the Canon, finds himself obliged to give up
of the position occupied by earlier apologists. Dr. Giles agrees with the justice of these
remarks of Lardner and Westcott. He writes: "The sayings of Christ were, no doubt, treasured
up like household jewels by his disciples and followers. Why, then, may we not refer the quotation
of Christ's words, occurring in the Apostolical Fathers, to an origin of this kind? If we examine
a few of those quotations, the supposition, just stated, will expand into reality.... The same
may be said of every single sentence found in any of the Apostolical Fathers, which, on first
sight, might be thought to be a decided quotation from one of the Gospels according to Matthew,
Mark, Luke, or John. It is impossible to deny the truth of this observation; for we see it
confirmed by the fact that the Apostolical Fathers do actually quote Moses, and other old Testament
writers, by name--'Moses hath said,' 'but Moses says,' etc.--in numerous passages. But we nowhere
meet with the words, 'Matthew hath said in his Gospel,' 'John hath said,' etc. They always
quote, not the words of the Evangelists, but the words of Christ himself directly, which furnishes
the strongest presumption that, though the sayings of Christ were in general vogue, yet the
evangelical histories, into which they were afterwards embodied, were not then in being. But
the converse of this view of the case leads us to the same conclusion. The Apostolical Fathers
quote sayings of Christ which are not found in our Gospels.... There is no proof that our New
Testament was in existence during the lives of the Apostolical Fathers, who, therefore, could
not make citations out of books which they had never seen" ("Christian Records," pp. 51-53).
"There is no evidence that they [the four Gospels] existed earlier than the middle of the second
century, for they are not named by any writer who lived before that time" (Ibid, p. 56). In
searching for evidence of the existence of the Gospels during the earlier period of the Church's
history, Christian apologists have hitherto been content to seize upon a phrase here and there
somewhat resembling a phrase in the canonical Gospels, and to put that forward as a proof that
the Gospels then were the same as those we have now. This rough-and-ready plan must now be
given up, since the most learned Christian writers now agree, with the Freethinkers, that such
a method is thoroughly unsatisfactory.

Yet, again, admitting these writers as witnesses, and allowing that they quote from the same
Gospels, their quotations only prove that the isolated phrases they use were in the Gospels
of their day, and are also in the present ones; and many such cases might occur in spite of
great variations in the remainder of the respective Gospels, and would by no means prove that
the Gospels they used were identical with ours. If Josephus, for instance, had ever quoted
some sentences of Socrates recorded by Plato, that quotation, supposing that Josephus were
reliable, would prove that Plato and Socrates both lived before Josephus, and that Plato wrote
down some of the sayings of Socrates; but it would not prove that a version of Plato in our
hands to-day was identical with that used by Josephus. The scattered and isolated passages
woven in by the Fathers in their works would fail to prove the identity of the Gospels of the
second century with those of the nineteenth, even were they as like parallel passages in the
canonical Gospels as they are unlike them.

It is "important," says the able anonymous writer of "Supernatural Religion," "that we should
constantly bear in mind that a great number of Gospels existed in the early Church which are
no longer extant, and of most of which even the names are lost. We will not here do more than
refer, in corroboration of this fact, to the preliminary statement of the author of the third
Gospel: 'Forasmuch as many ([Greek: polloi]) have taken in hand to set forth a declaration
of those things which are surely believed among us, etc.' It is, therefore, evident that before
our third synoptic was written, many similar works were already in circulation. Looking at
the close similarity of the large portions of the three synoptics, it is almost certain that
many of the [Greek: polloi] here mentioned bore a close analogy to each other, and to our Gospels;
and this is known to have been the case, for instance, amongst the various forms of the 'Gospel
according to the Hebrews,' distinct mention of which we meet with long before we hear anything
of our Gospels. When, therefore, in early writings, we meet with quotations closely resembling,
or, we may add, even identical with passages which are found in our Gospels--the source of
which, however, is not mentioned, nor is any author's name indicated--the similarity, or even
identity, cannot by any means be admitted as evidence that the quotation is necessarily from
our Gospels, and not from some other similar work now no longer extant; and more especially
not when, in the same writings, there are other quotations from apocryphal sources different
from our Gospels. Whether regarded as historical records or as writings embodying the mere
tradition of the early Christians, our Gospels cannot for a moment be recognised as the exclusive
depositaries of the genuine sayings and doings of Jesus; and so far from the common possession
by many works in early times of such words of Jesus, in closely similar form, being either
strange or improbable, the really remarkable phenomena is that such material variation in the
report of the more important historical teaching should exist amongst them. But whilst similarity
to our Gospels in passages quoted by early writers from unnamed sources cannot prove the use
of our Gospels, variation from them would suggest or prove a different origin; and, at least,
it is obvious that quotations which do not agree with our Gospels cannot, in any case, indicate
their existence" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., pp. 217-219).

We will now turn to the witness of Paley's Apostolic Fathers, bearing always in mind the utter
worthlessness of their testimony; worthless as it is, however, it is the only evidence Christians
have to bring forward to prove the identity of their Gospels with those [supposed to have been]
written in the first century. Let us listen to the opinion given by Bishop Marsh: "From the
Epistle of Barnabas, no inference can be deduced that he had read any part of the New Testament.
From the genuine epistle, as it is called, of Clement of Rome, it may be inferred that Clement
had read the first Epistle to the Corinthians. From the Shepherd of Hermas no inference whatsoever
can be drawn. From the Epistles of Ignatius, it may be concluded that he had read St. Paul's
Epistle to the Ephesians, and that there existed in his time evangelical writings, though it
cannot be shown that he has quoted from them. From Polycarp's Epistle to the Philippians, it
appears that he had heard of St. Paul's Epistle to that community, and he quotes a passage
which is in the first Epistle to the Corinthians, and another which is in the Epistle to the
Ephesians; but no positive conclusion can be drawn with respect to any other epistle, or any
of the four Gospels" (Marsh's "Michaelis," vol. i., p. 354, as quoted in Norton's "Genuineness
of the Gospels," vol. i., p. 3). Very heavily does this tell against the authenticity of these
records, for "if the four Gospels and other books were written by those who had been eye-witnesses
of Christ's miracles, and the five Apostolic Fathers had conversed with the Apostles, it is
not to be conceived that they would not have named the actual books themselves which possessed
so high authority, and would be looked up to with so much respect by all the Christians. This
is the only way in which their evidence could be of use to support the authenticity of the
New Testament as being the work of the Apostles; but this is a testimony which the five Apostolical
Fathers fail to supply. There is not a single sentence, in all their remaining works, in which
a clear allusion to the New Testament is to be found" ("Christian Records," Rev. Dr. Giles, p. 50).

Westcott, while claiming in the Apostolic Fathers a knowledge of most of the epistles, writes
very doubtfully as to their knowledge of the Gospels (see above p. 264), and after giving careful
citations of all possible quotations, he sums up thus: "1. No evangelic reference in the Apostolic
Fathers can be referred certainly to a written record. 2. It appears most probable from the
form of the quotations that they were derived from oral tradition. 3. No quotation contains
any element which is not substantially preserved in our Gospels. 4. When the text given differs
from the text of our Gospels it represents a later form of the evangelic tradition. 5. The
text of St. Matthew corresponds more nearly than the other synoptic texts with the quotations
and references as a whole" ("On the Canon," p. 62). There appears to be no proof whatever of
conclusions 3 and 4, but we give them all as they stand. But we will take these Apostolic Fathers
one by one, in the order used by Paley.

BARNABAS. We have already quoted Bishop Marsh and Dr. Giles as regards him. There is "nothing
in this epistle worthy of the name of evidence even of the existence of our Gospels" ("Sup.
Rel.," vol. i., p. 260). The quotation sometimes urged, "There are many called, few chosen,"
is spoken of by Westcott as a "proverbial phrase," and phrases similar in meaning and manner
may be found in iv. Ezra, viii. 3, ix. 15 ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., p. 245); in the latter work
the words occur in a relation similar to that in which we find them in Barnabas; in both the
judgment is described, and in both the moral drawn is that there are many lost and few saved;
it is the more likely that the quotation is taken from the apocryphal work, since many other
quotations are drawn from it throughout the epistle. The quotation "Give to every one that
asketh thee," is not found in the supposed oldest MS., the Codex Sinaiticus, and is a later
interpolation, clearly written in by some transcriber as appropriate to the passage in Barnabas.
The last supposed quotation, that Christ chose men of bad character to be his disciples, that
"he might show that he came not to call the righteous, but sinners," is another clearly later
interpolation, for it jars with the reasoning of Barnabas, and when Origen quotes the passage
he omits the phrase. In a work which "has been written at the request, and is published at
the cost of the Christian Evidence Society," and which may fairly, therefore, be taken as the
opinion of learned, yet most orthodox, Christian opinion, the Rev. Mr. Sanday writes: "The
general result of our examination of the Epistle of Barnabas may, perhaps, be stated thus,
that while not supplying by itself certain and conclusive proof of the use of our Gospels,
still the phenomena accord better with the hypothesis of such a use. This epistle stands in
the second line of the Evidence, and as a witness is rather confirmatory than principal" ("Gospels
in the Second Century," p. 76. Ed. 1876). And this is all that the most modern apologetic criticism
can draw from an epistle of which Paley makes a great display, saying that "if the passage
remarked in this ancient writing had been found in one of St. Paul's Epistles, it would have
been esteemed by every one a high testimony to St. Matthew's Gospel" ("Evidences," p. 113).

CLEMENT OF ROME.--"Tischendorf, who is ever ready to claim the slightest resemblance in language
as a reference to new Testament writings, admits that although this Epistle is rich in quotations
from the Old Testament, and here and there that Clement also makes use of passages from Pauline
Epistles, he nowhere refers to the Gospels" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i. pp. 227, 228). The Christian
Evidence Society, through Mr. Sanday, thus criticises Clement: "Now what is the bearing of
the Epistle of Clement upon the question of the currency and authority of the Synoptic Gospels?
There are two passages of some length which are, without doubt, evangelical quotations, though
whether they are derived from the Canonical Gospels or not may be doubted" ("Gospels in the
Second Century," page 61). After balancing the arguments for and against the first of these
passages, Mr. Sanday concludes: "Looking at the arguments on both sides, so far as we can give
them, I incline, on the whole, to the opinion that Clement is not quoting from our Gospels;
but I am quite aware of the insecure ground on which this opinion rests. It is a nice balance
of probabilities, and the element of ignorance is so large that the conclusion, whatever it
is, must be purely provisional. Anything like confident dogmatism on the subject seems to me
entirely out of place. Very much the same is to be said of the second passage" (Ibid, p. 66).

The quotations in Clement, apparently from some other evangelic work, will be noted under head
h, and these are those cited in Paley.

HERMAS.--Tischendorf relinquishes this work also as evidence for the Gospels. Lardner writes:
"In Hermas are no express citations of any books of the New Testament" ("Credibility," vol.
i. pt. 2, p. 116). He thinks, however, that he can trace "allusions to" "words of Scripture."
Westcott says that "The Shepherd contains no definite quotation from either Old or New Testament"
("On the Canon," p. 197); but he also thinks that Hermas was "familiar with" some records of
"Christ's teaching." Westcott, however, does not admit Hermas as an Apostolic Father at all,
but places him in the middle of the second century. "As regards the direct historical evidence
for the genuineness of the Gospels, it is of no importance. No book is cited in it by name.
There are no evident quotations from the Gospels" (Norton's "Genuineness of the Gospels," vol.
i, pp. 342, 343).

IGNATIUS.--It would be wasted time to trouble about Ignatius at all, after knowing the vicissitudes
through which his supposed works have passed (see ante pp. 217-220); and Paley's references
are such vague "quotations" that they may safely be left to the judgment of the reader. Tischendorf,
claiming two and three phrases in it, says somewhat confusedly: "Though we do not wish to give
to these references a decisive value, and though they do not exclude all doubt as to their
applicability to our Gospels, and more particularly to that of St. John, they nevertheless
undoubtedly bear traces of such a reference" ("When were our Gospels Written," p. 61, Eng.
ed.). This conclusion refers, in Tischendorf, to Polycarp, as well as to Ignatius. In these
Ignatian Epistles, Mr. Sanday only treats the Curetonian Epistles (see ante, p. 218) as genuine,
and in these he finds scarcely any coincidences with the Gospels. The parallel to Matthew x.
16, "Be ye, therefore, wise as serpents and harmless as doves," is doubtful, as it is possible
"that Ignatius may be quoting, not directly from our Gospel, but from one of the original documents
(such as Ewald's hypothetical 'Spruch-Sammlung'), out of which our Gospel was composed" ("Gospels
in the Second Century," p. 78). An allusion to the "star" of Bethlehem may have, "as it appears
to have, reference to the narrative of Matt, ii... [but see, ante, p. 233, where the account
given of the star is widely different from the evangelic notice]. These are (so far as I am
aware) the only coincidences to be found in the Curetonian version" (Ibid, pp. 78, 79).

POLYCARP.--This epistle lies under a heavy weight of suspicion, and has besides little worth
analysing as possible quotations from the Gospels. Paley quotes, "beseeching the all-seeing
God not to lead us into temptation." Why not finish the passage? Because, if he had done so,
the context would have shown that it was not a quotation from a gospel identical with our own--"beseeching
the all-seeing God not to lead us into temptation, as the Lord hath said, The spirit, indeed,
is willing, but the flesh is weak." If this be a quotation at all, it is from some lost gospel,
as these words are nowhere found thus conjoined in the Synoptics.

Thus briefly may these Apostolic Fathers be dismissed, since their testimony fades away as
soon as it is examined, as a mist evaporates before the rays of the rising sun. We will call
up Paley's other witnesses.

PAPIAS.--In the fragment preserved by Eusebius there is no quotation of any kind; the testimony
of Papias is to the names of the authors of two of the Gospels, and will be considered under g.

JUSTIN MARTYR.--We now come to the most important of the supposed witnesses, and, although
students must study the details of the controversy in larger works, we will endeavour to put
briefly before them the main reasons why Freethinkers reject Justin Martyr as bearing evidence
to the authenticity of the present Gospels, and in this résumé we begin by condensing chapter
iii. of "Supernatural Religion", vol. i., pp. 288-433, so far as it bears on our present position.
Justin Martyr is supposed to have died about A.D. 166, having been put to death in the reign
of Marcus Aurelius; he was by descent a Greek, but became a convert to Christianity, strongly
tinged with Judaism. The longer Apology, and the Dialogue with Trypho, are the works chiefly
relied upon to prove the authenticity. The date of the first Apology is probably about A.D.
147; the Dialogue was written later, perhaps between A.D. 150 and 160. In these writings Justin
quotes very copiously from the Old Testament, and he also very frequently refers to facts of
Christian history, and to sayings of Jesus. Of these references, for instance, some fifty occur
in the first Apology, and upwards of seventy in the Dialogue with Trypho; a goodly number,
it will be admitted, by means of which to identify the source from which he quotes. Justin
himself frequently and distinctly says that his information and quotations are derived from
the "Memoirs of the Apostles," but, except upon one occasion, which we shall hereafter consider,
when he indicates Peter, he never mentions an author's name. Upon examination it is found that,
with only one or two brief exceptions, the numerous quotations from these "Memoirs" differ
more or less widely from parallel passages in our Synoptic Gospels, and in many cases differ
in the same respects as similar quotations found in other writings of the second century, the
writers of which are known to have made use of uncanonical Gospels; and further, that these
passages are quoted several times, at intervals, by Justin, with the same variations. Moreover,
sayings of Jesus are quoted from the "Memoirs" which are not found in our Gospels at all, and
facts in the life of Jesus, and circumstances of Christian history, derived from the same source,
not only are not found in our Gospels, but are in contradiction with them. Various theories
have been put forward by Christian apologists to lessen the force of these objections. It has
been suggested that Justin quoted from memory, condensed or combined to suit his immediate
purpose; that the "Memoirs" were a harmony of the Gospels, with additions from some apocryphal
work; that along with our Gospels Justin used apocryphal Gospels; that he made use of our Gospels,
preferring, however, to rely chiefly on an apocryphal one. Results so diverse show how dubious
must be the value of the witness of Justin Martyr. Competent critics almost universally admit
that Justin had no idea of ranking the "Memoirs of the Apostles" among canonical writings.
The word translated "Memoirs" would be more correctly rendered "Recollections," or "Memorabilia,"
and none of these three terms is an appropriate title for works ranking as canonical Gospels.
Great numbers of spurious writings, under the names of apostles, were current in the early
Church, and Justin names no authors for the "Recollections" he quotes from, only saying that
they were composed "by his Apostles and their followers," clearly indicating that he was using
some collective recollections of the Apostles and those who followed them. The word "Gospels,"
in the plural, is only once applied to these "Recollections;" "For the Apostles, in the 'Memoirs'
composed by them, which are called Gospels." "The last expression [Greek: kaleitai euaggelai],
as many scholars have declared, is a manifest interpolation. It is, in all probability, a gloss
on the margin of some old MS. which some copyist afterwards inserted in the text. If Justin
really stated that the 'Memoirs' were called Gospels, it seems incomprehensible that he should
never call them so himself. In no other place in his writings does he apply the plural to them,
but, on the contrary, we find Trypho referring to the 'so-called Gospel,' which he states that
he had carefully read, and which, of course, can only be Justin's 'Memoirs,' and again, in
another part of the same dialogue, Justin quotes passages which are written 'in the Gospel.'
The term 'Gospel' is nowhere else used by Justin in reference to a written record." The public
reading of the Recollections, mentioned by Justin, proves nothing, since many works, now acknowledged
as spurious, were thus read (see ante, pp. 248, 249). Justin does not regard the Recollections
as inspired, attributing inspiration only to prophetic writings, and he accepts them as authentic
solely because the events they narrate are prophesied of in the Old Testament. The omission
of any author's name is remarkable, since, in quoting from the Old Testament, he constantly
refers to the author by name, or to the book used; but in the very numerous quotations, supposed
to be from the Gospels, he never does this, save in one single instance, mentioned below, when
he quotes Peter. On the theory that he had our four Gospels before him, this is the more singular,
since he would naturally have distinguished one from the other. The only writing in the New
Testament referred to by name is the Apocalypse, by "a certain man whose name was John, one
of the apostles of Christ," and it is impossible that John should be thus mentioned, if Justin
had already been quoting from a Gospel bearing his name under the general title of Recollections.
Justin clearly quotes from a written source and excludes oral tradition, saying that in the
Recollections is recorded "everything that concerns our Saviour Christ." (The proofs that Justin
quotes from records other than the Gospels will be classed under position h, and are here omitted.)
Justin knows nothing of the shepherds of the plain, and the angelic appearance to them, nor
of the star guiding the wise men to the place where Jesus was, although he relates the story
of the birth, and the visit of the wise men. Two short passages in Justin are identical with
parallel passages in Matthew, but "it cannot be too often repeated, that the mere coincidence
of short historical sayings in two works by no means warrants the conclusion that the one is
dependent on the other." In the first Apology, chaps, xv., xvi., and xvii. are composed almost
entirely of examples of Christ's teaching, and with the exception of these two brief passages,
not one quotation agrees verbally with the canonical Gospels. We have referred to one instance
wherein the name of Peter is mentioned in connection with the Recollections. Justin says: "The
statement also that he (Jesus) changed the name of Peter, one of the Apostles, and that this
is also written in his 'Memoirs,'" etc. This refers the "Memoirs" to Peter, and it is suggested
that it is, therefore, a reference to the Gospel of Mark, Mark having been supposed to have
written his Gospel under the direction of Peter. There was a "Gospel according to Peter" current
in the early Church, probably a variation from the Gospel of the Hebrews, so highly respected
and so widely used by the primitive writers. It is very probable that this is the work to which
Justin so often refers, and that it originally bore the simple title of "The Gospel," or the
"Recollections of Peter." A version of this Gospel was also known as the "Gospel According
to the Apostles," a title singularly like the "Recollections of the Apostles" by Justin. Seeing
that in Justin's works his quotations, although so copious, do not agree with parallel passages
in our Gospels, we may reasonably conclude that "there is no evidence that he made use of any
of our Gospels, and he cannot, therefore, even be cited to prove their very existence, and
much less the authenticity and character of records whose authors he does not once name." Passing
from this case, ably worked out by this learned and clever writer (and we earnestly recommend
our readers, if possible, to study his careful analysis for themselves, since he makes the
whole question thoroughly intelligible to English readers, and gives them evidence whereby
they can form their own judgments, instead of accepting ready-made conclusions), we will examine
Canon Westcott's contention. He admits that the difficulties perplexing the evidence of Justin
are "great;" that there are "additions to the received narrative, and remarkable variations
from its text, which, in some cases, are both repeated by Justin and found also in other writings"
("On the Canon," p. 98). We regret to say that Dr. Westcott, in laying the case before his
readers, somewhat misleads them, although, doubtless, unintentionally. He speaks of Justin
telling us that "Christ was descended from Abraham through Jacob, Judah, Phares, Jesse, and
David," and omits the fact that Justin traces the descent to Mary alone, and knows nothing
as to a descent traced to Joseph, as in both Matthew and Luke (see below, under h). He speaks
of Justin mentioning wise men "guided by a star," forgetting that Justin says nothing of the
guidance, but only writes: "That he should arise like a star from the seed of Abraham, Moses
showed beforehand.... Accordingly, when a star rose in heaven at the time of his birth, as
is recorded in the 'Memoirs' of his Apostles, the Magi from Arabia, recognising the sign by
this, came and worshipped him" ("Dial.," ch. cvi.). He speaks of Justin recording "the singing
of the Psalm afterwards" (after the last supper), omitting that Justin only says generally
("Dial.," ch. cvi., to which Dr. Westcott refers us) that "when living with them (Christ) sang
praises to God." But as we hereafter deal with these discrepancies, we need not dwell on them
now, only warning our readers that since even such a man as Dr. Westcott thus misrepresents
facts, it will be well never to accept any inferences drawn from such references as these without
comparing them with the original. One of the chief difficulties to the English reader is to
get a reliable translation. To give but a single instance. In the version of Justin here used
(that published by T. Clark, Edinburgh), we find in the "Dialogue," ch. ciii., the following
passage: "His sweat fell down like drops of blood while he was praying." And this is referred
to by Canon Westcott (p. 104) as a record of the "bloody sweat." Yet, in the original, there
is no word analogous to "of blood;" the passage runs: "sweat as drops fell down," and it is
recorded by Justin as a proof that the prophecy, "my bones are poured out like water" was fulfilled
in Christ. The clumsy endeavour to create a likeness to Luke xxii. 44 destroys Justin's argument.
Further on (p. 113) Dr. Westcott admits that the words "of blood" are not found in Justin;
but it is surely misleading, under these circumstances, to say that Justin mentions "the bloody
sweat." Westcott only maintains seven passages in the whole of Justin's writings, wherein he
distinctly quotes from the "Memoirs;" i.e., only seven that can be maintained as quotations
from the canonical Gospels--the contention being that the "Memoirs" are the Gospels. He says
truly, if naively, "The result of a first view of these passages is striking." Very striking,
indeed; for, "of the seven, five agree verbally with the text of St. Matthew or St. Luke, exhibiting,
indeed, three slight various readings not elsewhere found, but such as are easily explicable.
The sixth is a condensed summary of words related by St. Matthew; the seventh alone presents
an important variation in the text of a verse, which is, however, otherwise very uncertain"
(pp. 130, 131. The italics are our own). That is, there are only seven distinct quotations,
and all of these, save two, are different from our Gospels. The whole of Dr. Westcott's analysis
of these passages is severely criticised in "Supernatural Religion," and in the edition of
1875 of Dr. Westcott's book, from which we quote, some of the expressions he previously used
are a little modified. The author of "Supernatural Religion" justly says: "The striking result,
to summarise Canon Westcott's own words, is this. Out of seven professed quotations from the
'Memoirs,' in which he admits we may expect to find the exact language preserved, five present
three variations; one is a compressed summary, and does not agree verbally at all; and the
seventh presents an important variation" (vol. i., p. 394).

Dr. Giles speaks very strongly against Paley's distortion of Justin Martyr's testimony, complaining:
"The works of Justin Martyr do not fall in the way of one in a hundred thousand of our countrymen.
How is it, then, to be deprecated that erroneous statements should be current about him! How
is it to be censured that his testimony should be changed, and he should be made to speak a
falsehood!" ("Christian Records," p. 71). Dr. Giles then argues that Justin would have certainly
named the books and their authors had they been current and reverenced in his time; that there
were numberless Gospels current at that date; that Justin mentions occurrences that are only
found related in such apocryphal Gospels. He then compares seventeen passages in Justin Martyr
with parallel passages in the Gospels, and concludes that Justin "gives us Christ's sayings
in their traditionary forms, and not in the words which are found in our four Gospels." We
will select two, to show his method of criticising, translating the Greek, instead of giving
it, as he does, in the original. In the Apology, ch. xv., Justin writes: "If thy right eye
offend thee, cut it out, for it is profitable for thee to enter into the kingdom of heaven
with one eye, than having two to be thrust into the everlasting fire." 9: 'And if thine eye
offend thee, pluck it out and cast it from thee; it is better for thee to enter into life with
one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into hell-fire.' And it bears an equal likeness
to Mark ix. (pp. 83, 84). "I came not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance." "In
this only instance is there a perfect agreement between the words of Justin and the canonical
Gospels, three of which, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, give the same saying of Christ in the same
words. A variety of thoughts here rush upon the mind. Are these three Gospels based upon a
common document? If so, is not Justin Martyr's citation drawn from the same anonymous document,
rather than from the three Gospels, seeing he does not name them? If, on the other hand, Justin
has cited them accurately in this instance, why has he failed to do so in the others? For no
other reason than that traditionary sayings are generally thus irregularly exact or inexact,
and Justin, citing from them, has been as irregularly exact as they were" (Ibid, p. 85). "The
result to which a perusal of his works will lead is of the gravest character. He will be found
to quote nearly two hundred sentiments or sayings of Christ; but makes hardly a single clear
allusion to all those circumstances of time or place which give so much interest to Christ's
teaching, as recorded in the four Gospels. The inference is that he quotes Christ's sayings
as delivered by tradition or taken down in writing before the four Gospels were compiled" (Ibid,
pp. 89, 90). Paley and Lardner both deal with Justin somewhat briefly, calling every passage
in his works resembling slightly any passage in the Gospels a "quotation;" in both cases only
ignorance of Justin's writings can lead any reader to assent to the inferences they draw.

HEGESIPPUS was a Jewish Christian, who, according to Eusebius, flourished about A.D. 166. Soter
is said to have succeeded Anicetus in the bishopric of Rome in that year, and Hegesippus appears
to have been in Rome during the episcopacy of both. He travelled about from place to place,
and his testimony to the Gospels is that "in every city the doctrine prevails according to
what is declared by the law, and the prophets, and the Lord" ("Eccles. Hist," bk. iv., ch.
22). Further, Eusebius quotes the story of the death of James, the Apostle, written by Hegesippus,
and in this James is reported to have said to the Jews: "Why do ye now ask me respecting Jesus,
the Son of Man? He is now sitting in the heavens, on the right hand of great power, and is
about to come on the clouds of heaven." And when he is being murdered, he prays, "O Lord God
and Father forgive them, for they know not what they do" (see "Eccles. Hist.," bk. ii., ch.
23). The full absurdity of regarding this as a testimony to the Gospels will be seen when it
is remembered that it is implied thereby that James, the brother and apostle of Christ, knew
nothing of his words until he read them in the Gospels, and that he was murdered before the
Gospel of Luke, from which alone he could quote the prayer of Jesus, is thought, by most Christians,
to have been written. One other fragment of Hegesippus is preserved by Stephanus Gobarus, wherein
Hegesippus, speaking against Paul's assertion "that eye hath not seen, nor ear heard," opposes
to it the saying of the Lord, "Blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears that hear."
This is paralleled by Matt. xiii. 16 and Luke x. 23. "We need not point out that the saying
referred to by Hegesippus, whilst conveying the same sense as that in the two Gospels, differs
as materially from them as they do from each other, and as we might expect a quotation taken
from a different, though kindred, source, like the Gospel according to the Hebrews, to do"
("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., p. 447). Why does not Paley tell us that Eusebius writes of him, not
that he quoted from the Gospels, but that "he also states some particulars from the Gospel
of the Hebrews and from the Syriac, and particularly from the Hebrew language, showing that
he himself was a convert from the Hebrews. Other matters he also records as taken from the
unwritten tradition of the Jews" ("Eccles. Hist.," bk. iv., ch 22). Here, then, we have the
source of the quotations in Hegesippus, and yet Paley conceals this, and deliberately speaks
of him as referring to our Gospel of Matthew!

EPISTLE OF THE CHURCHES OF LYONS AND VIENNE.--Paley quietly dates this A.D. 170, although the
persecution it describes occurred in A.D. 177 (see ante, pp. 257, 258). The "exact references
to the Gospels of Luke and John and to the Acts of the Apostles," spoken of by Paley ("Evidences,"
p. 125), are not easy to find. Westcott says: "It contains no reference by name to any book
of the New Testament, but its coincidences of language with the Gospels of St. Luke and St.
John, with the Acts of the Apostles, with the Epistles of St. Paul to the Romans, Corinthians
(?), Ephesians, Philippians, and the First to Timothy, with the first Catholic Epistles of
St. Peter and St. John, and with the Apocalypse, are indisputable" ("On the Canon," p. 336).
Unfortunately, neither Paley nor Dr. Westcott refer us to the passages in question, Paley quoting
only one. We will, therefore, give one of these at full length, leaving our readers to judge
of it as an "exact reference:" "Vattius Epagathus, one of the brethren who abounded in the
fulness of the love of God and man, and whose walk and conversation had been so unexceptionable,
though he was only young, shared in the same testimony with the elder Zacharias. He walked
in all the commandments and righteousness of the Lord blameless, full of love to God and his
neighbour" ("Eusebius," bk. v., chap. i). This is, it appears, an "exact reference" to Luke
i. 6, and we own we should not have known it unless it had been noted in "Supernatural Religion."
Tischendorf, on the other hand, refers the allusion to Zacharias to the Protevangelium of James
("Sup. Rel.," vol. ii., p. 202).

The second "exact reference" is, that Vattius had "the Spirit more abundantly than Zacharias;"
"such an unnecessary and insidious comparison would scarcely have been made had the writer
known our Gospel and regarded it as inspired Scripture" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. ii., p. 204). The
quotation "that the day would come when everyone that slayeth you will think he is doing God
a service," is one of those isolated sayings referred to Christ which might be found in any
account of his works, or might have been handed down by tradition. This epistle is the last
witness called by Paley, prior to Irenæus, and might, indeed, fairly be regarded as contemporary
with him.

Although Paley does not allude to the "Clementines," books falsely ascribed to Clement of Rome,
these are sometimes brought to prove the existence of the Gospels in the second century. But
they are useless as witnesses, from the fact that the date at which they were themselves written
is a matter of dispute. "Critics variously date the composition of the original Recognitions
from about the middle of the second century to the end of the third, though the majority are
agreed in placing them, at least, in the latter century" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. ii., p. 5). "It
is unfortunate that there are not sufficient materials for determining the date of the Clementine
Homilies" ("Gospels in the Second Century," Rev. W. Sanday, p. 161). Part of the Clementines,
called the "Recognitions," is useless as a basis for argument, for these "are only extant in
a Latin translation by Rufinus, in which the quotations from the Gospels have evidently been
assimilated to the canonical text which Rufinus himself uses" (Ibid). Of the rest, "we are
struck at once by the small amount of exact coincidence, which is considerably less than that
which is found in the quotations from the Old Testament" (Ibid, p. 168). "In the Homilies there
are very numerous quotations of expressions of Jesus, and of Gospel History, which are generally
placed in the mouth of Peter, or introduced with such formula as 'The teacher said,' 'Jesus
said,' 'He said,' 'The prophet said,' but in no case does the author name the source from which
these sayings and quotations are derived.... De Wette says, 'The quotations of evangelical
works and histories in the pseudo-Clementine writings, from their free and unsatisfactory nature,
permit only uncertain conclusions as to their written source.' Critics have maintained very
free and conflicting views regarding that source. Apologists, of course, assert that the quotations
in the Homilies are taken from our Gospels only. Others ascribe them to our Gospels, with a
supplementary apocryphal work, the Gospel according to the Hebrews, or the Gospel according
to Peter. Some, whilst admitting a subsidiary use of some of our Gospels, assert that the author
of the Homilies employs, in preference, the Gospel according to Peter; whilst others, recognising
also the similarity of the phenomena presented by these quotations with those of Justin's,
conclude that the author does not quote our Gospels at all, but makes use of the Gospel according
to Peter, or the Gospel according to the Hebrews. Evidence permitting of such divergent conclusions
manifestly cannot be of a decided character" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. ii., pp. 6, 7).

On Basilides (teaching c. A.D. 135) and Valentinus (A.D. 140), two of the early Gnostic teachers,
we need not delay, for there is scarcely anything left of their writings, and all we know of
them is drawn from the writings of their antagonists; it is claimed that they knew and made
use of the canonical Gospels, and Canon Westcott urges this view of Basilides, but the writer
of "Supernatural Religion" characterises this plea "as unworthy of a scholar, and only calculated
to mislead readers who must generally be ignorant of the actual facts of the case" (vol. ii.,
p. 42). Basilides says that he received his doctrine from Glaucias, the "interpreter of Peter,"
and "it is apparent, however, that Basilides, in basing his doctrines on these apocryphal books
as inspired, and upon tradition, and in having a special Gospel called after his own name,
which, therefore, he clearly adopts as the exponent of his ideas of Christian truth, absolutely
ignores the canonical Gospels altogether, and not only does not offer any evidence for their
existence, but proves that he did not recognise any such works as of authority. Therefore,
there is no ground whatever for Tischendorf's assumption that the Commentary of Basilides 'On
the Gospel' was written upon our Gospels, but that idea is, on the contrary, negatived in the
strongest way by all the facts of the case" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. ii., pp. 45, 46). Both with
this ancient heretic, as with Valentinus, it is impossible to distinguish what is ascribed
to him from what is ascribed to his followers, and thus evidence drawn from either of them
is weaker even than usual.

Marcion, the greatest heretic of the second century, ought to prove a useful witness to the
Christians if the present Gospels had been accepted in his time as canonical. He was the son
of the Christian Bishop of Sinope, in Pontus, and taught in Rome for some twenty years, dating
from about A.D. 140. Only one Gospel was acknowledged by him, and fierce has been the controversy
as to what this Gospel was. It is only known to us through his antagonists, who generally assert
that the Gospel used by him was the third Synoptic, changed and adapted to suit his heretical
views. Paley says, "This rash and wild controversialist published a recension or chastised
edition of St. Luke's Gospel" ("Evidences," p. 167), but does not condescend to give us the
smallest reason for so broad an assertion. This question has, however, been thoroughly debated
among German critics, the one side maintaining that Marcion mutilated Luke's Gospel, the other
that Marcion's Gospel was earlier than Luke's, and that Luke's was made from it; while some,
again, maintained that both were versions of an older original. From this controversy we may
conclude that there was a strong likeness between Marcion's Gospel and the third Synoptic,
and that it is impossible to know which is the earlier of the two. The resolution of the question
is made hopeless by the fact that "the principal sources of our information regarding Marcion's
Gospel are the works of his most bitter denouncers Tertullian and Epiphanius" ("Sup. Rel.,"
vol. ii., p. 88). "At the very best, even if the hypothesis that Marcion's Gospel was a mutilated
Luke were established, Marcion affords no evidence in favour of the authenticity or trustworthy
character of our third Synoptic. His Gospel was nameless, and his followers repudiated the
idea of its having been written by Luke; and regarded even as the earliest testimony for the
existence of Luke's Gospel, that testimony is not in confirmation of its genuineness and reliability,
but, on the contrary, condemns it as garbled and interpolated" (Ibid, pp. 146, 147).

It is scarcely worth while to refer to the supposed evidence of the "Canon of Muratori," since
the date of this fragment is utterly unknown. In the year 1740 Muratori published this document
in a collection of Italian antiquities, stating that he had found it in the Ambrosian library
at Milan, and that he believed that the MS. from which he took it had been in existence about
1000 years. It is not known by whom the original was written, and it bears no date: it is but
a fragment, commencing: "at which, nevertheless, he was present, and thus he placed it. Third
book of the Gospel according to Luke." Further on it speaks of "the fourth of the Gospels of
John." The value of the evidence of an anonymous fragment of unknown date is simply nil. "It
is by some affirmed to be a complete treatise on the books received by the Church, from which
fragments have been lost; while others consider it a mere fragment itself. It is written in
Latin, which by some is represented as most corrupt, whilst others uphold it as most correct.
The text is further rendered almost unintelligible by every possible inaccuracy of orthography
and grammar, which is ascribed diversely to the transcriber, to the translator, and to both.
Indeed, such is the elastic condition of the text, resulting from errors and obscurity of every
imaginable description, that, by means of ingenious conjectures, critics are able to find in
it almost any sense they desire. Considerable difference of opinion exists as to the original
language of the fragment, the greater number of critics maintaining that the composition is
a translation from the Greek, while others assert it to have been originally written in Latin.
Its composition is variously attributed to the Church of Africa, and to a member of the Church
in Rome" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. ii., pp. 238, 239). On a disputable scrap of this kind no argument
can be based; there is no evidence even to show that the thing was in existence at all until
Muratori published it; it is never referred to by any early writer, nor is there a scintilla
of evidence that it was known to the early Church.

After a full and searching analysis of all the documents, orthodox and heretical, supposed
to have been written in the first two centuries after Christ, the author of "Supernatural Religion"
thus sums up:--"After having exhausted the literature and the testimony bearing on the point,
we have not found a single distinct trace of any one of those Gospels during the first century
and a half after the death of Jesus.... Any argument for the mere existence of our Synoptics
based upon their supposed rejection by heretical leaders and sects has the inevitable disadvantage,
that the very testimony which would show their existence would oppose their authenticity. There
is no evidence of their use by heretical leaders, however, and no direct reference to them
by any writer, heretical or orthodox, whom we have examined" (vol. ii., pp, 248, 249). Nor
is the fact of this blank absence of evidence of identity all that can be brought to bear in
support of our proposition, for there is another fact that tells very heavily against the identity
of the now accepted Gospels with those that were current in earlier days, namely, the noteworthy
charge brought against the Christians that they changed and altered their sacred books; the
orthodox accused the unorthodox of varying the Scriptures, and the heretics retorted the charge
with equal pertinacity. The Ebionites maintained that the Hebrew Gospel of Matthew was the
only authentic Gospel, and regarded the four Greek Gospels as unreliable. The Marcionites admitted
only the Gospel resembling that of Luke, and were accused by the orthodox of having altered
that to suit themselves. Celsus, writing against Christianity, formulates the charge: "Some
believers, like men driven by drunkenness to commit violence on themselves, have altered the
Gospel history, since its first composition, three times, four times, and oftener, and have
re-fashioned it, so as to be able to deny the objections made against it" ("Origen Cont. Celsus,"
bk. ii., chap. 27, as quoted by Norton, p. 63). Origen admits "that there are those who have
altered the Gospels," but pleads that it has been done by heretics, and that this "is no reproach
against true Christianity" (Ibid). Only, most reverend Father of the Church, if heretics accuse
orthodox, and orthodox accuse heretics, of altering the Gospels, how are we to be sure that
they have come down unaltered to us? Clement of Alexandria notes alterations that had been
made. Dionysius, of Corinth, complaining of the changes made in his own writings, bears witness
to this same fact: "It is not, therefore, matter of wonder if some have also attempted to adulterate
the sacred writings of the Lord, since they have attempted the same in other works that are
not to be compared with these" ("Eusebius," bk. iv., ch. 23). (Lib. 33, ch. 3, as quoted and
translated in "Diegesis," pp. 61, 62).

The truth is, that in those days, when books were only written, the widest door was opened
to alterations, additions, and omissions; incidents or remarks written, perhaps, in the margin
of the text by one transcriber, were transferred into the text itself by the next copyist,
and were thereafter indistinguishable from the original matter. In this way the celebrated
text of the three witnesses (1 John, v. 7) is supposed to have crept into the text. Dealing
with this, in reference to the New Testament, Eichhorn points out that it was easy to alter
a manuscript in transcribing it, and that, as manuscripts were written for individual use,
such alterations were considered allowable, and that the altered manuscript, being copied in
its turn, such changes passed into circulation unnoticed. Owners of manuscripts added to them
incidents of the life of Christ, or any of his sayings, which they had heard of, and which
were not recorded in their own copies, and thus the story grew and grew, and additional legends
were incorporated with it, until the historical basis became overlaid with myth. The vast number
of readings in the New Testament, no less--according to Dr. Angus, one of the present Revision
Committee--than 100,000, prove the facility with which variations were introduced into MSS.
by those who had charge of them. In heated and angry controversy between different schools
of monks appeals were naturally made to the authority of the Scriptures, and what more likely--indeed
more certain--than that these monks should introduce variations into their MS. copies favouring
the positions for which they were severally contending?

The most likely way in which the Gospels grew into their present forms is, that the various
traditions relating to Christ were written down in different places for the instruction of
catechumens, and that these, passing from hand to hand, and mouth to mouth, grew into a large
mass of disjointed stories, common to many churches. This mass was gradually sifted, arranged,
moulded into historical shape, which should fit into the preconceived notions of the Messiah,
and thus the four Gospels gradually grew into their present form, and were accepted on all
hands as the legacy of the apostolic age. No careful reader can avoid noticing the many coincidences
of expression between the three synoptics, and deducing from these coincidences the conclusion
that one narrative formed the basis of the three histories. Ewald supposes the existence of
a Spruchsammlung--collected sayings of Christ--but such a collection is not enough to explain
the phenomena we refer to. Dr. Davidson says: "The rudiments of an original oral Gospel were
formed in Jerusalem, in the bosom of the first Christian Church; and the language of it must
have been Aramæan, since the members consisted of Galileans, to whom that tongue was vernacular.
It is natural to suppose that they were accustomed to converse with one another on the life,
actions, and doctrines of their departed Lord, dwelling on the particulars that interested
them most, and rectifying the accounts given by one another, where such accounts were erroneous,
or seriously defective. The Apostles, who were eye-witnesses of the public life of Christ,
could impart correctness to the narratives, giving them a fixed character in regard to authenticity
and form. In this manner an original oral Gospel in Aramæan was formed. We must not, however,
conceive of it as put into the shape of any of our present Gospels, or as being of like extent;
but as consisting of leading particulars in the life of Christ, probably the most striking
and the most affecting, such as would leave the best impression on the minds of the disciples.
The incidents and sayings connected with their Divine Master naturally assumed a particular
shape from repetition, though it was simply a rudimental one. They were not compactly linked
in regular or systematic sequence. They were the oral germ and essence of a Gospel, rather
than a proper Gospel itself, at least, according to our modern ideas of it. But the Aramæan
language was soon laid aside. When Hellenists evinced a disposition to receive Christianity,
and associated themselves with the small number of Palestinian converts, Greek was necessarily
adopted. As the Greek-speaking members far out-numbered the Aramæan-speaking brethren, the
oral Gospel was put into Greek. Henceforward Greek, the language of the Hellenists, became
the medium of instruction. The truths and facts, before repeated in Hebrew, were now generally
promulgated in Greek by the apostles and their converts. The historical cyclus, which had been
forming in the Church at Jerusalem, assumed a determinate character in the Greek tongue" ("Introduction
to the New Testament," by S. Davidson, LL.D., p. 405. Ed. 1848). Thus we find learned Christians
obliged to admit an uninspired collection as the basis of the inspired Gospel, and laying down
a theory which is entirely incompatible with the idea that the Synoptic Gospels were written
by Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Our Gospels are degraded into versions of an older Gospel, instead
of being the inspired record of contemporaries, speaking "that we do know."

Canon Westcott writes of the three Synoptic Gospels, that "they represent, as is shown by their
structure, a common basis, common materials, treated in special ways. They evidently contain
only a very small selection from the words and works of Christ, and yet their contents are
included broadly in one outline. Their substance is evidently much older than their form....
The only explanation of the narrow and definite limit within which the evangelic history (exclusive
of St. John's Gospel) is confined, seems to be that a collection of representative words and
works was made by an authoritative body, such as the Twelve, at a very early date, and that
this, which formed the basis of popular teaching, gained exclusive currency, receiving only
subordinate additions and modifications. This Apostolic Gospel--the oral basis, as I have endeavoured
to show elsewhere, of the Synoptic narratives--dates unquestionably from the very beginning
of the Christian society" ("On the Canon," preface, pp. xxxviii., xxxix). Mr. Sanday speaks
of the "original documents out of which our Gospel was composed" ("Gospels in the Second Century,"
page 78), and he writes: "Doubtless light would be thrown upon the question if we only knew
what was the common original of the two Synoptic texts" (Ibid, p. 65). "The first three Gospels
of our Canon are remarkably alike, their writers agree in relating the same thing, not only
in the same manner, but likewise in the very words, as must be evident to every common reader
who has paid the slightest attention to the subject.... [Here follow a number of parallel passages
from the three synoptics.] The agreement between the three evangelists in these extracts is
remarkable, and leads to the question how such coincidences could arise between works which,
from the first years of Christianity until the beginning of the seventeenth century, were understood
to be perfectly independent, and to have had each a separate and independent origin. The answer
to this question may at last, after more than a hundred years of discussion, be given with
tolerable certainty, if we are allowed to judge of this subject according to the rules of reason
and common sense, by which all other such difficulties are resolved. To decide between the
two is no longer difficult. No one will now admit that either of the four evangelists has copied
from the other three, 1. Because in neither of the four is there the slightest notice of the
others. 2. Because, if either of the evangelists may be thought, from the remarkable similarity
of any particular part of his narrative, to have copied out of either of the other Gospels,
we immediately light upon so many other passages, wholly inconsistent with what the other three
have related on the same subject, that we immediately ask why he has not copied from the others
on those points also. It only remains, therefore, for us to infer that there was a common source,
first traditional and then written--the [Greek: Apomnemoneumata], in short, or 'Memorials,'
etc., of Justin Martyr, and that from this source the four canonical Gospels, together with
thirty or forty others, many of which are still in existence, were, at various periods of early
Christianity, compiled by various writers" ("Christian Records," Dr. Giles, pp. 266, 270, 271).
Dean Alford puts forward a somewhat similar theory; he considers that the oral teaching of
the apostles to catechumens and others, the simple narrative of facts relating to Christ, gradually
grew into form and was written down, and that this accounts for the marked similarity of some
passages in the different Gospels. He says:--"I believe, then, that the Apostles, in virtue
not merely of their having been eye-and-ear witnesses of the Evangelic history, but especially
of their office, gave to the various Churches their testimony in a narrative of facts, such
narrative being modified in each case by the individual mind of the Apostle himself, and his
sense of what was requisite for the particular community to which he was ministering.... It
would be easy and interesting to follow the probable origin and growth of this cycle of narratives
of the words and deeds of our Lord in the Church at Jerusalem, for both the Jews and the Hellenists--the
latter under such teachers as Philip and Stephen--commissioned and authenticated by the Apostles.
In the course of such a process some portions would naturally be written down by private believers
for their own use, or that of friends. And as the Church spread to Samaria, Caesarea, and Antioch,
the want would be felt in each of those places of similar cycles of oral teaching, which, when
supplied, would thenceforward belong to, and be current in, those respective Churches. And
these portions of the Evangelic history, oral or partially documentary, would be adopted under
the sanction of the Apostles, who were as in all things, so especially in this, the appointed
and divinely-guided overseers of the whole Church. This common substratum of Apostolic teachings--never
formally adopted by all, but subject to all the varieties of diction and arrangement, addition
and omission, incident to transmission through many individual minds, and into many different
localities--I believe to have been the original source of the common part of our three Gospels"
("Greek Test.," Dean Alford, vol. i., Prolegomena, ch. i., sec. 3, par. 6; ed. 1859. The italics
are Dean Alford's).

Eichhorn's theory of the growth of the Gospels is one very generally accepted; he considers
that the present Gospels were not in common circulation before the end of the second century,
and that before that time other Gospels were in common use, differing considerably from each
other, but resting on a common foundation of historical fact; all these, he thinks, were versions
of an "original Gospel," a kind of rough outline of Christ's life and discourses, put together
without method or plan, and one of these would be the "Memoirs of the Apostles," of which Justin
Martyr speaks. The Gospels, as we have them, are careful compilations made from these earlier
histories, and we notice that, at the end of the second, and the beginning of the third, centuries,
the leaders of the Church endeavour to establish the authority of the four more methodically
arranged Gospels, so as to check the reception of other Gospels, which were relied upon by
heretics in their controversies.

Strauss gives a careful resume of the various theories of the formation of the Gospels held
by learned men, and shows how the mythic theory was gradually developed and strengthened; "according
to George, mythus is the creation of a fact out of an idea" ("Life of Jesus," Strauss, vol.
i., p. 42; ed. 1846), and the mythic theory supposes that the ideas of the Messiah were already
in existence, and that the story of the Gospels grew up by the translation of these ideas into
facts: "Many of the legends respecting him [Jesus] had not to be newly invented; they already
existed in the popular hope of the Messiah, having been mostly derived, with various modifications,
from the Old Testament, and had merely to be transferred to Jesus, and accommodated to his
character and doctrines. In no case could it be easier for the person who first added any new
feature to the description of Jesus, to believe himself its genuineness, since his argument
would be: Such and such things must have happened to the Messiah; Jesus was the Messiah; therefore,
such and such things happened to him" (Ibid, pp. 81, 82). "It is not, however, to be imagined
that any one individual seated himself at his table to invent them out of his own head, and
write them down as he would a poem; on the contrary, these narratives, like all other legends,
were fashioned by degrees, by steps which can no longer be traced; gradually acquired consistency,
and at length received a fixed form in our written Gospels" (Ibid, p. 35). From the considerations
here adduced--the lack of quotations from our Gospels in the earliest Christian writers, both
orthodox and heretical; the accusations against each made by the other of introducing chants
and modifications in the Gospels; the facility with which MSS. were altered before the introduction
of printing; the coincidences between the Gospels, showing that they are drawn from a common
source; from all these facts we finally conclude that there is no evidence that the Four Gospels
mentioned about that date (A.D. 180) were the same as those we have now.

G. That there is evidence that two of them were not the same. "The testimony of Papias is of
great interest and importance in connection with our inquiry, inasmuch as he is the first ecclesiastical
writer who mentions the tradition that Matthew and Mark composed written records of the life
and teaching of Jesus; but no question has been more continuously contested than that of the
identity of the works to which he refers with our actual Canonical Gospels. Papias was Bishop
of Hierapolis, in Phrygia, in the first half of the second century, and is said to have suffered
martyrdom under Marcus Aurelius about A.D. 164-167. About the middle of the second century
he wrote a work in five books, entitled 'Exposition of the Lord's Oracles,' which, with the
exception of a few fragments preserved to us chiefly by Eusebius and Irenæus, is unfortunately
no longer extant. This work was less based on written records of the teaching of Jesus than
on that which Papias had been able to collect from tradition, which he considered more authentic,
for, like his contemporary, Hegesippus, Papias avowedly prefers tradition to any written works
with which he was acquainted" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., pp. 449, 450). Before giving the testimony
attributed to Papias, we must remark two or three points which will influence our judgment
concerning him. Paley speaks of him, on the authority of Irenæus, as "a hearer of John, and
companion of Polycarp" ("Evidences," p. 121); but Paley omits to tell us that Eusebius points
out that Irenæus was mistaken in this statement, and that Papias "by no means asserts that
he was a hearer and an eye-witness of the holy Apostles, but informs us that he received the
doctrines of faith from their intimate friends" ("Eccles. Hist.", bk. iii., ch. 39). Eusebius
subjoins the passage from Papias, which states that "if I met with any one who had been a follower
of the elders anywhere, I made it a point to inquire what were the declarations of the elders:
what was said by Andrew, Peter, or Philip; what by Thomas, James, John, Matthew, or any other
of the disciples of our Lord; what was said by Aristion, and the Presbyter John, disciples
of the Lord" (Ibid). Seeing that Papias died between A.D. 164 and 167, and that the disciples
of Jesus were Jesus' own contemporaries, any disciple that Papias heard, when a boy, would
have reached a portentous age, and, between the age of the disciple and the youth of Papias,
the reminiscences would probably be of a somewhat hazy character. It is to Papias that we owe
the wonderful account of the vines (ante, p. 234) of the kingdom of God, given by Irenæus,
who states that "these things are borne witness to in writing by Papias, the hearer of John,
and a companion of Polycarp.... And he says, in addition, 'Now these things are credible to
believers.' And he says that 'when the traitor, Judas, did not give credit to them, and put
the question, How then can things about to bring forth so abundantly be wrought by the Lord?
the Lord declared, They who shall come to these (times) shall see'" ("Irenæus Against Heresies,"
bk. v., ch. 33, sec. 4). The recollections of Papias scarcely seem valuable as to quality.
Next we note that Papias could scarcely put a very high value on the Apostolic writings, since
he states that "I do not think that I derived so much benefit from books as from the living
voice of those that are still surviving" ("Eccles. Hist," bk. iii., ch. 39), i.e., of those
who had been followers of the Apostles. How this remark of Papias tallies with the supposed
respect shown to the Canonical Gospels by primitive writers, it is for Christian apologists
to explain. We then mark that we have no writing of Papias to refer to that pretends to be
original. We have only passages, said to be taken from his writings, preserved in the works
of Irenæus and Eusebius, and neither of these ecclesiastical penmen inspire the student with
full confidence; even Eusebius mentions him in doubtful fashion; "there are said to be five
books of Papias;" he gives "certain strange parables of our Lord and of his doctrine, and some
other matters rather too fabulous;" "he was very limited in his comprehension, as is evident
from his discourses" ("Eccles. Hist.," bk. iii., ch. 39). We thus see that the evidence of
Papias is discredited at the very outset, perhaps to the advantage of the Christians, however,
for his testimony is fatal to the Canonical Gospels. Papias is said to have written: "And John
the Presbyter also said this: Mark being the interpreter of Peter, whatsoever he recorded he
wrote with great accuracy, but not, however, in the order in which it was spoken or done by
our Lord, but as before said, he was in company with Peter, who gave him such instruction as
was necessary, but not to give a history of our Lord's discourses; wherefore Mark has not erred
in anything, by writing some things as he has recorded them; for he was carefully attentive
to one thing, not to pass by anything that he heard, or to state anything falsely in these
accounts" ("Eccles. Hist.," bk iii., ch. 39). How far does this account apply to the Gospel
now known as "according to St. Mark?" Far from showing traces of Petrine influence, such traces
are conspicuous by their absence. "Not only are some of the most important episodes in which
Peter is represented by the other Gospels as a principal actor altogether omitted, but throughout
the Gospel there is the total absence of anything which is specially characteristic of Petrine
influence and teaching. The argument that these omissions are due to the modesty of Peter is
quite untenable, for not only does Irenæus, the most ancient authority on the point, state
that this Gospel was only written after the death of Peter, but also there is no modesty in
omitting passages of importance in the history of Jesus, simply because Peter himself was in
some way concerned in them, or, for instance, in decreasing his penitence for such a denial
of his master, which could not but have filled a sad place in the Apostle's memory. On the
other hand, there is no adequate record of special matter which the intimate knowledge of the
doings and sayings of Jesus possessed by Peter might have supplied to counterbalance the singular
omissions. There is infinitely more of the spirit of Peter in the first Gospel than there is
in the second. The whole internal evidence, therefore, shows that this part of the tradition
of the Presbyter John transmitted by Papias does not apply to our Gospel" ("Sup. Rel.," vol.
i., pp. 459, 460). But a far stronger objection to the identity of the work spoken of by Papias
with the present Gospel of Mark, is drawn from the description of the document as given by
him. "The discrepancy, however, is still more marked when we compare with our actual second
Gospel the account of the work of Mark, which Papias received from the Presbyter. Mark wrote
down from memory some parts [Greek: enia] of the teaching of Peter regarding the life of Jesus,
but as Peter adapted his instructions to the actual circumstances [Greek: pros tas chreias]
and did not give a consecutive report [Greek: suntaxis] of the discourses or doings of Jesus,
Mark was only careful to be accurate, and did not trouble himself to arrange in historical
order [Greek: taxis] his narrative of the things which were said or done by Jesus, but merely
wrote down facts as he remembered them. This description would lead us to expect a work composed
of fragmentary reminiscences of the teaching of Peter, without orderly sequence or connection.
The absence of orderly arrangement is the most prominent feature in the description, and forms
the burden of the whole. Mark writes 'what he remembered;' 'he did not arrange in order the
things that were either said or done by Christ;' and then follow the apologetic expressions
of explanation--he was not himself a hearer or follower of the Lord, but derived his information
from the occasional preaching of Peter, who did not attempt to give a consecutive narrative,
and, therefore, Mark was not wrong in merely writing things without order as he happened to
hear or remember them. Now it is impossible in the work of Mark here described to recognise
our present second Gospel, which does not depart in any important degree from the order of
the other two Synoptics, and which, throughout, has the most evident character of orderly arrangement....
The great majority of critics, therefore, are agreed in concluding that the account of the
Presbyter John recorded by Papias does not apply to our second Canonical Gospel at all" ("Sup.
Rel.," vol. 1, pp. 460, 461). "This document, also, is mentioned by Papias, as quoted by Eusebius;
the account which they give of it is not applicable to the work which we now have. For the
'Gospel according to St. Mark' professes to give a continuous history of Christ's life, as
regularly as the other three Gospels, but the work noticed by Papias is expressly stated to
have been memoranda, taken down from time to time as Peter delivered them, and it is not said
that Mark ever reduced these notes into the form of a more perfect history" ("Christian Records,"
Rev. Dr. Giles, pp. 94, 95). "It is difficult to see in what respects Mark's Gospel is more
loose and disjointed than those of Matthew and Luke.... We are inclined to agree with those
who consider the expression [Greek: ou taxei] unsuitable to the present Gospel of Mark. As
far as we are able to understand the entire fragment, it is most natural to consider John the
Presbyter or Papias assigning a sense to [Greek: ou taxei] which does not agree with the character
of the canonical document" ("Introduction to the New Testament," Dr. Davidson, p. 158). This
Christian commentator is so disgusted with the conviction he honestly expresses as to the unsuitability
of the phrase in question as applied to Mark, that he exclaims: "We presume that John the Presbyter
was not infallible.... In the present instance, he appears to have been mistaken in his opinion.
His power of perception was feeble, else he would have seen that the Gospel which he describes
as being written [Greek: ou taxei], does not differ materially in arrangement from that of
Luke. Like Papias, the Presbyter was apparently destitute of critical ability and good judgment,
else he could not have entertained an idea so much at variance with fact" (Ibid, p. 159). We
may add, for what it is worth, that "according to the unanimous belief of the early Church
this Gospel was written at Rome. Hence the conclusion was drawn that it must have been composed
in the language of the Romans; that is, Latin. Even in the old Syriac version, a remark is
annexed, stating that the writer preached the Gospel in Roman (Latin) at Rome; and the Philoxenian
version has a marginal annotation to the same effect. The Syrian Churches seem to have entertained
this opinion generally, as may be inferred not only from these versions, but from some of their
most distinguished ecclesiastical writers, such as Ebedjesu. Many Greek Manuscripts, too, have
a similar remark regarding the language of our Gospel, originally taken, perhaps from the Syriac"
(Ibid, pp. 154, 155). We conclude, then, that the document alluded to by the Presbyter John,
as reported by Papias through Eusebius, cannot be identical with the present canonical Gospel
of Mark. Nor is the testimony regarding Matthew less conclusive: "Of Matthew he has stated
as follows: 'Matthew composed his history in the Hebrew dialect, and every one translated it
as he was able'" ("Eccles. Hist," Eusebius, bk. iii., ch. 39). The word here translated "history"
is [Greek: ta logia] and would be more correctly rendered by "oracles" or "discourses," and
much controversy has arisen over this term, it being contended that [Greek: logia] could not
rightly be extended so as to include any records of the life of Christ: "It is impossible upon
any but arbitrary grounds, and from a foregone conclusion, to maintain that a work commencing
with a detailed history of the birth and infancy of Jesus, his genealogy, and the preaching
of John the Baptist, and concluding with an equally minute history of his betrayal, trial,
crucifixion, and resurrection, and which relates all the miracles, and has for its evident
aim throughout the demonstration that Messianic prophecy was fulfilled in Jesus, could be entitled
[Greek: ta logia] the oracles or discourses of the Lord. For these and other reasons ... the
majority of critics deny that the work described by Papias can be the same as the Gospel in
our Canon bearing the name of Matthew" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., pp. 471, 472). But the fact which
puts the difference between the present "Matthew" and that spoken of by Papias beyond dispute
is that Matthew, according to Papias, "wrote in the Hebrew dialect," i.e., the Syro-Chaldaic,
or Aramæan, while the canonical Matthew is written in Greek. "There is no point, however, on
which the testimony of the Fathers is more invariable and complete than that the work of Matthew
was written in Hebrew or Aramaic" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., p. 475). This industrious author quotes
Papias, Irenæus, Pantænus in Eusebius, Eusebius, Origen, Cyril of Jerusalem, Epiphanius, Jerome,
in support of his assertion, and remarks that "the same tradition is repeated by Chrysostom,
Augustine and others" (Ibid, pp. 475-477). "We believe that Matthew wrote his Gospel in Hebrew,
meaning by that term the common language of the Jews of his time, because such is the uniform
statement of all ancient writers who advert to the subject. To pass over others whose authority
is of less weight, he is affirmed to have written in Hebrew by Papias, Irenæus, Origen, Eusebius,
and Jerome. Nor does any ancient author advance a contrary opinion" ("Genuineness of the Gospels,"
Norton, vol. i., pp. 196, 197). "Ancient historical testimony is unanimous in declaring that
Matthew wrote his Gospel in Hebrew, i.e., in the Aramæan or Syro-Chaldaic language, at that
time the vernacular tongue of the Jews in Palestine" (Davidson's "Introduction to the New Testament,"
p. 3). After a most elaborate presentation of the evidences, the learned doctor says: "Let
us now pause to consider this account of the original Gospel of Matthew. It runs through all
antiquity. None doubted of its truth, as far as we can judge from their writings. There is
not the least trace of an opposite tradition" (Ibid, p. 37). The difficulty of Christian apologists
is, then, to prove that the Gospel written by Matthew in Hebrew is the same as the Gospel according
to Matthew in Greek, and sore have been the shifts to which they have been driven in the effort.
Dean Alford, unable to deny that all the testimony which could be relied upon to prove that
Matthew wrote at all, also proved that he wrote in Hebrew, and aware that an unauthorised translation,
which could not be identified with the original, could never claim canonicity, fell back on
the remarkable notion that he himself translated his Hebrew Gospel into Greek; in the edition
of his Greek Testament published in 1859, however, he gives up this notion in favour of the
idea that the original Gospel of Matthew was written in Greek.

Of his earlier theory of translation by Matthew, Davidson justly says: "It is easy to perceive
its gratuitous character. It is a clumsy expedient, devised for the purpose of uniting two
conflicting opinions--for saving the credit of ancient testimony, which is on the side of a
Hebrew original, and of meeting, at the same time, the difficulties supposed to arise from
the early circulation of the Greek.... The advocates of the double hypothesis go in the face
of ancient testimony. Besides, they believe that Matthew wrote in Hebrew, for the use of Jewish
converts. Do they also suppose his Greek Gospel to have been intended for the same class? If
so, the latter was plainly unnecessary: one Gospel was sufficient for the same persons. Or
do they believe that the second edition of it was designed for Gentile Christians? if so, the
notion is contradicted by internal evidence, which proves that it was written specially for
Jews. In short, the hypothesis is wholly untenable, and we are surprised that it should have
found so many advocates" ("Introduction to the New Testament," p. 52). The fact is, that no
one knows who was the translator--or, rather, the writer--of the Greek Gospel. Jerome honestly
says that it is not known who translated it into Greek. Dr. Davidson has the following strange
remarks: "The author indeed must ever remain unknown; but whether he were an apostle or not,
he must have had the highest sanction in his proceeding. His work was performed with the cognisance,
and under the eye of Apostolic men. The reception it met with proved the general belief of
his calling, and competency to the task. Divine superintendence was exercised over him" (Ibid,
pp. 72, 73). It is difficult to understand how Dr. Davidson knows that divine superintendence
was exercised over an unknown individual. Dr. Giles argues against the hypothesis that our
Greek Gospel is a translation: "If St. Matthew wrote his Gospel in Hebrew, why has the original
perished? The existing Greek text is either a translation of the Hebrew, or it is a separate
work. But it cannot be a translation, for many reasons, 1. Because there is not the slightest
evidence on record of its being a translation. 2. Because it is unreasonable to believe that
an authentic work--written by inspiration--would perish, or be superseded by, an unauthenticated
translation--for all translations are less authentic than their originals. 3. Because there
are many features in our present Gospel according to St. Matthew, which are common to the Gospels
of St. Mark and St. Luke; which would lead to the inference that the latter are translations
also. Besides, there is nothing in the Gospel of St. Matthew, as regards its style or construction,
that would lead to the inference of its being a translation, any more than all the other books
contained in the New Testament. For these reasons we conclude that the 'Hebrew Gospel of St.
Matthew,' which perhaps no one has seen since Pantænus, who brought it from India, and the
'Greek Gospel according to St. Matthew,' are separate and independent works" ("Christian Records."
Rev. Dr. Giles, pp. 93, 94). It must not be forgotten that there was in existence in the early
Church a Hebrew Gospel which was widely spread, and much used. It was regarded by the Ebionites,
or Jewish Christians, later known as Nazarenes, as the only authentic Gospel, and Epiphanius,
writing in the fourth century, says: "They have the Gospel of Matthew very complete; for it
is well known that this is preserved among them as it was first written in Hebrew" ("Opp.,"
i. 124, as quoted by Norton). But this Gospel, known as the "Gospel according to the Hebrews,"
was not the same as the Greek "Gospel according to St. Matthew." If it had been the same, Jerome
would not have thought it worth while to translate it; the quotations that he makes from it
are enough to prove to demonstration that the present Gospel of Matthew is not that spoken
of in the earliest days. "The following positions are deducible from St. Jerome's writings:
1. The authentic Gospel of Matthew was written in Hebrew. 2. The Gospel according to the Hebrews
was used by the Nazarenes and Ebionites. 3. This Gospel was identical with the Aramæan original
of Matthew" (Davidson's "Introduction to the New Testament," p. 12). To these arguments may
be added the significant fact that the quotations in Matthew from the Old Testament are taken
from the Septuagint, and not from the Hebrew version. The original Hebrew Gospel of Matthew
would surely not have contained quotations from the Greek translation, rather than from the
Hebrew original, of the Jewish Scriptures. If our present Gospel is an accurate translation
of the original Matthew, we must believe that the Jewish Matthew, writing for Jews, did not
use the Hebrew Scriptures, with which his readers would be familiar, but went out of his way
to find the hated Septuagint, and re-translated it into Hebrew. Thus we find that the boasted
testimony said to be recorded by Papias to the effect that Matthew and Mark wrote our two first
synoptical Gospels breaks down completely under examination, and that instead of proving the
authenticity of the present Gospels, it proves directly the reverse, since the description
there given of the writings ascribed to Matthew and Mark is not applicable to the writings
that now bear their names, so that we find that in Papias there is evidence that two of the
Gospels were not the same.

H. That there is evidence that the earlier records were not the Gospels now esteemed Canonical.
This position is based on the undisputed fact that the "Evangelical quotations" in early Christian
writings differ very widely from sentences of somewhat similar character in the Canonical Gospels,
and also from the circumstance that quotations not to be found in the Canonical Gospels are
found in the writings referred to. Various theories are put forward, as we have already seen,
to account for the differences of expression and arrangement: the Fathers are said to have
quoted loosely, to have quoted from memory, to have combined, expanded, condensed, at pleasure.
To prove this general laxity of quotation, Christian apologists rely much on what they assert
is a similar laxity shown in quoting from the Old Testament; and Mr. Sanday has used this argument
with considerable skill. But it does not follow that variations in quotations from the Old
Testament spring from laxity and carelessness; they are generally quite as likely to spring
from multiplicity of versions, for we find Mr. Sanday himself saying that "most of the quotations
that we meet with are taken from the LXX. Version; and the text of that version was, at this
particular time especially, uncertain and fluctuating. There is evidence to show that it must
have existed in several forms, which differed more or less from that of the extant MSS. It
would be rash, therefore, to conclude at once, because we find a quotation differing from the
present text of the LXX., that it differed from that which was used by the writer making the
quotation" ("Gospels in the Second Century," pp. 16, 17). Besides, it must not be forgotten
that the variation is sometimes too persistent to spring from looseness of quotation, and that
the same variation is not always confined to one author. The position for which we contend
will be most clearly appreciated by giving, at full length, one of the passages most relied
upon by Christian apologists; and we will take, as an example of supposed quotation, the long
passage in Clement, chap. xiii.:--

MATTHEW.                   CLEMENT.                      LUKE.

                           Especially remembering
                           the word of the Lord Jesus
                           when he spake, teaching
                           gentleness and
                           long-suffering.
                           For this he said:
v. 7. Blessed are          Pity he, that he may be    vi. 36. Be ye,
the pitiful, for they      pitied: forgive, that it   therefore,
shall be pitied.           may be forgiven unto       merciful, as
vi. 14. For if ye          you.                       your Father also
forgive men their          As ye do, so shall it      is merciful.
trespasses, your heavenly  be done unto you;          vi. 37. Acquit,
Father will                as ye give, so shall it    and ye shall be
also forgive you.          be given unto you; as      acquitted.
vii. 12. All things,       ye judge, so shall it      vi. 31. And as ye
therefore, whatsoever      be judged unto you;        would that they
ye would that              as ye are kind, so         should do unto
men should do unto         shall kindness be          you, do ye also
you, even so do ye         shown unto you; with       unto them
unto them.                 that measure ye mete,      likewise.
vii. 2. For with           with it shall it be        vi. 18. Give, and
what judgment ye           measured unto you.         it shall be given
judge, ye shall be                                    unto you.
judged, and with                                      vi. 37. And judge
what measure ye                                       not, and ye shall
mete it shall be                                      not be judged. For
measured unto you.                                    with what measure
                                                      ye mete, it shall
                                                      be measured unto
                                                      you again.

The English, as here given, represents as closely as possible both the resemblances and the
differences of the Greek text. What reader, in reading this, can believe that Clement picked
out a bit here and a bit there from the Canonical Gospels, and then wove them into one connected
whole, which he forthwith represented as said thus by Christ? To the unprejudiced student the
hypothesis will, at once, suggest itself--there must have been some other document current
in Clement's time, which contained the sayings of Christ, from which this quotation was made.
Only the exigencies of Christian apologetic work forbid the general adoption of so simple and
so natural a solution of the question. ("Gospels in the Second Century," p. 65). It is clear
that Jesus could not have said these passages in the words given by Matthew, Clement, and Luke,
repeating himself in three different forms, now connectedly, now in fragments; two, at least,
out of the three must give an imperfect report. Mr. Sanday, by speaking of "the common original
of the two Synoptic texts," clearly shows that he does not regard the Synoptic version as original,
and thereby helps to buttress our contention, that the Gospels we have now are not the only
ones that were current in the early Church, and that they had no exclusive authority--in fact,
that they were not "Canonical." Further on, Mr. Sanday, referring to Polycarp, says: "I cannot
but think that there has been somewhere a written version different from our Gospels to which
he and Clement have had access ... It will be observed that all the quotations refer either
to the double or treble Synoptics, where we have already proof of the existence of the saying
in question in more than a single form, and not to those portions that are peculiar to the
individual Evangelists. The author of 'Supernatural Religion' is, therefore, not without reason
when he says that they may be derived from other collections than our actual Gospels. The possibility
cannot be excluded" ("Gospels in the Second Century," pp. 86, 87). The other passage from Clement
is yet more unlike anything in the Canonical Gospels: in chap. xlvi. we read:--

MATTHEW.          CLEMENT.          LUKE.             MARK. xxvi. 24.         He said:    
xvii. 1.          xiv. 21. Woe to Woe to that       Woe to that man;  Woe through       that
man by whom man by whom       well for him      whom they         the Son of man is the Son
of man    that he had not   (offences)        delivered up, well is delivered      been born,
than   come.             for him if that up; well for      that he should    2. It were   
man had not been him if that       offend one of my  advantageous for  born. man had not  
elect; better     him that a great  ix. 42. And been born.        for him a         millstone
were    whosoever shall xviii. 6. But     millstone should  hanged around     offend one of
whoso shall       be attached (to   his neck, and he  these little ones offend one of     him),
and he      cast in the sea,  which believe in these little      should be         than that
he      me, it is well for ones which        drowned in the    should offend     him rather
that a believe in me, it sea, than that    one of these      great millstone were profitable
he should offend  little ones.      were hanged about for him that a    one of my little  
his neck, and he great millstone   ones.                               thrown in the sea. were
suspended upon his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea.

"This quotation is clearly not from our Gospels, but is derived from a different written source....
The slightest comparison of the passage with our Gospels is sufficient to convince any unprejudiced
mind that it is neither a combination of texts, nor a quotation from memory. The language throughout
is markedly different, and, to present even a superficial parallel, it is necessary to take
a fragment of the discourse of Jesus at the Last Supper, regarding the traitor who should deliver
him up (Matt. xxvi. 24), and join it to a fragment of his remarks in connection with the little
child whom he set in the midst (xviii. 6)" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., pp. 233, 234).

In Polycarp a passage is found much resembling that given from Clement, chap, xiii., but not
exactly reproducing it, which is open to the same criticism as that passed on Clement.

If we desire to prove that Gospels other than the Canonical were in use, the proof lies ready
to our hands. In chap. xlvi. of Clement we read: "It is written, cleave to the holy, for they
who cleave to them shall be made holy." In chap. xliv.: "And our Apostles knew, through our
Lord Jesus Christ, that there would be contention regarding the office of the episcopate."
The author of "Supernatural Religion" gives us passages somewhat resembling this. He said:
"There shall be schisms and heresies," from Justin Martyr ("Trypho," chap. xxxv): "There shall
be, as the Lord said, false apostles, false prophets, heresies, desires for supremacy," from
the "Clementine Homilies": "From these came the false Christs, false prophets, false apostles,
who divided the unity of the Church," from Hegesippus (vol. i. p. 236).

In Barnabas we read, chap. vi.: "The Lord saith, He maketh a new creation in the last times.
The Lord saith, Behold I make the first as the last." Chap. vii.: Jesus says: "Those who desire
to behold me, and to enter into my kingdom, must, through tribulation and suffering, lay hold
upon me."

In Ignatius we find: Ep. Phil., chap, vii.: "But the Spirit proclaimed, saying these words:
Do ye nothing without the Bishop." "There is, however, one quotation, introduced as such, in
this same Epistle, the source of which Eusebius did not know, but which Origen refers to 'the
Preaching of Peter,' and Jerome seems to have found in the Nazarene version of the 'Gospel
according to the Hebrews.' This phrase is attributed to our Lord when he appeared 'to those
about Peter and said to them, Handle me, and see that I am not an incorporeal spirit.' But
for the statement of Origen, that these words occurred in the 'Preaching of Peter,' they might
have been referred without much difficulty to Luke xxiv. 39" ("Gospels in the Second Century,"
p. 81). And they most certainly would have been so referred, and dire would have been Christian
wrath against those who refused to admit these words as a proof of the canonicity of Luke's
Gospel in the time of Ignatius.

If, turning to Justin Martyr, we take one or two passages resembling other passages to be found
in the Canonical, we shall then see the same type of differences as we have already remarked
in Clement. In the fifteenth and sixteenth chapters of the first "Apology" we find a collection
of the sayings of Christ, most of which are to be read in the Sermon on the Mount; in giving
these Justin mentions no written work from which he quotes. He says: "We consider it right,
before giving you the promised explanation, to cite a few precepts given by Christ himself"
("Apology," chap. xiv). If these had been taken from Gospels written by Apostles, is it conceivable
that Justin would not have used their authority to support himself?

MATTHEW.                              JUSTIN.

v. 46. For if ye should love          And of our love to all, he
them which love you, what reward      taught this: If ye love them
have ye? do not even the              that love ye, what new things
publicans the same?                   do ye? for even fornicators do
                                      this; but I say unto you: Pray
v. 44. But I say unto you,            for your enemies, and love them
love your enemies, bless them         which hate you, and bless them
which curse you, do good to           which curse you, and offer
them which hate you, and pray         prayer for them which
for them which despitefully use       despitefully use you.
you and persecute you.

The corresponding passage in Luke is still further from Justin (Luke vi. 32-35). "It will be
observed that here again Justin's Gospel reverses the order in which the parallel passage is
found in our synoptics. It does so indeed, with a clearness of design which, even without the
actual peculiarities of diction and construction, would indicate a special and different source.
The passage varies throughout from our Gospels, but Justin repeats the same phrases in the
same order elsewhere" ("Sup. Rel," v. i. p. 353, note 2).

MATTHEW.                               JUSTIN.

v. 42. Give thou to him that           He said: Give ye to every one
asketh thee, and from him that         that asketh, and from him that
would borrow of thee turn not          desireth to borrow turn not ye
thou away.                             away: for if ye lend to them
                                       from whom ye hope to receive,
Luke vi. 34. And if you lend           what new thing do ye? for even
to them from whom ye hope to           the publicans do this.
receive, what thank have ye; for
sinners also lend to sinners to        But ye, lay not up for yourselves
receive as much again.                 upon the earth, where moth and
                                       rust do corrupt, and robbers
Matt. vi. 19, 20. Lay not up for       break through, but lay up for
yourselves treasures upon earth,       yourselves in the heavens, where
where moth and rust doth corrupt,      neither moth nor rust doth
and where thieves break                corrupt.
through and steal. But lay up
for yourselves treasures in heaven,    For what is a man profited, is he
where neither moth nor                 shall gain the whole world, but
rust doth corrupt, and where           destroy his soul? or what shall he
thieves do not break through           give in exchange for it? Lay up,
nor steal.                             therefore, in the heavens, where
                                       neither most nor rust doth corrupt.
xvi. 26.

This passage is clearly unbroken in Justin, and forms one connected whole; to parallel it from
the Synoptics we must go from Matthew v., 42, to Luke vi., 34, then to Matthew vi., 19, 20,
off to Matthew xvi. 26, and back again to Matthew vi. 19; is such a method of quotation likely,
especially when we notice that Justin, in quoting passages on a given subject (as at the beginning
of chap. xv. on chastity), separates the quotations by an emphatic "And," marking the quotation
taken from another place? These passages will show the student how necessary it is that he
should not accept a few words as proof of a quotation from a synoptic, without reading the
whole passage in which they occur. The coincidence of half a dozen words is no quotation when
the context is different, and there is no break between the context and the words relied upon.
"It is absurd and most arbitrary to dissect a passage, quoted by Justin as a consecutive and
harmonious whole, and finding parallels more or less approximate to its various phrases scattered
up and down distant parts of our Gospels, scarcely one of which is not materially different
from the reading of Justin, to assert that he is quoting these Gospels freely from memory,
altering, excising, combining, and inter-weaving texts, and introverting their order, but nevertheless
making use of them and not of others. It is perfectly obvious that such an assertion is nothing
but the merest assumption" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., p. 364). Mr. Sanday's conclusion as to Justin
is: "The à priori probabilities of the case, as well as the actual phenomena of Justin's Gospel,
alike tend to show that he did make use either mediately or immediately of our Gospels, but
that he did not assign to them an exclusive authority, and that he probably made use along
with them of other documents no longer extant" ("Gospels in the Second Century," p. 117). It
is needless to multiply analyses of quotations, as the system applied to the two given above
can be carried out for himself by the student in other cases. But a far weightier proof remains
that Justin's "Memoirs of the Apostles" were not the Canonical Gospels; and that is, that Justin
used expressions, and mentions incidents which are not to be found in our Gospels, and some
of which are to be found in Apocryphal Gospels. For instance, in the first "Apology," chap.
xiii., we read: "We have been taught that the only honour that is worthy of him is not to consume
by fire what he has brought into being for our sustenance, but to use it for ourselves and
those who need, and with gratitude to him to offer thanks by invocations and hymns for our
creation, and for all the means of health, and for the various qualities of the different kinds
of things, and for the changes of the seasons; and to present before him petitions for our
existing again in incorruption through faith in him. Our teacher of these things is Jesus Christ,
who also was born for this purpose." "He has exhorted us to lead all men, by patience and gentleness,
from shame and the love of evil" (Ibid, chap. xvi.). "For the foal of an ass stood bound to
a vine" (Ibid, chap. xxxii.). "The angel said to the Virgin, Thou shalt call his name Jesus,
for he shall save his people from their sins" (chap. xxxiii.). "They tormented him, and set
him on the judgment seat, and said, Judge us" (chap. xxxv.). "Our Lord Jesus Christ said, In
whatsoever things I shall take you, in these I shall judge you" ("Trypho," chapter xlviii.).
These are only some out of the many passages of which no resemblance is to be found in the
Canonical Gospels. The large majority of these are taken from the "Dialogue with Trypho," a
wearisome production, in which Justin endeavours to convince a Jew that Christ is the Messiah,
by quotations from the Jewish Scriptures (which, by the way, include Esdras, thus placing that
book on a level with the other inspired volumes). A noticeable peculiarity of this Dialogue
is, that any alleged incident in Christ's life is taken as true, not because it is authenticated
as historical, but simply because it was prophesied of; Justin's Christ is, in fact, an ideal,
composed out of the prophecies of the Jews, and fitted on to a Jew named Jesus.

    Christ was the offspring truly brought forth from the Father,
    before the creation of anything else, the Word begotten of God,
    before all his works, and he appeared before his birth,
    sometimes as a flame of fire, sometimes as an angel, as at
    Sodom, to Moses, to Joshua. He was called by Solomon, Wisdom;
    and by the Prophets and by Christians, the King, the Eternal
    Priest, God, Lord, Angel, Man, the Flower, the Stone, the
    Cornerstone, the Rod, the Day, the East, the Glory, the Rock,
    the Sword, Jacob, Israel, the Captain, the Son, the Helper, the
    Redeemer. He was born into the World by the over-shadowing of
    God the Holy Ghost, who is none other than the Word himself, and
    produced without sexual union by a virgin of the seed of Jacob,
    Judah, Phares, Jesse, and David, his birth being announced by an
    angel, who told the Virgin to call his name Jesus, for he should
    save his people from their sins. Joseph, the spouse of Mary,
    desired to put her away, but was commanded in a vision not to
    put away his wife, the angel telling him that what was in her
    womb was of the Holy Ghost. At the first census taken in Judæa,
    under Cyrenius, the first Roman Procurator, he left Nazareth
    where he lived, and went to Bethlehem, to which he belonged, his
    family being of the tribe of Judah, and then was ordered to
    proceed to Egypt with Mary and the child, and remain there until
    another revelation warned them to return to Judæa. At Bethlehem
    Joseph could find no lodging in the village, so took up his
    quarters in a cave near, where Christ was born and placed in a
    manger. Here he was found by the Magi from Arabia, who had been
    to Jerusalem inquiring what king was born there, they having
    seen a star rise in heaven. They worshipped the child and gave
    him gold, frankincense, and myrrh, and warned by a revelation,
    went home without telling Herod where they had found the child.
    So Herod, when Joseph, Mary, and the child had gone into Egypt,
    as they were commanded, ordered the whole of the children then
    in Bethlehem to be massacred. Archelaus succeeded Herod, and was
    succeeded himself by another Herod. The child grew up like all
    other men, and was a man without comeliness, and inglorious,
    working as a carpenter, making ploughs and yokes, and when he
    was thirty years of age, more or less, he went to Jordan to be
    baptised by John, who was the herald of his approach. When he
    stepped into the water a fire was kindled in the Jordan, and
    when he came out of the water the Holy Ghost lighted on him like
    a dove, and at the same instant a voice came from the heavens:
    "Thou art my son; this day have I begotten thee." He was tempted
    by Satan, and of like passions with men; he was spotless and
    sinless, and the blameless and righteous man; he made whole the
    lame, the paralytic, and those born blind, and he raised the
    dead; he was called, because of his mighty works, a magician,
    and a deceiver of the people. He stood in the midst of his
    brethren the Apostles, and when living with them sang praises
    unto God. He changed the names of the sons of Zebedee to
    Boanerges, and of another of the Apostles to Peter. He ordered
    his acquaintance to bring him an ass, and the foal of an ass
    which stood bound to a vine, and he mounted and rode into
    Jerusalem. He overthrew the tables of the money-changers in the
    temple. He gave us bread and wine in remembrance of his taking
    our flesh and of shedding his blood. He took upon him the curses
    of all, and by his stripes the human race is healed. On the day
    in which he was to be crucified (elsewhere called the night
    before) he took three disciples to the hill called Olivet, and
    prayed; his sweat fell to the ground like drops, his heart and
    also his bones trembling; men went to the Mount of Olives to
    seize him; he was seized on the day of the Passover, and
    crucified during the Passover; Pilate sent Jesus bound to Herod;
    before Pilate he kept silence; they set Christ on the judgment
    seat, and said: "Judge us;" he was crucified under Pontius
    Pilate; his hands and feet were pierced; they cast lots for his
    vesture, and divided it; they that saw him crucified, shook
    their heads and mocked him, saying: "Let him who raised the dead
    save himself." "He said he was the Son of God; let him come
    down; let God save him." He gave up his spirit to the Father,
    and after he was crucified all his acquaintance forsook him,
    having denied him. He rose on the third day; he was crucified on
    Friday, and rose on "the day of the Sun," and appeared to the
    Apostles and taught them to read the prophecies, and they
    repented of their flight, after they were persuaded by himself
    that he had beforehand warned them of his sufferings, and that
    these sufferings were prophesied of. They saw him ascend. The
    rulers in heaven were commanded to admit the King of Glory, but
    seeing him uncomely and dishonoured they asked, "Who is this
    King of Glory?" God will keep Christ in heaven until he has
    subdued his enemies the devils. He will return in glory, raise
    the bodies of the dead, clothe the good with immortality, and
    send the bad, endued with eternal sensibility into everlasting
    fire. He has the everlasting kingdom.

These references to Jesus are scattered up and down through Justin's writings, without any
chronological order, a phrase here, a phrase there; only in one or two instances are two or
three things related even in the same chapter. They are arranged here connectedly, as nearly
as possible in the usually accepted order, and the greatest care has been taken not to omit
any. It will be worth while to note the differences between this and our Gospels, and also
the allusions to other Gospels which it contains. Christ is clearly subsequent in time to the
Father, being brought forth from him; he conceives himself, he being here identified with the
Holy Ghost; it is the virgin who descends from David, a fact of which there is no hint given
in our Gospels; the reason of the name Jesus is told to the Virgin instead of to Joseph; we
hear nothing of the shepherds and the glory of the Lord round the chanting angels; Jesus is
uncomely, and works making ploughs and yokes, of which, we hear nothing in the Gospels; the
fire at the baptism is not mentioned in the Gospels, and the voice from heaven speaks in words
not found in them; he is called a magician, of which accusation we know nothing from the four;
the colt of the ass is tied to a vine, a circumstance omitted in the canonical writings; it
is no where said in the New Testament that the bread at the Lord's supper is given in remembrance
of the incarnation, but, on the contrary, it is in remembrance of the death of Christ; the
crucifixion is not stated to have taken place during the Passover, but on the contrary the
Fourth Gospel places it before, the others after, the Passover; we hear nothing of Christ set
on the judgment seat in the Gospels: the vesture is not divided according to John, who draws
a distinction between the vesture and the raiment which is not recognised by Justin; the taunts
of the crowd are different; the denial of Christ by all the Apostles is uncanonical, as is
also their forsaking him after the crucifixion; we do not hear of the "day of the Sun" in our
Gospels, nor of the rulers of heaven and their reception of Christ. In fact, there are more
points of divergence than of coincidence between the details of the story of Jesus given by
Justin and that given in the Four Gospels, and yet Paley says that: "all the references in
Justin are made without mentioning the author; which proves that these books were perfectly
notorious, and that there were no other accounts of Christ then extant, or, at least, no others
so received and credited, as to make it necessary to distinguish these from the rest" ("Evidences,"
p. 123). And Paley has actually the hardihood to state that what "seems extremely to be observed
is, that in all Justin's works, from which might be extracted almost a complete life of Christ,
there are but two instances in which he refers to anything as said or done by Christ, which
is not related concerning him in our present Gospels; which shows that these Gospels, and these,
we may say, alone, were the authorities from which the Christians of that day drew the information
upon which they depended" (Ibid pp. 122, 123). Paley, probably, never intended that a life
of Christ should "be extracted" from "all Justin's works." It is done above, and the reader
may judge for himself of Paley's truthfulness. One of the "two instances" is given as follows:
"The other, of a circumstance in Christ's baptism, namely, a fiery or luminous appearance upon
the water, which, according to Epiphanius, is noticed in the Gospel of the Hebrews; and which
might be true; but which, whether true or false, is mentioned by Justin with a plain mark of
diminution when compared with what he quotes as resting upon Scripture authority. The reader
will advert to this distinction. 'And then, when Jesus came to the river Jordan, where John
was baptising, as Jesus descended into the water, a fire also was kindled in Jordan; and when
he came up out of the water, the apostles of this our Christ have written, that the Holy Ghost
lighted upon him as a dove'" (Ibid, p. 123). The italics here are Paley's own. Now let the
reader turn to the passage itself, and he will find that Paley has deliberately altered the
construction of the phrases, in order to make a "distinction" that Justin does not make, inserting
the reference to the apostles in a different place to that which it holds in Justin. Is it
credible that such duplicity passes to-day for argument? one can only hope that the large majority
of Christians who quote Paley are ignorant, and are, therefore, unconscious of the untruthfulness
of the apologist; the passage quoted is taken from the "Dialogue with Trypho," chap. [thus].
The phrase italicised by Paley concludes the account, and if it refers to one part of the story,
it refers to all; thus the reader can see for himself that Justin makes no "mark of diminution"
of any kind, but gives the whole story, fire, Holy Ghost, and all, as from the "Memoirs." The
mockery of Christ on the cross is worded differently in Justin and in the Gospels, and he distinctly
says that he quotes from the "Memoirs." "They spoke in mockery the words which are recorded
in the memoirs of his Apostles: 'He said he was the Son of God; let him come down: let God
save him'" ("Dial." chap. ci.).

If we turn to the Clementines, we find, in the same way, passages not to be found in the Canonical
Gospels. "And Peter said: We remember that our Lord and Teacher, as commanding us, said: Keep
the mysteries for me, and the sons of my house" ("Hom." xix. chap. 20). "And Peter said: If,
therefore, of the Scriptures some are true and some are false, our Teacher rightly said: 'Be
ye good money-changers,' as in the Scriptures there are some true sayings and some spurious"
("Hom." ii. chap. 51; see also iii. chap. 50. and xviii. chap. 20). This saying of Christ is
found in many of the Fathers. "To those who think that God tempts, as the Scriptures say he
[Jesus] said: 'The tempter is the wicked one, who also tempted himself'" ("Hom." iii. chap. 55).

Of the Clementine "Homilies" Mr. Sanday remarks, "several apocryphal sayings, and some apocryphal
details, are added. Thus the Clementine writer calls John a 'Hemerobaptist,' i.e., member of
a sect which practised daily baptism. He talks about a rumour which became current in the reign
of Tiberius, about the 'vernal equinox,' that at the same time a King should arise in Judæa
who should work miracles, making the blind to see, the lame to walk, healing every disease,
including leprosy, and raising the dead; in the incident of the Canaanite woman (whom, with
Mark, he calls a Syrophoenician) he adds her name, 'Justa,' and that of her daughter 'Bernice.'
He also limits the ministry of our Lord to one year" ("Gospels in the Second Century," pp.
167, 168). But it is needless to multiply such passages; three or four would be enough to prove
our position: whence were they drawn, if not from records differing from the Gospels now received?
We should draw this conclusion from phrases scattered throughout the Gospels, which show that
the writers were ignorant of local customs, habits, and laws, and therefore could not have
been Jews contemporary with Jesus at the date when he is alleged to have lived. We find a clear
instance of this ignorance in the mention made by Luke of the census which is supposed to have
brought Joseph and Mary to Bethlehem immediately before the birth of Jesus. If Jesus was born
at the time alleged "the Roman census in question must have been made either under Herod the
Great, or at the commencement of the reign of Archelaus. This is in the highest degree improbable,
for in those countries which were not reduced in formam provinciæ, but were governed by regibus
sociis, the taxes were levied by these princes, who paid a tribute to the Romans; and this
was the state of things in Judæa prior to the deposition of Archelaus.... The Evangelist relieves
us from a further inquiry into this more or less historical or arbitrary combination by adding
that this taxing was first made when Cyrenius (Quirinus) was Governor of Syria [Greek: haegemoneuontos
taes Surias Kuraeniou] for it is an authenticated point that the assessment of Quirinus did
not take place either under Herod or early in the reign of Archelaus, the period at which,
according to Luke, Jesus was born. Quirinus was not at that time Governor of Syria, a situation
held during the last years of Herod by Lentius Saturninus, and after him by Quintilius Varus;
and it was not till long after the death of Herod that Quirinus was appointed Governor of Syria.
That Quirinus undertook a census of Judæa we know certainly from Josephus, who, however, remarks
that he was sent to execute this measure when Archelaus' country was laid to the province of
Syria (compare "Ant.," bk. xvii. ch. 13, sec. 5; bk. xviii. ch. 1, sec. 1; "Wars of the Jews,"
bk. ii. ch. 8, sec. 1; and ch. 9, sec. 1) thus, about ten years after the time at which, according
to Matthew and Luke, Jesus must have been born" (Strauss's "Life of Jesus," vol. i., pp. 202-204).

The confusion of dates, as given in Luke, proves that the writer was ignorant of the internal
history of Judæa and the neighbouring provinces. The birth of Jesus, according to Luke, must
have taken place six months after the birth of John Baptist, and as John was born during the
reign of Herod, Jesus must also have been born under the same King, or else at the commencement
of the reign of Archelaus. Yet Luke says that he was born during the census in Judæa, which,
as we have seen just above, took place ten years later. "The Evangelist, therefore, in order
to get a census, must have conceived the condition of things such as they were after the deposition
of Archelaus; but in order to get a census extending to Galilee, he must have imagined the
kingdom to have continued undivided, as in the time of Herod the Great. [Strauss had explained
that the reduction of the kingdom of Archelaus into a Roman province did not affect Galilee,
which was still ruled by Herod Antipas as an allied prince, and that a census taken by the
Roman Governor would, therefore, not extend to Galilee, and could not affect Joseph, who, living
at Nazareth, would be the subject of Herod. See, as illustrative of this, Luke xxiii. 6, 7.]
Thus he deals in manifest contradictions; or, rather, he has an exceedingly sorry acquaintance
with the political relations of that period; for he extends the census not only to the whole
of Palestine, but also (which we must not forget) to the whole Roman world" (Strauss's "Life
of Jesus," vol. i., p. 206).

After quoting one of the passages of Josephus referred to above, Dr. Giles says: "There can
be little doubt that this is the mission of Cyrenius which the Evangelist supposed to be the
occasion of the visit of Christ's parents to Bethlehem. But such an error betrays on the part
of the writer a great ignorance of the Jewish history, and of Jewish politics; for, if Christ
was born in the reign of Herod the Great, no Roman census or enrolment could have taken place
in the dominions of an independent King. If, however, Christ was born in the year of the census,
not only Herod the Great, but Archelaus, also, his son, was dead. Nay, by no possibility can
the two events be brought together; for even after the death of Archelaus, Judæa alone became
a Roman province; Galilee was still governed by Herod Antipas as an independent prince, and
Christ's parents would not have been required to go out of their own country to Jerusalem,
for the purpose of a census which did not comprise their own country, Galilee. Besides which,
it is notorious that the Roman census was taken from house to house, at the residence of each,
and not at the birth-place or family rendezvous of each tribe" ("Christian Records," pp. 120,
121). Another "striking witness to the late composition of the Gospels is furnished by expressions,
denoting ideas that could not have had any being in the time of Christ and his disciples, but
must have been developed afterwards, at a time when the Christian religion was established
on a broader and still increasing basis" (Ibid, p. 169). Dr. Giles has collected many of these,
and we take them from his pages. In John i. 15, 16, we read: "John bare witness of him, and
cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me:
for he was before me. And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace." At that
time none had received of the "fulness of Christ," and the saying in the mouth of John Baptist
is an anachronism. The word "cross" is several times used symbolically by Christ, as expressing
patience and self-denial; but before his own crucifixion the expression would be incomprehensible,
and he would surely not select a phraseology his disciples could not understand; "Bearing the
cross" is a later phrase, common among Christians. Matthew xi. 12, Jesus, speaking while John
the Baptist is still living, says: "From the days of John the Baptist until now"--an expression
that implies a lapse of time. The word "gospel" was not in use among Christians before the
end of the second century; yet we find it in Matthew iv. 23, ix. 35, xxiv. 14, xxvi. 13; Mark
i. 14, viii. 35, x. 29, xiii. 10, xiv. 9; Luke ix. 6. The unclean spirit, or rather spirits,
who were sent into the swine (Mark v. 9, Luke viii. 30), answered to the question, "What is
thy name?" that his name was Legion. "The Four Gospels are written in Greek, and the word 'legion'
is Latin; but in Galilee and Peraea the people spoke neither Latin nor Greek, but Hebrew, or
a dialect of it. The word 'legion' would be perfectly unintelligible to the disciples of Christ,
and to almost everybody in the country" (Ibid, p. 197). The account of Matthew, that Jesus
rode on the ass and the colt, to fulfil the prophecy, "Behold thy king cometh unto thee, meek,
and sitting upon an ass, and a colt the foal of an ass" (xxi. 5. 7), shows that Matthew did
not understand the Hebrew idiom, which should be rendered "sitting upon an ass, even upon a
colt, the foal of an ass," and related an impossible riding feat to fulfil the misunderstood
prophecy. The whole trial scene shows ignorance of Roman customs: the judge running in and
out between accused and people, offering to scourge him and let him go--a course not consistent
with Roman justice; then presenting him to the people with a crown of thorns and purple robe.
The Roman administration would not condescend to a procedure so unjust and so undignified.
The mass of contradictions in the Gospels, noticed under k, show that they could not have been
written by disciples possessing personal knowledge of the events narrated; while the fact that
they are written in Greek, as we shall see below, under j, proves that they were not written
by "unlearned and ignorant" Jews, and were not contemporary records, penned by the immediate
followers of Jesus. We are here dealing with the supposed history of a Jewish prophet written
by Jews, and yet we find it written in Greek, a language not commonly known among the Jews,
as we learn from the testimony of Josephus: "I have so completely perfected the work I proposed
to myself to do, that no other person, whether he were a Jew or a foreigner, had he ever so
great an inclination to it, could so accurately deliver these accounts to the Greeks as is
done in these books. For those of my own nation freely acknowledge that I far exceed them in
the learning belonging to the Jews. I have also taken a great deal of pains to obtain the learning
of the Greeks, and understand the elements of the Greek language, although I have so long accustomed
myself to speak our own tongue, that I cannot pronounce Greek with sufficient exactness; for
our nation does not encourage those that learn the languages of many nations ... on which account,
as there have been many who have done their endeavours with great patience to obtain this learning,
there have yet hardly been so many as two or three that have succeeded therein, who were immediately
well rewarded for their pains" ("Ant." bk. xx. ch. 11, sec 2). He further tells us that "I
grew weary, and went on slowly, it being a large subject, and a difficult thing to translate
our history into a foreign and, to us, unaccustomed language" (Ibid, Preface). The chief reason,
perhaps, for this general ignorance of Greek was the barbarous aversion of the Rabbis to foreign
literature. "No one will be partaker of eternal life who reads foreign literature. Execrable
is he, as the swineherd, execrable alike, who teaches his son the wisdom of the Greeks" (translated
from Latin translation of Rabbi Akiba, as given in note in Keim's "Jesus of Nazara," vol. i.
p, 295). It is noteworthy, also, that the Evangelists quote generally from the Septuagint,
and that loyal Jews would have avoided doing so, since "the translation of the Bible into Greek
had already been the cause of grief, and even of hatred, in Jerusalem" (Ibid, p. 294). In the
face of this we are asked to believe that a Galilean fisherman, by the testimony of Acts iv.
13, unlearned and ignorant, outstripped his whole nation, save the "two or three that have
succeeded" in learning Greek, and wrote a philosophical and historical treatise in that language.
Also that Matthew, a publican, a member of the most degraded class of the Jews, was equally
learned, and published a history in the same tongue. Yet these two marvels of erudition were
unknown to Josephus, who expressly states that the two or three who had learned Greek, were
"immediately well rewarded for their pains." The argument does not tell against Mark and Luke,
as no one knows anything about these two writers, and they may have been Greeks, for anything
we know to the contrary. If Mark, however, is to be identified with John Mark, sister's son
to Barnabas, then it will lie also against him. Leaving aside the main difficulty, pointed
out above, it is grossly improbable, on the face of it, that these Jewish writers should employ
Greek, even if they knew it, instead of their own tongue. They were writing the story of a
Jew; why should they translate all his sayings instead of writing them down as they fell from
his lips? Their work lay among the Jews. Eight years after the death of Jesus they rebuked
one of their number, Peter, who eat with "men uncircumcised" (Acts xi. 3); nineteen years afterwards
they still went only "unto the circumcision" (Gal. ii. 9); twenty-seven years afterwards they
were still in Jerusalem, teaching Jews, and carefully fulfilling the law (Acts xxi. 18-24);
after this, we hear no more of them, and they must all have been old men, not likely to then
change the Jewish habits of their lives. Besides, why should they do so? their whole sphere
of work was entirely Jewish, and, if they were educated enough to write at all, they would
surely write for the benefit of those amongst whom they worked. The only parallel for so curious
a phenomenon as these Greek Gospels, written by ignorant Jews, would be found if a Cornish
fisherman and a low London attorney, both perfectly ignorant of German, wrote in German the
sayings and doings of a Middlesex carpenter, and as their work was entirely confined to the
lower classes of the people, who knew nothing of German, and they desired to place within their
reach full knowledge of the carpenter's life, they circulated it among them in German only,
and never wrote anything about him in English. The Greek text of the Gospels proves that they
were written in later times, when Christianity found its adherents among the Gentile populations.
It might, indeed, be fairly urged that the Greek text is a suggestion that the creed did not
originate in Judæa at all, but was the offshoot of Gentile thought rather than of Jewish.

(1) The miracles with which they abound. Paley asks: "Why should we question the genuineness
of these books? Is it for that they contain accounts of supernatural events? I apprehend that
this, at the bottom, is the real, though secret cause of our hesitation about them; for, had
the writings, inscribed with the names of Matthew and John, related nothing but ordinary history,
there would have been no more doubt whether these writings were theirs, than there is concerning
the acknowledged works of Josephus or Philo; that is, there would have been no doubt at all"
("Evidences," pp. 105, 106). There is a certain amount of truth in this argument. We do--openly,
however, and not secretly--doubt any and every book which is said to be a record of miracles,
written by an eye-witness of them; the more important the contents of a book, the more keenly
are its credentials scrutinised; the more extraordinary the story it contains, the more carefully
are its evidences sifted. In dealing with Josephus, we examine his authenticity before relying
at all on his history; finding there is little doubt that the book was written by him, we value
it as the account of an apparently careful writer. When we come to passages like one in "Wars
of the Jews," bk. vi. ch. 5, sec. 3--which tells us among the portents which forewarned the
Jews of the fall of the temple: "A heifer, as she was led by the high priest to be sacrificed,
brought forth a lamb in the midst of the temple"--we do not believe it, any more than we believe
that the devils went into the swine. If such fables, instead of forming excrescences here and
there on the history of Josephus, which may be cut off without injury to the main record, were
so interwoven with the history as to be part and parcel of it, so that no history would remain
if they were all taken away, then we should reject Josephus as a teller of fables, and not
a writer of history. If it were urged that Josephus was an eye-witness, and recorded what he
saw, then we should answer: Either your history is not written by Josephus at all, but is falsely
assigned to him in order to give it the credit of being written by a contemporary and an eye-witness;
or else your Josephus is a charlatan, who pretended to have seen miracles in order to increase
his prestige. If this supposed history of Josephus were widely spread and exercised much influence
over mankind, then its authenticity would be very carefully examined and every weak point in
the evidences for it tested, just as the Gospels are to-day. We may add, that it is absurd
to parallel the Evangelists and Josephus, as though we knew of the one no more than we do of
the others. Josephus relates his own life, giving us an account of his family, his childhood,
and his education; he then tells us of his travels, of all he did, and of the books he wrote,
and the books themselves bear his own announcement of his authorship; for instance, we read:
"I, Joseph, the son of Matthias, by birth an Hebrew, a priest also, and one who at first fought
against the Romans myself, and was forced to be present at what was done afterwards, am the
author of this work" ("Wars of the Jews," Preface, sec. I). To which of the Gospels is such
an announcement prefixed? even in Luke, where the historian writes a preface, it is not said:
"I, Luke," and anonymous writings must be of doubtful authenticity. Which of the Evangelists
has related for us his own life, so that we may judge of his opportunities of knowing what
he tells? To which of their histories is such external testimony given as that of Tacitus to
Josephus, in spite of the contempt felt by the polished Roman towards the whole Jewish race?
Nothing can be more misleading than to speak of Josephus and of the Evangelists as though their
writings stood on the same level; every mark of authenticity is present in the one; every mark
of authenticity is absent in the other.

We shall argue as against the miraculous accounts of the Gospels--first, that the evidence
is insufficient and far below the amount of evidence brought in support of more modern miracles;
secondly, that the power to work miracles has been claimed by the Church all through her history,
and is still so claimed, and it is, therefore, impossible to mark any period wherein miracles
ceased; and, thirdly, that not only are Christian miracles unproven, but that all miracles
are impossible, as well as useless if possible.

Paley, arguing for the truth of Christian miracles, and of these only, endeavours to lay down
canons which shall exclude all others. Thus, he excludes: "I. Such accounts of supernatural
events as are found only in histories by some ages posterior to the transaction.... II. Accounts
published in one country of what passed in a distant country, without any proof that such accounts
were known or received at home.... III. Transient rumours.... IV. Naked history (fragments,
unconnected with subsequent events dependent on the miracles).... V. In a certain way, and
to a certain degree, particularity, in names, dates, places, circumstances, and in the order
of events preceding or following.... VI. Stories on which nothing depends, in which no interest
is involved, nothing is to be done or changed in consequence of believing them.... VII. Accounts
which come merely in affirmance of opinions already formed.... It is not necessary to admit
as a miracle, what can be resolved into a false perception (such miracles as healing the blind,
lame, etc., cannot be reduced under this head), ... or imposture ... or tentative miracles
(where, out of many attempts, one succeeds) ... or doubtful (possibly explainable as coincidence,
or effect of imagination) ... or exaggeration" ("Evidences," pp. 199-218). Paley then criticises
some miracles alleged by Hume, and argues against them. He very fairly criticises and disposes
of them, but fails to see that the same style of argument would dispose of his Gospel ones.
The Cardinal de Retz sees, at a church in Saragossa, a man who lighted the lamps, and the canons
told him "that he had been several years at the gate with one leg only. I saw him with two."
Paley urges that "it nowhere appears that he (the Cardinal) either examined the limb, or asked
the patient, or indeed any one, a single question about the matter" ("Evidences," page 224).
Well argued, Dr. Paley; and in the man who sat outside the beautiful gate of the Temple, who
examined the limb, or questioned the patient? Canons I. and II. exclude the Gospel miracles,
unless the Gospels are proved to be written by those whose names they bear, and even then there
is no proof that either Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John, published their Gospels in Judæa, or
that their accounts were "received at home." The doubt and obscurity hanging over the origin
of the Gospels themselves, throws the like doubt and obscurity on all that they relate. "Transient
rumours," "false perception," "imposture," "doubtful," and "exaggeration"--there is a door
open to all these things in the slow and gradual putting together of the collection of legends
now known as "the Gospels." We argue that the witness of the Gospels to the miracles cannot
be accepted until the Gospels themselves are authenticated, and that the evidence in support
of the miracles is, therefore, insufficient. Strauss shows us very clearly how the miracles
recorded in the Gospels became ascribed to Jesus. "That the Jewish people in the time of Jesus
expected miracles from the Messiah is in itself natural, since the Messiah was a second Moses,
and the greatest of the prophets, and to Moses and the prophets the national legend attributed
miracles of all kinds.... But not only was it pre-determined in the popular expectation that
the Messiah should work miracles in general--the particular kinds of miracles which he was
to perform were fixed, also in accordance with Old Testament types and declarations. Moses
dispensed meat and drink to the people in a supernatural manner (Ex. xvi. xvii.): the same
was expected, as the rabbis explicitly say, from the Messiah. At the prayer of Elisha, eyes
were in one case closed, in another, opened supernaturally (2 Kings vi.): the Messiah also
was to open the eyes of the blind. By this prophet and his master, even the dead had been raised
(1 Kings xvii; 2 Kings iv.); hence to the Messiah also power over death could not be wanting.
Among the prophecies, Is. xxxv, 5, 6 (comp. xlii. 7), was especially influential in forming
this part of the Messianic idea. ("Life of Jesus," vol. ii., pp. 235, 236.) In dealing with
the alleged healing of the blind, Strauss remarks: "How should we represent to ourselves the
sudden restoration of vision to a blind eye by a word or a touch? as purely miraculous and
magical? That would be to give up thinking on the subject. As magnetic? There is no precedent
of magnetism having influence over a disease of this nature. Or, lastly, as psychical? But
blindness is something so independent of the mental life, so entirely corporeal, that the idea
of its removal at all, still less of its sudden removal by means of a mental operation, is
not to be entertained. We must, therefore, acknowledge that an historical conception of these
narratives is more than merely difficult to us; and we proceed to inquire whether we cannot
show it to be probable that legends of this kind should arise unhistorically.... That these
deeds of Elisha were conceived, doubtless with reference to the passage of Isaiah, as a real
opening of the eyes of the blind, is proved by the above rabbinical passage [stating that the
Messiah would do all that in ancient times had been done by the hands of the righteous, vol.
i., p. 81, note], and hence cures of the blind were expected from the Messiah. Now, if the
Christian community, proceeding as it did from the bosom of Judaism, held Jesus to be the Messianic
personage, it must manifest the tendency to ascribe to him every Messianic predicate, and,
therefore, the one in question" (Ibid, 292, 293).

Not only, then, are the miracles rendered doubtful by the dubious character of the records
in which they are found, but there is a clear and reasonable explanation why we should expect
to find them in any history of a supposed Messiah. Christian apologists appear to have overlooked
the statement in the Gospels that Jesus objected to publicity being given to his supposed miracles;
the natural conclusion that sceptics draw from this assertion, is that the miracles never took
place at all, and that the supposed modesty of Jesus is invented in order to account for the
ignorance of the people concerning the alleged marvels. Judge Strange fairly remarks: "The
appeal to miracles is a very questionable resort. Now, as Jesus is repeatedly represented to
have exhorted those on whose behalf they were wrought to keep the matter secret to themselves,
and as when such signs, upon being asked for, were refused to be accorded by him, and the desire
to have them was repressed as sinful, it is to be gathered, in spite of the sayings to the
contrary, that the writers were aware that there was no such public sense of the occurrence
of these marvels as must have attached to them had they really been enacted, and we are left
to the conclusion that there were in fact no such demonstrations" ("The Portraiture and Mission
of Jesus," p. 23). Clearly, miracles are useless, as evidence, unless they are publicly performed,
and the secresy used by Jesus suggests fraud rather than miraculous power, and savours of the
conjuror rather than of the "God." But, further, there is far stronger evidence for later Church
miracles than for those of Christ, or of the apostles, and if evidence in support of miracles
is good for anything, these more modern miracles must command our belief. Eusebius relates
the following miracle of Narcissus, the thirtieth Bishop of Jerusalem, A.D. 180, as one among
many: "Whilst the deacons were keeping the vigils the oil failed them; upon which all the people
being very much dejected, Narcissus commanded the men that managed the lights to draw water
from a neighbouring well, and to bring it to him. They having done it as soon as said, Narcissus
prayed over the water, and then commanded them, in a firm faith in Christ, to pour it into
the lamps. When they had also done this, contrary to all natural expectation, by an extraordinary
and divine influence, the nature of the water was changed into the quality of oil, and by most
of the brethren a small quantity was preserved from that time until our own, as a specimen
of the wonder then performed" ("Eccles. Hist," bk. vi., chap. 9). St. Augustine bears personal
witness to more than one miracle which happened in his own presence, and gives a long list
of cures performed in his time. "One thing may be affirmed, that nothing of importance is omitted,
and in regard to essential details they are as explicit as the mass of other cases reported.
In every instance names and addresses are stated, and it will have been observed that all these
miracles occurred in, or near to, Hippo, and in his own diocese. It is very certain that in
every case the fact of the miracle is asserted in the most direct and positive terms" ("Sup.
Rel.," vol. i., pp. 167, 168).

None can deny that miraculous powers have been claimed by Christian Churches from the time
of Christ down to the present day, and that there is no break which can be pointed to as the
date at which these powers ceased. "From the first of the Fathers to the last of the Popes
a succession of bishops, of saints, and of martyrs, and of miracles, is continued without interruption;
and the progress of superstition was so gradual, and almost imperceptible, that we know not
in what particular link we should break the chain of tradition. Every age bears testimony to
the wonderful events by which it was distinguished; and its testimony appears no less weighty
and respectable than that of the preceding generation, till we are insensibly led on to accuse
our own inconsistency, if in the eighth or in the twelfth century we deny to the venerable
Bede, or to the holy Bernard, the same degree of confidence which, in the second century, we
had so liberally granted to Justin or to Irenæus. If the truth of any of those miracles is
appreciated by their apparent use and propriety, every age had unbelievers to convince, heretics
to confute, and idolatrous nations to convert; and sufficient motives might always be produced
to justify the interposition of heaven. And yet, since every friend to revelation is persuaded
of the reality, and every reasonable man is convinced of the cessation, of miraculous powers,
it is evident that there must have been some period in which they were either suddenly or gradually
withdrawn from the Christian Church. Whatever era is chosen for that purpose, the death of
the Apostles, the conversion of the Roman empire, or the extinction of the Arian heresy, the
insensibility of the Christians who lived at that time will equally afford a just matter of
surprise. They still supported their pretensions after they had lost their power. Credulity
performed the office of faith; fanaticism was permitted to assume the language of inspiration;
and the effects of accident or contrivance were ascribed to supernatural causes. The recent
experience of genuine miracles should have instructed the Christian world in the ways of Providence,
and habituated their eye (if we may use a very inadequate expression) to the style of the Divine
Artist" (Gibbon's "Decline and Fall," vol. ii., chap, xv., p. 145). The miraculous powers were
said to have been given by Christ himself to his disciples. (Mark xvi. 17, 18). This power
is exercised by the Apostles (see Acts throughout), by believers in the Churches (1 Cor. xii.
9, 10; Gal. iii. 5; James v. 14, 15); at any rate, it was in force in the time with which these
books treat, according to the Christians. Justus, surnamed Barsabas, drinks poison, and is
unhurt (Eusebius, bk. iii., chap. xxxix.). Polycarp's martyrdom, supposed to be in the next
generation, is accompanied by miracle (Epistle of Church of Smyrna; Apostolical Fathers, p.
92; see ante, pp. 220, 221). At Hierapolis the daughters of Philip the Apostle tell Papias
how one was there raised from the dead (Eusebius, bk. iii., ch. xxxix.). Justin Martyr pleads
the miracles worked in his own time in Rome itself (second "Apol.," ch. vi.). Irenæus urges
that the heretics cannot work miracles as can the Catholics: "they can neither confer sight
on the blind, nor hearing on the deaf, nor chase away all sorts of demons ... nor can they
cure the weak, or the lame, or the paralytic" ("Against Heretics," bk. ii., ch. xxxi., sec.
2). Tertullian encourages Christians to give up worldly pleasures by reminding them of their
grander powers: "what nobler than to tread under foot the gods of the nations, to exorcise
evil spirits, to perform cures?" ("De Spectaculis," sec. 29). "Origen claims for Christians
the power still to expel demons, and to heal diseases, in the name of Jesus; and he states
that he had seen many persons so cured of madness, and countless other evils" (quoted from
"Origen against Celsus" in "Sup. Rel.," vol. i., p. 154. A mass of evidence on this subject
will be found in chap. v. of this work, on "The Permanent Stream of Miraculous Pretension").
St. Augustine's testimony has been already referred to. St. Ambrose discovered the bones of
SS. Gervasius and Protasius; and "these relics were laid in the Faustinian Basilic, and the
next morning were translated into the Ambrosian Basilic; during which translation a blind man,
named Severus, a butcher by trade, was cured by touching the bier on which the relics lay with
a handkerchief, and then applying it to his eyes. He had been blind several years, was known
to the whole city, and the miracle was performed before a prodigious number of people; and
is testified also by St. Austin [Augustine], who was then at Milan, in three several parts
of his works, and by Paulinus in the Life of St. Ambrose" ("Lives of the Fathers, Martyrs,
etc.," by Rev. Alban Butler, vol. xii., pp. 1001, 1002; ed. 1838; published in two vols., each
containing six vols.). The sacred stigmata of St. Francis d'Assisi (died 1226) were seen and
touched by St. Bonaventure, Pope Alexander IV., Pope-Gregory IX., fifty friars, many nuns,
and innumerable crowds (Ibid, vol. x., pp. 582, 583). This same saint underwent the operation
of searing, and, "when the surgeon was about to apply the searing-iron, the saint spoke to
the fire, saying: 'Brother fire, I beseech thee to burn me gently, that I may be able to endure
thee.' He was seared very deep, from the ear to the eyebrow, but seemed to feel no pain at
all" (Ibid, p. 575). The miracles of St. Francis Xavier (died 1552) are borne witness to on
all sides, and resulted in the conversion of crowds of Indians; even so late as 1744, when
the Archbishop of Goa, by order of John V. of Portugal, attended by the Viceroy, the Marquis
of Castel Nuovo, visited the saint's relics, "the body was found without the least bad smell,"
and had "not suffered the least alteration, or symptom of corruption" (Ibid, vol. xii., p.
974). The chain of miracles extends right down to the present day. At Lourdes, in this year
(1876), the Virgin was crowned by the Cardinal Archbishop of Paris in the presence of thirty-five
prelates and one hundred thousand people. During the mass performed at the Grotto by the Nuncio,
Madeleine Lancereau, of Poictiers, aged 61, known by a large number of the pilgrims as having
been unable to walk without crutches for nineteen years, was radically cured. Here is a better
authenticated miracle than anyone in the Gospel story; yet no Protestant even cares to investigate
the matter, or believes its truth to be within the limits of possibility. Thus we see that
not a century has, passed since A.D. 30 which has not been thickly sown with miracles, and
there is no reason why we should believe in the miracles of the first century, and reject those
of the following eighteen; nor is the first century even "the beginning of miracles," for before
that date Jewish and Pagan miracles are to be found in abundance. Why should Bible miracles
be severed from their relations all over the world, so that belief in them is commendable faith,
while belief in the rest is reprehensible credulity? "The fact is, however, that the Gospel
miracles were preceded and accompanied by others of the same type; and we may here merely mention
exorcism of demons, and the miraculous cure of disease, as popular instances; they were also
followed by a long succession of others, quite as well authenticated, whose occurrence only
became less frequent in proportion as the diffusion of knowledge dispelled popular credulity.
Even at the present day a stray miracle is from time to time reported in outlying districts,
where the ignorance and superstition which formerly produced so abundant a growth of them are
not yet entirely dispelled" ("Sup. Rel.," vol. i., p. 148). "Ignorance, and its invariable
attendant, superstition, have done more than mere love of the marvellous to produce and perpetuate
belief in miracles, and there cannot be any doubt that the removal of ignorance always leads
to the cessation of miracles" (Ibid, p. 144).

Special objection has often been raised against one class of miracles--common to the Gospels
and to all miraculous narratives--which has severely taxed the faith even of the Christians
themselves--that class, namely, which consists of the healing of those "possessed with devils."
Exorcism has always been a favourite kind of miracle, but, in these days, very few believe
in the possibility of possession, and the language of the Evangelists on the subject has consequently
given rise to much trouble of mind. Prebendary Row, in a work on "The Supernatural in the New
Testament Possible, Credible, and Historical"--one of the volumes issued by the Christian Evidence
Society in answer to "Supernatural Religion"--deals fully with this difficulty; it has been
urged that possession was simply a form of mania, and on this Mr. Row say: "Now, on the assumption
that possession was simple mania, and nothing more, the following suppositions are the only
possible ones. First, that our Lord really distinguished between mania and possession; but
that the Evangelists have inaccurately reported his words and actions, through the media of
their own subjective impressions, or, in short, have attributed to him language that he did
not really utter. Second, that our Lord knew that possession was a form of mania, and adopted
the current notions of the time in speaking of it, and that the words were really uttered by
him. Third, that with similar knowledge, he adopted the language as part of the curative process.
Fourth, that he accepted the validity of the distinction, and that it was a real one during
those times" ("Supernatural in the New Testament," pp. 251, 252). Mr. Row argues that: "If
possession be mania, there is nothing in the language which the Evangelists have attributed
to our Lord which compromises the truthfulness of his character. If, on the other hand, we
assume that possession was an objective fact, there is nothing in our existing scientific knowledge
of the human mind which proves that the possessions of the New Testament were impossible" (Ibid).
Mr. Row rejects the first alternative, and accepts the accuracy of the Evangelic records. But
he considers that if possession were simply mania, Jesus, knowing the nature of the disease,
might reasonably use language suited to the delusion, as most likely to effect a cure; he could
not argue with a maniac that he was under a delusion, but would rightly use whatever method
was best fitted to ensure recovery. If this idea be rejected, and the reality of demoniacal
possession maintained as most consonant with the behaviour of Jesus, then Mr. Row argues that
there is no reason to consider it impossible that either good or evil spirits should be able
to influence man, and that psychological science does not warrant us in a denial of the possibility
of such influence.

The utter uselessness of miracles--supposing them to be possible--is worthy of remembrance.
They must not be accepted as proofs of a divine mission, for false prophets can work them as
well as true (Deut. xiii., 1-5; Matt. xxiv., 24; 2 Thess. ii., 9; Rev. xiii., 13-15, etc.)
and it may be that God himself works them to deceive (Deut. xiii., 3). Satan can work miracles
to authenticate the false doctrines of his emissaries, and there is no test whereby to distinguish
the miracle worked by God from the miracle worked by Satan. Hence a miracle is utterly useless,
for the credibility of a teacher rests on the morality that he teaches, and if this is good,
it is accepted without a miracle to attest its goodness, so that the attesting miracle is superfluous.
If it is bad, it is rejected in spite of a miracle to attest its authority, so that the attesting
miracle is deceptive. The only use of a miracle might be to attest a revelation of otherwise
unknowable facts, which had nothing to do with any moral teaching; and seeing that such revelation
could not be investigated, as it dealt with the unknowable, it would be highly dangerous--and,
perhaps, blasphemous--to accept it on the faith of the miracle, for it might quite as likely
be a revelation made by Satan to injure, as by God to benefit, mankind. Allowing that God and
Satan exist, it would seem likely--judging Christianity by its fruits--that the Christian religion
is such a malevolent revelation of the evil one.

The objection we raise is, however, of far wider scope than the assertion of the lack of evidence
for the New Testament miracles; it is against all, and not only against Christian, miracles.
"As far as the impossibility of supernatural occurrences is concerned, Pantheism and Atheism
occupy precisely the same grounds. If either of them propounds a true theory of the universe,
any supernatural occurrence, which necessarily implies a supernatural agent to bring it about,
is impossible, and the entire controversy as to whether miracles have ever been actually performed
is a foregone conclusion. Modern Atheism, while it does not venture in categorical terms to
affirm that no God exists, definitely asserts that there is no evidence that there is one.
It follows that, if there is no evidence that there is a God, there can be no evidence that
a miracle ever has been performed, for the very idea of a miracle implies the idea of a God
to work one. If, therefore, Atheism is true, all controversy about miracles is useless. They
are simply impossible, and to inquire whether an impossible event has happened is absurd. To
such a person the historical inquiry, as far as a miracle is concerned, must be a foregone
conclusion. It might have a little interest as a matter of curiosity; but even if the most
unequivocal evidence could be adduced that an occurrence such as we call supernatural had taken
place, the utmost that it could prove would be that some most extraordinary and abnormal fact
had taken place in nature of which we did not know the cause. But to prove a miracle to any
person who consistently denies that he has any evidence that any being exists which is not
a portion of and included in the material universe, or developed out of it, is impossible"
("The Supernatural in the New Testament," by Prebendary Row, pp. 14, 15). We maintain that
Nature includes everything, and that, therefore, the supernatural is an impossibility. Every
new fact, however marvellous, must, therefore, be within Nature; and while our ignorance may
for awhile prevent us from knowing in what category the newly-observed phenomenon should be
classed, it is none the less certain that wider knowledge will allot to it its own place, and
that more careful observation will reduce it under law, i.e., within the observed sequence
or concurrence of phenomena. The natural, to the unthinking, coincides with their own knowledge,
and supernatural, to them, simply means super-known; therefore, in ignorant ages, miracles
are every-day occurrences, and as knowledge widens the miraculous diminishes. The books of
unscientific ages--that is, all early literature--are full of miraculous events, and it may
be taken as an axiom of criticism that the miraculous is unhistorical.

(2). The numerous contradictions of each by the others.--We shall here only present a few of
the most glaring contradictions in the Gospels, leaving untouched a mass of minor discrepancies.
We find the principal of these when we compare the three synoptics with the Fourth Gospel,
but there are some irreconcilable differences even between the three. The contradictory genealogies
of Christ given in Matthew and Luke--farther complicated, in part, by a third discordant genealogy
in Chronicles--have long been the despair of Christian harmonists. "On comparing these lists,
we find that between David and Christ there are only two names which occur in both Matthew
and Luke--those of Zorobabel and of Joseph, the reputed father of Jesus. In tracing the list
downwards from David there would be less difficulty in explaining this, at least, to a certain
point, for Matthew follows the line of Solomon, and Luke that of Nathan--both of whom were
sons of David. But even in the downward line, on reaching Salathiel, where the two genealogies
again come into contact, we find, to our astonishment, that in Luke he is the son of Neri,
whilst in Matthew his father's name is Jechonias. From Zorobabel downwards, the lists are again
divergent, until we reach Joseph, who in St. Luke is placed as the son of Heli, whilst in St.
Matthew his father's name is Jacob" ("Christian Records," Dr. Giles, p. 101). According to
Chronicles, Jotham is the great-great-grandson of Ahaziah; according to Matthew, he is his
son (admitting that the Ahaziah of Chronicles is the Ozias of Matthew); according to Chronicles,
Jechonias is the grandson of Josiah, according to Matthew, he is his son; according to Chronicles,
Zorababel is the son of Pedaiah, according to Matthew, he is the son of Salathiel, according
to Luke, he is the son of Neri; according to Chronicles, Zorobabel left eight children, but
neither Matthew's Abiud, nor Luke's Rhesa, are among them. The same discordance is found when
Matthew and Luke again touch each other in Joseph, the husband of Mary; according to the one,
Jacob begat Joseph, according to the other, Joseph was the son of Heli. To crown the absurdity
of the whole, we are given two genealogies of Joseph, who is no relation to Jesus at all, if
the story of the virgin-birth be true, while none is given of Mary, through whom alone Jesus
is said to have derived his humanity. We have, therefore, no genealogy at all of Jesus in the
Gospels. Various theories have been put forward to reconcile the irreconcilable; some say that
the genealogy in Luke is that of Mary, of which supposition it is enough to remark that "Mary,
the daughter of," can scarcely be indicated by "Joseph, the son of." It is also said that Joseph
was legally the son of Jacob, although naturally the son of Heli, it being supposed that Jacob
died childless, and that his brother Heli according to the Levitical law, married the widow
of Jacob; but here Joseph's grand-fathers and great-grand-fathers should be the same, Heli
and Jacob being supposed to be brothers. Besides, if Joseph were legally the son of Jacob,
only the genealogy of Jacob should be given, since that only would be Joseph's genealogy. No
man can reckon his paternal ancestry through two differing lines. To make matters in yet more
hopeless confusion, we find Chronicles giving twenty-two generations where Matthew gives seventeen,
and Luke twenty-three; while, from David to Christ, Matthew reckons twenty-eight and Luke forty-three,
a most marvellous discrepancy.

"If we compare the genealogies of Matthew and Luke together, we become aware of still more
striking discrepancies. Some of these differences indeed are unimportant, as the opposite direction
of the two tables.... More important is the considerable difference in the number of generations
for equal periods, Luke having forty-one between David and Jesus, whilst Matthew has only twenty-six.
The main difficulty, however, lies in this: that in some parts of the genealogy in Luke totally
different persons are made the ancestors of Jesus from those in Matthew. It is true, both writers
agree in deriving the lineage of Jesus through Joseph from David and Abraham, and that the
names of the individual members of the series correspond from Abraham to David, as well as
two of the names in the subsequent portion: those of Salathiel and Zorobabel. But the difficulty
becomes desperate when we find that, with these two exceptions about midway, the whole of the
names from David to the foster father of Jesus are totally different in Matthew and in Luke.
In Matthew the father of Joseph is called Jacob; in Luke, Heli. In Matthew the son of David
through whom Joseph descended from that King is Solomon; in Luke, Nathan; and so on, the line
descends, in Matthew, through the race of known Kings; in Luke, through an unknown collateral
branch, coinciding only with respect to Salathiel and Zorobabel, whilst they still differ in
the names of the father of Salathiel and the son of Zorobabel.... A consideration of the insurmountable
difficulties, which unavoidably embarrass every attempt to bring these two genealogies into
harmony with one another, will lead us to despair of reconciling them, and will incline us
to acknowledge, with the more free-thinking class of critics, that they are mutually contradictory.
Consequently, they cannot both be true.... In fact, then, neither table has any advantage over
the other. If the one is unhistorical, so also is the other, since it is very improbable that
the genealogy of an obscure family like that of Joseph, extending through so long a series
of generations, should have been preserved during all the confusion of the exile, and the disturbed
period that followed.... According to the prophecies, the Messiah could only spring from David.
When, therefore, a Galilean, whose lineage was utterly unknown, and of whom consequently no
one could prove that he was not descended from David, had acquired the reputation of being
the Messiah; what more natural than that tradition should, under different forms, have early
ascribed to him a Davidical descent, and that genealogical tables, corresponding with this
tradition, should have been formed? which, however, as they were constructed upon no certain
data, would necessarily exhibit such differences and contradictions as we find actually existing
between the genealogies in Matthew and in Luke" ("Life of Jesus," by Strauss, vol. i., pp.
130, 131, and 137-139).

The accounts of the several angelic warnings to Mary and to Joseph appear to be mutually exclusive.
Most theologians, says Strauss, "maintaining, and justly, that the silence of one Evangelist
concerning an event which is narrated by the other, is not a negation of the event, they blend
the two accounts together in the following manner: 1, the angel makes known to Mary her approaching
pregnancy (Luke); 2, she then journeys to Elizabeth (the same Gospel); 3, after her return,
her situation being discovered, Joseph takes offence (Matthew); whereupon, 4, he likewise is
visited by an angelic apparition (the same Gospel). But this arrangement of the incidents is,
as Schliermacher has already remarked, full of difficulty; and it seems that what is related
by one Evangelist is not only pre-supposed, but excluded, by the other. For, in the first place,
the conduct of the angel who appears to Joseph is not easily explained, if the same, or another,
angel had previously appeared to Mary. The angel (in Matthew) speaks altogether as if his communication
were the first in this affair. He neither refers to the message previously received by Mary,
nor reproaches Joseph because he had not believed it; but, more than all, the informing Joseph
of the name of the expected child, and the giving him a full detail of the reasons why he should
be so called (Mat. i. 21), would have been wholly superfluous had the angel (according to Luke
i. 31) already indicated this name to Mary. Still more incomprehensible is the conduct of the
betrothed parties, according to this arrangement of events. Had Mary been visited by an angel,
who had made known to her an approaching supernatural pregnancy, would not the first impulse
of a delicate woman have been to hasten to impart to her betrothed the import of the divine
message, and by this means to anticipate the humiliating discovery of her situation, and an
injurious suspicion on the part of her affianced husband? But exactly this discovery Mary allows
Joseph to make from others, and thus excites suspicion; for it is evident that the expression
[Greek: heurethae en gastri echousa] (Mat. i. 18) signifies a discovery made independent of
any communication on Mary's part, and it is equally clear that in this manner only does Joseph
obtain the knowledge of her situation, since his conduct is represented as the result of that
discovery [Greek: (euriskesthai)]" ("Life of Jesus," v. i., pp. 146, 147).

Strauss gives a curious list, showing the gradual growth of the myth relating to the birth
of Jesus (we may remark No. 3 is distinctly out of place when referred to Olshausen: it should
be referred to the early Fathers, from whom Olshausen derived it):--

"1. Contemporaries of Jesus and composers of the genealogies: Joseph and Mary man and wife--Jesus
the offspring of their marriage.

"2. The age and authors of our histories of the birth of Jesus: Mary and Joseph betrothed only;
Joseph having no participation in the conception of the child, and, previous to his birth,
no conjugal connection with Mary.

"3. Olshausen and others: subsequent to the birth of Jesus, Joseph, though then the husband
of Mary, relinquishes his matrimonial rights.

"4. Epiphanius, Protevangelium, Jacobi, and others: Joseph a decrepit old man, no longer to
be thought of as a husband; the children attributed to him are of a former marriage. More especially
it is not as a bride and wife that he receives Mary; he takes her merely under his guardianship.

"5. Protevang., Chrysostom, and others: Mary's virginity was not only not destroyed by any
subsequent births of children by Joseph, it was not in the slightest degree impaired by the
birth of Jesus.

"6. Jerome: Not Mary only, but Joseph also, observed an absolute virginity, and the pretended
brothers of Jesus were not his sons, hut merely cousins to Jesus" ("Life of Jesus," vol. i.,
p. 188).

Thus we see how a myth gradually forms itself, bit after bit being added to it, until the story
is complete.

The account given by Luke of the meeting of Elizabeth and Mary is clearly mythical, and not
historical: "Apart from the intention of the narrator, can it be thought natural that two friends
visiting one another should, even in the midst of the most extraordinary occurrences, break
forth into long hymns, and that their conversation should entirely lose the character of dialogue,
the natural form on such occasions? By a supernatural influence alone could the minds of the
two friends be attuned to a state of elevation, so foreign to their every-day life. But if
indeed Mary's hymn is to be understood as the work of the Holy Spirit, it is surprising that
a speech emanating immediately from the divine source of inspiration should not be more striking
for its originality, but should be so interlarded with reminiscences from the Old Testament,
borrowed from the song of praise spoken by the mother of Samuel (1 Sam. ii) under analogous
circumstances. Accordingly, we must admit that the compilation of this hymn, consisting of
recollections from the Old Testament, was put together in a natural way; but allowing its composition
to have been perfectly natural, it cannot be ascribed to the artless Mary, but to him who poetically
wrought out the tradition in circulation respecting the scene in question" ("Life of Jesus,"
by Strauss, vol. i., pp. 196, 197).

The notes of time given for the birth of Christ are irreconcilable. According to Matthew he
is born in the reign of Herod the King: according to Luke, he is born six months after John
Baptist, whose birth is referred to the reign of the same monarch; yet in Luke, he is also
born at the time of the census, which must have taken place at least ten years later; thus
Luke contradicts Matthew, and also contradicts himself. The discrepancies surrounding the birth
are not yet complete; passing the curious differences between Matthew and Luke, Matthew knowing
nothing about the visit of the shepherds, and Luke nothing of the visit of the Magi, and the
consequent slaughter of the babes, we come to a direct conflict between the Evangelists; Matthew
informs us that Joseph, Mary, and the child, fled into Egypt from Bethlehem to avoid the wrath
of King Herod, and that they were returning to Judæa, when Joseph, hearing that Archelaus was
ruling there, turned aside to Galilee, and came and dwelt "in a city called Nazareth." Luke,
on the contrary, says that when the days of Mary's purification were accomplished they took
the child up to Jerusalem, and presented him in the Temple, and then, after this, returned
to Galilee, to "their own city, Nazareth." Moreover, had Herod wanted to find him, he could
have taken him at the Temple, where his presentation caused much commotion. In Matthew, the
turning into Galilee is clearly a new thing; in Luke, it is returning home; and in Luke there
is no space of time wherein the flight into Egypt can by any possibility be inserted. We may
add a wonder why Galilee was a safer residence than Judæa, since Antipas, its ruler, was a
son of Herod, and would, primâ facie, be as dangerous as his brother Archelaus.

The conduct of Herod is incredible if we accept Matthew's account: "Herod's first anxious question
to the magi is to ascertain the time of the appearance of the star. He 'inquires diligently'
(ii. 7); and he must have had a motive for so doing. What was this motive? Could he have any
other purpose than that of determining the age under which no infants in the neighbourhood
of Bethlehem should be allowed to live? But, according to the narrative, Herod never conceived
the idea of slaughtering the children till he found that he had been 'mocked of the wise men;'
and the mythical nature of the story is betrayed by this anticipation of motives which, at
the time spoken of could have no existence. Yet, further, Herod, who, though in a high degree
cruel, unjust, and unscrupulous, is represented as a man of no slight sagacity, clearness of
purpose, and strength of will, and who feels a deadly jealousy of an infant whom he knows to
have been recently born in Bethlehem, a place only a few miles distant from Jerusalem, is here
described not as sending his own emissaries privately to put him to death, or despatching them
with the Magi, or detaining the Magi at Jerusalem, until he had ascertained the truth of their
tale, and the correctness of the answer of the priests and scribes, but as simply suffering
the Magi to go by themselves, at the same time charging them to return with the information
for which he had shown himself so feverishly anxious. This strange conduct can be accounted
for only on the ground of a judicial blindness; but they who resort to such an explanation
must suppose that it was inflicted in order to save the new-born Christ from the death thus
threatened; and if they adopt this hypothesis, they must further believe that this arrangement
likewise ensured the death of a large number of infants instead of one. ("The English Life
of Jesus," by Thomas Scott, pp. 34, 35; ed. 1872). To these improbabilities must be added the
remarkable fact that Josephus, who gives a very detailed history of Herod, entirely omits any
hint of this stupendous crime.

The story of the temptation of Jesus is full of contradictions. Matthew iv. 2, 3, implies that
the first visit of the tempter was made after the forty days' fast, while Mark and Luke speak
of his being tempted for forty days. According to Matthew, the angels came to him when the
Devil left him; but, according to Mark, they ministered to him throughout. According to Matthew,
the temptation to cast himself down is the second trial, and the offer of the kingdoms of the
world the third: in Luke the order is reversed. In additions to these contradictions, we must
note the absurdity of the story. The Devil "set him on a pinnacle of the temple." Did Jesus
and the Devil go flying through the air together, till the Devil put Jesus down? What did the
people in the courts below think of the Devil and a man standing on a point of the temple in
the full sight of Jerusalem? Did so unusual an occurrence cause no astonishment in the city?
Where is the high mountain from which Jesus and the Devil saw all round the globe? Is it true
that the Devil gives power to whom he will? If so, why is it said that the powers are "ordained
of God"?

Another "discrepancy, concerning the denial of Christ by Peter, furnishes a still stronger
proof that these records have not come down to us with the exactness of a contemporary character,
much less with the authority of inspiration. The four accounts of Peter's denial vary considerably.
The variations will be more intelligible, exhibited in a tabular form" (Giles' "Christian Records,"
p. 228). We present the table, slightly altered in arrangement, and corrected in some details:--

       MATTHEW.        MARK.           LUKE.           JOHN.
1st.   Seated without  Beneath in      In the          On entering
       in the          the palace, by  midst of the    to the
       palace, to a    the fire, to a  hall where      damsel that
       damsel.         maid.           Jesus was       kept the
                                       being tried,    door.
                                       seated by
                                       the fire, to a
                                       maid.

2nd.   Out in the      Out in the      Still in the    In the hall,
       porch, having   porch, having   hall, in        standing  by
       left the room,  left the room,  answer to a     the fire, in
       in answer to    in answer to    man.            answer to the
       a second        a second                        bystanders.
       maid.           maid.

3rd.   Out in the      Out in the      Still in the    Still in the
       porch, to the   porch, to the   hall, to a man. hall, to a
       bystanders.     bystanders.                     man.

In addition to these discrepancies, we find that Jesus prophesies that Peter shall deny him
thrice "before the cock crow," while in Mark the cock crows immediately after the first denial:
in Luke, Jesus and Peter remain throughout the scene of the denial in the same hall, so that
the Lord may turn and look upon Peter; while Matthew and Mark place him "beneath" or "without,"
and make the third denial take place in the porch outside--a place where Jesus, by the context,
certainly could not see him.

How long did the ministry of Jesus last? Luke places his baptism in the fifteenth year of Tiberius
(iii. 1), and he might have been crucified under Pontius Pilate at any time within the seven
years following. The Synoptics mention but one Passover, and at that Jesus was crucified, thus
limiting his ministry to one year, unless he broke the Mosaic law, and disregarded the feast;
clearly his triumphal entry into Jerusalem is his first visit there in his manhood, since we
find all the city moved and the people asking: "Who is this? And the multitude said, This is
Jesus the Prophet of Nazareth of Galilee" (Matt. xxi. 10, 11). His person would have been well
known, had he visited Jerusalem before and worked miracles there. If, however, we turn to the
Fourth Gospel, his ministry must extend over at least two years. According to Irenæus, he "did
not want much of being fifty years old" when the Jews disputed with him ("Against Heresies,"
bk. ii., ch. 22, sec. 6), and he taught for nearly twenty years. Dr. Giles remarks that "the
first three Gospels plainly exhibit the events of only one year; to prove them erroneous or
defective in so important a feature as this, would be to detract greatly from their value"
("Christian Records," p. 112). "According to the first three Gospels, Christ's public life
lasted only one year, at the end of which he went up to Jerusalem and was crucified" (Ibid,
p. 11). "Would this questioning [on the triumphal entry] have taken place if Jesus had often
made visits to Jerusalem, and been well known there? The multitude who answered the question,
and who knew Jesus, consisted of those 'who had come to the feast,'--St. John indicates this
[xii. 12]--but the people of Jerusalem knew him not, and, therefore, asked 'Who is this?'"
(Ibid, p. 113). The fact is, that we know nothing certainly as to the birth, life, death, of
this supposed Christ. His story is one tissue of contradictions. It is impossible to believe
that the Synoptics and the fourth Gospel are even telling the history of the same person. The
discourses of Jesus in the Synoptics are simple, although parabolical; in the Fourth they are
mystical, and are being continually misunderstood by the people. The historical divergences
are marked. The fourth Gospel "tells us (ch. 1) that at the beginning of his ministry Jesus
was at Bethabara, a town near the junction of the Jordan with the Dead Sea; here he gains three
disciples, Andrew and another, and then Simon Peter: the next day he goes into Galilee and
finds Philip and Nathanael, and on the following day--somewhat rapid travelling--he is present,
with these disciples, at Cana, where he performs his first miracle, going afterwards with them
to Capernaum and Jerusalem. At Jerusalem, whither he goes for 'the Jews' passover,' he drives
out the traders from the temple and remarks, 'Destroy this temple, and in three days I will
raise it up:' which remark causes the first of the strange misunderstandings between Jesus
and the Jews peculiar to this Gospel, simple misconceptions which Jesus never troubles himself
to set right. Jesus and his disciples then go to the Jordan, baptising, whence Jesus departs
into Galilee with them, because he hears that the Pharisees know he is becoming more popular
than the Baptist (ch. iv., 1, 3). All this happens before John is cast into prison, an occurrence
which is a convenient note of time. We turn to the beginning of the ministry of Jesus as related
by the three. Jesus is in the south of Palestine, but, hearing that John is cast into prison,
he departs into Galilee, and resides at Capernaum. There is no mention of any ministry in Galilee
and Judæa before this; on the contrary, it is only 'from that time' that 'Jesus began to preach.'
He is alone, without disciples, but, walking by the sea, he comes upon Peter, Andrew, James,
and John, and calls them. Now if the fourth Gospel is true, these men had joined him in Judæa,
followed him to Galilee, south again to Jerusalem, and back to Galilee, had seen his miracles
and acknowledged him as Christ, so it seems strange that they had deserted him and needed a
second call, and yet more strange is it that Peter (Luke v. 1-11) was so astonished and amazed
at the miracle of the fishes. The driving out of the traders from the temple is placed by the
Synoptics at the very end of his ministry, and the remark following it is used against him
at his trial: so was probably made just before it. The next point of contact is the history
of the 5,000 fed by five loaves (ch. vi.); the preceding chapter relates to a visit to Jerusalem
unnoticed by the three: indeed, the histories seem written of two men, one the 'prophet of
Galilee' teaching in its cities, the other concentrating his energies on Jerusalem. The account
of the miraculous feeding is alike in all: not so the succeeding account of the multitude.
In the fourth Gospel, Jesus and the crowd fall to disputing, as usual, and he loses many disciples:
among the three, Luke says nothing of the immediately following events, while Matthew and Mark
tell us that the multitudes--as would be natural--crowded round him to touch even the hem of
his garment. This is the same as always: in the three the crowd loves him; in the fourth it
carps at and argues with him. We must again miss the sojourn of Jesus in Galilee according
to the three, and his visit to Jerusalem according to the one, and pass to his entry into Jerusalem
in triumph. Here we notice a most remarkable divergence: the Synoptics tell us that he was
going up to Jerusalem from Galilee, and, arriving on his way at Bethphage, he sent for an ass
and rode thereon into Jerusalem: the fourth Gospel relates that he was dwelling at Jerusalem,
and leaving it, for fear of the Jews, he retired, not into Galilee, but 'beyond Jordan, into
a place where John at first baptised,' i.e., Bethabara, 'and there he abode.' From thence he
went to Bethany and raised to life a putrefying corpse: this stupendous miracle is never appealed
to by the earlier historians in proof of their master's greatness, though 'much people of the
Jews' are said to have seen Lazarus after his resurrection; this miracle is also given as the
reason for the active hostility of the priests, 'from that day forward.' Jesus then retires
to Ephraim near the wilderness, from which town he goes to Bethany, and thence in triumph to
Jerusalem, being met by the people 'for that they heard that he had done this miracle.' The
two accounts have absolutely nothing in common except the entry into Jerusalem, and the preceding
events of the Synoptics exclude those of the fourth Gospel, as does the latter theirs. If Jesus
abode in Bethabara and Ephraim, he could not have come from Galilee; if he started from Galilee,
he was not abiding in the south. John xiii.-xvii. stand alone, with the exception of the mention
of the traitor. On the arrest of Jesus, he is led (ch. xviii. 13) to Annas, who sends him to
Caiaphas, while the others send him direct to Caiaphas, but this is immaterial. He is then
taken to Pilate: the Jews do not enter the judgment-hall, lest, being defiled, they could not
eat the passover, a feast which, according to the Synoptics, was over, Jesus and his disciples
having eaten it the night before. Jesus is exposed to the people at the sixth hour (ch. xix.
14), while Mark tells us he was crucified three hours before--at the third hour--a note of
time which agrees with the others, since they all relate that there was darkness from the sixth
to the ninth hour, i.e., there was thick darkness at the time when, 'according to St. John,'
Jesus was exposed. Here our evangelist is in hopeless conflict with the three. The accounts
about the resurrection are irreconcilable in all the Gospels, and mutually destructive. It
remains to notice, among these discrepancies, one or two points which did not come in conveniently
in the course of the narrative. During the whole of the fourth Gospel, we find Jesus constantly
arguing for his right to the title of Messiah. Andrew speaks of him as such (i. 41); the Samaritans
acknowledge him (iv. 42); Peter owns him (vi. 69); the people call him so (vii. 26, 31, 41);
Jesus claims it (viii. 24); it is the subject of a law (ix. 22); Jesus speaks of it as already
claimed by him (x. 24, 25); Martha recognises it (xi. 27). We thus find that, from the very
first, this title is openly claimed by Jesus, and his right to it openly canvassed by the Jews.
But--in the three--the disciples acknowledge him as Christ, and he charges them to 'tell no
man that he was Jesus the Christ" (Matt. xvi. 20; Mark viii. 29, 30; Luke ix. 20, 21); and
this in the same year that he blames the Jews for not owning this Messiahship, since he had
told them who he was 'from the beginning' (ch. viii. 24, 25): so that, if 'John' was right,
we fail to see the object of all the mystery about it, related by the Synoptics. We mark, too,
how Peter is, in their account, praised for confessing him, for flesh and blood had not revealed
it to him, while in the fourth Gospel, 'flesh and blood,' in the person of Andrew, reveal to
Peter that the Christ is found; and there seems little praise due to Peter for a confession
which had been made two or three years earlier by Andrew, Nathanael, John Baptist, and the
Samaritans. Contradiction can scarcely be more direct. In John vii. Jesus owns that the Jews
know his birthplace (28), and they state (41, 42) that he comes from Galilee, while Christ
should be born at Bethlehem. Matthew and Luke distinctly say Jesus was born at Bethlehem; but
here Jesus confesses the right knowledge of those who attribute his birthplace to Galilee,
instead of setting their difficulty at rest by explaining that though brought up at Nazareth
he was born in Bethlehem. But our writer was apparently ignorant of their accounts ("According
to St John," by Annie Besant. Scott Series, pp. 11-14, ed. 1873). These are but a few of the
contradictions in the Gospels, which compel us to reject them as historical narratives.

According to the first theory, whatever was expected of the Messiah has been attributed to
Jesus. "When not merely the particular nature and manner of an occurrence is critically suspicious,
its external circumstances represented as miraculous and the like; but where likewise the essential
substance and groundwork is either inconceivable in itself, or is in striking harmony with
some Messianic idea of the Jews of that age, then not the particular alleged course and mode
of the transaction only, but the entire occurrence must be regarded as unhistorical" (Strauss'
"Life of Jesus," vol. i., p. 94). The mythic theory accepts an historical groundwork for many
of the stories about Jesus, but it does not seek to explain the miraculous by attenuating it
into the natural--as by explaining the story of the transfiguration to have been developed
from the fact of Jesus meeting secretly two men, and from the brilliancy of the sunlight dazzling
the eyes of the disciples--but it attributes the incredible portions of the history to the
Messianic theories current among the Jews. The Messiah would do this and that; Jesus was the
Messiah; therefore, Jesus did this and that--such, argue the supporters of the mythical theory,
was the method in which the mythus was developed. The theory finds some support in the peculiar
attitude of Justin Martyr, for instance, who believes a number of things about Jesus, not because
the things are thus recorded of him in history, but because the prophets stated that such things
should happen to the Messiah. Thus, Jesus is descended from David, because the Messiah was
to come of David's lineage. His birth is announced by an angelic visitant, because the birth
of the Messiah must not be less honoured than that of Isaac or of Samson; he is born of a virgin,
because God says of the Messiah, "this day have I begotten thee," implying the direct paternity
of God, and because the prophecy in Is. vii. 14 was applied to the Messiah by the later Jews
(see Septuagint translation, [Greek: parthenos], a pure virgin, while the Hebrew word [Hebrew:
almah] signifies a young woman; the Hebrew word for virgin [Hebrew: betulah] not being used
in the text of Isaiah), the ideas of "son of God" and "son of a virgin" completing each other;
born at Bethlehem, because there the Messiah was to be born (Micah v. 1); announced to shepherds,
because Moses was visited among the flocks, and David taken from the sheepfolds at Bethlehem;
heralded by a star, because a star should arise out of Jacob (Num. xxiv. 17), and "the Gentiles
shall come to thy light" (Is. lx. 3); worshipped by magi, because the star was seen by Balaam,
the magus, and astrologers would be those who would most notice a star; presented with gifts
by these Eastern sages, because kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts (Ps. lxxii. 10);
saved from the destruction of the infants by a jealous king, because Moses, one of the great
types of the Messiah, was so saved; flying into Egypt and thence returning, because Israel,
again a type of the Messiah, so fled and returned, and "out of Egypt have I called my son"
(Hos. xi. 1); at twelve years of age found in the temple, because the duties of the law devolved
on the Jewish boy at that age, and where should the Messiah then be found save in his Father's
temple? recognised at his baptism by a divine voice, to fulfil Is. xlii. 1; hovered over by
a dove, because the brooding Spirit (Gen. i. 2) was regarded as dove-like, and the Spirit was
to be especially poured on the Messiah (Is. xlii. 1); tempted by the devil to test him, because
God tested his greatest servants, and would surely test the Messiah; fasting forty days in
the wilderness, because the types of the Messiah--Moses and Elijah--thus fasted in the desert;
healing all manner of disease, because Messiah was to heal (Is. xxxv. 5, 6); preaching, because
Messiah was to preach (Is. lxi. 1, 2); crucified, because the hands and feet of Messiah were
to be pierced (Ps. xxii. 16); mocked, because Messiah was to be mocked (Ibid 6-8); his garments
divided, because thus it was spoken of Messiah (Ibid, 18); silent before his judges, because
Messiah was not to open his mouth (Is. liii. 7); buried by the rich, because Messiah was thus
to find his grave (Ib. 9); rising again, because Messiah's could not be left in hell (Ps. xvi.
10); sitting at God's right hand, because there Messiah was to sit as king (Ps. cx. 1). Thus
the form of the Messiah was cast, and all that had to be done was to pour in the human metal;
those who alleged that the Messiah had come in the person of Jesus of Nazareth, adapted his
story to the story of the Messiah, pouring the history of Jesus into the mould already made
for the Messiah, and thus the mythus was transformed into a history.

This theory is much strengthened by a study of the prophecies quoted in the New Testament,
since we find that they are very badly "set;" take as a specimen those referred to in Matthew
i. and ii. If we refer to Is. vii., from whence the prophecy is taken, we shall see the wresting
of the passage which is necessary to make it into a "Messianic prophecy." Ahaz, king of Judah,
is hard pressed by the kings of Samaria and Syria, and he is promised deliverance by the Lord,
before the virgin's son, Immanuel, should be of an age to discern between good and evil. How
Ahaz could be given as a sign of a birth which was not to take place until more than 700 years
afterwards, it is hard to say, nor can we believe that Ahaz was not delivered from his enemies
until Jesus was old enough to know right from wrong. According to the Gospels, the name "Immanuel"
was never given to Jesus, and in the prophecy is bestowed on the child simply as a promise
that, "God" being "with us," Judah should be delivered from its foes. The same child is clearly
spoken of as the child of Isaiah and his wife in Is. viii. 3, 4; and in verses 6-8 we find
that the two kings of Samaria and Syria are to be conquered by the king of Assyria, who shall
fill "thy land, O Immanuel!" thus referring distinctly to the promised child as living in that
time. The Hebrew word translated "virgin" does not, as we have already shown, mean "a pure
virgin," as translated in the Septuagint. It is used for a young woman, a marriageable woman,
or even to describe a woman who is being embraced by a man. Micah's supposed prophecy in Matt.
ii. 5, 6, is as inapplicable to Christ as that of Isaiah. Turning back to Micah, we find that
he "that is to be ruler in Israel" shall be born in Bethlehem, but Jesus was never ruler in
Israel, and the description cannot therefore be applied to him; besides, finishing the passage
in Micah (v. 5) we read that this same ruler "shall be the peace when the Assyrian shall come
into our land," so that the prophecy has a local and immediate fulfilment in the circumstances
of the time. Matthew ii. 15 is only made into a prophecy by taking the second half of a historical
reference in Hosea to the Exodus of Israel from Egypt; it would be as reasonable to prove in
this fashion that the Bible teaches a denial of God, "as is spoken by David the prophet, There
is no God." The fulfilment of the saying of Jeremy the prophet is as true as all the preceding
(verses 17, 18); Jeremy bids Rahel not to weep for the children who are carried into bondage,
"for they shall come again from the land of the enemy ... thy children shall come again to
their own border" (Jer. xxxi. 16, 17). Very applicable to the slaughtered babes, and so honest
of "Matthew" to quote just so much of the "prophecy" as served his purpose, leaving out that
which altered its whole meaning. After these specimens, we are not surprised to find that--unable
to find a prophecy fit to twist to suit his object--our evangelist quietly invents one, and
(verse 23) uses a prophecy which has no existence in what was "spoken by the prophets." It
is needless to go through all the other passages known as Messianic prophecies, for they may
all be dealt with as above; the guiding rule is to refer to the Old Testament in each case,
and not to trust to the quotation as given in the New, and then to read the whole context of
the "prophecy," instead of resting content with the few words which, violently wrested from
their natural meaning, are forced into a superficial resemblance with the story recorded in
the Gospels.

The second theory, which regards Jesus as a new hero of the ancient sun-worship, is full of
intensest interest. Dupuis, in his great work on sun-worship ("Origines de Tous les Cultes")
has drawn out in detail the various sun-myths, and has pointed to their common features. Briefly
stated, these points are as follows: the hero is born about Dec. 25th, without sexual intercourse,
for the sun, entering the winter solstice, emerges in the sign of Virgo, the heavenly virgin.
His mother remains ever-virgin, since the rays of the sun, passing through the zodiacal sign,
leave it intact. His infancy is begirt with dangers, because the new-born sun is feeble in
the midst of the winter's fogs and mists, which threaten to devour him; his life is one of
toil and peril, culminating at the spring equinox in a final struggle with the powers of darkness.
At that period the day and the night are equal, and both fight for the mastery; though the
night veil the sun, and he seems dead; though he has descended out of sight, below the earth,
yet he rises again triumphant, and he rises in the sign of the Lamb, and is thus the Lamb of
God, carrying away the darkness and death of the winter months. Henceforth, he triumphs, growing
ever stronger and more brilliant. He ascends into the zenith, and there he glows, "on the right
hand of God," himself God, the very substance of the Father, the brightness of his glory, and
the "express image of his person," "upholding all things" by his heat and his life-giving power;
thence he pours down life and warmth on his worshippers, giving them his very self to be their
life; his substance passes into the grape and the corn, the sustainers of health; around him
are his twelve followers, the twelve signs of the zodiac, the twelve months of the year; his
day, the Lord's Day, is Sunday, the day of the Sun, and his yearly course, ever renewed, is
marked each year, by the renewed memorials of his career. The signs appear in the long array
of sun-heroes, making the succession of deities, old in reality, although new-named.

It may be worth noting that Jesus is said to be born at Bethlehem, a word that Dr. Inman translates
as the house "of the hot one" ("Ancient Faiths," vol. i., p. 358; ed. 1868); Bethlehem is generally
translated "house of bread," and the doubt arises from the Hebrew letters being originally
unpointed, and the points--equivalent to vowel sounds--being inserted in later times; this
naturally gives rise to great latitude of interpretation, the vowels being inserted whenever
the writer or translator thinks they ought to come in, or where the traditionary reading requires
them (see Part 1., pp. 13, and 31, 32).

Each point in the story of Jesus may be paralleled in earlier tales; the birth of Krishna was
prophesied of; he was born of Devaki, although she was shut up in a tower, and no man was permitted
to approach her. His birth was hymned by the Devas--the Hindoo equivalent for angels--and a
bright light shone round where he was. He was pursued by the wrath of the tyrant king, Kansa,
who feared that Krishna would supplant him in the kingdom. The infants of the district were
massacred, but Krishna miraculously escaped. He was brought up among the poor until he reached
maturity. He preached a pure morality, and went about doing good. He healed the leper, the
sick, the injured, and he raised the dead. His head was anointed by a woman; he washed the
feet of the Brahmins; he was persecuted, and finally slain, being crucified. He went down into
hell, rose again from the dead, and ascended into heaven (see "Asiatic Researches," vol. i.;
on "The Gods of Greece, Italy, and India," by Sir William Jones, an essay which, though very
imperfect, has much in it that is highly instructive). He is pictorially represented as standing
on the serpent, the type of evil; his foot crushes its head, while the fang of the serpent
pierces his heel; also, with a halo round his head, this halo being always the symbol of the
Sun-god; also, with his hands and feet pierced--the sacred stigmata--and with a hole in his
side. In fact, some of the representations of him could not be distinguished from the representations
of the crucified Jesus.

The name of "Krishna" is by Sir William Jones, and by many others written "Crishna," and I
have seen it spelt "Cristna." The resemblance it bears, when thus written, to "Christ" is apparent
only, there is no etymological similarity. Krishna is derived from the Sanscrit "Krish," to
scrape, to draw, to colour. Krishna means black, or violet-coloured; Christ comes from the
Greek [Greek: christos] the anointed. Colonel Vallancy, Sir W. Jones tells us, informed him
that "Crishna" in Irish means the Sun ("As. Res.," p. 262; ed. 1801); and there is no doubt
that the Hindu Krishna is a Sun-god; the "violet-coloured" might well be a reference to the
deep blue of the summer sky.

If Moses be a type of Christ, must not Bacchus be admitted to the same honour? In the ancient
Orphic verses it was said that he was born in Arabia; picked up in a box that floated on the
water; was known by the name of Mises, as "drawn from the water;" had a rod which he could
change into a serpent, and by means of which he performed miracles; leading his army, he passed
the Red Sea dryshod; he divided the rivers Orontes and Hydaspes with his rod; he drew water
from a rock; where he passed the land flowed with wine, milk, and honey (see "Diegesis," pp.
178, 179).

The name Christ Jesus is simply the anointed Saviour, or else Chrestos Jesus, the good Saviour;
a title not peculiar to Jesus of Nazareth. We find Hesus, Jesous, Yes or Ies. This last name,
[Greek: Iaes], was one of the titles of Bacchus, and the simple termination "us" makes it "Jesus;"
from this comes the sacred monogram I.H.S., really the Greek [Greek: UAeS]--IES; the Greek
letter [Greek: Ae], which is the capital E, has by ignorance been mistaken for the Latin H,
and the ancient name of Bacchus has been thus transformed into the Latin monogram of Jesus.
In both cases the letters are surrounded with a halo, the sun-rays, symbolical of the sun-deity
to whom they refer. This halo surrounds the heads of gods who typify the sun, and is continually
met with in Indian sculptures and paintings.

Hercules, with his twelve labours, is another source of Christian fable. "It is well known
that by Hercules, in the physical mythology of the heathens, was meant the Sun, or solar light,
and his twelve famous labours have been referred to the sun's passing through the twelve zodiacal
signs; and this, perhaps, not without some foundation. (Parkhurst's "Hebrew Lexicon," page
520; ed. 1813). As the story of Hercules came first in time, it must be either a prophecy of
Christ, an inadmissible supposition, or else of the sources whence the story of Christ has
been drawn.

Aesculapius, the heathen "Good Physician," and "the good Saviour," healed the sick and raised
the dead. He was the son of God and of Coronis, and was guarded by a goatherd.

Prometheus is another forerunner of Christ, stretched in cruciform position on the rocks, tormented
by Jove, the Father, because he brought help to man, and winning for man, by his agony, light
and knowledge.

Osiris, the great Egyptian God, has much in common with the Christian Jesus. He was both god
and man, and once lived on earth. He was slain by the evil Typhon, but rose again from the
dead. After his resurrection he became the Judge of all men. Once a year the Egyptians used
to celebrate his death, mourning his slaying by the evil one: "this grief for the death of
Osiris did not escape some ridicule; for Xenophanes, the Ionian, wittily remarked to the priests
of Memphis, that if they thought Osiris a man they should not worship him, and if they thought
him a God they need not talk of his death and suffering.... Of all the gods Osiris alone had
a place of birth and a place of burial. His birthplace was Mount Sinai, called by the Egyptians
Mount Nyssa. Hence was derived the god's Greek name Dionysus, which is the same as the Hebrew
Jehovah-Nissi" ("Egyptian Mythology and Egyptian Christianity," by Samuel Sharpe, pp. 10, 11;
ed. 1863). Various places claimed the honour of his burial. "Serapis" was a god's name, formed
out of "Osiris" and "Apis," the sacred bull, and we find (see ante, p. 206) that the Emperor
Adrian wrote that the "worshippers of Serapis are Christians," and that bishops of Serapis
were bishops of Christ; although the stories differ in detail, as is natural, since the Christian
tale is modified by other myths--Osiris, for instance, is married--the general outline is the
same. We shall see, in Section II., how thoroughly Pagan is the origin of Christianity.

We find the Early Fathers ready enough to claim these analogies, in order to recommend their
religion. Justin Martyr argues: "When we say that the word, who is the first birth of God,
was produced without sexual union, and that he, Jesus Christ, our teacher, was crucified and
died, and rose again, and ascended into heaven, we propound nothing different from what you
believe regarding those whom you esteem sons of Jupiter. For you know how many sons your esteemed
writers ascribe to Jupiter; Mercury, the interpreting word and teacher of all; Aesculapius,
who, though he was a great physician, was struck by a thunderbolt, and so ascended to heaven;
and Bacchus too, after he had been torn limb from limb; and Hercules, when he had committed
himself to the flames to escape his toils; and the sons of Leda, the Dioscuri; and Perseus,
son of Danae; and Bellerophon, who, though sprung from mortals, rose to heaven on the horse
Pegasus" ("First Apology," ch. xxi.). "If we assert that the Word of God was born of God in
a peculiar manner, different from ordinary generation, let this, as said above, be no extraordinary
thing to you, who say that Mercury is the angelic word of God. But if anyone objects that he
was crucified, in this also he is on a par with those reputed sons of Jupiter of yours, who
suffered as we have now enumerated.... And if we even affirm that he was born of a virgin,
accept this in common with what you accept of Perseus. And in that we say that he made whole
the lame, the paralytic, and those born blind, we seem to say what is very similar to the deeds
said to have been done by AEsculapius" (Ibid, ch. xxi.). "Plato, in like manner, used to say
that Rhadamanthus and Minos would punish the wicked who came before them; and we say that the
same thing will be done, but at the hand of Christ" (Ibid, ch. viii.) In ch. liv. Justin argues
that the devils invented all these gods in order that when Christ came his story should be
thought to be another marvellous tale like its predecessors! (as quoted in R. Taylor's "Diegesis,"
p. 241). That the doctrines of Christianity had the same origin as the story of Christ, and
the miracles ascribed to him, we shall prove under section ii., while section iii. will prove
the same as to his morality. Judge Strange fairly says: "The Jewish Scriptures and the traditionary
teaching of their doctors, the Essenes and Therapeuts, the Greek philosophers, the neo-platonism
of Alexandria, and the Buddhism of the East, gave ample supplies for the composition of the
doctrinal portion of the new faith; the divinely procreated personages of the Grecian and Roman
pantheons, the tales of the Egyptian Osiris, and of the Indian Rama, Krishna, and Buddha, furnished
the materials for the image of the new saviour of mankind; and every surrounding mythology
poured forth samples of the 'mighty works' that were to be attributed to him to attract and
enslave his followers: and thus, first from Judaism, and finally from the bosom of heathendom,
we have our matured expression of Christianity" ("The Portraiture and Mission of Jesus," p. 27).

We have thus examined, step by step, the alleged evidences of Christianity, both external and
internal; we have found it impossible to rely on its external witnesses, while the internal
testimony is fatal to its claims; it is, at once, unauthenticated without, and incredible within.
After earnest study, and a careful balancing of proofs, we find ourselves forced to assert
that THE EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY ARE UNRELIABLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

APPROXIMATE DATES CLAIMED FOR THE CHIEF CHRISTIAN AND HERETICAL AUTHORITIES.

A.D.

Between 92 and 125         Clement of Rome         Very doubtful
Between 90 and 138         Barnabas                  "     "
Said to be martyred 107    Ignatius                  "     "
Between 117 and 138        Quadratus                 "     "
Possibly 138               Hermas                    "     "
About 150-170              Papias                    "     "
About 135-145              Basilides and             "     "
                             Valentinus
About 140-160              Marcion
Said to be martyred 166    Polycarp                 Very doubtful
Said to be martyred 166    Justin Martyr
After 166                  Hegesippus
About 177                  Epistle of Lyons
                             and Vienne
Between 150 and 290        Clementines              Real date quite unknown
Between 166 and 176        Dionysius of Corinth
About 176                  Athenagoras
Between 170 and 175        Tatian
177 to about 200           Irenæus
About 193                  Tertullian
About 200                  Celsus                   Very doubtful
205                        Clement of Alexandria
                             succeeded as head of
                             School.
About 205                  Porphyry
205-249                    Origen

THE SO-CALLED TEN PERSECUTIONS.

A.D. 61 under Nero 81    "  Domitian 107   "  Trajan 166   "  Marcus Aurelius 193   "  Severus
235 under Maximin 249   "   Decius 254   "   Valerian 272   "   Aurelian 303   "   Diocletian

DATES OF ROMAN EMPERORS.

AT ALLEGED BIRTH OF CHRIST.

Augustus Cæsar

A.D.
14 Tiberius
33 Caligula
41 Claudius
54 Nero
68 Galba
   Otho
69 Vitellius
69 Vespasian
79 Titus
81 Domitian
96 Nerva
98 Trajan associated
117 Hadrian
138 Antoninus Pius
161 Marcus Aurelius
180 Commodus
192 Pertinax
193 Julian
    Severus
211 Caracalla and Geta
217 Macrinus
218 Heliogabalus
222 Alexander Severus
235 Maximin
237 The Gordians
    Maximus and Galbinus
238 Maximus, Galbinus, and Gordian
238 Gordian alone
244 Philip
249 Decius
251 Gallus
253 Valerian
260 Gallienus
268 Claudius
270 Aurelian
275 Tacitus
276 Florianus
276 Probus
282 Carus
283 Carinus and Numerian
285 Diocletian
286 Maximian associated
305 Galerius and Constantius
    305 Severus and Maximin
306 Constantine
    Licinius
    Maxentius
324 Constantine alone

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX TO SECTION I. OF PART II.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX OF BOOKS USED.

Adrian...206
   " quoted by Meredith...225
Agbarus, letter of, in Eusebius...243
Akiba, quoted in Keim...315
Alford, Greek Testament...288
Apostolic Fathers...215, 216, 217, 218, 220, 221, 230
Athenagoras, Apology...226
Augustine, Syntagma, quoted in Diegesis...234

Barnabas, Epistle of...233, 302 Besant, According to St. John...337 Butler, Lives of the Fathers,
etc...324

Caecilius, quoted in Diegesis...348
Celsus, quoted by Norton...233
Clement, First Epistle...233, 299, 300, 301
Clementine, Homilies...310
   " quoted in Supernatural Religion...301
Corpus Ignatianum, quoted in Apostolic Fathers...218

Davidson, Introduction to New Testament...286, 294, 295, 296, 298

Ellicott, quoted in Cowper's Apocryphal Gospels...250

Epictetus...206
Epiphanius, quoted by Norton...297
Eusebius, Ecclesiastical History...216, 230, 231, 234, 243, 246, 248
                                   250, 257, 260, 277, 279, 284, 290
                                             291, 292, 294, 321, 323
   " quoted in Apostolic Fathers...217

Faustus, quoted in Diegesis...284

Gibbon, Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire...195, 206, 209, 112
                                                    213, 227, 322
Giles, Christian Records...197, 207, 230, 259, 261, 263, 265
                                267, 276, 288, 293, 297, 313, 328
                                                         335, 336

Hegesippus, quoted in Supernatural Religion...302 Home, Introduction to New Testament...197, 203

Ignatius, Epistle to the Smyrnaeans...220
   "          "             Ephesians...233
   "          "             Philippians...302
Inman, Ancient Faiths...344
Irenæus, Against Heresies...258, 291, 323, 336
   " quoted in Keim...234
   " quoted in Eusebius...258

Jones, The Canon of the New Testament...240, 245, 257
Jones, Sir W., Asiatic Researches...345
Josephus, Antiquities of the Jews...195, 198, 315
   " Wars of the Jews...317
   " Discourse on Hades...198
Justin Martyr, First Apology...231, 253, 302, 347
   "           Second Apology...226, 323
   "           Dialogue with Trypho...231, 275, 302, 310
Juvenal...203

Keim, Jesus of Nazara...197, 202, 315

Lardner, Answer to Dr. Chandler, quoted from
               Diegesis...196
   "     Credibility of the
               Gospels...209, 210, 211, 216, 218
                                   230, 263, 269
Livy...222

Marcus Aurelius...206
Marsh, quoted in Norton...267
   " quoted in Giles...287
Meredith, Prophet of Nazareth...223
Mosheim, Ecclesiastical
            History...214, 216, 217, 235, 237, 238, 239
Muratori, Canon of...282

Nicodemus, Gospel of...253
Norton, Genuineness of the Gospels...215, 216, 219, 247,
                                          263, 269, 295

Origen, quoted in Gibbon...213
   "       "      Diegesis...234
   "       "      Supernatural Religion...323

Paley, Evidences of Christianity...198, 202, 203, 205
                      208, 209, 210, 212, 228, 229, 231
                      235, 236, 243, 244, 247, 248, 260
                      262, 269, 273, 281, 290, 309, 317
                                                   319
Papias, quoted by Eusebius...291
   "              Irenæus...291
Parkhurst, Hebrew Lexicon...346
Pliny, Epistles...203
Pilate, Acts of...253

Quadratus, quoted by Eusebius...230

Renan, Vie de Jésus...197 Row, The Supernatural in the New Testament...325, 327

Sanday, Gospels in the Second Century...248, 269, 270
                      279, 287, 298, 300, 302, 305, 311
Scott, English Life of Jesus...334
Sharpe, Egyptian Mythology...347
Smyrna, Circular Epistle of the Church of...221
Strange, Portraiture and Mission of Jesus...198, 201, 210
                                               321, 348
Strauss, Life of Jesus...289, 312, 320, 330, 331, 332
Suetonius...201, 202, 225
Supernatural Religion... 215, 216, 219, 229, 246, 247, 248
                      249, 260, 261, 266, 268, 269, 271
                      276, 278, 279, 280, 281, 282, 283
                      290, 292, 293, 295, 301, 302, 303
                                          304, 322, 325

Tacitus, Annals...199, 222, 225
Taylor, Diegesis...196, 200, 201, 205, 206, 208, 212, 346
Tertullian, Apology...226
    "       De Spectaculis...323
    "       quoted in Gibbon...213
    "          "      Meredith...225
Thomas, Gospel of...251
Tischendorf, When were our Gospels Written?...248, 270

Westcott, On the Canon of the New Testament...216, 229, 247, 249
                                              256, 268, 270, 274
                                              275, 278, 286

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX OF SUBJECTS.

Analogies of Christian doctrines...347
Apocryphal Gospels, specimens of...250
   "       Books, recognised...245
Authenticity of Apology of Quadratus...230
   "            Epistle of Barnabas...229
   "                "      Clement...214
   "                "      Ignatius...217
   "                "      Polycarp...216
   "                "      Smyrna...220
   "            Vision of Hermas...216

Books read in churches...248
   "  in volume of Scriptures...249

Christian Agapae...223 Christianity advantageous to tyrants...237

Date of birth of Christ...333 Dates of Fathers, etc...349 Dates of Roman Emperors...350 Diatessaron
of Tatian...259

Evidence of Adrian...206
   "        Apostolic Fathers...263, 267
   "        Barnabas...268
   "        Basilides and Valentinus...280
   "        Canon of Muratori...282
   "        Clement ...269
   "        Clementines...279
   "        Hegesippus...277
   "        Hermas...269
   "        Ignatius...270
   "        Josephus...195
   "        Justin Martyr...271
   "        Marcion...281
   "        Marcus Aurelius...206
   "        Papias...271
   "        Pliny...203
   "        Polycarp...270
   "        Suetonius...201
   "        Tacitus...199

Forgeries in Early Church...238
    "        List of...240
Four Gospels: when recognised...257
    "         why only four...258

Gospels, changes made in...283
    "    contradictions in...328
    "    contradictions between synoptical and fourth...337
    "    growth of...285, 289
    "    identity of modern and ancient unproven...262
    "    many current...266
    "    of later origin...311
    "    of Matthew and Mark not those of Papias...290
    "    original, different from canonical...298
    "    similarity of canonical and uncanonical...245
    "    synoptical...286
    "    time of selection unknown...256
Genealogies of Jesus...328
Greek not commonly known by Jews...314

Ignorance of Early Fathers...232

Krishna, meaning of...345

Length of Jesus' Ministry..336 Life of Christ from Justin Martyr...306

Martyrs, small number of...212 Massacre of infants unlikely...333 Matthew, written in Hebrew...394
Miracles...316 Morality of Early Christians...221 Mythical Theory of Jesus...340

Passages in Fathers, not in canonical Gospels...301
Persecution, absence of...209
Phrase "it is written"...247
Positions laid down as to Gospels...236
Position A...238
    "    B...245
    "    C...256
    "    D...257
    "    E...261
    "    F...262
    "    G...290
    "    H...298
    "    I...311
    "    J...314
    "    K...316
Prophecies, Messianic...342

Silence of Jewish writers...198, 201, 259
    "      Pagan     " ...193, 206
Story of Christ pre-Christian...340
Son-worship and Christ...343

Temptation of Christ...334 Ten Persecutions...350 Types of Christ...345

SECTION II.--ITS ORIGIN PAGAN.

There are two ancient and widely-spread creeds to which we must chiefly look for the origin
of Christianity, namely, Sun-worship and Nature-worship. It is doubtful which of the twain
is the elder, and they are closely intertwined, the central idea of each being the same; personally,
I am inclined to think that Nature-worship is the older of the two, because it is the simpler
and the nearer; the barbarian, slowly emerging into humanity, would be more likely to worship
the force which was the most immediately wonderful to him, the power of generation of new life;
to recognise the sun as the great life producer seems to imply some little growth of reason
and of imagination; sun-worship seems the idealisation of nature-worship, for the same generative
force is adored in both, and round the idea of this production of new life all creeds revolve.
Christian symbols and Christian ceremonies speak as plainly to the student of ancient religions
as the stars speak to the astronomer, and the rocks to the geologian; Christian Churches are
as full of the fossil relics of the old creeds as are the earth's strata of the bones of extinct
animals. We shall expect to find, then, a family resemblance running through all Eastern creeds--of
which Christianity is one--and we shall not be surprised to find similar symbols expressing
similar ideas; there are, in fact, cardinal symbols re-appearing in all these allied religions;
the virgin and child; the trinity in unity; the cross; these have their roots struck deep in
human nature, and are found in every Eastern creed. So also can we trace sacraments and ceremonies,
and many minor dogmas. In looking back into those ancient creeds it is necessary to get rid
of the modern fashion of regarding any natural object as immodest. Sir William Jones justly
remarks that in Hindustan "it never seems to have entered the heads of the legislators, or
people, that anything natural could be offensively obscene; a singularity which pervades all
their writings and conversation, but is no proof of depravity in their morals" ("Asiatic Researches,"
vol. i., p. 255). Gross injustice is sometimes done to ancient creeds by contemplating them
from a modern point of view; in those days every power of Nature was thought divine, and most
divine of all was deemed the power of creation, whether worshipped in the sun, whose beams
impregnated the earth, or in the male and female organs of generation, the universal creators
of life in the animal world; thus we find in all ancient sculptures carvings of the phallus
and the yoni, expressed both naturally and symbolically, the representations becoming more
and more conventional and refined as civilisation advanced; of the infant world it may be said
that it was "naked, and was not ashamed;" as it grew older, and clothed the human form, it
also draped its religious symbols, but as the body remains unaltered under its garments, so
the idea concealed beneath the emblems remains the same.

The union of male and female is, then, the foundation of all religions; the heaven marries
the earth, as man marries woman, and that union is the first marriage. Saturn is the sky, the
male, or active energy; Rhea is the earth, the female, or receptive; and these are the father
and the mother of all. The Persians of old called the sky Jupiter, or Jupater, "Ju the Father."
The sun is the agent of the generative power of the sky, and his beams fecundate the earth,
so that from her all life is produced. Thus the sun becomes worshipped as the Father of all,
and the sun is the emblem which crowns the images of the Supreme God; the vernal equinox is
the resurrection of the sun, and the sign of the zodiac in which he then is becomes the symbol
of his life-producing power; thus the bull, and afterwards the ram, became his sign as Life-Giver,
and the Sun-god was pictured as bull, or as ram (or lamb), or else with the horns of his, emblem,
and the earthly animals became sacred for his sake. Mithra, the Sun-god of Persia, is sculptured
as riding on a bull; Osiris, the Sun-god of Egypt, wears the horns of the bull, and is worshipped
as Osiris-Apis, or Serapis, the Sun-god in the sign of Apis, the bull. Later, by the precession
of the equinoxes, the sun at the vernal equinox has passed into the sign of the ram (called
in Persia, the lamb), and we find Jupiter Ammon, Jupiter with ram's horns, and Jesus the Lamb
of God. These symbols all denote the sun victorious over darkness and death, giving life to
the world. The phallus is the other great symbol of the Life-Giver, generating life in woman,
as the sun in the earth. Bacchus, Adonis, Dionysius, Apollo, Hercules, Hermes, Thammuz, Jupiter,
Jehovah, Jao, or Jah, Moloch, Baal, Asher, Mahadeva, Brahma, Vishnu, Mithra, Atys, Ammon, Belus,
with many another, these are all the Life-Giver under different names; they are the Sun, the
Creator, the Phallus. Red is their appropriate colour. When the sun or the Phallus is not drawn
in its natural form, it is indicated by a symbol: the symbol must be upright, hard, or else
burning, either conical, or clubbed at one end. Thus--the torch, flame of fire, cone, serpent,
thyrsus, triangle, letter T, cross, crosier, sceptre, caduceus, knobbed stick, tall tree, upright
stone, spire, tower, minaret, upright pole, arrow, spear, sword, club, upright stump, etc.,
are all symbols of the generative force of the male energy in Nature of the Supreme God.

One of the most common, and the most universally used, is THE CROSS. Carved at first simply
as phallus, it was gradually refined; we meet it as three balls, one above the two; the letter
T indicated it, which, by the slightest alteration, became the cross now known as the Latin:
thus "Barnabas" says that "the cross was to express the grace by the letter T" (ante, p. 233).
We find the cross in India, Egypt, Thibet, Japan, always as the sign of life-giving power;
it was worn as an amulet by girls and women, and seems to have been specially worn by the women
attached to the temples, as a symbol of what was, to them, a religious calling. The cross is,
in fact, nothing but the refined phallus, and in the Christian religion is a significant emblem
of its Pagan origin; it was adored, carved in temples, and worn as a sacred emblem by sun and
nature worshippers, long before there were any Christians to adore, carve, and wear it. The
crowd kneeling before the cross in Roman Catholic and in High Anglican Churches, is a simple
reproduction of the crowd who knelt before it in the temples of ancient days, and the girls
who wear it amongst ourselves, are--in the most innocent unconsciousness of its real signification--exactly
copying the Indian and Egyptian women of an elder time. Saturn's symbol was a cross and a ram's
horn. Jupiter bore a cross with a horn. Venus a circle with a cross. The Egyptian deities a
cross and oval. (The signification of these will be dealt with below.) The Druids sought oak
trees with two main arms growing in shape of a cross, and, if they failed to find such, nailed
a beam cross-wise. The chief pagodas in India are built, like many Christian churches, in the
form of a cross. I have read in a book on church architecture that churches should be built
either in the form of a cross, or else in that of a ship, typifying the ark; i.e., they should
either be built in the form of the phallus or the yoni, the ship or ark being one of the symbols
of the female energy (see below, p. 361).

The CRUCIFIX, or cross with human figure stretched upon it, is also found in ancient times,
although not so frequently as the simple cross. The crucifix appears to have arisen from the
circle of the horizon being divided into four parts, North, South, East, and West, and the
Sun-god, drawn within, or on, the circle, came into contact with each cardinal point, his feet
and head touching, or intersecting, two, while his outstretched arms point to the other quarters.
Krishna is painted and sculptured on a cross. The Egyptians thus drew Osiris, and sometimes
we find a circle drawn with the dividing lines, and in the midst is stretched the dead body
of Osiris. Robert Taylor gives another origin for the crucifix: "The ignorant gratitude of
a superstitious people, while they adored the river [Nile] on whose inundations the fertility
of their provinces depended, could not fail of attaching notions of sanctity and holiness to
the posts that were erected along its course, and which, by a transverse beam, indicated the
height to which, at the spot where the beam was fixed, the waters might be expected to rise.
This cross at once warned the traveller to secure his safety, and formed a standard of the
value of land. Other rivers may add to the fertility of the country through which they pass,
but the Nile is the absolute cause of that great fertility of the Lower Egypt, which would
be all a desert, as bad as the most sandy parts of Africa without this river. It supplies it
both with soil and moisture, and was therefore gratefully addressed, not merely as an ordinary
river-god, but by its express title of the Egyptian Jupiter. The crosses, therefore, along
the banks of the river would naturally share in the honour of the stream, and be the most expressive
emblem of good fortune, peace, and plenty. The two ideas could never be separated: the fertilising
flood was the waters of life, that conveyed every blessing, and even existence itself, to the
provinces through which they flowed. One other and most obvious hieroglyph completed the expressive
allegory. The Demon of Famine, who, should the waters fail of their inundation, or not reach
the elevation indicated by the position of the transverse beam upon the upright, would reign
in all his horrors over their desolated lands. His crown of thorns indicated the sterility
of the territories over which he reigned. The reed in his hand, gathered from the banks of
the Nile, indicated that it was only the mighty river, by keeping within its banks, and thus
withholding its wonted munificence, that placed an unreal sceptre in his gripe. He was nailed
to the cross, in indication of his entire defeat. And the superscription of his infamous title,
'THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS,' expressively indicated that Famine, Want, or Poverty, ruled
the destinies of the most slavish, beggarly, and mean race of men with whom they had the honour
of being acquainted" ("Diegesis," p. 187). While it may very likely be true that the miserable
aspect given to Jesus crucified is copied from some such original as Mr. Taylor here sketches,
we are tolerably certain that the general idea of the crucifix had the solar origin described
above.

Very closely joined to the notion of the cross is the idea of the TRINITY IN UNITY, and we
need not delay upon it long. It is as universal in Eastern religions as the cross, and comes
from the same idea; all life springs from a trinity in unity in man, and, therefore, God is
three in one. This trinity is, of course, symbolised by the cross, and especially by the lotus,
and any "three in one" leaf; from this has come to Christianity the conventional triple foliage
so constantly seen in Church carvings, the fleur-de-lis, the triangle, etc., which are now--as
of old--accepted as the emblems of the trinity. The persons of the trinity are found each with
his own name; in India, Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, and it is Vishnu who becomes incarnate; in Egypt
different cities had different trinities, and "we have a hieroglyphical inscription in the
British Museum as early as the reign of Sevechus of the eighth century before the Christian
era, showing that the doctrine of Trinity in Unity already formed part of their religion, and
that in each of the two groups last mentioned the three gods only made one person" ("Egyptian
Mythology and Egyptian Christology," by S. Sharpe, p. 14). Mr. Sharpe might have gone to much
earlier times and "already" have found the adoration of the trinity in unity; as far back as
the first who bowed in worship before the generative force of the male three in one. Osiris,
Horus, and Ra form one of the Egyptian trinities; Horus the Son, is also one of a trinity in
unity made into an amulet, and called the Great God, the Son God, and the Spirit God. Horus
is the slayer of Typhon, the evil one, and is sometimes represented as standing on its head,
and as piercing its head with a spear, reminding us of Krishna, the incarnation of Vishnu,
the second person of the Indian Trinity.

These trinities, however, were not complete in themselves, for the female element is needed
for the production of life; hence, we find that in most nations a fourth person is joined to
the trinity, as Isis, the mother of Horus, in Egypt, and Mary, the mother of Jesus, in Christendom;
the Egyptian trinity is often represented as Osiris, Horus, and Isis, but we more generally
find the female constituting the fourth element, in addition to the triune, and symbolised
by an oval, or circle, typical of the female organ of reproduction; thus the crux ansata of
the Egyptians, the "symbol of life" held in the hand by the Egyptian deities, is a cross or
oval, i.e., the T with an oval at the top; the circle with the cross inside, symbolises, again,
the male and female union; also the six-rayed star, the pentacle, the double triangle, the
triangle and circle, the pit with a post in it, the key, the staff with a half-moon, the complicated
cross. The same union is imaged out in all androgynous deities, in Elohim, Baalim, Baalath,
Arba-il, the bearded Venus, the feminine Jove, the virgin and child. In countries where the
Yoni worship was more popular than that of the Phallus, the VIRGIN and CHILD was a favourite
deity, and to this we now turn.

Here, as in the history of the cross, we find sun and nature worship intertwined. The female
element is sometimes the Earth, and sometimes the individual. The goddesses are as various
in names as the gods. Is, Isis, Ishtar, Astarte, Mylitta, Sara, Mrira, Maia, Parvati, Mary,
Miriam, Eve, Juno, Venus, Diana, Artemis, Aphrodite, Hera, Rhea, Cybele, Ceres, and others,
are the earth under many names; the receptive female, the producer of life, the Yoni. Black
is the special colour of female deities, and the black Isis and Horus, the black Mary and Jesus
are of peculiar sanctity. Their emblems are: the earth, moon, star of the sea, circle, oval,
triangle, pomegranate, door, ark, fish, ship, horseshoe, chasm, cave, hole, celestial virgin,
etc. They bore first the titles now worn by Mary, the virgin mother of Jesus, and were reverenced
as the "queen of heaven." Ishtar, of Babylonia, was the "Mother of the Gods," and the "Queen
of the Stars." Isis, of Egypt, was "our Immaculate Lady." She was figured with a crown of stars,
and with the crescent moon. Venus was an ark brooded over by a dove, or the moon floating on
the water. They are "the mother," "mamma," "emma," "ummah," or "the woman." The symbols are
everywhere the same, though given with different names. Everywhere it is Mary, the mother;
the female principle in nature, adored side by side with the male. She shares in the work of
creation and salvation, and has a kind of equality with the Father of all; hence we hear of
the immaculate conception. She produces a child alone in some stories, without even divine
co-operation. The Virgo of the Zodiac is represented in ancient sculptures and drawings as
a woman suckling a child, and the Paamylian feasts were celebrated at the spring equinox, and
were the equivalent of the Christian feast of the Annunciation, when the power of the highest
overshadowed Mary of Nazareth. Thus in India, we have Devaki and Krishna; in Egypt, Osiris
and Horus--the "Saviour of the World;" in Christendom, Mary and Christ; the pictures and carvings
of India and Egypt would be indistinguishable from those of Europe, were it not for the differences
of dress. Apis, the sacred Egyptian bull, was always born without an earthly father, and his
mother never had a second calf. So the later Sun-god, Jesus, is born without sexual intercourse,
and Mary never bears another child. Jupiter visits Leda as a swan; God visits Mary as an overshadowing
dove. The salutation of Gabriel to Mary is curiously like that of Mercury to Electra: "Hail,
most happy of all women, you whom Jupiter has honoured with his couch; your blood will give
laws to the world, I am the messenger of the gods." The mother of Fohi, the great Chinese God,
became enceinte by walking in the footsteps of a giant. The mother of Hercules did not lose
her virginity. The savages of St. Domingo represented the chief divinity by a female figure
called the "mother of God." On Friday, the day of Freya, or Venus, many Christians still eat
only fish, fish being sacred to the female deity.

In Comtism we find the latest development of woman-worship, wherein the "emotional sex" becomes
the sacred sex, to be guarded, cherished, sustained, adored; and thus in the youngest religion
the stamp of the eldest is found.

Thus womanhood has been worshipped in all ages of the world, and maternity has been deified
by all creeds: from the savage who bowed before the female symbol of motherhood, to the philosophic
Comtist who adores woman "in the past, the present, and the future," as mother, wife, and daughter,
the worship of the female element in nature has run side by side with that of the male; the
worship is one and the same in all religions, and runs in an unbroken thread from the barbarous
ages to the present time.

The doctrines of the mediation, and the divinity of Christ, and of the immortality of the soul,
are as pre-Christian as the symbols which we have examined.

The idea of the Mediator comes to us from Persia, and the title was borne by Mithra before
it was ascribed to Christ. Zoroaster taught that there was existence itself, the unknown, the
eternal, "Zeruane Akerne," "time without bounds." From this issued Ormuzd, the good, the light,
the creator of all. Opposite to Ormuzd is Ahriman, the bad, the dark, the deformer of all.
Between these two great deities comes Mithra, the Mediator, who is the Reconciler of all things
to God, who is one with Ormuzd, although distinct from him. Mithra, as we have seen, is the
Sun in the sign of the Bull, exactly parallel to Jesus, the Sun in the sign of the Lamb, both
the one and the other being symbolised by that sign of the zodiac in which the sun was at the
spring equinox of his supposed date. "Mithras is spiritual light contending with spiritual
darkness, and through his labours the kingdom of darkness shall be lit with heaven's own light;
the Eternal will receive all things back into his favour, the world will be redeemed to God.
The impure are to be purified, and the evil made good, through the mediation of Mithras, the
reconciler of Ormuzd and Ahriman. Mithras is the Good, his name is Love. In relation to the
Eternal he is the source of grace, in relation to man he is the life-giver and mediator. He
brings the 'Word,' as Brahma brings the Vedas, from the mouth of the Eternal. (See Plutarch
'De Isid. et Osirid.;' also Dr. Hyde's 'De Religione Vet. Pers.,' ch. 22; see also 'Essay on
Pantheism,' by Rev. J. Hunt.) It was just prior to the return of the Jews from living among
the people who were dominated by these ideas, that the splendid chapter of Isaiah (xl.), or
indeed the series of chapters which form the closing portion of the book, were written: 'Comfort
ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. It is thus manifest that the inspiration of these
writings came to the Jewish people from their contact with the religious thought of the Persians,
and not from any supernatural source. From this time the Jews began to hold worthier ideas
concerning God, and to cherish expectations of a golden age, a kingdom of heaven, which the
Messiah, who was to be the sent messenger of God, should inaugurate. And this kingdom was to
be a kingdom of righteousness, a day of marvellous light, a rule under which all evil and darkness
were to perish" ("Plato, Philo, and Paul," Rev. J.W. Lake, pp. 15, l6.)

The growth of the philosophical side of the dogma of the Divinity of Christ is as clearly traceable
in Pagan and Jewish thought as is the dogma of the incarnation of the Saviour-God in the myths
of Krishna, Osiris, etc. Two great teachers of the doctrine of the "Logos," the "Word," of
God, stand out in pre-Christian times--the Greek Plato and the Jewish Philo. We borrow the
following extract from pp. 19, 20, of the pamphlet by Mr. Lake above referred to, as showing
the general theological position of Plato; its resemblance to Christian teaching will be at
once apparent (it must not be forgotten that Plato lived B.C. 400):--

"The speculative thought and the religious teaching of Plato are diffused throughout his voluminous
writings; but the following is a popular summary of them, by Madame Dacier, contained in her
introduction to what have been classed as the 'Divine Dialogues:'--

"'That there is but one God, and that we ought to love and serve him, and to endeavour to resemble
him in holiness and righteousness; that this God rewards humility and punishes pride.

"'That the true happiness of man consists in being united to God, and his only misery in being
separated from him.

"'That the soul is mere darkness, unless it be illuminated by God; that men are incapable even
of praying well, unless God teaches them that prayer which alone can be useful to them.

"'That there is nothing solid and substantial but piety; that this is the source of all virtues,
and that it is the gift of God.

"'That it is better to die than to sin.

"'That it is better to suffer wrong than to do it.

"'That the "Word" ([Greek: Logos]) formed the world, and rendered it visible; that the knowledge
of the Word makes us live very happily here below, and that thereby we obtain felicity after death.

"'That the soul is immortal, that the dead shall rise again, that there shall be a final judgment--both
of the righteous and of the wicked, when men shall appear only with their virtues or vices,
which shall be the occasion of their eternal happiness or misery.'"

It is this Logos who was "figured in the shape of a cross on the universe" (ante, p. 358).
The universe, which is but the materialised thought of God, is made by his Logos, his Word,
which is the expression of his thought. In the Christian creed it is the Logos, the Word of
God, by whom all things are made (John i. 1-3). The very name, as well as the thought, is the
same, whether we turn over the pages of Plato or those of John. Philo, the great Jewish Platonist,
living in Alexandria at the close of the last century B.C. and in the first half of the first
century after Christ, speaks of the Logos in terms that, to our ears, seem purely Christian.
Philo was a man of high position among the Jews in Alexandria, being "a man eminent on all
accounts, brother to Alexander the alabarch [governor of the Jews], and one not unskilful in
philosophy" (Josephus' "Antiquities of the Jews," bk. xviii., ch. 8, sec. 1). This "Alexander
was a principal person among all his contemporaries both for his family and wealth" (Ibid,
bk. xx, ch. 5, sec. 2). He was the principal man in the Jewish embassage to Caius (Caligula)
A.D. 39-40, and was then a grey-headed old man. Keim speaks of him as about sixty or seventy
years old at that time, and puts his birth at about B.C. 20. He writes: "The Theology of Philo
is in great measure founded on his peculiar combination of the Jewish, the Platonic, and the
Neo-Platonic conception of God. The God of the Old Testament, the exalted God, as he is called
by the modern Hegelian philosophy, stood in close relations to the Greek Philosophers' conception
of God, which believed that the Supreme Being could be accurately defined by the negative of
all that was finite. In accordance with this, Philo also described God as the simple Entity;
he disclaimed for him every name, every quality, even that of the Good, the Beautiful, the
Blessed, the One. Since he is still better than the good, higher than the Unity, he can never
be known as, but only that, he is: his perfect name is only the four mysterious letters (Jhvh)--that
is, pure Being. By such means, indeed, neither a fuller theology nor God's influence on the
world was to be obtained. And yet it was the problem of philosophy, as well as of religion,
to shed the light of God upon the world, and to lead it again to God. But how could this Being
which was veiled from the world be brought to bear upon it? By Philo, as well as by all the
philosophy of the time, the problem could only be solved illogically. Yet, by modifying his
exalted nature, it might be done. If not by his being, yet by his work he influences the world;
his powers, his angels, all in it that is best and mightiest, the instrument, the interpreter,
the mediator and messenger of God; his pattern and his first-born, the Son of God, the Second
God, even himself God, the divine Word or Logos communicate with the world; he is the ideal
and actual type of the world and of humanity, the architect and upholder of the world, the
manna and the rock in the wilderness" ("Jesus of Nazara," vol. i., pp. 281, 282).

"Man is fallen.... There is no man who is without sin, and even the perfect man, if he should
be born, does not escape from it.... Yet there is a redemption, willed by God himself, and
brought to pass by the act of a wise man. Adam's successors still preserve the types of their
relationship to the Father, although in an obscure form, each man possesses the knowledge of
good and evil and an incorruptible judgment, subject to reason; his spiritual strength is even
now aided by the Divine Logos, the image, copy, and reflection of the blessed nature. Hence
it follows that man can discern and see all the stains with which he has wilfully or involuntarily
defiled his life, that man by means of his self-knowledge can decide to subdue his passions,
to despise his pleasures and desires, to wage the battle of repentance, and to be just at any
cost, and by the fundamental virtues of humanity, piety, and justice, to imitate the virtues
of the Father.... In such perfection as is possible to all, even to women and to slaves, since
no one is a slave by nature, the wise man is truly rich. He is noble and free who can proudly
utter the saying of Sophocles, God is my ruler, not one among men! Such a one is priest, king,
and prophet, he is no longer merely a son and scholar of the Logos, he is the companion and
son of God.... God is the eternal guide and director of the world, himself requiring nothing,
and giving all to his children. It is of his goodness that he does not punish as a judge, but
that, as the giver of grace, he bears with all. With him all things are possible; he deals
with all, even with that which is almost beyond redemption. From him all the world hopes for
forgiveness of sins, the Logos, the high priest, and intercessor, and the patriarchs pray for
it; he grants it, not for the world's sake, but of his own gracious nature, to those who can
truly believe. He loves the humble, and saves those whom he knows to be worthy of healing.
His grace elects the pious before they are born, giving them victory over sensuality, and steadfastness
in virtue. He reveals himself to holy souls by his Spirit, and by his divine light leads those
who are too weak by nature even to understand the external world, beyond the limits of human
nature to that which is divine" ("Jesus of Nazara," pp. 283-287). Such are the most important
passages of Keim's résumé of Philo's philosophy, and its resemblance to Christian doctrine
is unmistakeable, and adds one more proof to the fact that Christianity is Alexandrian rather
than Judæan. It will be well to add to this sketch the passages carefully gathered out of Philo's
works by Jacob Bryant, who endeavoured to prove, from their resemblance to passages in the
New Testament, that Philo was a Christian, forgetting that Philo's works were mostly written
when Jesus was a child and a youth, and that he never once mentions Jesus or Christianity.
It must not be forgotten that Philo lived in Alexandria, not in Judæa, and that between the
Canaanitish and the Hellenic Jews there existed the most bitter hostility, so that--even were
the story of Jesus true--it could not have reached Philo before A.D. 40, at which time he was
old and gray-headed. We again quote from Mr. Lake's treatise, who prints the parallel passages,
and we would draw special attention to the similarity of phraseology as well as of idea:

Identity of the Christ of the New Testament with the Logos of Philo.

Philo, describing the Logos,      The New Testament, speaking says:--                     
of Jesus says:--

'The Logos is the Son             'This is the Son of God.' of God the Father.'--De       
John i. 34. Profugis.

'The first begotten of God.'      'And when he again bringeth
--De Somniis.                     his first-born into the
                                  world.'--Heb. i. 6.

'And the most ancient of          'That he is the first-born all beings.'--De Conf. Ling. 
of every creature.'--Col. i. 15.

'The Logos is the image           'Christ, the image of the
and likeness of God.'--De         invisible God.'--Col. i. 15.
Monarch.                          'The brightness of his
                                  (God's) glory, and the express
                                  image of his person.'--Heb.
                                  i. 3.

'The Logos is superior to         'Being made so much
the angels.'--De Profugis.        better that the angels. Let
                                  all the angels of God worship
                                  him.'--Heb. i. 4, 6.

'The Logos is superior to         'Thou hast put all things all beings in the world.'--De 
in subjection under his feet.' Leg. Allegor.                     --Heb. ii. 8.

'The Logos is the instrument      'All things were made by
by whom the world was             him (the Word or Logos),
made.'--De Leg. Allegor.          and without him was not
                                  anything made that was
'The divine word by whom          made.'--John i. 3
all things were ordered and
disposed.'--De Mundi Opificio.    'Jesus Christ, by whom
                                  are all things.'--i Cor. viii. 6.

                                  'By whom also he made
                                  the worlds.'--Heb. i. 2.

'The Logos is the light of        'The Word (Logos) was
the world, and the intellectual   the true light.'--John i. 9.
sun.'--De Somniis.
                                  'The life and the light of
                                  men.'--John i. 4.

                                  'I am the light of the world.'
                                  --John viii. 12.

'The Logos only can see           'He that is of God, he
 God.'--De Confus. Ling.          hath seen the Father.'--John
                                  vi. 46.

'He is the most ancient           'Now, O Father, glorify
of God's works.'--De Confus       thou me with thine own self
Ling.                             with the glory which I had
                                  with thee before the world
'And was before all things.'      was.'--John xvii. 5.
--De Leg. Allegor.
                                  'He was in the beginning
                                  with God.'--John i. 2.

                                  'Before all worlds.'--2
                                  Tim. i. 9.

'The Logos is esteemed            'Christ, who is over all, the same as God.'--De         
God blessed for evermore.' Somniis.                          --Rom. ix. 5.

                                  'Who, being in the form
                                  of God. thought it no robbery
                                  to be equal with God.'--Phil.
                                  ii. 6.

'The Logos was eternal.'          'Christ abideth for ever. --De Plant. Noë.              
--John xii. 34.

                                  'But to the Son he saith,
                                  Thy throne, O God, is for
                                  ever and ever.'--Heb. i. 8.

'The Logos supports the           'Upholding all things by
world, is the connecting          the word of his power.'--Heb.
power by which all things         i. 3.
are united.'--De Profugis.
                                  'By him all things consist.'
'The Logos is nearest to          --Col. i. 17.
God, without any separation;
being, as it were, fixed upon     'I and my Father are one.'
the only true existing Deity,     --John x. 30.
nothing coming between to         'That they may be one as
disturb that unity."--De          we are.'--John i. 18.
Profugis.

'The Logos is free from           'The only begotten Son,
all taint of sin, either          who is in the bosom of the
voluntary or involuntary.'--De    Father.'--John i. 18.
Profugis.
                                  'The blood of Christ, who
'The Logos the fountain           offered himself without
of life.                          spot to God.'--Heb. ix. 14.

'It is of the greatest            'Who did no sin, neither consequence to every person to 
was guile found in his strive without remission to       mouth.'--1 Pet. ii. 22. approach to
the divine Logos, the Word of God above, who        'Whosoever shall drink of the is the fountain
of all wisdom;    water that I shall give him, that by drinking largely          shall never
thirst, but the of that sacred spring, instead    water that I shall give him of death, he
may be rewarded      shall be in him a well of with everlasting life.'--De       water springing
up into Profugis.                         everlasting life,'--John iv. 14.

'The Logos is the shepherd        'The great shepherd of the
of God's flock.                   flock... our Lord Jesus.'--
                                  Heb. xiii. 20.
'The deity, like a shepherd,
and at the same time              'I am the good shepherd, and
like a monarch, acts with the     know my sheep, and am known
most consummate order and         of mine.'--John x. 14.
rectitude, and has appointed
his First-born, the upright       'Christ ... the shepherd and
Logos, like the substitute of     guardian of your souls.'--
a mighty prince, to take care     1 Pet. ii. 25.
of his sacred flock.'--De
Agricult.                         'For Christ must reign till he
                                  hath put all his enemies under
The Logos, Philo says, is         his feet.'--1 Cor xv. 25.
'The great governor of the
world; he is the creative and     'Christ, above all principality,
princely power, and through       and might, and dominion, and
these the heavens and the         every name that is named, not
whole world were produced.'       only in this world, but in the
--De Profugis.                    world to come .. and God hath
                                  put all things under his feet.'--
                                  Eph. i. 21, 22

'The Logos is the physician       'The spirit of the Lord is
that heals all evil.'--De         upon me, because he hath
Leg. Allegor.                     anointed me to heal the
                                  broken-hearted.'--Luke iv.
                                  18.

The Logos the Seal of God.     Christ the Seal of God.

'The Logos, by whom the           'In whom also, after that world was framed, is the seal,
ye believed, ye were sealed after the impression of which     with the holy seal of promise.'
everything is made, and is        --Eph. i. 13 rendered the similitude and       'Jesus, the
son of man ... him image of the perfect Word of      hath God the Father God.'--De Profugis.
sealed.'--John vi. 27.

'The soul of man is an            'Christ, the brightness of impression of a seal, of which
his (God's) glory, and the the prototype and original        express image of his person. characteristic
is the everlasting --Heb. i. 3. Logos.'--De Plantatione Noë.

The Logos the source of          Christ the source of eternal immortal life.              
life.

Philo says 'that when the         'The dead (in Christ) shall
soul strives after its best and   be raised incorruptible.'--1
noblest life, then the Logos      Cor. xv. 52
frees it from all corruption,     'Because the creature itself
and confers upon it the gift      also shall be delivered
of immortality.'--De C.Q.         from the bondage of corruption
Erud. Gratiâ.                     into the glorious liberty of
                                  the children of God.'--Rom.
                                  vii. 21.
                                  The New Testament calls
Philo speaks of the Logos         Christ the Beloved Son:--'This
not only as the Son of God        is my beloved Son
and his first begotten, but       in whom I am well pleased.'
also styles him 'his beloved      --Matt. iii. 17; Luke ix. 35;
Son.'--De Leg. Allegor.           2 Pet. i. 17
                                  'The Son of his love.'--Col.
                                  i. 13.

Philo says 'that good men         'But ye are come unto mount
are admitted to the assembly      Zion, and to the city of the
of the saints above.              living God, and to an
                                  innumerable company of angels,
'Those who relinquish human       and to the spirits of just men
doctrines, and become             made perfect.'--Heb. xii. 22, 23
the well-disposed disciples of
God, will be one day translated   'Giving thanks unto the Father
to an incorruptible and           which hath made us the
perfect order of beings."--De     inheritance of the saints in
Sacrifices.                       light.'--Col. i. 12.

Philo says 'that the just         The New Testament makes Jesus to
man, when he dies is translated   say:
to another state by the
Logos, by whom the world          'No man can come to me, except
was created. For God by           the Father which hath sent me
his said Word (Logos), by         draw him; and I will raise him
which he made all things,         up on the last day.'--John vi. 44
will raise the perfect man
from the dregs of this world,     'No man cometh to the Father but
and exalt him near himself.       by me.'--John xvi. 6.
He will place him near his
own person.'--De Sacrificiis.     'Where I am, there also shall my
                                  servant be ... him will my father
Philo says that the Logos         honour.'
is the true High Priest, who
is without sin and anointed       The New Testament speaks of Jesus
by God:--                         as the High Priest:

'It is the world, in which        'Seeing then that we have a great
the Logos, God's First-born,      High Priest that is passed into
that great High Priest, resides.  the heavens, Jesus, the Son of
And I assert that this            God, let is hold fast our
High Priest is no man, but        profession.'--Heb. iv. 14.
the Holy Word of God; who
is not capable of either          'For such an High Priest became us,
voluntary or involuntary sin,     who is holy, harmless, undefiled,
and hence his head is anointed    separate from sinners.'--Heb. vii. 26.
with oil.'--De Profugis.
                                  The New Testament says of Christ:
Philo mentions the Logos
as the great High Priest and      'We have such an High Priest, who is
Mediator for the sins of the      set on the throne of the majest in
world. Speaking of the rebellion  the heavens, a mediator of a
of Korah, he introduces the       better covenant.'--Heb. viii. 1-6.
Logos as saying :--
                                  'But Christ being come an High
'It was I who stood in the        Priest ... entered at once into
middle between the Lord and       the holy place, having obtained
you.                              eternal redemption for us.'--Heb.
                                  ix. 11, 12.
'The sacred Logos pressed
with zeal and without remission   The New Testament says of John, the
that he might stand               forerunner of Jesus, that he preached
between the dead and the          'the baptism of repentance for the
living.--Quis Rerum Div.          remission of sins.'--Mark i. 4.
Haeres.
                                  Jesus says:--
The Logos, the Saviour
God, who brings salvation as      'Ye will not come to me, that ye
the reward of repentance and      might have life.'--John v. 40.
righteousness.
                                  'Beloved, we be now the sons of
'If then men have from            God; and it doth not yet appear
their very souls a just           what we shall be; but we know that
contrition, and are changed,      when he doth appear we shall be
and have humbled themselves for   like him.'--1 John iii. 2.
their past errors, acknowledging
and confessing their              'As we have born the image of the
sins, such persons shall find     earthy, we shall also bear the image
pardon from the Saviour and       of the heavenly.'--1 Cor. xv. 49.
merciful God, and receive a
most choice and great advantage   'For if we have been planted
of being like the Logos           together in the likeness of his
of God, who was originally        death, we shall be also in the
the great archetype after         likeness of his resurrection.'--
which the soul of man was         Rom. vi. 5.
formed.'--De Execrationibus.

Here, then, we get, complete, the idea of Christ as the Word of God, and we see that Christianity
is as lacking in originality on these points as in everything else. We may note, also, that
this Platonic idea was current among the Jews before Philo, although he gives it to us more
thoroughly and fully worked out: in the apocryphal books of the Jews we find the idea of the
Logos in many passages in Wisdom, to take but a single case.

The widely-spread existence of this notion is acknowledged by Dean Milman in his "History of
Christianity." He says: "This Being was more or less distinctly impersonated, according to
the more popular or more philosophic, the more material or the more abstract, notions of the
age or people. This was the doctrine from the Ganges, or even the shores of the Yellow Sea
to the Ilissus; it was the fundamental principle of the Indian religion and the Indian philosophy;
it was the basis of Zoroastrianism; it was pure Platonism; it was the Platonic Judaism of the
Alexandrian school. Many fine passages might be quoted from Philo, on the impossibility that
the first self-existing Being should become cognisable to the sense of man; and even in Palestine,
no doubt, John the Baptist and our Lord himself spoke no new doctrine, but rather the common
sentiment of the more enlightened, when they declared that 'no man had seen God at any time.'
In conformity with this principle, the Jews, in the interpretation of the older Scriptures,
instead of direct and sensible communication from the one great Deity, had interposed either
one or more intermediate beings as the channels of communication. According to one accredited
tradition alluded to by St. Stephen, the law was delivered by the 'disposition of angels;'
according to another, this office was delegated to a single angel, sometimes called the angel
of the Law (see Gal. iii. 19); at others, the Metatron. But the more ordinary representative,
as it were, of God, to the sense and mind of man, was the Memra, or the Divine Word; and it
is remarkable that the same appellation is found in the Indian, the Persian, the Platonic,
and the Alexandrian systems. By the Targumists, the earliest Jewish commentators on the Scriptures,
this term had been already applied to the Messiah; nor is it necessary to observe the manner
in which it has been sanctified by its introduction into the Christian scheme. This uniformity
of conception and coincidence of language indicates the general acquiescence of the human mind
in the necessity of some mediation between the pure spiritual nature of the Deity and the moral
and intellectual nature of man" (as quoted by Lake). And "this uniformity of conception and
coincidence of language indicates," also, that Christianity has only received and repeated
the religious ideas which existed in earlier times. How can that be a revelation from God which
was well known in the world long before God revealed it? The acknowledgment of the priority
of Pagan thought is the destruction of the supernatural claims of Christianity based on the
same thought; that cannot be supernatural after Christ which was natural before him, nor that
sent down from heaven which was already on earth as the product of human reason. The Rev. Mr.
Lake fairly says: "We have evidence--clear, conclusive, irrefutable evidence--as to what this
doctrine really is. We can trace its birth-place in the philosophic speculations of the ancient
world, we can note its gradual development and growth, we can see it in its early youth passing
(through Philo and others) from Grecian philosophy into the current of Jewish thought; then,
after resting awhile in the Judaism of the period of the Christian era, we see it slightly
changing its character, as it passes through Gamaliel, Paul--the writers of the Fourth Gospel
and of the Epistle to the Hebrews--through Justin Martyr and Tertullian, into the stream of
early Christian thought, and now from a sublime philosophical speculation it becomes dwarfed
and corrupted into a church dogma, and finally gets hardened as a frozen mass of absurdity,
stupidity, and blasphemy, in the Nicene and Athanasian creeds" ("Philo, Plato, and Paul," pp.
71, 72).

The idea of IMMORTALITY was by no means "brought to light" by Christ, as is pretended. The
early Jews had clearly no idea of life after death; "for in death there is no remembrance of
thee; in the grave who shall give thee thanks?" (Ps. vi. 5). "Like the slain that lie in the
grave, whom thou rememberest no more.... Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? Shall the dead
arise and praise thee? Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? or thy faithfulness
in destruction? Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of
forgetfulness?" (Ps. lxxxviii. 5, 10-12). "The dead praise not the Lord" (Ps. cxv. 17). "I
said in mine heart concerning the estate of the sons of men, that God might manifest them,
and that they might see that they themselves are beasts. For that which befalleth the sons
of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other;
yea, they have all one breath; so that man hath no pre-eminence above a beast" (Eccles. iii.
18, 19). "There is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave" (Ibid, ix.
10). "The grave cannot praise thee, death cannot celebrate thee: they that go down into the
pit cannot hope for thy truth. The living, the living, he shall praise thee" (Is. xxxviii.
18, 19). In strict accordance with this belief, that death was the end of man, the pre-captivity
Jews regarded wealth, strength, prosperity, and all earthly blessings, as the reward of virtue.
(Ps. xvi. 9, 10); together with other passages. In the apocryphal Jewish Scriptures the belief
in immortality appears over and over again.

To say that Jesus "brought life and immortality to light through the Gospel," even to the Jews,
is to contend for a position against all evidence. If from the Jews we turn to the Pagan thinkers,
immortality is proclaimed by them long before the Jews have dreamed about it. The Egyptians,
in their funeral ritual, went through the judgment of the soul before Osiris: "The resurrection
of the dead to a second life had been a deep-rooted religious opinion among the Egyptians from
the earliest times" ("Egyptian Mythology," Sharpe, p. 52), and they appear to have believed
in a transmigration of souls through the lower animals, and an ultimate return to the original
body; to this end they preserved the body as a mummy, so that the soul, on its return, might
find its original habitation still in existence: any who believe in the resurrection of the
body should clearly follow the example of the ancient Egyptians. In later times, the more instructed
Egyptians believed in a spiritual resurrection only, but the mass of the people clung to the
idea of a bodily resurrection (Ibid, p. 54). "It is to the later times of Egyptian history,
perhaps to the five centuries immediately before the Christian era, that the religious opinions
contained in the funeral papyri chiefly belong. The roll of papyrus buried with the mummy often
describes the funeral, and then goes on to the return of the soul to the body, the resurrection,
the various trials and difficulties which the deceased will meet and overcome in the next world,
and the garden of paradise in which he awaits the day of judgment, the trial on that day, and
it then shows the punishment which would have awaited him if he had been found guilty" (Ibid,
p. 64). We have already seen that the immortality of the soul was taught by Plato (ante, p.
364). The Hindus taught that happiness or misery hereafter depended upon the life here. "If
duty is performed, a good name will be obtained, as well as happiness, here and after death"
("Mahabharata," xii., 6,538, in "Religious and Moral Sentiments from Indian Writers," by J.
Muir, p. 22). The "Mahabharata" was written, or rather collected, in the second century before
Christ. "Poor King Rantideva bestowed water with a pure mind, and thence ascended to heaven....
King Nriga gave thousands of largesses of cows to Brahmans; but because he gave away one belonging
to another person, he went to hell" (Ibid, xiv. 2,787 and 2,789. Muir, pp, 31, 32). "Let us
now examine into the theology of India, as reported by Megasthenes, about B.C. 300 (Cory's
'Ancient Fragments,' p. 226, et seq.). 'They, the Brahmins, regard the present life merely
as the conception of persons presently to be born, and death as the birth into a life of reality
and happiness, to those who rightly philosophise: upon this account they are studiously careful
in preparing for death'" (Inman's "Ancient Faiths," vol. ii., p. 820). Zoroaster (B.C. 1,200,
or possibly 2,000) taught: "The soul, being a bright fire, by the power of the Father remains
immortal, and is the mistress of life" (Ibid, p. 821). "The Indians were believers in the immortality
of the soul, and conscious future existence. They taught that immediately after death the souls
of men, both good and bad, proceed together along an appointed path to the bridge of the gatherer,
a narrow path to heaven, over which the souls of the pious alone could pass, whilst the wicked
fall from it into the gulf below; that the prayers of his living friends are of much value
to the dead, and greatly help him on his journey. As his soul enters the abode of bliss, it
is greeted with the word, 'How happy art thou, who hast come here to us, mortality to immortality!'
Then the pious soul goes joyfully onward to Ahura-Mazdao, to the immortal saints, the golden
throne, and Paradise" (Ibid, p. 834). From these notions the writer of the story of Jesus drew
his idea of the "narrow way" that led to heaven, and of the "strait gate" through which many
would be unable to pass. Cicero (bk. vi. "Commonwealth," quoted by Inman) says: "Be assured
that, for all those who have in any way conducted to the preservation, defence, and enlargement
of their native country, there is a certain place in heaven, where they shall enjoy an eternity
and happiness." It is needless to further multiply quotations in order to show that our latest
development of these Eastern creeds only reiterated the teaching of the earlier phases of religious
thought.

"But, at least," urge the Christians, "we owe the sublime idea of the UNITY OF GOD to revelation,
and this is grander than the Polytheism of the Pagan world." Is it not, however, true, that
just as Christians urge that the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, are but one God, so the thinkers
of old believed in one Supreme Being, while the multitudinous gods were but as the angels and
saints of Christianity, his messengers, his subordinates, not his rivals? All savages are Polytheists,
just as were the Hebrews, whose god "Jehovah" was but their special god, stronger than the
gods of the nations around them, gods whose existence they never denied; but as thought grew,
the superior minds in each nation rose over the multitude of deities to the idea of one Supreme
Being working in many ways, and the loftiest flights of the "prophets" of the Jewish Scriptures
may be paralleled by those of the sages of other creeds. Zoroaster taught that "God is the
first, indestructible, eternal, unbegotten, indivisible, dissimilar" ("Ancient Fragments,"
Cory, p. 239, quoted by Inman). In the Sabaean Litany (two extracts only of this ancient work
are preserved by El Wardi, the great Arabic historian) we read: "Thou art the Eternal One,
in whom all order is centred.... Thou dost embrace all things. Thou art the Infinite and Incomprehensible,
who standest alone" ("Sacred Anthology," by M.D. Conway, pp. 74, 75). "There is only one Deity,
the great soul. He is called the Sun, for he is the soul of all beings. That which is One,
the wise call it in divers manners. Wise poets, by words, make the beautiful-winged manifold,
though he is One" ("Rig-Veda," B.C. 1500, from "Anthology," p.76). "The Divine Mind alone is
the whole assemblage of the gods.... He (the Brahmin) may contemplate castle, air, fire, water,
the subtile ether, in his own body and organs; in his heart, the Star; in his motion, Vishnu;
in his vigour, Hara; in his speech, Agni; in digestion, Mitra; in production, Brahma; but he
must consider the supreme Omnipresent Reason as sovereign of them all" ("Manu," about B.C.
1200; his code collected about B.C. 300; from "Anthology," p. 81). On an ancient stone at Bonddha
Gaya is a Sanscrit inscription to Buddha, in which we find: "Reverence be unto thee, an incarnation
of the Deity and the Eternal One. OM! [the mysterious name of God, equivalent to pure existence,
or the Jewish Jhvh] the possessor of all things in vital form! Thou art Brahma, Veeshnoo, and
Mahesa!... I adore thee, who art celebrated by a thousand names, and under various forms" ("Asiatic
Researches," Essay xi., by Mr. Wilmot; vol. i., p. 285). Plato's teaching is, "that there is
but one God" (ante, p. 364), and wherever we search, we find that the more thoughtful proclaimed
the unity of the Deity. This doctrine must, then, go the way of the rest, and it must be acknowledged
that the boasted revelation is, once more, but the speculation of man's unassisted reason.

Turning from these cardinal doctrines to the minor dogmas and ceremonies of Christianity, we
shall still discover it to be nothing but a survival of Paganism.

BAPTISM seems to have been practised as a religious rite in all solar creeds, and has naturally,
therefore, found its due place in the latest solar faith. "The idea of using water as emblematic
of spiritual washing, is too obvious to allow surprise at the antiquity of this rite. Dr. Hyde,
in his treatise on the 'Religion of the Ancient Persians,' xxxiv. 406, tells us that it prevailed
among that people. 'They do not use circumcision for their children, but only baptism or washing
for the inward purification of the soul. They bring the child to the priest into the church,
and place him in front of the sun and fire, which ceremony being completed, they look upon
him as more sacred than before. Lord says that they bring the water for this purpose in bark
of the Holm-tree; that tree is in truth the Haum of the Magi, of which we spoke before on another
occasion. Sometimes also it is otherwise done by immersing him in a large vessel of water,
as Tavernier tells us. After such washing, or baptism, the priest imposes on the child the
name given by his parents'" ("Christian Records," Rev. Dr. Giles, p. 129).

"The Baptismal fonts in our Protestant churches, and we can hardly say more especially the
little cisterns at the entrance of our Catholic chapels, are not imitations, but an unbroken
and never interrupted continuation of the same aquaminaria, or amula, which the learned Montfaucon,
in his 'Antiquities,' shows to have been vases of holy water, which were placed by the heathens
at the entrance of their temples, to sprinkle themselves with upon entering those sacred edifices"
("Diegesis," R. Taylor, p. 219). Among the Hindus, to bathe in the Ganges is to be regenerated,
and the water is holy because it flows from Brahma's feet. Tertullian, arguing that water,
as being God's earliest and most favoured creation, and brooded over by the spirit--Vishnu
also is called Narayan, "moving on the waters"--was sanctifying in its nature, says: "'Well,
but the nations, who are strangers to all understanding of spiritual powers, ascribe to their
idols the imbuing of waters with the self-same efficacy.' So they do, but these cheat themselves
with waters which are widowed. For washing is the channel through which they are initiated
into some sacred rites of some notorious Isis or Mithra; and the gods themselves likewise they
honour by washings.... At the Appollinarian and Eleusinian games they are baptised; and they
presume that the effect of their doing that is the regeneration, and the remission of the penalties
due to their perjuries.... Which fact, being acknowledged, we recognise here also the zeal
of the devil rivalling the things of God, while we find him, too, practising baptism in his
subjects" ("On Baptism," chap. v.). As "the devil" did it first, it seems scarcely fair to
accuse him of copying.

Closely allied to baptism is the idea of regeneration, being born again. In baptism the purification
is wrought by the male deity, typified in the water flowing from the throne or the feet of
the god. In regeneration without water the purification is wrought by the female deity. The
earth is the mother of all, and "as at birth the new being emerges from the mother, so it was
supposed that emergence from a terrestrial cleft was equivalent to a new birth" (Inman's "Ancient
Faiths," vol. i., p. 415; ed. 1868). Hence the custom of squeezing through a hole in a rock,
or passing through a perforated stone, or between and under stones set up for the purpose;
a natural cleft in a rock or in the earth was considered as specially holy, and to some of
these long pilgrimages are still made in Eastern lands. On emerging from the hole, the devotee
is re-born, and the sins of the past are no longer counted against him.

CONFIRMATION was also a rite employed by the ancient Persians. "Afterwards, in the fifteenth
year of his age, when he begins to put on the tunic, the sudra and the girdle, that he may
enter upon religion, and is engaged upon the articles of belief, the priest bestows upon him
confirmation, that he may from that time be admitted into the number of the faithful, and may
be looked upon as a believer himself" (Dr. Hyde on "Religion of the Ancient Persians," tr.
by Dr. Giles in "Christian Records," pp. 129, 130).

LORD'S SUPPER.--Bread and wine appear to have been a regular offering to the Sun-god, whose
beams ripen the corn and the grape, and who may indeed, by a figure, be said to be transubstantiated
thus for the food of man. The Persians offered bread and wine to Mithra; the people of Thibet
and Tartary did the same. Cakes were made for the Queen of heaven, kneaded of dough, and were
offered up to her with incense and drink-libations (Jer. vii. 18, and xliv. 19). Ishtar was
worshipped with cakes, or buns, made out of the finest flour, mingled with honey, and the ancient
Greeks offered the same: this bread seems to have been sometimes only offered to the deity,
sometimes also eaten by the worshippers; in the same way the bread and the wine are offered
to God in the Eucharist, and he is prayed to accept "our alms and oblations." The Easter Cakes
presented by the clergyman to his parishioners--an old English custom, now rarely met with--are
the cakes of Ishtar, oval in form, symbolising the yoni. We have already dealt fully with the
apparent similarity between the Christian Agapae, and the Bacchanalian mysteries (ante, pp.
222-227). The supper of Adoneus, Adonai, literally, the "supper of the Lord," formed part of
these feasts, identical in name with the supper of the Christian mysteries. The Eleusinian
mysteries, celebrated at Eleusis, in honour of Ceres, goddess of corn, and Bacchus, god of
wine, compel us to think of bread and wine, the very substance of the gods, as it were, there
adored. And Mosheim gives us the origin of many of the Christian eucharistic ceremonies. A
great part, therefore, of the service of the church, in this century [A.D. 100-200], had a
certain air of the heathen mysteries, and resembled them considerably in many particulars"
("Eccles. Hist.," 2nd century, p. 56).

The whole system of THE PRIESTHOOD was transplanted into Christianity from Paganism; the Egyptian
priesthood, however, was in great part hereditary, and in this differs from the Christian,
while resembling the Jewish. The priests of the temple of Dea (Syria) were, on the other hand,
celibate, and so were some orders of the Egyptian priests. Some classes of priests closely
resembled Christian monks, living in monasteries, and undergoing many austerities; they prayed
twice a day, fasted often, spoke little, and lived much apart in their cells in solitary meditation;
in the most insignificant matters the same similarity may be traced. "When the Roman Catholic
priest shaves the top of his head, it is because the Egyptian priest had done the same before.
When the English clergyman--though he preaches his sermon in a silk or woollen robe--may read
the Liturgy in no dress but linen, it is because linen was the clothing of the Egyptians. Two
thousand years before the Bishop of Rome pretended to hold the keys of heaven and earth, there
was an Egyptian priest with the high-sounding title of Appointed keeper of the two doors of
heaven, in the city of Thebes" ("Egyptian Mythology," S. Sharpe, preface, p. xi.). The white
robes of modern priests are remnants of the same old faith; the more gorgeous vestments are
the ancient garb of the priests officiating in the temple of female deities; the stole is the
characteristic of woman's dress; the pallium is the emblem of the yoni; the alb is the chemise;
the oval or circular chasuble is again the yoni; the Christian mitre is the high cap of the
Egyptian priests, and its peculiar shape is simply the open mouth of the fish, the female emblem.
In old sculptures a fish's head, with open mouth pointing upwards, is often worn by the priests,
and is scarcely distinguishable from the present mitre. The modern crozier is the hooked staff,
emblem of the phallus; the oval frame for divine things is the female symbol once more. Thus
holy medals are generally oval, and the Virgin is constantly represented in an oval frame,
with the child in her arms. In some old missals, in representations of the Annunciation, we
see the Virgin standing, with the dove hovering in front above her, and from the dove issues
a beam of light, from the end of which, as it touches her stomach, depends an oval containing
the infant Jesus.

The tinkling bell--used at the Mass at the moment of consecration--is the symbol of male and
female together--the clapper, the male, within the hollow shell, the female--and was used in
solar services at the moment of sacrifice. The position of the fingers of the priest in blessing
the congregation is the old symbolical position of the fingers of the solar priest. The Latin
form, with the two fingers and thumb upraised--copied in Anglican churches--is said rightly
by ecclesiastical writers to represent the trinity; but the trinity it represents is the real
human trinity: the more elaborate Greek form is intended to represent the cross as well. The
decoration of the cross with flowers, specially at Easter-tide, was practised in the solar
temples, and there the phallus, upright on the altar, was garlanded with spring blossoms, and
was adored as the "Lord and Giver of Life, proceeding from the Father," and indeed one with
him, his very self. The sacred books of the Egyptians were written by the god Thoth, just as
the sacred books of the Christians were written by the god the Holy Ghost. The rosary and cross
were used by Buddhists in Thibet and Tartary. The head of the religion in those countries,
the Grand Llama, is elected by the priests of a certain rank, as the Pope by his Cardinals.
The faithful observe fasts, offer sacrifice for the dead, practise confession, use holy water,
honour relics, make processions; they have monasteries and convents, whose inmates take vows
of poverty and chastity; they flagellate themselves, have priests and bishops--in fact, they
carry out the whole system of Catholicism, and have done so, since centuries before Christ,
so that a Roman Catholic priest, on his first mission among them, exclaimed that the Devil
had invented an imitation of Christianity in order to deceive and ruin men. As with baptism,
the imitation is older than the original!

"The rites and institutions, by which the Greeks, Romans, and other nations, had formerly testified
their religious veneration for fictitious deities, were now adopted, with some slight alterations,
by Christian bishops, and employed in the service of the true God. [This is the way a Christian
writer accounts for the resemblance his candour forces him to confess; we should put it, that
Christianity, growing out of Paganism, naturally preserved many of its customs.].... Hence
it happened that in these times the religion of the Greeks and Romans differed very little
in its external appearance from that of the Christians. (Mosheim's "Eccles. Hist.," fourth
century, p. 105). Says Dulaure: "These two Fathers [Justin and Tertullian] are in no fashion
embarrassed by this astonishing resemblance; they both say that the devil, knowing beforehand
of the establishment of Christianity, and of the ceremonies of this religion, inspired the
Pagans to do the same, so as to rival God and injure Christian worship" ("Histoire Abrégée
de Differens Cultes," t. i., p. 522; ed. 1825).

The idea of angels and devils has also spread from the far East; the Jews learned it from the
Babylonians, and from the Jews and the Egyptians it passed into Christianity. The Persian theology
had seven angels of the highest order, who ever surrounded Ormuzd, the good creator; and from
this the Jews derived the seven archangels always before the Lord, and the Christians the "seven
spirits of God" (Rev. iii. 1), and the "seven angels which stood before God" (Ibid, viii. 2).
The Persians had four angels--one at each corner of the world; Revelation has "four angels
standing on the four corners of the earth" (vii. 1). The Persians employed them as Mediators
with the Supreme; the majority of Christians now do the same, and all Christians did so in
earlier times. Origen, Tertullian, Chrysostom, and other Fathers, speak of angels as ruling
the earth, the planets, etc. Michael is the angel of the Sun, as was Hercules, and he fights
with and conquers the dragon, as Hercules the Python, Horus the monster Typhon, Krishna the
serpent. The Persians believed in devils as well as in angels, and they also had their chief,
Ahriman, the pattern of Satan. These devils--or dews, or devs--struggled against the good,
and in the end would be destroyed, and Ahriman would be chained down in the abyss, as Satan
in Rev. xx. Ahriman flew down to earth from heaven as a great dragon (Rev. xii. 3 and 9), the
angels arming themselves against him (Ibid, verse 7). Strauss remarks: "Had the belief in celestial
beings, occupying a particular station in the court of heaven, and distinguished by particular
names, originated from the revealed religion of the Hebrews--had such a belief been established
by Moses, or some later prophet--then, according to the views of the supranaturalist, they
might--nay, they must--be admitted to be correct. But it is in the Maccabaean Daniel and in
the apocryphal Tobit that this doctrine of angels, in its more precise form, first appears;
and it is evidently a product of the influence of the Zend religion of the Persians on the
Jewish mind. We have the testimony of the Jews themselves that they brought the names of the
angels with them from Babylon" ("Life of Jesus," vol. i., p. 101).

Dr. Kalisch, after having remarked that "the notions [of the Jews] concerning angels fluctuated
and changed," says that "at an early period, the belief in spirits was introduced into Palestine
from eastern Asia through the ordinary channels of political and commercial interchange," and
that to the Hebrew "notions heathen mythology offers striking analogies;" "it would be unwarranted,"
the learned doctor goes on, "to distinguish between the 'established belief of the Hebrews'
and 'popular superstition;' we have no means of fixing the boundary line between both; we must
consider the one to coincide with the other, or we should be obliged to renounce all historical
inquiry. The belief in spirits and demons was not a concession made by educated men to the
prejudices of the masses, but a concession which all--the educated as well as the uneducated--made
to Pagan Polytheism" ("Historical and Critical Commentary on the Old Testament." Leviticus,
part ii., pp. 284-287. Ed. 1872). "When the Jews, ever open to foreign influence in matters
of faith, lived under Persian rule, they imbibed, among many other religious views of their
masters, especially their doctrines of angels and spirits, which, in the region of the Euphrates
and Tigris, were most luxuriantly developed." Some of the angels are now "distinguished by
names, which the Jews themselves admit to have borrowed from their heathen rulers;" "their
chief is Mithron, or Metatron, corresponding to the Persian Mithra, the mediator between eternal
light and eternal darkness; he is the embodiment of divine omnipotence and omnipresence, the
guardian of the world, the instructor of Moses, and the preserver of the law, but also a terrible
avenger of disobedience and wickedness, especially in his capacity of Supreme Judge of the
dead" (Ibid, pp. 287, 288). This is "the angel of the Lord" who went before the children of
Israel, of whom God said "my name is in him" (see Ex. xxiii. 20-23), and who is identified
by many Christian commentators as the second person in the Trinity. The belief in devils is
the other side of the belief in angels, and "we see, above all, Satan rise to greater and more
perilous eminence both with regard to his power and the diversity of his functions." "This
remarkable advance in demonology cannot be surprising, if we consider that the Persian system
known as that of Zoroaster, and centering in the dualism of a good and evil principle, flourished
most and attained its fullest development, just about the time of the Babylonian exile" (Ibid,
pp. 292, 293). The Persian creed supplies us, as Dr. Kalisch has well said, with "the sources
from which the demonology of the Talmud, the Fathers and the Catholic Church has been derived"
(Ibid, p. 318).

The whole ideas of the judgment of the dead, the destruction of the world by fire, and the
punishment of the wicked, are also purely Pagan. Justin Martyr says truly that as Minos and
Rhadamanthus would punish the wicked, "we say that the same thing will be done, but by the
hand of Christ" ("Apology" 1, chap. viii). "While we say that there will be a burning up of
all, we shall seem to utter the doctrine of the Stoics; and while we affirm that the souls
of the wicked, being endowed with sensation even after death, are punished, and that those
of the good being delivered from punishment spend a blessed existence, we shall seem to say
the same things as the poets and philosophers" (Ibid, chap. xx). In the Egyptian creed Osiris
is generally the Judge of the dead, though sometimes Horus is represented in that character;
the dead man is accused before the Judge by Typhon, the evil one, as Satan is the "accuser
of the brethren;" forty-two assessors declare the innocence of the accused of the crimes they
severally note; the recording angel writes down the judgment; the soul is interceded for by
the lesser gods, who offer themselves as an atoning sacrifice (see Sharpe's "Egyptian Mythology,"
pp. 49-52). A pit, or lake of fire, is the doom of the condemned. The good pass to Paradise,
where is the tree of life: the fruit of this tree confers health and immortality. In the Persian
mythology the tree of life is planted by the stream that flows from the throne of Ormuzd (Rev.
xxii. i and 2). The Hindu creed has the same story, and it is also found among the Chinese.

The monastic life comes to us from India and from Egypt; in both countries solitaries and communities
are found. Bartholémy St. Hilaire, in his book on Buddha, gives an account of the Buddhist
monasteries which is worthy perusal. From Egypt the contagion of asceticism spread over Christendom.
"From Philo also we learn that a large body of Egyptian Jews had embraced the monastic rules
and the life of self-denial, which we have already noted among the Egyptian priests. They bore
the name of Therapeuts. They spent their time in solitary meditation and prayer, and only saw
one another on the seventh day. They did not marry; the women lived the same solitary and religious
life as the men. Fasting and mortification of the flesh were the foundation of their virtues"
("Egyptian Mythology," S. Sharpe, p. 79). In these Egyptian deserts grew up those wild and
bigoted fanatics--some Jews, some Pagans, and apparently no difference between them--who, appearing
later under the name of Christians, formed the original of the Western monasticism. It was
these monks who tore Hypatia to pieces in the great church of Alexandria, and who formed the
strength of "that savage and illiterate party, who looked upon all sorts of erudition, particularly
that of a philosophical kind, as pernicious, and even destructive to true piety and religion"
(Mosheim's "Eccles. Hist," p. 93). There can be no doubt of the identity of the Christians
and the Therapeuts, and this identity is the real key to the spread of "Christianity" in Egypt
and the surrounding countries. Eusebius tells us that Mark was said to be the first who preached
the Gospel in Egypt, and "so great a multitude of believers, both of men and women, were collected
there at the very outset, that in consequence of their extreme philosophical discipline and
austerity, Philo has considered their pursuits, their assemblies, and entertainments, as deserving
a place in his descriptions" ("Eccles. Hist," bk. ii., chap. xvi). We will see what Philo found
in Egypt, before remarking on the date at which he lived. Eusebius states (we condense bk.
ii., chap. xvii) that Philo "comprehends the regulations that are still observed in our churches
even to the present time;" that he "describes, with the greatest accuracy, the lives of our
ascetics;" these Therapeuts, stated by Eusebius to be Christians, were "everywhere scattered
over the world," but they abound "in Egypt, in each of its districts, and particularly about
Alexandria." In every house one room was set aside for worship, reading, and meditation, and
here they kept the "inspired declarations of the prophets, and hymns," they had also "commentaries
of ancient men," who were "the founders of the sect;" "it is highly probable that the ancient
commentaries which he says they have, are the very Gospels and writings of the apostles;" Eusebius
thinks that none can "be so hardy as to contradict his statement that these Therapeuts were
Christians, when their practices are to be found among none but in the religion of Christians;"
and "why should we add to these their meetings, and the separate abodes of the men and the
women in these meetings, and the exercises performed by them, which are still in vogue among
us at the present day, and which, especially at the festival of our Saviour's passion, we are
accustomed to pass in fasting and watching, and in the study of the divine word? All these
the above-mentioned author has accurately described and stated in his writings, and are the
same customs that are observed by us alone, at the present day, particularly the vigils of
the great festival, and the exercises in them, and the hymns that are commonly recited among
us.... Besides this, he describes the grades of dignity among those who administer the ecclesiastical
services committed to them, those of the deacons, and the presidencies of the episcopate as
the highest." Thus Philo wrote of "the original practices handed down from the apostles." The
important points to notice here are: that in the time of Philo, these Christians were scattered
all over the world; that the commentaries they had, which Eusebius says were the Christian's
gospels, were the works of ancient men, who founded the sect, so that the founders were men
who lived long before Philo's time; that they were thoroughly organised, proving thereby that
their sect was not a new one in his day; that the "discipline," organised association, ranks
of priests, etc., implied a long existence of the sect before Philo studied it, and that such
existence was clearly not consistent with any persecution being then directed against it. Philo
writes of flourishing and orderly communities, founded by men who had long since passed away,
and had bequeathed their writings to their followers for their instruction and guidance. And
what was the date of Philo? He himself gives us a clear note of time; in A.D. 40 he was sent
on an embassy to the Emperor Caligula at Rome, to complain of a persecution to which the Jews
were being subjected by Flaccus; he describes himself as being, in A.D. 40, "a grey-headed
old man." The Rev. J.W. Lake puts him at sixty-five or seventy years of age at that period,
and consequently would place his birth twenty-five or thirty years before the birth of Jesus
("Plato, Philo, and Paul," by Rev. J.W. Lake, pp. 33, 34). Gibbon, in a note to chap. 15, vol.
ii. (p. 180), says that "by proving it (the treatise on the Therapeuts) was composed as early
as the time of Augustus, Basnage has demonstrated, in spite of Eusebius, and a crowd of modern
Catholics, that the Therapeuts were neither Christians nor monks." Or rather, he has proved
that Christians existed before the time of Christ, since Augustus died A.D. 14, and before
that date Philo found a long-established sect holding Christian doctrines and practising "apostolic"
customs. A man, who in A.D. 40 was grey-headed, spoke of the Christian Gospels as writings
of ancient men, founders of a well-organised sect. Now we see why Christianity has so much
in common with the Egyptian mythology. Because it grew out of Egypt; its Gospels came from
thence; its ceremonies were learned there; its virgin is Isis; its Christ Osiris and Horus;
the mask of the revelation of God drops from off it, and we see the true face, the ancient
Egyptian religion, with a feature here and there moulded by the cognate ideas of other Eastern
creeds, all of which flowed into Alexandria, and mingled in its seething cauldron of thought.

There is also a Jewish sect which we must not overlook, in dealing with the sources of Christianity,
that, namely, known as the Essenes. Gibbon regards the Therapeuts and the Essenes as interchangeable
terms, but more careful investigation does not bear out this conclusion, although the two sects
strongly resemble each other, and have many doctrines in common; he says, however, truly: "The
austere life of the Essenians, their fasts and excommunications, the community of goods, the
love of celibacy, their zeal for martyrdom, and the warmth, though not the purity of their
faith, already offered a lively image of the primitive discipline" ("Decline and Fall," vol.
ii., ch. xv., p. 180). It is to Josephus that we must turn for an account of the Essenes; a
brief sketch of them is given in Antiquities of the Jews, bk. xviii., chap. i. He says: "The
doctrine of the Essenes is this: That all things are best ascribed to God. They teach the immortality
of souls, and esteem that the rewards of righteousness are to be earnestly striven for; and
when they send what they have dedicated to God into the temple, they do not offer sacrifices,
because they have more pure lustrations of their own; on which account they are excluded from
the common court of the temple, but offer their sacrifices themselves; yet is their course
of life better than that of other men; and they entirely addict themselves to husbandry." They
had all things in common, did not marry and kept no servants, thus none called any master (Matt.
xxiii. 8, 10). In the "Wars of the Jews," bk. ii., chap, viii., Josephus gives us a fuller
account. "There are three philosophical sects among the Jews. The followers of the first of
whom are the Pharisees; of the second the Sadducees; and the third sect who pretends to a severer
discipline are called Essenes. These last are Jews by birth, and seem to have a greater affection
for one another than the other sects [John xiii. 35]. These Essenes reject pleasures as an
evil [Matt. xvi. 24], but esteem continence and the conquest over our passions to be virtue.
They neglect wedlock.... They do not absolutely deny the fitness of marriage [Matt. xix. 12,
last clause of verse, 1 Cor. vii. 27, 28, 32-35, 37, 38, 40].... These men are despisers of
riches [Matt. xix. 21, 23, 24] ... it is a law among them, that those who come to them must
let what they have be common to the whole order [Acts iv. 32-37, v. 1-11].... They also have
stewards appointed to take care of their common affairs [Acts vi. 1-6].... If any of their
sect come from other places, what they have lies open for them, just as if it were their own
[Matt. x. 11].... For which reason they carry nothing with them when they travel into remote
parts [Matt. x. 9, 10].... As for their piety towards God, it is very extraordinary; for before
sunrising they speak not a word about profane matters, but put up certain prayers which they
have received from their forefathers, as if they made a supplication for its rising [the Essenes
were then sun-worshippers].... A priest says grace before meat; and it is unlawful for anyone
to taste of the food before grace be said. The same priest, when he hath dined, says grace
again after meat; and when they begin, and when they end, they praise God, as he that bestows
their food upon them [Eph. v. 18-20. 1 Cor. x. 30, 31. 1 Tim. iv. 4, 5].... They dispense their
anger after a just manner, and restrain their passion [Eph. iv. 26].... Whatsoever they say
also is firmer than an oath; but swearing is avoided by them, and they esteem it worse than
perjury; for they say, that he who cannot be believed without swearing by God, is already condemned
[Matt. v. 34-37]." We insert these references into the account given by Josephus of the Essenes,
in order to show the identity of teaching of the Gospels and the Essenes. The Essenes excommunicated
those who sinned grievously; each promised, on entrance to the society, to exercise piety,
observe justice, do no harm to any, show fidelity to all, and especially to those in authority,
love truth, reprove lying, keep his hands clear from theft, and his soul from unlawful gains.
The resemblance between the Essenes and the early Christians is on many points so strong that
it is impossible to deny that the two are connected; if Jesus of Nazareth had any historical
existence, he must have been one of the sect of the Essenes, who publicly preached many of
their doctrines, and endeavoured to popularise them. We are thus led to conclude that the Jewish
side of Christianity is simply Essenian, but that the major part of the religion is purely
Pagan, and that its rise under the name of Christianity must be sought for in Alexandria rather
than in Judæa.

The saints who play so great a part in the history of Christianity are, solely and simply,
the old Pagan deities under new names. The ancient creeds were intertwined with the daily life
of the people, and passed on, practically unchanged, although altered in name. "Ancient errors,
in spite of the progress of knowledge, were respected. Civilisation, as it grew, only refined
them, embellished them, or hid them under an allegorical veil" ("Histoire Abrégée de Differens
Cultes," Dulauré, t. i., p. 20). "A remarkable passage in the life of Gregory, surnamed Thaumaturgus,
i.e., the wonder-worker, will illustrate this point in the clearest manner. (Mosheim's "Eccles.
Hist.," 2nd century; note, p. 56). "The virtues that had formerly been ascribed to the heathen
temples, to their lustrations, to the statues of their gods and heroes, were now attributed
to Christian churches, to water consecrated by certain forms of prayer, and to the images of
holy men. And the same privileges that the former enjoyed under the darkness of Paganism, were
conferred upon the latter under the light of the Gospel, or, rather, under that cloud of superstition
that was obscuring its glory. It is true that, as yet, images were not very common [of this
there is no proof]; nor were there any statues at all [equally unproven]. But it is, at the
same time, as undoubtedly certain, as it is extravagant and monstrous, that the worship of
the martyrs was modelled, by degrees, according to the religious services that were paid to
the gods before the coming of Christ" (Ibid, 4th century; p. 98). The fact is, that wherever
there was a popular god, he passed into the pantheon of Christendom under a new name, as "Christianity"
spread. Dulaure, in his work above-quoted, gives a mass of details--mostly very unsavoury--which
leave no doubt upon this point. The essence of the old worship was the worship of Nature, as
we have seen, and a favourite deity was Priapus; this god was worshipped under the names of
St. Fontin, St. Guerlichon, or Greluchon, St. Remi, St. Gilles, St. Arnaud, SS. Cosmo and Damian,
etc., in the various provinces of France, Italy, and other Roman Catholic lands; and his worship,
with its distinctive rites of the most indecent character, remained in practice up to, at least,
1740 in France, and 1780 in Italy. (See throughout the above work.) If Christians knew a little
more about their creed they would be far less proud of it, and far less devout, than they are
at present.

Mr. Glennie, in a pamphlet reprinted from "In the Morning Land," points out the resemblance
between Christianity and "Osirianism," as he names the religion of Osiris: "'The peculiar character
of Osiris,' says Sir Gardner Wilkinson, 'his coming upon earth for the benefit of mankind,
with the titles of "Manifester of Good" and "Revealer of Truth;" his being put to death by
the malice of the Evil One; his burial and resurrection, and his becoming the judge of the
dead, are the most interesting features of the Egyptian religion. This was the great mystery;
and this myth and his worship were of the earliest times, and universal in Egypt.' And, with
this central doctrine of Osirianism, so perfectly similar to that of Christianism, doctrines
are associated precisely analogous to those associated in Christianism with its central doctrine.
In ancient Osirianism, as in modern Christianism, the Godhead is conceived as a Trinity, yet
are the three Gods declared to be only one God. In ancient Osirianism, as in modern Christianism,
we find the worship of a divine mother and child. In ancient Osirianism, as in modern Christianism,
there is a doctrine of atonement. In ancient Osirianism, as in modern Christianism, we find
the vision of a last judgment, and resurrection of the body. And finally, in ancient Osirianism,
as in modern Christianism, the sanctions of morality are a lake of fire and tormenting demons
on the one hand, and on the other, eternal life in the presence of God. Is it possible, then,
that such similarities of doctrines should not raise the most serious questions as to the relation
of the beliefs about Christ to those about Osiris; as to the cause of this wonderful similarity
of the doctrines of Christianism to those of Osirianism; nay, as to the possibility of the
whole doctrinal system of modern orthodoxy being but a transformation of the Osiris-myth?"
("Christ and Osiris," pp. 13, 14).

Thus we find that the cardinal doctrines and the ceremonies of Christianity are of purely Pagan
origin, and that "Christianity" was in existence long ages before Christ. Christianity is only,
as we have said, a patchwork composed of old materials; from the later Jews comes the Unity
of God; from India and Egypt the Trinity in Unity; from India and Egypt the crucified Redeemer;
from India, Egypt, Greece, and Rome, the virgin mother and the divine son; from Egypt its priests
and its ritual; from the Essenes and the Therapeuts its ascetism; from Persia, India, and Egypt,
its Sacraments; from Persia and Babylonia its angels and its devils; from Alexandria the blending
into one of many lines of thought. There is nothing original in this creed, save its special
appeal to the ignorant and to babes; "not many wise men after the flesh" are found among its
adherents; it is an appeal to the darkness of the world, not to its light: to superstition,
not to knowledge; to faith, not to reason. As its root is, so also are its fruits, and when--after
glancing at its morality--we turn to its history, we shall see that the corrupt tree bears
corrupt fruit, and that from the evil stem of a thinly disguised Paganism spring forth the
death-bringing branches of the Upas-tree Christianity, stunting the growth of the young civilisation
of the West, and drugging, with its poisonous dew-droppings, the Europe which lay beneath its
shade, swoon-slumbering in the death stupor of the Ages of Darkness and of Faith.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX TO SECTION II. OF PART II.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX OF BOOKS USED.

Cicero, Commonwealth, quoted by Inman...376 Cory, Ancient Fragments, quoted by Inman...377

Dulaure, Histoire Abregee de Differens Cultes...383, 390

Eusebius, Ecclesiastical History...386

Gibbon, Decline and Fall...388 Glennie, In the Morning Land...391

Hyde, quoted by Giles...378, 379

Inman, Ancient Faiths...376, 379

Jones, Sir W., Asiatic Researches...356, 377
Josephus, Antiquities of the Jews...364, 388
   "      Wars of the Jews...389
Justin Martyr, First Apology...385

Kalisch, Historical and Critical Commentary...384, 385 Keim, Jesus of Nazara...365

Lake, Plato, Philo, and Paul...363, 364, 367, 374, 388

Mahabharata, quoted by Muir...376 Manu, quoted in Anthology...377 Milman, History of Christianity,
quoted by Lake...373 Mosheim, Ecclesiastical History...380, 382, 386, 390, 391

Plato...358
   " summarised by Mdme. Dacier...364

Rig Veda, quoted in Anthology...377

Sabaean Litany, quoted in Anthology...377 Sharpe, Egyptian Mythology...360, 375, 381, 385,
386 Strauss, Life of Jesus...383

Taylor, Diegesis...359, 378 Tertullian, On Baptism...379

Zoroaster, quoted by Inman...376

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX  OF SUBJECTS.

Angels and devils...383

Baptism...378

Confirmation...379 Cross...357 Crucifix...358

Devils and angels...383 Divinity of Christ...363

Essenes...388

Immortality...374

Judgment of the Dead...385

Logos, ideas of...364 Lord's Supper...379

Mediator...362 Mithras...362 Monasticism...385

Nature and Sun-worship the origin of creeds...355

Osirianism and Christianity...391

Philo, date of...367, 387 Plato's teaching...364 Priesthood...381

Saints, old gods...391
Symbols of male energy...356
   "       female energy...361
   "       both in present ceremonies...381

Therapeuts...386 Trinity...359

Union of male and female foundation of religion...355 Unity of God...377

Virgin and child...360

Zoroaster's teaching...362, 376

SECTION III.--ITS MORALITY FALLIBLE.

How much may fairly be included under the title "Christian Morality"? Some of the more enlightened
Christians would confine the term to the morality of the New Testament, and would exclude the
Hebrew code as being the outcome of a barbarous age. But the Freethinker may fairly contend
that any moral rules taught by the Bible are part of Christian morality. By the statute 9 and
10 William III, cap. 32, the "Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testament" are declared to
be "of divine authority," and there is no exclusion indicated of the Mosaic code; this statute
is binding on all British subjects educated as Christians, and enacts penalties against those
who infringe it. By Article VI. of the Church of England, Holy Scripture is defined as "those
canonical books of the Old and New Testament, of whose authority was never any doubt in the
Church," and a list is subjoined. In Article VII. we are instructed that the "Commandments
which are called moral" are to be obeyed, but that the "civil precepts" of the Mosaic code
ought not "of necessity to be received in any commonwealth;" from which we may conclude that
the Church does not feel bound to enforce, as "of necessity," polygamy, prostitution, murder
of heretics, and slavery. She does not venture to designate such precepts as immoral, but she
does not feel bound in conscience to enforce them, for which small concession we must feel
grateful. Passing from the law of the land to the Bible itself, we find that the Mosaic code
must certainly be recognised as divine. Jesus himself proclaims: "Think not that I am come
to destroy the law and the prophets, I am not come to destroy but to fulfil," and this is emphasised
by the declaration: "Whosoever, therefore, shall break one of these least commandments, and
shall teach men so, he shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven." The Broad Church party
will be very little, if this be true. Turning to the Old Testament, we find that some of the
most immoral precepts are spoken by God himself, immediately after the "Ten Commandments;"
surely that which "The Lord said" out of "the thick darkness where God was," from the top of
Sinai "on a smoke, with the thunderings and lightnings, and the noise of the trumpet," can
scarcely be reverently designated as "the outcome of a barbarous age"? Yet it is under these
circumstances that God taught that a Hebrew servant might be bought for seven years; that a
wife might be given him by his master, and that the wife and the children proceeding from the
union belonged to the master; that the servant could only go free by deserting his wife and
his own children and leaving them in slavery (Ex. xxi. 1-6). It was under these circumstances
that God taught that a man might sell his daughter to be a "maid servant" (the translator's
euphemism for concubine), and that, "if she please not her master" she may be bought back again,
or if he "take him another" (translator supplying "wife" as throwing an air of respectability
over the transaction) she may go free (Ibid. 7-11). It was under these circumstances that God
taught that if a man should beat a male or female slave to death, he should not be punished,
providing the slave did not die till "a day or two" after, because the slave was only "his
money" (Ibid. 20, 21). Why blame a Legree, when he only acts on the permission given by God
from Mount Sinai? Dr. Colenso writes: "I shall never forget the revulsion of feeling with which
a very intelligent Christian native, with whose help I was translating these words into the
Zulu tongue, first heard them as words said to be uttered by the same great and gracious Being
whom I was teaching him to trust in and adore. His whole soul revolted against the notion,
that the great and blessed God, the merciful Father of all mankind, would speak of a servant,
or maid, as mere 'money,' and allow a horrible crime to go unpunished, because the victim of
the brutal usage had survived a few hours. My own heart and conscience at the time fully sympathised
with his" ("The Pentateuch and Book of Joshua," p. 9, ed. 1862). It was under these circumstances
that God taught that a thief, who possessed nothing of his own, should "be sold for his theft"
(Ex. xxii. 3). It was under these circumstances that God taught: "Thou shalt not suffer a witch
to live" (Ibid 18). To this cruel and wicked command myriads of unfortunate human beings have
been sacrificed; in the course of the Middle Ages hundreds of thousands perished; in France
and Germany "many districts and large towns burned two, three, and four hundred witches every
year, in some the annual executions destroyed nearly one per cent. of the whole population....
The Reformation, which swept away so many superstitions, left this, the most odious of all,
in full activity. The Churchmen of England, the Lutherans of Germany, the Calvinists of Geneva,
Scotland, and New England rivalled the most bigoted Roman Catholics in their severities. Indeed,
the Calvinists, though the most opposite of all to the Church of Rome, were in this respect
perhaps the most implicit imitators of her delusions" ("The Bible; What it is," by C. Bradlaugh,
p. 262). "During the seventeenth century, 40,000 persons are said to have been put to death
for witchcraft in England alone. In Scotland the number was probably, in proportion to the
population, much greater; for it is certain that even in the last forty years of the sixteenth
century the executions were not fewer than 17,000" (Ibid, p. 263). The Puritans in New England
signalised themselves by their merciless severity towards wizards and witches. France was the
first country to stem the tide of cruelty. In 1680 Louis XIV. "issued a proclamation prohibiting
all future prosecutions for witchcraft; and directing that even those who might profess the
art should only be punished as impostors." In England "the last execution was at Huntingdon,
in 1716;" in Scotland, at Darnock, in 1722. The last person burned as a witch was Maria Sanger,
at Wurzburg, in Bavaria, 1749 (Ibid, p. 265). Such fruit has borne the command of God from
Sinai. It was under these circumstances that God taught that any who sacrificed to any God
but himself should be "utterly destroyed" (Ex. xxii. 20). The practical effect of this we shall
presently see, in conjunction with other passages.

If we pass from these precepts, given with such special solemnity, to the other articles of
the so-called Mosaic code, we shall find rules of an equally immoral character. Lev. xxiv.
16 commands that "he that blasphemeth the name of the Lord" shall be stoned. Lev. xxv. 44-46
directs the Hebrews to buy bondmen and bondwomen of the nations around them, "and ye shall
take them as an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit them for a possession,"
thus sanctioning the slave-traffic. Leviticus xxvii. 29 distinctly commands human sacrifice,
forbidding the redemption of any that are "devoted of men." Clear as the words are, their meaning
has been hotly contested, because of the stain they affix on the Mosaic code. "[Hebrew: MOT
VOMOT]" that he die. The commentators take much trouble to soften this terrible sentence. According
to Raschi, it concerns a man condemned to death, in which case he must not be redeemed for
money. According to others, it is necessary that the person shall be devoted by public authority,
and not by private vow; and the Talmud speaks of Jephthah as a fanatic for having thought that
a human being could serve as a victim, as a burnt-offering; but there are too many facts which
prove the existence and the execution of this barbarous law; see, besides, the paraphrase of
Ben Ouziel: [Hebrew: KL APRShA TMVL DDYN QShVL MYTChYYB] "all anathema which shall be anathematised
of the human race cannot be redeemed neither by money, by vows, nor by sacrifices, neither
by prayers for mercy before God, since he is condemned to death" (Lévitique, par Cahen, p.
143; ed. 1855). Thus Jephthah devoted to the Lord "whatsoever cometh out of the doors of my
house to meet me," and, his daughter being the one who came, he "did with her according to
his vow" (Judges xi. 30-40).

Kalisch, in his Commentary on the Old Testament, gives us an exhaustive essay on "Human Sacrifices
among the Hebrews," endeavouring, as far as possible, to defend his people from the charge
of offering such sacrifices to Jehovah by reducing instances of it to a minimum. He says, however:
"Yet we have at least two clear and unquestionable instances of human sacrifices offered to
Jehovah. The first is the immolation of Jephthah's daughter." He then analyses the account,
pointing out that it was clearly a sacrifice to Jehovah, and that Jephthah's "intention of
sacrificing his daughter was publicly known for two full months; no priest, no prophet, no
elder, no magistrate interfered, or even remonstrated." Even further: "The event gave rise
to a popular custom annually observed by the maidens of Israel; Jephthah's deed evidently met
with universal approbation; it was regarded as praiseworthy piety; and indeed he could not
have ventured to make his vow, had not human victims offered to Jehovah been deemed particularly
meritorious in his time; otherwise he must have apprehended to provoke by it the wrath of God,
rather than procure his assistance. Nothing can be clearer or more decided.... The fact stands
indisputable that human sacrifices offered to Jehovah were possible among the Hebrews long
after the time of Moses, without meeting a check or censure from the teachers and leaders of
the nation--a fact for which the sad political confusion that prevailed in the period of the
Judges is insufficient to account" (Leviticus, Part I., pp. 383-385; ed. 1867). Kalisch further
points out that the vow of Jephthah promises a human sacrifice; the Hebrew expression signifies
"whoever comes forth" (see p. 383), and "the Hebrew words, in fact, absolutely exclude any
animal whatever; they admit none but a human being, who alone can be described as going out
of the house to meet somebody; for, though the restrictive usage of the East binds girls generally
to the seclusion of the house, it seems to have been a common custom for Hebrew women to proceed
and meet returning conquerors with music and rejoicing; and the sacrifice of one animal, an
extremely poor offering after a most signal and most important success, would certainly not
have been promised by a previous vow solemnly pronounced" (Ibid, pp. 385, 386). Our commentator
justly adds: "From the tenour of the narrative it is manifest that the deed was no isolated
case, but that human sacrifices were on emergencies of peculiar moment habitually offered to
God, and expected to secure his aid. One instance like that of Jephthah not only justifies,
but necessitates, the influence of a general custom. Pious men slaughtered human victims not
to Moloch, nor to any other foreign deity, but to the national God Jehovah" (Ibid, p. 390).
"The second recorded instance of human sacrifices killed in honour of Jehovah forms a remarkable
incident in the life of David" (Ibid, p. 390). We read in 2 Sam. xxi. that God said that a
famine then prevailing was on account of Saul and of his bloody house; that David desired to
make an "atonement;" that seven men of Saul's family were hanged "in the hill before the Lord;"
that then they were buried, with Saul and Jonathan, "and, after that, God was intreated for
the land." "It particularly concerns us to observe that the whole matter was, in the first
instance, referred to Jehovah; that David was plainly informed of the intention of the Gibeonites
of 'hanging up' the seven persons 'before Jehovah' as an 'atonement;' that he willingly surrendered
them for that atrocity; that he evidently expected from that act a cessation of the famine;
and that this calamity is reported to have really disappeared in consequence of the offering"
(Ibid, p. 392). Kalisch, in his anxiety to diminish as far as possible the evidence that human
sacrifices were enjoined by the law, urges that the passage in Leviticus (xxvii. 29) merely
implies that "everything so devoted shall be destroyed. The extirpation of the men, as a rule
heathen enemies in Canaan, or Hebrew idolaters, is indeed referred to a command of Jehovah,
but it is not intended as a sacrifice to him" (Ibid, p. 409). Surely this verges on quibbling,
and is not even then borne out by the context. Leviticus xxvii. deals entirely with private
"singular vows," and the "devoting" (Cherem) of "man and beast and of the field of his possession,"
is not the judicial devoting to destruction of an idolatrous city or individual, but a special
voluntary offering from a pious worshipper. Besides, even if such judicial duties were "the
rule," what of the exceptions? There are several indications of the practice of human sacrifice
to Jehovah beyond the two related by Kalisch (the command to sacrifice Isaac is in itself a
consecration by God of the abomination); the curious account of Aaron's death--whose garments
are taken off and put on his son, and who thereupon dies at the top of the mount, having walked
up there for that purpose, clearly indicates that he did not die a natural death (Numbers xx.
23-28). Many think that "the fire from the Lord" which devoured Nadab and Abihu (Lev. x. 1-5)
denotes the sacrifice "before the Lord" of the offending priests. Kalisch demurs to these latter
charges, and to some other additional ones, but says: "It is, therefore, undoubted that human
sacrifices were offered by the Hebrews from the earliest times up to the Babylonian period,
both in honour of Jehovah and of heathen deities, not only by depraved idolaters, but sometimes
even by pious servants of God; they probably ceased to be presented to Jehovah not much before
they ceased to be presented at all" (Leviticus, part i., p. 396). We cannot here omit to notice
the command of God in Exodus xxii. 29, 30: "The first-born of thy sons shalt thou give to me.
Likewise thou shalt do with thine oxen and with thy sheep," etc. As against this we read a
command in chap. xiii. 13, "All the first-born of man among thy children thou shalt redeem."
Here, as in many other instances, we get contradictory commands, best explained by the fact
that the Pentateuch is the work of many hands. Kalisch says: "It is impossible to deny that
the first-born sons were frequently sacrificed, not only by idolatrous Israelites, in honour
of foreign gods, as Moloch and Baal, but by pious men in honour of Jehovah; but the Pentateuch,
the embodiment of the more enlightened and advanced creed of the Hebrews, distinctly commanded
the redemption of the first-born" (Ibid, p. 404). Kalisch--we may point out--considers the
Pentateuch in its present form as post Babylonian, and regards it as a reforming agent in the
Jewish community.

In Numbers v. 12-31 we find the command to practise the brutal and
superstitious custom of the ordeal, the endorsement of the whole ordeal
system of the Middle Ages. Deuteronomy xiii. is entirely devoted to
commands of murder, and is the indulgence given beforehand to every
persecuting priest. The prophet whom God uses to prove his people, is to
be put to death for being God's instrument; anyone who tries to turn
people aside from God is to be stoned, and the hand of the nearest and
dearest is to be "first upon him to put him to death;" any city which
becomes idolatrous is to be destroyed, the inhabitants and the cattle
are to be slain, and everything else is to be burnt. Deuteronomy xvii.
2-7 is to the same effect. These commands have also borne abundant
fruit. Who can reckon the millions of human lives that have been spilt
in obedience to them? The slaughter of the Midianites, of the people of
Jericho, Ai, Makkedah, Libnah, Lachish, and of many another city,
marking with blood each step of the people of God, who smote "all the
souls that were" in each, and "let none remain"--all these are but as
the first-fruits of the great harvest of human slaughter, reaped for the
glory of God. Right through the "sacred volume" runs the scarlet river,
staining every page; when its record closes, the Church takes it up, and
the river rolls on down the centuries; let the Inquisition tell over its
victims; let Spain reckon her murdered ones, 31,912 burnt alive in that
one land alone; let the Netherlands speak of their slain sons and
daughters; let France and Italy swell the tale; nor let England and
Scotland be forgotten, nor the blood-roll of Ireland be missed; Catholic
murdering Arian; Arian slaying Catholic; Romanist burning Protestant;
Protestant hanging Romanist. The names of those who obey God's command
may be changed, but they all do the same accursed work, spreading
religion everywhere with fire and sword; nor does the harm confine
itself to Jews and Christians only, for Mahomet, the prophet of Arabia,
catches up the teaching of Moses and re-echoes it, and the Moslem
follows on the inspired path, and stains it once again with human blood.
A God, a Bible, a priesthood--how have they ruined the world; how fair
and bright might earth have been had there been no teachers of religion!
  Thou taintest all thou look'st upon......."

--("Queen Mab," by P.B. Shelley; can. 6. Collected works, p. 12, edition 1839.)

Deuteronomy xxi. 10-14 instructs the Hebrew that if, after victory, he sees a beautiful woman
and desires her, he may take her, and if later, "thou have no delight in her, then thou shalt
let her go whither she will," to starvation, to misery, what matter, after God's chosen is
satisfied. Deut. xxiii. 2 punishes a man for that which is no fault of his, his illegitimate
birth. We have omitted many absurd precepts found in this Mosaic code, and have only chosen
those which are grossly immoral, and can be defended by no kind of reasoning as to "defective,"
or "imperfect" morality, "suited to a nation in a low stage of civilisation."

These laws not only fall short of a perfect morality, but they are distinctly and foully immoral,
and tend directly to the brutalisation of the nation which should live under them. It is true
that there is much pure morality in this code, and some refined feeling here and there. These
jewels are curiously out of place in their surroundings. Imagine a people so savage as to need
laws permitting all the abominations referred to above, and yet so cultivated as to be capable
of appreciating the beauty of: "If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his
burden, and wouldest forbear to help him; thou shalt surely help him" (Exodus xxiii. 5). It
is time that it should be publicly acknowledged that the so-called Mosaic code is literally
a mosaic of scattered fragments of legislation, of various ages, and various stages of civilisation,
put together a few hundred years before Christ. At present, the whole code lies on the shoulders
of Christianity, and is fairly pleaded against it by the Freethinker.

It is not necessary to speak here against the practical morality of Old Testament saints; the
very names of Lot, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, Joshua, Samuel, David, etc., bring before
the mind's eye a list of crimes so foul, so cowardly, so bloody, that no enumeration of them
can be needed. Of them, we may fairly say with Virgil:--

    "Non ragioniam di lor, ma guarda e passa."

Turning to the New Testament morality, we may attack it in various ways: we may argue that
the better part of it is not new, and therefore cannot be regarded as especially inspired,
or that it leaves out of account many virtues necessary to the well-being of families and states;
or we may contend that much of it is harmful, and much of it impracticable.

The better part is that which is NON-ORIGINAL. All that is fair and beautiful in Christian
morality had been taught in the world ages before Christ was born. Buddha, Confucius, Lao-Tsze,
Mencius, Zoroaster, Manu, taught the noble human morality found in some of the teaching ascribed
to Christ (throughout this Section the morality put into Christ's mouth in the New Testament
will be treated as his).

Christ taught the duty of returning good for evil. ("Anthology," by Moncure D. Conway, page
240). In the Buddhist Dhammapada we read: "Let a man overcome anger by love; let him overcome
evil by good; let him overcome the greedy by liberality, the liar by truth" (Ibid, p. 307).
Again: "Hatred does not cease by hatred at any time; hatred ceases by love; this is an old
rule" (Ibid, p. 131). Lao-Tsze says: "The good I would meet with goodness. The not good I would
meet with goodness also. The faithful I would meet with faith. The not faithful I would meet
with faith also. Virtue is faithful. Recompense injury with kindness" (Ibid, p. 365). Confucius
struck a yet higher and truer note: "Some one said, 'What do you say concerning the principle
that injury should be recompensed with kindness?' The Sage replied, 'With what, then, will
you recompense kindness? Recompense kindness with kindness, and injury with justice'" (Ibid,
p. 6). Manu places "returning good for evil" in his tenfold system of duties; in his code also
we find: "By forgiveness of injuries the learned are purified" (Ibid, p. 311). The "golden
rule" is as old as the generous and just heart. The Saboean Book of the Law taught: "Let none
of you treat his brother in a way which he himself would dislike" (Ibid, p. 7). "Tsze-Kung
asked, 'Is there one word which may serve as a rule for one's whole life?' Confucius answered,
'Is not reciprocity such a word? What you do not wish done to yourself, do not to others. When
you are labouring for others let it be with the same zeal as if it were for yourself'" (Ibid,
pp. 6, 7).

If Christ taught humility, we read from Lao-Tsze: "I have three precious things which I hold
fast and prize--Compassion, Economy, Humility. Being compassionate, I can therefore be brave.
Being economical, I can therefore be liberal. Not daring to take precedence of the world, I
can therefore become chief among the perfect ones. In the present day men give up compassion,
and cultivate only courage. They give up economy and aim only at liberality. They give up the
last place, and seek only the first. It is their death" (Ibid, p. 216). Lao-Tsze says again:
"By undivided attention to the passion-nature and tenderness it is possible to be a little
child. By putting away impurity from the hidden eye of the heart, it is possible to be without
spot. There is a purity and quietude by which we may rule the whole world. To keep tenderness,
I pronounce strength.... The fact that the weak can conquer the strong and the tender the hard,
is known to all the world; yet none carry it out in practice. The reason of heaven does not
strive, yet conquers well; does not call, yet things come of their own accord; is slack, yet
plans well" (Ibid, pp. 323, 324). Again: "The sage ... puts himself last, and yet is first;
abandons himself, and yet is preserved. Is not this through having no selfishness? Hereby he
preserves self-interest intact. He is not self-displaying, and therefore he shines. He is not
self-approving, and therefore he is distinguished. He is not self-praising, and therefore he
has merit. He is not self-exalting, and therefore he stands high; and inasmuch as he does not
strive, no one in all the world strives with him. That ancient saying, 'He that humbles himself
shall be preserved entire'--oh, it is no vain utterance" (Ibid, pp. 327, 328).

Jesus is said to be pre-eminent as a moral teacher because he directed his teaching to the
improvement of the heart, knowing that from a good heart a good life would flow; in Manu's
code we read: "Action, either mental, verbal, or corporeal, bears good or evil fruit as itself
is good or evil ... of that threefold action be it known in the world that the heart is the
instigator" (Ibid, p. 4). Buddha said: "It is the heart of love and faith accompanying good
actions which spreads, as it were, a beneficent shade from the world of men to the world of
angels" (Ibid, p. 234). Jesus reminded the people that the ceremonial duties of religion were
small compared with "the weightier matters of the law, justice, mercy, and truth;" Manu wrote:
"To a man contaminated by sensuality, neither the Vedas, nor liberality, nor sacrifices, nor
observances, nor pious austerities will procure felicity. A wise man must faithfully discharge
his moral duties, even though he dares not constantly perform the ceremonies of religion. He
will fall very low if he performs ceremonial acts only, and fails to discharge his moral duties"
(Ibid, p. 3). Exactly parallel to a saying of Jesus is one in the Saboean Book of the Law:
"Adhere so firmly to the truth that your yea shall be yea, and your nay, nay" (Ibid, p. 7).

In urging that all great moral duties were taught by pre-Christian thinkers, we do not mean
that Christ took his moral sayings from the books of these great Eastern teachers; there was
no necessity that he should go so far in search of them, for in the teachings of the Rabbis
of his nation he found all of which he stood in need. Many of these teachings have been preserved
in the more modern Talmud, grains of wheat amid much chaff, the moral thoughts of some of the
purest Jewish minds. "Take the Talmud and study it, and then judge from what uninspired source
Jesus drew much of his highest teaching. 'Whoso looketh on the wife of another with a lustful
eye, is considered as if he had committed adultery'--(Kalah). 'With what measure we mete, we
shall be measured again'--(Johanan). 'What thou wouldst not like to be done to thyself, do
not to others; this is the fundamental law'--(Hillel). 'If he be admonished to take the splinter
out of his eye, he would answer, Take the beam out of thine own'--(Tarphon). 'Imitate God in
his goodness. Be towards thy fellow-creatures as he is towards the whole creation. Clothe the
naked; heal the sick; comfort the afflicted; be a brother to the children of thy Father.' The
whole parable of the houses built on the rock and on the sand is taken out of the Talmud, and
such instances of quotation might be indefinitely multiplied" ("On Inspiration;" by Annie Besant;
Scott Series, p. 20). From these founts Jesus drew his morality, and spoke as Jew to Jews,
out of the Jewish teachings. To point out these facts is by no means to disparage the nobler
part of Christian morality. It is rather to elevate Humanity by showing that pure thoughts
and gracious words are human, not divine; that the so-called "inspiration" is in all races
cultivated to a certain point, and not in one alone; that morality is a fair blossom of earth,
not a heaven-transplanted exotic, and grows naturally out of the rich soil of the loving human
heart and the noble human brain.

What nobler or grander moral teachings can be found anywhere than breathe through the following
passages, taken from the "bibles of all nations" so ably collected for us by Mr. Corway in
the "Sacred Anthology" quoted from above? "Let a man continually take pleasure in truth, in
justice, in laudable practices and in purity; let him keep in subjection his speech, his arm,
and his appetites. Wealth and pleasures repugnant to law, let him shun; and even lawful acts
which may cause pain, or be offensive to mankind. Let him not have nimble hands, restless feet,
or voluble eyes; let him not be flippant in his speech, nor intelligent in doing mischief.
Let him walk in the path of good men" (Manu, p. 7). "He who neglecteth the duties of this life
is unfit for this, much less for any higher world" ("Bhagavat Gita," p. 26). "Charity is the
free gift of anything not injurious. If no benefit is intended, or the gift is harmful, it
is not charity. There must also be the desire to assist, or to show gratitude. It is not charity
when gifts are given from other considerations, as when animals are fed that they may be used,
or presents given by lovers to bind affection, or to slaves to stimulate labour. It is found
where man, seeking to diffuse happiness among all men--those he loves, and those he loves not--digs
canals and pools, makes roads, bridges, and seats, and plants trees for shade. It is found
where, from compassion for the miserable and the poor, who have none to help them, a man erects
resting-places for wanderers, and drinking-fountains, or provides food, raiment, medicine for
the needy, not selecting one more than another. This is true charity, and bears much fruit"
("Katha Chari," pp. 219, 220). "Never will I seek, nor receive, private individual salvation--never
enter into final peace alone; but for ever, and everywhere, will I live and strive for the
universal redemption of every creature throughout the world" (Kwan-yin, p. 233). "All men have
in themselves the feelings of mercy and pity, of shame and hatred of vice. It is for each one
by culture to let these feelings grow, or to let them wither. They are part of the organisation
of men, as much as the limbs or senses, and may be trained as well. The mountain Nicon-chau
naturally brings forth beautiful trees. Even when the trunks are cut down, young shoots will
constantly rise up. If cattle are allowed to feed there, the mountain looks bare. Shall we
say, then, that bareness is natural to the mountain? So the lower passions are let loose to
eat down the nobler growths of reverence and love in the heart of man; shall we, therefore,
say that there are no such feelings in his heart at all? Under the quiet peaceful airs of morning
and evening the shoots tend to grow again. Humanity is the heart of man; justice is the path
of man. To know heaven is to develop the principle of our higher nature" (Mencius, pp. 275,
276). "The first requisite in the pursuit of virtue is, that the learner think of his own improvement,
and do not act from a regard to (the admiration of) others" ("The She-King," p. 286). "Benevolence,
justice, fidelity, and truth, and to delight in virtue without weariness, constitute divine
nobility" (Mencius, p. 339). "Virtue is a service man owes himself; and though there were no
heaven, nor any God to rule the world, it were not less the binding law of life. It is man's
privilege to know the right and follow it. Betray and prosecute me, brother men! Pour out your
rage on me, O malignant devils! Smile, or watch my agony with cold disdain, ye blissful gods!
Earth, hell, heaven, combine your might to crush me--I will still hold fast by this inheritance!
My strength is nothing--time can shake and cripple it; my youth is transient--already grief
has withered up my days; my heart--alas! it seems well nigh broken now! Anguish may crush it
utterly, and life may fail; but even so my soul, that has not tripped, shall triumph, and dying,
give the lie to soulless destiny, that dares to boast itself man's master" ("Ramayana," pp.
340, 341). What Christian apostle left behind him the records of such words as those of Confucius,
boldly spoken to a king: "Ke K'ang, distressed about the number of thieves in his kingdom,
inquired of Confucius how he might do away with them? The sage said, 'If you, sir, were not
covetous, the people would not steal, though you should pay them for it.' Ke K'ang asked, 'What
do you say about killing the unprincipled for the good of the principled?' Confucius said,
'In carrying out your government, why use killing at all? Let the rulers desire what is good,
and the people will be good. The grass must bend when the wind blows across it.' How can men
who cannot rectify themselves, rectify others?" ("Analects of Confucius," p. 358).

In "The Wheel of the Law," by Henry Alabaster, we find some most interesting information on
the moral teaching of Buddhism, and the following quotation is taken from one of the Sutras:
"On a certain occasion the Lord Buddha led a number of his disciples to a village of the Kalamachou,
where his wisdom and merit and holiness were known. And the Kalamachou assembled, and did homage
to him and said, 'Many priests and Brahmins have at different times visited us, and explained
their religious tenets, declaring them to be excellent, but each abused the tenets of every
one else, whereupon we are in doubt as to whose religion is right and whose wrong; but we have
heard that the Lord Buddha teaches an excellent religion, and we beg that we may be freed from
doubt, and learn the truth.' And the Lord Buddha answered, 'You were right to doubt, for it
was a doubtful matter. I say unto all of you, Do not believe in what ye have heard; that is,
when you have heard anyone say this is especially good or extremely bad; do not reason with
yourselves that if it had not been true, it would not have been asserted, and so believe in
its truth. Neither have faith in traditions, because they have been handed down for many generations
and in many places. Do not believe in anything because it is rumoured and spoken of by many;
do not think that it is a proof of its truth. Do not believe merely because the written statement
of some old sage is produced; do not be sure that the writing has ever been revised by the
said sage, or can be relied on. Do not believe in what you have fancied, thinking that because
an idea is extraordinary it must have been implanted by a Dewa, or some wonderful being. Do
not believe in guesses, that is, assuming some thing at haphazard as a starting-point, draw
your conclusions from it; reckoning your two and your three and your four before you have fixed
your number one. Do not believe because you think there is analogy, that is, a suitability
in things and occurrences, such as believing that there must be walls of the world, because
you see water in a basin, or that Mount Meru must exist because you have seen the reflection
of trees: or that there must be a creating God because houses and towns have builders.... Do
not believe merely on the authority of your teachers and masters, or believe and practise merely
because they believe and practise. I tell you all, you must of your own selves know that 'this
is evil this is punishable, this is censured by wise men, belief in this will bring no advantage
to one, but will cause sorrow.' And when you know this, then eschew it. I say to all you dwellers
in this village, answer me this. Lopho, that is covetousness, Thoso, that is anger and savageness,
and Moho, that is ignorance and folly--when any or all of these arise in the hearts of men,
is the result beneficial or the reverse?' And they answered, 'It is not beneficial, O Lord!'
Then the Lord continued, 'Covetous, passionate, and ignorant men destroy life and steal, and
commit adultery, and tell lies, and incite others to follow their example, is it not so?' And
they answered, 'It is as the Lord says.' And he continued, 'Covetousness, passion, ignorance,
the destruction of life, theft, adultery, and lying, are these good or bad, right or wrong?
Do wise men praise or blame them? Are they not unprofitable, and causes of sorrow?' And they
replied, 'It is as the Lord has spoken.' And the Lord said, 'For this I said to you, do not
believe merely because you have heard, but when of your own consciousness you know a thing
to be evil, abstain from it.' And then the Lord taught of that which is good, saying, 'If any
of you know of yourselves that anything is good and not evil, praised by wise men, advantageous,
and productive of happiness, then act abundantly according to your belief. (pp. 35-38). In
this wise fashion did Buddha found his morality, basing it on utility, the true measure of
right and wrong. Buddhism has its Five Commandments, certainly equal in value to the Ten Commandments
of Jews and Christians:--

"First. Thou shall abstain from destroying or causing the destruction of any living thing.

"Second. Thou shalt abstain from acquiring or keeping, by fraud or violence, the property of
another.

"Third. Thou shalt abstain from those who are not proper objects for thy lust.

"Fourth. Thou shalt abstain from deceiving others either by word or deed.

"Fifth. Thou shalt abstain from intoxication" (Ibid, p. 57).

From Dr. Muir's translations of "religious and moral sentiments," already quoted from, we might
fill page after page with purest morality. "Let a man be virtuous even while yet a youth; for
life is transitory. "Deluded by avarice, anger, fear, a man does not understand himself. He
plumes himself upon his high birth, contemning those who are not well-born; and overcome by
the pride of wealth, he reviles the poor. He calls others fools, and does not look to himself.
He blames the faults of others, but does not govern himself. When the wise and the foolish,
the rich and the poor, the noble and the ignoble, the proud and the humble, have departed to
the cemetery and all sleep there, their troubles are at an end, and their bodies are stripped
of flesh, little else than bones, united by tendons--other men then perceive no difference
between them, whereby they could recognise a distinction of birth or of form. Seeing that all
sleep, deposited together in the earth, why do men foolishly seek to treat each other injuriously?
He who, after bearing this admonition, acts in conformity therewith from his birth onwards,
shall attain the highest blessedness" (Ibid, xi. 116, p. 23).

Such are a few of the moral teachings current in the East before the time of Christ. Since
that period, these non-Christian nations have gone on in their paths, and many a gem of pure
morality might be culled from their later writings, but we have only here presented teachings
that were pre-Christian, so as to prove how little need there was for a God to become incarnate
to teach morality to the world. "Revealed morality" has nothing grander to say than this earth-born
morality, nothing sublimer comes from Judæa than comes from Hindustan and from China. Just
as the symbolism of Christianity comes from nature, and is common to many creeds, so does the
morality of Christianity flow from nature, and is common to many faiths; when nations attain
to a certain stage of civilisation, and inherit a certain amount of culture, they also develop
a morality proportionate to the point they have reached, because morality is necessary to the
stability of States, and utility formulates the code of moral laws. Christianity can no longer
stand on a pinnacle as the sole possessor of a pure and high morality. The pedestal she has
occupied is built out of the bricks of ignorance, and her apostles and her master must take
rank among their brethren of every age and clime.

It is a serious fault in Christian morality that it has so many OMISSIONS in it. It is full
of exhortations to bear, to suffer, to be patient; it sorely lacks appeals to patriotism, to
courage, to self-respect. "The heroes of Paganism exemplified the heroism of enterprise. Patriotism,
chivalrous deeds of valour, high-souled aspirations after glory, stern justice taking its course
in their hands, while natural feeling was held in abeyance--this was the line in which they
shone. Our blessed Lord illustrated all virtues indeed, but most especially the passive ones.
His heroism took its colouring from endurance. Women, though inferior to men in enterprise,
usually come out better than men in suffering; and it is always to be remembered that our blessed
Lord held his humanity, not of the stronger, but of the weaker sex" ("Thoughts on Personal
Religion," by Dean Goulburn, vol. ii., p. 99; ed. 1866). What is this but to say, in polite
language, that Jesus was very effeminate? The Christian religion has all the vices of slavery,
and encourages submission to evil instead of resistance to it; it has in it the pathetic beauty
of the meekness of the bruised and beaten wife still loving the injurer, of the slave forgiving
the slave-driver, but it is a beauty which perpetuates the wrong of which it is born. Better,
far better, both for oppressor and for oppressed, is resistance to cruelty than submission
to it; submission encourages the wrong-doer where resistance would check him, and Christianity
fails in that it omits to value strong men and true patriots, rebels against authority which
is unjust. Rome taught its citizens to reverence themselves, to love their country, to maintain
freedom: the Roman would die gladly for his mother-country, and deemed his duty as a citizen
the foremost of his obligations. The love of country, and the sense of service owed to the
State, is the grandest and sublimest virtue of the Pagan world. All felt it, from the highest
to the lowest: at Thermopylae the Spartans died gladly for the land they covered with their
bodies, faithful unto death to the duty entrusted to them by their country; men and women equally
felt the paramount claim of the State, and mothers gave their sons to death rather than that
they should fail in duty there. The Roman was taught to value the Republic above its officers;
to resist the highest if he grasped at unfair supremacy; to maintain inviolate the rights and
the liberties of the people. Christianity undermined all these manly virtues; it preached obedience
to "the powers that be," whether they were good or bad; it upheld the authority of a Nero as
"ordained of God," and pronounced damnation on those who resisted him; and so it paved the
way for the despotism of the Middle Ages, by crushing out the manhood of the nations, and fashioning
them into Oriental slaves. Little wonder that kings embraced Christianity, and forced it on
their subjects, for it placed the nations bound at their footstools, and endorsed the tyranny
of man with the authority of God. Throughout the New Testament what word is there of patriotism?
The citizenship is in heaven. What incitement to heroism? Resist not the power. What appeal
to self-reverence? In my flesh dwelleth no good thing. What cry against injustice and oppression?
Honour the king, and give obedience to the froward. Christianity makes a paradise for tyrants
and a hell for the oppressed.

Intertwined with the evil of omissions of duty is the direct injury of commanding NON-RESISTANCE,
and of enforcing INDIFFERENCE TO EARTHLY CARES. (Matt. v. 39-42). The surface meaning of these
words is undeniable; they are the amplification of the command, "resist not evil." What effect
would obedience to these injunctions have upon a State? None committing an assault would be
punished; every unjust suit would succeed; every forced concession would be endorsed; every
beggar would live in luxury; every borrower would spend at will. Nay more; those who did wrong
would be rewarded, and would be thus encouraged to go on in their evil ways. Meanwhile, the
man who was insulted would be again struck; the poor man who had lost one thing would lose
two; the hard-working, frugal labourer would have to support the beggar and the borrower out
of the fruits of his toil. Such is Christ's code of civil laws: he is deliberately abrogating
the Mosaic code, "an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth," and is replacing it by his own.
If the Mosaic law is to be taken literally--as it was--that which is to replace it must also
be taken literally, or else one code would be abolished, and there would be none to succeed
it, so that the State would be left in a condition of lawlessness. Suppose, however, that we
allow that the passage is to be taken metaphorically, what then? A metaphor must mean something:
what does this metaphor mean? It can scarcely signify the exact opposite of what it intimates,
and yet the exact opposite is true morality. Only a system of taking Christ's words "contrariwise"
can make them useful as civil rules, and even "oriental exaggeration" can scarcely be credited
with saying the diametrically contrary of its real meaning. But it is urged that, if all men
were Christians, then this teaching would be right, and Christ was bound to give a perfect
morality. That is to say, if people were different to what they are, this teaching of Christ
would not be injurious because--it would be unneeded! If there were no robbers, and no assaulters,
and no borrowers, then the morality of the Sermon on the Mount would be most harmless. High
praise, truly, for a legislator that his laws would not be injurious when they were no longer
needed. Christ should have remembered that the "law is made for sinners," and that such a law
as he gives here is a direct encouragement to sin.

We can scarcely wonder that, inculcating a course of conduct which must inevitably lead to
poverty, Christ should hold up a state of poverty as desirable. We read in Matthew v. 3, "Blessed
are the poor in spirit" and it is contended that it is poverty only of spirit which Christ
blesses; if so, he blesses the source of much wretchedness, for poor-spirited people get trampled
down, and are a misery to themselves and a burden to those about them. If, however, we turn
to Luke vi. 20, we find the declaration: "Blessed are ye poor," addressed directly to his Apostles,
who were anything but poor in spirit (Luke ix. 46, and xxii. 24); and we find it, further,
joined with the announcement, "blessed are ye that hunger now," and followed by the curses:
"Woe unto you that are rich ... woe unto you that are full." If "hunger" means "hunger after
righteousness," the antithesis "full" must also mean "full of righteousness," a state on which
Christ would surely not pronounce a woe. Mr. Bradlaugh well draws out the various thoughts
in these most unfortunate sayings: "Is poverty of spirit the chief amongst virtues, that Jesus
gives it the prime place in his teaching? Is poverty of spirit a virtue at all? Surely not.
Manliness of spirit, honesty of spirit, fulness of rightful purpose, these are virtues; but
poverty of spirit is a crime. When men are poor in spirit, then do the proud and haughty in
spirit oppress and trample upon them, but when men are true in spirit and determined (as true
men should be) to resist and prevent evil, wrong, and injustice whenever they can, then is
there greater opportunity for happiness here, and no lesser fitness for the enjoyment of future
happiness, in some may be heaven, hereafter. Are you poor in spirit, and are you smitten; in
such case what did Jesus teach? 'Unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the
other' (Luke vi. 29). It were better far to teach that 'he who courts oppression shares the
crime.' Rather say, if smitten once, take careful measures to prevent a future smiting. I have
heard men preach passive resistance, but this teaches actual invitation of injury, a course
degrading in the extreme ... the poverty of spirit principle is enforced to the fullest conceivable
extent--'Him that taketh away thy cloak, forbid not to take thy coat also. Give to every man
that asketh of thee, and of him that taketh away thy goods ask them not again' (Luke vi. 29,
30). Poverty of person is the only possible sequence to this extraordinary manifestation of
poverty of spirit. Poverty of person is attended with many unpleasantnesses; and if Jesus knew
that poverty of goods would result from his teaching, we might expect some notice of this.
And so there is--as if he wished to keep the poor content through their lives with poverty,
he says, 'Blessed be ye poor, for yours is the kingdom of God' (Luke vi. 20) ... Poor in spirit
and poor in pocket. With no courage to work for food, or money to purchase it, we might well
expect to find the man who held these doctrines with empty stomach also; and what does Jesus
teach? 'Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled' ... Craven in spirit, with
an empty purse and hungry mouth--what next? The man who has not manliness enough to prevent
wrong, will probably bemoan his hard fate, and cry bitterly that so sore are the misfortunes
he endures. And what does Jesus teach? 'Blessed are ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh' (Luke
vi. 21) ... Jesus teaches that the poor, the hungry, and the wretched shall be blessed. This
is not so. The blessing only comes when they have ceased to be poor, hungry, and wretched.
Contentment under poverty, hunger, and misery is high treason, not to yourself alone but to
your fellows. These three, like foul diseases, spread quickly wherever humanity is stagnant
and content with wrong" ("What Did Jesus Teach?" pp. 1-3).

But Jesus did more than panegyrise poverty; he gave still more exact directions to his disciples
as to how poverty should be attained. Matt. vi. 25-34 is as mischievous a passage as has been
penned by any moralist. You are more valuable than the birds. God will take equal care of you
if you follow the birds' example. The lilies spin no raiment, yet God clothes them. So shall
he clothe you, if you follow their example. The passage has no meaning, the illustrations no
appositeness, unless Christ means that no thought is to be taken for the future. He makes the
argument still stronger: "the Gentiles seek" meat, drink, and clothing. If Christ only meant
the common-place advice, "do not be over-anxious," he then lays the most absurd stress on it,
and speaks in the most exaggerated way. Sensible Gentiles do not worry themselves by over-anxiety,
after they have taken for the morrow's needs all the care they can; but they do not act like
birds or like lilies, for they know that many a bird starves in a hard winter because it is
not capable of gathering and storing food into barns, and that many a garbless lily is shrivelled
up by the cold east wind. They notice that though men and women are "much better than" birds
and lilies, yet God does not always feed and clothe them; that, on the contrary, many a poor
creature dies of starvation and of winter's bitter cold; when our daily papers record no inquests
on those who die from want, because none but God takes thought for them, then it will be time
enough for us to cease from preparing for the morrow, and to trust that "heavenly Father" who
at present "knoweth that" we "have need of these things," and, knowing, lets so many of his
children starve for lack of them.

The true meaning of Christ is plainly shown by his injunctions to the twelve apostles and to
the seventy when he sent them on a journey: "Take nothing for your journey, neither staves,
nor scrip, neither bread, nor money; neither have two coats apiece" (Luke ix. 3); and: "Carry
neither purse, nor scrip, nor shoes ... in the same house remain, eating and drinking such
things as they give" (Ibid, x. 4, 7). (Matt. xix. 21). The fact is that Jesus held the ascetic
doctrine, that poverty was, in itself, meritorious; and, in common with many sects, he regarded
the highest life as the life of the mendicant teacher. His doctrine of poverty passed on into
the Church that bears his name, and one of the three vows taken by those who aspire to lead
"the angelic life" is the vow of poverty. The mendicant friars of the Middle Ages, the "sturdy
beggars," are the lineal descendants of the Eastern mendicants, and are the fruits of the morality
taught by Christ. On this point, as on many others, the morality of the Epistles is far higher
than that of the Gospels, and the common-sense and righteous law, "that if any would not work
neither should he eat" is, however, incompatible with Christ's admiration for mendicancy, a
far more wholesome and salutary kind of moral teaching than that which we have been considering.

The dogma of rewards and punishments as taught by Christ is fatal to all reality of virtue.
To do right from hope of heaven: to avoid wrong for fear of hell: such virtue is only skin-deep,
and will not stand rough usage. True virtue does right because it is right, and therefore beneficial,
and not from hope of a personal reward, or from dread of a personal punishment, hereafter.
Christianity is the apotheosis of selfishness, gilded over with piety; self is the pivot on
which all turns: "What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?"
(Mark viii. 36). (Matt. x. 41, 42). (Ibid, 32, 33). (Ibid, vi. 6). "We have forsaken all and
followed thee: what shall we have therefore?... When the Son of man shall sit in the throne
of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones" (Matt. xix. 27, 28). The passages might
be multiplied; but these are sufficient to show the thorough selfishness inculcated. All is
done with an eye to personal gain in the future; even the cold water is to be given, not because
the "little one" is thirsty and needs it, but for the reward promised therefore to the giver.
Pure, generous love is excluded: there is a taint of selfishness in every gift.

The thought of Heaven is also injurious to human welfare, because men learn to disregard earth
for the sake of "the glory to be revealed." People whose "citizenship is in heaven," make but
sorry citizens of earth, for they regard this world as "no continuing city," while they "seek
one to come." Hence, as all history shows us, they are apt to despise this world while dreaming
about another, to trouble little about earth's wrongs while thinking of the mansions in the
skies; to acquiesce in any assertion that "the whole world lieth in wickedness," and to trouble
themselves but little as to the means of improving it. From this line of thought follows the
long list of monasteries and nunneries, wherein people "separate" themselves from this world
in order to "prepare" for another. All this evil flows directly from the Christian morality
which teaches that all hopes, efforts, and aims should be turned towards laying up treasures
in heaven, where also the heart should be. One need scarcely add a word of reprobation as to
the horrible doctrine of eternal torture, although that, too, is part of the teaching of Christ.
The whole conscience of civilised mankind is so turning against that shameful and cruel dogma,
that it is only now believed among the illiterate and uncultured of the Christians, and soon
will be too savage even for them. It has, however, hardened the hearts of many in days gone
by, and has made the burning of heretics seem an appropriate act of faith, since men only began
on earth the roasting which God was to continue to all eternity.

The morality of Christ is also faulty because it shares in the persecuting spirit of the Mosaic
code. The disciples are told: "Whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye
depart out of that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet. (Matt. x. 14, 15). Christ
proclaims openly: "Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace,
but a sword. (Ibid, 34-36). To a man whom he calls to follow him, and who asks to be allowed
first to bury his father, Christ gives the brutal reply: "Let the dead bury their dead: but
go thou and preach the kingdom of God" (Luke x. 60). (Ibid, xiv. 26). A religion that destroys
the home, that introduces discord into the family, that bids its votaries hate all else save
Christ, acts as a disintegrating force in human life, and cannot be too strongly opposed.

Neither must we forget the teaching of Christ regarding marriage. He deliberately places virginity
above marriage, and counsels self-mutilation to those capable of making the sacrifice. (Matt.
xix. 11, 12). Following this, 1 Cor. vii. teaches the superiority of an unmarried state, and
threatens "trouble in the flesh" to those who marry. And in Rev. xiv. 1-4, we find, following
the Lamb, with special privileges, 144,000 who "were not defiled with women; for they are virgins."
This coarse and insulting way of regarding women, as though they existed merely to be the safety-valves
of men's passions, and that the best men were above the temptation of loving them, has been
the source of unnumbered evils. To this saying of Christ are due the self-mutilations of many,
such as Origen, and the destruction of myriads of human lives in celibacy; monks and nuns innumerable
owe to this evil teaching their shrivelled lives and withered hearts. For centuries the leaders
of Christian thought spoke of women as of a necessary evil, and the greatest saints of the
Church are those who despised women the most. The subjection of women in Western lands is wholly
due to Christianity. Among the Teutons women were honoured, and held a noble and dignified
place in the tribe; Christianity brought with it the evil Eastern habit of regarding women
as intended for the toys and drudges of man, and intensified it with a special spite against
them, as the daughters of Eve, who was first "deceived." Strangely different to the *general
Eastern feeling and showing a truer and nobler view of life, is the precept of Manu: "Where
women are honoured, there the deities are pleased; but where they are dishonoured, there all
religious acts become fruitless" ("Anthology," p. 310).

Evil also is the teaching that repentance is higher than purity: "joy shall be in heaven over
one sinner that repenth, more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance"
(Luke xv. 7, 10). The fatted calf is slain for the prodigal son, who returns home after he
has wasted all his substance; and to the laborious elder son, during the many years of his
service, the father never gave even a kid that he might make merry with his friends (Ibid,
29). What is all this but putting a premium upon immorality, and instructing people that the
more they sin, the more joyous will be their welcome whenever they may choose to reform, and,
like the prodigal, think to mend their broken fortunes by repentance?

Thoroughly immoral is the teaching contained in the two parables in Luke xvi. In the one, a
steward who has wasted his master's goods, is commended because he went and bribed his employer's
debtors to assist him, by suggesting to them that they should cheat his master by altering
the amount of the bills they owed him. In the other, the parable of the rich man and Lazarus,
the evil moral is taught that riches are in themselves deserving of punishment, and poverty
of reward. The rich man is in hell simply because he was rich, and the poor man in Abraham's
bosom simply because he was poor; it can scarcely add, one may remark, to the pleasure of heaven
for the Lazaruses all to look at the Diveses, and be unable to reach them, even to give them
a single drop of water.

Thus whether we see that the nobler part of the Christian morality is pre-Christian, and is
neither Christian, nor Jewish, nor Hindu, nor Buddhist, but is simply human, and belongs to
the race and not to one creed. Whether we note the omissions in its code, making it insufficient
for human guidance; whether we mark its errors, mistakes, and injurious teachings; whichever
point of view we take from which to consider it, we find in it nothing to distinguish it above
other moral codes, or to prevent it from being classed among other moralities, as being a mixture
of good and bad, and, therefore, not to be taken as an, unerring guide, being like them, all
FALLIBLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX TO SECTION III. OF PART II.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX OF BOOKS USED.

Bhagavat Gita, in Anthology...406
Bradlaugh, The Bible: what it is...397
   "       What Did Jesus Teach?...414
Buddha, in Anthology...403, 405
   "       Wheel of the Law...408

Cahen, Lévitique...398 Colenso, Pentateuch and Book of Joshua...396 Confucius, in Anthology...403,
404, 408

Dante, Inferno...403 Dhammapada, in Anthology...403

Gouldburn, Thoughts on Personal Religion...411

Kalisch, Leviticus...399, 400, 401 Katha-Chari, in Anthology...407 Kwan-yin, in Anthology...407

Lao-Tsze, in Anthology...403, 404

Mahabharata, in Muir...410 Manu, in Anthology...404, 405, 406, 419 Mencius, in Anthology...407

Prayer Book, Art. vi. vii....395

Ramayana, in Anthology...407

Sabaean Book of the Law, in Anthology...404, 405 Shelley, Queen Mab...402 She-King, in Anthology...407
Statutes, 9 and 10 William III. cap. 32...395

Talmud, quoted by Besant...405

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX OF SUBJECTS.

Christian morality, compared with others...403
   "                degrading to women...419
   "                immoral towards sin...419
   "                non-original...403
   "                non-resistant...412
   "                omissions in...411
   "                paved way for despotism...412
   "                persecuting in spirit...418
   "                sanctions mendicancy...416
   "                selfish...417
   "                what included in...395

Heaven and Hell, harm done by belief in...417
Heroism of Paganism...412
Human sacrifice, sanctioned by God...398
   "             among Jews...398

Marriage, teaching of Christ concerning...419
Morality of great Pagan teachers...406
   " compared with that of Christ...403
Murder of blasphemer, sanctioned by God...397
   "      heretics...401

Ordeal, sanctioned by God...401

Poverty inculcated by Christ...414 Prostitution, sanctioned by God...402

Religion, evil of...402

Sale of daughter sanctioned by God...396
   "    thief...396
Slaves, beaten to death...396
Slavery, sanctioned by God...396, 397

Unthrift taught by Christ...415
Utility the test of morality...411
   " religion according to Buddha...408

Value of Christianity to tyrants...412

Witches, number of killed...397 Witch-murder, sanctioned by God...397

SECTION  IV.--ITS HISTORY.

This section does not pretend, within the short limits of some fifty pages, to give even a
complete summary of Christian history. It proposes only to draw up an impeachment against Christianity
from the facts of its history which occurred in the day of its power, from the time of Constantine,
up to the time of the Reformation. If it be urged that Christianity was corrupt during this
period, and ought not therefore to be judged by it, we can only reply that, corrupt or not,
it is the only Christianity there was, and if only bad fruit is brought forth, it is fair to
conclude that the tree which bears nothing else is also bad. If the bishops, and clergy, and
missionaries were ignorant, sensual, tyrannical, and superstitious, they are none the less
the representatives of Christianity, and if these are not true Christians, where are the true
Christians from A.D. 324 to A.D. 1,500?

We propose, in this section, to practically condense the dark side of Mosheim's "Ecclesiastical
History," as translated from the Latin by Dr. A. Maclaine (ed. 1847), only adding, here and
there, extracts from other writers; all extracts, therefore, except where otherwise specified,
will be taken from this valuable history, a history which, perhaps from its size and dryness,
is not nearly so much studied by Freethinkers as it should be; its special worth for our object
is that Dr. Mosheim is a sincere Christian, and cannot, therefore, be supposed to strain any
point unduly against the religion to which he himself belongs.

During the second and third centuries the Christians appear to have grown in power and influence,
and their faith, made up out of many older creeds and forming a kind of eclectic religion,
gradually spread throughout the Roman empire, and became a factor in political problems. In
the struggles between the opposing Roman emperors, A.D. 310-324, the weight of the Christian
influence was thrown on the side of Constantine, his rivals being strongly opposed to Christianity;
Maximin Galerius was a bitter persecutor, and his successor, Maximin, trod in his steps in
A.D. 312, and 313, Maxentius was defeated by Constantine, and Maximin by Licinius, and in A.D.
312 Constantine and Licinius granted liberty of worship to the Christians; in the following
year, according to Mosheim, or in A.D. 314 according to Eusebius, a second edict was issued
from Milan, by the two emperors, which granted "to the Christians and to all, the free choice
to follow that mode of worship which they may wish ... that no freedom at all shall be refused
to Christians, to follow or to keep their observances or worship; but that to each one power
be granted to devote his mind to that worship which he may think adapted to himself" (Eusebius,
"Eccles. Hist." p. 431). Licinius, however, renewed the war against Constantine, who immediately
embraced Christianity, thus securing to himself the sympathy and assistance of the faith which
now for the first time saw its votary on the imperial throne of the world, and Licinius, by
allying himself with Paganism, and persecuting the Christians, drove them entirely over to
Constantine, and was finally defeated and dethroned, A.D. 324. From that date Christianity
was supreme, and became the established religion of the State. Dr. Draper regards the conversion
of Constantine from the point of view taken above. He says: "It had now become evident that
the Christians constituted a powerful party in the State, animated with indignation at the
atrocities they had suffered, and determined to endure them no longer. After the abdication
of Diocletian (A.D. 305), Constantine, one of the competitors for the purple, perceiving the
advantages that would accrue to him from such a policy, put himself forth as the head of the
Christian party. This gave him, in every part of the empire, men and women ready to encounter
fire and sword in his behalf; it gave him unwavering adherents in every legion of the armies.
In a decisive battle, near the Milvian bridge, victory crowned his schemes. The death of Maximin,
and subsequently that of Licinius, removed all obstacles. He ascended the throne of the Cæsars--the
first Christian emperor. Place, profit, power--these were in view of whoever now joined the
conquering sect. Crowds of worldly persons, who cared nothing about its religious ideas, became
its warmest supporters. Pagans at heart, their influence was soon manifested in the Paganisation
of Christianity that forthwith ensued. The emperor, no better than they, did nothing to check
their proceedings. But he did not personally conform to the ceremonial requirements of the
Church until the close of his evil life, A.D. 337" ("History of the Conflict between Religion
and Science," p. 39; ed. 1875). Constantine, in fact, was not baptised until a few days before
his death.

The character of the first Christian emperor is not one which strikes us with admiration. As
emperor he sank into "a cruel and dissolute monarch, corrupted by his fortune, or raised by
conquest above the necessity of dissimulation ... the old age of Constantine was disgraced
by the opposite yet reconcilable vices of rapaciousness and prodigality" (Gibbon's "Decline
and Fall," vol. ii., p. 347). He was as effeminate as he was vicious. "He is represented with
false hair of various colours, laboriously arranged by the skilful artists of the time; a diadem
of a new and more expensive fashion; a profusion of gems and pearls, of collars and bracelets,
and a variegated flowing robe of silk, most curiously embroidered with flowers of gold." To
his other vices he added most bloodthirsty cruelty. He strangled Licinius, after defeating
him; murdered his own son Crispus, his nephew Licinius, and his wife Fausta, together with
a number of others. (Ibid, pp. 471, 472).

The wealth of the Christian churches was considerable during the third century, and the bishops
and clergy lived in much pomp and luxury. "Though several [bishops] yet continued to exhibit
to the world illustrious examples of primitive piety and Christian virtue, yet many were sunk
in luxury and voluptuousness, puffed up with vanity, arrogance, and ambition, possessed with
a spirit of contention and discord, and addicted to many other vices that cast an undeserved
reproach upon the holy religion of which they were the unworthy professors and ministers. This
is testified in such an ample manner by the repeated complaints of many of the most respectable
writers of this age, that truth will not permit us to spread the veil which we should otherwise
be desirous to cast over such enormities among an order so sacred.... The example of the bishops
was ambitiously imitated by the presbyters, who, neglecting the sacred duties of their station,
abandoned themselves to the indolence and delicacy of an effeminate and luxurious life. The
deacons, beholding the presbyters deserting thus their functions, boldly usurped their rights
and privileges; and the effects of a corrupt ambition were spread through every rank of the
sacred order" (p. 73). During this century also we find much scandal caused by the pretended
celibacy of the clergy, for the people--regarding celibacy as purer than marriage, and considering
that "they, who took wives, were of all others the most subject to the influence of malignant
demons"--urged their clergy to remain celibate, "and many of the sacred order, especially in
Africa, consented to satisfy the desires of the people, and endeavoured to do this in such
a manner as not to offer an entire violence to their own inclinations. For this purpose, they
formed connections with those women who had made vows of perpetual chastity; and it was an
ordinary thing for an ecclesiastic to admit one of these fair saints to the participation of
his bed, but still under the most solemn declarations, that nothing passed in this commerce
that was contrary to the rules of chastity and virtue" (p. 73). Such was the morality of the
clergy as early as the third century!

The doctrine of the Church in these primitive times was as confused as its morality was impure.
In the first century (during which we really know nothing of the Christian Church), Dr. Mosheim,
in dealing with "divisions and heresies," points to the false teachers mentioned in the New
Testament, and the rise of the Gnostic heresy. Gnosticism (from [Greek: gnosis] knowledge),
a system compounded of Christianity and Oriental philosophy, long divided the Church with the
doctrines known as orthodox. The Gnostics believed in the existence of the two opposing principles
of good and evil, the latter being by many considered as the creator of the world. They held
that from the Supreme God emanated a number of Æons--generally put at thirty; (see throughout
"Irenæus Against Heresies")--and some maintained that one of these, Christ, descended on the
man Jesus at his baptism, and left him again just before his passion; others that Jesus had
not a real, but only an apparent, body of flesh. The Gnostic philosophy had many forms and
many interdivisions; but most of the "heresies" of the first centuries were branches of this
one tree: it rose into prominence, it is said, about the time of Adrian, and among its early
leaders were Marcion, Basilides, and Valentinus. In addition to the various Gnostic theories,
there was a deep mark of division between the Jewish and the Gentile Christians; the former
developed into the sects, of Nazarenes and Ebionites, but were naturally never very powerful
in the Church. In the second century, as the Christians become more visible, their dissensions
are also more clearly marked; and it is important to observe that there is no period in the
history of Christianity wherein those who laid claim to the name "Christian" were agreed amongst
themselves as to what Christianity was. Gnosticism we see now divided into two main branches,
Asiatic and Egyptian. The Asiatic believed that, in addition to the two principles of good
and evil, there was a third being, a mixture of both, the Demiurgus, the creator, whose son
Jesus was; they maintained that the body of Jesus was only apparent; they enforced the severest
discipline against the body, which was evil, in that it was material; and marriage, flesh,
and wine were forbidden. The Elcesaites were a judaising branch of this Asiatic Gnosticism;
Saturninus of Antioch, Ardo of Syria, and Marcion of Pontus headed the movement, and after
them Lucan, Severus, Blastes, Apelles, and Bardesanes formed new sects. Tatian (see ante, pp.
259, 260) had many followers called Tatianists, and in connection with him and his doctrines
we hear of the Eucratites, Hydroparastates (the water-drinkers), and Apotactites. The Eucratites
appear to have been in existence before Tatian professed Gnosticism, but he so increased their
influence as to be sometimes regarded as their founder. The Egyptian Gnostics were less ascetic,
and mostly favoured the idea that Jesus had a real body on which the Æon descended and joined
himself thereunto. They regarded him as born naturally of Joseph and Mary. Basilides, and Valentinus
headed the Egyptians, and then we have as sub-divisions the Carpocratians, Ptolemaites, Secundians,
Heracleonites, Marcosians, Adamites, Cainites, Sethites, Florinians, Ophites, Artemonites,
and Hermogenists; in addition to these we have the Monarchians or Patripassians, who maintained
that there was but one God, and that the Father suffered (whence this name) in the person of
Christ. This long list may be closed with the Montanists, a sect joined by Tertullian (see
his account of the orthodox after he became a Montanist, ante, p. 225); they held that Montanes,
their founder, was the Paraclete promised by Christ, missioned to complete the Christian code;
he forbade second marriages, the reception into the Church of those who had been excommunicated
for grievous sin, and inculcated the sternest asceticism. He opposed all learning as anti-Christian,
a doctrine which was rapidly spreading among Christians, and which seems, indeed, to have been
an integral part of the religion from its very beginning (Matt. xi. 25, 1 Cor. i. 26, 27).
In the third century the heretic camp received a new light in the person of Manes, or Manichæus,
a Persian magus; he appears to have been a man of great learning, a physician, an astronomer,
a philosopher. He taught the old Persian creed tinctured with Christianity, Christ being identical
with Mithras (see ante, p. 362), and having come upon earth in an apparent body only to deliver
mankind. Manes was the paraclete sent to complete his teaching; the body was evil, and only
by long struggle and mortification could man be delivered from it, and reach final blessedness.
Those who desired to lead the highest life, the elect, abstained from flesh, eggs, milk, fish,
wine, and all intoxicating drink, and remained in the strictest celibacy; they were to live
on bread, herbs, pulse, and melons, and deny themselves every comfort and every gratification
(see pp. 80-82). The Hieracites in Egypt were closely allied with the Manichæans. The Novatians
differed from the orthodox only in their refusal to receive again into the Church any who had
committed grievous crimes, or who had lapsed during persecution. The Arabians denied the immortality
of the soul, maintaining that it died with the body, and that body and soul together would
be revivified by God. The controversies on the persons of the Godhead now increased in intensity.
Noctus of Smyrna maintained the doctrine of the Patripassians, that God was one and indivisible,
and suffered to redeem mankind; Sabellius also taught that God was one, but that Jesus was
a man, to whom was united a "certain energy only, proceeding from the Supreme Parent" (p. 83).
He also denied the separate personality of the Holy Ghost. Paul of Samosata, Bishop of Antioch,
taught a cognate doctrine, and founded the sect of the Paulians or Paulianists, and was consequently
degraded from his office. Thus we see that the history of the Church, before it came to power,
is a mass of quarrels and divisions, varied by ignorance and licentiousness. If we exclude
Origen, whose writings contain much that is valuable, the works produced by Christian writers
in these centuries might be thrown into the sea, and the world would be none the poorer for
the loss.

CENTURY IV.

Constantine attained undisputed and sole authority A.D. 324, and in the year 325 he summoned
the first general council, that of Nicea, or Nice, which condemned the errors of Arius, and
declared Christ to be of the same substance as the Father. This council has given its name
to the "Nicene Creed," although that creed, as now recited, differs somewhat from the creed
issued at Nice, and received its present form at the Council of Constantinople, A.D. 381. During
the reign of Constantine, the Church grew swiftly in power and influence, a growth much aided
by the penal laws passed against Paganism. The moment Christianity was able to seize the sword,
it wielded it remorselessly, and cut its way to supremacy in the Roman world. Bribes and penalties
shared together in the work of conversion. The cities, which signalised a forward zeal by the
voluntary destruction of their temples, were distinguished by municipal privileges and rewarded
with popular donatives; and the new capital of the East gloried in the singular advantage that
Constantinople was never profaned by the worship of idols. (Gibbon's "Decline and Fall," vol.
ii. pp. 472, 473). With Constantine began the ruinous system of dowering the Church with State
funds. The emperor directed the treasurers of the province of Carthage to pay over to the bishop
of that district £18,000 sterling, and to honour his further drafts. Constantine also gave
his subjects permission to bequeath their fortunes to the Church, and scattered public money
among the bishops with a lavish hand. The three sons of Constantine followed in his steps,
"continuing to abrogate and efface the ancient superstitions of the Romans, and other idolatrous
nations, and to accelerate the progress of the Christian religion throughout the empire. This
zeal was no doubt, laudable; its end was excellent; but, in the means used to accomplish it,
there were many things worthy of blame" (p. 88). Julian succeded to part of the empire in A.D.
360, and to sole authority in A.D. 361. He was educated as a Christian, but reverted to philosophic
Paganism, and during his short reign he revoked the special privileges granted to Christianity,
and placed all creeds on the most perfect civil equality. Julian's dislike of Christianity,
and his philosophic writings directed against it, have gained for him, from Christian writers,
the title of "the Apostate." The emperors who succeeded were, however, all Christian, and used
their best endeavours to destroy Paganism. Christianity spread apace; "multitudes were drawn
into the profession of Christianity, not by the power of conviction and argument, but by the
prospect of gain, and the fear of punishment" (p. 102). "The zeal and diligence with which
Constantine and his successors exerted themselves in the cause of Christianity, and in extending
the limits of the Church, prevent our surprise at the number of barbarous and uncivilised nations,
which received the Gospel" (p. 90); and Dr. Mosheim admits that: "There is no doubt but that
the victories of Constantine the Great, the fear of punishment, and the desire of pleasing
this mighty conqueror and his imperial successors, were the weighty arguments that moved whole
nations, as well as particular persons, to embrace Christianity" (p. 91). Fraud, as well as
force and favour, lent its aid to the progress of "the Gospel." We hear of the "imprudent methods
employed to allure the different nations to embrace the Gospel" (p. 98): "disgraceful" would
be a fitter term whereby to designate them, for Dr. Mosheim speaks of "the endless frauds of
those odious impostors, who were so far destitute of all principles, as to enrich themselves
by the ignorance and errors of the people. Rumours were artfully spread abroad of prodigies
and miracles to be seen in certain places (a trick often practised by the heathen priests),
and the design of these reports was to draw the populace, in multitudes, to these places, and
to impose upon their credulity ... Nor was this all; certain tombs were falsely given out for
the sepulchres of saints and confessors. The list of the saints was augmented by fictitious
names, and even robbers were converted into martyrs. Some buried the bones of dead men in certain
retired places, and then affirmed that they were divinely admonished, by a dream, that the
body of some friend of God lay there. Many, especially of the monks, travelled through the
different provinces; and not only sold, with most frontless impudence, their fictitious relics,
but also deceived the eyes of the multitude with ludicrous combats with evil spirits or genii.
A whole volume would be requisite to contain an enumeration of the various frauds which artful
knaves practised, with success, to delude the ignorant, when true religion was almost entirely
superseded by horrid superstition" (p. 98). When to all these weapons we add the forgeries
everywhere circulated (see ante, pp. 240-243), we can understand how rapidly Christianity spread,
and how "the faithful" were rendered pliable to those whose interests lay in deceiving them.
During this century flourished some of the greatest fathers of the Church, pre-eminent among
whom we note Ambrose, of Milan, Augustine, of Hippo, and the great ecclesiastical doctor, Jerome.
Already, in this century, we find clear traces of the supremacy of the bishop of Rome, and
"when a new pontiff was to be elected by the suffrages of the presbyters and the people, the
city of Rome was generally agitated with dissensions, tumults, and cabals, whose consequences
were often deplorable and fatal" (p. 94). By a decree of the Council of Constantinople, the
bishop of that city was given precedence next after the Roman prelate, and the jealousy which
arose between the bishops of the two imperial cities fomented the disputes which ended, finally,
in the separation of the Eastern and Western Churches. Of the officers of the Church in this
century we read that: "The bishops, on the one hand, contended with each other, in the most
scandalous manner, concerning the extent of their respective jurisdictions, while, on the other,
they trampled upon the rights of the people, violated the privileges of the inferior ministers,
and imitated, in their conduct, and in their manner of living, the arrogance, voluptuousness,
and luxury of magistrates and princes" (pp. 95, 96).

In this century is the first instance of the burning alive of a heretic, and it was Spain who
lighted that first pile. Theodosius, of all the emperors of this age, was the bitterest persecutor
of the heretic sects. (Gibbon's "Decline and Fall," vol. iii. pp. 412, 413).

One important event of this century must not be omitted, the dispersion of the great Alexandrine
library, collected by the Ptolemies. In the siege of Alexandria by Julius Cæsar, the Philadelphian
library in the museum, containing some 400,000 volumes, had been burned; but there still remained
the "daughter library" in the Serapion, containing about 300,000 books. During the episcopate
of Theophilus, predecessor of Cyril, a riot took place between the Christians and the Pagans,
and the latter "held the Serapion as their head-quarters. Such were the disorder and bloodshed
that the emperor had to interfere. He despatched a rescript to Alexandria, enjoining the bishop,
Theophilus, to destroy the Serapion; and the great library, which had been collected by the
Ptolemies, and had escaped the fire of Julius Cæsar, was by that fanatic dispersed" ("Conflict
of Religion and Science," p. 54), A.D. 389. To Christian bigotry it is that we owe the loss
of these rich treasures of antiquity.

Heresies grew and strengthened during this fourth century. Chief leader in the heretic camp
was Arius, a presbyter of Alexandria; he asserted that the Son, although begotten of the Father
before the creation of aught else, was not "of the same substance" as the Father, but only
"of like substance;" a vast number of the Christians embraced his definition, and thus began
the long struggle between the Arians and the Catholics. (Ibid, p. 53). (Gibbon's "Decline and
Fall," vol. iii. p. 402). Arius maintained that "the Logos was a dependent and spontaneous
production, created from nothing by the will of the Father. The Son, by whom all things were
made, had been begotten before all worlds, and the longest of the astronomical periods could
be compared only as a fleeting moment to the extent of his duration; yet this duration was
not infinite, and there had been a time which preceded the ineffable generation of the Logos....
He governed the universe in obedience to the will of his Father and Monarch" (Ibid, pp. 18,19).
The "Nicene creed" of the Prayer-book consists of the creed promulgated by the Council of Nice,
with the anathema at the end omitted, and with the addition of some phrases joined to it at
the Council at Constantinople, and the insertion of the Filioque. At the Council of Nice, Arius
was condemned and banished, to the triumph of his great opponent, Athanasius; but he was recalled
in A.D. 330, obtained the banishment of Athanasius in A.D. 335, and died suddenly, under very
suspicious circumstances, in A.D. 336. Throughout this century the struggle proceeded furiously,
each party in turn getting the upper hand, as the emperor of the time inclined towards Catholicism
or towards Arianism, and each persecuting the adherents of the other. Among Arian subdivisions
we find Semi-Arians, Eusebians, Aetians, Eunomians, Acasians, Psathyrians, etc. Then we have
the Apollinarians, who maintained that Christ had no human soul, the divinity supplying its
place; the Marcellians, who taught that a divine emanation descended on Christ. Allied to the
Manichæan heresy were the Priscillians, the Saccophori, the Solitaries, and many others; and,
in addition, the Messalians or Euchites, the Luciferians, the Origenists, the Antidicomarianites,
and the Collyridians. A quarrel about the consecration of a bishop gave rise to fierce struggles
not connected with the doctrine, so much as with the discipline of the Church. The Bishops
of Numidia were angered by not having been called to the consecration of Cæcilianus Bishop
of Carthage, and, assembling together, they elected and consecrated a rival bishop to that
see, and declared Cæcilianus incompetent for the episcopal office. Donatus, Bishop of Casa
Nigra, was the foremost of these Numidian malcontents, and from him the sect of Donatists took
its name; they denied the orders of those ordained by Cæcilianus, and hence the validity of
the Sacraments administered by them. Excommunicated themselves, "they boldly excommunicated
the rest of mankind who had embraced the impious party of Cæcilianus, and of the traditors,
from whom he derived his pretended ordination. They asserted with confidence, and almost with
exultation, that the apostolical succession was interrupted, that all the bishops of Europe
and Asia were infected by the contagion of guilt and schism, and that the prerogatives of the
Catholic Church were confined to the chosen portion of the African believers, who alone had
preserved inviolate the integrity of their faith and discipline. This rigid theory was supported
by the most uncharitable conduct. Whenever they acquired a proselyte, even from the distant
provinces of the east, they carefully repeated the sacred rites of baptism and ordination;
as they rejected the validity of those which he had already received from the hands of heretics
or of schismatics" (Gibbon's "Decline and Fall," vol. iii. pp. 5, 6). A number of Donatists,
known as Circumcelliones, "maintained their cause by the force of arms, and overrunning all
Africa, filled that province with slaughter and rapine, and committed the most enormous acts
of perfidy and cruelty against the followers of Caecilianus" (p. 109). To complete the darkly
terrible picture of the Church in the fourth century, we need only note the various orders
of fanatical monks, filthy in their habits, densely ignorant, hopelessly superstitious, amongst
whom may be numbered the travelling mendicants called Sarabaites. "Many of the Coenobites were
chargeable with vicious and scandalous practices. This order, however, was not so universally
corrupt as that of the Sarabaites, who were, for the most part, profligates of the most abandoned
kind" (p. 102). The pen wearies over the list of scandals of these early Christian ages; we
can but sketch the outline here; let the student fill the picture in, and he will find even
blacker shades needed to darken it enough.

CENTURY V.

This century sees the destruction of the Roman Empire of the West, and the rise into importance
of the great Gothic monarchies. The Christian emperors of the East put down paganism with a
strong hand, conferring state offices on Christians only, and forbidding pagan ceremonies [unless
under Christian names]. The sons of Constantine had pronounced the penalty of death and confiscation
against any who sacrificed to the old gods; and Theodosius, in A.D. 390, had forbidden, under
heavy penalties, all pagan rites. This work of repression was rigorously carried on. Clovis,
king of the Franks, embraced Christianity, finding its profession "of great use to him, both
in confirming and enlarging his empire" (p. 117); and many of the barbarous tribes were "converted
to the faith" by means of pretended miracles, "pious frauds ... very commonly practised in
Gaul and in Spain at this time, in order to captivate, with more facility, the minds of a rude
and barbarous people, who were scarcely susceptible of a rational conviction" (pp. 117, 118).
The supremacy of the see of Rome advanced with rapid strides during this century. The people
depending, in their superstitious ignorance, on the clergy, and the clergy on the bishops,
it became the interest of the savage kings to be on friendly terms with the latter, and to
increase their influence; and as the bishops, in their turn, leant upon the central authority
of Rome, the power of the pontiff rapidly increased. This power was still further augmented
by the struggles for supremacy among the Eastern bishops, for by favouring sometimes one and
sometimes another, he fostered the habit of looking to Rome for aid. In the East, five "patriarchs"
were raised over the rest of the bishops, the Patriarch of Constantinople standing at their
head. Thus, East and West drifted ever more apart. Mosheim speaks of "the ambitious quarrels
and the bitter animosities that rose among the patriarchs themselves, and which produced the
most bloody wars, and the most detestable and horrid crimes. The Patriarch of Constantinople
distinguished himself in these odious contests. Elated with the favour and proximity of the
Imperial Court, he cast a haughty eye on all sides, where any objects were to be found on which
he might exercise his lordly ambition. On the one hand, he reduced under his jurisdiction the
Patriarchs of Alexandria and Antioch, as prelates only of the second order; and on the other,
he invaded the diocese of the Roman Pontiff, and spoiled him of several provinces. The two
former prelates, though they struggled with vehemence and raised considerable tumults by their
opposition, yet they struggled ineffectually, both for want of strength, and likewise on account
of a variety of unfavourable circumstances. But the Roman Pontiff, far superior to them in
wealth and power, contended also with more vigour and obstinacy; and, in his turn, gave a deadly
wound to the usurped supremacy of the Byzantine Patriarch. The attentive inquirer into the
affairs of the Church, from this period, will find, in the events now mentioned, the principal
source of those most scandalous and deplorable dissensions which divided first the Eastern
Church into various sects, and afterwards separated it entirely from that of the West. He will
find that these ignominious schisms flowed chiefly from the unchristian contentions for dominion
and supremacy which reigned among those who set themselves up for the fathers and defenders
of the Church" (p. 123).

Learning during this century fell lower and lower, in spite of the schools established and
fostered by the emperors, and while knowledge diminished, vice increased. "The vices of the
clergy were now carried to the most enormous lengths; and all the writers of this century,
whose probity and virtue render them worthy of credit, are unanimous in their accounts of the
luxury, arrogance, avarice, and voluptuousness of the sacerdotal orders. The bishops, particularly
those of the first rank, created various delegates or ministers, who managed for them the affairs
of their dioceses, and a sort of courts were gradually formed, where these pompous ecclesiastics
gave audience, and received the homage of a cringing multitude" (p. 123). Superstition performed
its maddest freak in the Stylites, men "who stood motionless on the tops of pillars;" the original
maniac being one Simon, a Syrian, who actually spent thirty-seven years of his life on pillars,
the last of which was forty cubits high. Another of the same class spent sixty-eight years
in this useful manner (see pp. 128, 129, and note). The Agapae were abolished, and auricular
confession was established, during this century.

Among the bishops of this century, one name deserves an immortality of infamy. It is that of
Cyril, Bishop of Alexandria. Under his rule took place the terrible murder of Hypatia, that
pure and beautiful Platonic teacher, who was dragged by a fanatic mob, headed by Peter the
Reader, into the great church of Alexandria, and tortured to death on the steps of the high
altar. Cyril's "hold upon the audiences of the giddy city [Alexandria] was, however, much weakened
by Hypatia, the daughter of Theon, the mathematician, who not only distinguished herself by
her expositions of the doctrines of Plato and Aristotle, but also by her comments on the writings
of Apollonius and other geometers. Philosophy and bigotry. They cannot exist together. So Cyril
felt, and on that feeling he acted. (Draper's "Conflict between Religion and Science," p. 55).

The heresies of the last century were continued in this, and various new ones arose. Chief
among these was the heresy of Nestorius, a Bishop of Constantinople, who distinguished so strongly
between the two natures in Christ as to make a double personality, and he regarded the Virgin
Mary as mother of Christ, but not mother of God. The Council of Ephesus (A.D. 431) was called
to decide the point, and was presided over by the great antagonist of Nestorius, Cyril, Bishop
of Alexandria. The matter was settled very quickly. Church Councils vote on disputed points,
and the vote of the majority constitutes orthodoxy. The Council was held before the arrival
of the bishops who sympathised with Nestorius, and thus, by the simple expedient of getting
everything over before the opponents arrived, it was settled for evermore that Christ is one
person with two natures. A heresy of the very opposite character was that of Eutyches, abbot
of the monastery in Constantinople. He maintained that in Christ there was only one nature,
"that of the incarnate word," and his opinion was endorsed by a council called at Ephesus,
A.D. 449; but this decree was annulled by the Council of Chalcedon (reckoned the fourth OEcumenical),
A.D. 451, wherein it was again declared that Christ had two natures in one person. It was at
the Council of Ephesus, in A.D. 449, that Flavianus, Bishop of Constantinople, was so beaten
by the other bishops that he died of his wounds, and the bishops who held with him hid themselves
under benches to get out of the way of their infuriate brothers in Christ (see notes on pp.
136, 137). The Theopaschites were a branch of the Eutychian heresy, and the Monophysites were
a cognate sect; from these arose the Acephali, Anthropomorphites, Barsanuphites, and Esaianists.
Not less important than the heresy of Eutyches was that of Pelagius, a British monk, who taught
that man did not inherit original sin on account of Adam's fall, but that each was born unspotted
into the world, and was capable of rising to the height of virtue by the exercise of his natural
faculties. The semi-Pelagians held that man could turn to God by his own strength, but that
divine grace was necessary to enable him to persevere.

One heretic of this period deserves a special word of record. Vigilantius was a Gallic priest,
remarkable for his eloquence and learning, and he devoted himself to an effort to reform the
Church in Spain. "Among other things, he denied that the tombs and the bones of the martyrs
were to be honoured with any sort of homage or worship; and therefore censured pilgrimages
that were made to places that were reputed holy. He turned into derision the prodigies which
were said to be wrought in the temples consecrated to martyrs, and condemned the custom of
performing vigils in them. He asserted, and indeed with reason, that the custom of burning
tapers at the tombs of the martyrs in broad day, was imprudently borrowed from the ancient
superstition of the Pagans. He maintained, moreover, that prayers addressed to departed saints
were void of all efficacy; and treated with contempt fastings and mortifications, the celibacy
of the clergy, and the various austerities of the monastic life. And finally he affirmed that
the conduct of those who, distributing their substance among the indigent, submitted to the
hardships of a voluntary poverty, or sent a part of their treasures to Jerusalem for devout
purposes, had nothing in it acceptable to the Deity" (p. 129). Under these circumstances we
can scarcely wonder that Vigilantius was scouted as a heretic by all orthodox, lucre-loving
clerics. He is the forerunner of a long line of protesters against the ever-growing strength
and superstition of the Church.

CENTURY VI.

The darkness deepens as we proceed. Christianity spread among the barbarous tribes of the East
and West, but "it must, however, be acknowledged, that of these conversions, the greatest part
were owing to the liberality of the Christian princes, or to the fear of punishment, rather
than to the force of argument or to the love of truth. In Gaul, the Jews were compelled by
Childeric to receive the ordinance of baptism; and the same despotic method of converting was
practised in Spain" (p. 141). "They required nothing of these barbarous people that was difficult
to be performed, or that laid any remarkable restraint upon their appetites and passions. The
principal injunctions they imposed upon these rude proselytes were that they should get by
heart certain summaries of doctrine, and to pay the images of Christ and the saints the same
religious services which they had formerly offered to the statues of the gods" (p. 142). Libraries
were formed in many of the monasteries, and schools were opened, but apparently only for those
who intended to enter the monastic life; these, however, did not flourish, for many bishops
showed "bitter aversion" towards "every sort of learning and erudition, which they considered
as pernicious to the progress of piety" (p. 144). "Greek literature was almost everywhere neglected....
Philosophy fared still worse than literature; for it was entirely banished from all the seminaries
which were under the inspection and government of the ecclesiastical order" (Ibid). The wealth
of the Church grew apace. "The arts of a rapacious priesthood were practised upon the ignorant
devotion of the simple; and even the remorse of the wicked was made an instrument of increasing
the ecclesiastical treasure. For an opinion was propagated with industry among the people,
that the remission of their sins was to be purchased by their liberalities to the churches
and monks" (p. 146). "The monastic orders, in general, abounded with fanatics and profligates;
the latter were more numerous than the former in the Western convents, while in those of the
East the fanatics were predominant" (ibid). It was in this century (A.D. 529) that the great
Benedictine rule was composed by Benedict of Nursia. The Council of Constantinople, A.D. 553,
is reckoned as the fifth general Council. It is said to have condemned the doctrines of Origen,
thus summarised by Mosheim:--"1. That in the Trinity the Father is greater than the Son, and
the Son than the Holy Ghost. 2. The pre-existence of souls, which Origen considered as sent
into mortal bodies for the punishment of sins committed in a former state of being. 3. That
the soul of Christ was united to the word before the incarnation. 4. That the sun, moon, and
stars, etc., were animated and endowed with rational souls. 5. That after the resurrection
all bodies will be of a round figure. 6. That the torments of the damned will have an end;
and that as Christ had been crucified in this world to save mankind, he is to be crucified
in the next to save the devils" (p. 151, note). Among the various notabilities of this age
none are specially worthy attention, save Brethius, Cassiodorus, Gregory the Great, Benedict
of Nursia, Gregory of Tours, and Isidore of Seville. The heresies of former centuries continued
during this, and several unimportant additional sects sprang up. The Monophysites gained in
strength under Jacob, Bishop of Edessa, and became known as Jacobites, and exist to this day
in Abyssinia and America. Six small sects grew up among the Monophysites and died away again,
which held varying opinions about the nature of the body of Christ We find also the Corrupticolæ,
Agnoetæ, Tritheists, Philoponists, Cononites, and Damianists, the four last of which differed
as to the nature of the Trinity. Thus was rent into innumerable factions the supposed-to-be-indivisible
Christianity, and the most bloody persecutions disgraced the uppermost party of the moment.

CENTURY VII.

Many are the missionary enterprises of this century, and we find the missionaries grasping
at temporal power, and exercising a "princely authority over the countries where their ministry
had been successful" (p. 157). Learning had almost vanished; "they, who distinguished themselves
most by their taste and genius, carried their studies little farther than the works of Augustine
and Gregory the Great; and it is of scraps collected out of these two writers, and patched
together without much uniformity, that the best productions of this century are entirely composed....
The schools which had been committed to the care and inspection of the bishops, whose ignorance
and indolence were now become enormous, began to decline apace, and were in many places, fallen
into ruin. The bishops in general were so illiterate, that few of that body were capable of
composing the discourses which they delivered to the people. Such of them as were not totally
destitute of genius, composed out of the writings of Augustine and Gregory a certain number
of insipid homilies, which they divided between themselves, and their stupid colleagues, that
they might not be obliged through incapacity to discontinue preaching the doctrines of Christianity
to their people" (p. 159). "The progress of vice among the subordinate rulers and ministers
of the Church was, at this time, truly deplorable.... In those very places, that were consecrated
to the advancement of piety and the service of God, there was little else to be seen than ghostly
ambition, insatiable avarice, pious frauds, intolerable pride, and a supercilious contempt
of the natural rights of the people, with many other vices still more enormous" (p. 161). The
wealth of the Church increased rapidly; it grew fat on the wages of sin. "Abandoned profligates,
who had passed their days in the most enormous pursuits, and whose guilty consciences filled
them with terror and remorse, were comforted with the delusive hopes of obtaining pardon, and
making atonement for their crimes by leaving the greatest part of their fortune to some monastic
society. Multitudes, impelled by the unnatural dictates of a gloomy superstition, deprived
their children of fertile lands and rich patrimonies in favour of the monks, by whose prayers
they hoped to render the Deity propitious" (p. 161). The only new sect of any importance in
this century is that of the Monothelites, later known as Maronites; they taught that Christ
had but one will, but the doctrine is wrapped up in so many subtleties as to be almost incomprehensible.
They were condemned, in the sixth General Council, held at Constantinople, A.D. 680. It was
during this century that "Boniface V. enacted that infamous law, by which the churches became
places of refuge to all who fled thither for protection; a law which procured a sort of impunity
to the most enormous crimes, and gave a loose rein to the licentiousness of the most abandoned
profligates" (p. 164). The effect of this law was that the monasteries became the refuge of
bandits and murderers, who issued from them to plunder and to destroy, and paid for the security
of their persons by bestowing on their hosts a portion of the spoil they had collected during
their raids. Such were the civilizing and purifying effects of Christianity.

CENTURY VIII.

Winfred, better known as Boniface, "the Apostle of Germany," is, perhaps, the chief ecclesiastical
figure of this century. He taught Christianity right through Germany; was consecrated bishop
in A.D. 723, created archbishop in A.D. 738, and Primate of Germany and Belgium in A.D. 746;
in A.D. 755 he was murdered in Friesland, with fifty other ecclesiastics. Much stress is laid
upon his martyrdom by Christian writers, but Boniface, after all, only received from the Frieslanders
the measure he had meted out to their brethren, and there seems no good reason why Christian
missionaries should claim a monopoly of the right to kill. Mosheim allows that he "often employed
violence and terror, and sometimes artifice and fraud" (p. 169) in order to gain converts,
and he was supported by Charles Martel, the enemy of Friesland, and appeared among the Germans
as the friend and agent of their foes. A few years later, Charlemagne spread Christianity among
the Saxons with great vigour. For "a war broke out, at this time, between Charlemagne and the
Saxons, which contributed much to the propagation of Christianity, though not by the force
of a rational persuasion. The Saxons were, at this time, a numerous and formidable people,
who inhabited a considerable part of Germany, and were engaged in perpetual quarrels with the
Franks concerning their boundaries, and other matters of complaint. Hence Charlemagne turned
his armies against this powerful nation, A.D. 772, with a design not only to subdue that spirit
of revolt with which they had so often troubled the empire, but also to abolish their idolatrous
worship, and engage them to embrace the Christian religion. He hoped, by their conversion,
to vanquish their obstinacy, imagining that the divine precepts of the Gospel would assuage
their impetuous and restless passions, mitigate their ferocity, and induce them to submit more
tamely to the government of the Franks. These projects were great in idea, but difficult in
execution; accordingly, the first attempt to convert the Saxons, after having subdued them,
was unsuccessful, because it was made without the aid of violence, or threats, by the bishops
and monks, whom the victor had left among that conquered people, whose obstinate attachment
to idolatry no arguments nor exhortations could overcome. [Mark the naïveté of this confession.]
More forcible means were afterwards used to draw them into the pale of the Church, in the wars
which Charlemagne carried on in the years 775, 776, and 780, against that valiant people, whose
love of liberty was excessive, and whose aversion to the restraints of sacerdotal authority
was inexpressible. During these wars their attachment to the superstition of their ancestors
was so warmly combated by the allurements of reward, by the terror of punishment, and by the
imperious language of victory, that they suffered themselves to be baptised, though with inward
reluctance, by the missionaries, which the emperor sent among them for that purpose" (p. 170).
Rebellion broke out once more, headed by the two most powerful Saxon chiefs, but they were
won over by Charlemagne, who persuaded them "to make a public and solemn profession of Christianity,
in the year 785, and to promise an adherence to that divine religion for the rest of their
days. To prevent, however, the Saxons from renouncing a religion which they had embraced with
reluctance, several bishops were appointed to reside among them, schools also were erected,
and monasteries founded, that the means of instruction might not be wanting. The same precautions
were employed among the Huns in Pannonia, to maintain in the profession of Christianity that
fierce people whom Charlemagne had converted to the faith, when, exhausted and dejected by
various defeats, they were no longer able to make head against his victorious arms, and chose
rather to be Christians than slaves" (p. 170). The grateful Church canonized Charlemagne, the
brutal soldier who had so enlarged her borders; "not to enter into a particular detail of his
vices, whose number counter-balanced that of his virtues, it is undeniably evident that his
ardent and ill-conducted zeal for the conversion of the Huns, Frieslanders, and Saxons, was
more animated by the suggestions of ambition, than by a principle of true piety; and that his
main view in these religious exploits was to subdue the converted nations under his dominion,
and to tame them to his yoke, which they supported with impatience, and shook off by frequent
revolts. It is, moreover, well known, that this boasted saint made no scruple of seeking the
alliance of the infidel Saracens, that he might be more effectually enabled to crush the Greeks,
notwithstanding their profession of the Christian religion" (p. 171). Thus was Christianity
spread by fire and sword, and where-ever the cross passed it left its track in blood. While
the soldiers thus converted the heathen, "the clergy abandoned themselves to their passions
without moderation or restraint; they were distinguished by their luxury, their gluttony, and
their lust" (p. 173). To these evils was added that of gross deception, for a bad clergy used
bad weapons; false miracles abounded in every direction; "the corrupt discipline that then
prevailed admitted of those fallacious stratagems, which are very improperly called pious frauds;
nor did the heralds of the gospel think it at all unlawful to terrify or to allure to the profession
of Christianity, by fictitious prodigies, those obdurate hearts which they could not subdue
by reason and argument" (p. 171). The wealth of the Church increased year by year. "An opinion
prevailed universally at this time, though its authors are not known, that the punishment which
the righteous judge of the world has reserved for the transgressions of the wicked, was to
be prevented and annulled by liberal donations to God, to the saints, to the churches and clergy.
In consequence of this notion, the great and opulent--who were, generally speaking, the most
remarkable for their flagitious and abominable lives--offered, out of the abundance which they
had received by inheritance or acquired by rapine, rich donations to departed saints, their
ministers upon earth, and the keepers of the temples that were erected in their honour, in
order to avoid the sufferings and penalties annexed by the priests to transgression in this
life, and to escape the misery denounced against the wicked in a future state. This new and
commodious method of making atonement for iniquity was the principal source of those immense
treasures which, from this period, began to flow in upon the clergy, the churches, and monasteries,
and continued to enrich them through succeeding ages down to the present time" (p. 174). Another
source of wealth is to be found in the desire of the kings of the various warring tribes to
attach to themselves the bishop and clergy in their dominions; by bestowing on these lands
and dignities they secured to themselves the aid which the Church officials had it in their
power to render, for not only could bishops bring to the support of their suzerain the physical
succour of armies, but they could also launch against his enemies that terrible bolt of mediaeval
times, excommunication, which, "rendered formidable by ignorance, struck terror into the boldest
and most resolute hearts" (p. 174). In these latter gifts we see the origin of the temporalities
and titles attached to episcopal sees and to cathedral chapters. During this century the power
of the Roman Pontiff swelled to an enormous degree, and his sway extended into civil and political
affairs: so supreme an authority had he become that, in A.D. 751, the Frankish states of the
realm--convoked by Pepin to sanction his design of seizing on the French throne, then occupied
by Childeric III.--directed that an embassy should be sent to the Pope Zachary, to ask whether
it was not right that a weak monarch should be dethroned; and on the answer of the Pope in
the affirmative being received, Childeric was dethroned without opposition, and Pepin was crowned
in his stead.

In the East, the Church was torn with dissensions, while the imperial throne was rocking under
the repeated attacks of the Turks--a tribe descended from the Tartars--who entered Armenia,
struggled with the Saracens for dominion, subdued them partially, and then turned their arms
against the Greek empire. The great controversy of this century is that on the worship of images,
between the Iconoduli or Iconolatrae (image worshippers), and the Iconomachi or Iconoclastae
(image breakers). The Emperor Bardanes, a supporter of the Monothelite heresy, ordered that
a picture representing the sixth general council should be removed from the Church of St. Sophia,
because that council had condemned the Monothelites. Not content with doing this (A.D. 712),
Bardanes sent an order to Rome that all pictures and images of the same nature should be removed
from places of worship. Constantine, the Pope, immediately set up six pictures, representing
the six general councils, in the porch of St. Peter's, and called a council at Rome, which
denounced the Emperor as an apostate. Bardanes was dethroned by a revolution, but his successor,
Leo, soon took up the quarrel. In A.D. 726, he issued an imperial edict commanding the removal
of all images from the churches and forbidding all image worship, save only those representing
the crucifixion of Christ. Pope Gregory I. excommunicated the Emperor, and insurrections broke
out all over the empire in consequence; the Emperor retorted by calling a council at Constantinople,
which deposed the bishop of that city for his leanings towards image worship, and put a supporter
of the Emperor in his place. The contest was carried on by Constantine, who succeeded his father,
Leo, in A.D. 741, and who, in A.D. 754, called a council, at Constantinople--recognised by
the Greek Church as the seventh general council--which condemned the use and worship of images.
Leo IV. (A.D. 775) issued penal laws against image worshippers, but he was poisoned by Irene,
his wife, in A.D. 780, and she entered into an alliance with Pope Adrian, so that the Iconoduli
became triumphant in their turn. While this controversy raged, a second arose as to the procession
of the Holy Ghost. The creed of Constantinople (see ante, p. 434) ran--"I believe in the Holy
Ghost, the Lord and Giver of Life, who proceedeth from the Father;" to this phrase the words,
"and the Son," had been added in the West, originally by some Spanish bishops; the Greeks protested
against an unauthorised addition being inserted into a creed promulgated by a general council,
and received by the universal Church as the symbol of faith. Thus arose the celebrated controversy
on the "Filioque," which was one of the chief causes of the great schism between the Eastern
and Western Churches in the ninth century.

The Arian, Manichæan, Marcionite, and Monothelite heresies spread, during this century, through
the Greek Church, and, where the Arabians ruled, the Nestorians and Monophysites also flourished.
In the Latin Church a phase of the Nestorian heresy made its way, under the name of Adoptianism,
a name given because its adherents regarded Christ, so far as his manhood was concerned, as
the Son of God by adoption only.

CENTURY IX.

Christendom, during this century, as during the preceding one, was threatened and harassed
by the inroads of Mahommedan powers, and the first gleams of returning light began to penetrate
its thick darkness--light proceeding from the Arabians and the Saracens, the restorers of knowledge
and of science. It is not here our duty to trace that marvellous work of the revival of thought--thought
which Christianity had slain, but which, revived by Mahommedanism, was destined to issue in
the new birth of heretic philosophy. While this work was proceeding among the Saracens, the
Arabians, and the Moors, Christendom went on its way, degraded, vicious, and superstitious;
only here and there an effort at learning was made, and some few went to the Arabian schools,
and returned with some tincture of knowledge. John Scotus Erigena, a subtle and acute thinker,
left behind him works which have made some regard him as the founder of the Realist school
of the middle ages, the school which followed Aristotle, in opposition to the Nominalists,
who held with Zeno and the Stoics. Erigena taught that the soul would be re-absorbed into the
divine spirit, from which it had originally emanated; from God all things had come--to Him
would they ultimately return; God alone was eternal, and in the end nothing but God would exist.
Some of Erigena's works naturally fell under the displeasure of the Church, and were duly burned:
he was a philosopher, and therefore dangerous.

While this slight effort at thought was thus frowned upon, vice made its way unchecked and
unrebuked by the authorities. "The impiety and licentiousness of the greater part of the clergy
arose, at this time, to an enormous height, and stand upon record in the unanimous complaints
of the most candid and impartial writers of this century. In the East, tumult, discord, conspiracies,
and treason reigned uncontrolled, and all things were carried by violence and force. These
abuses appeared in many things, but particularly in the election of the Patriarchs of Constantinople....
In the western provinces, the bishops were become voluptuous and effeminate to a very high
degree. They passed their lives amidst the splendour of courts, and the pleasures of a luxurious
indolence, which corrupted their taste, extinguished their zeal, and rendered them incapable
of performing the solemn duties of their function; while the inferior clergy were sunk in licentiousness,
minded nothing but sensual gratifications, and infected with the most heinous vices the flock
whom it was the very business of their ministry to preserve, or to deliver from the contagion
of iniquity. Besides, the ignorance of the sacred order was, in many places, so deplorable
that few of them could either read or write, and still fewer were capable of expressing their
wretched notions with any degree of method or perspicuity" (p. 193). "Many other causes also
contributed to dishonour the Church, by introducing into it a corrupt ministry. A nobleman
who, through want of talents, activity, or courage, was rendered incapable of appearing with
dignity in the cabinet, or with honour in the field, immediately turned his views towards the
Church, aimed at a distinguished place among its chiefs and rulers, and became, in consequence,
a contagious example of stupidity and vice to the inferior clergy. The patrons of churches,
in whom resided the right of election, unwilling to submit their disorderly conduct to the
keen censure of zealous and upright pastors, industriously looked for the most abject, ignorant,
and worthless ecclesiastics, to whom they committed the cure of souls" (p. 193). Of the Roman
pontiffs, Mosheim says: "The greatest part of them are only known by the flagitious actions
that have transmitted their names with infamy to our times" (p. 194). And "the enormous vices
that must have covered so many pontiffs with infamy in the judgment of the wise, formed not
the least obstacle to their ambition in these memorable times, nor hindered them from extending
their influence and augmenting their authority both in church and state" (p. 195). Among the
vast mass of forgeries which gradually built up the supremacy of the Roman see, the famous
Isidorian Decretals deserve a word of notice. They were issued about A.D. 845, and consisted
of "about one hundred pretended decrees of the early Popes, together with certain spurious
writings of other church dignitaries and acts of synods. This forgery produced an immense extension
of the papal power. It displaced the old system of church government, divesting it of the republican
attributes it had possessed, and transforming it into an absolute monarchy. It brought the
bishops into subjection to Rome, and made the pontiff the supreme judge of the clergy of the
whole Christian world. It prepared the way for the great attempt, subsequently made by Hildebrand,
to convert the states of Europe into a theocratic priest kingdom, with the Pope at its head"
(Draper's "Conflict of Religion and Science," p. 271). We note during this century a remarkable
growth of saints. Everyone wanted a saint through whom to approach God, and the supply kept
pace with the demand. "This preposterous multiplication of saints was a new source of abuses
and frauds. It was thought necessary to write the lives of these celestial patrons, in order
to procure for them the veneration and confidence of a deluded multitude; and here lying wonders
were invented, and all the resources of forgery and fable exhausted to celebrate exploits which
had never been performed, and to perpetuate the memory of holy persons who had never existed"
(p. 200). The contest on images still raged furiously, success being now on the one side, now
on the other; various councils were called by either party, until, in A.D. 879, a council at
Constantinople, reckoned by the Greeks as the eighth general council, sanctioned the worship
of images, which thereafter triumphed in the East. In the West, the opposition to image-worship
gradually died away. The Filioque contest also continued hotly and widened the breach between
East and West yet more. The final separation was not long delayed. The ever-increasing jealousy
between Rome and Constantinople had at last reached a height which made even nominal union
impossible, and the smouldering fire burst into sudden flame. In A.D. 858 Photius was made
Patriarch of Constantinople, by the Emperor Michael, in the room of Ignatius, deprived and
banished by that prince. A council, held at Constantinople in A.D. 861, endorsed the appointment
of the emperor; but Ignatius appealed to Rome, and Pope Nicholas I. readily took up his quarrel.
A council was held at Rome, in A.D. 862, in which the pontiff excommunicated Photius and his
adherents. It was answered by one at Constantinople, in A.D. 866, wherein Nicholas was pronounced
unworthy of his office and outside the pale of Christian communion. Yet another council of
Constantinople, A.D. 869, approved the action of Basilius, the new emperor, who recalled Ignatius,
and imprisoned Photius. When Ignatius died, Photius was reinstated (A.D. 878), and he was acknowledged
by the Roman pontiff, John VIII., at another council of Constantinople, A.D. 879, on the understanding
that the jurisdiction over Bulgaria, claimed both by Pope and Patriarch, should be definitely
yielded to Rome. This, however, was not done; and the Pope sent a legate to Constantinople,
recalling his declaration in favour of Photius. The legate, Marinus, was cast into prison;
and when he was later raised to the pontificate, he remembered the outrage, and anew excommunicated
Photius. A.D. 886 saw the fall and imprisonment of Photius, and union might have been maintained
but for the extravagant demands of the Roman pontiff, who required the degradation of all priests
and bishops ordained by Photius. The Greeks indignantly refused, and at last the great schism
took place, which severed from each other entirely the Eastern and the Western Churches.

The ancient heresy of the Paulicians had not yet died out, spite of having suffered much persecution
at Catholic hands, and under the Emperors Michael and Leo, a fierce attack upon these unfortunate
beings took place. They were hunted down and executed without mercy, and at last they turned
upon their persecutors, and revenged themselves by murdering the bishop, magistrates, and judges
in Armenia, after which they fled to the countries under Saracen rule. After a while, they
gradually returned to the Greek empire; but when the Empress Theodora was regent, during her
son's minority, she issued a stern decree against them. "The decree was severe, but the cruelty
with which it was put in execution, by those who were sent into Armenia for that purpose, was
horrible beyond expression; for these ministers of wrath, after confiscating the goods of above
a hundred thousand of that miserable people, put their possessors to death in the most barbarous
manner, and made them expire slowly in a variety of the most exquisite tortures" (p. 212).

In addition to the heresies inherited from the previous centuries, three new ones, important
in their issues, arose to divide yet more the divided indivisible Church. A monk, named Pascasius
Radbert, wrote a treatise (A.D. 831 and 845), in which he maintained that, at the Eucharist,
the substance of the bread and wine became changed, by consecration, into the body and blood
of Christ, and that this body "was the same body that was born of the Virgin, that suffered
upon the cross, and was raised from the dead" (p. 205). Charles the Bald bade Erigena and Ratramn
(or Bertramn) draw up the true doctrine of the Church, and the long controversy began which
is continued even in the present day. The second great dispute arose on the question of predestination
and divine grace. Godeschalcus, an eminent Saxon monk, returning from Rome in A.D. 847, resided
for a space in Verona, where he spoke much on predestination, affirming that God had, from
all eternity, predestined some to heaven and others to hell. He was condemned at a council
held in Mayence, A.D. 848, and in the following year, at another council, he was again condemned,
and was flogged until he burned, with his own hand, the apology for his opinions he had presented
at Mayence. The third great controversy regarded the manner of Christ's birth, and monks furiously
disputed whether or no Christ was born after the fashion of other infants. The details of this
dispute need not here be entered into.

CENTURY X.

"The deplorable state of Christianity in this century, arising partly from that astonishing
ignorance that gave a loose rein both to superstition and immorality, and partly from an unhappy
concurrence of causes of another kind, is unanimously lamented by the various writers who have
transmitted to us the history of these miserable times" (p. 213). Yet "the gospel" spread.
The Normans embraced "a religion of which they were totally ignorant" (p. 214), A.D. 912, because
Charles the Simple of France offered Count Rollo a large territory on condition that he would
marry his daughter and embrace Christianity: Rollo gladly accepted the territory and its encumbrances.
Poland came next into the fold of the Church, for the Duke of Poland, Micislaus, was persuaded
by his wife to profess Christianity, A.D. 965, and Pope John III. promptly sent a bishop and
a train of priests to convert the duke's subjects. "But the exhortations and endeavours of
these devout missionaries, who were unacquainted with the language of the people they came
to instruct [how effective must have been their arguments!] would have been entirely without
effect, had they not been accompanied with the edicts and penal laws, the promises and threats
of Micislaus, which dejected the courage and conquered the obstinacy of the reluctant Poles"
(p. 214). "The Christian religion was established in Russia by means every way similar to those
that had occasioned its propagation in Poland" (p. 215); the Greek wife of the Russian duke
persuaded him to adopt her creed, and he was baptized A.D. 987. Mosheim assumes that the Russian
people followed their princes of their own accord, since "we have, at least, no account of
any compulsion or violence being employed in their conversion" (p. 215); if the Russians adopted
Christianity without compulsion or violence, all we can say is, that their conversion is unique.
The Danes were converted in A.D. 949, Otto the Great having defeated them, and having made
it an imperative condition of peace, that they should profess Christianity. The Norwegians
accepted the religion of Jesus on the same terms. Thus the greater part of Europe became Christian,
and we even hear a cry raised by Pope Sylvester II. for the deliverance of Palestine from the
Mahommedans--for a holy war. Christianity having now become so strong, learning had become
proportionately weak; it had been sinking lower and lower during each succeeding epoch, and
in this tenth century it reached its deepest stage of degradation. "The deplorable ignorance
of this barbarous age, in which the drooping arts were entirely neglected, and the sciences
seemed to be upon the point of expiring for want of encouragement, is unanimously confessed
and lamented by all the writers who have transmitted to us any accounts of this period of time"
(p. 218). In vain a more enlightened emperor in the East strove to revive learning and encourage
study: "many of the most celebrated authors of antiquity were lost, at this time, through the
sloth and negligence of the Greeks" (p. 219). "Nor did the cause of philosophy fare better
than that of literature. Philosophers, indeed, there were; and, among them, some that were
not destitute of genius and abilities; but none who rendered their names immortal by productions
that were worthy of being transmitted to posterity" (p. 219). So low, under the influence of
Christianity, had sunk the literature of Greece--Greece Pagan, which once brought forth Pythagoras,
Socrates, Plato, Euclid, Zenophon, and many another mighty one, whose fame rolls down the ages--that
Greece had become Greece Christian, and the vitality of her motherhood had been drained from
her, and left her without strength to conceive men. In the West things were yet worse--instead
of Rome Pagan, that had spread light and civilization--the Rome of Cicero, of Virgil, of Lucretius--we
have Rome Christian, spreader of darkness and of degradation, the Rome of the Popes and the
monks. The Latins "were, almost without exception, sunk in the most brutish and barbarous ignorance,
so that, according to the unanimous accounts of the most credible writers, nothing could be
more melancholy and deplorable than the darkness that reigned in the western world during this
century.... In the seminaries of learning, such as they were, the seven liberal sciences were
taught in the most unskilful and miserable manner, and that by the monks, who esteemed the
arts and sciences no further than as they were subservient to the interests of religion, or,
to speak more properly, to the views of superstition" (p. 219). But the light from Arabia was
struggling to penetrate Christendom. Gerbert, a native of France, travelled into Spain, and
studied in the Arabian schools of Cordova and Seville, under Arabian doctors; he developed
mathematical ability, and returned into Christendom with some amount of learning: raised to
the papal throne, under the name of Sylvester II., he tried to restore the study of science
and philosophy, and found that his geometrical figures "were regarded by the monks as magical
operations," and he himself "as a magician and a disciple of Satan" (p. 220).

The vice of the clergy was something terrible. "These corruptions were mounted to the most
enormous height in that dismal period of the Church which we have now before us. Both in the
eastern and western provinces, the clergy were, for the most part, composed of a most worthless
set of men, shamefully illiterate and stupid, ignorant, more especially in religious matters,
equally enslaved to sensuality and superstition, and capable of the most abominable and flagitious
deeds. This dismal degeneracy of the sacred order was, according to the most credible accounts,
principally owing to the pretended chiefs and rulers of the universal Church, who indulged
themselves in the commission of the most odious crimes, and abandoned themselves to the lawless
impulse of the most licentious passions without reluctance or remorse--who confounded, in short,
all difference between just and unjust, to satisfy their impious ambition, and whose spiritual
empire was such a diversified scene of iniquity and violence as never was exhibited under any
of those temporal tyrants who have been the scourges of mankind" (p. 221). Such is the verdict
passed on Christian rule by a Christian historian. In the East we see such men as Theophylact;
"this exemplary prelate, who sold every ecclesiastical benefice as soon as it became vacant,
had in his stable above 2000 hunting horses, which he fed with pignuts, pistachios, dates,
dried grapes, figs steeped in the most exquisite wines, to all which he added the richest perfumes.
One Holy Thursday, as he was celebrating high-mass, his groom brought him the joyful news that
one of his favourite mares had foaled; upon which he threw down the Liturgy, left the church,
and ran in raptures to the stable, where, having expressed his joy at that grand event, he
returned to the altar to finish the divine service, which he had left interrupted during his
absence" (p. 221, note). We shall see, in a moment, how the masses of the people were housed
and fed while such insane luxury surrounded horses. In the west, the weary tale of the Roman
pontiffs cannot all be narrated here. Take the picture as drawn by Hallam: "This dreary interval
is filled up, in the annals of the papacy, by a series of revolutions and crimes. Six popes
were deposed, two murdered, one mutilated. Frequently two, or even three, competitors, among
whom it is not always possible by any genuine criticism to distinguish the true shepherd, drove
each other alternately from the city. A few respectable names appear thinly scattered through
this darkness; and sometimes, perhaps, a pope who had acquired estimation by his private virtues
may be distinguished by some encroachment on the rights of princes, or the privileges of national
churches. But, in general, the pontiffs of that age had neither leisure nor capacity to perfect
the great system of temporal supremacy, and looked rather to a vile profit from the sale of
episcopal confirmations, or of exemptions to monasteries. The corruption of the head extended
naturally to all other members of the Church. All writers concur in stigmatizing the dissoluteness
and neglect of decency that prevailed among the clergy. Though several codes of ecclesiastical
discipline had been compiled by particular prelates, yet neither these nor the ancient canons
were much regarded. The bishops, indeed, who were to enforce them, had most occasion to dread
their severity. They were obtruded upon their sees, as the supreme pontiffs were upon that
of Rome, by force or corruption. A child of five years old was made Archbishop of Rheims. The
see of Narbonne was purchased for another at the age of ten" ("Europe during the Middle Ages,"
p. 353, ed. 1869). John X. made pope at the solicitation of his mistress Theodora, the mother-in-law
of the sovereign, and murdered at the instance of Theodora's daughter, Marozia; John XI., illegitimate
son of the same Marozia, and of the celibate pontiff, Sergius III.; Boniface VII. expelled,
banished, returning and murdering the reigning pope: what avails it to chronicle these monsters?
Below the popes, a clergy as vicious as their rulers, squandering money, plundered from the
people in dissoluteness and luxury. And the people, what of them?

As late as A.D. 1430 the houses of the peasantry were "constructed of stones put together without
mortar; the roofs were of turf--a stiffened bull's-hide served for a door. The food consisted
of coarse vegetable products, such as peas, and even the bark of trees. In some places they
were unacquainted with bread. Cabins of reeds plastered with mud, houses of wattled stakes,
chimneyless peat fires, from which there was scarcely an escape for the smoke, dens of physical
and moral pollution swarming with vermin, wisps of straw twisted round the limbs to keep off
the cold, the ague-stricken peasant with no help except shrine-cure," i.e., cure by the touching
bone of saint, or image of virgin (Draper's "Conflict between Religion and Science," p. 265).
Even among the wealthy, the life was coarse and rough; carpets were unknown; drainage never
thought of. The Anglo-Saxon "'nobles, devoted to gluttony and voluptuousness, never visited
the church, but the matins and the mass were read over to them by a hurrying priest in their
bed-chambers, before they rose, themselves not listening. The common people were a prey to
the more powerful; their property was seized, their bodies dragged away to distant countries;
their maidens were either thrown into a brothel or sold for slaves. Drinking, day and night,
was the general pursuit: vices, the companions of inebriety, followed, effeminating the manly
mind.' The baronial castles were dens of robbers. The Saxon chronicler [William of Malmesbury,
from whom the quotation above] records how men and women were caught and dragged into those
strongholds, hung up by their thumbs or feet, fire applied to them, knotted strings twisted
round their heads, and many other torments inflicted to extort ransom" (Ibid, p. 266). When
the barons had nearly finished their evil lives, the church stepped in, claiming her share
of the plunder and the wealth thus amassed, and opening the gates of paradise to the dying
thief. The cities were as wretched as their inhabitants: no paving, no cleaning, no lighting.
In the country the old Roman roads were unmended, unkept; Europe was slipping backwards into
uttermost barbarism. Meanwhile things were very different where the blighting power of Christianity
was not in the ascendant. "Europe at the present day does not offer more taste, more refinement,
more elegance, than might have been seen, at the epoch of which we are speaking, in the capitals
of the Spanish Arabs. Their streets were lighted and solidly paved. The houses were frescoed
and carpeted; they were warmed in winter by furnaces, and cooled in summer with perfumed air
brought by underground pipes from flower-beds. They had baths, and libraries, and dining-halls,
fountains of quicksilver and water. City and country were full of conviviality, and of dancing
to the lute and mandolin. Instead of the drunken and gluttonous wassail orgies of their northern
neighbours, the feasts of the Saracens were marked by sobriety. Wine was prohibited.... In
the tenth century, the Khalif Hakem II. had made beautiful Andalusia the paradise of the world.
Christians, Mussulmans, Jews, mixed together without restraint.... All learned men, no matter
from what country they came, or what their religious views, were welcomed. The khalif had in
his palace a manufactory of books, and copyists, binders, illuminators. He kept book-buyers
in all the great cities of Asia and Africa. His library contained 400,000 volumes, superbly
bound and illuminated" (Ibid, pp. 141, 142). When the Christians in the fifteenth century seized
"beautiful Andalusia," they erected the Inquisition, burned the books, burned the people, banished
the Jews and the Moors, and founded the miserable land known as modern Spain.

There was but little heresy during this melancholy century; people did not think enough even
to think badly. The Paulicians spread through Bulgaria, and established themselves there under
a patriarch of their own. Some Arians still existed. Some Anthropomorphites gave some trouble,
maintaining that God sat on a golden throne, and was served by angels with wings: their "heresy"
is, however, directly supported by the Scriptures. A.D. 999, a man named Lentard began to speak
against the worship of images, and the payment of tithes to priests, and asserted that in the
Old Testament prophecies truth and falsehood are mingled. His disciples seem to have merged
into the Albigenses in the next century.

The year A.D. 1000 deserves a special word of notice. Christians fancied that the world was
to last for but one thousand years after the birth of Christ, and that it would therefore come
to an end in A.D. 1000. "Many charters begin with these words: 'As the world is now drawing
to its close.' An army marching under the emperor Otho I. was so terrified by an eclipse of
the sun, which it conceived to announce this consummation, as to disperse hastily on all sides"
("Europe during the Middle Ages," Hallam, P. 599) "Prodigious numbers of people abandoned all
their civil connections, and their parental relations, and giving over to the churches or monasteries
all their lands, treasures, and worldly effects, repaired with the utmost precipitation to
Palestine, where they imagined that Christ would descend to judge the world. Others devoted
themselves by a solemn and voluntary oath to the service of the churches, convents, and priesthood,
whose slaves, they became in the most rigorous sense of that word, performing daily their heavy
tasks; and all this from a notion that the Supreme Judge would diminish the severity of their
sentence, and look upon them with a more favourable and propitious eye, on account of their
having made themselves the slaves of his ministers. When an eclipse of the sun or moon happened
to be visible, the cities were deserted, and their miserable inhabitants fled for refuge to
hollow caverns, and hid themselves among the craggy rocks, and under the bending summits of
steep mountains. The opulent attempted to bribe the Deity and the saintly tribe, by rich donations
conferred upon the sacerdotal and monastic orders, who were looked upon as the immediate vicegerents
of heaven" (p. 226). Thus the Church still reaped wealth out of the fear of the people she
deluded, and while fields lay unsown, and houses stood unrepaired, and the foundations of famine
were laid, Mother Church gathered lands and money into her capacious lap, and troubled little
about the starving children, provided she herself could wax fat on the good things of the world
which she professed to have renounced.

CENTURY XI.

The Prussians, during this century, were driven into the fold of the Church. A Christian missionary,
Adalbert, bishop of Prague, had been murdered by the "fierce and savage Prussians," and in
order to show the civilising results of the gentle Christian creed, Boleslaus, king of Poland,
entered "into a bloody war with the Prussians, and he obtained, by the force of penal laws
and of a victorious, army, what Adalbert could not effect by exhortation and argument. He dragooned
this savage people into the Christian Church" (p. 230). Some of his followers tried a gentler
method of conversion, and were murdered by the Prussians, who clearly saw no reason why Christians
should do all the killing. We have already seen that Sylvester II. called upon the Christian
princes to commence a "holy war" against "the infidels" who held the holy places of Christianity.
Gregory VII. strove to stir them up in like fashion, and had gathered together an army of upwards
of 50,000 men, whom he proposed to lead in person into Palestine. The Pope, however, quarrelled
with Henry IV., emperor of Germany, and his project fell through. At the close of this century,
the long-talked of effort was made. Peter the Hermit, who had travelled through Palestine,
came into Europe and related in all directions tales of the sufferings of the Christians under
the rule of the "barbarous" Saracens. He appealed to Urban II., the then Pope, and Urban, who
at first discouraged him, seeing that Peter had succeeded in rousing the most warlike nations
of Christian Europe into enthusiasm, called a council at Placentia, A.D. 1095, and appealed
to the Christian princes to take up the cause of the Cross. The council was not successful,
and Urban summoned another at Clermont, and himself addressed the assembly. "It is the will
of God" was the shout that answered him, and the people flew to arms. "Every means was used
to excite an epidemical frenzy, the remission of penance, the dispensation from those practices
of self-denial which superstition imposed or suspended at pleasure, the absolution of all sins,
and the assurance of eternal felicity. None doubted that such as persisted in the war received
immediately the reward of martyrdom. False miracles and fanatical prophecies, which were never
so frequent, wrought up the enthusiasm to a still higher pitch. [Mosheim states, p. 231, that
Peter the Hermit carried about with him a letter from heaven, calling on all true Christians
to deliver their brethren from the infidel yoke.] And these devotional feelings, which are
usually thwarted and balanced by other passions, fell in with every motive that could influence
the men of that time, with curiosity, restlessness, the love of licence, thirst for war, emulation,
ambition. Of the princes who assumed the cross, some, probably from the beginning, speculated
upon forming independent establishments in the East. In later periods, the temporal benefits
of undertaking a crusade undoubtedly blended themselves with less selfish considerations. Men
resorted to Palestine, as in modern times they have done to the colonies, in order to redeem
their time, or repair their fortune. Thus Gui de Lusignan, after flying from France for murder,
was ultimately raised to the throne of Jerusalem. To the more vulgar class were held out inducements
which, though absorbed in the more overruling fanaticism of the first crusade, might be exceedingly
efficacious when it began rather to flag. During the time that a crusader bore the cross, he
was free from suit for his debts, and the interest of them was entirely abolished; he was exempted,
in some instances, at least, from taxes, and placed under the protection of the Church, so
that he could not be impleaded in any civil court, except on criminal charges, or disputes
relating to land" ("Europe during the Middle Ages," Hallam, pp. 29, 30). Thus fanaticism and
earthly pleasures and benefits all pushed men in the same direction, and Europe flung itself
upon Palestine. Men, women, and children, poured eastwards in that first crusade, and this
mixed vanguard of the coming army of warriors was led by Peter the Hermit and Gaultier Sans-Avoir.
This vanguard was "a motley assemblage of monks, prostitutes, artists, labourers, lazy tradesmen,
merchants, boys, girls, slaves, malefactors, and profligate debauchees;" "it was principally
composed of the lowest dregs of the multitude, who were animated solely by the prospect of
spoil and plunder, and hoped to make their fortunes by this holy campaign" (p. 232). "This
first division, in their march through Hungary and Thrace, committed the most flagitious crimes,
which so incensed the inhabitants of the countries through which they passed, particularly
those of Hungary and Turcomania, that they rose up in arms and massacred the greatest part
of them" (Ibid). "Father Maimbourg, notwithstanding his immoderate zeal for the holy war, and
that fabulous turn which enables him to represent it in the most favourable points of view,
acknowledges frankly that the first division of this prodigious army committed the most abominable
enormities in the countries through which they passed, and that there was no kind of insolence,
in justice, impurity, barbarity, and violence, of which they were not guilty. Nothing, perhaps,
in the annals of history can equal the flagitious deeds of this infernal rabble" (Ibid, note).
Few of these unhappy wretches reached the Holy Land. "To engage in the crusade and to perish
in it, were almost synonymous" (Hallam, p. 30), even for those who entered Palestine. The loss
of life was something terrible. "We should be warranted by contemporary writers in stating
the loss of the Christians alone during this period at nearly a million; but at the least computation,
it must have exceeded half that number" (Ibid). The real army, under Godfrey de Bouillon, consisted
of some 80,000 well-appointed horse and foot. But at Nice the crowd of crusaders numbered 700,000,
after the great slaughter in Hungary. Jerusalem was taken, A.D. 1099, and it was there "where
their triumph was consummated, that it was stained with the most atrocious massacre; not limited
to the hour of resistance, but renewed deliberately even after that famous penitential procession
to the holy sepulchre, which might have calmed their ferocious dispositions if, through the
misguided enthusiasm of the enterprise, it had not been rather calculated to excite them" (Ibid,
p. 31). The last crusade occurred A.D. 1270, and between the first in 1096 and the last in
1270, human lives were extinguished in numbers it is impossible to reckon, increasing ever
the awful sum total of the misery lying at the foot of the blood-red cross of Christendom.

A collateral advantage accrued to the clergy through the crusades; "their wealth, continually
accumulated, enabled them to become the regular purchasers of landed estates, especially in
the time of the crusades, when the fiefs of the nobility were constantly in the market for
sale or mortgage" (Ibid, p. 333).

The last vestiges of nominal paganism were erased in this century, and it remained only under
Christian names. Capital punishment was proclaimed against all who worshipped the old deities
under their old titles, and "this dreadful severity contributed much more towards the extirpation
of paganism, than the exhortations and instructions of ignorant missionaries, who were unacquainted
with the true nature of the gospel, and dishonoured its pure and holy doctrines by their licentious
lives and their superstitious practices" (p. 236). Learning began to revive, as men, educated
in the Arabian schools, gradually spread over Europe; thus: "the school of Salernum, in the
kingdom of Naples, was renowned above all others for the study of physic in this century, and
vast numbers crowded thither from all the provinces of Europe to receive instruction in the
art of healing; but the medical precepts which rendered the doctors of Salernum so famous were
all derived from the writings of the Arabians, or from the schools of the Saracens in Spain
and Africa" (p. 237). "About the year 1050, the face of philosophy began to change, and the
science of logic assumed a new aspect. This revolution began in France, where several of the
books of Aristotle had been brought from the schools of the Saracens in Spain, and it was effected
by a set of men highly renowned for their abilities and genius, such as Berenger, Roscellinus,
Hildebert, and after them by Gilbert de la Porre, the famous Abelard and others" (p. 238).
Thus we see that in science, in philosophy, in logic, we alike owe to Arabia the revival of
thought in Christendom. Progress, however, was very slow, and the thought was not yet strong
enough to arouse the fears of the Church, so it spread for a while in peace.

Hallam sums up for us the state of learning, or rather of ignorance, during the eighth, ninth,
tenth and eleventh centuries, and his account may well find its place here. "When Latin had
thus ceased to be a living language, the whole treasury of knowledge was locked up from the
eyes of the people. The few who might have imbibed a taste for literature, if books had been
accessible to them, were reduced to abandon pursuits that could only be cultivated through
a kind of education not easily within their reach. Schools confined to cathedrals and monasteries,
and exclusively designed for the purposes of religion, afforded no encouragement or opportunities
to the laity. The worst effect was that, as the newly-formed languages were hardly made use
of in writing, Latin being still preserved in all legal instruments and public correspondence,
the very use of letters, as well as of books, was forgotten. For many centuries, to sum up
the account of ignorance in a word, it was rare for a layman, of whatever rank, to know how
to sign his name. Their charters, till the use of seals became general, were subscribed with
the mark of the cross. Still more extraordinary it was to find one who had any tincture of
learning. Even admitting every indistinct commendation of a monkish biographer (with whom a
knowledge of church music would pass for literature), we could make out a very short list of
scholars. None certainly were more distinguished as such than Charlemagne and Alfred. But the
former, unless we reject a very plain testimony, was incapable of writing; and Alfred found
difficulty in making a translation from the pastoral instruction of St. Gregory, on account
of his imperfect knowledge of Latin. Whatever mention, therefore, we find of learning and the
learned, during these dark ages, must be understood to relate only to such as were within the
pale of clergy, which indeed was pretty extensive, and comprehended many who did not exercise
the offices of religious ministry. But even the clergy were, for a long period, not very materially
superior, as a body, to the uninstructed laity. Contracts were made verbally, for want of notaries
capable of drawing up charters; and these, when written, were frequently barbarous and ungrammatical
to an incredible degree. For some considerable intervals, scarcely any monument of literature
has been preserved, except a few jejune chronicles, the vilest legends of saints, or verses
equally destitute of spirit and metre. In almost every council the ignorance of the clergy
forms a subject for reproach. It is asserted by one held in 992, that scarcely a single person
was to be found in Rome itself who knew the first element of letters. Not one priest of a thousand
in Spain, about the age of Charlemagne, could address a common letter of salutation to another.
In England, Alfred declares that he could not recollect a single priest south of the Thames
(the most civilised part of England) at the time of his accession who understood the ordinary
prayers, or could translate Latin into his mother-tongue. Nor was this better in the time of
Dunstan, when it is said, none of the clergy knew how to write or translate a Latin letter.
The homilies which they preached were compiled for their use by some bishops, from former works
of the same kind, or the writings of the Christian fathers.... If we would listen to some literary
historians, we should believe that the darkest ages contained many individuals, not only distinguished
among their contemporaries, but positively eminent for abilities and knowledge. A proneness
to extol every monk of whose productions a few letters or a devotional treatise survives, every
bishop of whom it is related that he composed homilies, runs through the laborious work of
the Benedictines of St. Maur, the 'Literary History of France,' and, in a less degree, is observable
even in Tiraboschi, and in most books of this class. Bede, Alcuin, Hincmar, Raban, and a number
of inferior names, become real giants of learning in their uncritical panegyrics. But one might
justly say, that ignorance is the smallest defect of the writers of these dark ages. Several
of these were tolerably acquainted with books; but that wherein they are uniformly deficient
is original argument or expression. Almost every one is a compiler of scraps from the fathers,
or from such semi-classical authors as Boethius, Cassiodorus, or Martinus Capella. Indeed,
I am not aware that there appeared more than two really considerable men in the republic of
letters from the sixth to the middle of the eleventh century--John, surnamed Scotus, or Erigena,
a native of Ireland, and Gerbert, who became pope by the name of Sylvester II.: the first endowed
with a bold and acute metaphysical genius, the second excellent, for the time when he lived,
in mathematical science and useful mechanical invention" ("Europe during the Middle Ages,"
Hallam, pp. 595-598).

If we look at the ministers of the Church, the old story of tyranny and vice is told over again
during this century. Among its popes is numbered Benedict IX., deposed for his profligacy,
restored and again deposed, restored by force of arms, and selling the pontificate, so that
three popes at once claimed the tiara, and were all three declared unworthy, and a fourth placed
on the throne. Fresh disturbances followed, and new usurpers, until in A.D. 1059 the election
of the pope was taken out of the hands of the people and transferred to the college of cardinals,
a change which was much struggled against, but which was ultimately adopted. In A.D. 1073 Hildebrand
was elected pope under the title of Gregory VII.; this man, perhaps, more than any other, augmented
the temporal power of the papacy. It was he who moulded the church into the form of an absolute
monarchy, and fought against all local privileges and national freedom of the churches in each
land; it was he who claimed rule over all kings and princes, and treated them as vassals of
the Roman see; it was he who, in 1074, calling a council at Rome, caused it to decree the celibacy
of the clergy, so that priests having no home, and no family ties, might feel their only home
in the Church, and their only tie to Rome; it was he who struggled against Germany, and who
kept the excommunicated emperor standing barefoot and almost naked in the snow for three days,
in the courtyard of his castle. A bold bad man was this Hildebrand, but a man of genius and
a master-mind, who conceived the mighty idea of a universal Church, wherein all princes should
be vassals, and the head of the Church absolute monarch of the world.

It was at the annual council of Rome, A.D. 1076, that Pope Gregory VII. recited and proclaimed
"all the ancient maxims, all the doubtful traditions, all the excessive pretensions, by which
he could support his supremacy. It was, in a manner, the abridged code of his domination--the
laws of servitude that he proposed to the world at large. Here are the terms of this charter
of theocracy: 'The Roman Church is founded by God alone. The Roman pontiff alone can legitimately
take the title of universal ... There shall be no intercourse whatever held with persons excommunicated
by the Pope, and none may dwell in the same house with them.... He alone may wear the imperial
insignia. All the princes of the earth shall kiss the feet of the Pope, but of none other....
He has the right of deposing emperors.... The sentence of the Pope can be revoked by none,
and he alone can revoke the sentences passed by others. He can be judged by none. None may
dare to pronounce sentence on one who appeals to the See Apostolic. To it shall be referred
all major causes by the whole Church. The Church of Rome never has erred, and never can err,
as Scripture warrants. A Roman pontiff, canonically ordained, at once becomes, by the merit
of Saint Peter, indubitably holy. By his order and with his permission it is lawful for subjects
to accuse princes.... The Pope can loose subjects from the oath of fealty.' Such are the fundamental
articles promulgated by Gregory VII. in the Council of Rome, which the official historian of
the Church reproduced in the commencement of the seventeenth century as being authentic and
legitimate, and Rome has never disavowed it. Borrowed in part from the false Decretals, resting,
most of them, on the fabulous donation of Constantine, and on the successive impostures and
usurpations of the first barbarous ages, they received from the hand of Gregory VII. a new
character of force and unity. That pontiff stamped them with the sanction of his own genius.
Such authority had never before been created: it made every other power useless and subaltern"
("Life of Gregory VII.," by Villemain, trans. by Brockley, vol. ii., pp. 53-55). Thus the struggle
became inevitable between the temporal and the spiritual powers. "In every country there was
a dual government:--1. That of a local kind, represented by a temporal sovereign. 2. That of
a foreign kind, acknowledging the authority of the Pope. This Roman influence was, in the nature
of things, superior to the local; it expressed the sovereign will of one man over all the nations
of the continent conjointly, and gathered overwhelming power from its compactness and unity.
The local influence was necessarily of a feeble nature, since it was commonly weakened by the
rivalries of conterminous states and the dissensions dexterously provoked by its competitor.
On not a single occasion could the various European states form a coalition against their common
antagonist. Whenever a question arose, they were skilfully taken in detail, and commonly mastered.
The ostensible object of papal intrusion was to secure for the different peoples, moral well-being;
the real object was to obtain large revenues and give support to large bodies of ecclesiastics.
The revenues thus abstracted were not unfrequently many times greater than those passing into
the treasury of the local power. Thus, on the occasion of Innocent IV. demanding provision
to be made for three hundred additional Italian clergy by the Church of England, and that one
of his nephews, a mere boy, should have a stall in Lincoln Cathedral, it was found that the
sum already annually abstracted by foreign ecclesiastics from England was thrice that which
went into the coffers of the king. While thus the higher clergy secured every political appointment
worth having, and abbots vied with counts in the herds of slaves they possessed--some, it is
said, owned not fewer than twenty thousand--begging friars pervaded society in all directions,
picking up a share of what still remained to the poor. There was a vast body of non-producers,
living in idleness and owning a foreign allegiance, who were subsisting on the fruits of the
toil of the labourers" ("Conflict between Religion and Science," Draper, pp. 266, 267).

The struggle between the Greek and Latin Churches, hushed for awhile, broke out again fiercely
A.D. 1053, and in 1054 Rome excommunicated Constantinople, and Constantinople excommunicated
Rome. The disputes as to transubstantiation continued, and shook the Roman Church with their
violence. Outside orthodoxy, some of the old heresies lingered on. The Paulicians wandered
throughout Europe, and became known in Italy as the Paterini and the Cathari, in France as
the Albigenses, Bulgarians, or Publicans. The Council of Orleans condemned them to be burned
alive, and many perished.

CENTURY XII.

The wars which spread Christianity were not yet entirely over, but we only hear of them now
on the outskirts, so to speak, of Europe, except where some tribes apostatized now and then,
and were brought back to the true faith by the sword. The struggles between the popes and the
more stiff-necked princes as to their relative rights and privileges continued, and we sometimes
see the curious spectacle of a pontiff on the side of the people, or rather of the barons,
against the king: whenever this is so, we find that the king is struggling against Roman supremacy,
and that the pope uses the power of the nation to subdue the rebellious monarch. We do not
find Rome interfering to save the people from oppression when the oppressor is a faithful and
obedient son of Holy Church.

Fresh heresies spread during this century, and we everywhere met with one corrective--death.
Most of them appear to have grown out of the old Manichæan heresy, and taught much of the old
asceticism. The Cathari were hunted down and put to death throughout Italy. Arnold of Brescia,
who loudly protested against the possessions of the Church, and maintained that church revenues
should be handed over to the State, proved himself so extremely distasteful to the clergy that
they arrested him, crucified him and burned his dead body (A.D. 1155). Peter de Bruys, who
objected to infant baptism, and may be called the ancestor of the Baptists, was burnt A.D.
1130. Many other reformers shared the same fate, and one large sect must here be noted. Peter
Waldus, its founder, was a merchant of Lyons, who (A.D. 1160) employed a priest to translate
the Gospels for him, together with other portions of the Bible. Studying these, he resolved
to abandon his business and distribute his wealth among the poor, and, in A.D. 1180, he became
a public preacher, and formed an association to teach the doctrines of the Gospel, as he conceived
them, against the doctrines of the Church. The sect first assumed only the simple name of "the
poor men of Lyons," but soon became known as the Waldenses, one of the most powerful and most
widely spread sects of the Middle Ages. They were, in fact, the precursors of the Reformation,
and are notable as heretics protesting against the authorty of Rome because that authority
did not commend itself to their reason; thus they asserted the right of private judgment, and
for that assertion they deserve a niche in the great temple of heretic thought.

CENTURY XIII.

In the far west of Europe paganism still struggled against Christianity, and from A.D. 1230
to 1280 a long, fierce war was waged against the Prussians, to confirm them in the Christian
faith; the Teutonic knights of St. Mary succeeded finally in their apostolic efforts, and at
last "established Christianity and fixed their own dominion in Prussia" (p. 309), whence they
made forays into the neighbouring countries, and "pillaged, burned, massacred, and ruined all
before them." In Spain, Christianity had a yet sadder triumph, for there the civilized Moors
were falling under the brutal Christians, and the "garden of the world" was being invaded by
the hordes of the Roman Church. The end, however, had not yet come. In France, we see the erection
of THE INQUISITION, the most hateful and fiendish tribunal ever set up by religion. The heretical
sects were spreading rapidly in southern provinces of France, and Innocent III., about the
commencement of this century, sent legates extraordinary into the southern provinces of France
to do what the bishops had left undone, and to extirpate heresy, in all its various forms and
modifications, without being at all scrupulous in using such methods as might be necessary
to effect this salutary purpose. The persons charged with this ghostly commission were Rainier,
a Cistercian monk, Pierre de Castelnau, archdeacon of Maguelonne, who became also afterwards
a Cistercian friar. These eminent missionaries were followed by several others, among whom
was the famous Spaniard, Dominic, founder of the order of preachers, who, returning from Rome
in the year 1206, fell in with these delegates, embarked in their cause, and laboured both
by his exhortations and actions in the extirpation of heresy. These spiritual champions, who
engaged in this expedition upon the sole authority of the pope, without either asking the advice,
or demanding the succours of the bishops, and who inflicted capital punishment upon such of
the heretics as they could not convert by reason and argument, were distinguished in common
discourse by the title of inquisitors, and from them the formidable and odious tribunal called
the Inquisition derived its origin (pp. 343, 344). In A.D. 1229, a council of Toulouse "erected
in every city a council of inquisitors consisting of one priest and two laymen" (Ibid). In
A.D. 1233, Gregory IX. superseded this tribunal by appointing the Dominican monks as inquisitors,
and the pope's legate in France thereupon went from city to city, wherever these monks had
a monastery, and there appointed some of their number "inquisitors of heretical pravity." The
princes of Europe were then persuaded to lend the aid of the State to the work of blood, and
to commit to the flames those who were handed over as heretics to the civil power by the inquisitors.
The plan of working was most methodical.

The rules of torture were carefully drawn out: the prisoner was stripped naked, the hair cut
off, and the body then laid on the rack and bound down; the right, then the left, foot tightly
bound and strained by cords; the right and left arm stretched; the fleshy part of the arm compressed
with fine cords; all the cords tightened together by one turn; a second and third turn of the
same kind: beyond this, with the rack, women were not to be tortured; with men a fourth turn
was employed. These directions were written in a Manual, used by the Grand Inquisitor of Seville
as late as A.D. 1820. An analysis is given by Dr. Rule, in his "History of the Inquisition,"
Appendix to vol. i., pp. 339-359, ed. 1874. Then we hear, elsewhere, of torture by roasting
the feet, by pulleys, by red-hot pincers--in short, by every abominable instrument of cruelty
which men, inspired by religion, could conceive. Let the student take Llorente and Dr. Rule
alone, and he will learn enough of the Inquisition horrors to make him shudder at the sight
of a cross--at the name of Christianity.

Llorente gives the most revolting details of the torture of Jean de Salas, at Valladolid, A.D.
1527, and this one case may serve as a specimen of Inquisition work during these bloodstained
centuries. Stripped to his shirt, he was placed on the chevalet (a narrow frame, wherein the
body was laid, with no support save a pole across the middle), and his feet were raised higher
than his head; tightly twisted cords cut through his flesh, and were twisted yet tighter and
tighter as the torture proceeded; fine linen, thrust into his mouth and throat, added to the
unnatural position, made breathing well nigh impossible, and on the linen water slowly fell,
drop by drop, from a suspended vessel over his head, till every struggling breath stained the
cloth with blood (see "Histoire critique de l'Inquisition d'Espagne," t. II., pp. 20-23, ed.
1818). This Spanish Inquisition, during its existence, punished heretics as follows:--

Burnt alive .......................  31,912

Burnt in effigy....................  17,659

Heavily punished................... 291,450
                                    -------
                              Total 341,021

(Ibid, t. IV. p. 271). Add to this list the ruined families, some of whose members fell victims
to the Inquisition, and then--remembering that Spain was but one of the countries which it
desolated--let the student judge of the huge total of human agony caused by this awful institution.
Nor must it be forgotten that its dungeons did not gape only for those who opposed the pretensions
of Rome; men of science, philosophers, thinkers, all these were its foes; Llorente gives a
list of no less than 119 learned and eminent scientific men who, in Spain alone, fell under
the scourge of the Inquisition (see t. II. pp. 417-483).

One special crime of the Church in this age must not be forgotten: her treatment of Roger Bacon.
Roger Bacon was a Franciscan monk, who not only studied Greek, Hebrew, and Oriental languages,
but who devoted himself to natural science, and made many discoveries in astronomy, chemistry,
optics, and mathematics. He is said to have discovered gunpowder, and he proposed a reform
of the calendar similar to that introduced by Gregory XIII., 300 years later. His reward was
to be hooted at as a magician, and to be confined in a dungeon for many years.

The heretics spread and increased in this century, spite of the terrible weapon brought to
bear against them. The "Brethren and Sisters of the Free Spirit," known also as Beghards, Beguttes,
Bicorni, Beghins, and Turlupins, were the chief additional body. They believed that all things
had emanated from God, and that to Him they would return; and to this Eastern philosophy they
added practical fanaticism, rushing wildly about, shouting, yelling, begging. The Waldenses
and Albigenses multiplied, and diversity of opinion spread in every direction.

CENTURY XIV.

This fourteenth century is one of the epochs that sorely test the ingenuity of believers in
papal infallibility; for the cardinals, having elected one pope in A.D. 1378, rapidly took
a dislike to him, and elected a second. The first choice, Urban VI., remained at Rome; the
second, Clement VII., betook himself to Avignon. They duly excommunicated each other, and the
Latin Church was rent in twain. "The distress and calamity of these times is beyond all power
of description; for not to insist upon the perpetual contentions and wars between the factions
of the several popes, by which multitudes lost their fortunes and lives, all sense of religion
was extinguished in most places, and profligacy arose to a most scandalous excess. The clergy,
while they vehemently contended which of the reigning popes was the true successor of Christ,
were so excessively corrupt as to be no longer studious to keep up even an appearance of religion
or decency" ("Europe During the Middle Ages," Hallam, p. 359).

Meanwhile, the struggle between Rome and the heretics went on with ever-increasing fury. In
England, Dr. John Wickcliff, rector of Lutterworth, became famous by his attack on the mendicant
orders in A.D. 1360, and from that time he raised his voice louder and louder, till he spoke
against the pope himself. He translated the Bible into English, attacked many of the prevailing
superstitions, and although condemned as holding heretical opinions, he yet died in peace,
A.D. 1387. Rome revenged itself by digging up his bones and burning them, about thirteen years
later. Rebellion spread even among the monks of the Church, and a vast number of some nonconformist
Franciscan monks, termed Spirituals, were burned for their refusal to obey the pope on matters
of discipline. The intense hatred between the Franciscan and Dominican orders made the latter
the willing instrument of the papacy; and, in their character as inquisitors, they hunted down
their unfortunate rivals as heretics. The Flagellants, a sect who wandered about flogging themselves
to the glory of God, fell also under the merciless hands of the inquisitors, as did also the
Knights Templars in France. A new body, known as the Dancers, started up in A.D. 1373, and
spread through Flanders; but the priests prayed them away by exorcising the dancing devils
that, they said, inhabited the members of this curious sect. Among the sufferers of this century
one name must not be forgotten: it is that of Ceccus Asculanus. This man was an Aristotelian
philosopher, an astrologer, a mathematician, and a physician. "This unhappy man, having performed
some experiments in mechanics that seemed miraculous to the vulgar, and having also offended
many, and among the rest his master [the Duke of Calabria], by giving out some predictions
which were said to have been fulfilled, was universally supposed to deal with infernal spirits,
and burned for it by the inquisitors, at Florence, in the year 1337" (p. 355). There seems
no green spot on which to rest the eye in this weary stretch of blood and fire.

CENTURY XV.

In this fifteenth century the knell of the Church rang out; it is memorable evermore in history
for the discovery of the New World, and the consequent practical demonstration of the falsehood
of the whole theory of the patristic and ecclesiastical theology. In the flood only "Noah and
his three sons, with their wives, were saved in an ark. Of these sons, Sham remained in Asia
and repeopled it. Ham peopled Africa; Japhet, Europe. As the fathers were not acquainted with
the existence of America, they did not provide an ancestor for its people" ("Conflict between
Religion and Science," Dr. Draper, p. 63). Lactantius, indeed, inveighed against the folly
of those who believed in the existence of the antipodes, and Augustine maintained that it was
impossible there should be people living on the other side of the earth. Besides, "in the day
of judgment, men on the other side of a globe could not see the Lord descending through the
air" (Ibid, p. 64). Clearly there was no other side, theologically; only Columbus sailed there.
Another fatal blow was struck at the Church by the invention of the printing press, about A.D.
1440, an invention which made knowledge possible for the many, and by diffusion of knowledge
made heresy likewise certain. It is not for me, however, to trace here the progress of heretic
thought; that brighter task is for another pen; mine only to turn over the bloodstained and
black pages of the Church. One name stands out in the list of the pontiffs of this century,
which is almost unparalleled in its infamy; it is that of Roderic Borgia, Pope Alexander VI.
Foully vicious, cruel, and bloodthirsty, he is startlingly bad, even for a pope. Among his
children are found the names of Cæsar and Lucretia Borgia, names whose very mention recalls
a list of horrible crimes. Alexander died A.D. 1503, from swallowing, by mistake, a poison
which he and his son Cæsar had prepared for others. Turning to the heretics, we see great lives
cut short by the terrible blows of the inquisition:--Savanarola, the brave Italian preacher,
the reformer monk, tortured and burned A.D. 1498; John Huss, the enemy of the papacy, burned
A.D. 1415, in direct violation of the safe conduct granted him; Jerome, of Prague, the friend
and companion of Huss, burned A.D. 1416. Myriads of their unhappy followers shared their fate
in every European land. But to Spain belongs the terrible pre-eminence of cruelty in this last
century before the Reformation. In the year 1478 a bull of Pope Sixtus IV. established the
Inquisition in Spain. "In the first year of the operation of the Inquisition, 1481, two thousand
victims were burnt in Andalusia; besides these, many thousands were dug up from their graves
and burnt; seventeen thousand were fined or imprisoned for life. Whoever of the persecuted
race could flee, escaped for his life. Torquemada, now appointed Inquisitor-General for Castile
and Leon, illustrated his office by his ferocity. Anonymous accusations were received, the
accused was not confronted by witnesses, torture was relied upon for conviction; it was inflicted
in vaults where no one could hear the cries of the tormented. As, in pretended mercy, it was
forbidden to inflict torture a second time, with horrible duplicity it was affirmed that the
torment had not been completed at first, but had only been suspended out of charity until the
following day! The families of the convicted were plunged into irretrievable ruin.... This
frantic priest destroyed Hebrew Bibles wherever he could find them, and burnt six thousand
volumes of Oriental literature at Salamanca, under an imputation that they inculcated Judaism"
(Draper's "Conflict of Science and Religion," p. 146). Torquemada was, indeed, a worthy successor
of Moses. During his eighteen years of power, his list of victims is as follows:--

Burnt at the stake alive................... 10,220
Burnt in effigy, the persons having died
  in prison or fled the country............  6,860
Punished with infamy, confiscation, perpetual
  imprisonment, or loss of civil
  rights .................................. 97,321
                                           -------
Total .....................................114,401

--("History of the Inquisition," by Dr. W.H. Rule, vol. i., p. 150. Full details of numbers
are given in the "Histoire critique de l'Inquisition d'Espagne," Llorente, t. I., pp. 272-281).

Cardinal Ximenes was not quite so successful as Torquemada, but still his roll is long:

Burnt at the stake alive ................... 3,564
Burnt in effigy ............................ 1,232
Punished heavily .......................... 48,059
                                            ------
--(Ibid, p. 186). Total ................... 52,855

In A.D. 1481, in the bishoprics of Seville and Cadiz, "two thousand Judaizers were burnt in
person, and very many in effigy, of whom the number is not known, besides seventeen thousand
subject to cruel penance" (Ibid, p. 133). In A.D. 1485, no less than 950 persons were burned
at Villa Real, now Ciudad Real.

Spite of all this awful suffering, heretics and Jews remained antagonistic to the church, and
in March, A.D. 1492, the edict of the expulsion of the Jews was signed. "All unbaptized Jews,
of whatever age, sex, or condition, were ordered to leave the realm by the end of the following
July. If they revisited it, they should suffer death. They might sell their effects, and take
the proceeds in merchandise or bills of exchange, but not in gold or silver. Exiled thus, suddenly
from the land of their birth, the land of their ancestors for hundreds of years, they could
not in the glutted market that arose sell what they possessed. Nobody would purchase what could
be got for nothing after July. The Spanish clergy occupied themselves by preaching in the public
squares sermons filled with denunciations against their victims, who, when the time for expatriation
came, swarmed in the roads, and filled the air with their cries of despair. Even the Spanish
onlookers wept at the scene of agony. Torquemada, however, enforced the ordinance that no one
should afford them any help.... Thousands, especially mothers with nursing children, infants,
and old people, died by the way--many of them in the agonies of thirst" (Ibid, p. 147). Thus
was a peaceable, industrious, thoughtful population, driven out of Spain by the Church. Nor
did her hand stay even here. Ferdinand, alas! had completed the conquest of the Moors; true,
Granada had only yielded under pledge of liberty of worship, but of what value is the pledge
of the Christian to the heretic? The Inquisition harried the land, until, in February 1502,
word went out that all unbaptized Moors must leave Spain by the end of April. "They might sell
their property, but not take away any gold or silver; they were forbidden to emigrate to the
Mahommedan dominions; the penalty of disobedience was death. Their condition was thus worse
than that of the Jews, who had been permitted to go where they chose" (Ibid, p. 148). And so
the Moors were driven out, and Spain was left to Christianity, to sink down to what she is
to-day. 3,000,000 persons are said to have been expelled as Jews, Moors and Moriscoes. The
Moors departed,--they who had made the name of Spain glorious, and had spread science and thought
through Europe from that focus of light,--they who had welcomed to their cities all who thought,
no matter what their creed, and had covered with an equal protection Mahommedan, Christian,
and Jew.

Nor let the Protestant Christian imagine that these deeds of blood are Roman, not Christian.
The same crimes attach to every Church, and Rome's black list is only longer because her power
is greater. Let us glance at Protestant communions. In Hungary, Giska, the Hussite, massacred
and bruised the Beghards. In Germany, Luther cried, "Why, if men hang the thief upon the gallows,
or if they put the rogue to death, why should not we, with all our strength, attack these popes
and cardinals, these dregs of the Roman Sodom? Why not wash our hands in their blood?" ("The
Spanish Inquisition," Le Maistre, p. 67, ed. 1838). Sandys, Bishop of London, wrote in defence
of persecution. Archbishop Usher, in an address signed by eleven other bishops, said: "Any
toleration to the papists is a grievous sin." Knox said, "The people are bound in conscience
to put to death the queen, along with all her priests." The English Parliament said, "Persecution
was necessary to advance the glory of God." The Scotch Parliament decreed death against Catholics
as idolaters, saying "it was a religious obligation to execute them" (Ibid, pp. 67, 68). Cranmer,
A.D. 1550, condemned six anabaptists to death, one of whom, a woman, was burned alive, and
in the following year another was committed to the flames; this primate held a commission with
"some others, to examine and search after all anabaptists, heretics, or contemners of the book
of Common Prayer" ("Students' History of England," D. Hume, p. 291, ed. 1868).

In Switzerland, Calvin burned Servetus. In America, the Puritans carried on the same hateful
tradition, and whipped the harmless Quakers from town to town. Wherever the cross has gone,
whether held by Roman Catholic, by Lutheran, by Calvinist, by Episcopalian, by Presbyterian,
by Protestant dissenter, it has been dipped in human blood, and has broken human hearts. Its
effect on Europe was destructive, barbarising, deadly, until the dawning light of science scattered
the thick black clouds which issued from the cross. One indisputable fact, pregnant with instruction,
is the extremely low rate of increase of the population of Europe during the centuries when
Christianity was supreme. "What, then, does this stationary condition of the population mean?
It means, food obtained with hardship, insufficient clothing, personal uncleanness, cabins
that could not keep out the weather, the destructive effects of cold and heat, miasm, want
of sanitary provisions, absence of physicians, uselessness of shrine cure, the deceptiveness
of miracles, in which society was putting its trust; or, to sum up a long catalogue of sorrows,
wants and sufferings in one term--it means a high death-rate. But, more, it means deficient
births. And what does that point out? Marriage postponed, licentious life, private wickedness,
demoralized society" (Draper's "Conflict of Religion and Science," p. 263). "The surface of
the Continent was for the most part covered with pathless forests; here and there it was dotted
with monasteries and towns. In the lowlands and along the river courses were fens, sometimes
hundreds of miles in extent, exhaling their pestiferous miasms, and spreading agues far and
wide." In towns there was "no attempt made at drainage, but the putrefying garbage and rubbish
were simply thrown out of the door. Men, women, and children slept in the same apartment; not
unfrequently domestic animals were their companions; in such a confusion of the family it was
impossible that modesty and morality could be maintained. The bed was usually a bag of straw;
a wooden log served as a pillow. Personal cleanliness was utterly unknown; great officers of
state, even dignitaries so high as the Archbishop of Canterbury, swarmed with vermin; such,
it is related, was the condition of Thomas à Becket, the antagonist of an English king. To
conceal personal impurity, perfumes were necessarily and profusely used. The citizen clothed
himself in leather, a garment which, with its ever-accumulating impurity, might last for many
years. He was considered to be in circumstances of ease, if he could procure fresh meat once
a week for his dinner. The streets had no sewers; they were without pavement or lamps. After
night-fall, the chamber-shutters were thrown open, and slops unceremoniously emptied down,
to the discomforture of the wayfarer tracking his path through the narrow streets, with his
dismal lantern in his hand" (Ibid, p. 265). Little wonder indeed, that plagues swept through
the cities, destroying their inhabitants wholesale. The Church could only pray against them,
or offer shrines where votive offerings might win deliverance; "not without a bitter resistance
on the part of the clergy, men began to think that pestilences are not punishments inflicted
by God on society for its religious shortcomings, but the physical consequences of filth and
wretchedness; that the proper mode of avoiding them is not by praying to the saints, but by
ensuring personal and municipal cleanliness. In the twelfth century it was found necessary
to pave the streets of Paris, the stench in them was so dreadful. At once dysenteries and spotted
fever diminished; a sanitary condition, approaching that of the Moorish cities of Spain, which
had been paved for centuries, was attained" (Ibid, p. 314). The death-rate was still further
diminished by the importation of the physician's skill from the Arabs and the Moors; the Christians
had depended on the shrine of the saint, and the bone of the martyr, and the priest was the
doctor of body as well as of soul. "On all the roads pilgrims were wending their way to the
shrines of saints, renowned for the cures they had wrought. It had always been the policy of
the Church to discourage the physician and his art; he interfered too much with the gifts and
profits of the shrines.... For patients too sick to move or be moved, there were no remedies
except those of a ghostly kind--the Paternoster and the Ave" (Ibid, p. 269). Thus Christianity
set itself against all popular advancement, against all civil and social progress, against
all improvement in the condition of the masses. It viewed every change with distrust, it met
every innovation with opposition. While it reigned supreme, Europe lay in chains, and even
into the new world it carried the fetters of the old. Only as Christianity has grown feebler
has civilization strengthened, and progress has been made more and more rapidly as a failing
creed has lost the power to oppose. And now, day by day, that progress becomes swifter; now,
day by day, the opposition becomes fainter, and soon, passing over the ruins of a shattered
religion, Free Thought shall plant the white banner of Liberty in the midst of the temple of
Humanity; that temple which, long desecrated by priests and overshadowed by gods, shall then
be consecrated for evermore to the service of its rightful owner, and shall be filled with
the glory of man, the only god, and shall have its air melodious with the voice of the prayer
which is work.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX TO SECTION IV. OF PART II.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX OF BOOKS USED.

Draper, Conflict of Religion and Science...425, 433, 437, 449, 455,
  456, 464, 465, 471, 472, 475, 476
Eusebius, Ecclesiastical History...424
Gibbon, Decline and Fall...425, 429, 432, 433, 435
Hallam, Europe during the Middle Ages...454, 457, 458, 459, 460, 461,
  462, 463, 470, 471
Hume, Student's History of England...474
Le Maistre, Spanish Inquisition...474
Llorente, Histoire critique de l'Inquisition d'Espagne...468, 469, 472, 473
Mosheim, Ecclesiastical History...Used throughout
Rule, History of the Inquisition...468, 472
Villemain, Life of Gregory VII...464
       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX OF SUBJECTS.

Advent of Christ expected...456, 457
Alexandrine Library, destruction of...432
Arius...433, 434
Boniface, Apostle of Germany...442
Century 2nd and 3rd...423, 429
Century 4th...429, 435
Century 5th...435, 439
Century 6th...439, 441
Century 7th...441, 442
Century 8th...442, 447
Century 9th...447, 451
Century 10th...451, 457
Century 11th...457, 465
Century 12th...466, 467
Century 13th...467, 469
Century 14th...469, 470
Century 15th...471, 474
Charlemagne...442, 444
Christianity, general effect of...474, 476
Church, wealth of...425, 440, 441, 444, 457, 460
Church, doctrine of...426, 450
Church, refuge for evil doers...442
Clergy, frauds of...431, 444, 448, 449
Clergy, vice of...426, 431, 435, 437, 441, 447, 448, 451, 453, 454, 469
Constantine...424, 425
Conversions...429, 430, 435, 439, 443, 451, 457, 467
Crusades...452, 458
Eastern and Western Churches, separation of...449, 450
Endowment of Church, first...429
Filioque...446, 449
Heresies...426-428, 433-435, 438, 440, 442, 446, 450, 456,
  465, 466, 470, 471, 472, 473
Heretic, first burnt alive...431
    "    number burned in Spain...469, 472
Hildebrand...463, 464
Hypatia, murder of...437
Iconoclastic controversy...445, 446
Ignorance of bishops...441
Inquisition...467-469, 472-474
Isidorian decretals...448
Jews, expulsion of, from Spain...473, 474
Learning, lack of...437, 439, 451, 452, 453, 461, 462, 463
     "    revival of...460, 461
Moors, learning of...447, 453, 456
  "    expulsion of, from Spain...473, 474
Patristic geography...471
People, misery of...455, 475, 476
Protestant persecution...474, 475
Rome, supremacy of...436, 445, 448, 464, 465
  "   badness of Popes of...454, 463, 464, 469, 471
Stylites...437
Torquemada...472, 473

