Then he had grown desperate. He had apparently gone mad. He had started to use his own teeth.
He had set his jaw on the yeggman's hand as it groped for his throat. He had caught the index
finger of the other blackened hand and levered it savagely backward, backward until the bone
broke and it hung limp on the tortured tendon. He had sent the relaxed head skidding against
the tunnel wall, once, twice, three times, until the sweat-stained arms fell away and left
him free.

He had sat there for many minutes, stupidly staring at the unconscious man. Then he had found
the revolver at his feet, and, being too weak to get up he had still sat there, contentedly
firing a volley of bullets against the steel vault wall until the bank officials were alarmed
and an armed guard was sent scurrying about to investigate. And with the timely arrival of
Tiernan and that armed guard came an end to the most audacious and staggering criminal coup
of the century!

It was all very beautiful, the very finest of fine writing. Trotter poured his ardent and exultant
young soul into it. And when his last page had been written and sent away, he sat back in the
wide-armed, morocco-upholstered bank-room chair, white with weariness, the fires of creation
burnt out to the last ember.

But one thing sustained and consoled him. He knew, as he whisked down to the Advance office
in the Vice-President's French touring car, that his work was done. He also knew that it was
well done.

It did not even startle him when Pyott himself held out a cold-fingered hand.

"Good business!" was his chief's sardonic commendation.

"Then I've made good?" asked the weary youth, without enthusiasm.

"You've made your TEN-STRIKE!" was the answer. "You're on the city staff at twenty dollars a week."

"When do I have to go over my proofs?" asked the tired-eyed and innocent youth.

"What proofs?"

"My story proofs!"

Pyott forced his eyes to meet those of the pale-faced boy looking up at him. The managing editor
did so without an outward flinch. He was more or less used to such things.

"You've made good, my boy!" He casually turned away before he spoke the next sentence. "BUT
WE'VE HAD TO KILL THAT STORY OF YOURS!"

Trotter did not move. He did not even gulp. He merely closed his tired eyes and at the same
time let his lower lip fall a trifle away from the upper, as his breath came brokenly between them.

Then he sat down. For they had done more than kill his story. They had killed the spirit of
Youth in him. There would be other battles, he knew, and perhaps other victories--but never
again that fine, careless rapture of Youth! For they had killed his firstborn!

***************************************************************** Vol. XXIII  December 1910  No. 6

AN OPEN MIND: WILLIAM JAMES  {p 800-801} 

By  WALTER LIPPMANN

Within a week of the death of Professor William James of Harvard University, the newspapers
had it that Mr. M. S. Ayer of Boston had received a message from his spirit. This news item
provoked the ridicule of the people who don't believe in ghosts, but the joke was on Mr. Ayer
of Boston. When, however, it was reported that Professor James himself had agreed to communicate
with this world, if he could, and, in order to test the reports, had left a sealed message
to be opened at a certain definite time after his death, the incredulous gasped at the professor's
amazing "credulity."

William James wasn't "credulous." He was simply open-minded. Maybe the soul of man is immortal.
The professors couldn't prove it wasn't, so James was willing to open his mind to evidence.
He was willing to hunt for evidence, and to be convinced by it.

And in that he was simply keeping America's promise: he was actually doing what we, as a nation,
proclaimed that we would do. He was tolerant; he was willing to listen to what seems preposterous,
and to consider what might, though queer, be true. And he showed that this democratic attitude
of mind is every bit as fruitful as the aristocratic determination to ignore new and strange-looking
ideas. James was a democrat. He gave all men and all creeds, any idea, any theory, any superstition,
a respectful hearing.

His interest in spiritualism is merely one illustration in a thousand. The hard scientists
knew it was a hoax because they couldn't explain it, and the sentimentalists knew it was the
truth because they wished it to be: but James wanted to know the facts. So he went to Mrs.
Piper, and heard her out. Nay, he listened to Palladino and to Munsterberg. They pretended
to know, and maybe they did.

And last year, when Frank Harris published his book on Shakespeare, to show that the "unknown"
life and character of the poet could be drawn from his works, the other professors laughed
the theory out of court. James went to Shakespeare and read the plays all over again to test
the Harris theory. Maybe the poet could be known by his works. The fact that the theory was
revolutionary did not alter the possibility that it might be true.

So with religion. A scientist, living in an age when science is dogmatically irreligious, he
turned from its cocksure reasoning to ask for the facts. He went to the lives of the saints!
Not to Herbert Spencer, you see. When he wanted to study the religious experience he went to
the people who had had it, to Santa Theresa and Mrs. Eddy. They might know something the professors
didn't know.

And again: at the age of sixty-five, with the whole of New England's individualism behind him,
he asked about socialism. When he met H. G. Wells, he listened to the socialist, and, as it
happens, was converted. So he said so. James was no more afraid of a new political theory than
he was of ghosts, and he was no more afraid of proclaiming a new theory, or an old one, than
he was of being a ghost. I think he would have listened with an open mind to the devil's account
of heaven, and I'm sure he would have heard him out on hell.

James knew that he didn't know. He never acted upon the notion that the truth was his store
of wisdom. Perhaps that is why he kept on rummaging about in other people's stores, and commending
their goods. He seemed to take a delight in writing introductions, and appreciations of new
books, and in going out of his way to listen to a young doctor of philosophy, or an undergraduate
discussion of pragmatism, or the poetry of an obscure mystic. And, optimist that he was, by
virtue of his unceasing freshness of interest, there is nothing more open-minded in our literature
than his chivalrous respect for the pessimism of Francis Thompson.

He felt with all sorts of men. He understood their demand for immediate answers to the great
speculative questions of life. God, freedom, immortality, nature as moral or non-moral--these
were for him not matters of idle scientific wonder, but of urgent need: The scientific demand
that men should wait "till doomsday, or till such time as our senses and intellect working
together may have raked in evidence enough" for answers to these questions, is, says James,
"the queerest idol ever manufactured in the philosophic cave."  We cannot wait for a final
solution. Our daily life is full of choices that we cannot dodge, and some guide we simply
must have. There can be no loitering at the crossroads. We are busy. We must choose, whether
we will it or not, and where all is doubt, who shall refuse us the right to believe what seems
most adapted to our needs? Not know, you understand, but believe.

