AROUND THE TEA-TABLE.

BY LOUIS KLOPSCH.

PREFACE.

At breakfast we have no time to spare, for the duties of the day are clamoring for attention;
at the noon-day dining hour some of the family are absent; but at six o'clock in the evening
we all come to the tea-table for chit-chat and the recital of adventures. We take our friends
in with us--the more friends, the merrier. You may imagine that the following chapters are
things said or conversations indulged in, or papers read, or paragraphs, made up from that
interview. We now open the doors very wide and invite all to come in and be seated around the
tea-table.

T. DEW. T.

CONTENTS.

   CHAP.
      I.--The table-cloth is spread
     II.--Mr. Givemfits and Dr. Butterfield
    III.--A growler soothed
     IV.--Carlo and the freezer
      V.--Old games repeated
     VI.--The full-blooded cow
    VII.--The dregs in Leatherback's tea-cup
   VIII.--The hot axle
     IX.--Beefsteak for ministers
      X.--Autobiography of an old pair of scissors
     XI.--A lie, zoologically considered
    XII.--A breath of English air
   XIII.--The midnight lecture
    XIV.--The sexton
     XV.--The old cradle
    XVI.--The horse's letter
   XVII.--Kings of the kennel
  XVIII.--The massacre of church music
    XIX.--The battle of pew and pulpit
     XX.--The devil's grist-mill
    XXI.--The conductor's dream
   XXII.--Push & Pull
  XXIII.--Bostonians
   XXIV.--Jonah vs. the whale
    XXV.--Something under the sofa
   XXVI.--The way to keep fresh
  XXVII.--Christmas bells
 XXVIII.--Poor preaching
   XXIX.--Shelves a man's index
    XXX.--Behavior at church
   XXXI.--Masculine and feminine
  XXXII.--Literary felony
 XXXIII.--Literary abstinence
  XXXIV.--Short or long pastorates
   XXXV.--An editor's chip basket
  XXXVI.--The manhood of service
 XXXVII.--Balky people
XXXVIII.--Anonymous letters
  XXXIX.--Brawn or brain
     XL.--Warm-weather religion
    XLI.--Hiding eggs for Easter
   XLII.--Sink or swim
  XLIII.--Shells from the beach
   XLIV.--Catching the bay mare
    XLV.--Our first and last cigar
   XLVI.--Move, moving, moved
  XLVII.--The advantage of small libraries
 XLVIII.--Reformation in letter writing
   XLIX.--Royal marriages
      L.--Three visits
     LI.--Manahachtanienks
    LII.--A dip in the sea
   LIII.--Hard shell considerations
    LIV.--Wiseman, Heavyasbricks and Quizzle
     LV.--A layer of waffles
    LVI.--Friday evening

SABBATH EVENINGS.

   LVII.--The Sabbath evening tea-table
  LVIII.--The warm heart of Christ
    LIX.--Sacrifice everything
     LX.--The youngsters have left
    LXI.--Family prayers
   LXII.--A call to sailors
  LXIII.--Jehoshaphat's shipping
   LXIV.--All about mercy
    LXV.--Under the camel's saddle
   LXVI.--Half-and-half churches
  LXVII.--Thorns
 LXVIII.--Who touched me?

AROUND THE TEA-TABLE.

CHAPTER I.

THE TABLE-CLOTH IS SPREAD.

Our theory has always been, "Eat lightly in the evening." While, therefore, morning and noon
there is bountifulness, we do not have much on our tea-table but dishes and talk. The most
of the world's work ought to be finished by six o'clock p.m. The children are home from school.
The wife is done mending or shopping. The merchant has got through with dry-goods or hardware.
Let the ring of the tea-bell be sharp and musical. Walk into the room fragrant with Oolong
or Young Hyson. Seat yourself at the tea-table wide enough apart to have room to take out your
pocket-handkerchief if you want to cry at any pitiful story of the day, or to spread yourself
in laughter if some one propound an irresistible conundrum.

The bottle rules the sensual world, but the tea-cup is queen in all the fair dominions. Once
this leaf was very rare, and fifty dollars a pound; and when the East India Company made a
present to the king of two pounds and two ounces, it was considered worth a mark in history.
But now Uncle Sam and his wife every year pour thirty million pounds of it into their saucers.
Twelve hundred years ago, a Chinese scholar by the name of Lo Yu wrote of tea, "It tempers
the spirits and harmonizes the mind, dispels lassitude and relieves fatigue, awakens thought
and prevents drowsiness, lightens and refreshes the body, and clears the perceptive faculties."
Our own observation is that there is nothing that so loosens the hinge of the tongue, soothes
the temper, exhilarates the diaphragm, kindles sociality and makes the future promising. Like
one of the small glasses in the wall of Barnum's old museum, through which you could see cities
and mountains bathed in sunshine, so, as you drink from the tea-cup, and get on toward the
bottom so that it is sufficiently elevated, you can see almost anything glorious that you want
to. We had a great-aunt who used to come from town with the pockets of her bombazine dress
standing way out with nice things for the children, but she would come in looking black as
a thunder cloud until she had got through with her first cup of tea, when she would empty her
right pocket of sugarplums, and having finished her second cup would empty the other pocket,
and after she had taken an extra third cup, because she felt so very chilly, it took all the
sitting-room and parlor and kitchen to contain her exhilaration.

Be not surprised if, after your friends are seated at the table, the style of the conversation
depends very much on the kind of tea that the housewife pours for the guests. If it be genuine
Young Hyson, the leaves of which are gathered early in the season, the talk will be fresh,
and spirited, and sunshiny. If it be what the Chinese call Pearl tea, but our merchants have
named Gunpowder, the conversation will be explosive, and somebody's reputation will be killed
before you get through. If it be green tea, prepared by large infusion of Prussian blue and
gypsum, or black tea mixed with pulverized black lead, you may expect there will be a poisonous
effect in the conversation and the moral health damaged. The English Parliament found that
there had come into that country two million pounds of what the merchants call "lie tea," and,
as far as I can estimate, about the same amount has been imported into the United States; and
when the housewife pours into the cups of her guests a decoction of this "lie tea," the group
are sure to fall to talking about their neighbors, and misrepresenting everything they touch.
One meeting of a "sewing society" up in Canada, where this tea was served, resulted in two
law-suits for slander, four black eyes that were not originally of that color, the expulsion
of the minister, and the abrupt removal from the top of the sexton's head of all capillary
adornment.

But on our tea-table we will have first-rate Ningyong, or Pouchong, or Souchong, or Oolong,
so that the conversation may be pure and healthy.

We propose from time to time to report some of the talk of our visitors at the tea-table. We
do not entertain at tea many very great men. The fact is that great men at the tea-table for
the most part are a bore. They are apt to be self-absorbed, or so profound I cannot understand
them, or analytical of food, or nervous from having studied themselves half to death, or exhume
a piece of brown bread from their coat-tail because they are dyspeptic, or make such solemn
remarks about hydro-benzamide or sulphindigotic acid that the children get frightened and burst
out crying, thinking something dreadful is going to happen. Learned Johnson, splashing his
pompous wit over the table for Boswell to pick up, must have been a sublime nuisance. It was
said of Goldsmith that "he wrote like an angel and talked like poor Poll." There is more interest
in the dining-room when we have ordinary people than when we have extraordinary.

There are men and women who occasionally meet at our tea-table whose portraits are worth taking.
There are Dr. Butterfield, Mr. Givemfits, Dr. Heavyasbricks, Miss Smiley and Miss Stinger,
who come to see us. We expect to invite them all to tea very soon; and as you will in future
hear of their talk, it is better that I tell you now some of their characteristics.

Dr. Butterfield is one of our most welcome visitors at the tea-table. As his name indicates,
he is both melting and beautiful. He always takes pleasant views of things. He likes his tea
sweet; and after his cup is passed to him, he frequently hands it back, and says, "This is
really delightful, but a little more sugar, if you please." He has a mellowing effect upon
the whole company. After hearing him talk a little while, I find tears standing in my eyes
without any sufficient reason. It is almost as good as a sermon to see him wipe his mouth with
a napkin. I would not want him all alone to tea, because it would be making a meal of sweetmeats.
But when he is present with others of different temperament, he is entertaining. He always
reminds me of the dessert called floating island, beaten egg on custard. On all subjects--political,
social and religious--he takes the smooth side. He is a minister, and preached a course of
fifty-one sermons on heaven in one year, saying that he would preach on the last and fifty-second
Sunday concerning a place of quite opposite character; but the audience assembling on that
day, in August, he rose and said that it was too hot to preach, and so dismissed them immediately
with a benediction. At the tea-table I never could persuade him to take any currant-jelly,
for he always preferred strawberry-jam. He rejects acidity.

We generally place opposite him at the tea-table Mr. Givemfits. He is the very antipodes of
Dr. Butterfield; and when the two talk, you get both sides of a subject. I have to laugh to
hear them talk; and my little girl, at the controversial collisions, gets into such hysterics
that we have to send her with her mouth full into the next room, to be pounded on the back
to stop her from choking. My friend Givemfits is "down on" almost everything but tea, and I
think one reason of his nervous, sharp, petulant way is that he takes too much of this beverage.
He thinks the world is very soon coming to an end, and says, "The sooner the better, confound
it!" He is a literary man, a newspaper writer, a book critic, and so on; but if he were a minister,
he would preach a course of fifty-one sermons on "future punishment," proposing to preach the
fifty-second and last Sabbath on "future rewards;" but the last Sabbath, coming in December,
he would say to his audience, "Really, it is too cold to preach. We will close with the doxology
and omit the benediction, as I must go down by the stove to warm."

He does not like women--thinks they are of no use in the world, save to set the tea a-drawing.
Says there was no trouble in Paradise till a female came there, and that ever since Adam lost
the rib woman has been to man a bad pain in the side. He thinks that Dr. Butterfield, who sits
opposite him at the tea-table, is something of a hypocrite, and asks him all sorts of puzzling
questions. The fact is, it is vinegar-cruet against sugar-bowl in perpetual controversy. I
do not blame Givemfits as much as many do. His digestion is poor. The chills and fever enlarged
his spleen. He has frequent attacks of neuralgia. Once a week he has the sick headache. His
liver is out of order. He has twinges of rheumatism. Nothing he ever takes agrees with him
but tea, and that doesn't. He has had a good deal of trial, and the thunder of trouble has
soured the milk of human kindness. When he gets criticising Dr. Butterfield's sermons and books,
I have sometimes to pretend that I hear somebody at the front door, so that I can go out in
the hall and have an uproarious laugh without being indecorous. It is one of the great amusements
of my life to have on opposite sides of my tea-table Dr. Butterfield and Mr. Givemfits.

But we have many others who come to our tea-table: Miss Smiley, who often runs in about six
o'clock. All sweetness is Miss Smiley. She seems to like everybody, and everybody seems to
like her. Also Miss Stinger, sharp as a hornet, prides herself on saying things that cut; dislikes
men; cannot bear the sight of a pair of boots; loathes a shaving apparatus; thinks Eve would
have shown better capacity for housekeeping if she had, the first time she used her broom,
swept Adam out of Paradise. Besides these ladies, many good, bright, useful and sensible people
of all kinds. In a few days we shall invite a group of them to tea, and you shall hear some
of their discussions of men and books and things. We shall order a canister of the best Young
Hyson, pull out the extension-table, hang on the kettle, stir the blaze, and with chamois and
silver-powder scour up the tea-set that we never use save when we have company.

CHAPTER II.

MR. GIVEMFITS AND DR. BUTTERFIELD.

The tea-kettle never sang a sweeter song than on the evening I speak of. It evidently knew
that company was coming. At the appointed time our two friends, Dr. Butterfield and Mr. Givemfits,
arrived. As already intimated, they were opposite in temperament--the former mild, mellow,
fat, good-natured and of fine digestion, always seeing the bright side of anything; the other,
splenetic, harsh, and when he swallowed anything was not sure whether he would be the death
of it, or it would be the death of him.

No sooner had they taken their places opposite each other at the table than conversation opened.
As my wife was handing the tea over to Mr. Givemfits the latter broke out in a tirade against
the weather. He said that this winter was the most unbearable that had ever been known in the
almanacs. When it did not rain, it snowed; and when it was not mud, it was sleet. At this point
he turned around and coughed violently, and said that in such atmosphere it was impossible
to keep clear of colds. He thought he would go South. He would rather not live at all than
live in such a climate as this. No chance here, save for doctors and undertakers, and even
they have to take their own medicines and lie in their own coffins. At this Dr. Butterfield
gave a good-natured laugh, and said, "I admit the inconveniences of the weather; but are you
not aware that there has been a drought for three years in the country, and great suffering
in the land for lack of rain? We need all this wet weather to make an equilibrium. What is
discomfort to you is the wealth of the land. Besides that, I find that if I cannot get sunshine
in the open air I can carry it in the crown of my hat. He who has a warm coat, and a full stove,
and a comfortable house, ought not to spend much of his time in complaint."

Miss Smiley slid this moment into the conversation with a hearty "Ha! ha!" She said, "This
last winter has been the happiest of my life. I never hear the winds gallop but I want to join
them. The snow is only the winter in blossom. Instead of here and there on the pond, the whole
country is covered with white lilies. I have seen gracefulness enough in the curve of a snowdrift
to keep me in admiration for a week. Do you remember that morning after the storm of sleet,
when every tree stood in mail of ice, with drawn sword of icicle? Besides, I think the winter
drives us in, and drives us together. We have never had such a time at our house with checker-boards
and dominoes, and blind-man's-buff, and the piano, as this winter. Father and mother said it
seemed to them like getting married over again. Besides that, on nights when the storm was
so great that the door-bell went to bed and slept soundly, Charles Dickens stepped in from
Gad's Hill; and Henry W. Longfellow, without knocking, entered the sitting-room, his hair white
as if he had walked through the snow with his hat off; and William H. Prescott, with his eyesight
restored, happened in from Mexico, a cactus in his buttonhole; and Audubon set a cage of birds
on the table--Baltimore oriole, chaffinch, starling and bobolink doing their prettiest; and
Christopher North thumped his gun down on the hall floor, and hung his 'sporting jacket' on
the hat-rack, and shook the carpet brown with Highland heather. As Walter Scott came in his
dog scampered in after him, and put both paws up on the marble-top table; and Minnie asked
the old man why he did not part his hair better, instead of letting it hang all over his forehead,
and he apologized for it by the fact that he had been on a long tramp from Melrose Abbey to
Kenilworth Castle. But I think as thrilling an evening as we had this winter was with a man
who walked in with a prison-jacket, his shoes mouldy, and his cheek pallid for the want of
the sunlight. He was so tired that he went immediately to sleep. He would not take the sofa,
saying he was not used to that, but he stretched himself on the floor and put his head on an
ottoman. At first he snored dreadfully, and it was evident he had a horrid dream; but after
a while he got easier, and a smile came over his face, and he woke himself singing and shouting.
I said, 'What is the matter with you, and what were you dreaming about?' 'Well,' he said, 'the
bad dream I had was about the City of Destruction, and the happy dream was about the Celestial
City;' and we all knew him right away, and shouted, 'Glorious old John Bunyan! How is Christiana?'
So, you see," said Miss Smiley, "on stormy nights we really have a pleasanter time than when
the moon and stars are reigning."

Miss Stinger had sat quietly looking into her tea-cup until this moment, when she clashed her
spoon into the saucer, and said, "If there is any thing I dislike, it is an attempt at poetry
when you can't do it. I know some people who always try to show themselves in public; but when
they are home, they never have their collar on straight, and in the morning look like a whirlwind
breakfasting on a haystack. As for me, I am practical, and winter is winter, and sleet is sleet,
and ice is ice, and a tea-cup is a tea-cup; and if you will pass mine up to the hostess to
be resupplied, I will like it a great deal better than all this sentimentalism. No sweetening,
if you please. I do not like things sweet. Do not put in any of your beautiful snow for sugar,
nor stir it with an icicle."

This sudden jerk in the conversation snapped it off, and for a moment there was quiet. I knew
not how to get conversation started again. Our usual way is to talk about the weather; but
that subject had been already exhausted.

Suddenly I saw the color for the first time in years come into the face of Mr. Givemfits. The
fact was that, in biting a hard crust of bread, he had struck a sore tooth which had been troubling
him, and he broke out with the exclamation, "Dr. Butterfield, the physical and moral world
is degenerating. Things get worse and worse. Look, for instance, at the tone of many of the
newspapers; gossip, abuse, lies, blackmail, make up the chief part of them, and useful intelligence
is the exception. The public have more interest in murders and steamboat explosions than in
the items of mental and spiritual progress. Church and State are covered up with newspaper mud."

"Stop!" said Dr. Butterfield. "Don't you ever buy newspapers?"

CHAPTER III.

A GROWLER SOOTHED.

Givemfits said to Dr. Butterfield, "You asked me last evening if I ever bought newspapers.
I reply, Yes, and write for them too.

"But I see their degeneracy. Once you could believe nearly all they said; now he is a fool
who believes a tenth part of it. There is the New York 'Scandalmonger,' and the Philadelphia
'Prestidigitateur,' and the Boston 'Prolific,' which do nothing but hoodwink and confound the
public mind. Ten dollars will get a favorable report of a meeting, or as much will get it caricatured.
There is a secret spring behind almost every column. It depends on what the editor had for
supper the night before whether he wants Foster hung or his sentence commuted. If the literary
man had toast and tea, as weak as this before me, he sleeps soundly, and next day says in his
columns that Foster ought not to be executed; he is a good fellow, and the clergymen who went
to Albany to get him pardoned were engaged in a holy calling, and their congregations had better
hold fast of them lest they go up like Elijah. But if the editor had a supper at eleven, o'clock
at night of scallops fried in poor lard, and a little too much bourbon, the next day he is
headachy, and says Foster, the scalawag, ought to be hung, or beaten to death with his own
car-hook, and the ministers who went to Albany to get him pardoned might better have been taking
tea with some of the old ladies. I have been behind the scenes and know all about it, and must
admit that I have done some of the bad work myself. I have on my writing-stand thirty or forty
books to discuss as a critic, and the column must be made up. Do you think I take time to read
the thirty or forty books? No. I first take a dive into the index, a second dive into the preface,
a third dive into the four hundredth page, the fourth dive into the seventieth page, and then
seize my pen and do up the whole job in fifteen minutes. I make up my mind to like the book
or not to like it, according as I admire or despise the author. But the leniency or severity
of my article depends on whether the room is cold and my rheumatism that day is sharp or easy.
Speaking of these things reminds me that the sermon which the Right Reverend Bishop Goodenough
preached last Sunday, on 'Growth in Grace,' was taken down and brought to our office by a reporter
who fell over the door-sill of the sanctum so drunk we had to help him up and fish in his pockets
for the bishop's sermon on holiness of heart and life, which we were sure was somewhere about him."

"Tut! tut!" cried Dr. Butterfield. "I think, Mr. Givemfits, you are entirely mistaken. (The
doctor all the while stirring the sugar in his cup.) I think the printing-press is a mighty
agency for the world's betterment. If I were not a minister, I would be an editor. There are
Bohemians in the newspaper profession, as in all others, but do not denounce the entire apostleship
for the sake of one Judas. Reporters, as I know them, are clever fellows, worked almost to
death, compelled to keep unseasonable hours, and have temptations to fight which few other
occupations endure. Considering the blunders and indistinctness of the public speaker, I think
they get things wonderfully accurate. The speaker murders the king's English, and is mad because
the reporter cannot resuscitate the corpse. I once made a speech at an ice-cream festival amid
great embarrassments, and hemmed, and hawed, and expectorated cotton from my dry mouth, and
sweat like a Turkish bath, the adjectives, and the nouns, and verbs, and prepositions of my
address keeping an Irish wake; but the next day, in the 'Johnstown Advocate,' my remarks read
as gracefully as Addison's 'Spectator.' I knew a phonographer in Washington whose entire business
it was to weed out from Congressmen's speeches the sins against Anglo-Saxon; but the work was
too much for him, and he died of delirium tremens, from having drank too much of the wine of
syntax, in his ravings imagining that 'interrogations' were crawling over him like snakes,
and that 'interjections' were thrusting him through with daggers and 'periods' struck him like
bullets, and his body seemed torn apart by disjunctive conjunctions. No, Mr. Givemfits, you
are too hard. And as to the book-critics whom you condemn, they do more for the circulation
of books than any other class, especially if they denounce and caricature, for then human nature
will see the book at any price. After I had published my book on 'The Philosophy of Civilization,'
it was so badgered by the critics and called so many hard names that my publishers could not
print it fast enough to meet the demands of the curious. Besides, what would we do without
the newspaper? With, the iron rake of the telegraph it draws the whole world to our door every
morning. The sermon that the minister preached to five hundred people on Sabbath the newspaper
next day preaches to fifty thousand. It takes the verses which the poet chimed in his small
room of ten feet by six, and rings them into the ears of the continent. The cylinder of the
printing-press is to be one of the wheels of the Lord's chariot. The good newspapers will overcome
the bad ones, and the honey-bees will outnumber the hornets. Instead of the three or four religious
newspapers that once lived on gruel and pap, sitting down once a week on some good man's door-step
to rest, thankful if not kicked off, now many of the denominations have stalwart journals that
swing their scythe through the sins of the world, and are avant couriers of the Lord's coming."

As Dr. Butterfield concluded this sentence his face shone like a harvest moon. We had all dropped
our knives, and were looking at him. The Young Hyson tea was having its mollifying effect on
the whole company. Mr. Givemfits had made way with his fourth cup (they were small cups, the
set we use for company), and he was entirely soothed and moderated in his opinions about everything,
and actually clapped his hands at Dr. Butterfield's peroration. Even Miss Stinger was in a
glow, for she had drank large quantities of the fragrant beverage while piping hot, and in
her delight she took Givemfits' arm, and asked him if he ever meant to get married. Miss Smiley
smiled. Then Dr. Butterfield lifted his cup, and proposed a toast which we all drank standing:
"The mission of the printing-press! The salubrity of the climate! The prospects ahead! The
wonders of Oolong and Young Hyson!"

CHAPTER IV.

CARLO AND THE FREEZER.

We had a jolly time at our tea-table this evening. We had not seen our old friend for ten years.
When I heard his voice in the hall, it seemed like a snatch of "Auld Lang Syne." He came from
Belleville, where was the first home we ever set up for ourselves. It was a stormy evening,
and we did not expect company, but we soon made way for him at the table. Jennie was very willing
to stand up at the corner; and after a fair napkin had been thrown over the place where she
had dropped a speck of jelly, our friend and I began the rehearsal of other days. While I was
alluding to a circumstance that occurred between me and one of my Belleville neighbors the
children cried out with stentorian voice, "Tell us about Carlo and the freezer;" and they kicked
the leg of the table, and beat with both hands, and clattered the knives on the plate, until
I was compelled to shout, "Silence! You act like a band of Arabs! Frank, you had better swallow
what you have in your mouth before you attempt to talk." Order having been gained, I began:

We sat in the country parsonage, on a cold winter day, looking out of our back window toward
the house of a neighbor. She was a model of kindness, and a most convenient neighbor to have.
It was a rule between us that when either house was in want of anything it should borrow of
the other. The rule worked well for the parsonage, but rather badly for the neighbor, because
on our side of the fence we had just begun to keep house, and needed to borrow everything,
while we had nothing to lend, except a few sermons, which the neighbor never tried to borrow,
from the fact that she had enough of them on Sundays. There is no danger that your neighbor
will burn a hole in your new brass kettle if you have none to lend. It will excite no surprise
to say that we had an interest in all that happened on the other side of the parsonage fence,
and that any injury inflicted on so kind a woman would rouse our sympathy.

On the wintry morning of which we speak our neighbor had been making ice-cream; but there being
some defect in the machinery, the cream had not sufficiently congealed, and so she set the
can of the freezer containing the luxury on her back steps, expecting the cold air would completely
harden it. What was our dismay to see that our dog Carlo, on whose early education we were
expending great care, had taken upon himself the office of ice-cream inspector, and was actually
busy with the freezer! We hoisted the window and shouted at him, but his mind was so absorbed
in his undertaking he did not stop to listen. Carlo was a greyhound, thin, gaunt and long-nosed,
and he was already making his way on down toward the bottom of the can. His eyes and all his
head had disappeared in the depths of the freezer. Indeed, he was so far submerged that when
he heard us, with quick and infuriate pace, coming up close behind him, he could not get his
head out, and so started with the encumbrance on his head, in what direction he knew not. No
dog was ever in a more embarrassing position--freezer to the right of him, freezer to the left
of him, freezer on the top of him, freezer under him.

So, thoroughly blinded, he rushed against the fence then against the side of the house, then
against a tree. He barked as though he thought he might explode the nuisance with loud sound,
but the sound was confined in so strange a speaking-trumpet that he could not have known his
own voice. His way seemed hedged up. Fright and anger and remorse and shame whirled him about
without mercy.

A feeling of mirthfulness, which sometimes takes me on most inappropriate occasions, seized
me, and I sat down on the ground, powerless at the moment when Carlo most needed help. If I
only could have got near enough, I would have put my foot on the freezer, and, taking hold
of the dog's tail, dislodged him instantly; but this I was not permitted to do. At this stage
of the disaster my neighbor appeared with a look of consternation, her cap-strings flying in
the cold wind. I tried to explain, but the aforesaid untimely hilarity hindered me. All I could
do was to point at the flying freezer and the adjoining dog and ask her to call off her freezer,
and, with assumed indignation, demand what she meant by trying to kill my greyhound.

The poor dog's every attempt at escape only wedged himself more thoroughly fast. But after
a while, in time to save the dog, though not to save the ice-cream, my neighbor and myself
effected a rescue. Edwin Landseer, the great painter of dogs and their friends, missed his
best chance by not being there when the parishioner took hold of the freezer and the pastor
seized the dog's tail, and, pulling mightily in opposite directions, they each got possession
of their own property.

Carlo was cured of his love for luxuries, and the sight of the freezer on the back steps till
the day of his death would send him howling away.

Carlo found, as many people have found, that it is easier to get into trouble than to get out.
Nothing could be more delicious than while he was eating his way in, but what must have been
his feelings when he found it impossible to get out! While he was stealing the freezer the
freezer stole him.

Lesson for dogs and men! "Come in!" says the gray spider to the house-fly; "I have entertained
a great many flies. I have plenty of room, fine meals and a gay life. Walk on this suspension
bridge. Give me your hand. Come in, my sweet lady fly. These walls are covered with silk, and
the tapestry is gobelin. I am a wonderful creature. I have eight eyes, and of course can see
your best interest. Philosophers have written volumes about my antennae and cephalothorax."
House-fly walks gently in. The web rocks like a cradle in the breeze. The house-fly feels honored
to be the guest of such a big spider. We all have regard for big bugs. "But what is this?"
cries the fly, pointing to a broken wing, "and this fragment of an insect's foot. There must
have been a murder here! Let me go back!" "Ha! ha!" says the spider, "the gate is locked, the
drawbridge is up. I only contracted to bring you in. I cannot afford to let you out. Take a
drop of this poison, and it will quiet your nerves. I throw this hook of a fang over your neck
to keep you from falling off." Word went back to the house-fly's family, and a choir of great
green-bottled insects sang this psalm at the funeral:

  "An unfortunate fly a-visiting went,
  And in a gossamer web found himself pent."

The first five years of a dissipated life are comparatively easy, for it is all down hill;
but when the man wakes up and finds his tongue wound with blasphemies, and his eyes swimming
in rheum, and the antennae of vice feeling along his nerves, and the spiderish poison eating
through his very life, and, he resolves to return, he finds it hard traveling, for it is up
hill, and the fortresses along the road open on him their batteries. We go into sin, hop, skip
and jump; we come out of it creeping on all fours.

Let flies and dogs and men keep out of mischief. It is smooth all the way there, and rough
all the way back. It is ice-cream for Carlo clear down to the bottom of the can, but afterward
it is blinded eyes and sore neck and great fright. It is only eighteen inches to go into the
freezer; it is three miles out. For Robert Burns it is rich wine and clapping hands and carnival
all the way going to Edinburgh; but going back, it is worn-out body, and lost estate, and stinging
conscience, and broken heart, and a drunkard's grave.

Better moderate our desires. Carlo had that morning as good a breakfast as any dog need to
have. It was a law of the household that he should be well fed. Had he been satisfied with
bread and meat, all would have been well. But he sauntered out for luxuries. He wanted ice-cream.
He got it, but brought upon his head the perils and damages of which I have written. As long
as we have reasonable wants we get on comfortably, but it is the struggle after luxuries that
fills society with distress, and populates prisons, and sends hundreds of people stark mad.
Dissatisfied with a plain house, and ordinary apparel, and respectable surroundings, they plunge
their head into enterprises and speculations from which they have to sneak out in disgrace.
Thousands of men have sacrificed honor and religion for luxuries, and died with the freezer
about their ears.

Young Catchem has one horse, but wants six. Lives in a nice house on Thirtieth street, but
wants one on Madison Square. Has one beautiful wife, but wants four. Owns a hundred thousand
dollars of Erie stock, but wants a million. Plunges his head into schemes of all sorts, eats
his way to the bottom of the can till he cannot extricate himself, and constables, and sheriffs,
and indignant society, which would have said nothing had he been successful, go to pounding
him because he cannot get his head out.

Our poor old Carlo is dead now. We all cried when we found that he would never frisk again
at our coming, nor put up his paw against us. But he lived long enough to preach the sermon
about caution and contentment of which I have been the stenographer.

CHAPTER V.

OLD GAMES REPEATED.

We tarried longer in the dining-room this evening than usual, and the children, losing their
interest in what we were saying got to playing all about us in a very boisterous way, but we
said nothing, for it is the evening hour, and I think it keeps one fresh to have these things
going on around us. Indeed, we never get over being boys and girls. The good, healthy man sixty
years of age is only a boy with added experience. A woman is only an old girl. Summer is but
an older spring. August is May in its teens. We shall be useful in proportion as we keep young
in our feelings. There is no use for fossils except in museums and on the shelf. I like young
old folks.

Indeed, we all keep doing over what we did in childhood. You thought that long ago you got
through with "blind-man's-buff," and "hide-and-seek," and "puss in the corner," and "tick-tack-to,"
and "leap-frog," but all our lives are passed in playing those old games over again.

You say, "What a racket those children make in the other room! When Squire Jones' boys come
over to spend the evening with our children, it seems as if they would tear the house down."
"Father, be patient!" the wife says; "we once played 'blind-man's-buff' ourselves." Sure enough,
father is playing it now, if he only knew it. Much of our time in life we go about blindfolded,
stumbling over mistakes, trying to catch things that we miss, while people stand round the
ring and titter, and break out with half-suppressed laughter, and push us ahead, and twitch
the corner of our eye-bandage. After a while we vehemently clutch something with both hands,
and announce to the world our capture; the blindfold is taken from our eyes, and, amid the
shouts of the surrounding spectators, we find we have, after all, caught the wrong thing. What
is that but "blind-man's buff" over again?

You say, "Jenny and Harry, go to bed. It seems so silly for you to sit there making two parallel
lines perpendicular, and two parallel lines horizontal, and filling up the blanks with crosses
and o's, and then crying out 'tick-tack-to.'" My dear man, you are doing every day in business
just what your children are doing in the nursery. You find it hard to get things into a line.
You have started out for worldly success. You get one or two things fixed but that is not what
you want. After a while you have had two fine successes. You say, "If I can have a third success,
I will come out ahead." But somebody is busy on the same slate, trying to hinder you getting
the game. You mark; he marks. I think you will win. To the first and second success which you
have already gained you add the third, for which you have long been seeking. The game is yours,
and you clap your hands, and hunch your opponent in the side, and shout,

  "Tick-tack-to,
  Three in a row."

The funniest play that I ever joined in at school, and one that sets me a-laughing now as I
think of it so I can hardly write, is "leap-frog." It is unartistic and homely. It is so humiliating
to the boy who bends himself over and puts his hands down on his knees, and it is so perilous
to the boy who, placing his hands on the stooped shoulders, attempts to fly over. But I always
preferred the risk of the one who attempted the leap rather than the humiliation of the one
who consented to be vaulted over. It was often the case that we both failed in our part and
we went down together. For this Jack Snyder carried a grudge against me and would not speak,
because he said I pushed him down a-purpose. But I hope he has forgiven me by this time, for
he has been out as a missionary. Indeed, if Jack will come this way, I will right the wrong
of olden time by stooping down in my study and letting him spring over me as my children do.

Almost every autumn I see that old-time schoolboy feat repeated. Mr. So-and-so says, "You make
me governor and I will see that you get to be senator. Make me mayor and I will see that you
become assessor. Get me the office of street-sweeper and you shall have one of the brooms.
You stoop down and let me jump over you, and then I will stoop down and let you jump over me.
Elect me deacon and you shall be trustee. You write a good thing about me and I will write
a good thing about you." The day of election in Church or State arrives. A man once very upright
in his principles and policy begins to bend. You cannot understand it. He goes down lower and
lower, until he gets his hands away down on his knees. Then a spry politician or ecclesiastic
comes up behind him, puts his hand on the bowed strategist and springs clear over into some
great position. Good thing to have so good a man in a prominent place. But after a while he
himself begins to bend. Everybody says, "What is the matter now? It cannot be possible that
he is going down too." Oh yes! Turn-about is fair play. Jack Snyder holds it against me to
this day, because, after he had stooped down to let me leap over him, I would not stoop down
to let him leap over me. One half the strange things in Church and State may be accounted for
by the fact that, ever since Adam bowed down so low as to let the race, putting its hands on
him, fly over into ruin, there has been a universal and perpetual tendency to political and
ecclesiastical "leap-frog." In one sense, life is a great "game of ball." We all choose sides
and gather into denominational and political parties. We take our places on the ball ground.
Some are to pitch; they are the radicals. Some are to catch; they are the conservatives. Some
are to strike; they are those fond of polemics and battle. Some are to run; they are the candidates.
There are four hunks--youth, manhood, old age and death. Some one takes the bat, lifts it and
strikes for the prize and misses it, while the man who was behind catches it and goes in. This
man takes his turn at the bat, sees the flying ball of success, takes good aim and strikes
it high, amid the clapping of all the spectators. We all have a chance at the ball. Some of
us run to all the four hunks, from youth to manhood, from manhood to old age, from old age
to death. At the first hunk we bound with uncontrollable mirth; coming to the second, we run
with a slower but stronger tread; coming to the third, our step is feeble; coming to the fourth,
our breath entirely gives out. We throw down the bat on the black hunk of death, and in the
evening catchers and pitchers go home to find the family gathered and the food prepared. So
may we all find the candles lighted, and the table set, and the old folks at home.

CHAPTER VI.

THE FULL-BLOODED COW.

We never had any one drop in about six o'clock p.m. whom we were more glad to see than Fielding,
the Orange County farmer. In the first place, he always had a good appetite, and it did not
make much difference what we had to eat. He would not nibble about the end of a piece of bread,
undecided as to whether he had better take it, nor sit sipping his tea as though the doctor
had ordered him to take only ten drops at a time, mixed with a little sugar and hot water.
Perpetual contact with fresh air and the fields and the mountains gave him a healthy body,
while the religion that he learned in the little church down by the mill-dam kept him in healthy
spirits. Fielding keeps a great drove of cattle and has an overflowing dairy. As we handed
him the cheese he said, "I really believe this is of my own making." "Fielding," I inquired,
"how does your dairy thrive, and have you any new stock on your farm? Come give us a little
touch of the country." He gave me a mischievous look and said, "I will not tell you a word
until you let me know all about that full-blooded cow, of which I have heard something. You
need not try to hide that story any longer." So we yielded to his coaxing. It was about like this:

The man had not been able to pay his debts. The mortgage on the farm had been foreclosed. Day
of sale had come. The sheriff stood on a box reading the terms of vendue. All payments to be
made in six months. The auctioneer took his place. The old man and his wife and the children
all cried as the piano, and the chairs, and the pictures, and the carpets, and the bedsteads
went at half their worth. When the piano went, it seemed to the old people as if the sheriff
were selling all the fingers that had ever played on it; and when the carpets were struck off,
I think father and mother thought of the little feet that had tramped it; and when the bedstead
was sold, it brought to mind the bright, curly heads that had slept on it long before the dark
days had come, and father had put his name on the back of a note, signing his own death warrant.
The next thing to being buried alive is to have the sheriff sell you out when you have been
honest and have tried always to do right. There are so many envious ones to chuckle at your
fall, and come in to buy your carriage, blessing the Lord that the time has come for you to
walk and for them to ride.

But to us the auction reached its climax of interest when we went to the barn. We were spending
our summers in the country, and must have a cow. There were ten or fifteen sukies to be sold.
There were reds, and piebalds, and duns, and browns, and brindles, short horns, long horns,
crumpled horns and no horns. But we marked for our own a cow that was said to be full-blooded,
whether Alderney, or Durham, or Galloway, or Ayrshire, I will not tell lest some cattle fancier
feel insulted by what I say; and if there is any grace that I pride myself on, it is prudence
and a determination always to say smooth things. "How much is bid for this magnificent, full-blooded
cow?" cried the auctioneer. "Seventy-five dollars," shouted some one. I made it eighty. He
made it ninety. Somebody else quickly made it a hundred. After the bids had risen to one hundred
and twenty-five dollars, I got animated, and resolved that I would have that cow if it took
my last cent. "One hundred and forty dollars," shouted my opponent. The auctioneer said it
was the finest cow he had ever sold; and not knowing much about vendues, of course I believed
him. It was a good deal of money for a minister to pay, but then I could get the whole matter
off my hands by giving "a note." In utter defiance of everything I cried out, "One hundred
and fifty dollars!" "Going at that," said the auctioneer. "Going at that! once! twice! three
times! gone! Mr. Talmage has it." It was one of the proudest moments of our life. There she
stood, tall, immense in the girth, horns branching graceful as a tree branch, full-uddered,
silk-coated, pensive-eyed.

We hired two boys to drive her home while we rode in a carriage. No sooner had we started than
the cow showed what turned out to be one of her peculiarities, great speed of hoof. She left
the boys, outran my horse, jumped the fence, frightened nearly to death a group of schoolchildren,
and by the time we got home we all felt as if we had all day been put on a fox-chase.

We never had any peace with that cow. She knew more tricks than a juggler. She could let down
any bars, open any gate, outrun any dog and ruin the patience of any minister. We had her a
year, and yet she never got over wanting to go to the vendue. Once started out of the yard,
she was bound to see the sheriff. We coaxed her with carrots, and apples, and cabbage, and
sweetest stalks, and the richest beverage of slops, but without avail.

As a milker she was a failure. "Mike," who lived just back of our place, would come in at nights
from his "Kerry cow," a scraggly runt that lived on the commons, with his pail so full he had
to carry it cautiously lest it spill over. But after our full-blooded had been in clover to
her eyes all day, Bridget would go out to the barnyard, and tug and pull for a supply enough
to make two or three custards. I said, "Bridget, you don't know how to milk. Let me try." I
sat down by the cow, tried the full force of dynamics, but just at the moment when my success
was about to be demonstrated, a sudden thought took her somewhere between the horns, and she
started for the vendue, with one stroke of her back foot upsetting the small treasure I had
accumulated, and leaving me a mere wreck of what I once was.

She had, among other bad things, a morbid appetite. Notwithstanding we gave her the richest
herbaceous diet, she ate everything she could put her mouth on. She was fond of horse blankets
and articles of human clothing. I found her one day at the clothes line, nearly choked to death,
for she had swallowed one leg of something and seemed dissatisfied that she could not get down
the other. The most perfect nuisance that I ever had about my place was that full-blooded.

Having read in our agricultural journals of cows that were slaughtered yielding fourteen hundred
pounds neat weight, we concluded to sell her to the butcher. We set a high price upon her and
got it--that is, we took a note for it, which is the same thing. My bargain with the butcher
was the only successful chapter in my bovine experiences. The only taking-off in the whole
transaction was that the butcher ran away, leaving me nothing but a specimen of poor chirography,
and I already had enough of that among my manuscripts.

My friend, never depend on high-breeds. Some of the most useless of cattle had ancestors spoken
of in the "Commentaries of Caesar." That Alderney whose grandfather used to graze on a lord's
park in England may not be worth the grass she eats.

Do not depend too much on the high-sounding name of Durham or Devon. As with animals, so with
men. Only one President ever had a President for a son. Let every cow make her own name, and
every man achieve his own position. It is no great credit to a fool that he had a wise grandfather.
Many an Ayrshire and Hereford has had the hollow-horn and the foot-rot. Both man and animal
are valuable in proportion as they are useful. "Mike's" cow beat my full-blooded.

CHAPTER VII.

THE DREGS IN LEATHERBACKS' TEA-CUP.

We have an earlier tea this evening than usual, for we have a literary friend who comes about
this time of the week, and he must go home to retire about eight o'clock. His nervous system
is so weak that he must get three or four hours sleep before midnight; otherwise he is next
day so cross and censorious he scalps every author he can lay his hand on. As he put his hand
on the table with an indelible blot of ink on his thumb and two fingers, which blot he had
not been able to wash off, I said, "Well, my old friend Leatherbacks, what books have you been
reading to-day?"

He replied, "I have been reading 'Men and Things.' Some books touch only the head and make
us think; other books touch only the heart and make us feel; here and there one touches us
under the fifth rib and makes us laugh; but the book on 'Men and Things,' by the Rev. Dr. C.S.
Henry, touched me all over. I have felt better ever since. I have not seen the author but once
since the old university days, when he lectured us and pruned us and advised us and did us
more good than almost any other instructor we ever had. Oh, those were grand days! No better
than the present, for life grows brighter to me all the time; but we shall not forget the quaint,
strong, brusque professor who so unceremoniously smashed things which he did not like, and
shook, the class with merriment or indignation. The widest awake professorial room in the land
was Dr. Henry's, in the New York University. But the participators in those scenes are all
scattered. I know the whereabouts of but three or four. So we meet for a little while on earth,
and then we separate. There must be a better place somewhere ahead of us.

"I have also been looking over a book that overhauls the theology and moral character of Abraham
Lincoln. This is the only kind of slander that is safe. I have read all the stuff for the last
three years published about Abraham Lincoln's unfair courtships and blank infidelity. The protracted
discussion has made only one impression upon me, and that is this: How safe it is to slander
a dead man! You may say what you will in print about him, he brings no rebutting evidence.
I have heard that ghosts do a great many things, but I never heard of one as printing a book
or editing a newspaper to vindicate himself. Look out how you vilify a living man, for he may
respond with pen, or tongue, or cowhide; but only get a man thoroughly dead (that is, so certified
by the coroner) and have a good, heavy tombstone put on the top of him, and then you may say
what you will with impunity.

"But I have read somewhere in an old book that there is a day coming when all wrongs will be
righted; and I should not wonder if then the dead were vindicated, and all the swine who have
uprooted graveyards should, like their ancestors of Gadara, run down a steep place into the
sea and get choked. The fact that there are now alive men so debauched of mind and soul that
they rejoice in mauling the reputation of those who spent their lives in illustrious achievement
for God and their country, and then died as martyrs for their principles, makes me believe
in eternal damnation."

With this last sentence my friend Leatherbacks gave a violent gesture that upset his cup and
left the table-cloth sopping wet.

"By the way," said he, "have you heard that Odger is coming?"

"What!" said I. He continued without looking up, for he was at that moment running his knife,
not over-sharp, through a lamb-chop made out of old sheep. (Wife, we will have to change our
butcher!) He continued with a severity perhaps partly caused by the obstinacy of the meat:
"I see in the 'Pall-Mall Budget' the startling intelligence that Mr. Odger is coming to the
United States on a lecturing expedition. Our American newspapers do not seem, as yet, to have
got hold of this news, but the tidings will soon fly, and great excitement may be expected
to follow."

Some unwise person might ask the foolish question, "Who is Odger?" I hope, however, that such
inquiry will not be made, for I would be compelled to say that I do not know. Whether he is
a clergyman or a reformer, or an author, or all these in one, we cannot say. Suffice it he
is a foreigner, and that is enough to make us all go wild. A foreigner does not need more than
half as much brain or heart to do twice as well as an American, either at preaching or lecturing.
There is for many Americans a bewitchment in a foreign brogue. I do not know but that he may
have dined with the queen, or have a few drops of lordly blood distributed through his arteries.

I notice, however, that much of this charm has been broken. I used to think that all English
lords were talented, till I heard one of them make the only poor speech that was made at the
opening meeting of the Evangelical Alliance. Our lecturing committees would not pay very large
prices next year for Mr. Bradlaugh and Edmund Yates. Indeed, we expect that the time will soon
come when the same kind of balances will weigh Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, Frenchmen and
Americans.

If a man can do anything well, he will be acceptable without reference to whether he was born
by the Clyde, the Thames, the Seine, or the Hudson. But until those scales be lifted it is
sufficient to announce the joyful tidings that "Odger is coming."

CHAPTER VIII.

THE HOT AXLE.

The express train was flying from Cork to Queenstown. It was going like sixty--that is, about
sixty miles an hour. No sight of an Irish village to arrest our speed, no sign of break-down,
and yet the train halted. We looked out of the window, saw the brakemen and a crowd of passengers
gathering around the locomotive and a dense smoke arising. What was the matter? A hot axle!

We were on the lightning train for Cleveland. We had no time to spare. If we stopped for a
half hour we should be greeted by the anathema of a lecturing committee. We felt a sort of
presentiment that we should be too late, when to confirm it the whistle blew, and the brakes
fell, and the cry all along the train was, "What is the matter?" Answer: "A hot axle!" The
wheels had been making too many revolutions in a minute. The car was on fire. It was a very
difficult thing to put it out; water, sand and swabs were tried, and caused long detention
and a smoke that threatened flame down to the end of the journey.

We thought then, and think now, this is what is the matter with people everywhere. In this
swift, "express," American life, we go too fast for our endurance. We think ourselves getting
on splendidly, when in the midst of our successes we come to a dead halt. What is the matter?
Nerves or muscles or brains give out. We have made too many revolutions in an hour. A hot axle!

Men make the mistake of working according to their opportunities, and not according to their
capacity of endurance. "Can I run this train from Springfield to Boston at the rate of fifty
miles an hour?" says an engineer. Yes. "Then I will run it reckless of consequences." Can I
be a merchant, and the president of a bank, and a director in a life insurance company, and
a school commissioner, and help edit a paper, and supervise the politics of our ward, and run
for Congress? "I can!" the man says to himself. The store drives him; the school drives him;
politics drive him. He takes all the scoldings and frets and exasperations of each position.
Some day at the height of the business season he does not come to the store; from the most
important meetings of the bank directors he is absent. In the excitements of the political
canvass he fails to be at the place appointed. What is the matter? His health has broken down.
The train halts long before it gets to the station. A hot axle!

Literary men have great opportunities opening in this day. If they take all that open, they
are dead men, or worse, living men who ought to be dead. The pen runs so easy when you have
good ink, and smooth paper, and an easy desk to write on, and the consciousness of an audience
of one, two or three hundred thousand readers. There are the religious newspapers through which
you preach, and the musical journals through which you may sing, and the agricultural periodicals
through which you can plough, and family newspapers in which you may romp with the whole household
around the evening stand. There are critiques to be written, and reviews to be indulged in,
and poems to be chimed, and novels to be constructed. When out of a man's pen he can shake
recreation, and friendship, and usefulness, and bread, he is apt to keep it shaking. So great
are the invitations to literary work that the professional men of the day are overcome. They
sit faint and fagged out on the verge of newspapers and books. Each one does the work of three,
and these men sit up late nights, and choke down chunks of meat without mastication, and scold
their wives through irritability, and maul innocent authors, and run the physical machinery
with a liver miserably given out. The driving shaft has gone fifty times a second. They stop
at no station. The steam-chest is hot and swollen. The brain and the digestion begin to smoke.
Stop, ye flying quills! "Down brakes!" A hot axle!

Some of the worst tempered people of the day are religious people, from the fact that they
have no rest. Added to the necessary work of the world, they superintend two Sunday-schools,
listen to two sermons, and every night have meetings of charitable and Christian institutions.
They look after the beggars, hold conventions, speak at meetings, wait on ministers, serve
as committeemen, take all the hypercriticisms that inevitably come to earnest workers, rush
up and down the world and develop their hearts at the expense of all the other functions. They
are the best men on earth, and Satan knows it, and is trying to kill them as fast as possible.
They know not that it is as much a duty to take care of their health as to go to the sacrament.
It is as much a sin to commit suicide with the sword of truth as with a pistol.

Our earthly life is a treasure to be guarded, it is an outrageous thing to die when we ought
to live. There is no use in firing up a Cunarder to such a speed that the boiler bursts mid-Atlantic,
when at a more moderate rate it might have reached the docks at Liverpool. It is a sin to try
to do the work of thirty years in five years.

A Rocky Mountain locomotive engineer told us that at certain places they change locomotives
and let the machine rest, as a locomotive always kept in full heat soon got out of order. Our
advice to all overworked good people is, "Slow up!" Slacken your speed as you come to the crossings.
All your faculties for work at this rate will be consumed. You are on fire now--see the premonitory
smoke. A hot axle!

Some of our young people have read till they are crazed of learned blacksmiths who at the forge
conquered thirty languages, and of shoemakers who, pounding sole-leather, got to be philosophers,
and of milliners who, while their customers were at the glass trying on their spring hats,
wrote a volume of first-rate poems. The fact is no blacksmith ought to be troubled with more
than five languages; and instead of shoemakers becoming philosophers, we would like to turn
our surplus of philosophers into shoemakers; and the supply of poetry is so much greater than
the demand that we wish milliners would stick to their business. Extraordinary examples of
work and endurance may do as much harm as good. Because Napoleon slept only three hours a night,
hundreds of students have tried the experiment; but instead of Austerlitz and Saragossa, there
came of it only a sick headache and a botch of a recitation. We are told of how many books
a man can read in the five spare minutes before breakfast, and the ten minutes at noon, but
I wish some one could tell us how much rest a man can get in fifteen minutes after dinner,
or how much health in an hour's horseback ride, or how much fun in a Saturday afternoon of
cricket. He who has such an idea of the value of time that he takes none of it for rest wastes
all his time.

Most Americans do not take time for sufficient sleep. We account for our own extraordinary
health by the fact that we are fanatics on the subject of sleep. We differ from our friend
Napoleon Bonaparte in one respect: we want nine hours' sleep, and we take it--eight hours at
night and one hour in the day. If we miss our allowance one week, as we often do, we make it
up the next week or the next month. We have sometimes been twenty-one hours in arrearages.
We formerly kept a memorandum of the hours for sleep lost. We pursued those hours till we caught
them. If at the beginning of our summer vacation we are many hours behind in slumber, we go
down to the sea-shore or among the mountains and sleep a month. If the world abuses us at any
time, we go and take an extra sleep; and when we wake up, all the world is smiling on us. If
we come to a knotty point in our discourse, we take a sleep; and when we open our eyes, the
opaque has become transparent. We split every day in two by a nap in the afternoon. Going to
take that somniferous interstice, we say to the servants, "Do not call me for anything. If
the house takes fire, first get the children out and my private papers; and when the roof begins
to fall in call me." Through such fanaticism we have thus far escaped the hot axle.

Somebody ought to be congratulated--I do not know who, and so I will shake hands all around--on
the fact that the health of the country seems improving. Whether Dio Lewis, with his gymnastic
clubs, has pounded to death American sickness, or whether the coming here of many English ladies
with their magnificent pedestrian habits, or whether the medicines in the apothecary shops
through much adulteration have lost their force, or whether the multiplication of bathtubs
has induced to cleanliness people who were never washed but once, and that just after their
arrival on this planet, I cannot say. But sure I am that I never saw so many bright, healthy-faced
people as of late.

Our maidens have lost the languor they once cultivated, and walk the street with stout step,
and swing the croquet mallet with a force that sends the ball through two arches, cracking
the opposing ball with great emphasis. Our daughters are not ashamed to culture flower beds,
and while they plant the rose in the ground a corresponding rose blooms in their own cheek.

But we need another proclamation of emancipation. The human locomotive goes too fast. Cylinder,
driving-boxes, rock-shaft, truck and valve-gear need to "slow up." Oh! that some strong hand
would unloose the burdens from our over-tasked American life, that there might be fewer bent
shoulders, and pale cheeks, and exhausted lungs, and quenched eyes, the law, and medicine,
and theology less frequently stopped in their glorious progress, because of the hot axle!

CHAPTER IX.

BEEFSTEAK FOR MINISTERS.

There have been lately several elaborate articles remarking upon what they call the lack of
force and fire in the clergy. The world wonders that, with such a rousing theme as the gospel,
and with such a grand work as saving souls, the ministry should ever be nerveless. Some ascribe
it to lack of piety, and some to timidity of temperament. We believe that in a great number
of cases it is from the lack of nourishing food. Many of the clerical brotherhood are on low
diet. After jackets and sacks have been provided for the eight or ten children of the parsonage,
the father and mother must watch the table with severest economy. Coming in suddenly upon the
dinner-hour of the country clergyman, the housewife apologizes for what she calls "a picked-up"
dinner, when, alas! it is nearly always picked up.

Congregations sometimes mourn over dull preaching when themselves are to blame. Give your minister
more beefsteak and he will have more fire. Next to the divine unction, the minister needs blood;
and he cannot make that out of tough leather. One reason why the apostles preached so powerfully
was that they had healthy food. Fish was cheap along Galilee, and this, with unbolted bread,
gave them plenty of phosphorus for brain food. These early ministers were never invited out
to late suppers, with chicken salad and doughnuts. Nobody ever embroidered slippers for the
big foot of Simon Peter, the fisherman preacher. Tea parties, with hot waffles, at ten o'clock
at night, make namby-pamby ministers; but good hours and substantial diet, that furnish nitrates
for the muscles, and phosphates for the brain, and carbonates for the whole frame, prepare
a man for effective work. When the water is low, the mill-wheel goes slow; but a full race,
and how fast the grists are ground! In a man the arteries are the mill-race and the brain the
wheel, and the practical work of life is the grist ground. The reason our soldiers failed in
some of the battles was because their stomachs had for several days been innocent of everything
but "hard tack." See that your minister has a full haversack. Feed him on gruel during the
week and on Sunday he will give you gruel. What is called the "parson's nose" in a turkey or
fowl is an allegory setting forth that in many communities the minister comes out behind.

Eight hundred or a thousand dollars for a minister is only a slow way of killing him, and is
the worst style of homicide. Why do not the trustees and elders take a mallet or an axe, and
with one blow put him out of his misery? The damage begins in the college boarding house. The
theological student has generally small means, and he must go to a cheap boarding house. A
frail piece of sausage trying to swim across a river of gravy on the breakfast plate, but drowned
at last, "the linked sweetness long drawn out" of flies in the molasses cup, the gristle of
a tough ox, and measly biscuit, and buckwheat cakes tough as the cook's apron, and old peas
in which the bugs lost their life before they had time to escape from the saucepan, and stale
cucumbers cut up into small slices of cholera morbus,--are the provender out of which we are
trying at Princeton and Yale and New Brunswick to make sons of thunder. Sons of mush! From
such depletion we step gasping into the pulpit, and look so heavenly pale that the mothers
in Israel are afraid we will evaporate before we get through our first sermon.

Many of our best young men in preparation for the ministry are going through this martyrdom.
The strongest mind in our theological class perished, the doctors said afterward from lack
of food. The only time he could afford a doctor was for his post-mortem examination.

I give the financial condition of many of our young theological students when I say:

  Income                                $250 00
  Outgo:
    Board at $3 per week (cheap place)   156 00
    Clothing (shoddy)                    100 00
    Books (no morocco)                    25 00
    Traveling expenses                    20 00

      Total                             $301 00

Here you see a deficit of fifty-one dollars. As there are no "stealings" in a theological seminary,
he makes up the balance by selling books or teaching school. He comes into life cowed down,
with a patch on both knees and several other places, and a hat that has been "done over" four
or five times, and so weak that the first sharp wind that whistles round the corner blows him
into glory. The inertness you complain of in the ministry starts early. Do you suppose that
if Paul had spent seven years in a cheap boarding house, and the years after in a poorly-supplied
parsonage, he would have made Felix tremble? No! The first glance of the Roman procurator would
have made him apologize for intrusion.

Do not think that all your eight-hundred-dollar minister needs is a Christmas present of an
elegantly-bound copy of "Calvin's Institutes." He is sound already on the doctrine of election,
and it is a poor consolation if in this way you remind him that he has been foreordained to
starve to death. Keep your minister on artichokes and purslain, and he will be fit to preach
nothing but funeral sermons from the text "All flesh is grass." While feeling most of all our
need of the life that comes from above, let us not ignore the fact that many of the clergy
to-day need more gymnastics, more fresh air, more nutritious food. Prayer cannot do the work
of beefsteak. You cannot keep a hot fire in the furnace with poor fuel and the damper turned.

CHAPTER X.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF AN OLD PAIR OF SCISSORS.

I was born in Sheffield, England, at the close of the last century, and was, like all those
who study Brown's Shorter Catechism, made out of dust. My father was killed at Herculaneum
at the time of the accident there, and buried with other scissors and knives and hooks and
swords. On my mother's side I am descended from a pair of shears that came to England during
the Roman invasion. My cousin hung to the belt of a duchess. My uncle belonged to Hampton Court,
and used to trim the king's hair. I came to the United States while the grandfathers of the
present generation of children were boys.

When I was young I was a gay fellow--indeed, what might have been called "a perfect blade."
I look old and rusty hanging here on the nail, but take me down, and though my voice is a little
squeaky with old age, I can tell you a pretty tale. I am sharper than I look. Old scissors
know more than you think. They say I am a little garrulous, and perhaps I may tell things I
ought not.

I helped your grandmother prepare for her wedding. I cut out and fitted all the apparel of
that happy day. I hear her scold the young folks now for being so dressy, but I can tell you
she was once that way herself. Did not I, sixty years ago, lie on the shelf and laugh as I
saw her stand by the half hour before the glass, giving an extra twist to her curl and an additional
dash of white powder on her hair--now fretted because the powder was too thick, now fretted
because it was too thin? She was as proud in cambric and calico and nankeen as Harriet is to-day
in white tulle and organdy. I remember how careful she was when she ran me along the edges
of the new dress. With me she clipped and notched and gored and trimmed, and day and night
I went click! click! click! and it seemed as if she would never let me rest from cutting.

I split the rags for the first carpet on the old homestead, and what a merry time we had when
the neighbors came to "the quilting!" I lay on the coverlet that was stretched across the quilting-frame
and heard all the gossip of 1799. Reputations were ripped and torn just as they are now. Fashions
were chattered about, the coalscuttle bonnet of some offensive neighbor (who was not invited
to the quilting) was criticised, and the suspicion started that she laced too tight; and an
old man who happened to have the best farm in the county was overhauled for the size of his
knee-buckles, and the exorbitant ruffles on his shirt, and the costly silk lace to his hat.
I lay so still that no one supposed I was listening. I trembled on the coverlet with rage and
wished that I could clip the end of their tattling tongues, but found no chance for revenge,
till, in the hand of a careless neighbor, I notched and nearly spoiled the patch-work.

Yes, I am a pair of old scissors. I cut out many a profile of old-time faces, and the white
dimity bed curtains. I lay on the stand when your grandparents were courting--for that had
to be done then as well as now--and it was the same story of chairs wide apart, and chairs
coming nearer, and arm over the back of the chair, and late hours, and four or five gettings
up to go with the determination to stay, protracted interviews on the front steps, blushes
and kisses. Your great-grandmother, out of patience at the lateness of the hour, shouted over
the banister to your immediate grandmother, "Mary! come to bed!" Because the old people sit
in the corner looking so very grave, do not suppose their eyes were never roguish, nor their
lips ruby, nor their hair flaxen, nor their feet spry, nor that they always retired at half-past
eight o'clock at night. After a while, I, the scissors, was laid on the shelf, and finally
thrown into a box among nails and screws and files. Years of darkness and disgrace for a scissors
so highly born as I. But one day I was hauled out. A bell tinkled in the street. An Italian
scissors-grinder wanted a job. I was put upon the stone, and the grinder put his foot upon
the treadle, and the bands pulled, and the wheel sped, and the fire flew, and it seemed as
if, in the heat and pressure and agony, I should die. I was ground, and rubbed, and oiled,
and polished, till I glittered in the sun; and one day, when young Harriet was preparing for
the season, I plunged into the fray. I almost lost my senses among the ribbons, and flew up
and down among the flounces, and went mad amongst the basques. I move round as gay as when
I was young; and modern scissors, with their stumpy ends, and loose pivots, and weak blades,
and glaring bows, and course shanks, are stupid beside an old family piece like me. You would
be surprised how spry I am flying around the sewing-room, cutting corsage into heart-shape,
and slitting a place for button holes, and making double-breasted jackets, and hollowing scallops,
and putting the last touches on velvet arabesques and Worth overskirts. I feel almost as well
at eighty years of age as at ten, and I lie down to sleep at night amid all the fineries of
the wardrobe, on olive-green cashmere, and beside pannier puffs, and pillowed on feathers of
ostrich.

Oh! what a gay life the scissors live! I may lie on gayest lady's lap, and little children
like me better than almost anything else to play with. The trembling octogenarian takes me
by the hand, and the rollicking four-year-old puts on me his dimpled fingers. Mine are the
children's curls and the bride's veil. I am welcomed to the Christmas tree, and the sewing-machine,
and the editor's table. I have cut my way through the ages. Beside pen, and sword, and needle,
I dare to stand anywhere, indispensable to the race, the world-renowned scissors!

But I had a sad mission once. The bell tolled in the New England village because a soul had
passed. I sat up all the night cutting the pattern for a shroud. Oh, it was gloomy work. There
was wailing in the house, but I could not stop to mourn. I had often made the swaddling-clothes
for a child, but that was the only time I fashioned a robe for the grave. To fit it around
the little neck, and make the sleeves just long enough for the quiet arms--it hurt me more
than the tilt hammers that smote me in Sheffield, than the files of the scissors-grinder at
the door. I heard heart-strings snap as I went through the linen, and in the white pleats to
be folded over the still heart I saw the snow banked on a grave. Give me, the old scissors,
fifty bridal dresses to make rather than one shroud to prepare.

I never recovered from the chill of those dismal days, but at the end of life I can look back
and feel that I have done my work well. Other scissors have frayed and unraveled the garments
they touched, but I have always made a clean path through the linen or the damask I was called
to divide. Others screeched complainingly at their toil; I smoothly worked my jaws. Many of
the fingers that wrought with me have ceased to open and shut, and my own time will soon come
to die, and I shall be buried in a grave of rust amid cast-off tenpenny nails and horse-shoes.
But I have stayed long enough to testify, first, that these days are no worse than the old
ones, the granddaughter now no more proud than the grandmother was; secondly, that we all need
to be hammered and ground in order to take off the rust; and thirdly, that an old scissors,
as well as an old man, may be scoured up and made practically useful.

CHAPTER XI.

A LIE, ZOOLOGICALLY CONSIDERED.

We stand agape in the British Museum, looking at the monstrous skeletons of the mastodon, megatherium
and iguanodon, and conclude that all the great animals thirty feet long and eleven feet high
are extinct.

Now, while we do not want to frighten children or disturb nervous people, we have to say that
the other day we caught a glimpse of a monster beside which the lizards of the saurian era
were short, and the elephants of the mammalian period were insignificant. We saw it in full
spring, and on the track of its prey. Children would call the creature "a fib;" rough persons
would term it "a whopper;" polite folks would say it was "a fabrication;" but plain and unscientific
people would style it "a lie." Naturalists might assign it to the species "Tigris regalis,"
or "Felis pardus."

We do not think that anatomical and zoological justice has been done to the lie. It is to be
found in all zones. Livingstone saw it in Central Africa; Dr. Kane found it on an iceberg beside
a polar bear; Agassiz discovered it in Brazil. It thrives about as well in one clime as another,
with perhaps a little preference for the temperate zone. It lives on berries, or bananas, or
corn, grapes, or artichokes; drinks water, or alcohol, or tea. It eats up a great many children,
and would have destroyed the boy who afterward became the father of his country had he not
driven it back with his hatchet. (See the last two hundred Sunday-school addresses.)

The first peculiarity of this Tigris regalis or Felis pardus, commonly called a lie, is its

LONGEVITY.

If it once get born, it lives on almost interminably. Sometimes it has followed a man for ten,
twenty or forty years, and has been as healthy in its last leap as in the first. It has run
at every president from General Washington to General Grant, and helped kill Horace Greeley.
It has barked at every good man since Adam, and every good woman since Eve, and every good
boy since Abel, and every good cow since Pharaoh's lean kine. Malarias do not poison it, nor
fires burn it, nor winters freeze it. Just now it is after your neighbor; to-morrow it will
be after you. It is the healthiest of all monsters. Its tooth knocks out the "tooth of time."
Its hair never turns white with age, nor does it limp with decrepitude. It is distinguished
for its longevity.

THE LENGTH OF ITS LEGS.

It keeps up with the express train, and is present at the opening and the shutting of the mailbags.
It takes a morning run from New York to San Francisco or over to London before breakfast. It
can go a thousand miles at a jump. It would despise seven-league boots as tedious. A telegraph
pole is just knee-high to this monster, and from that you can judge its speed of locomotion.
It never gets out of wind, carries a bag of reputations made up in cold hash, so that it does
not have to stop for victuals. It goes so fast that sometimes five million people have seen
it the same morning.

KEENNESS OF NOSTRIL.

It can smell a moral imperfection fifty miles away. The crow has no faculty compared with this
for finding carrion. It has scented something a hundred miles off, and before night "treed"
its game. It has a great genius for smelling. It can find more than is actually there. When
it begins to snuff the air, you had better look out. It has great length and breadth and depth,
and height of nose.

ACUTENESS OF EAR.

The rabbit has no such power to listen as this creature we speak of. It hears all the sounds
that come from five thousand keyholes. It catches a whisper from the other side the room, and
can understand the scratch of a pen. It has one ear open toward the east and the other toward
the west, and hears everything in both directions. All the tittle-tattle of the world pours
into those ears like vinegar through a funnel. They are always up and open, and to them a meeting
of the sewing society is a jubilee and a political campaign is heaven.

SIZE OF THROAT.

The snake has hard work to choke down a toad, and the crocodile has a mighty struggle to take
in the calf; but the monster of which I speak can swallow anything. It has a throat bigger
than the whale that took down the minister who declined the call to Nineveh, and has swallowed
whole presbyteries and conferences of clergymen. A Brobdingnagian goes down as easily as a
Liliputian. The largest story about business dishonor, or female frailty, or political deception,
slips through with the ease of a homoeopathic pellet. Its throat is sufficient for anything
round, or square, or angular, or octagonal.

Nothing in all the earth is too big for its mastication and digestion save the truth, and that
will stick in its gullet.

IT IS GREGARIOUS.

It goes in a flock with others of its kind. If one takes after a man or woman, there are at
least ten in its company. As soon as anything bad is charged against a man, there are many
others who know things just as deleterious. Lies about himself, lies about his wife, lies about
his children, lies about his associates, lies about his house, lies about his barn, lies about
his store--swarms of them, broods of them, herds of them. Kill one of them, and there will
be twelve alive to act as its pall-bearers, another to preach its funeral sermon, and still
another to write its obituary.

These monsters beat all the extinct species. They are white, spotted and black. They have a
sleek hide, a sharp claw and a sting in their tail. They prowl through every street of the
city, craunch in the restaurants, sleep in the hall of Congress, and in grandest parlor have
one paw under the piano, another under the sofa, one by the mantel and the other on the door-sill.

Now, many people spend half their time in hunting lies. You see a man rushing anxiously about
to correct a newspaper paragraph, or a husband, with fist clenched, on the way to pound some
one who has told a false thing about his wife. There is a woman on the next street who heard,
last Monday, a falsehood about her husband, and has had her hat and shawl on ever since in
the effort to correct wrong impressions. Our object in this zoological sketch of a lie is to
persuade you of the folly of such a hunting excursion. If these monsters have such long legs,
and go a hundred miles at a jump, you might as well give up the chase. If they have such keenness
of nostril, they can smell you across the State, and get out of your way. If they have such
long ears, they can hear the hunter's first step in the woods. If they have such great throats,
they can swallow you at a gape. If they are gregarious, while you shoot one, forty will run
upon you like mad buffaloes, and trample you to death. Arrows bound back from their thick hide;
and as for gunpowder, they use it regularly for pinches of snuff. After a shower of bullets
has struck their side, they lift their hind foot to scratch the place, supposing a black fly
has been biting. Henry the Eighth, in a hawking party, on foot, attempted to leap a ditch in
Hertfordshire, and with his immense avoirdupois weight went splashing into the mud and slime,
and was hauled out by his footman half dead. And that is the fate of men who spend their time
hunting for lies. Better go to your work, and let the lies run. Their bloody muzzles have tough
work with a man usefully busy. You cannot so easily overcome them with sharp retort as with
adze and yardstick. All the howlings of Californian wolves at night do not stop the sun from
kindling victorious morn on the Sierra Nevadas, and all the ravenings of defamation and revenge
cannot hinder the resplendent dawn of heaven on a righteous soul.

But they who spend their time in trying to lasso and decapitate a lie will come back worsted,
as did the English cockneys from a fox chase described in the poem entitled "Pills to Purge
Melancholy:"

  "And when they had done their sport, they came to London, where they dwell,
  Their faces all so torn and scratched their wives scarce knew them well;
  For 'twas a very great mercy so many 'scaped alive,
  For of twenty saddles carried out, they brought again but five."

CHAPTER XII.

A BREATH OF ENGLISH AIR.

My friend looked white as the wall, flung the "London Times" half across the room, kicked one
slipper into the air and shouted, "Talmage, where on earth did you come from?" as one summer
I stepped into his English home. "Just come over the ferry to dine with you," I responded.
After some explanation about the health of my family, which demanded a sea voyage, and thus
necessitated my coming, we planned two or three excursions.

At eight o'clock in the morning we gathered in the parlor in the Red Horse Hotel, at Stratford-on-Avon.
Two pictures of Washington Irving, the chair in which the father of American literature sat,
and the table on which he wrote, immortalizing his visit to that hotel, adorn the room. From
thence we sallied forth to see the clean, quaint village of Stratford. It was built just to
have Shakspeare born in. We have not heard that there was any one else ever born there, before
or since. If, by any strange possibility, it could be proved that the great dramatist was born
anywhere else, it would ruin all the cab drivers, guides and hostelries of the place.

We went of course to the house where Shakspeare first appeared on the stage of life, and enacted
the first act of his first play. Scene the first. Enter John Shakspeare, the father; Mrs. Shakspeare,
the mother, and the old nurse, with young William.

A very plain house it is. Like the lark, which soars highest, but builds its nest lowest, so
with genius; it has humble beginnings. I think ten thousand dollars would be a large appraisement
for all the houses where the great poets were born. But all the world comes to this lowly dwelling.
Walter Scott was glad to scratch his name on the window, and you may see it now. Charles Dickens,
Edmund Kean, Albert Smith, Mark Lemon and Tennyson, so very sparing of their autographs, have
left their signatures on the wall. There are the jambs of the old fire-place where the poet
warmed himself and combed wool, and began to think for all time. Here is the chair in which
he sat while presiding at the club, forming habits of drink which killed him at the last, his
own life ending in a tragedy as terrible as any he ever wrote. Exeunt wine-bibbers, topers,
grogshop keepers, Drayton, Ben Jonson and William Shakspeare. Here also is the letter which
Richard Quyney sent to Shakspeare, asking to borrow thirty pounds. I hope he did not loan it;
for if he did, it was a dead loss.

We went to the church where the poet is buried. It dates back seven hundred years, but has
been often restored. It has many pictures, and is the sleeping place of many distinguished
dead; but one tomb within the chancel absorbs all the attention of the stranger.

Under such anathema the body has slept securely. A sexton once looked in at the bones, but
did not dare to touch them, lest his "quietus" should be made with a bare bodkin.

From the church door we mounted our carriage; and crossing the Avon on a bridge which the lord
mayor of London built four hundred years ago, we start on one of the most memorable rides of
our life. The country looked fresh and luxuriant from recent rains. The close-trimmed hedges,
the sleek cattle, the snug cottages, the straggling villages with their historic inns, the
castle from whose park Shakspeare stole the deer, the gate called "Shakspeare's stile," curious
in the fact that it looks like ordinary bars of fence, but as you attempt to climb over, the
whole thing gives way, and lets you fall flat, righting itself as soon as it is unburdened
of you; the rabbits darting along the hedges, undisturbed, because it is unlawful, save for
licensed hunters, to shoot, and then not on private property; the perfect weather, the blue
sky, the exhilarating breeze, the glorious elms and oaks by the way,--make it a day that will
live when most other days are dead.

At two o'clock we came in sight of Kenilworth Castle. Oh, this is the place to stir the blood.
It is the king of ruins. Warwick is nothing; Melrose is nothing, compared with it. A thousand
great facts look out through the broken windows. Earls and kings and queens sit along the shattered
sides of the banqueting halls. The stairs are worn deep with the feet that have clambered them
for eight hundred years. As a loving daughter arranges the dress of an old man, so every season
throws a thick mantle of ivy over the mouldering wall. The roof that caught and echoed back
the merriment of dead ages has perished. Time has struck his chisel into every inch of the
structure. By the payment of only three-pence you find access to places where only the titled
were once permitted to walk. You go in, and are overwhelmed with the thoughts of past glory
and present decay. These halls were promenaded by Richard Coeur de Lion; in this chapel burned
the tomb lights over the grave of Geoffrey de Clinton; in these dungeons kings groaned; in
these doorways duchesses fainted. Scene of gold, and silver, and scroll work, and chiseled
arch, and mosaic. Here were heard the carousals of the Round Table; from those very stables
the caparisoned horses came prancing out for the tournament; through that gateway strong, weak,
heroic, mean, splendid, Queen Elizabeth advanced to the castle, while the waters of the lake
gleamed under torchlights, and the battlements were aflame with rockets; and cornet, and hautboy,
and trumpet poured their music on the air; and goddesses glided out from the groves to meet
her; and from turret to foundation Kenilworth trembled under a cannonade, and for seventeen
days, at a cost of five thousand dollars a day, the festival was kept. Four hundred servants
standing in costly livery; sham battles between knights on horseback; jugglers tumbling on
the grass; thirteen bears baited for the amusement of the guests; three hundred and twenty
hogsheads of beer consumed, till all Europe applauded, denounced and stood amazed.

Where is the glory now? What has become of the velvet? Who wears the jewels? Would Amy Robsart
have so longed to get into the castle had she known its coming ruin? Where are those who were
waited on, and those who waited? What has become of Elizabeth, the visitor, and Robert Dudley,
the visited? Cromwell's men dashed upon the scene; they drained the lakes; they befouled the
banquet hall; they dismantled the towers; they turned the castle into a tomb, on whose scarred
and riven sides ambition and cruelty and lust may well read their doom. "So let all thine enemies
perish, O Lord; but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might."

CHAPTER XIII.

THE MIDNIGHT LECTURE.

At eight o'clock precisely, on consecutive nights, we stepped on the rostrum at Chicago, Zanesville.
Indianapolis, Detroit, Jacksonville, Cleveland and Buffalo. But it seemed that Dayton was to
be a failure. We telegraphed from Indianapolis, "Missed connection. Cannot possibly meet engagement
at Dayton." Telegram came back saying, "Take a locomotive and come on!" We could not get a
locomotive. Another telegram arrived: "Mr. Gale, the superintendent of railroad, will send
you in an extra train. Go immediately to the depot!" We gathered up our traps from the hotel
floor and sofa, and hurled them at the satchel. They would not go in. We put a collar in our
hat, and the shaving apparatus in our coat pocket; got on the satchel with both feet, and declared
the thing should go shut if it split everything between Indianapolis and Dayton. Arriving at
the depot, the train was ready. We had a locomotive and one car. There were six of us on the
train--namely, the engineer and stoker on the locomotive; while following were the conductor,
a brakeman at each end of the car, and the pastor of a heap of ashes on Schermerhorn street,
Brooklyn. "When shall we get to Dayton?" we asked. "Half-past nine o'clock!" responded the
conductor. "Absurd!" we said; "no audience will wait till half-past nine at night for a lecturer."

Away we flew. The car, having such a light load, frisked and kicked, and made merry of a journey
that to us was becoming very grave. Going round a sharp curve at break-neck speed, we felt
inclined to suggest to the conductor that it would make no especial difference if we did not
get to Dayton till a quarter to ten. The night was cold, and the hard ground thundered and
cracked. The bridges, instead of roaring, as is their wont, had no time to give any more than
a grunt as we struck them and passed on. At times it was so rough we were in doubt as to whether
we were on the track or taking a short cut across the field to get to our destination a little
sooner. The flagmen would hastily open their windows and look at the screeching train. The
whistle blew wildly, not so much to give the villages warning as to let them know that something
terrible had gone through. Stopped to take in wood and water. A crusty old man crawled out
of a depot, and said to the engineer, "Jim, what on earth is the matter?" "Don't know," said
Jim; "that fellow in the car yonder is bound to get to Dayton, and we are putting things through."
Brakes lifted, bell rung, and off again. Amid the rush and pitch of the train there was no
chance to prepare our toilet, and no looking-glass, and it was quite certain that we would
have to step from the train immediately into the lecturing hall. We were unfit to be seen.
We were sure our hair was parted in five or six different places, and that the cinders had
put our face in mourning, and that something must be done. What time we could spare from holding
on to the bouncing seat we gave to our toilet, and the arrangements we made, though far from
satisfactory, satisfied our conscience that we had done what we could. A button broke as we
were fastening our collar--indeed, a button always does break when you are in a hurry and nobody
to sew it on. "How long before we get there?" we anxiously asked. "I have miscalculated," said
the conductor; "we cannot get there till five minutes of ten o'clock." "My dear man," I cried,
"you might as well turn round and go back; the audience will be gone long before ten o'clock."
"No!" said the conductor; "at the last depot I got a telegram saying they are waiting patiently,
and telling us to hurry on." The locomotive seemed to feel it was on the home stretch. At times,
what with the whirling smoke and the showering sparks, and the din, and rush, and bang, it
seemed as if we were on our last ride, and that the brakes would not fall till we stopped for ever.

At five minutes of ten o'clock we rolled into the Dayton depot, and before the train came to
a halt we were in a carriage with the lecturing committee, going at the horse's full run toward
the opera house. Without an instant in which to slacken our pulses, the chairman rushed in
upon the stage, and introduced the lecturer of the evening. After in the quickest way shedding
overcoat and shawl, we confronted the audience, and with our head yet swimming from the motion
of the rail-train, we accosted the people--many of whom had been waiting since seven o'clock'--with
the words, "Long-suffering but patient ladies and gentlemen, you are the best-natured audience
I ever saw." When we concluded what we had to say, it was about midnight, and hence the title
of this little sketch.

We would have felt it more worthy of the railroad chase if it had been a sermon rather than
a lecture. Why do not the Young Men's Christian Associations of the country intersperse religious
discourses with the secular, the secular demanding an admission fee, the religious without
money or price? If such associations would take as fine a hall, and pay as much for advertising,
the audience to hear the sermon would be as large as the audience to hear the lecture. What
consecrated minister would not rather tell the story of Christ and heaven free of charge than
to get five hundred dollars for a secular address? Wake up, Young Men's Christian Associations,
to your glorious opportunity, it would afford a pleasing change. Let Wendell Phillips give
in the course his great lecture on "The Lost Arts;" and A.A. Willitts speak on "Sunshine,"
himself the best illustration of his subject; and Mr. Milburn, by "What a Blind Man Saw in
England," almost prove that eyes are a superfluity; and W.H.H. Murray talk of the "Adirondacks,"
till you can hear the rifle crack and the fall of the antlers on the rock. But in the very
midst of all this have a religious discourse that shall show that holiness is the lost art,
and that Christ is the sunshine, and that the gospel helps a blind man to see, and that from
Pisgah and Mount Zion there is a better prospect than from the top of fifty Adirondacks.

As for ourselves, save in rare and peculiar circumstances, good-bye to the lecturing platform,
while we try for the rest of our life to imitate the minister who said, "This one thing I do!"
There are exhilarations about lecturing that one finds it hard to break from, and many a minister
who thought himself reformed of lecturing has, over-tempted, gone up to the American Library
or Boston Lyceum Bureau, and drank down raw, a hundred lecturing engagements. Still, a man
once in a while finds a new pair of spectacles to look through.

Between Indianapolis and Dayton, on that wild, swift ride, we found a moral which we close
with--for the printer-boy with inky fingers is waiting for this paragraph--Never take the last
train when you can help it. Much of the trouble in life is caused by the fact that people,
in their engagements, wait til' the last minute. The seven-o'clock train will take them to
the right place if everything goes straight, but in this world things are very apt to go crooked.
So you had better take the train that starts an hour earlier. In everything we undertake let
us leave a little margin. We tried, jokingly, to persuade Captain Berry, when off Cape Hatteras,
to go down and get his breakfast, while we took his place and watched the course of the steamer.
He intimated to us that we were running too near the bar to allow a greenhorn to manage matters
just there. There is always danger in sailing near a coast, whether in ship or in plans and
morals. Do not calculate too closely on possibilities. Better have room and time to spare.
Do not take the last train. Not heeding this counsel makes bad work for this world and the
next. There are many lines of communication between earth and heaven. Men say they can start
at any time. After a while, in great excitement, they rush into the depot of mercy and find
that the final opportunity has left, and, behold! it is the last train!

CHAPTER XIV.

THE SEXTON.

King David, it is evident, once thought something of becoming a church sexton, for he said,
"I had rather be a doorkeeper," and so on. But he never carried out the plan, perhaps because
he had not the qualification. It requires more talent in some respects to be sexton than to
be king. A sexton, like a poet, is born. A church, in order to peace and success, needs the
right kind of man at the prow, and the right kind at the stern--that is, a good minister and
a good sexton. So far as we have observed, there are four kinds of janitors.

THE FIDGETY SEXTON.

He is never still. His being in any one place proves to him that he ought to be in some other.
In the most intense part of the service, every ear alert to the truth, the minister at the
very climax of his subject, the fidgety official starts up the aisle. The whole congregation
instantly turn from the consideration of judgment and eternity to see what the sexton wants.
The minister looks, the elders look, the people in the gallery get up to look. It is left in
universal doubt as to why the sexton frisked about at just that moment. He must have seen a
fly on the opposite side of the church wall that needed to be driven off before it spoiled
the fresco, or he may have suspicion that a rat terrier is in one of the pews by the pulpit,
from the fact that he saw two or three children laughing. Now, there is nothing more perplexing
than a dog chase during religious services. At a prayer meeting once in my house, a snarling
poodle came in, looked around, and then went and sat under the chair of its owner. We had no
objection to its being there (dogs should not be shut out from all advantages), but the intruder
would not keep quiet. A brother of dolorous whine was engaged in prayer, when poodle evidently
thought that the time for response had come, and gave a loud yawn that had no tendency to solemnize
the occasion. I resolved to endure it no longer. I started to extirpate the nuisance. I made
a fearful pass of my hand in the direction of the dog, but missed him. A lady arose to give
me a better chance at the vile pup, but I discovered that he had changed position. I felt by
that time obstinately determined to eject him. He had got under a rocking chair, at a point
beyond our reach, unless we got on our knees; and it being a prayer meeting, we felt no inappropriateness
in taking that position. Of course the exercise had meanwhile been suspended, and the eyes
of all were upon my undertaking. The elders wished me all success in this police duty, but
the mischievous lads by the door were hoping for my failure. Knowing this I resolved that if
the exercises were never resumed, I would consummate the work and eject the disturber. While
in this mood I gave a lunge for the dog, not looking to my feet, and fell over a rocker; but
there were sympathetic hands to help me up, and I kept on until by the back of the neck I grasped
the grizzly-headed pup, as he commenced kicking, scratching, barking, yelping, howling, and
carried him to the door in triumph, and, without any care as to where he landed, hurled him
out into the darkness.

Give my love to the sexton, and tell him never to chase a dog in religious service. Better
let it alone, though it should, like my friend's poll-parrot, during prayer time, break out
with the song, "I would not live alway!" But the fidgety sexton is ever on the chase; his boots
are apt to be noisy and say as he goes up the aisle, "Creakety-crack! Here I come. Creakety-crack!"
Why should he come in to call the doctor out of his pew when the case is not urgent? Cannot
the patient wait twenty minutes, or is this the cheap way the doctor has of advertising? Dr.
Camomile had but three cases in three months, and, strange coincidence, they all came to him
at half-past eleven o'clock Sunday morning, while he was in church. If windows are to be lowered,
or blinds closed, or register to be shut off, let it be before the sermon.

THE LAZY SEXTON.

He does not lead the stranger to the pew, but goes a little way on the aisle, and points, saying,
"Out yonder!" You leave the photograph of your back in the dust of the seat you occupy; the
air is in an atmospheric hash of what was left over last Sunday. Lack of oxygen will dull the
best sermon, and clip the wings of gladdest song, and stupefy an audience. People go out from
the poisoned air of our churches to die of pneumonia. What a sin, when there is so much fresh
air, to let people perish for lack of it! The churches are the worst ventilated buildings on
the continent. No amount of grace can make stale air sacred. "The prince of the power of the
air" wants nothing but poisoned air for the churches. After audiences have assembled, and their
cheeks are flushed, and their respiration has become painful, it is too late to change it.
Open a window or door now, and you ventilate only the top of that man's bald head, and the
back of the neck of that delicate woman, and you send off hundreds of people coughing and sneezing.
One reason why the Sabbaths are so wide apart is that every church building may have six days
of atmospheric purification. The best man's breath once ejected is not worth keeping. Our congregations
are dying of asphyxia. In the name of all the best interests of the church, I indict one-half
the sextons.

THE GOOD SEXTON.

He is the minister's blessing, the church's joy, a harbinger of the millennium. People come
to church to have him help them up the aisle. He wears slippers. He stands or sits at the end
of the church during an impressive discourse, and feels that, though he did not furnish the
ideas, he at least furnished the wind necessary in preaching it. He has a quick nostril to
detect unconsecrated odors, and puts the man who eats garlic on the back seat in the corner.
He does not regulate the heat by a broken thermometer, minus the mercury. He has the window
blinds arranged just right--the light not too glaring so as to show the freckles, nor too dark
so as to cast a gloom, but a subdued light that makes the plainest face attractive. He rings
the bell merrily for Christmas festival, and tolls it sadly for the departed. He has real pity
for the bereaved in whose house he goes for the purpose of burying their dead--not giving by
cold, professional manner the impression that his sympathy for the troubled is overpowered
by the joy that he has in selling another coffin. He forgets not his own soul; and though his
place is to stand at the door of the ark, it is surely inside of it. After a while, a Sabbath
comes when everything is wrong in church: the air is impure, the furnaces fail in their work,
and the eyes of the people are blinded with an unpleasant glare. Everybody asks, "Where is
our old sexton?" Alas! he will never come again. He has gone to join Obededom and Berechiah,
the doorkeepers of the ancient ark. He will never again take the dusting; whisk from the closet
under the church stairs, for it is now with him "Dust to dust."

CHAPTER XV.

THE OLD CRADLE.

The historic and old-time cradle is dead, and buried in the rubbish of the garret. A baby of
five months, filled with modern notions, would spurn to be rocked in the awkward and rustic
thing. The baby spits the "Alexandra feeding-bottle" out of its mouth, and protests against
the old-fashioned cradle, giving emphasis to its utterances by throwing down a rattle that
cost seven dollars, and kicking off a shoe imported at fabulous expense, and upsetting the
"baby-basket," with all its treasures of ivory hair brushes and "Meen Fun." Not with voice,
but by violence of gesture and kicks and squirms, it says: "What! You going to put me in that
old cradle? Where is the nurse? My patience! What does mother mean? Get me a 'patented self-rocker!'"

The parents yield. In comes the new-fangled crib. The machine is wound up, the baby put in,
the crib set in motion, and mother goes off to make a first-rate speech at the "Woman's Rights
Convention!"

Conundrum: Why is a maternal elocutionist of this sort like a mother of old time, who trained
four sons for the holy ministry, and through them was the means of reforming and saving a thousand
souls, and through that thousand of saving ten thousand more? You answer: "No resemblance at
all!" You are right. Guessed the conundrum the first time. Go up to the head of the class!

Now, the "patented self-rockers," no doubt, have their proper use; but go up with me into the
garret of your old homestead, and exhume the cradle that you, a good while ago, slept in. The
rockers are somewhat rough, as though a farmer's plane had fashioned them, and the sides just
high enough for a child to learn to walk by. What a homely thing, take it all in all! You say:
Stop your depreciation! We were all rocked in that. For about fifteen years that cradle was
going much of the time. When the older child was taken out, a smaller child was put in. The
crackle of the rockers is pleasant yet in my ears. There I took my first lessons in music as
mother sang to me. Have heard what you would call far better singing since then, but none that
so thoroughly touched me. She never got five hundred dollars per night for singing three songs
at the Academy, with two or three encores grudgefully thrown in; but without pay she sometimes
sang all night, and came out whenever encored, though she had only two little ears for an audience.
It was a low, subdued tone that sings to me yet across thirty-five years.

You see the edge of that rocker worn quite deep? That is where her foot was placed while she
sat with her knitting or sewing, on summer afternoons, while the bees hummed at the door and
the shout of the boy at the oxen was heard afield. From the way the rocker is worn, I think
that sometimes the foot must have been very tired and the ankle very sore; but I do not think
she stopped for that. When such a cradle as that got a-going, it kept on for years.

Scarlet-fever came in the door, and we all had it; and oh, how the cradle did go! We contended
as to who should lie in it, for sickness, you know, makes babies of us all. But after a while
we surrendered it to Charlie. He was too old to lie in it, but he seemed so very, very sick;
and with him in the cradle it was "Rock!" "Rock!" "Rock!" But one day, just as long ago as
you can remember, the cradle stopped. When a child is asleep, there is no need of rocking.
Charlie was asleep. He was sound asleep. Nothing would wake him. He needed taking up. Mother
was too weak to do it. The neighbors came in to do that, and put a flower, fresh out of the
garden-dew, between the two still hands. The fever had gone out of the cheek, and left it white,
very white--the rose exchanged for the lily. There was one less to contend for the cradle.
It soon started again, and with a voice not quite so firm as before, but more tender, the old
song came back: "Bye! bye! bye!" which meant more to you than "Il Trovatore," rendered by opera
troupe in the presence of an American audience, all leaning forward and nodding to show how
well they understood Italian.

There was a wooden canopy at the head of the old cradle that somehow got loose and was taken
off. But your infantile mind was most impressed with the face which much of the time hovered
over you. Other women sometimes looked in at the child, and said: "That child's hair will be
red!" or, "What a peculiar chin!" or, "Do you think that child will live to grow up?" and although
you were not old enough to understand their talk, by instinct you knew it was something disagreeable,
and began to cry till the dear, sweet, familiar face again hovered and the rainbow arched the
sky. Oh, we never get away from the benediction of such a face! It looks at us through storm
and night. It smiles all to pieces the world's frown. After thirty-five years of rough, tumbling
on the world's couch, it puts us in the cradle again, and hushes us as with the very lullaby
of heaven.

Let the old cradle rest in the garret. It has earned its quiet. The hands that shook up its
pillow have quit work. The foot that kept the rocker in motion is through with its journey.
The face that hovered has been veiled from mortal sight. Cradle of blessed memories! Cradle
that soothed so many little griefs! Cradle that kindled so many hopes! Cradle that rested so
many fatigues! Sleep now thyself, after so many years of putting others to sleep!

One of the great wants of the age is the right kind of a cradle and the right kind of a foot
to rock it. We are opposed to the usurpation of "patented self-rockers." When I hear a boy
calling his grandfather "old daddy," and see the youngster whacking his mother across the face
because she will not let him have ice-cream and lemonade in the same stomach, and at some refusal
holding his breath till he gets black in the face, so that to save the child from fits the
mother is compelled to give him another dumpling, and he afterward goes out into the world
stubborn, willful, selfish and intractable,--I say that boy was brought up in a "patented self-rocker."

When a mother, who ought to be most interested in training her children for usefulness and
heaven, gives her chief time to fixing up her back hair, and is worried to death because the
curls she bought are not of the same shade as the sparsely-settled locks of her own raising;
and culturing the dromedarian hump of dry-goods on her back till, as she comes into church,
a good old elder bursts into laughter behind his pocket-handkerchief, making the merriment
sound as much like a sneeze as possible; her waking moments employed with discussions about
polonaise, and vert-de-gris velvets, and ecru percale, and fringed guipure, and poufs, and
sashes, and rose-de-chêne silks, and scalloped flounces; her happiness in being admired at
balls and parties and receptions,--you may know that she has thrown off the care of her children,
that they are looking after themselves, that they are being brought up by machinery instead
of loving hands--in a word, that there is in her home a "patented self-rocker!"

So far as possible, let all women dress beautifully: so God dresses the meadows and the mountains.
Let them wear pearls and diamonds if they can afford it: God has hung round the neck of his
world strings of diamonds, and braided the black locks of the storm with bright ribbons of
rainbow. Especially before and right after breakfast, ere they expect to be seen of the world,
let them look neat and attractive for the family's sake. One of the most hideous sights is
a slovenly woman at the breakfast table. Let woman adorn herself. Let her speak on platforms
so far as she may have time and ability to do so. But let not mothers imagine that there is
any new way of successfully training children, or of escaping the old-time self-denial and
continuous painstaking.

Let this be the commencement of the law suit:

  OLD CRADLE
  versus
  PATENTED SELF-ROCKER.

Attorneys for plaintiff--all the cherished memories of the past.

Attorneys for the defendant--all the humbugs of the present.

For jury--the good sense of all Christendom.

Crier, open the court and let the jury be empaneled.

CHAPTER XVI.

A HORSE'S LETTER.

[TRANSLATED FOR THE TEA-TABLE.]

  Brooklyn Livery Stables,
  January 20, 1874.

  My dear Gentlemen and Ladies: I am aware that this is the first time a
  horse has ever taken upon himself to address any member of the human
  family. True, a second cousin of our household once addressed Balaam, but
  his voice for public speaking was so poor that he got unmercifully
  whacked, and never tried it again. We have endured in silence all the
  outrages of many thousands of years, but feel it now time to make
  remonstrance. Recent attentions have made us aware of our worth. During
  the epizoötic epidemic we had at our stables innumerable calls from
  doctors and judges and clergymen. Everybody asked about our health.
  Groomsmen bathed our throats, and sat up with us nights, and furnished us
  pocket-handkerchiefs. For the first time in years we had quiet Sundays.
  We overheard a conversation that made us think that the commerce and the
  fashion of the world waited the news from the stable. Telegraphs
  announced our condition across the land and under the sea, and we came to
  believe that this world was originally made for the horse, and man for
  his groom.

  But things are going back again to where they were. Yesterday I was
  driven fifteen miles, jerked in the mouth, struck on the back, watered
  when I was too warm; and instead of the six quarts of oats that my
  driver ordered for me, I got two. Last week I was driven to a wedding,
  and I heard music and quick feet and laughter that made the chandeliers
  rattle, while I stood unblanketed in the cold. Sometimes the doctor hires
  me, and I stand at twenty doors waiting for invalids to rehearse all
  their pains. Then the minister hires me, and I have to stay till Mrs.
  Tittle-Tattle has time to tell the dominie all the disagreeable things of
  the parish.

  The other night, after our owner had gone home and the hostlers were
  asleep, we held an indignation meeting in our livery stable. "Old Sorrel"
  presided, and there was a long line of vice-presidents and secretaries,
  mottled bays and dappled grays and chestnuts, and Shetland and Arabian
  ponies. "Charley," one of the old inhabitants of the stable, began a
  speech, amid great stamping on the part of the audience. But he soon
  broke down for lack of wind. For five years he had been suffering with
  the "heaves." Then "Pompey," a venerable nag, took his place; and though
  he had nothing to say, he held out his spavined leg, which dramatic
  posture excited the utmost enthusiasm of the audience. "Fanny Shetland,"
  the property of a lady, tried to damage the meeting by saying that horses
  had no wrongs. She said, "Just look at my embroidered blanket. I never go
  out when the weather is bad. Everybody who comes near pats me on the
  shoulder. What can be more beautiful than going out on a sunshiny
  afternoon to make an excursion through the park, amid the clatter of the
  hoofs of the stallions? I walk, or pace, or canter, or gallop, as I
  choose. Think of the beautiful life we live, with the prospect, after our
  easy work is done, of going up and joining Elijah's horses of fire."

  Next, I took the floor, and said that I was born in a warm, snug
  Pennsylvania barn; was, on my father's side, descended from Bucephalus;
  on my mother's side, from a steed that Queen Elizabeth rode in a steeple
  chase. My youth was passed in clover pastures and under trusses of
  sweet-smelling hay. I flung my heels in glee at the farmer when he came
  to catch me. But on a dark day I was over-driven, and my joints
  stiffened, and my fortunes went down, and my whole family was sold. My
  brother, with head down and sprung in the knees, pulls the street car. My
  sister makes her living on the tow path, hearing the canal boys swear. My
  aunt died of the epizoötic. My uncle--blind, and afflicted with the bots,
  the ringbone and the spring-halt--wanders about the commons, trying to
  persuade somebody to shoot him. And here I stand, old and sick, to cry
  out against the wrongs of horses--the saddles that gall, the spurs that
  prick, the snaffles that pinch, the loads that kill.

  At this a vicious-looking nag, with mane half pulled out, and a
  "watch-eye," and feet "interfering," and a tail from which had been
  subtracted enough hair to make six "waterfalls," squealed out the
  suggestion that it was time for a rebellion, and she moved that we take
  the field, and that all those who could kick should kick, and that all
  those who could bite should bite, and that all those who could bolt
  should bolt, and that all those who could run away should run away, and
  that thus we fill the land with broken wagons and smashed heads, and
  teach our oppressors that the day of retribution has come, and that our
  down-trodden race will no more be trifled with.

  When this resolution was put to vote, not one said "Aye," but all cried
  "Nay, nay," and for the space of half an hour kept on neighing. Instead
  of this harsh measure, it was voted that, by the hand of Henry Bergh,
  president of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, I
  should write this letter of remonstrance.

  My dear gentlemen and ladies, remember that we, like yourselves, have
  moods, and cannot always be frisky and cheerful. You do not slap your
  grandmother in the face because this morning she does not feel as well as
  usual; why, then do you slash us? Before you pound us, ask whether we
  have been up late the night before, or had our meals at irregular hours,
  or whether our spirits have been depressed by being kicked by a drunken
  hostler. We have only about ten or twelve years in which to enjoy
  ourselves, and then we go out to be shot into nothingness. Take care of
  us while you may. Job's horse was "clothed with thunder," but all we ask
  is a plain blanket. When we are sick, put us in a "horse-pital." Do not
  strike us when we stumble or scare. Suppose you were in the harness and I
  were in the wagon, I had the whip and you the traces, what an ardent
  advocate you would be for kindness to the irrational creation! Do not let
  the blacksmith drive the nail into the quick when he shoes me, or burn my
  fetlocks with a hot file. Do not mistake the "dead-eye" that nature put
  on my foreleg for a wart to be exterminated. Do not cut off my tail short
  in fly-time. Keep the north wind out of our stables. Care for us at some
  other time than during the epizoötics, so that we may see your kindness
  is not selfish.

  My dear friends, our interests are mutual. I am a silent partner in your
  business. Under my sound hoof is the diamond of national prosperity.
  Beyond my nostril the world's progress may not go. With thrift, and
  wealth, and comfort, I daily race neck and neck. Be kind to me if you
  want me to be useful to you. And near be the day when the red horse of
  war shall be hocked and impotent, and the pale horse of death shall be
  hurled back on his haunches, but the white horse of peace, and joy, and
  triumph shall pass on, its rider with face like the sun, all nations
  following!

  Your most obedient servant,
  Charley Bucephalus.

CHAPTER XVII.

KINGS OF THE KENNEL.

I said, when I lost Carlo, that I would never own another dog. We all sat around, like big
children, crying about it; and what made the grief worse, we had no sympathizers. Our neighbors
were glad of it, for he had not always done the fair thing with them. One of them had lost
a chicken when it was stuffed and all ready for the pan, and suspicions were upon Carlo.

I was the only counsel for the defendant; and while I had to acknowledge that the circumstantial
evidence was against him, I proved his general character for integrity, and showed that the
common and criminal law were on our side, Coke and Blackstone in our favor, and a long list
of authorities and decisions: II. Revised Statutes, New York, 132, § 27; also, Watch vs. Towser,
Crompton and Meeson, p. 375; also, State of New Jersey vs. Sicem Blanchard.

When I made these citations, my neighbor and his wife, who were judges and jurors in the case,
looked confounded; and so I followed up the advantage I had gained with the law maxim, "Non
minus ex dolo quam ex culpa quisque hac lege tenetur," which I found afterward was the wrong
Latin, but it had its desired effect, so that the jury did not agree, and Carlo escaped with
his life; and on the way home he went spinning round like a top, and punctuating his glee with
a semicolon made by both paws on my new clothes.

Yet, notwithstanding all his predicaments and frailties, at his decease we resolved, in our
trouble, that we would never own another dog. But this, like many another resolution of our
life, has been broken; and here is Nick, the Newfoundland, lying sprawled on the mat. He has
a jaw set with strength; an eye mild, but indicative of the fact that he does not want too
many familiarities from strangers; a nostril large enough to snuff a wild duck across the meadows;
knows how to shake hands, and can talk with head, and ear, and tail; and, save an unreasonable
antipathy to cats, is perfect, and always goes with me on my walk out of town.

He knows more than a great many people. Never do we take a walk but the poodles, and the rat-terriers,
and the grizzly curs with stringy hair and damp nose, get after him. They tumble off the front
door step and out of the kennels, and assault him front and rear. I have several times said
to him (not loud enough for Presbytery to hear), "Nick, why do you stand all this? Go at them!"
He never takes my advice. He lets them bark and snap, and passes on unprovokedly without sniff
or growl. He seems to say, "They are not worth minding. Let them bark. It pleases them and
don't hurt me. I started out for a six-mile tramp, and I cannot be diverted. Newfoundlanders
like me have a mission. My father pulled three drowning men to the beach, and my uncle on my
mother's side saved a child from the snow. If you have anything brave, or good, or great for
me to do, just clap your hand and point out the work, and I will do it, but I cannot waste
my time on rat-terriers."

If Nick had put that in doggerel, I think it would have read well. It was wise enough to become
the dogma of a school. Men and women are more easily diverted from the straight course than
is Nick. No useful people escape being barked at. Mythology represents Cerberus a monster dog
at the mouth of hell, but he has had a long line of puppies. They start out at editors, teachers,
philanthropists and Christians. If these men go right on their way, they perform their mission
and get their reward, but one-half of them stop and make attempt to silence the literary, political
and ecclesiastical curs that snap at them.

Many an author has got a drop of printers' ink spattered in his eye, and collapsed. The critic
who had lobsters for supper the night before, and whose wife in the morning had parted his
hair on the wrong side, snarled at the new book, and the time that the author might have spent
in new work he squanders in gunning for critics. You might better have gone straight ahead,
Nick! You will come to be estimated for exactly what you are worth. If a fool, no amount of
newspaper or magazine puffery can set you up; and if you are useful, no amount of newspaper
or magazine detraction can keep you down. For every position there are twenty aspirants; only
one man can get it; forthwith the other nineteen are on the offensive. People are silly enough
to think that they can build themselves up with the bricks they pull out of your wall. Pass
on and leave them. What a waste of powder for a hunter to go into the woods to shoot black
flies, or for a man of great work to notice infinitesimal assault! My Newfoundland would scorn
to be seen making a drive at a black-and-tan terrier.

But one day, on my walk with Nick, we had an awful time. We were coming in at great speed,
much of the time on a brisk run, my mind full of white clover tops and the balm that exudes
from the woods in full leafage, when, passing the commons, we saw a dog fight in which there
mingled a Newfoundland as large as Nick, a blood-hound and a pointer. They had been interlocked
for some time in terrific combat. They had gnashed upon and torn each other until there was
getting to be a great scarcity of ears, and eyes and tails.

Nick's head was up, but I advised him that he had better keep out of that canine misunderstanding.
But he gave one look, as much as to say, "Here at last is an occasion worthy of me," and at
that dashed into the fray. There had been no order in the fight before, but as Nick entered
they all pitched at him. They took him fore, and aft, and midships. It was a greater undertaking
than he had anticipated. He shook, and bit, and hauled, and howled. He wanted to get out of
the fight, but found that more difficult than to get in.

Now, if there is anything I like, it is fair play. I said, "Count me in!" and with stick and
other missiles I came in like Blucher at nightfall. Nick saw me and plucked up courage, and
we gave it to them right and left, till our opponents went scampering down the hill, and I
laid down the weapons of conflict and resumed my profession as a minister, and gave the mortified
dog some good advice on keeping out of scrapes, which homily had its proper effect, for with
head down and penitent look, he jogged back with me to the city.

Lesson for dogs and men: Keep out of fights. If you see a church contest, or a company of unsanctified
females overhauling each other's good name until there is nothing left of them but a broken
hoop skirt and one curl of back hair, you had better stand clear. Once go in, and your own
character will be an invitation to their muzzles. Nick's long, clean ear was a temptation to
all the teeth. You will have enough battles of your own, without getting a loan of conflicts
at twenty per cent a month.

Every time since the unfortunate struggle I have described, when Nick and I take a country
walk and pass a dog fight, he comes close up by my side, and looks me in the eye with one long
wipe of the tongue over his chops, as much as to say, "Easier to get into a fight than to get
out of it. Better jog along our own way;" and then I preach him a short sermon from Proverbs
xxvi. 17: "He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that
taketh a dog by the ears."

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE MASSACRE OF CHURCH MUSIC.

There has been an effort made for the last twenty years to kill congregational singing. The
attempt has been tolerably successful; but it seems to me that some rules might be given by
which the work could be done more quickly, and completely. What is the use of having it lingering
on in this uncertain way? Why not put it out of its misery? If you are going to kill a snake,
kill it thoroughly, and do not let it keep on wagging its tail till sundown. Congregational
singing is a nuisance, anyhow, to many of the people. It interferes with their comfort. It
offends their taste. It disposes their nose to flexibility in the upward direction. It is too
democratic in its tendency. Down with congregational singing, and let us have no more of it.

The first rule for killing it is to have only such tunes as the people cannot sing!

In some churches it is the custom for choirs at each service to sing one tune which the people
know. It is very generous of the choir to do that. The people ought to be very thankful for
the donation. They do not deserve it. They are all "miserable offenders" (I heard them say
so), and, if permitted once in a service to sing, ought to think themselves highly favored.
But I oppose this singing of even the one tune that the people understand. It spoils them.
It gets them hankering after more. Total abstinence is the only safety; for if you allow them
to imbibe at all, they will after a while get in the habit of drinking too much of it, and
the first thing you know they will be going around drunk on sacred psalmody.

Beside that, if you let them sing one tune at a service, they will be putting their oar into
the other tunes and bothering the choir. There is nothing more annoying to the choir than,
at some moment when they have drawn out a note to exquisite fineness, thin as a split hair,
to have some blundering elder to come in with a "Praise ye the Lord!" Total abstinence, I say!
Let all the churches take the pledge even against the milder musical beverages; for they who
tamper with champagne cider soon get to Hock and old Burgundy.

Now, if all the tunes are new, there will be no temptation to the people. They will not keep
humming along, hoping they will find some bars down where they can break into the clover pasture.
They will take the tune as an inextricable conundrum, and give it up. Besides that, Pisgah,
Ortonville and Brattle Street are old fashioned. They did very well in their day. Our fathers
were simple-minded people, and the tunes fitted them. But our fathers are gone, and they ought
to have taken their baggage with them. It is a nuisance to have those old tunes floating around
the church, and sometime, just as we have got the music as fine as an opera, to have a revival
of religion come, and some new-born soul break out in "Rock of Ages, Cleft for Me!" till the
organist stamps the pedal with indignation, and the leader of the tune gets red in the face
and swears. Certainly anything that makes a man swear is wrong--ergo, congregational singing
is wrong. "Quod erat demonstrandum;" which, being translated, means "Plain as the nose on a
man's face."

What right have people to sing who know nothing about rhythmics, melodies, dynamics? The old
tunes ought to be ashamed of themselves when compared with our modern beauties. Let Dundee,
and Portuguese Hymn, and Silver Street hide their heads beside what we heard not long ago in
a church--just where I shall not tell. The minister read the hymn beautifully. The organ began,
and the choir sang, as near as I could understand, as follows:

  Oo--aw--gee--bah
    Ah--me--la--he
  O--pah--sah--dah
    Wo--haw--gee-e-e-e.

My wife, seated beside me, did not like the music. But I said: "What beautiful sentiment! My
dear, it is a pastoral. You might have known that from 'Wo-haw-gee!' You have had your taste
ruined by attending the Brooklyn Tabernacle." The choir repeated the last line of the hymn
four times. Then the prima donna leaped on to the first line, and slipped, and fell on to the
second, and that broke and let her through into the third. The other voices came in to pick
her up, and got into a grand wrangle, and the bass and the soprano had it for about ten seconds;
but the soprano beat (women always do), and the bass rolled down into the cellar, and the soprano
went up into the garret, but the latter kept on squalling as though the bass, in leaving her,
had wickedly torn out all her back hair. I felt anxious about the soprano, and looked back
to see if she had fainted; but found her reclining in the arms of a young man who looked strong
enough to take care of her.

Now, I admit that we cannot all have such things in our churches. It costs like sixty. In the
Church of the Holy Bankak it coats one hundred dollars to have sung that communion, piece:

  "Ye wretched, hungry, starving poor!"

But let us come as near to it as we can. The tune "Pisgah" has been standing long enough on
"Jordan's stormy banks." Let it pass over and get out of the wet weather. Good-bye, "Antioch,"
"Harwell" and "Boylston." Good-bye till we meet in glory.

But if the prescription of new tunes does not end congregational singing, I have another suggestion.
Get an irreligious choir, and put them in a high balcony back of the congregation. I know choirs
who are made up chiefly of religious people, or those, at least, respectful for sacred things.
That will never do, if you want to kill the music. The theatrical troupe are not busy elsewhere
on Sabbath, and you can get them at half price to sing the praises of the Lord. Meet them in
the green room at the close of the "Black Crook" and secure them. They will come to church
with opera-glasses, which will bring the minister so near to them they can, from their high
perch, look clear down his throat and see his sermon before it is delivered. They will make
excellent poetry on Deacon Goodsoul as he carries around the missionary box. They will write
dear little notes to Gonzaldo, asking him how his cold is and how he likes gum-drops. Without
interfering with the worship below, they can discuss the comparative fashionableness of the
"basque" and the "polonaise," the one lady vowing she thinks the first style is "horrid," and
the other saying she would rather die than be seen in the latter; all this while the chorister
is gone out during sermon to refresh himself with a mint-julep, hastening back in time to sing
the last hymn. How much like heaven it will be when, at the close of a solemn service, we are
favored with snatches from Verdi's "Trovatore," Meyerbeer's "Huguenots" and Bellini's "Sonnambula,"
from such artists as

  Mademoiselle Squintelle,
    Prima Donna Soprano, from Grand Opera House, Paris.
  Signor Bombastani,
    Basso Buffo, from Royal Italian Opera.
  Carl Schneiderine,
    First Baritone, of His Majesty's Theatre, Berlin.

If after three months of taking these two prescriptions the congregational singing is not thoroughly
dead, send me a letter directed to my name, with the title of O.F.M. (Old Fogy in Music), and
I will, on the receipt thereof, write Another prescription, which I am sure will kill it dead
as a door nail, and that is the deadest thing in all history.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE BATTLE OF PEW AND PULPIT.

Two more sermons unloaded, and Monday morning I went sauntering down town, ready for almost
anything. I met several of my clerical friends going to a ministers' meeting. I do not often
go there, for I have found that some of the clerical meetings are gridirons where they roast
clergymen who do not do things just as we do them. I like a Presbyterian gridiron no better
than a Methodist one, and prefer to either of them an old-fashioned spit, such as I saw one
summer in Oxford, England, where the rabbit is kept turning round before a slow fire, in blessed
state of itinerancy, the rabbit thinking he is merely taking a ride, while he is actually roasting.

As on the Monday morning I spoke of I was passing down the street, I heard high words in a
church. What could it be? Was it the minister, and the sexton, and the trustees fighting? I
went in to see, when, lo! I found that the Pew and the Pulpit were bantering each other at
a great rate, and seemed determined to tell each one the other's faults. I stood still as a
mouse that I might hear all that was said, and my presence not be noticed.

The Pew was speaking as I went in, and said to the Pulpit, in anything but a reverential tone:
"Why don't you speak out on other days as well as you do to-day? The fact is, I never knew
a Pulpit that could not be heard when it was thoroughly mad. But when you give out the hymn
on Sabbaths, I cannot tell whether it is the seventieth or the hundredth. When you read the
chapter, you are half through with it before I know whether it is Exodus or Deuteronomy. Why
do you begin your sermon in so low a key? If the introduction is not worth hearing, it is not
worth delivering. Are you explaining the text? If so, the Lord's meaning is as important as
anything you will have in your sermon. Throw back your shoulders, open your mouth! Make your
voice strike against the opposite wall! Pray not only for a clean heart, but for stout lungs.
I have nearly worn out my ears trying to catch your utterances. When a captain on a battlefield
gives an order, the company all hear; and if you want to be an officer in the Lord's army,
do not mumble your words. The elocution of Christ's sermon is described when we are told he
opened his mouth and taught them--that is, spoke distinctly, as those cannot who keep their
lips half closed. Do you think it a sign of modesty to speak so low? I think the most presuming
thing on earth for a Pulpit to do is to demand that an audience sit quiet when they cannot
hear, simply looking. The handsomest minister I ever saw is not worth looking at for an hour
and a half at a stretch. The truth is that I have often been so provoked with your inarticulate
speech, that I would have got up and left the church, had it not been for the fact that I am
nailed fast, and my appearance on the outside on a Sabbath-day, walking up and down, would
have brought around me a crowd of unsanctified boys to gaze at me, a poor church pew on its
travels."

The Pulpit responded in anything but a pious tone: "The reason you do not hear is that your
mind on Sundays is full of everything but the gospel. You work so hard during the week that
you rob the Lord of his twenty-four hours. The man who works on Sunday as well as the rest
of the week is no worse than you who abstain on that day, because your excessive devotion to
business during the week kills your Sunday; and a dead Sunday is no Sunday at all. You throw
yourself into church as much as to say, 'Here, Lord, I am too tired to work any more for myself;
you can have the use of me while I am resting!' Besides that, O Pew! you have a miserable habit.
Even when you can hear my voice on the Sabbath and are wide awake, you have a way of putting
your head down or shutting your eyes, and looking as if your soul had vacated the premises
for six weeks. You are one of those hearers who think it is pious to look dull; and you think
that the Pew on the other side the aisle is an old sinner because he hunches the Pew behind
him, and smiles when the truth hits the mark. If you want me to speak out, it is your duty
not only to be wide awake, but to look so. Give us the benefit of your two eyes. There is one
of the elders whose eyes I have never caught while speaking, save once, and that was when I
was preaching from Psalm cxiii. 12, 'They compassed me about like bees,' and by a strange coincidence
a bumble-bee got into church, and I had my attention divided between my text and the annoying
insect, which flew about like an illustration I could not catch. A dull Pew is often responsible
for a dull Pulpit. Do not put your head down on the back of the seat in front, pretending you
are very much affected with the sermon, for we all know you are napping."

The Pew: "If you want me to be alert, give me something fresh and startling. Your sermons all
sound alike. It don't make any difference where you throw the net, you never fish up anything
but moss-bunkers. You are always talking about stale things. Why don't you give us a touch,
of learned discussion, such as the people hear every Sunday in the church of Reverend Doctor
Heavyasbricks, when, with one eye on heaven and the other on the old man in the gallery, he
speaks of the Tridentine theory of original sin, and Patristic Soteriology, Mediæval Trinitarianism,
and Antiochian Anthropology? Why do you not give us some uncommon words, and instead of 'looking
back upon your subject,' sometimes 'recapitulate,' and instead of talking about a man's 'peculiarities,'
mention his 'idiot-sin-crasies,' and describe the hair as the capillary adornment; and instead
of speaking of a thing as tied together, say it was 'inosculated.'"

The Pulpit: "You keep me so poor I cannot buy the books necessary to keep me fresh. After the
babies are clothed, and the table is provided for, and the wardrobe supplied, my purse is empty,
and you know the best carpenter cannot make good shingles without tools. Better pay up your
back salary instead of sitting there howling at me. You eased your conscience by subscribing
for the support of the gospel, but the Lord makes no record of what a man subscribes; he waits
to see whether he pays. The poor widow with the two mites is applauded in Scripture because
she paid cash down. I have always noticed that you Pews make a big noise about Pulpit deficiencies,
just in proportion to the little you do. The fifty cents you pay is only premium on your policy
of five dollars' worth of grumbling. O critical Pew! you had better scour the brass number
on your own door before you begin to polish the silver knob on mine."

The Pew: "I think it is time for you to go away. I am glad that conference is coming. I shall
see the bishop, and have you removed to some other part of the Lord's vineyard. You are too
plain a Pulpit for such an elegant Pew. Just look at your big hands and feet. We want a spiritual
guide whose fingers taper to a fine point, and one who could wear, if need be, a lady's shoe.
Get out, with your great paws and clodhoppers! We want in this church a Pulpit that will talk
about heaven, and make no allusion to the other place. I have a highly educated nose, and can
stand the smell of garlic and assafoetida better than brimstone. We want an oleaginous minister,
commonly called oily. We want him distinguished for his unctuosity. We want an ecclesiastical
scent-bag, or, as you might call him, a heavenly nosegay, perfect in every respect, his ordinary
sneeze as good as a doxology. If he cry during some emotional part of his discourse, let it
not be an old-fashioned cry, with big hands or coat sleeve sopping up the tears, but let there
be just two elegant tears, one from each eye, rolling down parallel into a pocket-handkerchief
richly embroidered by the sewing society, and inscribed with the names of all the young ladies'
Bible class. If he kneel before sermon, let it not be a coming down like a soul in want, but
on one knee, so artistically done that the foot shall show the twelve-dollar patent leather
shoe, while the aforesaid pocket-handkerchief is just peeping from the coat pocket, to see
if the ladies who made it are all there--the whole scene a religious tableau. We want a Pulpit
that will not get us into a tearing-down revival, where the people go shouting and twisting
about, regardless of carpets and fine effects, but a revival that shall be born in a band-box,
and wrapped in ruffles, and lie on a church rug, so still that nobody will know it is there.
If we could have such a Pulpit as that, all my fellow-Pews would join me, and we would give
it a handsome support; yes, we would pay him; if we got just what we want, we could afford
to give, in case he were thoroughly eloquent, Demosthenic and bewitching--I am quite certain
we could, although I should not want myself to be held responsible; yes, he should have eight
hundred dollars a year, and that is seven hundred and sixty dollars more than Milton got for
his 'Paradise Lost,' about which one of his learned contemporaries wrote: 'The old blind schoolmaster,
John Milton, hath published a tedious poem on the fall of man; if its length be not considered
a merit, it has no other.' Nothing spoils ministers like too big a salary. Jeshurun waxed fat
and kicked; if it had not been for the wax and the fat, he would not have kicked. Sirloin steaks
and mince pies are too rich for ministers. Put these men down on catfish and flounders, as
were the fishermen apostles. Too much oats makes horses frisky, and a minister high-fed is
sure to get his foot over the shaft. If we want to keep our pulpits spiritual, we must keep
them poor. Blessed are the poor!"

"Stop! stop!" cried the Pulpit; and it seemed to rise higher than before, and to tremble from
head to foot with excitement, and the banisters to twist as if to fly in indignation at the
Pew, and the plush on the book-board to look red as fire; and seeing there was going to be
a collision between Pulpit and Pew, I ran up the aisle and got between them (they were wide
enough apart to allow me to get in), and I cried, "Silence! This is great talk for a church.
Pulpits ought not to scold, and Pews ought not to grumble. As far as I can see, you are both
to blame. Better shake hands and pray for a better spirit. It wants more than a bishop to settle
this difficulty. The Lord Almighty alone can make Pulpit and Pew what they ought to be. You
both need to be baptized over again!" Then, taking up a silver bowl that stood on the communion
table, half full of the water yesterday used at a babe's christening, I stood between the belligerents,
and sprinkled Pew and Pulpit with a Christian baptism, in the name of the Father, and the Son,
and the Holy Ghost. And when I got through, I could not tell whether Pew or Pulpit said Amen
the louder.

CHAPTER XX.

THE DEVIL'S GRIST-MILL.

The above name has been given to one of the geysers of California, that group of boiling springs,
now famous. Indeed, the whole region has been baptized with Satanic nomenclature.

The guide showed us what he called the "Devil's Mush-pot," the "Devil's Pulpit," the "Devil's
Machine Shop," and, hearing a shrill whistle in the distance, we were informed it was the "Devil's
Tea-kettle." Seeing some black water rushing from a fountain, from which the people of the
neighborhood and tourists dip up genuine ink, we were told it was the "Devil's Ink-stand."
Indeed, you are prepared for this on the Pacific Railroad, as your guide book points you to
the "Devil's Gate," and the "Devil's Slide," and the "Devil's Peak."

We protest against this surrender of all the geysers to the arch demon. All the writers talk
of the place as infernal. We do not believe this place so near to hell as to heaven. We doubt
if Satan ever comes here. He knows enough of hot climates, by experience, to fly from the hiss
of these subterraneous furnaces. Standing amid the roaring, thundering, stupendous wonder of
two hundred spouting water springs, we felt like crying out, "Great and marvelous are thy works,
Lord God almighty!"

Let all the chemists and geologists of the world come and see the footstep of God in crystals
of alum and sulphur and salt. Here is the chemist's shop of the continent. Enough black indelible
ink rushes out of this well, with terrific plash, to supply all the scribes of the world. There
are infinite fortunes for those who will delve for the borax, nitric and sulphuric acid, soda,
magnesia and other valuables. Enough sulphur here to purify the blood of the race, or in gunpowder
to kill it; enough salt to savor all the vegetables of the world. Its acid water, which waits
only for a little sugar to make it delicious lemonade, may yet be found in all the drug stores
of the country. The water in one place roars like a steamboat discharging its steam. Your boots
curl with the heat as you stand on the hot rocks, looking. Almost anywhere a thrust of your
cane will evoke a gush of steam. Our thermometer, plunged into one spring, answered one hundred
and seventy-five degrees of heat. Thrust in the "Witch's Caldron," it asserted two hundred
and fifteen degrees. "The Ink-stand" declared itself two hundred degrees. An artificial whistle
placed at the mouth of one of these geysers may be heard miles away. You get a hot bath without
paying for it. The guide warns you off the crust in certain places, lest you at the same moment
be drowned and boiled. Here an egg cooks hard in three minutes.

The whole scene is unique and incomparable. The Yosemite makes us think of the Alps; San Francisco
reminds us of Chicago; Foss, the stage driver, hurling his passengers down the mountain at
break-neck speed, suggests the driver of an Alpine diligence; Hutchings' mountain horse, that
stumbled and fell flat upon us, suggested our mule-back experiences in Tête Noir Pass of Switzerland;
but the geysers remind us of nothing that we ever saw, or ever expect to see. They have a voice,
a bubble, a smoke, a death-rattle, peculiar to themselves. No photographist can picture them,
no words describe them, no fancy sketch them.

You may visit them by either of two routes; but do not take the advice of Foss, the celebrated
stage driver. You ought to go by one route, and return the other; yet Foss has made thousands
of travelers believe that the only safe and interesting way to return is the way they go--namely,
by his route. They who take his counsel miss some of the grandest scenery on the continent.
Any stage driver who by his misrepresentations would shut a tourist out of the entrancing beauties
of the "Russian Valley" ought to be thrashed with his own raw-hide. We heard Foss bamboozling
a group of travelers with the idea that on the other route the roads were dangerous, the horses
poor, the accommodations wretched and the scenery worthless. We came up in time to combat the
statement with our own happy experiences of the Russian Valley, and to save his passengers
from the oft-repeated imposition.

And thus I have suggested the chief annoyance of California travel. The rivalries of travel
are so great that it is almost impossible to get accurate information. The stage drivers, guides
and hotel proprietors, for the most part, are financially interested in different routes. Going
to Yosemite Valley by the "Calaveras route," from the office in San Francisco where you buy
your ticket to the end of your journey, everybody assures you that J.M. Hutchings, one of the
hotel keepers of Yosemite, is a scholar, a poet, a gentleman and a Christian, and that to him
all the world is indebted for the opening of the valley. But if you go in by the "Mariposa
route," then from the office where you get your ticket, along by all the way stations and through
the mountain passes, you are assured that Mr. Liedig, the hotel keeper of Yosemite, is the
poet and Christian, and that J.M. Hutchings aforesaid is a nobody, a blower, a dead beat, the
chief impediment to the interests of Yosemite--or, to use a generic term, a scalawag.

The fact is that no one can afford in California to take the same route twice, for each one
has a glory of its own. If a traveler have but one day for the Louvre Gallery, he cannot afford
to spend it all in one corridor; and as California is one great picture gallery, filled with
the masterpieces of Him who paints with sunshine and dew and fire, and sculptures with chisel
of hurricane and thunderbolt, we cannot afford to pass more than once before any canvas or marble.

But whatever route you choose for the "Hot Springs," and whatever pack of stage driver yarns
you accept, know this--that in all this matchless California, with climate of perpetual summer,
the sky cloudless and the wind blowing six months from the genial west; the open field a safe
threshing floor for the grandest wheat harvests of the world; nectarines and pomegranates and
pears in abundance that perish for lack of enough hands to pick; by a product in one year of
six million five hundred thousand gallons of wine proving itself the vineyard of this hemisphere;
African callas, and wild verbenas, and groves of oleander and nutmeg; the hills red with five
thousand cattle in a herd, and white with a hundred and fifty thousand sheep in a flock; the
neighboring islands covered with wild birds' eggs, that enrich the markets, or sounding with
the constant "yoi-hoi," "yoi-hoi," of the sea-lions that tumble over them; a State that might
be called the "Central Park" of the world; the gulches of gold pouring more than fifty million
of dollars a year into the national lap; lofty lakes, like Tahoe, set crystalline in the crown
of the mountain; waterfalls so weird that you do not wonder that the Indians think that whosoever
points his finger at them must die, and in one place the water plunging from a height more
than sixteen times greater than Niagara,--even in such a country of marvels as this, there
is nothing that makes you ask more questions, or bow in profounder awe, or come away with more
interesting reminiscences than the world renowned California geysers.

There is a bang at your bed-room door at five-o'clock in the morning, rousing you to go up
and explore them; and after spending an hour or two in wandering among them, you come back
to the breakfast prepared by the model landlord of California, jolly, obliging, intelligent,
reasonable. As you mount the stage for departure you give him a warm shake of the hand, and
suggest that it would be a grand thing if some one with a vein of poetry in his mind and the
faith of God in his heart would come round some day, and passing among the geysers with a sprinkle
of hot steam, would baptize them with a Christian name.

Let us ascribe to Satan nothing that is grand, or creative, or wise. He could not make one
of these grains of alum. He could not blow up one of these bubbles on the spring. He does some
things that seem smart; but taking him all in all, he is the biggest fool in the universe.

If the devil wants to boil his "Tea-kettle," or stir his "Mush-pot," or whirl his "Grist-mill,"
let him do it in his own territory. Meanwhile, let the water and the fire and the vapor, at
the lift of David's orchestral baton, praise the Lord!

CHAPTER XXI.

THE CONDUCTOR'S DREAM.

He had been on the train all day, had met all kinds of people, received all sorts of treatment,
punctured all kinds of tickets, shouted "All out!" and "All aboard!" till throat, and head,
and hand, and foot were weary. It would be a long while before we would get to another depot,
and so he sagged down in the corner of the car to sleep. He was in the most uncomfortable position
possible. The wind blew in his neck, his arm was hung over the back of the seat, he had one
foot under him, and his knee pressing hard against a brass hinge. In that twisted and convoluted
position he fell asleep, and soon began to dream.

It seemed to him, in his sleep, that the car was full of disagreeables. Here was a man who
persisted in having a window up, while the rain and sleet drove in. There was a man who occupied
the whole seat, and let the ladies stand. Here sat a man smoking three poor cigars at once,
and expectorating into the beaver hat of the gentleman in front. Yonder was a burglar on his
way to jail, and opposite a murderer going to the gallows. He thought that pickpockets took
his watch and ruffians refused to pay their fare. A woman traveling alone shot at him a volley
of questions: "Say, conductor, how long before we will get to the Junction?" "Are you sure
we have not passed it?" "Do you always stop there?" "What time is it?" Madam, do keep quiet!
"None of your impudence!" "How far from here to the Junction?" "Do you think that other train
will wait?" "Do you think we will get there in time?" "Say, conductor, how many miles yet?"
"Are you looking out?" "Now, you won't let me go past, will you?" "Here! conductor, here! Help
me out with my carpet bag, and band-box, and shawl, and umbrella, and this bundle of sausage
and head-cheese." What was worse, the train got going one hundred and fifty miles an hour,
and pulling the connecting rope, it broke, and the cars got off the track, and leaped on again,
and the stove changed places with the wood box, and things seemed going to terrible split and
unmitigated smash. The cities flew past. The brakes were powerless. The whistle grew into a
fiend's shriek. Then the train began to slow up, and sheeted ghosts swung lanterns along the
track, and the cars rolled into a white depot, which turned out to be a great marble tomb;
and looking back to see his passengers, they were all stark dead, frozen in upright horror
to the car backs.

Hearing by the man's snore, and seeing by his painful look, he was having an awful dream, we
tapped him on the shoulder and said, "Conductor! Turn over that seat, and take my shawl, and
stretch yourself out, and have a comfortable nap." "Thank you, sir," he said, and immediately
sprawled himself out in the easiest way possible. He began his slumbers just as an express
train glides gracefully out of Pittsburg depot; then went at it more earnestly, lifted all
the brakes, put on all the steam, and in five minutes was under splendid headway. He began
a second dream, but it was the opposite of the first. He thought that he had just stepped on
the platform of his car, and a lady handed him a bouquet fresh from the hot house. A long line
of railroad presidents and superintendents had come to the depot to see him off, and tipped
their hats as he glided out into the open air. The car was an improvement on Pullman's best.
Three golden goblets stood at the end, and every time he turned the spigot of the water cask,
it foamed soda-water--vanilla if you turned it one way, strawberry if you turned it the other.
The spittoon was solid silver, and had never been used but once, when a child threw into it
an orange peeling. The car was filled with lords and duchesses, who rose and bowed as he passed
through to collect the fare. They all insisted on paying twice as much as was demanded, telling
him to give half to the company and keep the rest for himself. Stopped a few minutes at Jolly
Town, Gleeville and Velvet Junction, making connection with the Grand Trunk and Pan-Handle
route for Paradise. But when the train halted there was no jolt, and when it started there
was no jerk. The track was always clear, no freight train in the way, no snow bank to be shoveled--train
always on time. Banks of roses on either side, bridges with piers of bronze, and flagmen clad
in cloth-of-gold. The train went three hundred miles the hour, but without any risk, for all
the passengers were insured against accident in a company that was willing to pay four times
the price of what any neck was worth. The steam whistle breathed as sweetly as any church choir
chanting its opening piece. Nobody asked the conductor to see his time-table, for the only
dread any passenger had was that of coming to the end of its journey.

As night came on the self-adjusting couches spread themselves on either side; patent bootjacks
rolled up and took your boots off; unseen fingers tucked the damask covers all about you, and
the porter took your pocket-book to keep till morning, returning it then with twice what you
had in it at nightfall. After a while the train slackens to one hundred and seventy-five miles
an hour, and the conductor, in his dream, announces that they are coming near the terminus.
More brakes are dropped and they are running but ninety miles the hour; and some one, looking
out of the window, says, "How slow we go!" "Yes," says the conductor, "we are holding up."
Now they have almost stopped, going at only seventy miles the hour. The long line of depot
lamps are flashing along the track. On the platform of the station are the lovers who are waiting
for their betrothed, and parents who have come down to greet their children, returned with
a fortune, and wives who have not been able to eat or drink since their spouses went away three
weeks before. As the cushioned train flashes into the depot and stops, wedding bells peal,
and the gong of many banquets sounds, and white arms are flung about necks, reckless of mistake,
and innumerable percussions of affection echo through the depot, so crisp and loud that they
wake the conductor, who thought that the boisterous smack was on his own cheek, but finds that
he is nothing but a bachelor railroad man, with a lantern, at midnight getting out into a snow
bank.

Application: Get an easy position when you sleep, if you have any choice between angels and
gorgons. At midnight, seizing a chair, I ran into the next room, resolving to kill, at the
first stroke, the ruffian who was murdering a member of my household. But there was no ruffian.
The sweet girl had, during the day, been reading of St. Bartholomew's massacre, and was now
lying on her back, dreaming it all over again. When dreams find anyone lying flat on the back,
they cry out, "Here is a flat surface on which to skate and play ball," and from scalp to toe
they sport themselves. The hardest nag in all the world to ride is the nightmare. Many think
that sleep is lost time. But the style of your work will be mightily affected by the style
of your slumber. Sound Asleep is sister of Wide Awake. Adam was the only man who ever lost
a rib by napping too soundly; but when he woke up, he found that, instead of the twelve ribs
with which he started, he really had nigh two dozen. By this I prove that sleep is not subtraction,
but addition. This very night may that angel put balm on both your eyelids five minutes after
you touch the pillow!

CHAPTER XXII.

PUSH & PULL.

We have long been acquainted with a business firm whose praises have never been sung. I doubt
whether their names are ever mentioned on Exchange. They seem to be doing more business and
have more branch houses than the Stewarts or Lippincotts. You see their names almost everywhere
on the door. It is the firm of Push & Pull. They generally have one of their partners' names
on outside of the door, and the other on the inside: "Push" on the outside and "Pull" on the
inside. I have found their business-houses in New York, Brooklyn, Philadelphia, Boston, London
and Edinburgh. It is under my eye, whether I go to buy a hat, a shawl, or a paper of pins,
or watch, or ream of foolscap. They are in all kinds of business; and from the way they branch
out, and put up new stores, and multiply their signboards on the outside and inside of doors,
I conclude that the largest business firm on earth to-day is Push & Pull.

When these gentlemen join the church, they make things go along vigorously. The roof stops
leaking; a new carpet blooms on the church floor; the fresco is retouched; the high pulpit
is lowered till it comes into the same climate with the pew; strangers are courteously seated;
the salary of the minister is paid before he gets hopelessly in debt to butcher and baker;
and all is right, financially and spiritually, because Push & Pull have connected themselves
with the enterprise.

A new parsonage is to be built, but the movement does not get started. Eight or ten men of
slow circulation of blood and stagnant liver put their hands on the undertaking, but it will
not budge. The proposed improvement is about to fail when Push comes up behind it and gives
it a shove, and Pull goes in front and lays into the traces; and, lo! the enterprise advances,
the goal is reached! And all the people who had talked about the improvement, but done nothing
toward it, invite the strangers who come to town to go up and see "our" parsonage.

Push & Pull are wide-awake men. They never stand round with their hands in their pockets, as
though feeling for money that they cannot find. They have made up their minds that there is
a work for them to do; and without wasting any time in reverie, they go to work and do it.
They start a "life insurance company." Push is the president, and Pull the secretary. Before
you know it, all the people are running in to have their lungs sounded, and to tell how many
times they have had the rheumatism; how old they are; whether they ever had fits; and at what
age their father and mother expired; and putting all the family secrets on paper, and paying
Push & Pull two hundred dollars to read it. When this firm starts a clothing house, they make
a great stir in the city. They advertise in such strong and emphatic way that the people are
haunted with the matter, and dream about it, and go round the block to avoid that store door,
lest they be persuaded in and induced to buy something they cannot afford. But some time the
man forgets himself, and finds he is in front of the new clothing store, and, at the first
gleaner of goods in the show window, is tempted to enter. Push comes up behind him, and Pull
comes up before him, and the man is convinced of the shabbiness of his present appearance--that
his hat will not do, that his coat and vest and all the rest of his clothes, clean down to
his shoes, are unfit; and before one week is past, a boy runs up the steps of this customer
with a pasteboard box marked, "From the clothing establishment of Push & Pull. C.O.D."

These men can do anything they set their hands to--publish a newspaper, lay out a street, build
a house, control a railroad, manage a church, revolutionize a city. In fact, any two industrious,
honorable, enterprising men can accomplish wonders. One does the out-door work of the store,
and the other the indoor work. One leads, the other follows; but both working in one direction,
all obstacles are leveled before them.

I wish that more of our young men could graduate from the store of Push & Pull. We have tens
of thousands of young men doing nothing. There must be work somewhere if they will only do
it. They stand round, with soap locks and scented pocket-handkerchiefs, tipping their hats
to the ladies; while, instead of waiting for business to come to them, they ought to go to
work and make a business. Here is the ladder of life. The most of those who start at the top
of the ladder spend their life in coming down, while those who start at the bottom may go up.
Those who are born with a gold spoon in their mouth soon lose the spoon. The two school bullies
that used to flourish their silk pocket-handkerchiefs in my face, and with their ivory-handled,
four-bladed knives punch holes through my kite--one of them is in the penitentiary, and the
other ought to be.

Young man, the road of life is up hill, and our load heavy. Better take off your kid gloves,
and patent leathers, and white vest, and ask Push, with his stout shoulder, and Pull, with
his strong grip, to help you. Energy, pluck, courage, obstinate determination are to be cultured.
Eat strong meat, drop pastries, stop reading sickly novelettes, pray at both ends of the day
and in the middle, look a man in the eye when you talk to him, and if you want to be a giant
keep your head out of the lap of indulgences that would put a pair of shears through your locks.

If you cannot get the right kind of business partner, marry a good, honest wife. Fine cheeks
and handsome curls are very well, but let them be mere incidentals. Let our young men select
practical women; there are a few of them left. With such a one you can get on with almost all
heavy loads of life. You will be Pull, and she Push; and if you do not get the house built
and the fortune established, send me word, and I will tear this article up in such small pieces
that no one will ever be able to find it.

Life is earnest work, and cannot be done with the tips of the fingers. We want more crowbars
and fewer gold toothpicks. The obstacles before you cannot be looked out of countenance by
a quizzing glass. Let sloth and softliness go to the wall, but three cheers for Push & Pull,
and all their branch business houses!

CHAPTER XXIII.

BOSTONIANS.

We ran up to the Boston anniversaries to cast our vote with those good people who are in that
city on the side of the right. We like to go to the modern Athens two or three times a year.
Among other advantages, Boston always soothes our nerves. It has a quieting effect upon us.
The people there are better satisfied than any people we know of. Judging from a few restless
spirits who get on some of the erratic platforms of that city, and who fret and fume about
things in general, the world has concluded that Boston is at unrest. But you may notice that
the most of the restless people who go there are imported speakers, whom Boston hires to come
once a year and do for her all the necessary fretting.

The genuine Bostonian is satisfied. He rises moderately early, goes to business without any
especial haste, dresses comfortably, talks deliberately, lunches freely, and goes home to his
family at plausible hours. He would like to have the world made better, but is not going to
make himself sick in trying to cure the moral ailments of others.

The genuine Bostonian is, for the most part, pleased with himself, has confidence that the
big elm will last another hundred years, keeps his patriotism fresh by an occasional walk near
the meat market under Faneuil Hall, and reads the "Atlantic Monthly." We believe there is less
fidgeting in Boston than in any city of the country. We think that the average of human life
must be longer there than in most cities. Dyspepsia is a rarity; for when a mutton chop is
swallowed of a Bostonian it gives up, knowing that there is no need of fighting against such
inexorable digestion.

The ladies of Boston have more color in their cheeks than those of many cities, and walk as
though they would live to get round the next corner. It is not so fashionable to be delicate.
They are robust in mind and always ready for an argument. State what you consider an indisputable
proposition, and they will say: "Yes, but then--" They are not afraid to attack the theology
of a minister, or the jurisprudence of a lawyer, or the pharmacy of a doctor. If you do not
look out, the Boston woman will throw off her shawl and upset your logic in a public meeting.

We like the men and women of Boston. They have opinions about everything--some of them adverse
to your own, but even in that case so well expressed that, in admiration for the rhetoric,
you excuse the divergence of sentiment. We never found a half-and-half character in Boston.
The people do not wait till they see which way the smoke of their neighbors' chimneys blows
before they make up their own minds.

The most conspicuous book on the parlor table of the hotels of other cities is a book of engravings
or a copy of the Bible. In some of the Boston hotels, the prominent book on the parlor table
is "Webster's Unabridged Dictionary." You may be left in doubt about the Bostonian's character,
but need not doubt his capacity to parse a sentence, or spell without any resemblance of blunder
the word "idiosyncrasy."

Boston, having made up its mind, sticks to it. Many years ago it decided that the religious
societies ought to hold a public anniversary in June, and it never wavers. New York is tired
of these annual demonstrations, and goes elsewhere; but in the early part of every June, Boston
puts its umbrella under its arm and starts for Tremont Temple, or Music Hall, determined to
find an anniversary, and finds it. You see on the stage the same spectacles that shone on the
speakers ten years ago, and the same bald heads, for the solid men of Boston got in the way
of wearing their hair thin in front a quarter of a century ago, and all the solid men of Boston
will, for the next century, wear their hair thin in front.

There are fewer dandies in Boston than in most cities. Clothes, as a general thing, do not
make fun of the people they sit on. The humps on the ladies' backs are not within two feet
of being as high as in some of the other cities, and a dromedary could look at them without
thinking itself caricatured. You see more of the outlandishness of fashion in one day on Broadway
than in a week on any one street of Boston. Doubtless, Boston is just as proud as New York,
but her pride is that of brains, and those, from the necessities of the case, are hidden.

Go out on the fashionable drive of Boston, and you find that the horses are round limbed, and
look as well satisfied as their owners. A restless man always has a thin horse. He does not
give the creature time to eat, wears out on him so many whip lashes, and keeps jerking perpetually
at the reins. Boston horses are, for the most part, fat, feel their oats, and know that the
eyes of the world are upon them. You see, we think it no dishonor to a minister to admire good
horses, provided he does not trade too often, and impose a case of glanders and bots on his
unsophisticated neighbor. We think that, as a minister is set up for an example to his flock,
he ought to have the best horse in the congregation. A minister is no more sacred when riding
behind a spavined and ringboned nag than when whirling along after a horse that can swallow
a mile in 2.30.

The anniversary week in Boston closed by a display of flowers and fruits in Horticultural Hall.
It was appropriate that philanthropists and Christians, hot from discussions of moral and religious
topics, should go in and take a bath of rose leaves and geraniums. Indeed, I think the sweetest
anniversary of the week was that of these flowers. A large rhododendron presided. Azaleas and
verbenas took part in the meeting. The Chinese honeysuckle and clematis joined in the doxology.
A magnolia pronounced the benediction. And we went home praying for the time when the lily
of the valley shall be planted in every heart, and the desert shall blossom as the rose.

CHAPTER XXIV.

JONAH VERSUS THE WHALE.

Unbelievers have often told us that the story of the prophet swallowed by a great fish was
an absurdity. They say that, so long in the stomach of the monster, the minister would have
been digested. We have no difficulty in this matter. Jonah, was a most unwilling guest of the
whale. He wanted to get out. However much he may have liked fish, he did not want it three
times a day and all the time. So he kept up a fidget, and a struggle, and a turning over, and
he gave the whale no time to assimilate him. The man knew that if he was ever to get out he
must be in perpetual motion. We know men that are so lethargic they would have given the matter
up, and lain down so quietly that in a few hours they would have gone into flukes and fish
bones, blow-holes and blubber.

Now we see men all around us who have been swallowed by monstrous misfortunes. Some of them
sit down on a piece of whalebone and give up. They say: "No use! I will never get back my money,
or restore my good name, or recover my health." They float out to sea and are never again heard
of. Others, the moment they go down the throat of some great trouble, begin immediately to
plan for egress. They make rapid estimate of the length of the vertebrate, and come to the
conclusion how far they are in. They dig up enough spermaceti out of the darkness to make a
light, and keep turning this way and that, till the first you know they are out. Determination
to get well has much to do with recovered invalidism. Firm will to defeat bankruptcy decides
financial deliverance. Never surrender to misfortune or discouragement. You can, if you are
spry enough, make it as uncomfortable for the whale as the whale can make it uncomfortable
for you. There will be some place where you can brace your foot against his ribs, and some
long upper tooth around which you may take hold, and he will be as glad to get rid of you for
tenant as you are to get rid of him for landlord. There is a way, if you are determined to
find it. All our sympathies are with the plaintiff in the suit of Jonah versus Leviathan.

CHAPTER XXV.

SOMETHING UNDER THE SOFA.

Not more than twenty-five miles from New York city, and not more than two years ago, there
stood a church in which occurred a novelty. We promised not to tell; but as we omit all names,
we think ourselves warranted in writing the sketch. The sacred edifice had stood more than
a hundred years, until the doors were rickety, and often stood open during the secular week.
The window glass in many places had been broken out. The shingles were off and the snow drifted
in, and the congregation during a shower frequently sat under the droppings of the sanctuary.
All of which would have been a matter for sympathy, had it not been for the fact that the people
of the neighborhood were nearly all wealthy, and lived in large and comfortable farm houses,
making the appearance of their church a fit subject for satire.

The pulpit was giving way with the general wreck, was unpainted, and the upholstery on book-board
and sofa seemed calling out with Jew's voice, "Any old clo'? Any old clo'?" One Sabbath, the
minister felt some uneasiness under the sofa while the congregation were singing, and could
not imagine the cause; but found out the next day that a maternal cat had made her nest there
with her group of offspring, who had entered upon mortal life amid these honorable surroundings.

Highly-favored kittens! If they do not turn out well, it will not be the fault of their mother,
who took them so early under good influences. In the temple of old the swallow found a nest
for herself where she might lay her young; but this is the first time we ever knew of the conference
of such honors on the Felis domestica. It could not have been anything mercenary that took
the old cat into the pulpit, for "poor as a church mouse" has become proverbial. Nothing but
lofty aspirations could have taken her there, and a desire that her young should have advantages
of high birth. If in the "Historical Society" there are mummied cats two thousand years old,
much more will post-mortem honors be due this ecclesiastical Pussy.

We see many churches in city as well as town that need rehabilitation and reconstruction. People
of a neighborhood have no right to live in houses better constructed than their church. Better
touch up the fresco, and put on a new roof, and tear out the old pews which ignore the shape
of a man's back, and supersede the smoky lamps by clarified kerosene or cheap gas brackets.
Lower you high pulpit that your preacher may come down from the Mont Blanc of his isolation
and solitariness into the same climate of sympathy with his audience. Tear away the old sofa,
ragged and spring-broken, on which the pastors of forty years have been obliged to sit, and
see whether there are any cats in your antediluvian pulpit.

Would it not be well for us all to look under our church sofas and see if there be anything
lurking there that we do not suspect? A cat, in all languages, has been the symbol of deceit
and spitefulness, and she is more fit for an ash barrel than a pulpit. Since we heard that
story of feline nativity, whenever we see a minister of religion, on some question of Christian
reform, skulking behind a barrier, and crawling away into some half-and-half position on the
subject of temperance or oppression, and daring not to speak out, instead of making his pulpit
a height from which to hurl the truth against the enemies of God, turning it into a cowardly
hiding place, we say, "Another cat in the pulpit."

Whenever we see a professed minister of religion lacking in frankness of soul, deceitful in
his friendship, shaking hands heartily when you meet him, but in private taking every possible
opportunity of giving you a long, deep scratch, or in public newspapers giving you a sly dig
with the claw of his pen, we say: "Another cat in the pulpit!"

Once a year let all our churches be cleaned with soap, and sand, and mop, and scrubbing brush,
and the sexton not forget to give one turn of his broom under the pastor's chair. Would that
with one bold and emphatic "scat!" we could drive the last specimen of deceitfulness and skulking
from the American pulpit!

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE WAY TO KEEP FRESH.

How to get out of the old rut without twisting off the wheel, or snapping the shafts, or breaking
the horse's leg, is a question not more appropriate to every teamster than to every Christian
worker. Having once got out of the old rut, the next thing is to keep out. There is nothing
more killing than ecclesiastical humdrum. Some persons do not like the Episcopal Church because
they have the same prayers every Sabbath, but have we not for the last ten years been hearing
the same prayers over and over again, the product of a self-manufactured liturgy that has not
the thousandth part of the excellency of those petitions that we hear in the Episcopal Church?

In many of our churches sinners hear the same exhortations that they have been hearing for
the last fifteen years, so that the impenitent man knows, the moment the exhorter clears his
throat, just what is going to be said; and the hearer himself is able to recite the exhortation
as we teach our children the multiplication table forward or backward. We could not understand
the doleful strain of a certain brother's prayer till we found out that he composed it on a
fast day during the yellow fever in 1821, and has been using it ever since.

There are laymen who do not like to hear a sermon preached the second time who yet give their
pastors the same prayer every week at the devotional meeting--that is, fifty-two times the
year, with occasional slices of it between meals. If they made any spiritual advancement, they
would have new wants to express and new thanksgivings to offer. But they have been for a decade
of years stuck fast in the mud, and they splash the same thing on you every week. We need a
universal church cleaning by which all canting and humdrum shall be scrubbed out.

If we would keep fresh, let us make occasional excursions into other circles than our own.
Artists generally go with artists, farmers with farmers, mechanics with mechanics, clergymen
with clergymen, Christian workers with Christian workers. But there is nothing that sooner
freshens one up than to get in a new group, mingling with people whose thought and work run
in different channels. For a change put the minister on the hay rack and the farmer in the
clergyman's study.

Let us read books not in our own line. After a man has been delving in nothing but theological
works for three months, a few pages in the Patent-office Report will do him more good than
Doctor Dick on "The Perseverance of the Saints." Better than this, as a diversion, is it to
have some department of natural history or art to which you may turn, a case of shells or birds,
or a season ticket to some picture gallery. If you do nothing but play on one string of the
bass viol, you will wear it out and get no healthy tune. Better take the bow and sweep it clear
across in one grand swirl, bringing all four strings and all eight stops into requisition.

Let us go much into the presence of the natural world if we can get at it. Especially if we
live in great thoroughfares let us make occasional flight to the woods and the mountains. Even
the trees in town seem artificial. They dare not speak where there are so many to listen, and
the hyacinth and geranium in flower pots in the window seem to know they are on exhibition.
If we would once in a while romp the fields, we would not have so many last year's rose leaves
in our sermons, but those just plucked, dewy and redolent.

We cannot see the natural world through the books or the eyes of others. All this talk about
"babbling brooks" is a stereotyped humbug. Brooks never "babble." To babble is to be unintelligent
and imperfect of tongue. But when the brooks speak, they utter lessons of beauty that the dullest
ear can understand. We have wandered from the Androscoggin in Maine to the Tombigbee in Alabama,
and we never found a brook, that "babbled." The people babble who talk about them, not knowing
what a brook is. We have heard about the nightingale and the morning lark till we tire of them.
Catch for your next prayer meeting talk a chewink or a brown thresher. It is high time that
we hoist our church windows, especially those over the pulpit, and let in some fresh air from
the fields and mountains.

CHAPTER XXVII.

CHRISTMAS BELLS.

The sexton often goes into the tower on a sad errand. He gives a strong pull at the rope, and
forth from the tower goes a dismal sound that makes the heart sink. But he can now go up the
old stairs with a lithe step and pull quick and sharp, waking up all the echoes of cavern and
hill with Christmas bells. The days of joy have come, days of reunion, days of congratulation.
"Behold I bring you good tidings of great joy that shall be to all people."

First, let the bells ring at the birth of Jesus! Mary watching, the camels moaning, the shepherds
rousing up, the angels hovering, all Bethlehem stirring. What a night! Out of its black wing
is plucked the pen from which to write the brightest songs of earth and the richest doxologies
of heaven. Let camel or ox stabled that night in Bethlehem, after the burden-bearing of the
day, stand and look at Him who is to carry the burdens of the world. Put back the straw and
hear the first cry of Him who is come to assuage the lamentation of all ages.

Christmas bells ring out the peace of nations! We want on our standards less of the lion and
eagle and more of the dove. Let all the cannon be dismounted, and the war horses change their
gorgeous caparisons for plough harness. Let us have fewer bullets and more bread. Life is too
precious to dash it out against the brick casements. The first Peace Society was born in the
clouds, and its resolution was passed unanimously by angelic voices, "Peace on earth, good-will
to men."

Christmas bells ring in family reunions! The rail trains crowded with children coming home.
The poultry, fed as never since they were born, stand wondering at the farmer's generosity.
The markets are full of massacred barnyards. The great table will be spread and crowded with
two, or three, or four generations. Plant the fork astride the breast bone, and with skillful
twitch, that we could never learn, give to all the hungry lookers-on a specimen of holiday
anatomy. Mary is disposed to soar, give her the wing. The boy is fond of music, give him the
drum stick. The minister is dining with you, give him the parson's nose. May the joy reach
from grandfather, who is so dreadful old he can hardly find the way to his plate, down to the
baby in the high chair with one smart pull of the table cloth upsetting the gravy into the
cranberry. Send from your table a liberal portion to the table of the poor, some of the white
meat as well as the dark, not confining your generosity to gizzards and scraps. Do not, as
in some families, keep a plate and chair for those who are dead and gone. Your holiday feast
would be but poor fare for them; they are at a better banquet in the skies.

Let the whole land be full of chime and carol. Let bells, silver and brazen, take their sweetest
voice, and all the towers of Christendom rain music.

We wish all our friends a merry Christmas. Let them hang up their stockings; and if Santa Claus
has any room for us in his sleigh, we will get in and ride down their chimney, upsetting all
over the hearth a thousand good wishes.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

POOR PREACHING.

There never was a time when in all denominations of Christians there was so much attractive
sermonizing as to-day. Princeton, and Middletown, and Rochester, and New Brunswick, are sending
into the ministry a large number of sharp, earnest, consecrated men. Stupidity, after being
regularly ordained, is found to be no more acceptable to the people than before, and the title
of Doctorate cannot any longer be substituted for brains. Perhaps, however, there may get to
be a surfeit of fine discourses. Indeed, we have so many appliances for making bright and incisive
preachers that we do not know but that after a while, when we want a sleepy discourse as an
anodyne, we shall have to go to the ends of the earth to find one; and dull sermons may be
at a premium, congregations of limited means not being able to afford them at all; and so we
shall have to fall back on chloral or morphine.

Are we not, therefore, doing a humanitarian work when we give to congregations some rules by
which, if they want it, they may always have poor preaching?

First. Keep your minister poor. There is nothing more ruinous than to pay a pastor too much
salary. Let every board of trustees look over their books and see if they have erred in this
direction; and if so, let them cut down the minister's wages. There are churches which pay
their pastors eight hundred dollars per annum. What these good men do with so much money we
cannot imagine. Our ministers must be taken in. If by occasional fasting for a day our Puritan
fathers in New England became so good, what might we not expect of our ministers if we kept
them in perpetual fast? No doubt their spiritual capacity would enlarge in proportion to their
shrinkage at the waistcoat. The average salary of ministers in the United States is about six
hundred dollars. Perhaps by some spiritual pile-driver we might send it down to five hundred
dollars; and then the millennium, for the lion by that time would be so hungry he would let
the lamb lie down inside of him. We would suggest a very economical plan: give your spiritual
adviser a smaller income, and make it up by a donation visit. When everything else fails to
keep him properly humble, that succeeds. We speak from experience. Fourteen years ago we had
one, and it has been a means of grace to us ever since.

Secondly. For securing poor preaching, wait on your pastor with frequent committees. Let three
men some morning tie their horses at the dominie's gate, and go in and tell him how to preach,
and pray, and visit. Tell him all the disagreeable things said about him for six months, and
what a great man his predecessor was, how much plainer his wife dressed, and how much better
his children behaved. Pastoral committees are not like the small-pox--you can have them more
than once; they are more like the mumps, which you may have first on one side and then on the
other. If, after a man has had the advantage of being manipulated by three church committees,
he has any pride or spirit left, better give him up as incorrigible.

Thirdly. To secure poor preaching, keep the minister on the trot. Scold him when he comes to
see you because he did not come before, and tell him how often you were visited by the former
pastor. Oh, that blessed predecessor! Strange they did not hold on to the angel when they had
him. Keep your minister going. Expect him to respond to every whistle. Have him at all the
tea parties and "the raisings." Stand him in the draught of the door at the funeral--a frequent
way of declaring a pulpit vacant. Keep him busy all the week in out-door miscellaneous work;
and if at the end of that time he cannot preach a weak discourse, send for us, and we will
show him how to do it. Of course there are exceptions to all rules; but if the plan of treatment
we have proposed be carried out, we do not see that any church in city or country need long
be in want of poor preaching.

CHAPTER XXIX.

SHELVES A MAN'S INDEX.

In Chelsea, a suburb of London, and on a narrow street, with not even a house in front, but,
instead thereof, a long range of brick wall, is the house of Thomas Carlyle. You go through
a narrow hall and turn to the left, and are in the literary workshop where some of the strongest
thunderbolts of the world have been forged. The two front windows have on them scant curtains
of reddish calico, hung at the top of the lower sash, so as not to keep the sun from looking
down, but to hinder the street from looking in.

The room has a lounge covered with the same material, and of construction such as you would
find in the plainest house among the mountains. It looks as if it had been made by an author
not accustomed to saw or hammer, and in the interstices of mental work. On the wall are a few
wood-cuts in plain frames or pinned against the wall; also a photograph of Mr. Carlyle taken
one day, as his family told us, when he had a violent toothache and could attend to nothing
else, it is his favorite picture, though it gives him a face more than ordinarily severe and
troubled.

In long shelves, unpainted and unsheltered by glass or door, is the library of the world-renowned
thinker. The books are worn, as though he had bought them to read. Many of them are uncommon
books, the titles of which we never saw before. American literature is almost ignored, while
Germany monopolizes many of the spaces. We noticed the absence of theological works, save those
of Thomas Chalmers, whose name and genius he well-nigh worshiped. The carpets are old and worn
and faded--not because he cannot afford better, but because he would have his home a perpetual
protest against the world's sham. It is a place not calculated to give inspiration to a writer.
No easy chairs, no soft divans, no wealth of upholstery, but simply a place to work and stay.
Never having heard a word about it, it was nevertheless just such a place as we expected.

We had there confirmed our former theory of a man's study as only a part of himself, or a piece
of tight-fitting clothing. It is the shell of the tortoise, just made to fit the tortoise's
back. Thomas Carlyle could have no other kind of a workshop. What would he do with a damask-covered
table, or a gilded inkstand, or an upholstered window? Starting with the idea that the intellect
is all and the body naught but an adjunct or appendage, he will show that the former can live
and thrive without any approval of the latter. He will give the intellect all costly stimulus,
and send the body supperless to bed. Thomas Carlyle taken as a premise, this shabby room is
the inevitable conclusion. Behold the principle.

We have a poetic friend. The backs of his books are scrolled and transfigured. A vase of japonicas,
even in mid-winter, adorns his writing desk. The hot-house is as important to him as the air.
There are soft engravings on the wall. This study-chair was made out of the twisted roots of
a banyan. A dog, sleek-skinned, lies on the mat, and gets up as you come in. There stand in
vermilion all the poets from Homer to Tennyson. Here and there are chamois heads and pressed
seaweed. He writes on gilt-edged paper with a gold pen and handle twisted with a serpent. His
inkstand is a mystery of beauty which unskilled hands dare not touch, lest the ink spring at
him from some of the open mouths, or sprinkle on him from the bronze wings, or with some unexpected
squirt dash into his eyes the blackness of darkness.

We have a very precise friend. Everything is in severe order. Finding his door-knob in the
dark, you could reason out the position of stove, and chair, and table; and placing an arrow
at the back of the book on one end of the shelf, it would fly to the other end, equally grazing
all the bindings. It is ten years since John Milton, or Robert Southey, or Sir William Hamilton
have been out of their places, and that was when an ignoramus broke into the study. The volumes
of the encyclopedias never change places. Manuscripts unblotted, and free from interlineation,
and labeled. The spittoon knows its place in the corner, as if treated by tobacco chewers with
oft indignity. You could go into that study with your eyes shut, turn around, and without feeling
for the chair throw yourself back with perfect confidence that the furniture would catch you.
No better does a hat fit his head, or shoe his foot, or the glove his hand, than the study
fits his whole nature.

We have a facetious friend. You pick off the corner of his writing table "Noctes Ambrosianæ"
or the London "Punch." His chair is wide, so that he can easily roll off on the floor when
he wants a good time at laughing. His inkstand is a monkey, with the variations. His study-cap
would upset a judge's risibilities. Scrap books with droll caricatures and facetiæ. An odd
stove, exciting your wonder as to where the coal is put in or the poker thrust for a shaking.
All the works of Douglass Jerrold, and Sydney Smith, and Sterne, the scalawag ecclesiastic.
India-rubber faces capable of being squashed into anything. Puzzles that you cannot untangle.
The four walls covered with cuts and engravings sheared from weekly pictorials and recklessly
taken from parlor table books. Prints that put men and women into hopeless satire.

We have a friend of many peculiarities. Entering his house, you find nothing in the place where
you expected it. "Don Quixote," with, all its windmills mixed up with "Dr. Dick on the Sacraments,"
Mark Twain's "Jumping Frog," and "Charnock on the Attributes." Passing across the room, you
stumble against the manuscript of his last lecture, or put your foot in a piece of pie that
has fallen off the end of the writing table. You mistake his essay on the "Copernican System"
for blotting paper. Many of his books are bereft of the binding; and in attempting to replace
the covers, Hudibras gets the cover which belongs to "Barnes on the Acts of the Apostles."
An earthquake in the room would be more apt to improve than to unsettle. There are marks where
the inkstand became unstable and made a handwriting on the wall that even Daniel could not
have interpreted. If, some fatal day, the wife or housekeeper come in, while the occupant is
absent, to "clear up," a damage is done that requires weeks to repair. For many days the question
is, "Where is my pen? Who has the concordance? What on earth has become of the dictionary?
Where is the paper cutter?" Work is impeded, patience lost, engagements are broken, because
it was not understood that the study is a part of the student's life, and that you might as
well try to change the knuckles to the inside of the hand, or to set the eyes in the middle
of the forehead, as to make the man of whom we speak keep his pen on the rack, or his books
off the floor, or the blotting paper straight in the portfolio.

The study is a part of the mental development. Don't blame a man for the style of his literary
apartments any more than you would for the color of his hair or the shape of his nose. If Hobbes
carries his study with him, and his pen and his inkstand in the top of his cane, so let him
carry them. If Lamartine can best compose while walking his park, paper and pencil in hand,
so let him ramble. If Robert Hall thinks easiest when lying flat on his back, let him be prostrate.
If Lamasius writes best surrounded by children, let loose on him the whole nursery. Don't criticise
Charles Dickens because he threw all his study windows wide open and the shades up. It may
fade the carpet, but it will pour sunshine into the hearts of a million readers. If Thomas
Carlyle chose to call around an ink-spattered table Goethe, and Schiller, and Jean Paul Frederick
Richter, and dissect the shams of the world with a plain goose-quill, so be it. The horns of
an ox's head are not more certainly a part of the ox than Thomas Carlyle's study and all its
appointments are a part of Thomas Carlyle.

The gazelle will have soft fur, and the lion a shaggy hide, and the sanctum sanctorum is the
student's cuticle.

CHAPTER XXX.

BEHAVIOR AT CHURCH.

Around the door of country meeting-houses it has always been the custom for the people to gather
before and after church for social intercourse and the shaking of hands. Perhaps because we,
ourselves, were born in the country and had never got over it, the custom pleases us. In the
cities we arrive the last moment before service and go away the first moment after. We act
as though the church were a rail-car, into which we go when the time for starting arrives,
and we get out again as soon as the depot of the Doxology is reached. We protest against this
business way of doing things. Shake hands when the benediction is pronounced with those who
sat before and those who sat behind you. Meet the people in the aisle, and give them Christian
salutation. Postponement of the dining hour for fifteen minutes will damage neither you nor
the dinner. That is the moment to say a comforting word to the man or woman in trouble. The
sermon was preached to the people in general; it is your place to apply it to the individual heart.

The church aisle may be made the road to heaven. Many a man who was unaffected by what the
minister said has been captured for God by the Christian word of an unpretending layman on
the way out.

You may call it personal magnetism, or natural cordiality, but there are some Christians who
have such an ardent way of shaking hands after meeting that it amounts to a benediction. Such
greeting is not made with the left hand. The left hand is good for a great many things, for
instance to hold a fork or twist a curl, but it was never made to shake hands with, unless
you have lost the use of the right. Nor is it done by the tips of the fingers laid loosely
in the palm of another. Nor is it done with a glove on. Gloves are good to keep out the cold
and make one look well, but have them so they can easily be removed, as they should be, for
they are non-conductors of Christian magnetism. Make bare the hand. Place it in the palm of
your friend. Clench the fingers across the back part of the hand you grip. Then let all the
animation of your heart rush to the shoulder, and from there to the elbow, and then through
the fore arm and through the wrist, till your friend gets the whole charge of gospel electricity.

In Paul's time he told the Christians to greet each other with a holy kiss. We are glad the
custom has been dropped, for there are many good people who would not want to kiss us, as we
would not want to kiss them. Very attractive persons would find the supply greater than the
demand. But let us have a substitute suited to our age and land. Let it be good, hearty, enthusiastic,
Christian hand-shaking.

Governor Wiseman, our grave friend at tea, broke in upon us at this moment and said: I am not
fond of indiscriminate hand-shaking, and so am not especially troubled by the lack of cordiality
on the part of church-goers. But I am sometimes very much annoyed on Sabbaths with the habit
of some good people in church. It may be foolish in me; but when the wind blows from the east,
it takes but little to disturb me.

There are some of the best Christian people who do not know how to carry themselves in religious
assemblage. They never laugh. They never applaud. They never hiss. Yet, notwithstanding, are
disturbers of public worship.

There is, for instance, the coughing brigade. If any individual right ought to be maintained
at all hazards, it is the right of coughing. There are times when you must cough. There is
an irresistible tickling in the throat which demands audible demonstration. It is moved, seconded
and unanimously carried that those who have irritated windpipes be heard. But there are ways
with hand or handkerchief of breaking the repercussion. A smothered cough is dignified and
acceptable if you have nothing better to offer. But how many audiences have had their peace
sacrificed by unrestrained expulsion of air through the glottis! After a sudden change in the
weather, there is a fearful charge made by the coughing brigade. They open their mouths wide,
and make the arches ring with the racket. They begin with a faint "Ahem!" and gradually rise
and fall through all the scale of dissonance, as much as to say: "Hear, all ye good people!
I have a cold! I have a bad cold! I have an awful bad cold! Hear how it racks me, tears me,
torments me. It seems as if my diaphragm must be split. I took this awful bad cold the other
night. I added to it last Sunday. Hear how it goes off! There it is again. Oh dear me! If I
only had 'Brown's troches,' or the syrup of squills, or a mustard plaster, or a woolen stocking
turned wrong side out around my neck!" Brethren and sisters who took cold by sitting in the
same draught join the clamor, and it is glottis to glottis, and laryngitis to laryngitis, and
a chorus of scrapings and explosions which make the service hideous for a preacher of sensitive
nerves.

We have seen people under the pulpit coughing with their mouth so far open we have been tempted
to jump into it. There are some persons who have a convenient ecclesiastical cough. It does
not trouble them ordinarily; but when in church you get them thoroughly cornered with some
practical truth, they smother the end of the sentences with a favorite paroxysm. There is a
man in our church who is apt to be taken with one of these fits just as the contribution box
comes to him, and cannot seem to get his breath again till he hears the pennies rattling in
the box behind him. Cough by all means, but put on the brakes when you come to the down grade,
or send the racket through at least one fold of your pocket-handkerchief.

Governor Wiseman went on further to say that the habits of the pulpit sometimes annoyed him
as much as the habits of the pew. The Governor said: I cannot bear the "preliminaries" of religious
service.

By common consent the exercises in the churches going before the sermon are called "preliminaries."
The dictionary says that a "preliminary" is that which precedes the main business. We do not
think the sermon ought to be considered the main business. When a pastor at the beginning of
the first prayer says "O God!" he has entered upon the most important duty of the service.
We would not depreciate the sermon, but we plead for more attention to the "preliminaries."
If a minister cannot get the attention of the people for prayer or Bible reading, it is his
own fault. Much of the interest of a service depends upon how it is launched.

The "preliminaries" are, for the most part, the time in which people in church examine their
neighbors' clothes. Milliners and tailors get the advantage of the first three-quarters of
an hour. The "preliminaries" are the time to scrutinize the fresco, and look round to see who
is there, and get yourself generally fixed.

This idea is fostered by home elocutionary professors who would have the minister take the
earlier exercises of the occasion to get his voice in tune. You must not speak out at first.
It is to be a private interview between you and heaven. The people will listen to the low grumble,
and think it must be very good if they could only hear it. As for ourselves, we refuse to put
down our head in public prayer until we find out whether or not we are going to be able to
hear. Though you preach like an angel, you will not say anything more important than that letter
of St. Paul to the Corinthians, or that Psalm of David which you have just now read to the
backs of the heads of the congregation. Laymen and ministers, speak out! The opening exercises
were not instituted to clear your voice, but to save souls. If need be, squeeze a lemon and
eat "Brown's troches" for the sake of your voice before you go to church; but once there, make
your first sentence resonant and mighty for God. An hour and a half is short time anyhow to
get five hundred or five thousand people ready for heaven. It is thought classic and elegant
to have a delicate utterance, and that loud tones are vulgar. But we never heard of people
being converted by anything they could not hear. It is said that on the Mount of Olives Christ
opened His mouth and taught them, by which we conclude He spake out distinctly. God has given
most Christians plenty of lungs, but they are too lazy to use them. There are in the churches
old people hard of hearing who, if the exercises be not clear and emphatic, get no advantage
save that of looking at the blessed minister.

People say in apology for their inaudible tones: "It is not the thunder that kills, but the
lightning." True enough; but I think that God thinks well of the thunder or He would not use
so much of it. First of all, make the people hear the prayer and the chapter. If you want to
hold up at all, let it be on the sermon and the notices. Let the pulpit and all the pews feel
that there are no "preliminaries."

CHAPTER XXXI.

MASCULINE AND FEMININE.

There are men who suppose they have all the annoyances. They say it is the store that ruffles
the disposition; but if they could only stay at home as do their wives, and sisters, and daughters,
they would be, all the time, sweet and fair as a white pond lily. Let some of the masculine
lecturers on placidity of temper try for one week the cares of the household and the family.
Let the man sleep with a baby on one arm all night, and one ear open to the children with the
whooping-cough in the adjoining apartment. Let him see the tray of crockery and the cook fall
down stairs, and nothing saved but the pieces. Let the pump give out on a wash-day, and the
stove pipe, when too hot for handling, get dislocated. Let the pudding come out of the stove
stiff as a poker. Let the gossiping gabbler of next door come in and tell all the disagreeable
things that neighbors have been saying. Let the lungs be worn out by staying indoors without
fresh air, and the needle be threaded with nerves exhausted. After one week's household annoyances,
he would conclude that Wall street is heaven and the clatter of the Stock Exchange rich as
Beethoven's symphony.

We think Mary of Bethany a little to blame for not helping Martha get the dinner. If women
sympathize with men in the troubles of store and field, let the men also sympathize with the
women in the troubles of housekeeping. Many a housewife has died of her annoyances. A bar of
soap may become a murderous weapon. The poor cooking stove has sometimes been the slow fire
on which the wife has been roasted. In the day when Latimer and Ridley are honored before the
universe as the martyrs of the fire, we do not think the Lord will forget the long line of
wives, mothers, daughters and sisters who have been the martyrs of the kitchen.

Accompanying masculine criticism of woman's temper goes the popular criticism of woman's dress.

A convention has recently been held in Vineland, attended by the women who are opposed to extravagance
in dress. They propose, not only by formal resolution, but by personal example, to teach the
world lessons of economy by wearing less adornment and dragging fewer yards of silk.

We wish them all success, although we would have more confidence in the movement if so many
of the delegates had not worn bloomer dress. Moses makes war upon that style of apparel in
Deuteronomy xxii. 5: "The woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto man." Nevertheless
we favor every effort to stop the extravagant use of dry goods and millinery.

We have, however, no sympathy with the implication that women are worse than men in this respect.
Men wear all they can without interfering with their locomotion, but man is such an awkward
creature he cannot find any place on his body to hang a great many fineries. He could not get
round in Wall street with eight or ten flounces, and a big-handled parasol, and a mountain
of back hair. Men wear less than women, not because they are more moral, but because they cannot
stand it. As it is, many of our young men are padded to a superlative degree, and have corns
and bunions on every separate toe from wearing shoes too tight.

Neither have we any sympathy with the implication that the present is worse than the past in
matters of dress. Compare the fashion plates of the seventeenth century with the fashion plates
of the nineteenth, and you decide in favor of our day. The women of Isaiah's time beat anything
now. Do we have the kangaroo fashion Isaiah speaks of--the daughters who walked with "stretched
forth necks?" Talk of hoops! Isaiah speaks of women with "round tires like the moon." Do we
have hot irons for curling our hair? Isaiah speaks of "wimples and crisping pins." Do we sometimes
wear glasses astride our nose, not because we are near-sighted, but for beautification? Isaiah
speaks of the "glasses, and the earrings, and the nose jewels." The dress of to-day is far
more sensible than that of a hundred or a thousand years ago.

But the largest room in the world is room for improvement, and we would cheer on those who
would attempt reformation either in male or female attire. Meanwhile, we rejoice that so many
of the pearls, and emeralds, and amethysts, and diamonds of the world are coming in the possession
of Christian women. Who knows but that the spirit of ancient consecration may some day come
upon them, and it shall again be as it was in the time of Moses, that for the prosperity of
the house of the Lord the women may bring their bracelets, and earrings, and tablets and jewels?
The precious stones of earth will never have their proper place till they are set around the
Pearl of Great Price.

CHAPTER XXXII.

LITERARY FELONY.

We have recently seen many elaborate discussions as to whether plagiarism is virtuous or criminal--in
other words, whether writers may steal. If a minister can find a sermon better than any one
he can make, why not preach it? If an author can find a paragraph for his book better than
any he can himself manufacture, why not appropriate it?

That sounds well. But why not go further and ask, if a woman find a set of furs better than
she has in her wardrobe, why not take them? If a man find that his neighbor has a cow full
Alderney, while he has in his own yard only a scrawny runt, why not drive home the Alderney?
Theft is taking anything that does not belong to you, whether it be sheep, oxen, hats, coats
or literary material.

Without attempting to point put the line that divides the lawful appropriation of another's
ideas from the appropriation of another's phraseology, we have only to say that a literary
man always knows when he is stealing. Whether found out or not, the process is belittling,
and a man is through it blasted for this world and damaged for the next one. The ass in the
fable wanted to die because he was beaten so much, but after death they changed his hide into
a drum-head, and thus he was beaten more than ever. So the plagiarist is so vile a cheat that
there is not much chance for him, living or dead. A minister who hopes to do good with each
burglary will no more be a successful ambassador to men than a foreign minister despatched
by our government to-day would succeed if he presented himself at the court of St. James with
the credentials that he stole from the archives of those illustrious ex-ministers, James Buchanan
or Benjamin Franklin.

What every minister needs is a fresh message that day from the Lord. We would sell cheap all
our parchments of licensure to preach. God gives his ministers a license every Sabbath and
a new message. He sends none of us out so mentally poor that we have nothing to furnish but
a cold hash of other people's sermons. Our haystack is large enough for all the sheep that
come round it, and there is no need of our taking a single forkful from any other barrack.
By all means use all the books you can get at, but devour them, chew them fine and digest them,
till they become a part of the blood and bone of your own nature. There is no harm in delivering
an oration or sermon belonging to some one else provided you so announce it. Quotation marks
are cheap, and let us not be afraid to use them. Do you know why "quotation" marks are made
up of four commas, two at the head of the paragraph adopted and two at the close of it? Those
four commas mean that you should stop four times before you steal anything.

If there were no question of morals involved, plagiarism is nevertheless most perilous. There
are a great many constables out for the arrest of such defrauders. That stolen paragraph that
you think will never be recognized has been committed to memory by that old lady with green
goggles in the front pew. That very same brilliant passage you have just pronounced was delivered
by the clergyman who preached in that pulpit the Sabbath before: two thieves met in one hen-roost.
All we know of Doctor Hayward of Queen Elizabeth's time is that he purloined from Tacitus.
Be dishonest once in this respect, and when you do really say something original and good the
world will cry out, "Yes, very fine! I always did like Joseph Addison!"

Sermons are successful not according to the head involved in them, but according to the heart
implied, and no one can feel aright while preaching a literary dishonesty. Let us be content
to wear our own coat, though the nap on it is not quite as well looking, to ride on our own
horse, though he do not gallop as gracefully and will "break up" when others are passing. There
is a work for us all to do, and God gives us just the best tools to do it. What folly to be
hankering after our neighbor's chalk line and gimlet!

CHAPTER XXXIII.

LITERARY ABSTINENCE.

It is as much an art not to read as to read. With what pains, and thumps, and whacks at school
we first learned the way to put words together!

We did not mind so much being whipped by the schoolmaster for not knowing how to read our lesson,
but to have to go out ourselves and cut the hickory switch with which the chastisement was
to be inflicted seemed to us then, as it does now, a great injustice.

Notwithstanding all our hard work in learning to read we find it quite as hard now to learn
how not to read. There are innumerable books and newspapers from which one had better abstain.

There are but very few newspapers which it is safe to read all through, though we know of one
that it is best to peruse from beginning to end, but modesty forbids us stating which one that
is. In this day readers need as never before to carry a sieve.

It requires some heroism to say you have not read such and such a book. Your friend gives you
a stare which implies your literary inferiority. Do not, in order to answer the question affirmatively,
wade through indiscriminate slush.

We have to say that three-fourths of the novels of the day are a mental depletion to those
who read them. The man who makes wholesale denunciation of notion pitches overboard "Pilgrim's
Progress" and the parables of our Lord. But the fact is that some of the publishing houses
that once were cautious about the moral tone of their books have become reckless about every
thing but the number of copies sold. It is all the same to them whether the package they send
out be corn starch, jujube paste or hellebore. They wrap up fifty copies and mark them C.O.D.
But if the expressman, according to that mark, should collect on delivery all the curses that
shall come on the head of the publishing house which printed them, he would break down his
wagon and kill his horses with the load. Let parents and guardians be especially watchful.
Have a quarantine at your front door for all books and newspapers. Let the health doctor go
abroad and see whether there is any sickness there before you let it come to wharfage.

Whether young or old, be cautious about what you read in the newspapers. You cannot day after
day go through three columns of murder trial without being a worse man than when you began.
While you are trying to find out whether Stokes was lying in wait for Fisk, Satan is lying
in wait for you. Skip that half page of divorce case. Keep out of the mud. The Burdell and
Sickles cases, through the unclean reading they afforded to millions of people long ago, led
their thousands into abandoned lives and pitched them off the edge of a lost eternity. With
so much healthful literature of all sorts, there is no excuse for bringing your minds in contact
with evil. If there were a famine, there might be some reason for eating garbage, but the land
is full of bread. When we may, with our families, sit around the clean warm fire-hearth of
Christian knowledge, why go hunting in the ash barrels for cinders?

CHAPTER XXXIV.

SHORT OR LONG PASTORATES.

The question is being discussed in many journals, "How long ought a minister to stay in one
place?" Clergymen and laymen and editors are wagging tongue and pen on the subject--a most
practical question and easy to answer. Let a minister stay in a place till he gets done--that
is, when he has nothing more to say or do.

Some ministers are such ardent students of the Bible and of men, they are after a twenty-five
years' residence in a parish so full of things that ought to be said, that their resignation
would be a calamity. Others get through in three months and ought to go; but it takes an earthquake
to get them away. They must be moved on by committees, and pelted with resolutions, stuck through
with the needles of the ladies' sewing society, and advised by neighboring ministers, and hauled
up before presbyteries and consociations; and after they have killed the church and killed
themselves, the pastoral relation is dissolved.

We knew of a man who got a unanimous call. He wore the finest pair of gaiters that ever went
into that pulpit; and when he took up the Psalm book to give out the song, it was the perfection
of gracefulness. His tongue was dipped in "balm of a thousand flowers," and it was like the
roll of one of Beethoven's symphonies to hear him read the hardest Bible names, Jechonias,
Zerubbabel and Tiglath-pileser. It was worth all the salary paid him to see the way he lifted
his pocket-handkerchief to his eyelids.

But that brother, without knowing it, got through in six weeks. He had sold out his entire
stock of goods, and ought to have shut up shop. Congregations enjoy flowers and well-folded
pocket-handkerchiefs for occasional desserts, but do not like them for a regular meal. The
most urbane elder was sent to the minister to intimate that the Lord was probably calling him
to some other field, but the elder was baffled by the graciousness of his pastor, and unable
to discharge his mission, and after he had for an hour hemmed and hawed, backed out.

Next, a woman with a very sharp tongue was sent to talk to the minister's wife. The war-cloud
thickened, the pickets were driven in, and then a skirmish, and after a while all the batteries
were opened, and each side said that the other side lied, and the minister dropped his pocket-handkerchief
and showed his claws as long as those of Nebuchadnezzar after he had been three years eating
grass like an ox. We admire long pastorates when it is agreeable to both parties, we know ministers
who boast they have been thirty years in one place, though all the world knows they have been
there twenty-nine years too long. Their congregations are patiently waiting their removal to
a higher latitude. Meanwhile, those churches are like a man with chronic rheumatism, very quiet--not
because they admire rheumatism, but because there is no use kicking with a swollen foot, since
it would hurt them more than the object assaulted.

If a pastorate can be maintained only through conflict or ecclesiastical tyranny, it might
better be abandoned. There are many ministers who go away from their settlements before they
ought, but we think there are quite as many who do not go soon enough. A husband might just
as well try to keep his wife by choking her to death with a marriage ring as a minister to
try to keep a church's love by ecclesiastical violence. Study the best time to quit.

CHAPTER XXXV.

AN EDITOR'S CHIP-BASKET.

