FIRE PREVENTION

AND

FIRE EXTINCTION.

BY

JAMES BRAIDWOOD,

FIRST SUPERINTENDENT OF THE LONDON FIRE-BRIGADE, AND ASSOCIATE OF THE INSTITUTION OF CIVIL
ENGINEERS.

INCLUDING

FIRE-PROOF STRUCTURES, FIRE-PROOF SAFES, PUBLIC FIRE BRIGADES, PRIVATE MEANS FOR SUPPRESSING
FIRES, FIRE-ENGINES, FIRE ANNIHILATORS, PORTABLE FIRE-ESCAPES, WATER SUPPLY

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS, MEMOIR, AND PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR.

LONDON: BELL AND DALDY, 186, FLEET STREET. 1866.

[The right of Translation is reserved.]

CONTENTS.

MEMOIR.
                                                                  PAGE

Introductory, Early Fires, Fire Engines, and Fire Brigades           5

Mr. Braidwood's birth and education                                  7

Great Fire of Edinburgh, and appointment as head of Brigade          8

Award of Silver Medal of Society of Arts, London; publication of work on Fire Engines     
11

Formation of London Fire Brigade; appointment as Superintendent     13

Testimonials received upon leaving Edinburgh                        14

London residence and routine of duty                                16

Valuable services of the Royal Society for the Protection of Life from Fire               
17

Statistics of Fires; improvement of Fire Engines                    18

Introduction of ladders, hose reel, and hand pump                   19

Floating Fire Engines, hand worked and steam; Land Steam Fire Engine                      
20

Inspection of Government Dockyards and Public Buildings; establishment of a standard hose coupling
21

Admitted an Associate of the Institution of Civil Engineers; award of Telford Medal; endeavours
to restrain the erection of immoderate-sized warehouses                                      22

His opinion as to the inadequacy of London Fire Brigade; Great Tooley Street Fire         
23

Death of Mr. Braidwood                                              24

Public funeral                                                      25

Public and private character                                        28

World-wide esteem in which he was held                              30

Poem--A True Hero                                                   32

FIRE PREVENTION, INCLUDING FIREPROOF STRUCTURES--CAUSES OF FIRES.

Inattention in the use of fires and lights                          33

Advantages of a legal inquiry into the cause of Fires               37

Improper construction of buildings                                  37

Acts of Parliament for buildings in London                          39

Results of improper construction of warehouses in Liverpool         41

Arrangements for the safety of the audience in theatres             42

Danger from furnaces and close fires                                43

Danger from pipes conveying products of combustion                  44

Spontaneous ignition; use of gas                                    45

Incendiarism; monomania                                             46

FIREPROOF STRUCTURES.

What is fireproof construction                                      47

Use of cast and wrought-iron                                        49

Mr. Fairbairn's experiments                                         50

Danger to life from use of cast-iron columns                        54

Report on warehouses                                                55

Covering timber with iron                                           56

Fireproof dwelling-houses                                           57

Fireproof safes                                                     58

FIRE EXTINCTION, INCLUDING FIRE BRIGADES, FIRE ENGINES, AND WATER SUPPLY--FIRE BRIGADES.

Individual exertions for Fire Extinction                            59

Fire Brigades on the Continent of Europe, in England, in America    66

Necessity for the control of arrangements by one individual         67

Proposal for a national system                                      68

Fire Engines at noblemen's and gentlemen's residences               70

Training and discipline of Firemen                                  71

General instructions for Firemen, and for the use of Fire Engines   72

Necessity for the water striking the burning materials              74

Inventions for elevating branch pipes considered                    76

LONDON FIRE BRIGADE.

General description of men and engines                              79

Division of London into districts                                   81

General regulations                                                 82

Conditions of entrance into the establishment                       83

Outline of general duty                                             85

Duties of Superintendent                                            88

   "      Foremen                                                   90

   "      Engineers                                                 93

   "      Sub-Engineers and Firemen                                 94

EDINBURGH FIRE BRIGADE.

Description of men selected                                         96

Mode of communicating with Firemen at a Fire                        97

Dress and drill of Firemen                                          99

Gymnastic exercises                                                104

General regulations                                                106

Duties of Police                                                   107

   "      Superintendent of Brigade                                109

   "      Head Enginemen                                           110

   "      Firemen, and High Constables                             111

   "      Magistrates, and Gas-Light Companies                     113

Special regulations for Firemen                                    114

Means of escape from Fire                                          118

FIRE ENGINES.

The application of manual power                                    123

Engines used by the British Government                             124

Description of Brigade Fire Engine                                 126

Hand Pump; keeping Fire Engines in order                           130

Selection of Engine House                                          132

Apparatus provided with London Brigade Engine                      133

Leather hose                                                       134

Hose couplings                                                     140

Suction pipes                                                      143

Jet pipes, proper shape                                            145

Fire annihilator                                                   149

WATER SUPPLY.

By pressure, from surface of ground, and by sunk tanks             150

Experiments with jets under a constant pressure                    153

Fire plug used in London                                           155

Canvas cistern and stand-cock used with fire plug                  156

Double fire-cock used in the Government Dockyards                  158

Double hollow key fire-cock used in the British Museum             159

Supply by Water Companies in London                                162

Supplying Fire Engines from fire-cocks, &c.                        163

APPENDIX.

Steam Fire Engines, progress in construction                       166

Trials before the Jury of the International Exhibition, 1862       168

Trials at the International Competition, London, 1863              173

Steam Fire Engines in use by Metropolitan Brigade, May, 1866       181

Act of Parliament for Metropolitan Fire Brigade                    182

Establishment of Metropolitan Fire Brigade                         197

ILLUSTRATIONS.

                                                                  PAGE

Portrait of Mr. Braidwood on steel by Jeens, from a photograph by Williams                
Frontispiece.

Longitudinal section of Brigade Fire Engine                        124

Transverse section of ditto                                        125

Old coupling for hose                                              140

New ditto, ditto                                                   141

Branch and jet pipe                                                145

Opening in sunk tank for suction pipe                              151

Fire plug used in London                                           155

Fire plug with canvas cistern                                      156

Fire plug with stand-cock                                          157

Single fire-cock                                                   158

Double fire-cock used at dockyards                                 158

Double fire-cock used at British Museum                            159

EDITOR'S PREFACE.

The appearance at the beginning of last year, in the Annual Report of the Institution of Civil
Engineers for 1861 and 1862, of a short memoir of Mr. Braidwood, suggested the publication
of a more extended account of the life of the late head of the London Fire Brigade, combined
with his opinions upon the subject of his profession.

These opinions are comprised in a work on "Fire Engines, and the Training of Firemen," published
in Edinburgh in 1830; two papers upon cognate subjects read before the Institution of Civil
Engineers, two similar papers read before the Society of Arts, and in a variety of reports
upon public buildings, warehouses, &c. While regretting the great loss that the public has
sustained, in being deprived by Mr. Braidwood's sudden death of a complete record of his long
and varied London experience, it has been considered advisable to republish the above materials
arranged in a systematic form, omitting only such parts as the Author's more matured experience
rendered desirable, but confining the whole to his own words.

LONDON,

  June, 1866.

AUTHOR'S PREFACE

To his work "On the Construction of Fire-Engines and Apparatus; the Training of Firemen; and
the Method of Proceeding in cases of Fire," published in Edinburgh, in 1830.

Not having been able to find any work on Fire-Engines in the English language, I have been
led to publish the following remarks, in the hope of inducing others to give further information
on the subject.

For the style of the work I make no apology; and as I presume no one will read it except for
the purpose of gaining information, my aim will be obtained if I shall have succeeded in imparting
it, or in directing the public attention to the advantage which may be derived from the systematic
training of Firemen.

MEMOIR

OF

JAMES BRAIDWOOD.

The history of mankind, from the earliest times, has been one of alternate peace and war with
fire. The immeasurable value of its obedience, and the fearful consequences of its insubordination,
have, in all ages, made its due subjection one of the most important conditions of even human
existence itself. As camps and trading stations grew into populous cities, the dangers of fire
were both multiplied and aggravated. Its ravages in the ancient capitals of the world are matters
of history; and it is established that something like organization was extended to the means
then employed for suppressing conflagrations. Even the fire-engine itself, in a practicable,
although imperfect form, was described and illustrated by a sectional working drawing, by Hero
of Alexandria, in a book written by him more than one hundred years before the Christian era.
In its many translations, from the original Greek into Latin and into modern tongues, Hero's
book, with its remarkable series of drawings, still occupies a place in the mechanical literature
of our own time. But, although the construction of the fire-engine was thus known two thousand
years ago, we have no actual evidence of its use until within the last two centuries; and within
the whole compass of English history, at least, we know that nothing like discipline and organization,
in the modern sense of the terms, were introduced into the management of fire apparatus until
a time quite within the recollection of the middle-aged men of our own day. If there be anything
apparently improbable in this fact, we need only recollect that many of the grandest triumphs
of human genius, with which we are already so familiar, are not yet forty years old. The modern
system of English fire brigades belongs wholly to the period of railways, steam navigation,
and electric telegraphs, and it owes nearly all to the genius and disciplined heroism of a
single individual, James Braidwood, who, but little more than four years ago, fell--as nobly
for himself as sadly for others--at his chosen post of duty. What, when he first gave his energies--indeed,
his whole heart to it, was but the rough and unskilful employment of the fireman, became under
Mr. Braidwood's command and his infusing spirit of order and intelligence, as distinguished
from reckless daring, a noble pursuit, almost rising in dignity to a profession, and indeed
acknowledged as such by many, and significantly, although indirectly, by Royalty itself.

Until the year 1833, not only the parish engines of the metropolis, numbering, as they did,
about three hundred, but the engines also of the Fire Insurance Companies, were comparatively
inefficient and often out of order, while they were also under the most diverse, if not irresponsible
management. There were no really trained firemen, and those who controlled and worked the engines
were oftener in antagonism with each other than acting in concert. The parish engines were
in the care of the beadles, and in one case a beadle's widow, Mrs. Smith, for some years commanded
one of the city engines. The energies of each band of firemen were commonly reserved for the
protection of property only in which their own insurance company or parish was immediately
interested. As a rule, whatever water was thrown upon a burning building was dashed against
the walls, windows, and roof from the outside only, very little if any really reaching the
actual seat of the fire within. As a consequence, fires, which are now quickly "got under,"
were then left to burn themselves out, the spreading of the fire being prevented either by
deluging the contiguous buildings with water, or by pulling them down altogether.

James Braidwood was born in Edinburgh in the year 1800. His father was a well-known upholsterer
and builder, who appears to have chosen for his son the profession of a surveyor. To this end
he was entered at the High School, then under the rectorship of Mr. (afterwards Professor)
Pillans, and here, and subsequently under private masters, the youth received a sound education
in the branches most appropriate to his intended pursuit in life. He was for some time engaged
in his father's business, and thereby gained an amount of practical knowledge, which was of,
perhaps, as much service to him in his subsequent career as a fireman, as it would have been
had he adopted the profession originally chosen for him. Young Braidwood was an apt student,
a fact, perhaps, sufficiently attested afterwards by his successful authorship, at the age
of thirty, of the only English work then extant upon the fire-engine and its proper management.
He read much, wrote well, was a good draughtsman, and had a sound knowledge of mechanics. But
whether his powers required wider scope than a surveyor's practice could offer, or whether,
more than forty years ago, and in Edinburgh, the chances of professional success were very
much less than now, James Braidwood soon turned his mind to what became the great work of his
life. He was becoming known for activity and a high order of personal courage, and there were
those in place and power who saw in him the other elements of character which go to make a
successful leader of men. He was soon, and when but twenty-three years of age, made the superintendent
of the Edinburgh fire engines, and he almost as soon began to reform their inefficient and
vicious system of management. He had held his post but three weeks, however, when the series
of fires broke forth which still bear the name of the Great Fire of Edinburgh. Many of the
old and lofty houses in the High Street were destroyed, between four and five hundred families
were made houseless, ten persons were either killed outright or fatally injured, and for several
days nearly the whole of the High Street, if not the larger part of the old town, was threatened
with destruction. Never were the consequences of want of organization more conspicuous. There
was no real command, for there were none to obey; and while those who might have stopped the
flames at the outset, wasted their own energies in random efforts, or, perhaps, fell to quarrelling
among themselves, the fearful devastation rolled on. The occasion was sufficient to induce
the authorities and insurance companies to listen to and profit by Mr. Braidwood's recommendations.
They consented to bear in common the expenses necessary to organize and maintain an efficient
brigade. This was soon formed of picked men, who, although daily engaged in their former ordinary
occupations, were regularly inspected, trained, and exercised early in one morning of every
week. Fires were becoming more and more numerous year by year; but the influence of the improved
system was soon felt. The men were taught to improve to the utmost the first few minutes after
an alarm was given, and by constant emulation and discipline, a spirit of wonderful readiness
was cultivated in them. They were trained to seek out and follow up the source of a fire before
it had had time to spread, and to throw the water from the engines directly upon it, instead
of wastefully, if not injuriously about. The result was, that while out of forty-eight fires
which happened in the first year of the history of the brigade, eleven proved total losses,
and twelve "considerable" losses, the number of total losses decreased rapidly, year by year,
while the whole number of "calls" was almost as rapidly increasing. Thus in the second year
of the brigade there were eighty "calls," of which seven were total, and eighteen considerable
losses. In the next three years, with from ninety-four to one hundred and ninety-four "calls"
yearly, there was but one total loss in each year, and but from nine to eighteen "considerable"
losses.

Mr. Braidwood was meanwhile improving the fire-escapes, and when new engines were added to
the force, he procured better workmanship. By his personal influence, also, more than by the
mere advantage of official position, Mr. Braidwood secured the constant co-operation of the
police in giving the earliest alarms of fire, and in facilitating the labours of the firemen
when actually on duty. As has just been shown, the results of method, applied skill, and of
a personal devotion cultivated under the high impulse of immediate public observation and approval,
were soon manifest. To this vast improvement the Edinburgh Mercury, as representing the opinion
of the citizens of the Scottish capital, bore public testimony in its issue of August 14, 1828,
when the Fire Brigade of that city had been tested by nearly five years of constant trial,
and with conspicuous success. Referring to the excellent organization of the establishment,
it was remarked that there were then but few, if any, serious fires in Edinburgh, for when
a fire broke out--and the alarms were as frequent as ever--it was speedily checked. Said the
writer:--

     "Not only is the apparatus constructed on the best possible
     principles, but the whole system of operations has been
     changed. The public, however, do not see the same bustle, or
     hear the same noise as formerly; and hence they seem
     erroneously to conclude that there is nothing done. The fact
     is, the spectator sees the preparation for action made, but
     he sees no more. Where the strength of the men and the
     supply of water used to be wasted, by being thrown against
     windows, walls, and roofs, the firemen now seek out the spot
     where the danger lies, and creeping on hands and feet into a
     chamber full of flame, or smoke, often at the hazard of
     suffocation, discover the exact seat of danger; and, by
     bringing the water in contact with it, obtain immediate
     mastery over the powerful element with which they have to
     contend. In this daring and dangerous work men have
     occasionally fainted from heat, or dropped down from want of
     respiration, in which cases the next person at hand is
     always ready to assist his companion, and to release him
     from his service of danger."

In a fire which happened while Mr. Braidwood was at the head of the Edinburgh Brigade, he won
great admiration by bringing out from the burning building a quantity of gunpowder which was
known to be stored there. He would not ask any of his men to undertake this dangerous feat,
but, amidst the breathless suspense of thousands of spectators, he coolly searched for and
safely carried out, first one, and then a second, cask of this explosive material. Had the
fire reached the powder, it was known that the worst consequences of the conflagration would
have been immensely increased.

The fame of the Edinburgh Brigade rapidly spread throughout the kingdom, and it gradually became
regarded as a model to which all other organizations for the suppression of fires would ultimately
be made to conform. As a response to constant inquiries from a distance, Mr. Braidwood, in
1829, forwarded to the Society of Arts, London, a description of his chain-ladder fire-escape.
For this invaluable apparatus, which had already effected a considerable saving of life, the
Society's Silver Medal was awarded, and, accompanying the award, the Council of the Society
extended an invitation to the author to "give a complete account of his mode of drilling firemen,
and combining the use of fire-escapes with the ordinary fire-engine service." From this work,
which may still be regarded as an authority, extensive extracts have been made in the subsequent
chapters of the present volume, and it need not, therefore, be further referred to here than
to say that it formed a thoroughly original account of an original system, and that its illustrations,
which were especially clear, were drawn by the author's own hand. This work attracted much
attention from municipal bodies and insurance companies throughout the kingdom, and more than
one official deputation visited Edinburgh to learn from Mr. Braidwood himself the details of
a system which was already working such important results. In London, especially, three West
India warehouses had been burnt in the year 1829, with a loss of 300,000l.; and with the extending
use of gas, the increasing frequency of fires, and the conspicuous inefficiency of the parish
engines, and the want of unity of action among the insurance companies, it was felt that what
had answered so well in Edinburgh would prove still more valuable in the metropolis. The general
estimation in which Mr. Braidwood's services were then held may be considered as expressed
in the following, among other contemporary reviews of his book:--

     "The Edinburgh Fire-engine Establishment is now all but
     perfect. A unity of system has been accomplished, and a
     corps of firemen mustered, who, in point of physical vigour
     and moral intrepidity, are all entitled to be denominated
     chosen men. At the head of this band stands Mr. Braidwood,
     an individual who has on several occasions given abundant
     evidence of promptitude in extremity, and a noble contempt
     of personal danger, and whose enthusiasm, in what we may
     call his profession, could not have been more strikingly
     exemplified than by his illustrating it in the manner we now
     see before us. It is the only book we are acquainted with
     that treats of the systematic training of firemen; and from
     the perspicuity of its details, it must necessarily become
     the manual of all such institutions, and ought to find a
     place in every insurance office in the United Kingdom."

It had been from time to time attempted to bring the fire apparatus of the London Insurance
Companies under a single management; but it was nearly ten years after the establishment of
the Edinburgh Fire Brigade, and only when Mr. Braidwood himself had been invited to come to
London, that this was at last effected. As for the parish engines, they were wholly neglected
under this arrangement, and, indeed, a great number of them had been already allowed to fall
into disuse, as far as could be permitted without incurring the penalties of the Statutes of
1774. On the 1st January, 1833, at the instance of Mr. Ford, of the Sun Fire-office, eight
of the insurance companies formed an association of fire-engines and firemen, each company
withholding its own distinctive name and badges from the united force. This was known as the
London Fire-engine Establishment. It was supported by the companies in common, each in proportion
to the premiums received from its business in London, a minimum rate being fixed. Each company
contributing to the support of the establishment nominated one member of the committee of management.
This association existed for thirty-three years, when on the 1st of January, 1866, the Metropolitan
Board of Works took charge of the fire-engines and the general fire establishment of the metropolis.
Mr. Braidwood took the command of the London Brigade thus formed at the onset. The Edinburgh
Fire-engine Committee, on accepting his resignation, presented him with a gold watch, and a
vote of thanks, "for the singularly indefatigable manner in which he had discharged the duties
of his important office, not merely by his extraordinary exertions on occasions of emergency,
but for the care and attention he had bestowed on the training of the firemen, whereby the
establishment had been brought to its present high state of efficiency." He had previously
received from the men under him a handsome silver cup, bearing the following inscription:--"Presented
to Mr. James Braidwood, by the City of Edinburgh Firemen, as a token of their admiration of
him as their leader, and of deep respect for him as a gentleman."

As in Edinburgh, the London Fire Brigade under Mr. Braidwood's superintendence became a new
force, and in every respect a remarkable organization. Where the inefficiency of the old firemen
could not at once be made to yield to discipline, they were pensioned off; and within a short
time a select band of active, hardy, and thoroughly trained men was formed. In 1834, the second
year of Mr. Braidwood's superintendence, the Houses of Parliament were burnt; and a most destructive
fire occurred also at Mile-end. The first-named fire created general consternation, and there
are many persons who can still recollect that also at Mile-end. These great fires stimulated
Mr. Braidwood to increased exertions, and the result was soon visible in the lessened proportion
of totally destroyed premises to the whole number of fires. The brigade had, of course, no
power of prevention, and alarms of fire were becoming more numerous than ever. The use of friction
matches and of gas was increasing enormously; manufactures, and the steam-engines and machinery
for conducting them, were being rapidly multiplied; and with the vast progress making in the
production of cotton goods, the use of cotton curtains and bed-furniture was becoming common
in dwellings forming a large proportion of the metropolis, but in which, not long before, such
articles were either regarded as luxuries or were altogether unknown. The total number of fires
attended by the brigade in the year 1833, exclusive of chimneys on fire, was 458, while in
1851 the number had risen to 928; and although London had been growing all this time, it had
not doubled in size to correspond with the increased number of fires. But while the total yearly
number of fires, since the formation of the brigade, has shown a large and hardly interrupted
increase, the number of cases of total destruction has almost as steadily diminished. Thus,
"totally destroyed" was reported of 31 fires in the year 1833, whereas in 1839 there were but
17 cases, and the average for twenty-one years, from 1833 to 1853 inclusive, was but 25-1/2
yearly, while at the present time, with all the vast growth of London, the average, under the
continuance of Mr. Braidwood's system, is hardly if at all greater.

Mr. Braidwood from the first exhibited excellent judgment in his choice of men to serve under
him. He chose sailors, as a rule, as being accustomed to obedience, and to irregular and prolonged
duty, while also they were especially hardy and active; and where there was especial danger
which must be met, he was always ready to lead, and his men had soon learned to confide in
his quick and sound judgment in emergency, knowing that he would never permit them to incur
needless risk. His own iron constitution, and his habits of constant vigilance, served as a
high standard and incentive to those about him; and thus it was, by selection, discipline,
and example, resting upon a foundation of even paternal kindness, that the men of the London
Fire Brigade became conspicuous for their courage, energy, hardihood, and unalterable devotion
to duty. The brigade, too, was most popular with the public, and could always count upon any
necessary assistance in their labours. The system of rewards given to whoever was the first
to bring a call of fire, the liberal gratuity to the policeman who first reached the burning
premises, there preventing undue confusion, and by keeping the street-door closed, shutting
off a strong draught of air from the flames, and the handsome pay to the ready throng of strong-armed
men who worked the engines, secured every co-operation from the public, beyond that naturally
springing from a general admiration of so brave and well-trained a body of men.

Mr. Braidwood's residence was at the principal station of the Fire-engine Establishment in
Watling-street. To this station came all alarms of fire. He attended in person all calls from
leading thoroughfares, public buildings, or localities where a serious conflagration might
be expected. In the night a call was announced to him through a speaking-tube reaching to his
bedside. The gas in his room was always burning, and he would quickly decide, from the known
locality of the fire, and from the report given, whether he need go himself. In any case, his
men were awake and quickly away. Rapidity in dressing, and in horseing and mounting the engines,
was but a detail of daily drill. The moment the scene of action was reached, nothing was allowed
to stand in the way of access to the actual seat of the fire, and nothing either in securing
a supply of water. The inmates of the premises, if any, were quickly got out, and wherever
an unhappy creature was cut off by the flames, there were always one or more firemen ready,
if necessary, to brave an apparently certain death in a heroic attempt at rescue--an attempt,
indeed, which but seldom failed. It is but just to say here that the firemen were always nobly
seconded, if not indeed anticipated, in these attempts by the officers and men of the Royal
Society for the Protection of Life from Fire--a body which has long rendered priceless services
to humanity under most appalling circumstances. The men of the Fire Brigade were taught to
prevent, as much as possible, the access of air to the burning materials. What the open door
of the ash pit is to the furnace of a steam-boiler the open street door is to the house on
fire. In both cases the door gives vital air to the flames. The men of the Brigade were trained
to pursue a fire, not yet under full headway, up-stairs and down, in at windows and out through
the roof, anywhere, so it could be reached directly by the water from the engines. They were
made to regard it as worse than a waste to throw even a gallon of water upon a dead wall or
upon a surface of slate or plaster, so long as by any means the branch pipe could be got to
bear upon the seat of the fire itself. The statistics of the operations of the London Fire-engine
Establishment from 1833 to the present time, show with what success the system originated and
so admirably carried out by Mr Braidwood has been pursued. Of the whole number of fires not
one in fifty now proceeds to the extent of total destruction of the premises.

Previous to the organization of the Fire-engine Establishment there were no official annual
reports of the fires in the metropolis. No one person by himself was indeed in a position to
know all of the fires that happened, any more than, but for Lloyds', could we know of all the
wrecks which take place around and upon our coasts. It was impossible, under such a state of
things, that either the value of insurance to the insured or its risk to the insurer could
be rightly known. The general public could only know that, like fevers and certain other classes
of disease, fires were always breaking out, but no one could know, even approximately, how
great or how little was the real general risk. When, however, a fire establishment was formed,
the engines were called to all fires, whether of insured or uninsured property. It was not
now difficult to tabulate the number and localities of fires; but Mr. Braidwood went further,
and extended his yearly tables to include the various causes of fires, and the classification
of the premises, whether residences, shops, warehouses, manufactories, &c., where they occurred,
the subdivision of these classes being extended to every variety of occupation and business.
Even the hours at which the various fires broke out were carefully tabulated, and thus the
particulars of London fires soon became an important branch of statistics, from which the operations
of insurance have derived increased certainty, with greater economy to the insured.

Although regarding the training and discipline of firemen as of the first importance in the
organization of a fire brigade, Mr. Braidwood gave a large share of attention to the improvement
of fire-engines and their kindred appliances. While in Edinburgh, where the steepness of many
of the streets, and the roughness of the pavements in the older parts of the town prevented
the rapid and easy movement of heavy engines, he recommended and adopted a lighter description,
but in London he recognised the necessity for greater power. Mr. Tilley, then a fire-engine
maker in the Blackfriars'-road, ably seconded his efforts, and at length the distinctive type
known as the London Fire Brigade Engine was produced, and which, weighing about eighteen cwt.
when ready for service, would throw eighty-eight gallons of water per minute, and, in short
trials, as much as 120 gallons in the same time. This engine was mounted upon springs, and
in strength and ease of working presented a marked improvement upon those which had preceded
it. Its ordinary working complement of men was twenty-eight, and larger engines, upon the same
general design, have since been made, to be worked by from forty-five to sixty men. The steam
fire-engine has already, to a certain extent, superseded the brigade engine, but the latter
is still likely, for some time at least, to be preferred for a large class of fires, both in
London and in the provinces.

Mr. Braidwood at an early date adopted the ordinary military scaling ladders to the purposes
of his brigade, two being placed on each engine, and at his recommendation ladders were also
placed on a two-wheeled carriage as a convenient fire-escape. He also induced the Admiralty,
in 1841, to adopt hose-reels in the various dockyards, these implements having been previously
in successful use in New York. In 1848 he was induced, in consequence of the large number of
small fires to which his engines were called out, to adopt a small hand-pump as an auxiliary
to the fire-engine. This could be rapidly brought to bear, and although worked by but one man,
the value of a small quantity of water thrown directly upon the seat of a small fire was found
to be greater than that of perhaps twenty times as much when thrown about in the ordinary manner.
It was of great importance also in warehouses stored with valuable goods, to throw the least
necessary quantity of water upon a fire. These hand-pumps still form an important part of the
present apparatus of the brigade, and they have been widely adopted elsewhere.

London, unlike Edinburgh, has a vast water-side property, always exposed to danger from fire.
Almost immediately, therefore, after having taken the command of the London Brigade, Mr. Braidwood
directed his attention to the construction of improved floating fire-engines, to be moored
in the river, where they would be always available for the protection of wharf property. Two
were constructed, one being a machine of great power, with pumps made to be worked by 120 men.
These machines proved of great value. In 1852, shortly after the memorable fire at Humphrey's
warehouses, he persuaded the Fire-engine Committee to allow one of these engines to be altered
so as to work by steam, and in 1855 a large self-propelling floating steam fire-engine was
made upon a novel construction, and which, having already rendered great service at fires on
the river side, still ranks as the most powerful machine in the service of the brigade. With
locomotive boilers and large double steam engines, this float can steam nine miles an hour,
and when in place at a fire it can throw four streams of water, each from a jet-pipe of 1-1/2
inch in diameter, to a great distance. In the great fire of 1861, this floating engine was
worked with but little intermission for upwards of a fortnight. In 1860 Mr. Braidwood obtained
the sanction of the Fire-engine Committee for the introduction of a land steam fire-engine,
and although he did not live to witness the present remarkable development of these machines,
he was enabled to employ the first one in the brigade with much advantage.

We may quote here from a brief but excellent memoir of Mr. Braidwood, which appeared in the
annual report of the Institution of Civil Engineers for 1861:

     "As early as 1841, the Government began to profit by his
     experience, the Lords of the Admiralty having in that year
     consulted him on the subject of floating fire-engines for
     the various dockyards. These were eventually constructed
     from his designs and under his superintendence. In the
     following year he inspected all the dockyards, and reported
     fully on each, with regard to both floating and land
     fire-engines, the supply of water, the alterations of
     buildings to prevent spread of fire, and the proper care
     required in dangerous trades. From this time, although not
     holding any appointment, he acted as Government consulting
     engineer on all questions relating to fire prevention and
     extinction, and he advised from time to time the precautions
     to be taken for the protection of the royal palaces and
     various other public buildings. This position enabled him,
     not without a great deal of opposition, to induce the
     Government to adopt in all its departments a uniform size of
     hose-coupling. This is the one which he introduced in
     Edinburgh, and known as the London Fire Brigade coupling, is
     now in almost universal use; its application has been found
     comparatively of as much utility for fire-brigade purposes,
     as the adoption of the Whitworth gauges of screw-bolts for
     mechanical engineering.

     "Although so fully occupied, he never refused advice on
     professional matters to all who sought it. The various dock
     companies, public institutions, country fire brigades,
     private firms, &c., benefited largely by his experience. The
     numerous inquiries from foreign countries and the colonies
     with regard to the best means of extinguishing fires, also
     made great inroads on his time. In 1833 he became an
     Associate of the Institution of Civil Engineers, to which,
     in 1844, he contributed a valuable paper 'On the means of
     rendering large supplies of Water available in case of Fire,
     &c.,' for which he was awarded a Telford Medal; and in 1849
     a second paper 'On Fire-Proof Buildings.' In 1856, a paper
     on 'Fires: the best means of preventing and arresting them;
     with a few words on Fire-Proof Structures,' was read by him
     before the Society of Arts.

     "He took great interest in the passing of Acts of Parliament
     for regulating buildings in the metropolis, was consulted by
     the framers of these Acts, and used his utmost influence to
     prevent the endangering a whole neighbourhood by the
     erection of monster warehouses for private profit. He
     strongly contended for the principle of dividing buildings
     by party-walls carried through the roof, and restricting
     these divisions to a moderate cubic content. Writing to Lord
     Seymour, Commissioner of Woods and Forests, on the 28th
     June, 1851, he said 'that no preparations for contending
     with such fires will give anything like the security that
     judicious arrangements in the size and construction of
     buildings will do.' The wise provisions introduced through
     his instrumentality into these Acts of Parliament were
     continually being evaded, and clusters of warehouses quickly
     rose which he saw would, if on fire, defy all his means of
     extinction. In a letter to Sir W. Molesworth, First
     Commissioner of Public Works, dated 10th February, 1854, on
     the subject of a proposed warehouse in Tooley-street, he
     wrote 'The whole building, if once fairly on fire in one
     floor, will become such a mass of fire that there is now no
     power in London capable of extinguishing it, or even of
     restraining its ravages on every side, and on three sides it
     will be surrounded by property of immense value.' How
     literally this was realized, and at what cost, was shown by
     the great warehouse fire in Tooley-street, on the 22nd June,
     1861, at which Mr. Braidwood lost his life."

The great fire at Cotton's Wharf; Tooley-street, broke out on Saturday, June 22nd, 1861, and
continued to burn for more than a fortnight, consuming Scovell's, and other large warehouses,
and, in all, upwards of two millions' worth of property. The fire is believed to have originated
in the spontaneous combustion of hemp, of which upwards of 1000 tons were consumed, together
with 3000 tons of sugar, 500 tons of saltpetre, nearly 5000 tons of rice, 18,000 bales of cotton,
10,000 casks of tallow, 1100 tons of jute, and an immense quantity of tea, spices, &c., besides
many other descriptions of goods. Although discovered in broad daylight, and before the flames
had made any considerable headway, the want of a ready supply of water, and the fact that the
iron doors in the division walls between the several warehouses had been left open, taken in
connexion with the extremely combustible nature of the materials, soon rendered hopeless all
chance of saving the buildings and property. Mr. Braidwood was upon the spot very soon after
the alarm had been given, and nearly the whole available force of the Fire-engine Establishment
was summoned at his command. He appears to have at once foreseen that the fire would be one
of no ordinary magnitude, and that the utmost that could be done would be to prevent its extending
widely over adjoining property. The floating fire-engines had been got to bear upon the flames,
and the men in charge of the branch pipes were, after two hours' work, already suffering greatly
from the intense heat, when their chief went to them to give them a word of encouragement.
Several minor explosions, as of casks of tallow or of oil, had been heard, but as it was understood
that the saltpetre stored at the wharf was in buildings not yet alight, no alarm was then felt
as to the walls falling in. At the moment, however, while Mr. Braidwood was discharging this
his last act of kindness to his men, a loud report was heard, and the lofty wall behind him
toppled and fell, burying him in the ruins. Those of his men who were near him had barely time
to escape, and one person at his side, not a fireman, was overwhelmed with him. From the moment
when the wall was seen to fall, it was known that whoever was beneath it had been instantly
crushed to death. It is needless, and it would, indeed, be out of place, to describe here the
further progress of the fire, which had then but fairly begun, and which was still burning
more than a fortnight afterwards.

Great as was the general consternation at so terrible a conflagration, it is doubtful if the
public were not still more impressed by the dreadful death of Mr. Braidwood, and by a feeling
that his loss was a public misfortune. Her Majesty the Queen, with that ready sympathy which
she has ever shown for crushed or suffering heroism, commanded the Earl of Stamford to inquire
on the spot, on Monday, whether the body had yet been recovered by the firemen, and Her Majesty's
sympathies were also conveyed to Mrs. Braidwood. It was not, however, until the following morning,
that after almost constant exertions, under the greatest difficulties, the crushed remains
were rescued. An inquest was necessary, not merely to ascertain what was already well known,
that death had been instantly caused by accident, but to know whether culpable carelessness
of any kind had indirectly led to the sorrowful event. None, however, appeared. The remains
of the fallen chief were afterwards borne to his late residence in Watling-street. The members
of the committee of the London Fire-engine Establishment, formed of representatives from all
of the twenty-five insurance companies of London, had already met to express, by a formal resolution,
their sincere condolence with Mrs. Braidwood and her family. It was known that the funeral
would take place on Saturday, June 29th, and it was widely felt that a general expression of
sorrow and respect should be made, in view of the common loss of so valued a public servant,
as well as for the noble qualities for which he had been so long and so well known. On the
occasion of the funeral this was shown not more by the great length and marked character of
the cortége itself than by the general suspension of business in the leading thoroughfares
of the city through which it passed, and by the hushed demeanour of the countless multitude
who pressed closely upon the procession throughout its entire course. Among the thousands who
sadly led the way to the grave were the London Rifle Brigade, about 700 strong (and of which
Mr. Braidwood's three sons were members), the Seventh Tower-Hamlets, and other rifle corps,
upwards of 1000 constables of the metropolitan police force, besides nearly 400 members of
the city police, the superintendents and men of the various water companies, the secretary
and conductors and the band of the Royal Society for the Protection of Life from Fire, a large
number of private and local fire-brigades, and the members of the London Fire-engine Establishment.
The pall-bearers were six of Mr. Braidwood's engineers and foremen, some of whom were at his
side when he fell, and who had barely escaped with their own lives. Following the chief mourners
were the Duke of Sutherland, the Earl of Caithness, the Rev. Dr. Cumming, and a large number
of relatives and friends of the deceased, and the committee of the London Fire-engine establishment.
The procession was nearly one mile and a-half in length, and was about three hours in its progress
from Watling-street to Abney Park Cemetery, where the solemn service of the dead was conducted
by the Rev. Dr. Cumming, of whose congregation the deceased had long been a member. With the
exception of the great bell of St. Paul's, which tolls only on the occasion of the death of
a member of the royal family or of a lord-mayor in office, the bells of all the churches in
the city were booming slowly through the day, and so evident was the general sorrow that it
could be truly said that the heart of the nation mourned.

On Thursday, July 4th, a public meeting was held at the Mansion House, when resolutions were
passed for the collection of subscriptions towards a memorial to Mr. Braidwood's long and arduous
public services. This memorial, it was felt, should take the form of a permanent provision
for his family, for the post of Fire Brigade Superintendent had never been a lucrative one.
Before, however, the collection of subscriptions had extended beyond a few hundred pounds,
it was made known that the insurance companies had promptly settled upon Mrs. Braidwood the
full "value"--speaking in an insurable sense--of her husband's life. Mr. Braidwood had for
many years supported two maiden sisters, and the public subscription was applied, therefore,
to the purchase of small annuities for each of them.

It will be remembered that the London Fire-engine Establishment was from the first controlled
only by the insurance companies, upon whom of course, fell the whole cost of its maintenance.
Their interest in the suppression of fires, although direct and unmistakeable, was not the
same as that of the public. Thus, it would be to the public advantage that no fires should
happen, whereas such a result would be fatal to the insurance companies, since no one in that
case would insure. Although the protection of the Establishment was in practice extended alike
to both insured and uninsured property, the real object for which it was formed and maintained
was undoubtedly that of protecting insured property only. It was the interest of the companies
to incur as little expense as would, on the whole, fairly effect this purpose, and it was not
their interest to effectually protect the whole of the metropolis from fire. Thus it was that,
with all the excellence of the organization and discipline of the Fire-engine Establishment,
it was greatly inferior in extent to what was requisite for the proper security of the first
city in the world. Mr. Braidwood had long felt this truth, but, acting for a private association,
he could only go to the extent of the limited resources at his disposal. It was, more than
anything else, the great fire at Cotton's Wharf that first directed public attention to the
necessary insufficiency of any private establishment for the general suppression of fires,
and that has led to the legislation under which the Fire-engine Establishment was, on the 1st
of January last, taken over and extended by the Metropolitan Board of Works. London will now,
it is hoped, be better protected from fire, because of the increased extent of the means of
protection; but it can hardly be expected that the discipline of the brigade will be improved.

Apart from the public value of Mr. Braidwood's career in increasing the common security against
a common foe, there was much in his personal, intellectual, and moral qualities worthy of admiration.
He was a man of strong and commanding frame, of inexhaustible energy, and of enduring vitality.
The constitutions of but few men could have withstood such long continued wear and tear as
fell to his. He braved all weathers, all extremes of heat and cold, could sleep or wake at
will, and could work on long after others would have given way. He was always at his post,
and in no moment of difficulty or danger did his cool judgment or his steady courage forsake
him. It was this, together with his considerate bearing, and on occasions of special trial
his almost womanly kindness to his men, that inspired them with unlimited confidence in him
and in his plans. Beyond this, he was a man of superior mind, with strong comprehensive and
generalising faculties. His various published papers, and a correspondence of which but few
could know the extent and importance, as well as his ready, clear, and exact manner in stating
his views before committees and before those in authority, who so often consulted him, all
attest an order of mind which, in a different sphere, would alone have won distinction for
its possessor. His profession was one in which it happens that almost every person thinks himself
competent to give advice; yet, without any assumption of authority, Mr. Braidwood could make
it felt wherever he pleased that he was a master in the art of extinguishing fire. But he was
not on this account the less ready to listen to suggestions, and there are numbers who can
bear testimony to the patient, honest, and appreciative manner in which he considered the many
and diverse propositions submitted to him as the head of the Fire Brigade of the first city
in the world. The soundness of his views and opinions is sufficiently attested by the success
of his practice--a success which, but for the Government tax upon fire policies, would have
long since made fire insurance in London almost the cheapest of all the forms of protection
of property from danger. The London Brigade was insignificant in numbers and tame in display
when compared with the eight hundred sapeurs pompiers of Paris, with their parade and all their
accessories of effect--insignificant and tame, too, after the glittering apparatus, imposing
paraphernalia, and deafening clatter of the "Fire Department" of New York; but Mr. Braidwood's
chosen men knew how to do their duty, and considering the differences in the mode of building
and of heating, and in the extent of lighting in the three great metropoli just named, it is
an easy matter, on reference to statistics, to prove that none others have done better.

Above all, Mr. Braidwood was a gentleman of deep Christian feeling; and those who knew him
best had never doubted that, had it been his lot to linger long in pain, knowing the end that
was to come, his calm but unwavering faith in a better future would have sustained him through
all. Brought up from childhood in the faith of the Scotch church, he was a regular attendant
upon the ministrations of the Rev. Dr. Cumming. In his own quiet way he did much good in the
poorer districts of London, and he took a special interest in the ragged schools of the metropolis.
What he was in his own home may be best inferred from the crushing force with which his dreadful
yet noble fate fell upon those who were dearest to him. His family had already too much reason
to know the dangers which had always attended his career. A step-son had fallen, five years
before, in nearly the same manner, and now lies buried in the same grave. Eleven members, in
all, of the brigade, had perished in the discharge of their duty during the time Mr. Braidwood
had commanded it: a fact which, taken with daily experience, pointed to other victims to follow.
Such consolation, then, as a stricken widow and a mourning family could have, next to an abiding
faith in the goodness of God, was in the recollection of the virtues and noble qualities of
the husband and father, and in the spontaneous sorrow with which a great people testified their
sense of his worth and of their common loss.

To show the universal as well as national esteem in which Mr. Braidwood was held, two extracts
are here given from the numerous letters of condolence addressed to his bereaved family, from
all parts of the world. Mr. G. H. Allen, Secretary to the Boston (America) Fire Department,
writes: "It gives me pleasure to unite with the Board in testimony to the extreme kindness
of Mr. Braidwood in the conduct of our correspondence, whereby we have been greatly benefited
and received extensive information. Allow me also to extend our sympathy to those who have
lost one who will ever be remembered as standing at the head of the most valued arm of the
Government, and one that you can hardly expect to be replaced, except by years of experience
and great natural ability." Mr. T. J. Bown, Superintendent of the Sydney (Australia) Fire Brigade,
in a letter dated 22nd August 1861, says, "On receipt of the sad news, our large fire-bell
was tolled, the British ensign hoisted half-mast high, and crape attached to the firemen's
uniform, as a token of respect for one of the noblest and most self-denying men that ever lived,
who spent and lost his life in the service of his fellow-creatures."

A TRUE HERO.

JAMES BRAIDWOOD.--Died, June 22nd, 1861.

By the Author of

"JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

    Not at the battle front,--
      Writ of in story;
    Not on the blazing wreck,
      Steering to glory;

    Not while in martyr pangs
      Soul and flesh sever,
    Died he--this Hero new--
      Hero for ever.

    No pomp poetic crown'd,
      No forms enchained him,
    No friends applauding watched,
      No foes arraigned him:

    Death found him there, without
      Grandeur or beauty,
    Only an honest man
      Doing his duty:

    Just a God-fearing man,
      Simple and lowly,
    Constant at kirk and hearth,
      Kindly and holy:

    Death found--and touched him with
      Finger in flying:--
    So he rose up complete--
      Hero undying.

    Now, all mourn for him,
      Lovingly raise him
    Up from his life obscure,
      Chronicle, praise him;

    Tell his last act, done midst
      Peril appalling,
    And the last word of cheer
      From his lips falling;

    Follow in multitudes
      To his grave's portal;
    Leave him there, buried
      In honour immortal.

    So many a Hero walks
      Daily beside us,
    Till comes the supreme stroke
      Sent to divide us.

    Then the Lord calls His own,--
      Like this man, even,
    Carried, Elijah-like,
      Fire-winged, to heaven.

    Macmillan's Magazine, Vol. IV., page 294.

FIRE PREVENTION

INCLUDING

FIRE-PROOF STRUCTURES.

To prevent fires it is necessary to consider what are the principal causes of such calamities.
These may be classed under several heads:--

     1. Inattention in the use of fires and lights.

     2. Improper construction of buildings, &c.

     3. Furnaces or close fires for heating buildings, or for
     mechanical purposes.

     4. Spontaneous ignition.

     5. Incendiarism.

As almost all fires arise from inattention in one shape or another, it is of the utmost importance
that every master of a house or other establishment should persevere in rigidly enjoining and
enforcing on those under him, the necessity of observing the utmost possible care in preventing
such calamities, which, in nineteen cases out of twenty, are the result of remissness or inattention.
Indeed, if any one will for a moment consider the fearful risk of life and property, which
is often incurred from a very slight inattention, the necessity of vigilance and care will
at once be apparent. Immense hazard is frequently incurred for the most trifling indulgences,
and much property is annually destroyed, and valuable lives often lost, because a few thoughtless
individuals cannot deny themselves the gratification of reading in bed with a candle beside them.

Some years ago, upwards of 100,000l. were lost, through the partner of a large establishment
lighting gas with a piece of paper, which he threw away, and thus set fire to the premises,
although it was a strict rule in the place that gas should only be lighted with tapers, which
were provided for that purpose. In one department of a great public institution, it was, and
is still, a rule that only covered lights should be carried about, and for that purpose four
lanterns were provided; yet, on inquiry some time back, it was found that only one was entire,
the other three being broken--one having lost two sides and the top; still they were all used
as covered lights.

The opportunities for inattention to fires and lights are so various, that it is impossible
to notice the whole.

One of the prevailing causes of fire is to be traced to persons locking their doors, and leaving
their houses to the care of children. I believe one-half of the children whose deaths are occasioned
by accident suffer from this cause alone: indeed, almost every week the newspapers contain
some melancholy confirmation of what I have here stated. Intoxication is also a disgraceful
and frequent cause of fire. The number of persons burned to death in this way is really incredible.
It is true that it does not always happen that a fire takes place in the house, in either of
the above cases, although the unfortunate beings whose clothes take fire, rarely escape with
their lives; but the danger to the neighbourhood is at all times considerable, if persons in
a state of inebriety are left in a house alone. When there is reason to apprehend that any
member of a family will come home at night in that state, some one should always be appointed
to receive him, and on no account to leave him till he is put to bed, and the light extinguished.

I do not mean to say that people must be actually drunk before danger is to be apprehended
from them. Indeed, a very slight degree of inebriety is dangerous, as it always tends to blunt
the perception, and to make a person careless and indifferent. I may also add, that no inconsiderable
number of fires are occasioned by the thoughtless practice of throwing spirits into the fire.
The dresses of females taking fire adds very much to the list of lives lost by fire, if it
does not exceed all the other causes put together.

Another very general cause of fire is that of approaching with lighted candles too near bed
or window curtains; these, being generally quite dry, are, from the way in which they are hung,
easily set on fire, and, as the flames ascend rapidly, when once touched, they are in a blaze
in a moment.

It is really astonishing to find that, with daily examples before their eyes, people should
persist (whether insured or not seems to make little difference) in practices which, there
is a hundred chances to one, may involve both themselves and the neighbourhood in one common
ruin. Of this sort are the practices of looking under a bed with a lighted candle, and placing
a screen full of clothes too near the fire.

Houses not unfrequently take fire from cinders falling between the joints of the outer and
inner hearths. When smoke is observed to arise from the floor, the cause should be immediately
ascertained, and the inmates ought on no account to retire to rest while there is the slightest
smell of fire, or any grounds to suspect danger from that cause.

Occasional fires are caused by a very absurd method of extinguishing at night the fires kept
in grates during the day. Instead of arranging the embers in the grate in such a way as to
prevent their falling off, and thus allowing the fire to die out in its proper place, they
are frequently taken off and laid on the hearth, where, should there be wood-work underneath,
it becomes scorched, and the slightest spark falling through a joint in the stones sets it on fire.

A very frequent cause of fire in shops and warehouses arises from the carelessness of the person
intrusted to lock them up. It is no uncommon practice with those to whom this duty is intrusted,
to light themselves out, or to search for any little article which may have been mislaid, with
a lighted paper, and then to throw it carelessly on the floor, imagining they have taken every
necessary precaution, merely by setting their foot upon it, forgetting that the current of
air occasioned by shutting the door frequently rekindles it, and produces the most serious
consequences.

In warehouses and manufactories, fires are not unfrequently caused by the workmen being occasionally
kept late at work. By the time their task is finished, the men are so tired and sleepy, that
the extinguishing of fires and lights is done in a very careless manner. I recollect an instance
of this sort, in which the flames were issuing from three upper windows, and observed by the
neighbours, while the workmen engaged at their employment in the lower floors knew nothing
of the destruction that was going on above.

A very serious annual loss is also caused by want of due care in handing up or removing the
goods in linen-drapers' shop windows when the gas is burning. Flues taking fire often result
in mischief and it is believed that many serious fires have arisen from this cause, which can
hardly be called accidental, as, if flues are properly constructed, kept moderately clean,
and fairly used, they cannot take fire.

From what has been said, it will be seen that care and attention may do a very great deal towards
the prevention of fire, and consequent loss of life. It is very easy to make good rules, and
keep them for a time, after having been alarmed by some serious loss of property or life, but
the difficulty is to maintain constant attention to the subject. The most evident plan for
effecting this seems to be, for the masters thoroughly to examine and consider the subject
at certain stated periods, not too far apart, and to constantly warn their domestics, workmen,
or others, of the danger of the improper use of fires and lights.

One of the greatest preventives of carelessness in the use of fires and lights would be a legal
inquiry in every case, as it would not only show the faults that had been committed, and thus
warn others, but the idea of being exposed in the newspapers would be another motive for increased
care. This plan has been adopted in New York, and the reports of the proceedings of Mr. Baker,
the "Fire Marshal," show that the inquiries there made have led to most useful results. Mr.
Payne, the coroner, held inquests on fires in the City of London some years ago, but the authorities
would not allow his expenses, and therefore they were given up, although believed to be highly
advantageous in explaining accidental and others causes of fire.

The improper construction of buildings more generally assists the spread than is the original
cause of fires, although laying hearths on timber, and placing timber too near flues, are constant
causes of fire, and it is believed that many melancholy occurrences have arisen from these
and similar sources.

One cause of danger from chimneys arises from the communication which they often have with
each other in one gable. The divisions or partitions, being very often found in an imperfect
state, the fire communicates to the adjoining chimney, and in this way sometimes wraps a whole
tenement in flames. I know a division of a principal street in Edinburgh, in which there is
scarcely a single chimney-head that is not more or less in this condition; and I have no doubt
that this is not an uncommon case. There is also great danger from the ends of joists, safe-lintels,
or other pieces of timber, being allowed to protrude into chimneys. In one instance which came
under my notice, a flue passing under the recess of a window had on the upper side no other
covering than the wood of the floor; of course, when the chimney took fire the floor was immediately
in a blaze: but there are many instances of such carelessness. It is a common practice amongst
carpenters to drive small pieces of wood into walls for the purpose of fixing their work, not
paying the least attention as to whether the points run into the flues or not.

In the repairs and alterations of old buildings, house-carpenters are, if possible, even more
careless in this particular, than in the construction of new.

I know of two different buildings which underwent some alterations. In both of these, safe-lintels
had been run into flues, and both of them, after the alterations, took fire; the one in consequence
of a foul chimney, which set fire to the lintel; and although the other did not take fire from
the same cause, the lintel was nevertheless very much scorched, and obliged to be removed.

Great carelessness is frequently exhibited by builders, when erecting at one time two or three
houses connected by mutual gables, by not carrying up the gables, or party-walls, so as to
divide the roofs. I have seen more than one instance where the adjoining house would have been
quite safe, but for this culpable neglect. It is no uncommon thing, too, to find houses divided
only by lath and standard partitions, without a single brick in them. When a fire occurs in
houses divided in this manner, the vacuities in the middle of the partitions act like so many
funnels to conduct the flame, thereby greatly adding to the danger from the fire, and infinitely
increasing the difficulty of extinguishing it.

In London the Building Act forbids all such proceedings, but the District Surveyors do not
seem to have sufficient power, or be able to pay sufficient attention to such matters, as they
are constantly met with at fires. A very flagrant case of laying a hearth on timber was lately
exposed by a fire in the City. Due notice was given of the circumstance, but no farther attention
was paid to the matter than to make the proprietor construct the floor properly, although the
Act gave power to fine for such neglect. The omission is to be regretted, as there could not
have been a better case for warning others; it occurred in a very large establishment, and
the work was done by one of the first builders in the City. Had this fire taken place in the
night and gained some head, it would have been very difficult to have ascertained the cause.
As the premises were situated, a serious loss of life might have occurred, the apartment in
which the fire originated being the only means of retreat which ten or twelve female servants
had from their bedrooms.

The Metropolitan Building Acts, up to about the year 1825, by insisting upon party-walls and
other precautions, were invaluable for the prevention of the spread of fires. By them no warehouse
was permitted to exceed a certain area. From the year 1842, the area has been exchanged for
a specified number of cubic feet. But since 1825, a class of buildings has arisen of which
there are now considerable numbers in the City, called Manchester or piece goods warehouses,
which somehow have been exempted from the law restricting the extent of warehouses, on the
plea that they are not warehouses, because "bulk is broken" in them, although it is thoroughly
understood that the legislature intended by the Act to restrict the amassing such a quantity
of goods under one roof as would be dangerous to the neighbourhood.

Manchester and piece goods warehouses have for some time past been built in London of unlimited
size, sometimes equal to twenty average houses. This is pretty nearly the same as if that number
of houses were built without party-walls, only that it is much worse, for the whole mass generally
communicates by well holes and open staircases, and thus takes fire with great rapidity, and,
from the quantity of fresh air within the building, the fire makes much greater progress before
it is discovered. By this means the risk of fire in the City has been greatly increased, not
only to such warehouses themselves, but to the surrounding neighbourhood, for it is impossible
to say how far fires of such magnitude may extend their ravages under untoward circumstances,
there being at present no preventive power in London capable of controlling them. To provide
such a power would be a very costly business.

Such buildings are also against the generally received rule, that a man may burn himself and
his own property, but he shall not unduly risk the lives and property of his neighbours.

The new Building Act is likely to repress, to a certain extent, this great evil, unless its
meaning be subverted by some such subterfuge as destroyed the efficiency of the last one. But
what is to be done with those which are already built? It may seem tedious to dwell so much
on this subject, but it appears to be a risk which is not generally much thought of, though
it is of the most vital importance to the safety of London. It is very desirable that the metropolis
should take warning by the experience of Liverpool, without going through the fiery ordeal
which the latter city did.

From 1838 to 1843, 776,762l. were lost in Liverpool by fire, almost entirely in the warehouse
risks. The consequence was, that the mercantile rates of insurance gradually rose from about
8s. per cent. to 30s., 40s., and, it is said, in some cases, to 45s. per cent. Such premiums
could not be paid on wholesale transactions, therefore the Liverpool people themselves obtained
an Act of Parliament, 6 and 7 Vic., cap. 109, by which the size and height of warehouses were
restricted, party walls were made imperative, and warehouses were not allowed to be erected
within thirty-six feet of any other warehouse, unless the whole of the doors and window-shutters
were made of wrought iron, with many similar restrictions. This Act applied to warehouses already
built as well as to those to be built, and any tenant was at liberty, after notice to his landlord,
to alter his warehouse according to the Act, and to stop his rent till the expense was paid.
Another Act, 6 and 7 Vic., cap. 75, was also obtained, for bringing water into Liverpool for
the purpose of extinguishing fires and watering the streets only. It is supposed that the works
directed, or permitted, by these two Acts, cost the people of Liverpool from 200,000l. to 300,000l.
Shortly after these alterations had been made, the mercantile premiums again fell to about
8s. per cent.

There is another very common cause of fire, which seems to come under the head of construction--viz.,
covering up a fireplace when not in use with wood or paper and canvas, &c. The soot falls into
the fireplace, either from the flue itself, or from an adjoining one which communicates with
it. A neighbouring chimney takes fire; a spark falls down the blocked-up flue, sets fire to
the soot in the fireplace, which smoulders till the covering is burned through, and thus sets
fire to the premises.

In theatres, that part of the house which includes the stage and scenery should be carefully
divided from that where the spectators assemble by a solid wall carried up to, and through
the roof. The opening in this wall for the stage should be arched over, and the other communications
secured with iron doors, which would be kept shut while the audience was in the house. By this
plan, there would be abundance of time for the spectators to retire, before fire could reach
that part of the theatre which they occupy.

The danger from furnaces or close fires, whether for heating, cooking, or manufacturing purposes,
is very great, and no flue should be permitted to be so used, unless it is prepared for the
purpose. The reason is, that in a close fire the whole of the draught must pass through the
fire. It thus becomes so heated that, unless the flue is properly built, it is dangerous throughout
its whole course. In one instance of a heating furnace, the heat in the flue was found to be
300°, at a distance of from forty to fifty feet from the fire. In open fireplaces, the quantity
of cold air carried up with the draught keeps the flue at a moderate heat, from the fire upwards,
and, unless the flue is allowed to become foul, and take fire, this is the safest possible
mode of heating.

Heating by hot air, steam, and hot water are objectionable. First, because there must be a
furnace and furnace flue, and the flue used is generally that built for an open fire only;
and second, the pipes are carried in every direction, to be as much out of sight as possible.
By this means they are constantly liable to produce spontaneous ignition, for there appears
to be some chemical action between heated iron and timber, by which fire is generated at a
much lower temperature than is necessary to ignite timber under ordinary circumstances. No
satisfactory explanation of this fact has yet been given, but there is abundant proof that
such is the case. In heating by hot-water pipes, those hermetically sealed are by far the most
dangerous, as the strength of the pipes to resist the pressure is the only limit of the heat
to which the water, and of course the pipes, may be raised. In some cases a plug of metal which
fuses at 400° is put into the pipes, but the heat to which the plug is exposed will depend
very much on where it is placed, as, however great may be the heat of the exit pipe, the return
pipe is comparatively cool. But even where the pipes are left open, the heat of the water at
the furnace is not necessarily 212°. It is almost needless to say that 212° is the heat of
boiling water under the pressure of one atmosphere only; but if the pipes are carried sixty
or seventy feet high, the water in the furnace must be under the pressure of nearer three atmospheres
than one, and therefore the heat will be proportionately increased. Fires from pipes for heating
by hot water have been known to take place within twenty-four hours after first heating, and
some after ten years of apparent safety.

The New Metropolitan Building Act prescribes rules for the placing steam, hot-air, and hot-water
pipes at a certain distance from timber; but as it must be extremely difficult for the District
Surveyors to watch such minute proceedings, it becomes every one who is anxious for safety
to see that the District Surveyors have due notice of any operation of this kind.

Another cause of fire which may come under this head is the use of pipes for conveying away
the products of combustion. Every one is acquainted with the danger of stove pipes, but all
are not perhaps aware that pipes for conveying away the heat and effluvia from gas-burners
are also very dangerous when placed near timber. It is not an uncommon practice to convey such
pipes between the ceiling and the flooring of the floor above. This is highly dangerous. Gas-burners
are also dangerous when placed near a ceiling. A remarkable instance of this took place lately,
where a gas-burner set fire to a ceiling 28-1/2 inches from it.

Another evil of furnaces is, that the original fireplace is sometimes not large enough to contain
the apparatus, and the party wall is cut into. Perhaps it may be necessary to notice at this
point the use of gas, as it is becoming so very general. Gas, if carefully laid on, and properly
used, is safer than any other light, so far as actually setting fire to anything goes, but
the greater heat given out so dries up any combustibles within its reach, that it prepares
them for burning, and when a fire does take place, the destruction is much more rapid than
in a building lighted by other means. Gas-stoves, also, from the great heat given out, sometimes
cause serious accidents; in one instance, a gas-stove set fire to a beam through a two-and-half
inch York landing, well bedded in mortar, although the lights were five or six inches above
the stone. This is mentioned to show that gas-stoves require quite as much care as common fires.

Spontaneous ignition is believed to be a very fruitful cause of fires; but, unless the fire
is discovered almost at the commencement, it is difficult to ascertain positively that this
has been the cause. Spontaneous ignition is generally accelerated by natural or artificial
heat. For instance, where substances liable to spontaneous ignition are exposed to the heat
of the sun, to furnace flues, heated pipes, or are placed over apartments lighted by gas, the
process of ignition proceeds much more rapidly than when in a cooler atmosphere. Sawdust in
contact with vegetable oil is very likely to take fire. Cotton, cotton waste, hemp, and most
other vegetable substances are alike dangerous. In one case oil and sawdust took fire within
sixteen hours; in others, the same materials have lain for years, until some external heat
has been applied to them. The greater number of the serious fires which have taken place in
railroad stations in and near London have commenced in the paint stores. In a very large fire
in an oil warehouse, a quantity of oil was spilt the day before and wiped up, the wipings being
thrown aside. This was believed to have been the cause of the fire, but direct proof could
not be obtained. Dust-bins also very often cause serious accidents. In one instance, 30,000l.
to 40,000l. were lost, apparently from hot ashes being thrown into a dust-bin.

These accidents may in a great measure be avoided by constant care and attention to cleanliness,
and where paints and oils are necessary, by keeping them in some place outside the principal
buildings. Dust-bins should, as much as possible, be placed in the open air, and where that
cannot be done, they should be emptied once a day. No collection of rubbish or lumber of any
sort should be allowed to be made in any building of value.

Mr. Wyatt Papworth, architect, has published some very interesting notes on spontaneous ignition,
giving several well-authenticated instances.

Incendiarism may be divided into three sorts--malicious, fraudulent, and monomaniac. Of the
former there has been very little in London for many years. The second, however, is rather
prevalent. The insurance offices, which are the victims, protect themselves as well as they
can, but an inquest on each fire is the true mode of lessening the evil. This is much more
the interest of the public than at first seems to be the case. In several instances where the
criminals were brought to punishment by Mr. Payne's inquests, people were asleep in the upper
parts of the houses set fire to, and in one case there were as many as twelve or fifteen persons.
This, however, is seldom stated in the indictment, as, if it is, the punishment is still death
by the law, and it is supposed that a conviction is more easily obtained, by the capital charge
being waived. Monomania is a rare cause of incendiarism, but still several well-certified cases
have occurred in which no possible motive could be given. In one instance a youth of fifteen
set fire to his father's premises seven times within a few hours. In another, a young female
on a visit set fire to her friend's furniture, &c., ten or eleven times in the course of one
or two days. In neither case could anything like disagreement or harshness be elicited, but
the reverse. In other instances, it has been strongly suspected that this disease was the cause
of repeated fires, but there was no positive proof. In all these cases, known or suspected,
the parties were generally from fourteen to twenty years of age.

FIRE-PROOF STRUCTURES.

What is "Fire-proof Construction?" is a question which has given rise to a great deal of discussion,
simply, as it appears to me, because the size of the buildings, and the quantity and description
of the contents, have not always been taken into account. That which may be perfectly fireproof
in a dwelling house, may be the weakest in a large warehouse. Suppose an average-sized dwelling-house
20 × 40 × 50 = 40,000 cubic feet, built with brick partitions, stone or slate stairs, wrought-iron
joists filled in with concrete, and the whole well plastered. Such a house will be practically
fire-proof, because there is no probability that the furniture and flooring in any one room,
would make fire enough to communicate to another. But suppose a warehouse equal to twenty such
houses, with floors completely open, supported by cast-iron pillars, and each floor communicating
with the others by open staircases and wells; suppose, further, that it is half filled with
combustible goods, and perhaps the walls and ceilings lined with timber. Now, if a fire takes
place below, the moment it bursts through the upper windows or skylights, the whole place becomes
an immense blast furnace; the iron is melted, and in a comparatively short time the building
is in ruins, and, it may be, the half of the neighbourhood destroyed. The real fire-proof construction
for such buildings is groined brick arches, supported on brick pillars only. This mode of building,
however, involves so much expense, and occupies so much space, that it cannot be used with
advantage. The next best plan is to build the warehouses in compartments of moderate size,
divided by party-walls and double wrought-iron doors, so that if one of these compartments
takes fire, there may be a reasonable prospect of confining the fire to that compartment only.
Again, cast iron gives way from so many different causes, that it is impossible to calculate
when it will give way. The castings may have flaws in them; or they may be too weak for the
weight they have to support, being sometimes within 10 per cent., or less, of the breaking
weight. The expansion of the girders may thrust out the side walls. For instance, in a warehouse
120 feet × 75 feet × 80 feet, there are three continuous rows of girders on each floor, with
butt joints; the expansion in this case may be twelve inches. The tie rods to take the strain
of the flat arches must expand and become useless, and the whole of the lateral strain be thrown
on the girders and side walls, perhaps weak enough already. Again, throwing cold water on the
heated iron may cause an immediate fracture. For these and similar reasons, the firemen are
not permitted to go into warehouses supported by iron, when once fairly on fire.

Cast and wrought-iron have been frequently fused at fires in large buildings such as warehouses,
sugar houses, &c., but according to Mr. Fairbairn's experiments on cast iron in a heated state,
it is not necessary that the fusing point should be attained to cause it to give way.[A] He
also states, that the loss of strength in cold-blast cast iron, in a variation of temperature
from 26° to 190° = 164° Fahr., is 10 per cent., and in hot-blast at a variation of from 21°
to 190° = 169° Fahr., is 15 per cent.; now if the loss of strength advances in anything like
this ratio, the iron will be totally useless as a support, long before the fusing point is
attained.

Much confidence has been placed in wrought-iron tie or tension rods, to take the lateral strain
of the arches, and also in trusses to support the beams; but it must be evident that the expansion
of the iron from the heat, would render them useless, and under a high temperature, it would
be so great as to unsettle the brickwork, and accelerate its fall, on any part of the iron-work
giving way: again, the application of cold water to the heated iron, in an endeavour to extinguish
the fire, is almost certain to cause one or more fractures. The brick-arching is also very
liable to fall, especially if only four and a half inches thick, independently of the weight
which may be placed upon it, for it is not uncommon after a fire in a large building, to find
the mortar almost completely pulverized to the depth of three inches, or four inches, from
the face of the wall. When a fire occurred under one of the arches of the Blackwall Railway,
on the 15th July, 1843, a portion of the lower ring fell down, and also a few bricks from the
next ring.

Another very serious objection to buildings of this description, is that, unless scientifically
constructed, they are very unlikely to be safe, even for the common purposes intended, independent
of the risk of fire. In the Report of Sir Henry De la Bêche and Mr. Thomas Cubitt on the fall
of the mill at Oldham, in October, 1844,[B] it is stated that the strength of the iron-beams
was within ten per cent. of the breaking weight. Now according to Mr. Fairbairn's experiments
on heated iron, already referred to, an increase of temperature of only 170° would have destroyed
the whole building. It is quite clear, therefore, that so long as mill-owners and others continue
to construct such buildings without proper advice, they must be liable to these accidents.
In timber-floors there can be no such risk, as the strains are all direct, and any journeyman
carpenter, by following good examples, can ascertain the size required; and even if he makes
a mistake, the evil is comparatively trivial, as the timber will give notice before yielding,
and may be propped up for the time, until it can be properly secured. In the case of fire-proof
buildings, an ignorant person may make many mistakes without being aware that he has done so,
and the slightest failure is probably fatal to every one within the walls. This also increases
the difficulty and danger of extinguishing fires in a large building, as the only method of
doing so is for the firemen to enter it with their branches, and in case of the floors falling,
there is no chance of escape. On the other hand, timber-floors have repeatedly fallen while
the firemen were inside the building, and they have made their escape uninjured.

In a pamphlet published by Mr. S. Holme, of Liverpool, in 1844,[C] and which contains a report
from Mr. Fairbairn on fire-proof buildings, it is stated, that many people, especially in the
manufacturing districts, are their own architects; that the warehouses in Liverpool may be
loaded to one ton per yard of flooring; and that unless great care and knowledge are used in
the construction of fire-proof buildings, they are of all others the most dangerous.[D]

The following are the principles on which Mr. Fairbairn proposes to build fire-proof warehouses:--

     The whole of the building to be composed of non-combustible
     materials, such as iron, stone, or bricks.

     In order to prevent fire, whether arising from accident or
     spontaneous combustion, every opening, or crevice,
     communicating with the external atmosphere to be closed.

     An isolated staircase, of stone, or iron, well protected on
     every side by brick, or stone walls, to be attached to every
     story, and be furnished with a line of water-pipes,
     communicating with the mains in the street, and ascending to
     the top of the building.

     In a range of stores, the different warehouses to be divided
     by strong partition-walls, in no case less than eighteen
     inches thick, and no more openings to be made than are
     absolutely necessary for the admission of goods and light.

     That the iron columns, beams, and brick arches be of
     strength sufficient, not only to support a continuous dead
     pressure, but to resist the force of impact to which they
     are subject by the falling of heavy goods upon the floors.

     That in order to prevent accident from the columns being
     melted by intense heat in the event of fire in any of the
     rooms, a current of cold air should be introduced into the
     hollow of the columns, from an arched tunnel under the
     floors.

There is no doubt that if the second principle could be carried out, namely, the total exclusion
of air, the fire would go out of itself; but it seems, to say the least of it, very doubtful
indeed if this can be accomplished, and if it could, the carelessness of a porter leaving open
one of the doors or windows, would make the whole useless. The fifth principle shows that Mr.
Fairbairn has omitted to allow for the loss of strength the iron may sustain from the increase
of temperature. The last principle would not be likely to answer its purpose, even if it was
possible to keep these tunnels and hollow columns clear for a number of years, which is scarcely
to be expected. A piece of cast-iron pipe, one-and-a-half inch in diameter, was heated for
four minutes in a common forge, both ends being carefully kept open to the atmosphere, when,
on one end being fixed in a vice, and the other pulled aside by the hand, it gave way.

One of the principal objections to the kind of fire-proof buildings above described, is, that
absolute perfection in their construction is indispensable to their safety; whereas buildings
of a more common description are comparatively safe, although there may be some errors or omissions
in their construction. Indeed, Mr. Fairbairn states in the same Report, that "it is true that
negligence of construction on the one hand, and want of care in management on the other, might
entail risk and loss to an enormous extent."

The following is a very clear proof of the inability of cast iron to resist the effects of fire:--

"A chapel in Liverpool-road, Islington, seventy feet in length and fifty-two feet in breadth,
took fire in the cellar, on the 2nd October, 1848, and was completely burned down. After the
fire, it was ascertained that of thirteen cast-iron pillars used to support the galleries,
only two remained perfect; the greater part of the others were broken into small pieces, the
metal appearing to have lost all power of cohesion, and some parts were melted. It should be
observed, that these pillars were of ample strength to support the galleries when filled by
the congregation, but when the fire reached them, they crumbled under the weight of the timber
only, lightened as it must have been by the progress of the fire."

In this case it mattered little whether the pillars stood or fell, but it would be very different
with some of the large wholesale warehouses in the City, where numbers of young men sleep in
the upper floors; in several of those warehouses the cast-iron pillars are much less in proportion
to the weight to be carried than those referred to, and would be completely in the draught
of a fire. If a fire should unfortunately take place under such circumstances, the loss of
human life might be very great, as the chance of fifty, eighty, or one hundred people escaping
in the confusion of a sudden night alarm, by one or two ladders, to the roof, could scarcely
be calculated on, and the time such escape must necessarily occupy, independent of all chance
of accidents, would be considerable.

For the reasons here stated, I submit that large buildings, containing considerable quantities
of combustible goods, with floors of brick-arches, supported by cast-iron beams and columns,
are not, practically speaking, fire-proof; and that the only construction which would render
large buildings fire-proof; where considerable quantities of combustible goods are deposited,
would be groined brick-arches, supported by pillars of the same material, laid in proper cement.
I am fully convinced, from a lengthened experience, that the intensity of a fire,--the risk
of its ravages extending to adjoining premises, and also the difficulty of extinguishing it,
depend, cæteris paribus, on the cubic contents of the building which takes fire, and it appears
to me that the amount of loss would be very much reduced, if, instead of building immense warehouses,
which give the fire a fortified position, warehouses were made of a moderate size, with access
on two sides at least, completely separated from each other by party-walls, and protected by
iron-doors and window-shutters. In the latter case, the probability is, that not more than
one warehouse would be lost at a time, and perhaps that one would be only partially injured.

It is sincerely to be hoped that the clause in the last Metropolitan Building Act, restricting
the size of warehouses, may be more successful than its predecessor, for it is not only property
that is at stake, but human life. In many of these "Manchester warehouses," there are fifty
or one hundred and upwards of warehousemen and servants sleeping in the upper floors, whose
escape, in case of fire, would be very doubtful, to say the least of it.[E]

Covering timber with sheet-iron is very often resorted to as a protection against fire. I have
never found it succeed; but Dr. Faraday, Professor Brande, Dr. D. B. Reid, and Mr. W. Tite,
M.P., are of opinion that it may be useful against a sudden burst of flame, but that it is
worse than useless against a continued heat.

In wadding manufactories the drying-rooms were frequently lined with iron-plates, and when
a fire arose there, the part covered with iron was generally found more damaged than the rest;
the heat got through the sheet-iron, and burnt the materials behind it, and there was no means
of touching them with water until the iron was torn down; sheet iron should not, therefore,
be used for protecting wood.

Even cast iron, one inch thick, laid on tiles and cement three inches thick, has allowed fire
to pass through both, to the boarding and joisting below, merely from the fire in an open fire-place
being taken off and laid on the hearth. This arises from iron being so good a conductor that,
when heat is applied to it, it becomes in a very short time nearly as hot on the one side as
the other. If the smoke escapes up a chimney, or in any other way, there may be a serious amount
of fire before it is noticed.

In a fire at the Bank of England, the hearth on which the stove was placed was cast iron an
inch thick, with two-and-a-half inches of concrete underneath it; but the timber below that
was fired.

With regard to the subject of fire-proof dwelling-houses of average size, I consider that such
houses when built of brick or stone, with party-walls carried through the roof; the partitions
of brick, the stairs of slate or stone, the joists of wrought iron filled in with concrete,
and the whole well plastered, are practically fire-proof because, as stated at the opening
of this chapter, there is no probability that the furniture and flooring in any one room would
make fire enough to communicate to another. The safest manner of heating such houses is with
open fire-places, the hearths not being laid upon timber. Stone staircases, when much heated,
will fracture from cold water coming suddenly in contact with them; but in a dwelling-house
built as described above, there is very little chance of such a circumstance endangering human
life, even with wooden steps carried upon brick walls, and rendered incombustible by a ceiling
of an inch and a quarter of good hair mortar and well pugged, all the purposes of safety to
human life would be attained.

There is a particular description of floor, which, although not altogether fire-proof, is certainly
(at least so far as I can judge), almost practically so for dwelling-houses. It is composed
simply of plank two and a-half or three inches thick, so closely joined, and so nicely fitted
to the walls, as to be completely air-tight. Its thickness and its property of being air-tight,
will be easily observed to be its only causes of safety. Although the apartment be on fire,
yet the time required to burn through the floor above or below, will be so great, that the
property may be removed from the other floors, or, more probably, if the means of extinguishing
fire be at hand, it may be subdued before it can spread to any other apartment. The doors must
of course be made in proportion, and the partitions of brick or stone.

Before closing the subject of fire-proof structures, I will add a few words upon fire-proof
safes. These are all constructed with double casings of wrought iron, the interstices being
in some filled with non-combustible substances, such as pumice stone and Stourbridge clay,
and in others with metal tubes, that melt at a low temperature, and allow a liquid contained
in them to escape, and form steam round the box, with the intention of preventing the heat
from injuring the contents. Such safes I have never found destroyed; and in some cases, after
large fires, the whole of the contents have been found uninjured, while the papers in common
safes, merely made strong enough to prevent their being broken into, were generally found consumed.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: Vide Seventh Report of the British Association, 1837, vol. vi. page 409.]

[Footnote B: Vide Report on the Fall of the Cotton Mill, at Oldham, and part of the Prison
at Northleach, page 4. Folio. London: Clowes and Sons, 1845.]

[Footnote C: Vide Report of W. Fairbairn, Esq., on the Construction of Fire-proof Buildings.
With introductory Remarks by Samuel Holme, page 11, et seq. Tract, 8vo. Liverpool: T. Baines,
1844.]

[Footnote D: The Author has been informed by Mr. Farey, M. Inst. C.E., that a fire took place,
in 1827, in a mill belonging to Mr. Marshall, of Leeds, the whole of which, with the exception
of the roof, was fire-proof. The upper floor was filled with flax, which took fire; the roof
fell in, and the heat so affected the iron beams of the floor, as to cause them to give way.]

[Footnote E: In the year 1858, when reporting to the Insurance Offices upon the Warehouses
in the Metropolitan Docks, Mr. Braidwood made the following suggestions which are applicable
to all large buildings. That all the party-walls where the roofs do not rise above the wall,
should be 3 feet 6 inches above such roof. That all the party-walls in the valleys of the roofs
should be raised to the level of the highest ridge on either side, all openings in such walls
being closed by wrought-iron doors on each side of the walls, at least a quarter of an inch
thick in the panels, and such openings not to exceed 42 superficial feet in the clear. That
all windows which look upon other windows, or loop-hole doors in other warehouses or compartments,
within 100 feet, should be bricked up, or have wrought-iron shutters at least 3/16th of an
inch thick in the panels.

That all loop-hole doors similarly situated should be made entirely of wrought iron, frames
included, or bricked up. That all shafts for lifts or other purposes, should be of brick, with
wrought-iron doors where necessary to receive or deliver goods, and that all openings whatever
for machinery should be included in such shaft. That every hatchway or opening in the floors
for "shooting" goods from floor to floor should have a strong flap hinged on to the floor,
to be closed when not in use, especially at night.

That there should be direct access to every room, of every compartment, of every warehouse,
from a fire-proof staircase, by iron doors, and that all such staircases should enter from
the open air, as well as from under any warehouse on the quay; in the latter case the doors
must be of iron only.

All the windows in the entresol and ground floors to be bricked up, or have iron shutters,
and the doors and frames to be of iron.

Wherever the warehouses face each other within 100 feet, the front parapet walls to be carried
up to the level of the ridge of the roof.

When it is stated in this report that the windows or loop-hole doors should be bricked up,
it is not meant to exclude the use of thick glass, three or four pieces being built into each
door or window space, not exceeding 6 inches in diameter or square, in the clear, and set in
the mortar or cement at least 3/4 of an inch all round, the glass to be not less than 1-1/2
inches thick, flat on both sides, and so placed that no goods can be stored within 18 inches
of the inner surface.

Before entering upon the subject of Public Fire Brigades, I will call attention to the course
to be pursued by inmates of the house on fire, and their neighbours.

When all available means of fire prevention have been adopted, the next thing to be considered
is a supply of water. In the country, or where there are no water-pipes or engines, this ought
to be particularly attended to, and a hand-pump should be provided. Where no water is kept
solely for the purpose of extinguishing fire, such vessels as can be spared should be regularly
filled every night, and placed in such situations as may be most convenient in case of danger;
and no master of a family ought to retire to rest, without being satisfied that this has been
attended to. If it had no other advantage than merely that of directing the inmates of a house
to the possibility of such an occurrence as fire, it would be worth much more than the trouble
such an arrangement would cost; but, in addition to that, a supply of water would be at hand,
in most cases more than sufficient to extinguish the fire immediately on its being discovered,
and before it had become either alarming or dangerous. But when no such precaution has been
adopted, when even the bare possibility of fire has not been considered, when no attention
has even been paid to the subject, and no provision made for it; the inhabitants are generally
so alarmed and confused, that the danger is probably over, by their property being burned to
the ground, before they can sufficiently recollect themselves to lend any effective assistance.

In most cases of fire, the people in whose premises it occurs are thrown into what may be called
a state of temporary derangement, and seem to be actuated only by a desire of muscular movement,
no matter to what purpose their exertions are directed. Persons may often be seen toiling like
galley-slaves, at operations which a moment's reflection would show were utterly useless. I
have seen tables, chairs, and every article of furniture that would pass through a window,
three or four stories high, dashed into the street, even when the fire had hardly touched the
tenement. On one occasion I saw crockery-ware thrown from a window on the third floor.[F]

Most of these extravagances take place on the first alarm. When the engines have got fairly
into play, people begin to recollect themselves, and it is at this time that most of those
"who go to see a fire" arrive. By the exertions of the police there is then generally a considerable
degree of order restored, and the most interesting part of the scene is over.

What remains, however, may, from its novelty or grandeur, if the fire is extensive, be still
worth looking at for a little, but much of the excitement is banished with the confusion; and
if the fire and firemen seem to be well matched, the chief interest which is excited in the
spectators is to ascertain which of the parties is likely to be victorious. Few people, comparatively,
have thus an opportunity of witnessing the terror and distraction occasioned by the first alarm
of fire, and this may probably account for the apathy and indifference with which people who
have not seen this regard it.

When a fire actually takes place, every one should endeavour to be as cool and collected as
possible; screams, cries, and other exhibitions of terror, while utterly useless in themselves,
have generally the effect of alarming those whose services might otherwise be of the utmost
advantage, and of rendering them unfit for useful exertion. It is unhappily, too, at the commencement
of fires, that this tendency to confusion and terror is the strongest, when a bucket of water,
properly applied, is generally of more value than a hundred will be half an hour afterwards.
It is the feeling of total surprise, on the breaking out of a fire, which thus unhinges the
faculties of many individuals. They have never made the case their own, nay, one would almost
imagine they had scarcely thought such an occurrence possible, till, coming on them almost
like a thunderbolt, they are lost in perplexity and terror. The only preventive against this
is to think the matter over frequently and carefully before it occurs.

The moment it is ascertained that fire has actually taken place, notice should be sent to the
nearest station where there is a fire-engine. No matter whether the inmates are likely to be
able to extinguish the fire themselves--this should never be trusted to if more efficient help
can be had.

It is much better that an engine should be turned out twenty times when it is not wanted, than
be once too late. This may cause a trifling expense; but even that expense is not altogether
lost, as it teaches the firemen steadiness and coolness.

The person in the house best qualified for such duty should endeavour to ascertain, with as
much precision as possible, the extent and position of the fire, while the others collect as
much water as they can. If the fire be in an upper floor, the inmates should be got out immediately,
although the lower part of the house may generally be entered with safety for some time. If
in the lower part of the house, after the inmates have been removed, great care should be observed
in going into any of the upper floors, as the flames very often reach the stair before being
observed by those above. The upper floors are, besides, generally filled with smoke, and, in
that case, there is great danger of suffocation to those who may enter.

This, indeed, is the principal danger attending fires, and should be particularly guarded against,
as a person, when being suffocated, is unable to call for assistance. In a case of this kind
the fire took place in the third floor from the street, and all the inmates immediately left
the premises except one old woman. In about fifteen minutes after the arrival of the engines,
the firemen made their way upstairs, and the poor woman was found dead beside a basket partly
filled with clothes, which it was supposed she had been packing up for removal; had she made
any noise, or even broke a pane of glass, she would, in all probability, have been saved; as
the fire never touched the floor in which she was found, she must have died entirely from suffocation,
which a little fresh air would have prevented. Had the slightest suspicion existed that any
one was in the upper floors, they would have been entered by the windows or the roof; but as
the fire took place in daylight, and none of the neighbours spoke of any one being in the house,
it was thought unnecessary to damage the property, or risk the lives of the firemen, without
some adequate cause. This, however, shows how little dependence can be placed on information
received from the inmates of the premises on fire. Some of the people who lived on the same
floor with this poor woman, and who had seen her immediately before they left the house, never
mentioned her. I do not suppose that this negligence arose from apathy, or any feeling of that
sort; but the people were in such a state of utter confusion, that they were unable to think
of anything. But to return.

On the first discovery of a fire, it is of the utmost consequence to shut, and keep shut, all
doors, windows, or other openings. It may often be observed, after a house has been on fire,
that one floor is comparatively untouched, while those above and below are nearly burned out.
This arises from the door on that particular floor having been shut, and the draught directed
elsewhere. If the person who has examined the fire finds a risk of its gaining ground upon
him, he should, if within reach of fire-engines, keep everything close, and await their arrival,
instead of admitting air to the fire by ineffectual efforts to oppose it with inadequate means.
In the meantime, however, he should examine where a supply of water is most likely to be obtained,
and communicate that, and any other local information, to the firemen on their coming forward.
If there be no fire-engine within reach, the person who has examined the fire should keep the
place where it is situated as close as possible, till as many buckets of water as can be easily
collected are placed within his reach.

Taking care always that there is some one ready to assist him, he should then open the door,
and creep forward on his hands and knees till he gets as near the fire as possible; holding
his breath, and standing up for a moment to give the water a proper direction, he should throw
it with force, using a hand pump if available, and instantly get down to his former position,
where he will be again able to breathe. The people behind handing forward another bucket of
water, he repeats the operation till the fire is quenched, or until he feels exhausted; in
which case some one should take his place. If there be enough of water, however, two, three,
or any convenient number of people may be employed in throwing it; on the contrary, if the
supply of water be insufficient to employ even one person, the door should be kept shut while
the water is being brought, and the air excluded as much as possible, as the fire burns exactly
in proportion to the quantity of air which it receives.

One great evil, and which ought to be strictly guarded against by people not accustomed to
fire, is, that on the first alarm they exert themselves to the very utmost of their strength.
This, of course, can last but a short time; and when they feel tired, which in that case soon
happens, they very often give up altogether. Now this is the reverse of what it ought to be.
In extinguishing fires, like most other things, a cool judgment and steady perseverance are
far more effective than any desultory exertions which can be made.

The heat generally increases in a considerable degree when water is first thrown upon a fire,
from the conversion of a portion of it into steam. This is sometimes very annoying; so much
so, that the persons engaged in throwing the water, frequently feel themselves obliged to give
back a little. They should on no account, however, abate or discontinue their exertions in
throwing the water with as much force as possible in the direction of the fire; it will in
a short time cool the air and materials, and the steam will, in consequence, be generated more
slowly, while a steady perseverance on the part of those employed can alone effect the object
in view.

When water is scarce, mud, cow or horse dung, damp earth, &c., may be used as substitutes;
but if there seems no chance of succeeding by any of these, and the fire is likely to extend
to other buildings, the communication should be immediately cut off by pulling down the building
next to that on fire. Any operation of this sort, however, should be begun at a sufficient
distance from the fire to allow the communication to be completely cut off, before it gains
upon the workmen. If this operation be attempted so near the fire as to be interrupted by it,
it must be begun again at a greater distance; and, in that case, there is a greater destruction
of property than might have been necessary.

If a fire occur in a stable or cow-house, surrounded with other buildings of the same description,
or with the produce of a farm, there is much danger. The cattle and horses should be immediately
removed; and, in doing so, if any of them become restive, they should be blindfolded, taking
care that it is done thoroughly, as any attempt to blindfold them partially, only increases
the evil. They should be handled as much as possible in the ordinary manner, and with great
coolness; the violent gestures and excited appearance of the persons removing them tending
greatly to startle the animals, and render them unmanageable.

PUBLIC FIRE BRIGADES AND THE DUTIES OF FIREMEN.

The best public means of arresting fires is a very wide question, as the only limit to the
means is the expense. Different nations have different ways of doing the same thing. On the
Continent generally, the whole is managed by Government, and the firemen are placed under martial
law, the inhabitants being compelled to work the engines. In London, the principal means of
arresting fires is a voluntary association of the insurance companies, without legal authority
of any sort, the legal protection by parish engines being, with a few praiseworthy exceptions,
a dead letter.

In Liverpool, Manchester, and other towns, the extinction of fires by the pressure of water
only, without the use of fire-engines, is very much practised. The advantages of this system
are very great; but, to enable us to follow this system in London, the whole water supply would
require to be remodelled.

In America, the firemen are generally volunteers, enrolled by the local Governments. They are
exempt from other duties, or are entitled to privileges, which appear to satisfy them, as the
situation of fireman is eagerly sought in most of the American cities.

Which is the best of these different modes it is difficult to say; perhaps each is best suited
for the place where it exists.

It is now generally admitted, that the whole force brought together to extinguish a fire ought
to be under the direction and control of one individual. By this means, all quarrelling among
the firemen about the supply of water, the interest of particular insurance companies, and
other matters of detail, is avoided. By having the whole force under the command of one person,
he is enabled to form one general plan of operations, to which the whole body is subservient;
and although he may not, in the hurry of the moment, at all times adopt what will afterwards
appear to be the best plan, yet it is better to have some general arrangement, than to allow
the firemen of each engine to work according to their own fancy, and that, too, very often
in utter disregard as to whether their exertions may aid or retard those of their neighbours.
The individual appointed to such a situation ought not to be interfered with, or have his attention
distracted, except by the chief authority on the spot, or the owner of the premises on fire.
Much valuable information is frequently obtained from the latter, as to the division of the
premises, the party-walls, and other matters connected with its locality. But, generally speaking,
the less interference and advice the better, as it occupies time which may generally be better
employed.

I need scarcely add, that on no account whatever should directions be given to the firemen
by any other individual while the superintendent of brigade is present; and that there may
be no quarrelling about superiority, the men should be aware on whom the command is to devolve
in his absence.

It has often been to me a matter of surprise, that so small a portion of the public attention
should be directed to the matter of extinguishing fires. It is only when roused by some great
calamity that people bestir themselves; and then there is such a variety of plans proposed
to avert similar cases of distress, that to attempt to concoct a rational plan out of such
a crude, ill-digested, and contradictory mass of opinion, requires more labour and attention
than most people are inclined to give it, unless a regular business was made of it. In Paris
the corps of military firemen are so well trained, that although their apparatus is not so
good as it should be, the amount of the losses by fire is comparatively trifling. If the head-quarters
of such an establishment were to be in London, a store of apparatus, constructed on one uniform
plan, could be kept there, to be forwarded to any other part of the kingdom where it might
be required. This uniformity of the structure and design of the apparatus could extend to the
most minute particulars; a screw or a nut of any one engine would fit every other engine in
the kingdom. A depôt could also be kept at head-quarters, where recruits would be regularly
drilled and instructed in the business, and a regular system of communication kept up with
all the provincial corps. Any particular circumstances occurring at a fire would thus be immediately
reported, and the advantages of any knowledge or experience thus gained, would be disseminated
over the whole kingdom. As the matter at present stands one town may have an excellent fire-engine
establishment, and another within a few miles a very indifferent one, and when the one is called
to assist the other, they can neither act in concert, nor can the apparatus of the one in case
of accident be of the smallest service in replacing that of the other. The best might (if a
proper communication were kept up) be under frequent obligations to the worst, and here, as
in other matters, it is chiefly by communication that knowledge is increased. If the whole
experience of the country were brought together, and maturely considered and digested by persons
competent to judge, I have no doubt that a system might be introduced suitable to the nation
and to the age in which we live. Instead of hearing of the "dreadful losses by fire," and the
"great exertions" made to extinguish it, all the notice would be, such a place took fire, the
engines arrived, and it was extinguished.

It would be useless for me to enter into the details of a plan which I have little hope of
ever seeing realized. I may state, however, that a premium might be offered for the best engine
of a size previously agreed upon, which, when finished, should be kept as a model.

Specifications could then be made out, and estimates advertised for, for all the different
parts, such as wheels, axles, levers, cisterns, barrels, air-vessels, &c., separately. When
any particular part of an engine was damaged, it could be immediately replaced, and the engine
again rendered fit for service; and upon emergency any number of engines could be set up, merely
by putting the different parts together. The work would also be better done; at least it would
be much more easy to detect faults in the materials or workmanship than if the engines were
bought ready for use. These remarks apply to all the rest of the apparatus.

It could be provided that firemen might be enlisted for a term of years. When enlisted, they
would be sent to the depôt at head-quarters, drilled to the use of the engines, and carefully
instructed in separating and cleaning the different parts. Here also they could be practised
in gymnastic exercises, and generally instructed in everything tending to promote their usefulness
as firemen. They could then be sent off to some large towns, and, after having seen a little
active service, distributed over the country in such parties as might be deemed necessary for
the places they were intended to protect.

The practice of keeping fire-engines at noblemen's and gentlemen's residences, and at large
manufactories in the country, is by no means uncommon, and I have no doubt that many more would
supply themselves in this way if they knew where to apply for information in such matters;
but the great fault lies in the want of persons of skill and experience to work them when fire
occurs. In the way I have mentioned, proprietors and others could have one or more of their
workmen instructed in this necessary piece of duty; and I have no doubt that many gentlemen
would avail themselves of the means of instructing some of their servants.

It will be observed, I do not propose that the firemen who are enlisted, drilled, and instructed
in the business, should be sent to the different stations in sufficient numbers to work the
engines; this part of the work can be performed by any man accustomed to hard labour, as well
as by the most expert fireman, and the local authorities could easily provide men for this
purpose. In small towns, where fires are rare, the novelty would draw together plenty of hands;
and in large towns, where the inhabitants are not sufficiently disinterested to work for nothing,
there are always plenty who could be bound to assist in cases of fire at a certain rate per
hour, to be paid upon a certificate from the fireman who has charge of the engine at which
they worked. The trained firemen would thus be required only for the direction of the engine,
attaching the hose, &c.

I am quite aware that many people object to the training of firemen; but it would be just as
reasonable to give to a mob all the "matériel" of war, and next day expect it to act like a
regular army, as to expect engines to be managed with any general prospect of success, unless
the men are properly trained and prepared for the duty which is expected from them. Fire is
both a powerful and an insidious enemy, and those whose business it is to attack it will best
succeed when they have become skilful and experienced in the use of their arms.

It is quite obvious that a fire brigade, however complete in its apparatus and equipments,
must depend for its efficiency on the state of training and discipline of the firemen. Wherever
there is inexperience, want of co-operation, or confusion amongst them, the utmost danger is
to be apprehended in the event of fire. It is amidst the raging of this destructive element,
the terror and bustle of the inhabitants, that organization and discipline triumph, and it
is there, too, that coolness and promptitude, steadiness and activity, fearlessness and caution,
are peculiarly required; but, unfortunately, it is then also that they are most rarely exhibited.

There should not be less than five or six men attached to each engine, who should be properly
instructed and drilled, to take charge of it, and to guide the people who work at the levers.

The person having the principal charge of the engines should frequently turn over in his mind
what might be the best plan, in such and such circumstances, supposing a fire to take place.
By frequently ruminating on the subject, he will find himself, when suddenly turned out of
bed at night, much more fit for his task than if he had never considered the matter at all.
Indeed he will frequently be surprised, when examining the premises afterwards (which he ought
always to do, and mark any mistakes he may have committed), that he should have adopted the
very best mode of extinguishing the fire, amid the noise, confusion, and the innumerable advices
showered down on him, by all those who consider themselves qualified or entitled to give advice
in such matters; a number, by the way, which sometimes includes no inconsiderable portion of
the spectators. He should also make himself well acquainted with the different parts of the
town in which he may be appointed to act, and notice the declivities of the different streets,
&c. He will find this knowledge of great advantage.

Any buildings, supposed to be particularly dangerous, should be carefully examined, and all
the different places where supplies of water can be obtained for them noticed.

A knowledge of the locality thus obtained will be found of great advantage in case of a fire
breaking out. Indeed all firemen, especially those having the charge of engines, should be
instructed carefully to examine and make themselves acquainted with the localities of their
neighbourhood or district. Such knowledge will often prove valuable in emergencies; the proprietors
or tenants of the property on fire being sometimes in such a state of alarm, that no distinct
intelligence can be got from them.

When an engine is brought to a fire, it ought to be placed as nearly as possible in a straight
line between the supply of water and the premises on fire; taking care, however, to keep at
such a distance from the latter that the men who work the pumps may be in no danger from being
scorched by the heat, or of being annoyed by the falling of water or burning materials. Running
the engine close upon the fire serves no good purpose, except to shorten the quantity of hose
that would otherwise be required. The addition of twenty or thirty feet of hose makes very
little difference in the working of the engine, and, when compared with the disadvantage of
the men becoming unsteady from the idea of personal danger, is not even to be named. Indeed,
if the engine be brought too near the fire, there is danger of the men quitting the levers
altogether. I may also add that, both for the safety of the hose and the convenience of the
inhabitants, the engine should be kept out of the way of people removing furniture.

When the hose is attached and the engine filled with water, the man who holds the branch-pipe,
accompanied by another, should get so near the fire, inside the house, that the water from
the branch may strike the burning materials. If he cannot accomplish this standing, he must
get down on his hands and knees and creep forward, those behind handing up the hose. A stratum
of fresh air is almost always to be depended on from six to twelve inches from the floor, so
that if the air be not respirable to a person standing upright, he should instantly get down.
I have often observed this fact, which indeed is well known; but I once saw an example of it
which appeared to me to be so striking, that I shall here relate it. A fire had broken out
in the third floor of a house, and when I reached the top of the stair, the smoke was rolling
in thick heavy masses, which prevented me from seeing six inches before me. I immediately got
down on the floor; above which, for a space of about eight inches the air seemed to be remarkably
clear and bright. I could distinctly see the feet of the tables and other furniture in the
apartment; the flames in this space burning as vivid and distinct as the flame of a candle,
while all above the smoke was so thick that the eye could not penetrate it. The fire had already
burst through three out of five windows in the apartment, yet, when lying flat on the floor,
no inconvenience was felt except from the heat.

When the fire has broken through a floor, the supply of air along that floor is not to be depended
on--the fire drawing the principal supply of air from the apartments below.

When the two first firemen have gained a favourable position, they should keep it as long as
they are able; and when they feel exhausted, the men behind them should take their place.

The great point to which everything ought to be made subservient is, that the water on its
discharge from the branch-pipe should actually strike the burning materials. This cannot be
too often or too anxiously inculcated on every one connected with a fire-engine establishment.
Every other method not having this for its grand object, will, in nine cases out of ten, utterly
fail; and upon the degree of attention paid to this point, depends almost entirely the question
as to the amount of damage the fire will occasion.

When approaching a fire, it should always be done by the door, if possible. When this is attended
to, it is much easier to shift the hose from one apartment to another; and the current of fresh
air, entering by the door and proceeding along the passages, makes respiration easier and safer
than elsewhere.

When entrance by the door is impracticable, and access is to be gained by a window, the flames
frequently burst through in such a manner as to render advance in the first instance impossible.
In that case, the branch should be pointed against the window, nearly in a perpendicular direction;
the water striking the lintel, and falling all round inside the window, will soon extinguish
the fire at that point sufficiently to render an entrance practicable.

The old plan of standing with the branch pipe in the street, and throwing the water into the
windows is a very random way of going to work; and for my own part, although I have seen it
repeatedly tried, I never saw it attended with success. Indeed it is hardly to be expected
that water, thrown from the street into a room three or four storeys high, can have any impression
on closets, presses, or passages, divided probably with brick partitions in the centre of the
house. The circumstance of having engines at work on both sides of the house does not alter
the case. The fire very often burns up through the centre, and frequently, when the space between
the windows is large, along the front or back wall, till it arrives at the roof, which the
water cannot touch on account of the slates or tiles. On the other hand, when the firemen enter
the house, the fire is almost wholly under their command. And when it happens that there is
any corner which the water cannot directly strike, the fire in it may often be extinguished
by throwing the water against an opposite wall or partition, and trusting to the recoil to
throw it to the point required.

When the water is thrown from the street, it is impossible to say whether it touches the parts
on fire or not. No one can tell anything about it, except when the flame appears at the windows.

On going with the branch inside the house, besides the advantage of the water rushing directly
from the hose upon the fire, there is a great saving in the article of water itself. The whole
that is thrown by the engine is applied to the right purpose. No part of it is lost; that which
does not strike the burning materials falls within the house; and, by soaking those parts on
which it falls, prevents their burning so rapidly when the flames approach them.

If, on entering an apartment, it be found that the flames cover a considerable space, it is
of advantage, in some instances, to place the point of the thumb in contact with the water
at the nozzle of the branch. By this means the water may be spread to cover any space under
twenty or thirty feet, according to the pressure applied.

While speaking of the mode of entering houses on fire, I may mention that I have tried several
inventions for the purpose of elevating the branch pipe and hose to the level of a second or
third story window. But these, although exceedingly ingenious, appear to me to rest on a principle
entirely wrong; I mean that of throwing water on the fire from the outside of the building.

Independent altogether of a mistaken principle of usefulness, one insuperable objection to
all these machines, is the difficulty of conveying them with the necessary celerity, and the
impossibility of packing them on the engine in such a manner that it may be worked without
their being taken off, as it seems to me that every description of apparatus which cannot be
conveyed along with the engine, is likely to be left behind when most wanted. It is notorious
that parish fire-ladders are, for this reason, seldom or never made use of.

Many people object to going inside a building on fire on account of the danger. It ought never
to be forgotten, however, that the danger increases with the delay; and that although at first
there may be no danger, if the opportunity is not promptly seized, it may become very considerable.

Several of the firemen have at different times fainted, or become stupefied, from the want
of fresh air; but as no one is ever allowed to enter singly, they have been, in all cases,
immediately observed by their comrades, and relieved.

Another objection has been raised in the alleged difficulty of persuading men to risk their
lives in this manner for the small consideration which is allowed them. The truth is, that
any persuasions I have had occasion to use, have been generally on the other side.

To hold the branch is considered the post of honour; and when two engines are working together,
I have sometimes difficulty in preventing the men from pressing forward farther than is absolutely
necessary. This forwardness is not the result of pecuniary reward for the increase of risk,
but a spirit of emulation is at work, and the man entrusted with this duty, if found drawing
back, would be completely disgraced.

A retreat should in all cases be kept open, to provide against any accident that may occur;
and as this may be done in almost all cases by means so easy and simple, there can be no excuse
for its omission. At the same time no one but an expert fireman should be permitted to enter
where there is personal danger.

The danger to which firemen are most exposed is catching cold, from their being so frequently
drenched with water, and from their exposure to the sudden alternations of heat and cold. A
man is turned out of bed at midnight, and in a few minutes after quitting it he is exposed
to the sharp air, perhaps, of a frosty winter night; running to the fire as fast as he can,
he is, from the exercise, joined to the oppressive heat inside the place on fire, in a few
minutes in a state of the most profuse perspiration; and, while in this state, he is almost
certain to be soaked with cold water. The smoke is sometimes so thick, that he comes under
the range of the branch of the engine without being aware of it till the water strikes him.
If he escape this chance, the water rushing on some other object, recoils on him, and produces
the same effect; and if the fire be in the roof of the apartment, he must lie down on his back
on the floor, and in this manner gets completely steeped.

A bath of this sort is neither very safe nor pleasant; and the only preventive of injury to
the health is to keep the men in constant motion. When they are allowed to stand still or sit
down, the danger is considerable. When the fire is extinguished, or in two or three hours after
its commencement, I make it a rule to give every man a dram of spirits. If it be necessary
to leave an engine on the spot, those of the men who are to remain are sent home to change
their clothes.

THE LONDON FIRE BRIGADE.

The London Fire Brigade now (January, 1861) consists of one superintendent, four foremen, each
being appointed to a district consisting of a fourth part of London, which he never leaves
except on some very pressing emergency, and who, in the absence of the superintendent, has
the sole command of all engines, or firemen, within, or who may come within, his district;
twelve engineers, ten sub-engineers, forty-seven senior firemen, and forty-three junior firemen:
in all, one hundred and seventeen individuals. In addition, there are fifteen drivers and thirty-seven
horses, all living at the several stations, and ready when required. There is also a supplementary
force of four extra firemen, four drivers, and eight horses living at the stations, pursuing
their usual avocations, and only paid by the Committee when required. The mechanical appliances
consist of twenty-seven large engines drawn by horses, eight small engines drawn by hand, two
floating-engines worked by steam, one of forty-horse power, and the other of eighty-horse power,
one land steam fire-engine, and twenty-eight hand-pumps, one of the latter being carried on
each engine. When an engine is sent to a fire, only four firemen and one driver accompany it.
The levers are worked by the by-standers, who are paid one shilling for the first hour, and
sixpence for each succeeding hour, besides refreshments. Upwards of six hundred assistants
have been thus employed at one time. The principal protection of London against fire is entirely
voluntary on the part of the insurance companies, to whom the above establishment belongs;
there being no law in any shape whatever to control or sustain the brigade; and with the exception
of some fifteen or twenty, the parish-engines are comparatively useless at a serious fire.
It must not be omitted, that the greatest possible assistance is given to the firemen by the
police, of whom there are about 7000, in keeping back the crowd, &c. The fire-offices look
upon the whole as a matter of private business, so that the brigade is proportioned quite as
must to the amount which the offices think it prudent to spend as to the size of the place.
Paris, which is not half the size of London, and the buildings of which are much more substantial,
has upwards of 800 firemen. It appears to me that any success which the brigade may have attained
depends, in a great measure, on the liberal pay given, by which the best men for the purpose
can be obtained, the favourable view in which the brigade is regarded by the public, and the
willing and able assistance given by a numerous and perhaps the best police in existence.

The firemen in London being constantly employed on weekly wages, give their whole time to their
employers, and are much more under command than where men are only occasionally employed. The
wages and treatment being liberal, although the discipline is severe, there are generally a
considerable number of candidates for each vacancy. Thus good men are obtained, seamen being
preferred, as they are taught to obey orders, and the night and day watches and the uncertainty
of the occupation are more similar to their former habits, than to those of other men of the
same rank in life. The large number of fires is, however, the principal cause of any advantage
the London firemen may possess over those of smaller places; and it is hardly fair to compare
firemen who have only an opportunity of attending one or two fires in a week, to those who
attend nearly three fires a day.

The firemen are drilled first daily, and then two or three times a week, for some months; and
this, with an average of three calls a day, soon makes them acquainted with the routine of
their business; but it takes years of constant work to make a thoroughly good fireman.

The management of the London Fire Brigade is confided to a Committee, consisting of one of
the directors or secretaries from each of the fire-offices in London.

The superintendent has the command of the whole force.

The town is divided into four districts, in each of which there are stationed a sufficient
number of engines, under the charge of a foreman, with engines and firemen under him.

The districts are as follows:--

NORTH SIDE OF RIVER.

     District A. From the eastward to Paul's Chain, St. Paul's
     Churchyard, Aldersgate-street, and Goswell-street-road.

     B. From St. Paul's, &c., to Tottenham-court-road,
     Crown-street, and St. Martin's-lane.

     C. From Tottenham-court-road, &c., westward.

     D. South side of River.

The men are clothed uniformly; are distinguished by numbers corresponding with their names
in the books; and regularly exercised in the use of their engines, and in such other duties
as the Committee or Superintendent may direct.

The following general regulations do not contain rules of conduct applicable to every variety
of circumstance that may occur to individuals in the performance of their duty, as something
must always be left for the exercise of intelligence and discretion; and, according to the
degree in which these qualities in members of the Establishment are combined with zeal and
activity, they become entitled to future promotion and reward.

It is strongly impressed upon the minds of all persons serving in the Establishment, that one
of the greatest advantages which the present system possesses above that which it superseded,
is derived from the embodying the whole force under one responsible officer. It is, therefore,
incumbent upon the men to render prompt and cheerful obedience to the commands of their superiors;
to execute their duties as steadily and quietly as possible; to be careful not to annoy the
inhabitants of houses they may be called upon to enter, and to treat all persons with civility;
to take care to preserve presence of mind and good temper, and not to allow themselves to be
distracted from their duty by the advice or directions of any persons but their own officers,
and to observe the strictest sobriety and general regularity of behaviour.

As every man wears the uniform of the Establishment, which is marked with a number corresponding
with his name in the books, he must constantly bear in mind that misconduct will not only reflect
discredit upon the Establishment, but be easily brought home to himself and subject him to
proportional punishment.

The men are particularly cautioned not to take spirituous liquors from any individual without
special permission of the superintendent, or, in his absence, of the foreman of the district;
and as intoxication upon the alarming occasion of fires is not only disreputable to the Establishment,
but in the highest degree dangerous, by rendering the men unfit for duty, every appearance
of it is most rigidly marked, and the foremen, engineers, and sub-engineers report immediately,
for the purpose of being laid before the Committee, every instance of insubordination or intoxication,
and the men are accordingly apprised that the regulations regarding the above-mentioned faults
will be most strictly enforced.

All the men in the Establishment are liable to be punished by fine, suspension, reduction,
or dismissal, for disobeying or neglecting any of these regulations, or for any other misconduct;
and the disposal of the fines so collected is at the discretion of the Committee.

The following are the conditions upon which each man is admitted into the Establishment:--

     He devotes his whole time to the service.

     He serves and resides wherever he is appointed.

     He must promptly obey all orders which he may receive from
     those placed in authority over him.

     The age of admission does not exceed twenty-five, nor is
     under eighteen.

     He conforms himself to all regulations which may be made
     from time to time.

     He does not upon any occasion, or under any pretence
     whatever, take money from any person, without the express
     permission of the Committee.

     He appears at all times in the dress of the Establishment.

     If lodgings be found for him, a deduction of one shilling
     per week is made from his pay, if unmarried; if married, and
     if lodgings be found for him, an agreement in each
     particular case will be made.

     He receives his pay weekly on such day as shall be
     appointed.

     The pay of a Junior Fireman is 3s. per day, or 21s. a
     week.

     The pay of a Senior Fireman, 3s. 6d. a day, or 24s.
     6d. a week.

     The pay of a Sub-Engineer is 26s. a week.

     The pay of an Engineer, 4s. a day, or 28s. a week.

     The Foremen are paid by annual salaries.

     Each man contributes towards a Superannuation Fund,
     according to a scale determined by the Committee.

     Each man receives  annually--

      One short frock coat, marked with a number answering to his name
        in the books.

      A black neckcloth.

      Two pairs of cloth trousers.

      One cloth cap.

      Four pairs of boots in three years, and

     Once in three years he receives--

      One great coat.

     He does not quit the service without giving fourteen days'
     previous notice; if he quits without such notice, or is
     dismissed, the whole of his pay then due is forfeited.

     Every man who is dismissed from the Establishment, or who
     resigns his situation, delivers up, before he quits the
     service, every article of dress and appointment which may
     have been supplied to him; if any of such articles have
     been, in the opinion of the superintendent, improperly used
     or damaged, the man makes good the damage or supplies a new
     article.

     Every man in the service is liable to immediate dismissal
     for unfitness, negligence, or misconduct. The Committee, if
     they see fit, may dismiss a man without assigning any
     reason.

     No fireman must allow to be used by any other person, nor
     use himself, except while he belongs to the Establishment,
     the button and badge given with his clothes.

     In the event of sickness rendering any man incapable of
     performing his duties, the Committee reserves to itself the
     power of making a deduction from his weekly pay.

     Each man, on his admission, gives to the Committee, if
     required, a letter of guarantee from some respectable
     person, to an amount not exceeding 50l., as security.

OUTLINE OF GENERAL DUTY.

One-third of the men are constantly on duty at the different engine-houses, night and day;
and the whole are liable to be called up for attendance at fires, or for any other duty. In
general, it is arranged as follows, viz.:--

If a fire happen in District A, the whole of the men and engines of that district immediately
repair to the spot; two-thirds of the men, and one of the engines, from each of the districts
B and D, also go to the fire; and one-third of the men from the district C.

If the fire happen in B, the whole of the men and engines in that district immediately repair
to the fire; one engine from A, another from C, two-thirds of the men from A and C, and one-third
of the men from D.

If the fire happen in C, the whole of the men and engines in that district, one engine and
two-thirds of the men from the district B, and one-third of the men from A and D, go to the fire.

In case of emergency, the superintendent calls in such additional force as he may require.

The engines are not taken to alarms of chimneys on fire, unless the circumstances of the case
should, in the opinion of the superintendent, foreman, or engineer, require a deviation from
this regulation.

When any of the men from another district come to assist at a fire, if the engine to which
they are attached is not in attendance, they instantly go to the foreman's engine of the district
to which they come.

The engines are conveyed to fires at not less than seven miles per hour, and the men who do
not accompany the engines go at not less than four miles per hour.

Any engineer or fireman who, when at a fire, is absent from an engine or a branch pipe, without
orders from the superintendent or foreman, is liable to a fine.

If any of the men are sick, or absent from any other cause, their duties are performed by other
men attached to their engine-station.

With a view to the men being always at hand, they are lodged as near as possible to their respective
engine-houses.

The roll is called at each station every morning and evening.

No man leaves his own residence or the engine-station to which he belongs from 10 P.M. to 6
A.M. except to go to a fire, or by an order from a superior, or with written leave from the
superintendent, and the senior man on duty is answerable if he does not report any departure
from this rule.

Men on duty not at the engine-stations are allowed one hour for breakfast and one for dinner,
as follows:--One-half of the men on duty go to breakfast from 8 to 9, and the other half from
9 to 10; also one-half go to dinner from 1 to 2, and the other half from 2 to 3. The second
half in no case leave until the whole of the first half have returned, neither do the men on
duty leave morning or evening until the relief has arrived. The engineer or senior man on duty
is answerable for this regulation being carried into effect. And any man being absent from
the premises he is watching or working in, except at the regular hours, is punished.

The men for duty individually assemble at the principal engine-house in the district before,
or precisely at, the hour fixed for that purpose. Their names are called, and an inspection
made by the foreman of the district, to ascertain that they are sober and correctly dressed
and appointed. The foreman then reads and explains the orders of the day. At the hour for relieving
the men, no one leaves his engine-house until the relief has actually arrived there; when the
men are relieved, their names are called over, and they are inspected by the engineer, that
he may ascertain whether they are sober, and as correctly dressed and appointed as when they
went on duty. The engineer enters these inspections in a book.

The engineers deliver a written report, according to a printed form, twice each day, to the
foreman of the district, who in his turn reports twice a day to the superintendent.

The whole of the men are, at all times, ready to appear at any place required, for exercise
or any other purpose, and are ready (whether on duty or not) to execute whatever orders they
may receive, in relation to the Establishment, from the engineers, foremen, or superintendent.

DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT.

The Superintendent resides at the principal engine-station in Watling-street.

The moment an alarm of fire is given, wherever it may be, he repairs to the spot with all possible
expedition, and takes the command of the whole force.

He endeavours to ascertain the cause of the fire, and reports the same to the committee.

He is responsible for the general conduct of the foremen, engineers, and firemen under his charge.

He makes himself well acquainted with the character and conduct of every man under his orders.

He must be firm and just, and, at the same time, kind and conciliating in his behaviour on
all occasions.

He takes care that the printed regulations and all others given out from time to time, are
promptly and strictly obeyed; and he gives clear and precise instructions to the men under
him, and reports every instance of neglect of a serious nature to the Committee.

He must feel the importance of visiting some of the engine-houses, at uncertain hours, every
day and night.

He suspends and reports to the Committee persons who are guilty of serious misconduct; and
at once punishes by fines, according to a scale sanctioned by the Committee, irregularities
of a lighter character, reporting such fines to them.

He must be at all times prepared to furnish the Committee with particulars respecting the state
of the Establishment.

When a fire is extinguished, the superintendent retains only such a number of men and engines
as he may think necessary for watching the premises.

He communicates with the surveyors of stock of the offices interested in a fire, and arranges
with them, in the event of its being necessary, to work out salvage from the ruins.

When a fire happens, he causes a report to be made immediately, if in office hours (or, if
after office hours, before ten o'clock next morning), to those offices interested in the fire,
and also to their surveyors of buildings and stock, as soon as possible after the fire is extinguished,
and causes a daily report to be transmitted to each office of all fires which have happened,
according to a printed form given to him for that purpose, as follows:--

     Date and hour.

     Situation of premises.

     Name and occupation of tenant.

     Name and residence of landlord.

     Supposed cause of fire.

     In what offices insured.

     No. of Policy.

     If there is gas on the premises.

     By whom called.

     By whom extinguished.

     Supply of water, with name of company.

     No. of engines attending and of what district, and the order
     in which they arrive.

     No. of men ditto ditto.

     Engines not of the Establishment, and the order in which
     they arrive.

     Description of damage.

DUTIES OF FOREMAN.

The Foreman resides at the place appointed for him.

He receives his orders and instructions from, and makes his reports to, the superintendent.

He must set an example to the men of alacrity and skill in the discharge of his duty, and of
regularity in his general behaviour.

In the absence of the superintendent, the foreman of the district will take the command of
the whole force, both those of his own district and of all other engines and men which may
come to his assistance in cases of fire.

He does not attend fires that happen out of his own district unless he receives orders from
the superintendent to that effect.

He endeavours to ascertain the cause of the fire, and reports the same to the superintendent.

On the alarm of fire being given in his own district, he instantly repairs to the spot, and
uses his utmost endeavours to get the engines into play and supply them with water. The first
engine and firemen which arrive at a fire are not interfered with, nor their supplies of water
diverted from them, by those coming afterwards, unless by a distinct order from the superintendent,
or, in his absence, from the foreman of the district. The same rule applies to each succeeding
engine which takes up a position.

He is careful to place the engines in such a manner that the men who work at the levers may
be in no danger from the falling of the premises on fire; and also that the engines may not
be in the way of people carrying out furniture, &c.; but, above all things, he endeavours to
place the engineers with their branch pipes in such positions that the water from the branches
may directly strike the burning materials. This he cannot too often inculcate on the men placed
under him, as upon this point, on being properly attended to, depends entirely the effect of
the engines. To attain this most desirable end, it is frequently necessary to enter the premises
on fire, and the foreman takes care so to place his men that they can easily escape. If he
has reason to suspect that the building is not sufficiently secure, he stations one or two
competent men to observe the state of the building, and to give the alarm when they see any danger.

He never allows any man unaccompanied by another to enter a building on fire.

He does not throw more water on the premises than is absolutely necessary to extinguish the
fire, as all the water thrown after the fire is extinguished, only tends to increase the damage.

When the inmates of the premises on fire are removed, the foreman endeavours to exclude air
from the parts on fire, by shutting all doors and windows as far as may be practicable.

He is responsible for the conduct of the men placed under him, and for the state of the engines,
which must at all times be kept in first-rate order; he also makes himself well acquainted
with the talent and general character of each individual under him.

He visits every engine-house in his district at least once in the twenty-four hours; he sees
that the men are on duty, the engines ready for service, and everything in proper order, and
enters his visit in a book kept for that purpose, with the date and hour of his visit. If he
finds anything wrong, he enters it in the book, and immediately sends off a report to the superintendent
by one of the men not on duty.

He sends a written report twice in every twenty-four hours to the superintendent, which contains
a particular statement of all fires and everything else connected with the Establishment which
has occurred in his district within the preceding twelve hours.

He returns in his report of a fire the names of such men, if any, as were not ready to start
with the engine to which they are attached.

It is expected that he is able and ready to give instructions to the engineers and men on all
points relating to their duty.

He receives and enters, in a book kept for that purpose, all complaints which may be made against
any person under his command, causing the complaining party to sign the same and insert his
address, and he reports the whole matter without delay to the superintendent.

He is responsible for the engines in his district being each provided with the articles contained
in the following list:--

     2 lengths of scaling ladder.

     1 canvas sheet, with 10 or 12 handles of rope round the edge
     of it, used as a portable fire-escape.

     2 pieces of 2-1/2-inch rope, one 10 fathoms and one 14
     fathoms long.

     7 lengths of hose, each 40 feet long.

     2 branch pipes, one 4 and the other 1 foot long.

     3 nozzles, or jet pipes.

     4 lengths of suction-pipe, each about 6 feet long.

     1 flat rose.

     1 standcock.

     1 goose-neck.

     2 balls of strips of sheep-skin.

     2 balls of small cord.

     4 hose wrenches.

     1 fire hook.

     1 mattock.

     1 shovel.

     1 saw.

     1 screw-wrench.

     1 portable cistern.

     1 hatchet or pole-axe.

     1 iron crow-bar.

DUTIES OF THE ENGINEER.

He resides in the engine-house to which he is appointed.

He obeys all orders given to him by the superintendent or the foreman of the district.

He is held responsible for the conduct of the men under him, and for the state of his engine,
and takes care that it is provided with the articles contained in the foregoing list.

He reports to his foreman, every morning and evening, in writing, whether any of his men have
been absent with or without leave.

He enters in his book the time when the men go to the foreman's station before taking duty,
and also when they return.

On receiving notice of a fire happening within the prescribed limits, he instantly takes his
engine and men to the spot, and places himself and them at the disposal of the superintendent,
foreman, or senior engineer of the district in which the fire happens.

He must make himself acquainted with the character and abilities of each man under him.

He is subject to fines at the discretion of the Committee, for neglect of duty or misbehaviour.

DUTIES OF SUB-ENGINEERS.

The sub-engineers being attached to foremen's and double stations only, in the absence of the
foremen or engineer, or when in charge of an engine, the duties of the sub-engineer are the
same as those described for an engineer; when the foreman or engineer is absent, the sub-engineer
must set an example to the firemen at the station of constant attention, implicit obedience
and activity, and in so far as he exhibits these and similar qualifications he expects to rise
in the service.

DUTIES OF THE FIREMAN.

Every fireman in the establishment may expect to rise to the superior stations, by activity,
intelligence, sobriety, and general good conduct.

He must make it his study to recommend himself to notice by a diligent discharge of his duties,
and strict obedience to the commands of his superiors, recollecting that he who has been accustomed
to obey will be considered best qualified to command.

He resides near the engine-house to which he is attached, in a situation to be approved of,
and devotes the whole of his time and abilities to the service.

On the alarm of fire, he proceeds with all possible speed to the engine-house to which he is
attached.

He must at all times appear neat in his person, and correctly dressed in the establishment
uniform, and be respectful in his demeanour towards his superiors.

He must readily and punctually obey the orders of the engineers, foremen, and superintendent.

He must not quit his engine-house while on duty, except to go to a fire, unless by special
order from a superior.

He is subject to fines for neglect of duty or misbehaviour, according to the regulations.

BOOKS KEPT AT THE STATIONS.

There is a book kept in each engine-house, in which are entered all fires or alarms of fires;
the time the men come on duty; the visits made by the foremen, superintendent, or any of the
Committee, and all complaints against the men.

This book is in charge of the superior on duty at the time; and the foreman and engineers are
answerable for its being correctly kept.

Every entry made in this book is signed by the person making it.

The superintendent enters, in a book kept for that purpose, the particulars of every fire,
the attendance of engines, supply of water, &c., and lays it before the Committee weekly, or
oftener, if required.

Any false entry, for the purpose of concealing absence, is punished--for the first offence,
by the reduction of one step, and for the second by dismissal.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote F: At a fire which took place in one of the best streets in Edinburgh, and which
began in the roof, the persons who rushed into the house on the first alarm being given, threw
the greater part of the contents of the drawing-room and library, with several basketsful of
china and glass, out of the windows; the fire injured nothing below the uppermost story.]

THE EDINBURGH FIRE BRIGADE.

In forming the brigade in Edinburgh, where the firemen are only occasionally employed, the
description of men, from which I made a selection, were slaters, house-carpenters, masons,
plumbers, and smiths.

Slaters make good firemen, not so much from their superiority in climbing, going along roofs,
&c., although these are great advantages, but from their being in general possessed of a handiness
and readiness which I have not been able to discover in the same degree amongst other classes
of workmen. It is, perhaps, not necessary that I should account for this, but it appears to
me to arise from their being more dependent on their wits, and more frequently put to their
shifts in the execution of their ordinary avocations. House-carpenters and masons being well
acquainted with the construction of buildings, and understanding readily from whence danger
is to be apprehended, can judge with tolerable accuracy, from the appearance of a house, where
the stair is situated, and how the house is divided inside. Plumbers are also well accustomed
to climbing and going along the roofs of houses; they are useful in working fire-cocks, covering
the gratings of drains with lead, and generally in the management of water. Smiths and plumbers
can also better endure heat and smoke than most other workmen.

Men selected from these five trades are also more robust in body, and better able to endure
the extremes of heat, cold, wet, and fatigue, to which firemen are so frequently exposed, than
men engaged in more sedentary employments.

I have generally made it a point to select for firemen, young men from seventeen or eighteen
to twenty-five years of age. At that age they enter more readily into the spirit of the business,
and are much more easily trained, than when farther advanced in life. Men are frequently found
who, although they excel in the mechanical parts of their own professions, are yet so devoid
of judgment and resources, that when anything occurs which they have not been taught, or have
not been able to foresee, they are completely at a loss. Now it happens not unfrequently that
the man who arrives first at a fire, notwithstanding any training or instructions he may have
received, is still, from the circumstances of the case, left almost entirely to the direction
of his own judgment. It is, therefore, of immense importance to procure men on whose coolness
and judgment you can depend. If they are expert tradesmen, so much the better, as there is
generally a degree of respect shown to first-rate tradesmen by their fellows, which inferior
hands can seldom obtain; and this respect tends greatly to keep up the character of the corps
to which they belong, which ought never to be lost sight of.

Amidst the noise and confusion which more or less attend all fires, I have found considerable
difficulty in being able to convey the necessary orders to the firemen in such a manner as
not to be liable to misapprehension. I tried a speaking-trumpet; but, finding it of no advantage,
it was speedily abandoned. It appeared to me indeed, that while it increased the sound of the
voice, by the deep tone which it gave, it brought it into greater accordance with the surrounding
noise. I tried a boatswain's call, which I have found to answer much better. Its shrill piercing
note is so unlike any other sound usually heard at a fire, that it immediately attracts the
attention of the firemen. By varying the calls, I have now established a mode of communication
not easily misunderstood, and sufficiently precise for the circumstances to which it is adapted,
and which I now find to be a very great convenience.

The calls are as follows:--

     1 for red, 2 for blue, 3 for yellow, 4 for grey.[G]

     5 to work the engine.

     6 to stop working.

     7 to attach one length of hose more than the engine has at
     the time the call is given.

     8 to coil up the hose attached to the engine.

     9 to coil up the hose attached to the fire-cock.

     10 to turn to the left.

     11 to turn to the right.

     12 the call to work the engine answers also to move forward
     when the engine is prepared for travelling.

     13 the call to stop working answers to stop the engine when
     moving forward.

In all there are thirty-six calls when compounded with the first four.

In speaking of the drilling of firemen, I shall give a short account of the plan followed here,
which has been tolerably successful.

The present number of firemen in Edinburgh is fifty, divided into four companies; three of
which consist of twelve and one of fourteen men. The bounds of the city are divided into four
districts; in each of which there is an engine-house, containing one or more engines, one of
the companies being attached to each engine-house. In each company there is one captain, one
sergeant, four pioneers, and six or eight firemen.

The whole are dressed in blue jackets, canvas trousers, and hardened leather helmets, having
hollow leather crests over the crown to ward off falling materials. The form of this helmet
was taken from the war-helmet of the New Zealanders, with the addition of the hind flap of
leather to prevent burning matter, melted lead, water, or rubbish getting into the neck of
the wearer. The captains' helmets have three small ornaments, those of the sergeants one--those
of the pioneers and firemen being plain.

The jackets of the captains have two small cloth wings on the shoulder, similar to those worn
by light infantry. Those of the sergeants have three stripes on the left arm, and, on the left
arms of the pioneers and firemen, are their respective numbers in the company. Each company
has a particular colour--red, blue, yellow, and grey. Each engine is painted of one or other
of these colours, and the accoutrements of the men belonging to it correspond. There is thus
no difficulty in distinguishing the engines or men from each other by their colours and numbers.
Each man also wears a broad leather waist-belt, with a brass buckle in front. To the waist-belts
of the captains, sergeants, and pioneers is attached eighty feet of cord; the captains having
also a small mason's hammer, with a crow-head at the end of the handle: the sergeants have
a clawed hammer, such as is used by house-carpenters, with an iron handle, and two openings
at the end for unscrewing nuts from bolts; the pioneers a small hatchet, with a crow-head at
the end of the handle; and the firemen each carry a canvas water-bucket folded up.

The captains assemble every Tuesday night, to give in a report of such fires as may have occurred
in their respective districts, with a list of the men who have turned out, and a corresponding
list from the sergeant of police of the respective districts. They then receive any orders
which may be necessary; and any vacancies which have occurred in the establishment are filled
up at these meetings.

For some months after this fire establishment was organized, the men were regularly drilled
once a week, at four o'clock in the morning; but now only once a month at the same hour.

Among many other good reasons for preferring this early hour, I may mention, that it does not
interfere with the daily occupation of the firemen. The chance of collecting a crowd is also
avoided, as there are then comparatively few people on the streets; this is a matter of some
importance, as a crowd of people not only impedes the movements of the firemen, but, from small
quantities of water spilt on the by-standers, quarrels are generated, and a prejudice excited
against the corps, to avoid which every exertion should be used to keep the firemen on good
terms with the populace.

The mornings, too, at this early hour, are dark for more than half the year, and the firemen
are thus accustomed to work by torch-light, and sometimes without any light whatever, except
the few public lamps which are then burning. And, as most fires happen in the night, the advantage
of drilling in the dark must be sufficiently obvious.

The inhabitants have sometimes complained of being disturbed with the noise of the engines
at so early an hour; but when the object has been explained, they have generally submitted,
with a good grace, to this slight evil. A different part of the city being always chosen for
each successive drill, the annoyance occasioned to any one district is very trifling, and of
very unfrequent occurrence.

On the Tuesday evening preceding the drill, the captains are informed when and where the men
are to assemble. These orders they communicate to the individual firemen. A point of rendezvous
being thus given to the whole body, every man, who is not on the spot at the hour appointed,
fully equipped, with his clothes and accoutrements in good order, is subjected to a fine. Arrived
on the ground, the men are divided into two parties, each party consisting of two companies,
that being the number required to work each large engine without any assistance from the populace.
The whole are then examined as to the condition of their clothing and equipments.

The captains, sergeants, and pioneers of each company alternately take the duty of directing
the engine, attaching the hose, &c., while the whole of each party not engaged in these duties
take the levers as firemen. The call is then given to move forward, the men setting off at
a quick walking pace, and, on the same call being repeated, they get into a smart trot. When
the call to stop is given, with orders to attach one or more lengths of hose to the engine
and fire-cock, it is done in the following manner:--No. 1 takes out the branch pipe, and runs
out as far as he thinks the hose ordered to be attached will reach, and there remains; No.
2 takes a length of hose out of the engine, and uncoils it towards No. 1; and No. 3 attaches
the hose to the engine. If more than one length is required, No. 4 takes out another, couples
it to the former length, and then uncoils it. If a third length is wanted, No. 3 comes up with
it, after having attached the first length to the engine. If more lengths are still wanted,
No: 2 goes back to the engine for another; Nos. 3 and 4 follow, and so on till the requisite
length is obtained; No. 1 then screws on the branch-pipe at the farther extremity of the last
length.[H] While Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 are attaching the hose to the engine, No. 5 opens the
fire-cock door, screws on the distributor, and attaches the length of hose, which No. 6 uncoils;
Nos. 7 and 8 assist, if more than one length of hose be required. Immediately on the call being
given to attach the hose, the sergeant locks the fore-carriage of the engine, and unlocks the
levers. The fire-cock being opened by No. 5 (who remains by it as long as it is being used),
the sergeant holds the end of the hose which supplies the engine, and at the same time superintends
the men who work the levers. The call being given to work the engine, the whole of the men,
Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, the captain and sergeant excepted, work at the levers along with the
men of the other company.

Although these operations may appear complicated, they are all completed, and the engine in
full play, with three lengths, or 120 feet of hose, in one minute and ten seconds, including
the time required for the water to fill the engine so far as to allow it to work.

In order to excite a spirit of emulation, as well as to teach the men dexterity in working
the engines, I frequently cause a competition amongst them. They are ordered to attach one
or more lengths of hose to each of two engines, and to work them as quickly as possible, the
first engine which throws water being considered the winner. They are sometimes also placed
at an equal distance from each of two separate fire-cocks; on the call being given to move
forward, each party starts for the fire-cock to which it is ordered, and the first which gets
into play is of course held to have beat the other. The call to stop is then given, and both
parties return to their former station, with their hose coiled up, and everything in proper
travelling order; the first which arrives being understood to have the advantage.

The men are also carefully and regularly practised in taking their hose up common-stairs, drawing
them up by ropes on the outside, and generally in accustoming themselves to, and providing
against, every circumstance which may be anticipated in the case of fire.

When a fire occurs in a common-stair, the advantages arising from this branch of training are
incalculable. The occupants, in some cases amounting to twenty or thirty families, hurrying
out with their children and furniture, regardless of everything except the preservation of
their lives and property, and the rush of the crowd to the scene of alarm, form altogether,
notwithstanding the exertions of an excellent police, such a scene of confusion as those only
who have witnessed it can imagine; and here it is that discipline and unity of purpose are
indispensable; for, unless each man has already been taught and accustomed to the particular
duty expected from him, he only partakes of the general alarm, and adds to the confusion. But
even when a hose has been carried up the interior of a common-stair, the risk of damage from
the people carrying out their furniture is so great, that the hose is not unfrequently burst,
almost as soon as the engine has begun to play. If the hose be carried up to the floor on fire
by the outside, the risk of damage is comparatively small, the hose in that case being only
exposed for a short distance in crossing the stair.

During a period of four years the only two firemen who lost their lives were run down by their
own engines; and, in order to avoid danger from this cause, they are frequently accustomed
suddenly to stop the engines when running down the steep streets with which this city abounds.
It is a highly necessary exercise, and is done by wheeling the engine smartly round to the
right or left, which has the effect of immediately stopping its course.

There is a branch of training which I introduced amongst the Edinburgh firemen some time ago,
which has been attended with more important advantages than was at first anticipated. I mean
the gymnastic exercises. The men are practised in these exercises (in a small gymnasium fitted
up for them in the head engine-house) regularly once a-week, and in winter sometimes twice:
attendance on their part is entirely voluntary; the best gymnasts (if otherwise equally qualified)
are always promoted in cases of vacancy.

So sensible were the Insurance Companies doing business here, of the advantages likely to arise
from the practice of these exercises, that on one occasion they subscribed upwards of 10l.,
which was distributed in medals and money among the most expert and attentive gymnasts of the
corps, at a competition in presence of the magistrates, commissioners of police, and managers
of insurance companies.

Amongst the many advantages arising from these exercises I shall notice only one or two. The
firemen, when at their ordinary employments, as masons, house-carpenters, &c., being accustomed
to a particular exercise of certain muscles only, there is very often a degree of stiffness
in their general movements, which prevents them from performing their duty as firemen with
that ease and celerity which are so necessary and desirable; but the gymnastic exercises, by
bringing all the muscles of the body into action, and by aiding the more general development
of the frame, tend greatly to remove or overcome this awkwardness. But its greatest advantage
is the confidence it gives to the men when placed in certain situations of danger. A man, for
example, in the third or fourth floor of a house on fire, who is uncertain as to his means
of escape, in the event of his return by the stair being cut off, will not render any very
efficient service in extinguishing the fire; his own safety will be the principal object of
his attention, and till that is to a certain extent secured, his exertions are not much to
be relied upon. An experienced gymnast, on the other hand, placed in these circumstances, finds
himself in comparative security. With a hatchet and eighty feet of cord at his command, and
a window near him, he knows there is not much difficulty in getting to the street; and this
confidence not only enables him to go on with his duty with more spirit, but his attention
not being abstracted by thoughts of personal danger, he is able to direct it wholly to the
circumstances of the fire. He can raise himself on a window sill, or the top of a wall, if
he can only reach it with his hands; and by his hands alone he may sustain himself in situations
where other means of support are unattainable, till the arrival of assistance. These are great
advantages; but, as I said before, the greatest of all is that feeling of safety with which
it enables a fireman to proceed with his operations, uncertainty or distraction being the greatest
of possible evils. The cord carried at the waist-belt of the captains, sergeants, and pioneers,
being fully sufficient to sustain a man's weight, and with the assistance of their small hatchets
easily made fast, and the pioneers always being two together, there is thus no difficulty in
descending even from a height of eighty feet: the cords should be doubled by way of security.

I.--GENERAL REGULATIONS OF THE EDINBURGH FIRE BRIGADE.

A list of the engine-houses, and the residences of the superintendent and head enginemen in
each district shall be publicly advertised, that no one may be ignorant where to apply in cases
of fire; and, in the event of fire breaking out in any house, the possessor shall be bound
to give instant notice of it at the nearest station; and shall take particular care to keep
all doors and windows shut in the premises where the fire happens to be.

"Fire-engine house" shall be painted in large characters on one or more prominent places of
each engine-house; and the residences of the master of engines, head enginemen, inspectors
of gas companies, and water-officers of the district, shall likewise be marked there.

The head enginemen and firemen shall reside as near the engine-house as possible.

As, in the case of a fire breaking out, it may be necessary to break open the doors of houses
and shops in the neighbourhood, in order to prevent the fire from spreading, it is ordered,
that no possessors of houses or shops in the neighbourhood shall go away, after the fire has
broken out, without leaving the key of their house or shop, as otherwise the door will be broken
open, if necessary; and it is recommended that all possessors of shops shall have the place
of their residence painted upon their shop-doors, that notice may be sent them when necessary.

II.--POLICE.

Upon any watchman discovering fire, he shall call the neighbouring watchmen to his assistance--shall
take the best means in his power to put all concerned upon their guard--and shall immediately
send off notice to the nearest office and engine-house. The watchman, who is despatched to
give these intimations, shall run as far as he can, and shall then send forward any other watchman
whom he may meet, he himself following at a walk to communicate his information, in case of
any mistake on the part of the second messenger.

Upon intimation of a fire being received at the main office, or a district office, the head
officer on duty shall instantly give notice thereof to the head engineman of the district,
to the master of engines, to the water-officers of the district, and to the inspectors of the
different gas-light companies, and shall have power, if his force at the office at the time
be deficient, to employ the nearest watchmen for these purposes; and, on intimation being first
received at a district-office, the officer on duty in the office shall immediately send notice
to the main office.

Upon intimation being received at the main office, the officer on duty shall also instantly
send notice to the superintendent of police, and the lieutenants not at the office at the time--to
the master of engines; to the head enginemen of the various districts; to the superintendent
of the water company; to the lord provost or chief magistrate for the time; to the sheriff
of the county; to the bailie residing nearest the place; to the dean of guild; to the members
of fire-engine committee of commissioners of police; to the moderator of the high constables;
and also to the managers of the different gaslight companies.

The officer on duty at the main office shall, with the least possible delay, send off to the
fire a party of his men, under the command of a lieutenant or other officer.

This party, on arriving at the spot, shall clear off the crowd, and keep open space and passages
for the firemen and others employed.

The officer commanding this party of the police shall attend to no instructions except such
as he shall receive from the acting chief magistrate attending; or, in absence of a magistrate,
from any member of the committee on fire-engines; and the men shall attend to the instructions
of their own officer alone.

Three or more policemen shall be in attendance upon the acting chief magistrate and fire-engine
committee; two policemen shall constantly attend the master of the engines, to be at his disposal
entirely; and one policeman shall attend with the water-officer at each fire-cock that may
be opened.

The superintendent of police shall always have a list of extra policemen hung up in the police-office,
who, upon occasions of fire, may be called out, if necessary, and twenty of these extra men
shall always be called out upon notice of fire being received at the main office, for the purpose
of attending at the police-office, and rendering assistance where it may be required. The superintendent
shall likewise have a supply of fire-buckets, flambeaux, and lanterns, at the office, to be
ready when wanted.

There shall be no ringing of alarm-bells, beating of drums, or springing of rattles, except
by written order from the chief magistrate for the time; but the alarm may be given by despatching
messengers, with proper badges, through different parts of the town, when considered necessary.

III. SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE BRIGADE.

On receiving notice of a fire, the superintendent shall instantly equip himself in his uniform,
and repair to the spot where the fire is.

The necessary operations to be adopted shall be under his absolute control, and he will issue
his instructions to the head enginemen and firemen.

The superintendent shall report from time to time to the chief magistrate in attendance (through
such medium as may be at his command, but without his leaving the spot), the state of the fire,
and whether a greater number of policemen, or a party of the military, be required, and anything
else which may occur to him; and the master shall observe the directions of the chief magistrate
attending, and those of no other person whatever.

The superintendent shall frequently inspect the engines, and all the apparatus connected therewith;
he shall be responsible for the whole being at all times in good order and condition; and he
shall have a general muster and inspection at least once every three months, when the engines
and all the apparatus shall be tried. He shall also instruct the enginemen, firemen, and the
watchmen, to unlock the plates, and screw on the distributors of the fire-cocks, or open the
fire-plugs.

Whenever any repairs or new apparatus shall appear to be necessary, the superintendent shall
give notice to the clerk of the police, whose duty it shall be instantly to convene the committee
on fire-engines.

Upon a fire breaking out, the superintendent shall lose as little time as possible in stationing
chimney-sweepers on the roofs of the adjoining houses, to keep them clear of flying embers;
and also persons in each flat of the adjoining houses, to observe their state, and report if
any appearances of danger should arise; such persons taking as much care as possible to keep
all doors and windows of said flats shut, and the doors and windows of the premises where the
fire happens to be shall, so far as practicable, be carefully kept shut.

The superintendent shall forthwith prepare regulations for the firemen, &c., under his charge,
and report the same to the committee on fire-engines for their approval. Every fireman shall
be furnished with a copy of such regulations, and shall be bound to make himself master of
its contents; and it shall be the duty of the superintendent to see that the instructions are
duly attended to in training and exercising the men.

IV.--HEAD ENGINEMEN.

Each head engineman shall attend to the engines placed in his district, and all the apparatus
connected therewith, and report to the superintendent when any repairs or new apparatus seem
requisite, and shall be responsible for the engines being in proper working condition at all times.

Upon receiving notice of a fire, the head enginemen shall call out the firemen in their respective
districts; and they shall all repair, perfectly equipped, with the utmost expedition, to the
spot where the fire happens to be, carrying along with them the engines and apparatus.

The head enginemen shall have the carts and barrels attached to their several districts always
in readiness, in good order, and the barrels filled with water, which shall accompany the engines
to the fire.

On arriving at the spot, the head enginemen shall take their instructions from the superintendent,
or, in his absence, from the chief magistrate in attendance on the spot; or, in their absence,
from a member of the fire-engine committee, and from no other person whatever.

V.--FIREMEN.

The firemen shall attend at all times when required by the head enginemen or superintendent,
as well as upon the days of general inspection. They shall keep their engines in good order
and condition, and shall be equipped in their uniform at all times when called out.

They shall observe the instructions of no person whatever, except those of the superintendent
or head enginemen.

VI.--HIGH CONSTABLES AND COMMISSIONERS OF POLICE.

Upon occasions of fire, the moderator of the high constables shall call out the high constables,
and, if necessary, he shall also call out the extra constables, and give notice to call out
the constables of their districts; and it shall be the duty of the constables to preserve order
and to protect property, to keep the crowd away from the engines, and those employed about
them; and, when authorized by the chief magistrate, superintendent of engines, or, in the absence
of a magistrate, by a member of the committee on fire-engines, to provide men for working the
engines.

Neither the constables nor the commissioners of police shall assume any management, or give
any directions whatsoever, except in absence of a magistrate and the superintendent of engines,
in which case any member of the committee on fire-engines may give orders to the head enginemen.

In cases of protracted fire, when extra men may be required to relieve the regular establishment,
it shall be the duty of the high constables to collect those wanted, from amongst the persons
on the street who may be willing to lend their assistance, mustering them in such parties as
may be required, taking a note of their names, and furnishing each individual with a certificate
or ticket, with which the moderator of the high constables, or chief constable at the time,
will be supplied; and no person shall receive any remuneration for alleged assistance given
at a fire who may not produce such certificate or ticket.

The party or parties so mustered shall be placed and continue under the care of two high constables,
until required for service, when they shall be moved forward to the engine.

The men relieved by the party so moved forward, shall be taken charge of by two high constables,
who shall see them properly refreshed and brought back within a reasonable time, so that the
men employed may thus occasionally relieve each other without confusion, and without being
too much exhausted.

VII.--MAGISTRATES, &c.

Upon occasion of fires, the magistrates, sheriff, moderator of the high constables, the superintendent
of the water company, the managers of the different gas-light companies, and the fire-engine
committee, will give their attendance. They will assemble in such house nearest to the place
of the fire as can be procured, of which notice shall be immediately given to the officer commanding
the police on the spot.

The orders of the chief magistrate in attendance shall be immediately obeyed; and no order,
except those issued by such magistrate, and the particular directions given as to the fire
and engine department by the master of engines, or, in their absence, by a member of the fire-engine
committee on the spot, shall be at all attended to.

The magistrates and sheriff further declare, that all porters holding badges shall be bound
to give their attendance at fires when called upon for that purpose.

VIII.--GAS-LIGHT COMPANIES.

The managers of the different gas-light companies, on receiving notice of a fire, shall instantly
take measures for turning off the gas from all shops and houses in the immediate neighbourhood
of the fire.

IX.--SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR THE FIREMEN.

Captains.--On the alarm of fire being given, an engine must be immediately despatched from
the main office to whatever district the fire may be in; and the captain in whose district
the fire happens shall bring his engine to the spot as quickly as possible, taking care that
none of the apparatus is awanting. On arriving at the spot, he must take every means in his
power to supply his engine with water, but especially by a service-pipe from a fire-cock, if
that be found practicable. Great care must be taken to place the engine so that it may be in
the direction of the water, with sufficient room on all sides to work it, but as little in
the way of persons employed in carrying out furniture, &c., as possible. He must also examine
the fire while the men are fixing the hose, &c., that the water may be directed with the best
effect.

The captains shall be responsible for any misconduct of their men, when they fail to report
such misconduct to the superintendent.

The engines must be at all times in good working order, and the captain shall report to the
superintendent when any part of the apparatus is in need of repair.

When the fire is in another district, the captain of each engine shall get his men and engine
ready to proceed at a moment's notice, but must not move from his engine-house till a special
order arrives from a lieutenant of police or the superintendent of brigade.

Sergeants.--The sergeant of each engine will take the command in absence of the captain. When
the captain is present, the sergeant will give him all possible assistance in conducting the
engine to the fire; and it will there be more particularly the sergeant's duty to see that
the engine is supplied with water, and that every man is at his proper station, and to remain
with his engine while on duty, whether it is working or not, unless he receives special orders
to the contrary.

Pioneers.--Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 of each engine will be considered pioneers. Nos. 1 and 2 will
proceed to the fire immediately, without going to their engine-house, in order to prepare for
the arrival of the first engine, by ascertaining and clearing a proper station for it, and
by making ready the most available supplies of water, as also to examine the state of the premises
on fire and the neighbouring ones, so as to be able to give such information to the captain
on his arrival as may enable him to apply his force with the greatest effect. The pioneers
will attend particularly to the excluding of air from the parts on fire by every means in their
power, and they will ascertain whether there are any communications with the adjoining house
by the roof, gable, or otherwise. When the several engines arrive, the pioneers will fall in
with their own company, and take their farther orders from the captain or sergeant.

Firemen.--On the alarm of fire being given, the whole company belonging to each engine (Nos.
1 and 2 excepted) shall assemble as speedily as possible at their engine-house, and act with
spirit under the orders of their officers in getting everything ready for service. Each man
will get a ticket with his own number and the colour of his engine marked upon it; and on all
occasions when he comes on duty he will give this ticket into the hands of a policeman, who
will be appointed by the officer of police on duty to collect them at each engine-house, and
who will accompany the engine if it is ordered to the fire.

If the ticket be not given in, as before provided, within half an hour after the alarm is given
at their engine-house, or at all events, within half an hour after the arrival of the engine
at the fire, the defaulter will forfeit the allowance for turning out, and also the first hour's
pay.

If not given in within the first hour, he will forfeit all claim to pay.

The superintendent, however, may do away the forfeiture in any of these cases, on cause being
shown to his satisfaction.

On quarter-days and days of exercise, every man must be ready equipped at the appointed hour,
otherwise he will forfeit that day's pay, or such part of it as the superintendent may determine.

Any man destroying his equipments, or wearing them when off duty, will be punished by fine
or dismissal from the service, as the superintendent may determine.

Careless conduct, irregular attendance at exercise, or disobedience of superior officers, to
be punished as above-mentioned.

The man who arrives first at the engine-house to which he belongs, properly equipped, will
receive three shillings over and above the pay for turning out.

The first of the Nos. 1 and 2 who arrives at the fire, properly equipped, in whatever district
it may be, will receive three shillings over and above the pay for turning out.

No pay will be allowed for a false alarm, unless the same is given by a policeman.

As nothing is so hurtful to the efficiency of an establishment for extinguishing fires as unnecessary
noise, irregularity, or insubordination, it is enjoined on all to observe quietness and regularity,
to execute readily whatever orders they may receive from their officers, and to do nothing
without orders. The same rule will apply to each succeeding engine which takes up a station.

The men must be careful not to allow their attention to be distracted from their duty by listening
to directions from any persons except their own officers; and they will refer every one who
applies to them for aid to the superintendent, or to the chief magistrate present at the time.

All the firemen must be particularly careful to let the policemen on their respective stations
know where they live, and take notice when the policeman is changed, that they may give the
new one the requisite information.

All concerned are strictly enjoined to preserve their presence of mind, not to lose temper,
and upon no occasion whatsoever to give offence to the inhabitants by making use of uncivil
language or behaving rudely.

*** Every one belonging to the establishment will be furnished with a printed copy of these
Regulations, which they are enjoined carefully to preserve and read over at least once every week.

MEANS OF ESCAPE FROM FIRE.

[The following was written in the year 1830, and does not refer to Public Fire-Escapes other
than those that can be carried with a Fire-Engine.--EDITOR.]

When the lower floors of a house are on fire, and the stairs or other ordinary means of retreat
destroyed, the simplest and easiest mode of removing the inhabitants from the upper floors,
is by a ladder placed against the wall. In order to be able at all times to carry this plan
into effect, the person having charge of the engines should (as far as possible) inform himself
where long ladders are to be had, and how they can most easily be removed.

But if a ladder of sufficient length is not to be procured, or is at too great a distance to
render it safe to wait for it, recourse must immediately be had to other means.

If it happens that the windows above are all inaccessible, on account of the flames bursting
through those below, the firemen should immediately get on the roof (by means of the adjoining
houses,) and descend by the hatch. The hatch, however, being sometimes directly above the stair,
is in that case very soon affected by the fire and smoke. If, on approaching, it is found to
be so much so as to render an entrance in that way impracticable, the firemen should instantly
break through the roof, and, descending into the upper floors, extricate those within. If it
should happen, however, that the persons in danger are not in the upper floor, and cannot reach
it in consequence of the stair being on fire, the firemen should continue breaking through
floor after floor till they reach them. In so desperate a case as this the shorter process
may probably be to break through the party-wall between the house on fire and that adjoining,
when there is one; and when there is no house immediately contiguous, through the gable, taking
care in either case to break through at the back of a closet, press, chimney, or other recess,
where the wall is thinnest. If an opening has been made from the adjoining house, it should
immediately (after having served the purpose for which it was made) be built up with brick
or stone, to prevent the fire spreading. All these operations should be performed by slaters,
masons, or house-carpenters, who, being better acquainted with such work, are likely to execute
it in a shorter time than others--time, in such a case, being everything, as a few minutes
lost may cost the lives of the whole party. It is not impossible, however, that circumstances
may occur to render all or either of these plans impracticable; in that case, one or two of
the lower windows must be darkened, and by this means access gained to the upper ones. The
plan recommended by the Parisian firemen is, for a man to wrap himself up in a wet blanket,
and thus pass swiftly through the flames. But this effort is only to be attempted when the
flames from a single door are to be passed; in any other case the stair will most likely be
in flames, and impassable.

A simple means of escape from fire is to have an iron ring fastened to the window sill, and
inside of the room a cradle, with a coil of rope attached to it. The rope is put through the
ring, and the person wishing to escape gets into the cradle, and lowers himself down by passing
the rope through his hands. The great objection to this plan, which is certainly very simple,
is the difficulty, or rather impossibility, of persuading people to provide themselves with
the necessary materials. Many men, too, are incapable of the exertion upon which the whole
plan depends; and if men in a state of terror are unfit for such a task, what is to become
of women and children?

Any fire-escape, to be generally useful, must, in the first place, be capable of being carried
about without encumbering the fire-engine; and, in the next place, must be of instant and simple
application. The means which appear to me to possess these qualifications in the highest degree,
is a combination of the cradle plan, with Captain Manby's admirable invention for saving shipwrecked
seamen.

The apparatus necessary for this fire-escape is a chain-ladder eighty feet long, a single chain
or rope of the same length as the ladder, a canvas bag, a strong steel cross-bow, and a fine
cord of the very best workmanship and materials, 130 feet long, with a lead bullet of three-ounce
weight attached to one end, and carefully wound upon a wooden cone seven inches high and seven
inches broad at the base, turned with a spiral groove, to prevent the cord slipping when wound
upon it, also a small pulley with a claw attached to it, and a cord reeved through it of sufficient
strength to bear the weight of the ladder.

In order to prevent the sides of the ladder from collapsing, the steps are made of copper or
iron tube, fastened by a piece of cord passed through the tube and into the links of the chain,
till the tube is filled. The steps thus fastened are tied to the chain with copper-wire, so
that, in the event of the cord being destroyed, the steps will be retained in their places
by the wire. The ladder is provided with two large hooks at one end, for the purpose of fixing
it to a roof, window-sill, &c. The bag is of canvas, three feet wide and four feet deep, with
cords sewed round the bottom, and meeting at the top, where they are turned over an iron thimble
at each side of the mouth of the bag. The steel cross-bow is of the ordinary description, of
sufficient strength to throw the lead bullet with the cord attached, 120 feet high.

When the house from which the persons in danger are to be extricated is so situated that the
firemen can get to the roof by passing along the tops of the adjoining houses, they will carry
up the chain-ladder with them, and drop it over the window where the inmates show themselves,
fastening the hooks at the same time securely in the roof. The firemen will descend by the
ladder into the window, and putting the persons to be removed into the bag, lower them down
into the street by the single chain. If the flames are issuing from the windows below, the
bag, when filled, is easily drawn aside into the window of the adjoining house, by means of
a guy or guide-rope.

If the house on fire stands by itself, or if access cannot be had to the roof by means of the
adjoining houses, the lead bullet, with the cord attached, is thrown over the house by means
of the cross-bow; to this cord a stronger one is attached, and drawn over the house by means
of the former; a single chain is then attached, and drawn over in like manner; and to this
last is attached the chain-ladder, which, on being raised to the roof, the firemen ascend,
and proceed as before directed.

If the house be so high that the cord cannot be thrown over far enough to be taken hold of
by those on the opposite side, then the persons to be extricated must take hold of the cord,
as it hangs past the window at which they may have placed themselves. By means of it they draw
up the small pulley, and hook it on the window-sill. The chain-ladder is then made fast to
the end of the cord, and drawn up by those below. When the end of the chain-ladder comes in
front of the window, the persons inside fasten the hooks of the ladder on its sill, or to the
post of a bed, the bars of a grate, or anything likely to afford a sufficient hold. After having
ascertained that the ladder is properly fixed, the firemen will ascend and proceed as in the
former cases.

I must here remark, that before this plan can be properly put in execution, the firemen must
be regularly trained to the exercise. When the firemen here are practised with the fire-escape,
the man ascending or descending has a strong belt round his middle, to which another chain
is fastened, and held by a man stationed at the window for that purpose; if any accident, therefore,
were to occur with the chain-ladder, the man cannot fall to the ground, but would be swung
by the chain attached to the belt round his body. The men are also frequently practised in
ascending and descending by single chains. The firemen here are very fond of the above exercise;
the bagging each other seems to amuse them exceedingly.[I]

The last resort, in desperate cases, is to leap from the window. When this is to be attempted,
mattresses, beds, straw, or other soft substances, should be collected under the window; a
piece of carpet or other strong cloth should be held up by ten or twelve stout men. The person
in the window may then leap, as nearly as possible, into the centre of the cloth, and if he
has sufficient resolution to take a fair leap, he may escape with comparatively little injury.[J]

FIRE-ENGINES.

In the application of manual power to the working of fire-engines, the principal object is,
to apply the greatest aggregate power to the lightest and smallest machine; that is, suppose
two engines of the same size and weight, the one with space for 20 men to work throws 60 gallons
per minute; and the other, with space for 30 men, throws 80 gallons in the same time; the latter
will be the most useful engine, although each man is not able to do so much work as at the former.

The reciprocating motion is generally preferred to the rotary for fire-engines. Independent
of its being the most advantageous movement, a greater number of men can be employed at an
engine of the same size and weight; there is less liability to accident with people unacquainted
with the work, and such as are quite ignorant of either mode of working, work more freely at
the reciprocating than the rotary motion. To these reasons may be added, the greater simplicity
of the machinery.

Various sizes of engines, of different degrees of strength and weight, have been tried, and
it is found that a fire-engine with two cylinders of 7 inches diameter, and a stroke of 8 inches,
can be made sufficiently strong at 17-1/2 cwt. If 4 cwt. be added for the hose and tools, it
will be found quite as heavy as two fast horses can manage, for a distance under six miles,
with five firemen and a driver.

This size of engine has been adopted by the Board of Admiralty and the Board of Ordnance, and
its use is becoming very general.

When engines are made larger, it is seldom that the proper proportions are preserved, and they
are generally worked with difficulty, and soon fatigue the men at the levers.

When an engine is large, it not only requires a considerable number of men to work it, but
it is not easily supplied with water; and, above all, it cannot be moved about with that celerity
on which, in a fire-engine establishment, everything depends. When the engine is brought into
actual operation, the effect to be produced depends less on the quantity of water thrown than
upon its being made actually to strike the burning materials, the force with which it does
so, and the steadiness with which the engine is worked. If the water be steadily directed upon
the burning materials, the effect even of a small quantity is astonishing.

When a large engine is required in London, two with 7-inches cylinders are worked together
by means of a connecting screw, thus making a jet very nearly equal (as 98 to 100) to that
of an engine with cylinders 10 inches diameter.

It is also an advantage not unworthy of consideration, that two 7-inch engines may be had nearly
for the price of one 10-inch one; so that if one happens to be rendered unserviceable the other
may still be available.

The usual rate of working an engine of the size described is 40 strokes of each cylinder per
minute; this gives 88 gallons. The number of men required to keep steadily at work for three
or four hours is 26; upwards of 30 men are sometimes put on when a great length of hose is
necessary. The lever is in the proportion of 4-1/4 to 1. With 40 feet of leather hose and a
7/8 inch jet, the pressure is 30 lb. on the square inch; this gives 10.4 lbs. to each man to
move a distance of 226 feet in one minute. The friction increases the labour 2-1/2 per cent.
for every additional 40 feet of hose, which shows the necessity of having the engine, and of
course the supply of water, as close to the fire as is consistent with the safety of the men
at the levers.

In order that the reader may have a distinct idea of such a fire-engine, I shall here endeavour
to give a description, chiefly taken from those made by W. J. Tilley,[K] fire-engine maker, London.

The engravings (figs. 1 and 2) represent a fire-engine of 7-inch barrels and 8-inch stroke.[L]
The cistern marked A is made of mahogany or oak. The upper work, B, and side-boxes or pockets,
C, are of Baltic fir. The sole, D, upon which the barrels stand, and which also contains the
valves, is of cast-iron, with covers of the same material, which are screwed down, and the
joints made good with leather or india-rubber. The pieces E, at each end of the cast-iron sole
D, are of cast brass, and screwed to the cast-iron sole D, with a joint the same as above.
In one of these pieces is the screwed suction-cap F, and to the other is attached the air-vessel
G, made of sheet-copper, and attached to the piece E by a screw. The exit-pipe H is attached
to the under side of the casting E by a swivel. The valves at I are of brass, ground so as
to be completely water-tight. The barrels K are of cast brass. The engine is set on four grasshopper
springs M. The shafts or handles O, of the levers P, are of lancewood. The box S, under the
driving seat, is used for keeping wrenches, cord, &c.; in the fore part of the cistern A, and
the box B above the cistern, the hose is kept; the branch and suction-pipes are carried in
the side-boxes or pockets C; the rest of the tools and materials are kept along with the above-mentioned
articles, in such situations as not to interfere with the working of the engine.

The cistern is made of oak or mahogany, for strength and durability; but, for the sake of lightness,
the upper work and side-boxes are made of Baltic fir, strength in them being of less importance.

As the valve cannot be made without a rise for the lid to strike against, there is a small
step at each of the valves, and the sole is carried through as high as this step, to admit
of the water running off when the engine is done working. If constructed in a different manner,
the water will lodge in the bottom, and produce much inconvenience in situations where the
engine is exposed to frost.

The valve-covers are of cast-iron, fastened down with copper screws, a piece of leather or
india-rubber being placed between them and the upper edges of the sole.

The pieces at each end of the sole are of cast-brass, instead of sheet-copper, with soft-solder
joints, which are very apt to give way.

The screwed suction cap with iron handle admits the water in two different directions, according
as it is open or closed: the one to supply the engine when water is drawn from the cistern,
the other for drawing water through the suction-pipe.

The valves are brass plates, truly ground to fit the circular brass orifice on which they fall.
The brass being well ground, no leather is used for the purpose of making them tight. The longer
they are used the better they fit, and by having no leather about them they are less liable
to the adhesion of small stones or gravel. The whole valve is put together and then keyed into
a groove in the sides and bottom of the sole, left for that purpose.

The barrels are of cast-brass, with a piston made of two circular pieces of the same metal,
each put into a strong leather cup, and bolted to the other. The bottoms of the cups being
together, when the piston becomes loose in the barrels, and there is not sufficient time to
replace the cups by new ones, they are easily tightened by putting a layer of hemp round the
piston between the leather and the brass. This operation, however, requires to be carefully
performed; for if more hemp is put into one part than another it is apt to injure the barrels.
The barrels are fixed to the cast-iron sole by copper screws, a little red lead being placed
between the bottom flange of the barrel and the sole.

When the engine is likely to be dragged over rough roads or causeways, it is of importance
to have it set on springs, to prevent the jolting from affecting the working part of the engine,
everything depending on that being right.

The engines used in Paris are mounted on two wheels, the carriage and the engine being separate,
the latter being dismounted from the former before it can be used. In Paris, where the engines
are managed by a corps of regularly-trained firemen, this may answer well enough; but if hastily
or carelessly dismounted by unskilful persons, the engine may be seriously damaged. It is also
worthy of remark, that the proper quantity of hose, tools, &c., can be more easily attached
to and carried on a four-wheeled engine.

In order that the men may work more easily at the handles, and suffer less fatigue, the engine
is not higher than to enable them to have the levers easily under their command. The shafts
of the levers are of lancewood, being best calculated to bear the strain to which they are
exposed when the engine is at work, and they are made to fold up at each end for convenience
in travelling.

The air-vessel should be placed clear of any other part of the engine, excepting only the point
where it is attached.

The fore-carriage of the engine is fitted with a pole, and is made to suit the harness of coach-horses,
these being, in large towns, more easily procured than other draught cattle; this can be altered,
however, to suit such harness as can most readily be obtained. Where horses are seldom used
to move the engines, a drag-handle is attached, by which one or two men are able easily to
direct the progress of the engine.

Two drag-ropes, each twenty-five feet long, of three-inch rope, with ten loops to each, are
attached, one to each end of the splinter-bar, by means of which the engines are dragged; and
to prevent the loops collapsing on the hand, they are partly lined with sheet-copper.

The whole of the brass work of an engine should be of the best gun-metal, composed of copper
and tin only. Yellow brass should never be used; even at first it is far inferior to gun-metal,
and after being used for some time it gets brittle. The whole of the materials used in the
construction of a fire-engine should be of the best description.

In London for some years past a hand-pump has been carried with each engine. They have been
found of the greatest service in keeping doors, windows, &c., cool. They throw from six to
eight gallons per minute, to a height of from thirty to forty feet, and can be used in any
position. The idea of the hand-pumps I took from the old-fashioned squirt, or "hand-engine."

When fire-engines are unserviceable it arises more frequently from want of care in keeping
in order than from any damage they may have received in actual service or by the wearing out
of the materials; so it is quite plain that this important part of the duty has not generally
had that degree of attention paid to it which it deserves.

Although an engine were to be absolutely perfect in its construction, if carelessly thrown
aside after being brought home from a fire, and allowed to remain in that state till the next
occasion, it would be in vain (especially in small towns, where alarms are rare) to expect
to find it in a serviceable condition; some of the parts must have grown stiff, and if brought
into action in this state something is likely to give way.

When an engine is brought back from a fire, it ought to be immediately washed, the cistern
cleaned out, the barrels and journals cleaned and fresh oil put on them, the wheels greased,
and every part of the engine carefully cleaned and examined, and if any repairs are needed
they should be executed immediately. When all this has been attended to clean hose should be
put in, and the engine is again fit for immediate service. Besides this cleaning and examination
after use, the engine ought to be examined and the brass part cleaned once a week, and worked
with water once a month whether it has been used or not.

In addition to the keeping of the engine always in an effective state, this attention has the
advantage of reminding the men of their duty, and making them familiar with every part of the
mechanism of the engine; thus teaching them effectually how the engines ought to be protected
when at work, by enabling them to discover those parts most liable to be damaged, and to which
part damage is the most dangerous. It is more troublesome generally to get the engines well
kept when there are no fires, than when there are many. But the only effectual method of inducing
the men to keep them in good order, in addition to the moral stimulants of censure and applause,
is to fine those who have the charge of them for the slightest neglect.

When the engine has been properly placed, before beginning to work the fore-carriage should
be locked. This is done by putting an iron pin through a piece of wood attached to the cistern,
into the fore-carriage. This prevents the wheels from turning round, and coming under the shafts,
by which the latter might be damaged, and the hands of the men at work injured.

Small stones, gravel, and other obstructions, sometimes find their way into the nozzle of the
branch-pipe, from having dropped into the hose before being attached, or having been drawn
through the suction-pipe or from the cistern. Whenever the engine is found to work stiffly,
it should be stopped and examined, otherwise the pressure may burst the hose, or damage some
part of the engine. If anything impedes the action of the valves the pistons must be drawn,
and if a person's hand be then introduced they may easily be cleared--constant care and attention
to all the minutiæ of the engine and apparatus being absolutely indispensable, if effective
service be expected from them.

Considerable attention ought to be paid to the selecting a proper situation for an engine-house.
Generally speaking, it ought to be central, and on the highest ground of the district it is
meant to protect, and care should be taken to observe when any of the streets leading from
it are impassable.

If, in addition to these advantages, the engine-house can be had adjoining to a police watch-house,
it may be considered nearly perfect, in so far as regards situation. These advantages being
all attained, the engine can be conveyed to any particular spot by a comparatively small number
of men, while the vicinity of a police watch-house affords a facility of communicating the
alarm of fire to the firemen not to be obtained otherwise. When the engine-house is placed
in a low situation the men who first arrive must wait till the others come forward to assist
them to drag the engine up the ascent, and many minutes must thus be lost at a time when moments
are important.

After choosing a proper situation for the engine-house, the next care should be directed towards
having it properly ventilated, as nothing contributes more to the proper keeping of the engines
and hose than fresh and dry air. For this purpose a stove should be fitted up, by which the
temperature may be kept equal. When engines are exposed to violent alternations of heat and
cold, they will be found to operate very considerably on the account for repairs, besides occasioning
the danger of the engine being frozen and unserviceable when wanted.

There ought to be at least half a dozen keys for each engine-house, which should be kept by
the firemen, watchmen, and those connected with the establishment, that the necessity of breaking
open the door may not occur.

DESCRIPTION OF TOOLS WITH WHICH EACH ENGINE IS PROVIDED.

Having considered the sort of fire-engine which is best adapted for general purposes, I shall
now notice the different articles which, in London, are always attached to, and accompany,
each engine of this kind:--

     7 coils of hose, 40 feet each.
     4 bundles of sheepskin and lay-cord.
     4 lengths of suction-pipe, each between 6 and 7 feet long.
     2 branch pipes.
     3 jet pipes or nozzles and an elbow for jet.
     3 wrenches for coupling-joints.
     2 lamps.
     2 lengths of scaling ladder.
     1 fire-hook.
     60 feet of patent line, and 20 feet of trace line.
     1 mattock.
     1 shovel.
     1 hatchet or pole-axe.
     1 saw.
     1 iron crow-bar.
     1 portable cistern.
     1 flat suction strainer.
     1 standcock, and hook for street plugs.
     1 screw wrench.
     1 canvas sheet with 10 or 12 rope handles round its edges.
     9 canvas buckets.
     1 hand-pump with 10 feet of hose and jet pipe.

Of these articles I shall endeavour to give a description as they stand in the above list.

The article of hose being first in order, as well as importance, merits particular attention.

The sort used is leather, made with copper rivets, and is by far the most serviceable and durable
hose that I have yet seen.

Manufacturers of this article, however, for a very obvious reason, are not always careful to
select that part of the hide which, being firmest, is best adapted for the purpose. Indeed,
I have known several instances wherein nearly the whole hide has been cut up and made into
hose, without any selection whatever. The effect of this is very prejudicial. The loose parts
of the hide soon stretch and weaken, and while, by stretching, the diameter of the pipe is
increased, the pressure of the water, in consequence, becomes greater on that than on any other
part of the hose, which is thereby rendered more liable to give way at such places.

Hose are frequently made narrow in the middle, and, in order to fit the coupling-joints, wide
at the extremities--a practice which lessens their capability of conveying a given quantity
of water, in proportion to the difference of the area of the section of the diameters at the
extremity and the middle part.

In order to make them fit the coupling-joints, when carelessly widened too much, I have frequently
seen them stuffed up with brown paper, and in that case they almost invariably give way, the
folds of the paper destroying the hold which the leather would otherwise have of the ridges
made on the ends of the coupling-joints.

In order to avoid all these faults and defects, the riveted hose used are made in the following
manner:--

The leather is nine and five-eighths inches broad (that being the breadth required for coupling-joints
of two and a half inches diameter of clear water-way), and levelled to the proper uniform thickness.
The leather used is taken from hides of the very best description, perfectly free from flesh-cuts,
warble-holes, or any other blemish, and stuffed as high as possible.[M] Not more than four
breadths are taken from each hide, and none of the soft parts about the neck, shoulders, or
belly are used. No piece of leather is less than four feet long.

The leather is gauged to the exact breadth, and holes punched in it for the rivets. In the
operation of punching, great care must be taken to make the holes on each side of the leather
exactly opposite to each other. If this precaution be not attended to, the seam when riveted
takes a spiral direction on the hose, which the heads of the rivets are very apt to cut at
the folds. Care must also be taken that the leather is equally stretched on both sides, otherwise
the number of holes on the opposite sides may be unequal. The ends are then cut at an angle
of thirty-seven degrees; if cut at a greater angle, the cross-joint will be too short, and
if at a smaller, the leather will be wasted. This must, however, be regulated in some degree
by the number of holes in the cross-joint, as the angle must be altered a little if the holes
at that part do not fit exactly with the holes along the side.

The different pieces of leather necessary to form one length, or forty feet of hose, are riveted
together by the ends.

Straps of leather, three inches broad, are then riveted across the pipe, ten feet apart, to
form loops for the purpose of handing or making fast the hose when full of water. The leather
is then laid along a bench, and a bar of iron, from eight to ten feet long, three inches broad,
and one inch thick, with the corners rounded off, is laid above it. The rivets are next put
into the holes on one side of the leather, along the whole length of the iron bar. The holes
on the other side are then brought over them, and the washers put on the points of the rivets,
and struck down with a hollow punch. The points of the rivets are then riveted down over the
washers, and finished with a setting punch. The bar of iron is drawn along, and the same operation
repeated till the length of the hose be finished.

The rivets and washers should be made of the best wrought copper, and must be well tinned before
being used.

Some objections have been made to riveted hose on account of the alleged difficulty of repairing
them; but this is not so serious a matter as may at first view appear. Indeed, they very seldom
require any repairs, and when they do, the process is not difficult. If any of the rivets be
damaged, as many must be taken out as will make room for the free admission of the hand. A
small flat mandrel being introduced into the hose, the new rivets are put into the leather,
and riveted up the same as new pipe; the mandrel is then shaken out at the end.

If the leather be damaged, it may be repaired either by cutting out the piece, and making a
new joint, or by riveting a piece of leather upon the hole.

The manner of attaching the hose to the coupling-joint is also a matter of very considerable
importance. If a joint come off when the engine is in operation, a whole length of hose is
rendered useless for the time, and a considerable delay incurred in getting it detached, and
another substituted.

To prevent this, the hose ought to fit as tightly as possible to the coupling-joint, without
any packing. In riveted hose, a piece of leather, thinned down to the proper size, should be
put on to make up the void which the thick edge of the leather next the rivet necessarily leaves;
the hose should then be tied to the coupling-joint as firmly as possible with the best annealed
copper wire, No. 16 gauge.

When the hose are completely finished in this manner they are proved by a proving-pump, and
if they stand a pressure of two hundred feet of water they are considered fit for service.
I may also add, that when any piece of hose has been under repair it is proved in the same
manner before it is deemed trustworthy.

The proving of the hose is of very considerable importance, and the method of doing so which
I have mentioned is greatly superior to the old plan of proving them on an engine or fire-cock.
By the latter method, no certain measure can be obtained by which the pressure can be calculated.
In the first place it must depend on the relative height of the reservoir from whence the water
is obtained and that of the fire-cock where the experiment is made; and as the supply of water
drawn from the pipes by the inhabitants may be different on different days of the week and
even in different hours of the day, it is quite evident that by this method no certain rule
can be formed for the purpose required, the pressure being affected by the quantity of water
drawn at the time.

The method of proving by an engine is considerably better than this; but when a proving-pump
can be obtained it is infinitely better than either. One disadvantage of an engine is, that
it requires a considerable number of men; but even the proof, that of throwing the water to
a given height on the gable of a house or other height, is not always a test of the sufficiency
of the hose. As the temperature is low or high, the wind fresh or light, the degree of pressure
on the hose in throwing the water to the required height will be greater or less. Indeed, in
high winds it is a matter of extreme difficulty to throw the water to any considerable height.

With an engine of 7-inch barrels and 7-inch stroke, fitted with eighty feet of 2-3/8-inch hose,
I have found from several experiments that when the water is thrown seventy-five feet high,
the pressure on the hose is equal to one hundred feet. The same engine, with 160 feet of hose,
and the branch-pipe raised fifty feet above the level of the engine, when the water was thrown
fifty-six feet from the branch, occasioned a pressure equal to 130 feet on the hose. From these
experiments, I am convinced that the pressure will not be equal to 200 feet, except in very
extreme cases, or when some obstacle gets into the jet pipe.

I tried the extreme strength of a piece of riveted hose 4 feet long and 2-3/8 inches diameter,
and found that it did not burst till the pressure increased to 500 feet; and when it gave way
the leather was fairly torn along the rivet-holes.

Every possible care should be taken to keep the hose soft and pliable, and to prevent its being
affected by mildew. After being used, in order to dry them equally they should be hung up by
the centre, with the two ends hanging down, until half dry. They should then be taken down
and rubbed over with a composition of bees'-wax, tallow, and neats-foot oil,[N] and again hung
up to allow the grease to sink into the leather. When the hose appear to be dry they should
be a second time rubbed with the composition, and then coiled up for use. In order that the
hose undergoing the operation of greasing may not be disturbed or used till in a fit state,
it is better to have a double set, and in this way, while one set is in grease the other is
in the engine ready and fit for service. More time can also be taken for any repairs which
may be necessary, and they will in consequence be more carefully done, and at fires where a
great length of hose is required the spare set will always be available. When the weather is
damp, and the hose cannot be dried so as to be fit for greasing in two or three days, a stove
should be put into the room in order to facilitate the process. The greatest care, however,
must be taken in the use of artificial heat. The whole apartment should be kept of one equal
temperature, which ought never to be higher than is requisite to dry the hose for greasing
in about forty hours.

Coupling-joints.[O]--So much of the efficiency and duration of the hose depend on the proper
form given to the brass coupling-joints, that I deem it useful to give a detailed description,
both of those generally made use of and of those adopted by the Edinburgh fire-establishment,
and also to point out their various defects and advantages.

Fig. 3 is the construction commonly made by engine-makers. Its defects are as follows:--From
the form of the furrows and ridges where the leather is tied it does not hold on well against
a force tending to pull the hose off end-ways; screw-nails are therefore often employed, as
at A, to secure the hose on the brass. The points of these nails always protrude more or less
into the inside of the joint, and materially impede the current of water. The mouths of the
joints are also turned outwards, and form a shoulder, as at B. The intention of this is probably
to assist in securing the leather in its place, and to prevent the lapping from slipping. The
effects of it are as follows:--First, from the leather being strained over this projection,
it becomes liable to be cut by every accidental injury, and very soon cracks and gives way,
when a portion must be cut off and a fresh fixing made; second, the leather being stretched
over the projection, does not fit the other part of the joint, and must be loose or filled
up with pieces of leather, or, as is sometimes done, with brown paper; third, the irregularity
of the calibre of the conduit which this shoulder occasions diminishes the performance of the
engine.

Fig. 4 is the coupling-joint adopted in Edinburgh. The furrows at the tying place are shallow,
but their edges present a powerful obstacle to the slipping of the leather. No screw-nails
are employed, nor is there any shoulder, as at B; there is therefore no impediment to or variation
in the velocity of the current, as the calibres of the coupling joints and of the hose are
so nearly uniform. It will be seen also that as the lapping projects above the leather this
latter can never be injured by falls or rubbing on the ground.

Another great advantage attending the joints used here is the manner in which their screws
are finished. On examining the figure minutely, it will be observed that the male-screw ends
in a cylinder of the diameter of the bottom of its thread, consequently of the diameter of
the top of the thread of the female-screw. The effect of this is, that, when the screws are
brought together, the cylindric portion serves as a guide to the threads, and the most inexperienced
person cannot fail to make them catch fair at the first trial. The advantage of this in the
circumstances attending fires is obvious.

These joints, although requiring three or four turns to close them up, yet as it is only the
ring D which requires to be turned, it can easily be done with the hand alone without the use
of wrenches. Although, when the whole length of hose has been jointed, it may be as well to
send a man with a pair of wrenches to set the joints firm; this, however, is by no means absolutely
necessary; if the joints are kept in proper order a man can secure them sufficiently with the hand.

There is also a facility in taking turns out of the hose, which no other but a swivel joint
affords. By slackening a single turn any twist may be taken out, without undoing the joint
or stopping the engine, while, from the number of turns required to close the joints, there
is no chance of the screw being by any accident undone. In order to prevent the threads from
being easily damaged, they should be of a pretty large size, not more than five or six to the
inch. For the same reason also the thread should be a little rounded.

As it sometimes happens that the screws are damaged by falling on the street, or by heavy bodies
striking them, whenever the hose have been used the joints should be tried by a steel gauge-screw,
to be kept for that purpose. This ought to be particularly attended to, as, on arriving at
a fire, it is rather an awkward time to discover that a joint has been damaged, while the delay
thus occasioned may be attended with very serious consequences.

Four Bundles of Sheepskin and Lay-cord.--These are simply four or five stripes of sheepskin,
each about three or four inches broad. When a leak occurs in a length of hose which cannot
be easily replaced at the time, one or more pieces of sheepskin are wrapt tightly over the
leak and tied firmly with a piece of cord. This is but an indifferent method of mending, but
I do not know of any other which can be so readily applied with the same effect. If another
length of hose can be substituted for the leaky one it is better to do so; but that is not
always at hand, nor does it always happen that time can be spared for the purpose.

Four Lengths of Suction-pipe.--These are generally made of leather, riveted tightly over a
spiral worm of hoop-iron, about three-quarters of an inch broad, a piece of tarred canvas being
placed between the worm and the leather. They are usually made from six to eight feet long,
with a copper strainer screwed on the farther end, to prevent as much as possible any mud or
dirt from getting into the engine with the water. It is of advantage to carry four lengths
of suction-pipe, as they can be joined to reach the water; if one is damaged the others will
still be serviceable.

The suction-pipes are more troublesome to rivet than the common hose, and are done in the following
manner:--After the joints are fixed on the spiral worm, and it is covered with the tarred canvas,
an iron mandrel longer than the worm is put through it, the edge being rounded to the circle
of the inside of the worm. The projecting ends of the mandrel are supported to allow the worm
to lie quite clear. One end of the mandrel has a check, that the brass joint may not prevent
the worm from lying flat on the mandrel. The leather is then put over the worm, and the rivets
being put into one side, a small thin mandrel is laid over the canvas and the rivets struck
down upon it. If the small mandrel be not used the heads of the rivets are apt to lie unequally
on the worm.

Three Wrenches for Coupling-joints.--These are for tightening the coupling-joints, when that
cannot be sufficiently done by hand. When the hose are all put together a man is sent along
the whole line with a pair of wrenches to tighten such of the coupling-joints as require it.
The wrenches are generally made with a hole to fit the knob on the coupling-joint, and, when
used, are placed, one on the nob of the male and another on the nob of the female-screw, so
as to pull them in opposite directions.

Two Branch Pipes.--These are taper copper tubes, having a female-screw at one end to fit the
coupling-joints of the hose, and a male-screw at the other to receive the jet pipes, one is
4 feet long to use from the outside of a house on fire, the other 12 inches for inside work.

Three Jet-pipes or nozzles of various sizes made to screw on the end of the branch pipe.

A great many different shapes of jet have been tried, and that shown in Fig. 5, I found to
answer best when tried with other forms. The old jet was a continuation in a straight line
of the taper of the branch, from the size of the hose-screw, to the end of the jet-pipe; this
had many inconveniences; the size of the jet could not be increased without making the jet-pipe
nearly parallel. As the branches were sometimes 7 feet or 8 feet long, in some instances the
orifice at the end of the jet-pipe was larger than that at the end of the branch. The present
form of the jet completely obviates this difficulty, as the end of the branch is always 1-1/2
inches diameter.

The curve of the nozzle of the present jet is determined by its own size; five times one-half
of the difference between the jet to be made and the end of the branch, is set up on each side
of the diameter of the upper end of the branch, a straight line is then drawn across, and an
arc of a circle described on this line, from the extremity of each end of the diameter of the
jet, until it meets the top of the branch; the jet is then continued parallel, the length of
its own diameter; the metal is continued one-eighth of an inch above this, to allow of a hollow
being turned out to protect the edge: The rule for determining the size of the jet for inside
work is, to "make the diameter of the jet one-eighth of an inch for every inch in the diameter
of the cylinder, for each 8 inches of stroke." The branch used in this case is the same size
as shown in Fig. 5. When it is necessary to throw the water to a greater height, or distance,
a jet one-seventh less in area is used, with a branch from 4 feet to 5 feet long.

Two Lengths of Scaling Ladders.--These are 6-1/2 feet long, and are fitted with sockets so
that any number up to 7 or 8 may be joined together to form one ladder varying in length according
to circumstances from 6-1/2 to upwards of 40 feet.

One Fire-hook.--This is similar to a common boat-hook, of such length as may be most convenient
to strap on the handles of the engine. It is used for pulling down ceilings, and taking out
deafening-boards when the fire happens to be between the ceiling and the floor above. It is
also used when a strong door is to be broken open. It is placed with the point upon the door,
one or two men bearing upon it, while another striking the door, the whole force of the blows
is made to fall upon the lock or other fastening, which generally yields without much difficulty.

Sixty Feet of Patent Line and Twenty Feet of Trace Line.--These are generally used for hoisting
the hose into the windows of the house, in which there is a fire, the stairs being sometimes
so crowded with people and furniture, that it is difficult to force a passage, and when the
pipe is laid in the stair, it is liable to be damaged by people treading on it.

One Mattock and Shovel.--These are useful in damming any running water or gutter, uncovering
drains, &c., from which the engine may be supplied with water. The mattock should be short
and strong, and the shovel of the sort called diamond-pointed.

One Hatchet.--The most serviceable hatchet for a fire-engine, is similar to that used as a
felling axe by wood-cutters. The back part is made large that it may be conveniently used as
a hammer.

One Saw.--This should be a stout cross-cut saw, very widely set. It is useful in cutting off
the communication between one house and another, which, when water is scarce, is sometimes
necessary.

One Iron Crow-bar.--This should be about two feet long. It is used in opening doors, breaking
through walls, &c.

One Portable Cistern.[P]--This is made of canvas on a folding iron frame, and is used in London
placed over the street-fire plugs, a hole is left in the bottom through which the water enters
and fills the cistern, the escape between the canvas and the plug box being trifling. Two and
sometimes three engines are worked by suction-pipe from one plug in this manner. The portable
cistern is also used when the engine is supplied by suction, from water conveyed in carts or
buckets, and is greatly preferable to any plan of emptying the water directly into the engine.
By this latter method there is always a considerable waste of water, arising both from the
height of the engine, and the working of the handles; and, in addition to these objections
only one person can pour in water at a time. When the water is poured into the engine from
carts, it must stop working till the cart is emptied. All these objections, are in a great
measure removed by placing the portable cistern clear of the engine; when used in this manner
there must of course be no hole in the bottom.

One Flat Suction Strainer, made to screw on to the suction pipe, to prevent anything being
drawn in that would not pass through the jet-pipe, and made flat, with no holes in the upper
surface, for use in the portable cistern.

One Standcock, with stem to insert direct in the fire-plug, and used principally with hose
to throw a jet for cooling ruins.

One Canvas Sheet.--This, when stretched out and held securely by several men, may be jumped
into from the window of a house on fire with comparative safety.

One Hand-pump, as described at page 130, and used with the canvas buckets.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote G: The engines and their crews are distinguished by these colours.]

[Footnote H: The hose are made up in flat coils, with the male coupling-screw in the centre,
and the female on the outside. When a length is to be laid out in any direction, it is set
on its edge, and then run out in the required direction,--in this way no turns or twists can
ever occur. When the hose is to be taken up, it is uncoupled, and then wound up, beginning
at the end farthest from the engine or from the fire-cock (as the case may be): by this method
all the water is pressed out.]

[Footnote I: In practising this exercise the men are in the habit of descending by the chains
from the parapet of the North Bridge, Edinburgh, to the ground below: a height of 75 feet.]

[Footnote J: Mr. Braidwood used canvas jumping sheets on this principle with hand holes for
a dozen men, in the ordinary service of the London Fire Brigade.]

[Footnote K: Now Shand, Mason, and Co.]

[Footnote L: This description applies to the most recently constructed fire-engines belonging
to the Metropolitan Fire Brigade.]

[Footnote M: "Stuffing," a technical term need by leather-dressers or curriers.]

[Footnote N: The proportions are, 1 gallon neats-foot oil, 2 lbs. tallow, 1/4 lb. bees-wax,
melted together, and laid while warm on the leather.]

[Footnote O: This description of the Edinburgh coupling-joints was written in 1830, and is
inserted here to show how the present form of the well-known London Brigade hose-coupling was
arrived at. The internal diameter was originally 2-3/8 inches, but Mr. Braidwood, when in London,
found that he could increase it to 2-1/2 inches.]

[Footnote P: See engraving of portable cistern, page 156.]

FIRE ANNIHILATOR

With regard to the Fire Annihilator, I have seen several experiments with this machine, and
heard of more which were not successful; and if an invention fails when experiments are tried,
it is open to the impression that it might fail when brought into active operation. There have
also been many cases where these machines have met with accidents, one at Drury Lane Theatre
amongst the number.

Water, properly applied, will do whatever the Annihilator can accomplish, and also many things
which the latter cannot do. As it is, there are some forty or fifty different articles to carry
with each fire-engine, and to add to them such unwieldy things as Fire Annihilators, would
be to encumber the men more than they are at present, with a very doubtful prospect of advantage.

WATER SUPPLY.

The supply of water is the most vital part of any exertions towards extinguishing fire. Where
the pressure is sufficient, and the mains large enough, by far the most efficient and economical
mode of using the water is to attach the hose directly to the mains.

In London, however, this can rarely be done, for several reasons. The greatest number of plugs
are on the service pipes, that is, the pipes for supplying water for domestic and other purposes,
which are only open a short time every day. If the cisterns are nearly empty, the pressure
cannot be obtained till they are filled. Then, again, the plugs being some distance apart,
it is difficult to obtain a sufficient number of jets. But when the plugs are full open 1-3/4
diameter, a sufficient quantity of water is obtained from each to supply three engines, each
of which will give a jet equal to the plug if confined to one jet. The pressure also in the
mains in London seldom exceeds 120 feet at the utmost. For these reasons the pressure from
the mains is seldom used till the fire is checked, when the ruins are cooled by the "dummies,"
as the jets from the mains are named by the firemen.

If water can be obtained at an elevation, pipes with plugs or firecocks on them, are preferable
to any other mode at present in use for the supply of fire-engines. The size of the pipes will
depend on the distance and elevation of the head, and also on the size of the buildings to
be protected. It may be assumed as a general rule, that the intensity of a fire depends, in
a great measure, on the cubic content of the building; distinction being made as to the nature
and contents of such building. If no natural elevation of water can be made available, and
the premises are of much value, it may be found advisable to erect elevated tanks; where this
is done, the quantity of water to be kept ready, and the rate at which it is delivered, must
depend on the means possessed of making use of the water.

The average size of fire-engines may be taken at two cylinders of 7 inches diameter, with a
length of stroke of 8 inches, making forty strokes each per minute. This sized engine will
throw 141 tons of water in six hours, and allowing one-fourth for waste, 176 tons would be
a fair provision in the tanks for six hours' work; this quantity multiplied by the number of
engines within reach, will give an idea of what is likely to be required at a large fire. If,
however, there are steam-engines to keep up the supply through the mains, the quantity of water
kept in readiness may be reduced to two hours' consumption, as it is likely that the steam-engines
would be at work before that quantity was exhausted. This is what may be supposed to be required,
in cases of serious fires in dockyards, in large stacks of warehouses, or in large manufactories.

Where water can be had at nearly the level of the premises, such as from rivers, canals, &c.,
if it is not thought prudent to erect elevated tanks, the water may be conducted under the
surface by large cast-iron pipes, with openings at such distances as may seem advisable for
introducing the suction-pipes (Fig. 6). This plan should not be adopted where the level of
the water is more than 12 feet below the surface of the ground, as although a fire-engine will,
if perfectly tight, draw from a much greater depth than 14 feet (2 feet being allowed for the
height of the engine), still a very trifling leakage will render it useless for the time, at
such a depth.

The worst mode of supplying engines with water is by covered sunk tanks; they are generally
too small, and unless very numerous, confine the engines to one or two particular spots, obliging
the firemen to increase the length of the hose which materially diminishes the effect of the
fire-engine. If the tank is supplied by mains from a reservoir, it would be much better to
save the expense of the tank, and to place plugs or firecocks on the water-pipe. Another evil
in sunk tanks is, that the firemen can seldom guess what quantity of water they may depend
upon, and they may thus be induced to attempt to stop a fire, at a point they would not have
thought of if they had known correctly the quantity of water in store.

Where sunk tanks are already constructed, they may be rendered more available by a partial
use of the method shown in Fig. 6.

Memoranda of Experiments tried on the mains and service pipes of the Southwark Water Company,
between 4 and 9 A.M. of the 31st January, 1844. The wind blowing fresh from N.N.W.

The pressure at the water-works at Battersea was kept at 120 feet during the experiments, and
every service pipe or other outlet was kept shut.

1st Experiment.--Six standcocks, with one length of 2-1/2 inches riveted leather hose 40 feet
long, and one copper branch 4 feet to 5 feet long, with a jet 7/8 inch in diameter on each,
were placed in six plugs on a main 7 inches diameter, in Union-street, between High-Street,
Borough, and Gravel-lane, Southwark, at distances of about 120 yards apart. The water was brought
from the head at Battersea, by 4250 yards of iron pipes 20 inches diameter, 550 yards of 15
inches diameter, and 500 yards of 9 inches diameter.

1st. One standcock was opened, which gave a jet of 50 feet in height, and delivered 100 gallons
per minute.

With four lengths of hose the jet was 40 feet high, and the delivery 92 gallons per minute.
When the branch and jet were taken off with one length of hose the delivery was 260 gallons
per minute.

2nd. The second standcock was then opened, and the jet from the first was 45 feet high.

3rd. The third standcock was opened, and the jet from the first 40 feet high.

4th. The fourth standcock being opened, the first gave a jet of 35 feet high.

5th. The fifth being opened, the first gave a jet of 30 feet high.

6th. All the six being opened, the first gave a jet of 27 feet in height.

2nd Experiment.--Six standcocks were then put into plugs, on a main 9 inches diameter in Tooley-Street,
the extreme distance being 450 yards, with hose and jets as in the first experiment. The weather
was nearly the same, but the place of experiment was more protected from the wind than in Union-street.

1st. With one standcock open, a jet 60 feet in height was produced, and 107 gallons per minute
were delivered.

2nd. The second standcock was then opened, and the difference in the first jet was barely perceptible.

3rd. Other two standcocks being opened, the first jet was reduced to 45 feet in height, and
the delivery to 92 gallons per minute.

4th. All the six standcocks being opened, the first jet was further reduced to 40 feet high,
and the delivery to 76 gallons per minute.

3rd Experiment.--Two standcocks, with hose, &c., as in the first experiment, were then put
into a service-pipe, 4 inches diameter and 200 yards long, in Tooley-street, the service-pipe
was connected with 200 yards of main 5 inches diameter, branching from the main of 9 inches
diameter. The weather was still the same as at first, but the wind did not appear to affect
the jets, owing to the buildings all round being so much higher than the jet.

1st. The standcock nearest the larger main was opened, and a jet of 40 feet high was produced,
delivering 82 gallons per minute.

2nd. Both standcocks being opened, the first gave a jet of 31 feet, and delivered 68 gallons
per minute.

3rd. The standcock farthest from the large main only being opened, gave a jet of 34 feet, and
delivered 74 gallons per minute.

4th. Both standcocks being opened, the farthest one gave a jet of 23 feet, and delivered 58
gallons per minute.

When both these plugs were allowed to flow freely without hose, the water from that nearest
the large main, rose about 18 inches, and the farther one about 1 inch above the plug-box.

These and other experiments prove the necessity of placing the plugs on the mains, and not
on the service pipes, where there are mains in the street.

The different modes of obtaining water from the mains or pipes are shown in the accompanying
drawings.

(Fig. 7) is a section of a common plug when not in use.

(Fig. 8) is a section of the common plug, with a canvas dam or cistern over it, as used in
London. The cistern is made of No. 1 canvas, 15 inches deep, extended at top and bottom by
5/8-inch round iron frames, a double stay is hinged on the top frame at each end. When the
cistern is used the top frame is lifted up, and the stays put into the notches, in two pieces
of hoop iron, fixed to the bottom frame. There is a circular opening 9 inches diameter in the
canvas bottom, two circular rings of wash-leather, about 2 inches broad, are attached to the
edges of the opening in the canvas, so as to contract it to 4 inches or 5 inches diameter;
the plug being opened, the cistern is placed over it; the wash-leather is pressed down to the
surface of the road by the water, and a tolerably water-tight cistern, with about 12 inches
or 14 inches of water in it, is immediately obtained.

(Fig. 9) is a plug with a standcock in it, to which hose may be attached.

(Fig. 10) is a common single firecock with a round water-way 2-1/2 inches diameter.

(Fig. 11) is a double firecock, as laid down in Her Majesty's Dockyards.

It will be observed, that the short piece of pipe between the main and this firecock is not
curved to the current of the water, but merely opened a little; this is done with a view of
increasing the supply by steam power, and as the steam engines are, in most cases, situated
in a different direction from the tanks or reservoirs, therefore the curve that would have
assisted the current in one direction would have retarded it in the other. It has been objected
to these firecocks, that the opening does not run through the centre of the key, therefore
only one side of the key covers the opening in the barrel, while in the common firecock both
sides are covered.

(Fig. 12) is a double firecock, as laid down at the British Museum.

This has a very good delivery, and is certain to be always tight, if well made, as the pressure
of the water forces the key into the barrel; this also renders the cock somewhat difficult
to be opened and shut, if the pressure be great; but as a lever of any length may be used,
and the key, from its perpendicular position, may be loosened by a blow, this objection is
in a great measure obviated.

In Figs. 10 and 11 the openings in the street are large enough to admit of the levers for opening
the cock to be fixed, that no mistake may occur from the lever being mislaid; but with those
at the British Museum, it was not thought necessary to have fixed levers, as a crow-bar, or
anything that could be introduced into the eye of the spanner, would open them.

The plug and firecock have both certain advantages and disadvantages, which are now described.

The plug, with a canvas cistern, is the easiest mode of obtaining water; the plug-box being
only the size of a paving-stone, is no annoyance in the street, and the water has only one
angle to turn before it is delivered.

On the other hand, where the supply of water is limited, the plugs give but little command
of it; there is, however, comparatively very small loss at a large fire in London from this
cause, as it is very seldom that all the fire-engines can be supplied direct from the plugs,
and those that arrive late must pick up the waste water as they best can, by using another
description of canvas dam, or opening the street; but in enclosed premises, especially where
the water is kept for the purpose of extinguishing fires, firecocks are much to be preferred.
It is very difficult to insert the standcock into a plug if there is a considerable force of
water, and if the paving has moved, it cannot be done without raising the plug-box; but this
is, however, the easiest mode of using firecocks, and where there is a considerable pressure
of water, if the watchmen or the police are supplied with a hose-reel and branch-pipe, they
can, in enclosed premises, direct a jet on the fire while the engines are being prepared, and
if they cannot reach the fire, they will have water ready for the engine when it arrives.

Inclosed premises are particularly mentioned, because the principal duty of the watchmen, in
these cases, is to guard against fire, and their other duties being comparatively few, the
men are not often changed, and they can be instructed thoroughly in the matter. With the general
police of the metropolis it is quite different, their duties are so numerous and varied, that
to add that of firemen to them would only be to confuse them.

Firecocks, if kept at 9 inches to 12 inches below the surface, are easily protected from frost,
by stuffing the opening with straw.

The advantage which the double firecocks have over the single ones, is merely the increased
water-way, as a firecock 3-1/2 inches diameter could not be so easily opened or shut, as two
cocks of 2-1/2 inches diameter.

One of the greatest objections to firecocks, is the very large openings required in the streets,
the first cost and the repair of which are both considerable, besides their liability to accident.
To take them to the footpath, increases the expenses and diminishes the supply of water, as
it is generally done with a small pipe, and the number of angles is increased. In some instances,
where firecocks have been put down on one side of the street, no less than four right angles
have been made in the course of the water; and if the fire happens to be on the opposite side
of the street from the firecock, the thoroughfare must be stopped. The expense also is no slight
consideration, for if laid along with the water-pipes, each firecock, if properly laid, and
the pit built round with cement, will cost eight or ten times as much as a plug.

London is, upon the whole (except in the warehouse districts), fairly supplied with water for
the average description of fires, that is, where not more than five or six engines are required.
When, however, it is necessary to work ten or twelve engines, there is very often a deficiency.
In many of the warehouse districts the supply is very limited indeed, although it is there
that the largest fires take place.

The water companies are generally willing to give any quantity of water, but they object to
lay down large mains without any prospect of remuneration. The warehouse keepers decline to
be at the expense of laying the pipes, and there the matter seems to rest. In most other places
of importance, the water is under the management of the civic authorities, and they, of course,
endeavour to obtain a good supply of water at fires in warehouse as well as in other districts.

In supplying fire-engines with water from firecocks, one or more lengths of hose are screwed
on the firecock; the extreme end being put into the engine, the firecock is then opened and
the water rushes in. When the water-pipes are large and the pressure considerable, two or even
three engines may be supplied from the same firecock.

If the firecocks are all at too great a distance from the place on fire, to be reached by the
supply of hose brought with the engine, the next resource is, to open the nearest firecock
above the level of the place where the water is required. By covering the eyes of drains, and
stopping up any cross-water channels, the water may in this manner be conveyed along the street,
from a very considerable distance. From the nature of the ground it does not always happen
that the water will run directly from the nearest firecock, to the spot where it is required;
acclivities, buildings, and many other causes, may prevent this; but in some of these cases
a few lengths of the hose, attached to the firecock, may convey the water to a channel which
will conduct it to the required point. Upon the arrival of the water, it ought to be dammed
up, and the engine will lift it by suction out of the pool so formed.

If, however, from the nature of the ground, from the want of hose, or from other causes, it
is found impracticable to convey the water by either of the above methods, the next best is,
to conduct the water in hose as far as can be accomplished, and carry it the remainder of the
distance in carts, buckets, or whatever else may be most convenient.

When carried in buckets it is of advantage to form a line of men from the water to the engine,
each man covering five or six feet of ground. The buckets are then handed from one man to another,
till they reach the two or three men who are stationed round the suction-tub or fire-engine
to receive them. The buckets when emptied are returned by a different line of men (women or
boys) stationed in the same manner as the former. If a sufficient number of hands cannot be
had to return the buckets in this manner, any convenient number may be employed to carry them
to the firecock, that they may be again filled. When a fire occurs where the water-pipes are
unprovided with firecocks or plugs, the ground should be immediately opened, and the water-pipe
cut. If it be of cast-iron, a large hammer may effect the purpose: on the water-pipe being
broken, the suction-pipe of the engine is placed in the opening so made. If the pipe be of
lead, the opening in the street should be made of sufficient length to admit of one end of
it, when cut, being turned into the engine. If the supply of water by this means be so great
as to occasion waste, it may be regulated by the nearest stopcock on the water-pipe, by driving
a wooden plug into the end of a cast-iron pipe, or compressing the end of a leaden one.

The next plan I shall notice of supplying fire-engines is from drains, gutters, &c. In particular
situations and wet weather considerable supplies of water from these and similar sources may
be obtained. In the gutters all that is required is to dam them up; and, if there be no materials
at hand for this purpose, the causeway must be dug up, till there is a sufficient depth of
water for the suction-pipe of the engine.

When the water is to be drawn from drains or common sewers, great care should be taken not
to damage them farther than is absolutely necessary.

If enough of cover be taken off to allow one man to enter easily, it will be quite sufficient
for all necessary purposes. When the man inside the drain or common sewer has collected a proper
supply of water by damming up the channel, the suction-pipe should be handed down to him, and
the engine set to work.

Although it be true that foul water quenches fire, I will here observe, that the water from
a common sewer should never be used, except when it is impossible to procure it from a purer
source. For the purpose of procuring water to extinguish a fire, I had at one time occasion
to open a common sewer, in which, with the usual impurities, the waste from a gas manufactory
was intermixed, and the stench in the premises where the fire had been extinguished by this
water, was for some time after very disagreeable.

If the water be obtained from a pond or river at a little distance, one engine may be stationed
close to it, and that engine made to pump the water into another at work. If the water be conveyed
in carts, an engine may be kept at the pond or river for the purpose of filling them. Of course
this can only be done where there is a proper supply of engines.

In working from an open water, such as a gutter, drain, river, or pond, it is proper, in order
to prevent sand or gravel being drawn into the engine, to sink an iron or wooden bucket, into
which the suction-pipe of the engine should be placed. If nothing better can be had, a good
wicker basket will be found useful.

It is of great advantage to have a number of carts, with butts upon them full of water, as
it ensures a small supply to the engines the moment they arrive at the fire. This plan, however,
entails a very considerable expense, as carters must be paid for taking them out on every alarm,
besides giving prizes to the owners of the first and second horses, to ensure their coming in time.

APPENDIX.

The following, on Steam Fire-engines and the Metropolitan Fire Brigade, is added as a supplement
to Mr. Braidwood's account of the London Fire Brigade, and brings the information upon these
subjects up to the present date (May, 1866):--

The steam fire-engine was first constructed in London, in 1830, before the formation of the
London Fire Brigade, by Braithwaite, who made several engines, and exhibited them at various
public trials, also at several fires, but without being able to bring them into general use.

The matter remained in abeyance till 1852, when the London Fire Brigade caused their large
hand-worked floating fire-engine to be altered so as to be worked by steam. This engine having
been originally made by Tilley, of London, the alterations were entrusted to Shand and Mason,
his successors. In the same year the first American steam fire-engine was constructed in New York.

In 1855 the London Fire Brigade, stimulated by their first experiment, caused an entirely new
self-propelling, floating steam fire-engine to be constructed. The experience gained by their
first attempt at steam fire-engine making, enabled Shand and Mason to compete successfully
in this matter, as their design was adopted after receiving the approval of the late Mr. Walker,
Engineer, of Great George Street, London.

The re-introduction of land steam fire-engines into London was accomplished by Shand and Mason,
who, in 1858, constructed their first; this engine, after several public trials, was in the
same year sent to St. Petersburgh.

In 1859 the same firm constructed two land steam fire-engines, which they offered to the London
Fire Brigade for hire or purchase, and in the following year (1860) the Fire Brigade took one
on hire for one year. This experiment proved so successful, that in 1861 the committee purchased,
from Shand and Mason, the fourth steam engine of their construction. This, with one of the
two made in 1859, were the only land steam engines that were at work at the Great Tooley Street
Fire of 1861.

In the beginning of 1862, Mr. Lee, of the firm of Lee and Larned, of New York, brought over
a land steam fire-engine to be placed in the International Exhibition. This was worked in public
at Hodges' Distillery on the 24th of March previous to the opening of the Exhibition.

Shand and Mason supplied the London Fire Brigade in April, 1862, with the eighth land steam
fire-engine of their construction. Messrs. Merryweather and Sons, of London, placed their first
land steam fire-engine in the International Exhibition of 1862, but this, like the ninth by
Shand and Mason, was not in time for the opening, and consequently could not compete for a
prize medal, which was awarded to Lee and Larned, of New York.

A public trial, however, took place before the jury of the Exhibition, of which the following
is an account extracted verbatim from the jurors' published reports:--

INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1862.

SPECIAL JURY FOR FIRE-ENGINES.

J. F. BATEMAN, F.R.S., London; Civil Engineer.

CAPT. BENT, London; Superintendent of Fire Arrangements in the Exhibition.

W. M. BROWN, London; Superintendent of Westminster Fire Brigade.

EARL OF CAITHNESS, London.

J. HAWKSHAW, London; Civil Engineer.

C. JENNY, Austria; Councillor of Mines in the Imperial Royal Academy of Mines at Schemnitz.

P. LUUYT, France; Engineer to the Imperial Commissioners of Mines.

J. E. McCONNELL, Wolverton; late Locomotive Superintendent of the London and North Western Railway.

O. PIHL, Norway; Civil Engineer.

W. M. RANKINE, Glasgow; Professor of Mechanics in the University of Glasgow.

CAPT. SHAW, London; Superintendent of the London Fire Brigade.

DUKE OF SUTHERLAND, London.

F. B. TAYLOR, United States; Mechanical Engineer.

H. THOMAS, Zollverein; Manufacturer.

H. TRESCA, France; Professor of Mechanics, President of the French Institute of Civil Engineers.

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF CLASS VIII. ON FIRE-ENGINES.

After detailing the Trials of Hand-worked Fire-Engines, the Report states that,--

The Committee next proceeded to take the necessary steps for trying the steam fire-engines
on the 1st of July, and, as before, invited the engine builders to a preliminary meeting, that
they might receive full information as to the rules and regulations to be observed.

In compliance with this invitation, the following engine-makers attended a meeting on the 28th
of June, viz:--

     Mr. Lee, of the firm of Lee and Larned, Novelty Iron-works,
     New York.

     Messrs. Merryweather and Son.

     Messrs. Shand and Mason.

Mr. Lee declined to produce his steam fire-engine for trial, alleging various reasons for so
doing, and though strongly urged, persisted in his resolution, and declined the contest.

Messrs. Merryweather and Son expressed themselves ready to produce their steam fire-engine
on the appointed day.

Messrs. Shand and Mason informed the Committee that the engine which they had intended to work
would not be ready owing to an accident, but requested permission to produce for trial two
steam-engines made by them for the London Fire-Engine Establishment, although they were not
in the Exhibition. All the arrangements having been made for trying several engines together,
the Committee granted this request, as otherwise only one engine would have been present, and
a complete table of results could therefore not have been obtained.

The Committee assembled in the appointed place at eight o'clock on the morning of the 1st of
July, and found three engines present, viz., one of Messrs. Merryweather and Son and two of
Messrs. Shand and Mason.

After the Committee had examined the boilers and machinery generally, the engine-makers filled
their respective boilers with cold water from the river, and fires having been laid, the three
were lighted at the same moment, and the makers were ordered to commence working into a tank
at sixty feet distance as soon as they had attained a steam pressure of 100 lbs. to the square
inch.

Messrs. Merryweather's engine attained the pressure named in 12 minutes 10 seconds, Messrs.
Shand and Mason's large engine in 18 minutes 30 seconds, the small engine in about 30 minutes,
some mismanagement having occurred which compelled them to draw the fire in the latter and
light it a second time. Messrs. Merryweather's engine commenced working as arranged when the
steam-gauge indicated a pressure of 100 lbs., and was 2 minutes and 50 seconds at work before
water passed through the nose-pipe. Notwithstanding this very serious defect, this engine had
poured 500 gallons of water into a tank 60 feet distant in 17 minutes and 15 seconds from the
time at which the fire was lighted. After the difficulty of drawing the water had been surmounted,
this engine worked well, and threw an admirable jet, losing 15 lbs. steam-pressure during the
first trial. After three trials this engine became disabled; it was, however, repaired on the
ground in about an hour and a half, and resumed work at the ninth trial, continuing to work
well until the thirteenth, when it became again disabled, and was withdrawn by the maker, to
the great regret of the Committee, who were thus left to continue the experiments with only
two engines, both made by one firm.

This engine was severely tested, and worked without accident throughout the day, the seventeenth
trial lasting no less than 63 minutes, during which the steam and water were both kept to a
pressure of 90 lbs. on the square inch throughout, working through a 1-3/8 inch nose-pipe.

At the eighteenth and last trial this engine threw a good vertical jet.

Messrs. Shand and Mason's small engine did not raise the steam to 100 lbs. in less than 30
minutes, owing, of course, partly to the mismanagement already mentioned, and partly to the
nature of the boiler and fire-box, which, according to the makers' account, are not adapted
for raising steam in the shortest possible time. After the engine got to work the steam-pressure
was well sustained, and the engine continued working the entire day without accident, concluding
in the evening by throwing a good vertical jet.

During the time occupied by the trials the direction of the wind was W.N.W. to W. by N., pressure
2-1/2 to 4-1/2 lbs. on the square foot. The barometer stood at 29.97 inches.

Summary.

On the whole the Committee find as follows:--

Messrs. Merryweather and Son have produced, at a price of 700l., a steam fire-engine, weighing,
according to the makers' account, 65 cwt., with jets and lamps, but without water, coal, suction-pipes,
hose, or other gear, and capable, if no accidents occur, of throwing in an available stream
the following average quantities of water per minute:--

     Distance.     Angle.     Quantity.

     61 feet.       10°       230 gallons.
     85   "         21°       124    "
      63   "        18°       165    "
      82   "        14°       172    "
      85   "        21°       137    "
     102   "        11°        94    "
     104   "        17°        19    "

Messrs. Shand and Mason have also produced, at a price of 370l., an engine which, under the
same conditions, weighs 35 cwt., and is capable of throwing in an available stream the following
average quantities per minute:--

     Distance.     Angle.     Quantity.

     61 feet.       10°       142 gallons.
     63   "         18°       133    "
     82   "         14°        56    "
     85   "         21°        27    "

The best performance during the five trials from which this last average was taken being forty-six
gallons, and the lowest five gallons per minute.

At greater distances, in consequence of the wind, this engine could not deliver a stream, but
continued working without accident throughout the day, and concluded in the evening by throwing
a good vertical jet.

                    SUTHERLAND, CHAIRMAN.
                    E. M. SHAW, HON. SEC.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shand and Mason's tenth land steam fire-engine was supplied to the London Brigade in June,
1862, and their twelfth, in February, 1863, upon orders given on the 4th January, 1862. But
as the Committee of the London Fire Brigade were now negotiating with Government to take the
duty of extinguishing fires off their hands, no orders for steam-engines were given out by
them after the above date.

       *       *       *       *       *

STEAM FIRE-ENGINE COMPETITION,

CRYSTAL PALACE, LONDON, 1863.

Towards the close of 1862, several engineers and other gentlemen interested in the improvement
of steam fire-engines, offered prizes to be awarded at competitive trials to take place in
London. The following is the Committee's published account of these trials which were held
in the grounds of the Crystal Palace Company on the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd July, 1863.

The Committee consisted of the following gentlemen, viz.:--

Chairman.

HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND.

Members.

THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF CAITHNESS. LORD RICHARD GROSVENOR, M.P. J. G. APPOLD, ESQ. J. T.
BATEMAN, ESQ. W. M'BROWNE, ESQ. T. R. CRAMPTON, ESQ. W. M. CROSSLAND, ESQ. W. FAIRBAIRN, ESQ.
T. HAWKSLEY, ESQ. J. E. McCONNELL, ESQ. HENRY MAUDSLAY, ESQ. J. MATHEWS, ESQ. J. NASMYTH, ESQ.
J. PENN, ESQ. WILLIAM SMITH, ESQ.

Hon. Sec.

CAPTAIN E. M. SHAW.

The engines were divided into two classes, the large class consisting of those weighing over
30 cwts., and not exceeding 60 cwts. and the small class of those not exceeding 30 cwts.

The prizes offered were 250l. for the best engine, and 100l. for the second best, in each class.

The chief points to which the Committee directed their attention, in addition to the consideration
of cost and weight, were those relating to the general efficiency of the machines as fire-engines,
combining among other points of excellence--

  Rapidity in raising and generating steam.

  Facility of drawing water.

  Volume thrown.

  Distance to which it can be projected with the least amount of loss.

  Simplicity, accessibility, and durability of parts.

LARGE CLASS.

FIRST TRIAL.

Delivering 1000 gallons into a tank at a true distance of 67 feet, and 27° from the horizon.
Depth from which water was drawn, 4 feet 6 inches. The water in the boiler being cold when
the signal was given to commence, each engine commencing to work on attaining steam pressure
of 100lb. to the square inch.

+---+-----------------+--------------+----------+---------+--------+ |   |                
|              | Time of  | Time of |        | |No.|     MAKER.      |    Weight.   | raising
| filling | Total  | |   |                 |              | Steam to | Tank.   | Time.  | |
|                 |              | 100lbs.  |         |        | +---+-----------------+--------------+----------+---------+--------+
|   |                 | T. c. q. lbs.|  '   "   |  '   "  |  '   " | | 1 | Easton & Amos, 
| 2 18  3   12 | 13  14   |  6  16  | 19  30 | |   |   London        |              |     
|         |        | |   |                 |              |          |         |        | |
2 | Merryweather &  | 2 18  0    8 | 10  25   |  9  42  | 20   7 | |   |   Son, London   |
|          |         |        | |   |                 |              |          |         |
| | 3 | Shand & Mason,  | 2 17  1    0 | 10  51   | 12  19  | 23  10 | |   |   London     
|              |          |         |        | |   |                 |              |     
|         |        | | 4 | Butt  and  Co., | 2 14  0    4 | 16  30   |  6  48  | 23  18 | |
|   United States |              |          |         |        | |   |                 |  
|          |         |        | | 5 | Roberts, London | 1 19  1    4 | 11  40   | 20  24  |
32  4  | |   |                 |              |          |         |        | |   |       
|              |                             | |   | Nichols         | 2 10  1    4 | Did not
work.               | |   |   (Manhattan)   |              |                             |
|   |   United States |              |                             | |   |                
|              |                             | |   | Gray & Son,     | 1 18  1    4 | Did not
work.               | |   |   London        |              |                             |
+---+-----------------+--------------+----------+---------+--------+

MERRYWEATHER AND SON began to work at 100 lbs., fell directly to 40 lbs., and continued so
throughout; stopped and steam rose to 130 lbs.

SHAND AND MASON--Suction-pipe choked; left off working about 2 minutes.

SECOND TRIAL.

Delivering 1000 gallons into tank at same distance commencing with full steam.

+-----+--------------------+------------+--------+---------+
|     |                    | Steam at   | Steam  | Time of |
| No. |       NAME.        | Beginning. | during | filling |
|     |                    |            | Work.  |  Tank.  |
+-----+--------------------+------------+--------+---------+
|     |                    |            |        |  '    " |
|  1  | Shand & Mason      |    100     |        |  3    0 |
|     |                    |            |        |         |
|  2  | Butt & Co.         |    100     |        |  3    3 |
|     |                    |            |        |         |
|  3  | Merryweather & Son |    145     |        |  3    7 |
|     |                    |            |        |         |
|  4  | Roberts            |     80     |        | 12   30 |
+-----+--------------------+------------+--------+---------+
                Roberts did not fill the tank.

THIRD TRIAL.

Delivering into large tank at a horizontal distance of 40 feet, a vertical height of 40 feet,
a true distance of 56 feet, and at an angle of 45 degrees from the horizon, the depth from
which water was drawn being 16 feet 4 inches.

Key: A--No. of Deliveries Open. B--Length of Hose. C--Average Steam Pressure. D--Average Water
Pressure. E--No. of Gallons Delivered.

+-----+-----------+---------+---+---+--------+----+----+-------+-------+ |   |            
|         |   |   |Size of |    |    |       |Time of| |No.| Name.       | Time.   | A | B
|Nozzle. | C  | D  |   E   |Raising| |   |             |         |   |   |        |    |  
|       |Steam. | +---+-------------+---------+---+---+--------+----+----+-------+-------+
|   |             |hr. m. s.|   |   |        |    |    |       |       | | 1 | Merryweather|
1 24 55 | 2 |440| 1-1/2  | 91 | 89 |16,086 |10' 32"| |   | & Son       |         |   |   |
|    |    |       |  to   | |   |             |         |   |   |        |    |    |      
| 80lbs.| |   |             |         |   |   |        |    |    |       |       | | 2 | Shand
| 2  0  0 | 2 |440| 1-1/2 &| 96 | 62 |12,917 |11' 21"| |   | & Mason     |         |   |  
| 1-3/8  |    |    |       |   to  | |   |             |         |   |   |        |    |  
|       |120lbs.| |   |             |         |   |   |        |    |    |       |       |
| 3 | Roberts     | 2  0  0 | 1 |420| 1-1/4  | 75 | 75 | 9,936 |11' 20"| |   |            
|         |   |   |        |    |    |       |   to  | |   |             |         |   |  
|        |    |    |       | 80lbs.| |   |             |         |   |   |        |    |  
|       |       | | 4 | Butt & Co.  | 0 46 50 | 2 |440| 1-1/2  | 78 | 78 | 8,280 |14' 10"|
|   |             |         |   |   |        |    |    |       |   to  | |   |            
|         |   |   |        |    |    |       | 45lbs.| |   |             |         |   |  
|        |    |    |       |       | | 5 | Easton &    | 1 32 35 | 2 |440| 1-3/8  | 98 | 41
| 3,036 |12' 30"| |   | & Amos      |         |   |   |        |    |    |       |   to  |
|   |             |         |   |   |        |    |    |       | 90lbs.| |   |            
|         |   |   |        |    |    |       |       | | 6 | Nichols     | 0  4 55 | 2 |420|
1-1/2  | -- | -- | None. |13' 09"| |   | (Manhattan) |         |   |   |        |    |    |
|   to  | |   |             |         |   |   |        |    |    |       | 45lbs.| +---+-------------+---------+---+---+--------+----+----+-------+-------+

MERRYWEATHER AND SON--Fire lighted at 4h. 1m. 55s.; gauge moved at 4h. 8m. 20s.; engine started
at 4h. 12m. 27s.; water drawn in about 10 revolutions; pumps not primed, valve box leaked slightly,
and engine worked satisfactorily in every respect.

SHAND AND MASON--Fire lighted at 11h. 25m. 46s.; gauge moved at 11h. 32m. 53s.; engine started
at 11h. 37m. 7s.; pump primed at 11h. 45m. 48s.; drew water at 11h. 47m.; water first through
the nozzle at 11h. 48m. 59s.; in hood at 11h. 49m. 19s.; shifted nozzle (3-1/4m. delay); high wind.

ROBERTS--Fire lighted at 11h. 17m.; engine, started at 11h. 28m. 20s.

BUTT AND CO.--Fire lighted at 5h. 55m. 10s.; started engine at 6h. 9m. 20s.; repeatedly stopped
from slide valves not acting, and stopped entirely at 6h. 46m., from cylinder cover breaking.

EASTON AND AMOS--Fire lighted at 2h. 2m. 35s.; gauge moved 2h. 10m.; started engine at 2h.
15m. 5s.; pumps primed, worked till 2h. 54m. 5s.; stopped to shift plungers; went to work again,
and stopped entirely at 3h. 35m. 10s., from two fire bars falling out.

NICHOLS (Manhattan)--Fire lighted at 10h. 51m. 14s.; gauge moved at 10h. 59m. 20s.; drew water
directly; steam up to 140lbs. at 11h. 8m. 45s.; stopped two minutes; started again; made a
few revolutions, and fly-wheel broke.

FOURTH TRIAL

Vertical Jet against Tower.

+-----+--------------------+---------+-----------------+ | No. |       Name.        |  Size
| Greatest Height | |     |                    | of Jet. |     Thrown.     | +-----+--------------------+---------+-----------------+
|  1  | Shand & Mason      |  22/16  |     180 ft.     | |     |                    |     
|                 | |  2  | Merryweather & Son |  26/16  |     180 ft.     | |     |      
|         |                 | |  3  | Roberts            |  14/16  |     150 ft.     | |  
|                    |         |                 | |  4  | Lee & Co           |  21/16  | 
55 ft.     | +-----+--------------------+---------+-----------------+

GRAY'S engine lighted fire at 7h. 7m. 40s.; steam 9lbs. at 7h. 17m. 0s.; got to work at 7h.
23m. 40s. to blow fires; at 7h. 27m. 0s. water through hose. Owing to some of the pipe connected
with the steam gauge breaking, no further experiments could be made. Depth from which water
was drawn, 4ft. 6in.

+---+---------------+---------------+-----------+---------+--------+
|   |               |               | Time of   | Time of |        |
|No.|     Name.         |     at     | during | filling |
|     |                    | Beginning. | Work.  |  Tank.  |
+-----+--------------------+------------+--------+---------+
|     |                    |            |        |  '  "   |
| 1   | Shand & Mason      |     85     |   --   |  5 49   |
|     |                    |            |        |         |
| 2   | Lee & Co.          |    125     |   --   |  5 50   |
|     |                    |            |        |         |
| 3   | Merryweather & Son |    100     |   --   |  6 17   |
+---------------------------------------+--------+---------+
     The leakage in Lee and Co's. engine was remedied.

THIRD TRIAL.

Delivering into large tank, commencing with Full Steam. At a horizontal distance of 40ft.,
a vertical height of 40ft., a true distance of 56ft., and at an angle of 45° from the horizon;
the depth from which water was drawn being 16ft. 4in.

Key A--Number of Deliveries open. +--------------+---+---------+---+--------+---------+-----+----+------+
|              |   |         |   | Length | Size of |     |    |      | |     Name.    |No.|
Time.  | A |   of   | Nozzle. |  B  | C  |  D   | |              |   |         |   |  Hose.
|         |     |    |      | +--------------+---+---------+---+--------+---------+-----+----+------+
|              |   | h. m. s.|   |        |   in.   |     |    |      | | Shand &      | 1
| 1  0  0 | 1 |   420  |   1 &   | 146 | 80 | 8142 | |   Mason      |   |         |   |   
|  1-1/4  |     |    |      | |              |   |         |   |        |         |     | 
|      | | Merryweather | 2 | 1  0  0 | 1 |   420  |   7/8   |  86 | 45 | 4885 | |   & Son
|   |         |   |        |         |     |    |      | |              |   |         |   |
|         |     |    |      | | Lee & Co.    | 3 | 1  0  0 | 1 |   420  |   3/4   |  80 | 60
| 4278 | |              |   |         |   |        |         |     |    |      | +--------------+---+---------+---+--------+---------+-----+----+------+

SHAND AND MASON--Steam ready at 150 lbs.; started at 7h. 3m. 32s.; stopped at 7h. 12m. 5s.
to put on an additional length of hose; worked well throughout.

MERRYWEATHER AND SON--Steam ready at 110 lbs.; commenced work at 3h. 43m. 30s.; pumps primed.

LEE AND CO.--Steam ready, started at 2h. 1m. 0s.; worked well, without any stoppage.

AWARDS.

At a meeting of the Committee held on the 8th July, 1863, his Grace the Duke of Sutherland
in the Chair, the following prizes were awarded:--

LARGE CLASS.

Messrs. Merryweather & Sons,      1st Prize, 250l. Messrs. Shand & Mason             2nd Prize,
100l. Mr. W. Roberts, highly commended.

SMALL CLASS.

Messrs. Shand & Mason             1st Prize, 250l. Messrs. W. Lee & Co.              2nd Prize,
100l.

(Signed) On behalf of the Committee,

                    SUTHERLAND, CHAIRMAN.
                    E. M. SHAW, HON. SEC.

From the above trials it was found that the first prize large-class engine weighed 6504 lbs.,
and delivered in one hour 11,366 gallons, being at the rate of 196 gallons for each hundred-weight
of the engine; while the first prize small-class engine delivered in the same time 8142 gallons,
or 276 for each hundred-weight of the engine, showing that the latter engine delivered nearly
one-half more water in proportion to its weight, than was delivered by the large one, the conditions
of the two trials being the same.

As the greatest amount of power in the smallest possible bulk and weight, was considered most
available for use at London fires, the Committee of the London Fire Brigade, although not in
a position, for the reasons already stated, to purchase additional steam fire-engines, commenced
hiring Shand, Mason, and Co.'s prize engines, and at the close of 1865 had four such in use
in this manner.

The Metropolitan Fire Brigade, an extension of the late London Fire Brigade, has now (May,
1866) the following steam fire-engines in use:--The Floating Steam Fire-engine, by Shand and
Mason, in 1855; a Land Steam Fire-engine by Easton and Amos, which was worked at the Crystal
Palace trials, and is now used in a barge as a floating engine; one by Roberts, which was also
worked at the Crystal Palace; three by Merryweather and Sons; and fifteen of Shand, Mason,
and Co.'s Land Steam Fire-engines.

METROPOLITAN FIRE BRIGADE.

The disastrous results of the great fire at Tooley-street, in 1861, at which Mr. Braidwood
lost his life, fully demonstrated the inadequacy (in men and appliances) of the fire brigade
supported by the insurance offices, and as these bodies declined extending their establishment
so as to meet the wants of the whole of the metropolis, a Parliamentary inquiry was instituted,
which resulted in the passing of the following Act:--

     ANNO VICESIMO OCTAVO & VICESIMO NONO

     VICTORIÆ REGINÆ.

     CAP. XC.

     An Act for the Establishment of a Fire Brigade within the
     Metropolis.

     1. This Act may be cited for all purposes as the
     "Metropolitan Fire Brigade Act, 1865."

     2. For the purposes of this Act the "Metropolis" shall mean
     the City of London and all other parishes and places for
     the time being within the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan
     Board of Works:

     "Insurance Company" shall include any persons corporate or
     unincorporate, or any person carrying on the business of
     fire insurance.

     3. The expression "Metropolis Local Management Acts" shall
     mean the Acts following; that is to say, "The Metropolis
     Management Act, 1855," "The Metropolis Management Amendment
     Act, 1856," and "The Metropolis Management Amendment Act,
     1862."

     Establishment and Duties of Fire Brigade.

     4. On and after the first day of January one thousand
     eight hundred and sixty-six the duty of extinguishing fires
     and protecting life and property in case of fire shall
     within the metropolis be deemed for the purposes of this Act
     to be entrusted to the Metropolitan Board of Works; and with
     a view to the performance of that duty it shall be lawful
     for them to provide and maintain an efficient force of
     firemen, and to furnish them with all such fire engines,
     horses, accoutrements, tools, and implements as may be
     necessary for the complete equipment of the force, or
     conducive to the efficient performance of their duties.

     5. The said Board, hereinafter referred to as the Board, may
     take on lease, purchase, or otherwise acquire stations for
     engines, stables, houses for firemen, and such other houses,
     buildings, or land as they may think requisite for carrying
     into effect the purposes of this Act, and may from time to
     time sell any property acquired by or vested in them for the
     purposes of this Act:

     The Board may also contract with any company or persons
     authorized to establish the same for the establishment of
     telegraphic communication between the several stations in
     which their fire engines or firemen are placed, and between
     any of such stations and other parts of the metropolis.

     6. On and after the said first day of January one thousand
     eight hundred and sixty-six, all stations, fire-engines,
     fire escapes, plant, and other property belonging to or used
     by the fire engine establishment of the insurance companies
     in the metropolis shall vest in or be conveyed or assigned
     to the Board for all the estate and interest of the said
     companies therein, upon trust to be applied by the Board to
     the purposes of this Act, but subject to all legal
     liabilities and obligations attaching thereto, including the
     payment of all pensions that have been granted to the
     members of the said Fire Engine Establishment, according to
     a list that has been furnished to the chairman of the said
     Board by the chief officer of the said fire-engine
     establishment, and all trustees for the same shall be
     indemnified against such liabilities and obligations. The
     Board may also, if they think fit, purchase the stations,
     fire-engines, and plant belonging to any parish, place, or
     body of persons within their jurisdiction.

     7. The force of firemen established under this Act,
     hereinafter called the Metropolitan Fire Brigade, shall be
     under the command of an officer, to be called the chief
     officer of the Metropolitan Fire Brigade.

     The chief officer and men composing the said fire brigade
     shall be appointed and removed at the pleasure of the Board.

     8. The Board shall pay such salaries as they think expedient
     to the said fire brigade. They may also make such
     regulations as they think fit with respect to the
     compensation to be made to them in case of accident, or to
     their wives or families in case of their death; also with
     respect to the pensions or allowances to be paid to them in
     case of retirement; also with respect to the gratuities to
     be paid to persons giving notices of fires; also with
     respect to gratuities by way of a gross sum or annual
     payment to be from time to time awarded to any member of the
     said force, or to any other person, for extraordinary
     services performed in cases of fire; also with respect to
     gratuities to turncocks belonging to waterworks from which a
     supply of water is quickly derived.

     9. The Board may by byelaws make regulations for the
     training, discipline, and good conduct of the men belonging
     to the said fire brigade, for their speedy attendance with
     engines, fire escapes, and all necessary implements on the
     occasion of any alarm of fire, and generally for the
     maintenance in a due state of efficiency of the said
     brigade, and may annex to any breach of such regulations
     penalties not exceeding in amount forty shillings, but no
     byelaw under this section shall be of any validity unless it
     is made and confirmed in manner directed by the Metropolis
     Local Management Acts; and all the provisions of the said
     Acts relating to byelaws shall, with the necessary
     variations, apply to any byelaws made in pursuance of this
     Act.

     10. The vestry of any parish or place in the metropolis may
     allow such compensation as they think just to any engine
     keeper or other person employed in the service of fire
     engines who has hitherto been paid out of any rate raiseable
     in such parish or place, and who is deprived of his
     employment by or in consequence of the passing of this Act,
     and any compensation so allowed shall be paid out of the
     rate out of which the salary of the officer so compensated
     was payable.

     11. The Board may make such arrangements as they think fit
     as to establishing fire escapes throughout the metropolis.
     They may for that purpose contribute to the funds of the
     Royal Society for the Protection of Life from Fire, or of
     any existing society that provides fire escapes, or may
     purchase or take by agreement the property of any existing
     society in their stations and fire escapes, and generally
     may maintain such fire escapes and do such things as they
     think expedient towards aiding persons to escape from fire;
     and any expenses incurred by them in pursuance of this
     section shall be deemed to be expenses incurred in carrying
     into effect this Act.

     12. On the occasion of a fire, the chief or other officer in
     charge of the fire brigade may, in his discretion, take the
     command of any volunteer fire brigade or other persons who
     voluntarily place their services at his disposal, and may
     remove, or order any fireman to remove, any persons who
     interfere by their presence with the operations of the fire
     brigade, and generally he may take any measures that appear
     expedient for the protection of life and property, with
     power by himself or his men to break into or through, or
     take possession of, or pull down any premises for the
     purpose of putting an end to a fire, doing as little damage
     as possible; he may also on any such occasion cause the
     water to be shut off from the mains and pipes of any
     district, in order to give a greater supply and pressure of
     water in the district in which the fire has occurred; and no
     water company shall be liable to any penalty or claim by
     reason of any interruption of the supply of water occasioned
     only by compliance with the provisions of this section.

     All police constables shall be authorized to aid the fire
     brigade in the execution of their duties. They may close any
     street in or near which a fire is burning, and they may of
     their own motion, or on the request of the chief or other
     officer of the fire brigade, remove any persons who
     interfere by their presence with the operations of the fire
     brigade.

     Any damage occasioned by the fire brigade in the due
     execution of their duties shall be deemed to be damage by
     fire within the meaning of any policy of insurance against
     fire.

     Expenses.

     13. Every insurance company that insures from fire any
     property in the metropolis shall pay annually to the
     Metropolitan Board of Works, by way of contribution toward
     the expenses of carrying this Act into effect, a sum after
     the rate of thirty-five pounds in the one million pounds on
     the gross amounts insured by it, except by way of
     reassurance, in respect of property in the metropolis for a
     year, and at a like rate for any fractional part of a
     million, and for any fractional part of a year as well as
     for any number of years for which the insurance may be made,
     renewed, or continued.

     The said payments by insurance companies shall be made
     quarterly in advance, on the 1st of January, 1st of April,
     1st of July, and 1st of October in every year; the first of
     such payments to be made on the 1st of January one thousand
     eight hundred and sixty-six, and such first payment and the
     other payments for the year one thousand eight hundred and
     sixty-six to be based upon the amounts insured by the
     several companies in respect of property in the metropolis
     in the year ending the twenty-fourth of December one
     thousand eight hundred and sixty-four: provided that any
     insurance company which at the time of the passing of this
     Act contributes to the expenses of the said fire engine
     establishment may, in respect of all payments to be made by
     it in the years one thousand eight hundred and sixty-six and
     one thousand eight hundred and sixty-seven, but not
     afterwards, contribute after the yearly rate of thirty-five
     pounds in one million pounds of the business in respect of
     which it contributes to the said fire engine establishment
     for the present year, according to a return which has been
     furnished to the chairman of the said Metropolitan Board,
     instead of in the manner in this Act provided.

     14. All contributions due from an insurance company to the
     Board in pursuance of this Act shall be deemed to be
     specialty debts due from the company to the Board, and be
     recovered accordingly.

     15. For the purpose of ascertaining the amount to be
     contributed by every such insurance company as aforesaid,
     every insurance company insuring property from fire in the
     metropolis shall, on the thirtieth day of December one
     thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, with respect to the
     amounts insured in the year one thousand eight hundred and
     sixty-four, and on the 1st of June one thousand eight
     hundred and sixty-six, and on every succeeding 1st of June,
     or on such other days as the Metropolitan Board of Works may
     appoint, make a return to the said Board, in such form as
     they may require, of the gross amount insured by it in
     respect of property in the metropolis.

     There shall be annexed to the return so made a declaration
     made by the secretary or other officer performing the duties
     of secretary of the company by whom it is made, stating that
     he has examined the return with the books of the company,
     and that to the best of his knowledge, information, and
     belief, it contains a true and faithful account of the gross
     amount of the sums insured by the company to which he
     belongs in respect of property in the metropolis.

     The return made in the June of one year shall not come into
     effect till the 1st of January of the succeeding year, and
     shall be the basis of the contributions for that year.

     16. If any insurance company makes default in making such
     returns to the Board as are required by this Act, it shall
     be liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds for every
     day during which it is so in default.

     17. The secretary or other officer having the custody of the
     books and papers of any insurance company that is required
     to pay a contribution to the Board in pursuance of this Act
     shall allow any officer appointed by the Board to inspect,
     during the hours of business, any books and papers that will
     enable him to ascertain the amount of property insured by
     such company in the metropolis, and the amount for which it
     is insured, and to make extracts from such books or papers;
     and any secretary or other such officer as aforesaid of a
     company failing to comply with the requisitions of this
     section in respect of such inspections and extracts shall be
     liable on summary conviction to a penalty not exceeding five
     pounds for each offence.

     18. The Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury shall pay or
     cause to be paid to the Board by way of contribution to the
     expenses of maintaining the fire brigade such sums as
     Parliament may from time to time grant for that purpose, not
     exceeding in any one year the sum of ten thousand pounds.

     19. For the purpose of defraying all expenses that may be
     incurred by the Board in carrying into effect this Act which
     are not otherwise provided for, the Board may from time to
     time issue their precepts to the overseers of the poor of
     every parish or place within the metropolis, requiring the
     overseers to pay over the amount mentioned in the precepts
     to the Treasurer of the Board, or into a bank to be named in
     the precepts, within forty days from the delivery of the
     precept.

     The overseers shall comply with the requisitions of any such
     precept by paying the sums mentioned out of any monies in
     their hands applicable to the relief of the poor, or by
     levying the amount required as part of the rate for the
     relief of the poor, but no contribution required to be paid
     by any parish or place under this section shall exceed in
     the whole in any one year the rate of one halfpenny in the
     pound on the full and fair annual value of property rateable
     to the relief of the poor within the said parish or place,
     such full and fair annual value to be computed in all parts
     of the metropolis, exclusive of the city of London,
     according to the last valuation for the time being acted on
     in assessing the county rate, or, where there is no county
     rate, according to a like estimate or basis; and no liberty,
     precinct, or place, shall be exempt from the rate leviable
     for the purposes of this Act by reason of its being
     extra-parochial or otherwise; and in default of proper
     officers in any liberty, precinct, or place, to assess or
     levy the said rate, the Board may appoint such officers, and
     add the amount of any expenses so incurred to the amount to
     be raised by the next succeeding rate in such liberty,
     precinct, or place.

     Overseers shall, for the purposes of levying any amount
     required to be levied by them under this Act, have the same
     powers and be subject to the same obligations as in levying
     a rate for the relief of the poor.

     The word "Overseers" shall include any persons or bodies of
     persons authorized or required to make and collect or cause
     to be collected rates applicable to the relief of the poor;
     and such persons or bodies shall pay to the Board the amount
     so mentioned in the precept out of the said rates.

     20. In case the amount ordered by any such precept as
     aforesaid to be paid by the overseers of any parish or place
     be not paid in manner directed by such precept and within
     the time therein specified for that purpose, it shall be
     lawful for any justice of the peace, upon the complaint by
     the Board or by any person authorized by the Board, to issue
     his warrant for levying the amount or so much thereof as may
     be in arrear by distress and sale of the goods of all or any
     of the said overseers, and in case the goods of all the
     overseers be not sufficient to pay the same, the arrears
     thereof shall be added to the amount of the next levy which
     is directed to be made in such parish or place for the
     purposes of this Act, and shall be collected by the like
     methods.

     21. The Board may, with the consent of the Commissioners of
     Her Majesty's Treasury, borrow any sum not exceeding forty
     thousand pounds, and apply the same for the purposes of this
     Act; and all powers contained in the Metropolis Local
     Management Acts authorizing the Board to borrow money, or
     any commissioners or persons to lend money to the Board, and
     all other provisions as to the mode of borrowing, the
     repayment of principal or interest, or in anywise relating
     to borrowing by the Board, shall be deemed to apply and to
     extend to this Act in the same manner as if the monies
     borrowed in pursuance of this Act were monies borrowed for
     the purpose of defraying the expenses of the Metropolis
     Local Management Acts, or one or more of those acts. The
     Board shall apply the monies received by them under this Act
     in liquidation of the principal and interest of the monies
     so borrowed, but no creditor shall be concerned to see to
     such application, or be liable for any misapplication of the
     monies received or borrowed by the Board in pursuance of
     this Act.

     MISCELLANEOUS.

     22. Where any chief officer, or other person who has been
     employed by the Board in any capacity under this Act, and
     has been discharged therefrom, continues to occupy any house
     or building that may be provided for his use, or any part
     thereof, after one week's notice in writing from the Board
     to deliver up possession thereof, it shall be lawful for any
     police magistrate, on the oath of one witness, stating such
     notice to have been given, by warrant under his hand to
     order any constable to enter into the house or building
     occupied by such discharged chief officer or other person as
     aforesaid, and to remove him and his family and servants
     therefrom, and afterwards to deliver the possession thereof
     to the Board, as effectually, to all intents and purposes,
     as the sheriff having jurisdiction within the place where
     such house or building is situate might lawfully do by
     virtue of a writ of possession or a judgment at law.

     23. If the chimney of any house or other building within the
     metropolis is on fire, the occupier of such house or
     building shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding twenty
     shillings; but if such occupier proves that he has incurred
     such penalty by reason of the neglect or wilful default of
     any other person, he may recover summarily from such person
     the whole or any part of the penalty he may have incurred as
     occupier.

     24. All penalties imposed by this Act, or by any byelaw made
     in pursuance thereof, and all expenses and other sums due to
     the Board in pursuance of this Act, in respect of which no
     mode of recovery is prescribed, may be recovered summarily
     before two justices in manner directed by the Act of the
     session holden in the eleventh and twelfth years of the
     reign of her present Majesty, chapter forty-three, or any
     Act amending the same, and when so recovered shall be paid
     to the treasurer of the Board, notwithstanding any police
     act or other act of parliament directing a different
     appropriation of such monies.

     25.

     26. Any act, power, or jurisdiction hereby authorized to be
     done or exercised by two justices may be done or exercised
     by the following magistrates within their respective
     jurisdictions; that is to say, by any metropolitan police
     magistrate sitting alone at a police court or other
     appointed place, or by the Lord Mayor of the City of London,
     or any alderman of the said City, sitting alone or with
     others at the Mansion House or Guildhall.

     27. The accounts of the Board in respect of expenses
     incurred by them under this Act shall be audited in the same
     manner as if they were expenses incurred under the said
     Metropolis Local Management Acts, and the Board shall in
     each year make a report to one of her Majesty's principal
     Secretaries of State of all acts done and expenditure
     incurred by them in pursuance of this Act, and that report
     shall be laid before Parliament within one month after the
     commencement of the session.

     28. The Board may delegate any powers conferred on them by
     this Act to a committee of their body; and such committee
     shall, to the extent to which such powers are delegated, be
     deemed to be the Board within the meaning of this Act.

     29. If the companies insuring property within the
     metropolis, or any such number of them as may in the opinion
     of the said Board be sufficient, establish a force of men
     charged with the duty of attending at fires and saving
     insured property, it shall be the duty of the Fire Brigade,
     with the sanction of the Board, and subject to any
     regulations that may be made by the Board, to afford the
     necessary assistance to that force in the performance of
     their duties, and, upon the application of any officer of
     that force, to hand over to their custody property that may
     be saved from fire; and no charge shall be made by the said
     Board for the services thus rendered by the fire brigade.

     30. It shall be lawful for the Board, when occasion
     requires, to permit any part of the fire brigade
     establishment, with their engines, escapes, and other
     implements, to proceed beyond the limits of the metropolis
     for the purpose of extinguishing fires. In such case the
     owner and occupier of the property where the fire has
     occurred shall be jointly and severally liable to defray all
     the expenses that may be incurred by the Fire Brigade in
     attending the fire, and shall pay to the Board a reasonable
     charge for the attendance of the Fire Brigade, and the use
     of their engines, escapes, and other implements. In case of
     difference between the Board and the owner and occupier of
     such property, or either of them, the amount of the
     expenses, as well as the propriety of the Fire Brigade
     attending such fire (if the propriety thereof be disputed),
     shall be summarily determined by two justices. In default of
     payment, any expenses under this section may be recovered by
     the Board in a summary manner.

     The Board may also permit any part of the Fire Brigade
     Establishment to be employed on special services upon such
     terms of remuneration as the said Board may think just.

     31. The Metropolitan Fire Brigade shall in the morning of
     each day, with the exception of Sundays, send information,
     by post or otherwise, to all the insurance offices
     contributing for the purposes of this Act, of all fires
     which have taken place within the metropolis since the
     preceding return, in such form as may be agreed upon between
     the Board and the said companies.

     32. All the powers now exercised by any local body or
     officer within the metropolis as respects fireplugs shall
     henceforth be exercised by the Board, and the Board shall be
     entitled to receive copies or extracts of all plans kept by
     any water company under the provision of the Act of the
     session of the fifteenth and sixteenth years of her Majesty,
     chapter eighty-four; and every such water company shall
     provide at the expense of the Board in any mains or pipes
     within the metropolis plugs for the supply of water in case
     of fire at such places, of such dimensions, and in such form
     as the Board may require, and the Fire Brigade shall be at
     liberty to make such use thereof as they may deem necessary
     for the purpose of extinguishing any fire; and every such
     company shall deposit keys of all their fireplugs at such
     places as may be appointed by the Board, and the Board may
     put up on any house or building a public notice in some
     conspicuous place in each street in which a fireplug is
     situated, showing its situation.

     33. "Owner" in this Act shall mean the person for the time
     being receiving the rackrent of the premises in connexion
     with which the word is used, either on his own account or as
     agent or trustee for some other person, or who would receive
     the same if the premises were let at rackrent.

     Repeal.

     34. On and after the first day of January, one thousand
     eight hundred and sixty-six, there shall be repealed so much
     as is unrepealed of an Act passed in the fourteenth year of
     his late Majesty King George the Third, chapter
     seventy-eight, and intituled an Act for the further and
     better regulation of buildings and party walls, and for the
     more effectually preventing mischief by fire, within the
     Cities of London and Westminster and the liberties thereof,
     and other the parishes, precincts, and places within the
     weekly bills of mortality, the parishes of St. Marylebone,
     Paddington, St. Pancras, and St. Luke, at Chelsea, in the
     County of Middlesex, and for indemnifying, under certain
     conditions, builders and other persons against the penalties
     to which they are or may be liable for erecting buildings
     within the limits aforesaid contrary to law, with the
     exception of sections eighty-three and eighty-six which
     shall remain in full force, but such repeal shall not affect
     any penalty or liability incurred under the repealed
     sections.

     35. On and after the first day of January, one thousand
     eight hundred and sixty-six, section forty-four of an Act
     passed in the session holden in the third and fourth years
     of the reign of King William the Fourth, chapter ninety,
     shall be repealed so far as respects any parish or place
     within the limits of the metropolis as defined by this Act;
     provided that the repeal of the said section shall not
     affect the power of the churchwardens and overseers of any
     parish or place to contribute to the funds of any society
     that at the time of the passing of this Act maintains fire
     escapes in such parish or place, unless and until the Board
     purchase the property of such society, or otherwise provide
     fire escapes in such parish or place.

       *       *       *       *       *

In accordance with the provisions of the above recited Act of Parliament, the London Fire Brigade
of the Insurance Offices is now being extended to meet the requirements of the whole of London,
under the title of the Metropolitan Fire Brigade, with Captain E. M. Shaw, Mr. Braidwood's
successor, as chief officer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Variations in spelling, hyphenation, capitalization, and punctuation have been retained from
the original book. The Table of Contents and List of Illustrations do not exactly match the
chapter, section, and illustration titles in the text.

The following changes have been made:

Page 70: Missing word "of" added (avail themselves of the means).

Page 183: Typo estalishment changed to establishment (establishment of telegraphic communication).

Tables in the Appendix have been modified in format, but not in content, to fit the plain-text
spacing constraints.

