PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 150

MARCH 15, 1916.

CHARIVARIA.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Zeppelin which was "winged" while flying over Kent last week has not yet been found, and
is believed to be still in hiding in the densely wooded country between Maidstone and Ashford.
Confirmation of this report is supplied by a local farmer, who states that on three successive
nights the cat's supper has been stolen from his scullery steps. This strange circumstance,
considered in the light of the Germans' inordinate passion for cats' meat, has gone far to
satisfy the authorities that the capture of the crippled monster is only a question of time.

       ***

Mr. WILLIAM AIRD, in a lecture upon "Health, Disease and Economical Living," insisted that
we should all be much healthier if we lived on "rabbit food." Possibly; but the vital question
is--would not this diet induce in us a tendency to become conscientious objectors?

       ***

"It is most necessary," stated a Manchester economics expert last week, "that the Government
should release more beef for civilian needs." Yet a cursory view of the work done by the military
tribunals seems to indicate that they are releasing altogether too much.

       ***

A Chertsey pig-breeder has been granted total exemption. The pen, it seems, is still mightier
than the sword.

       ***

Some slight irritation has been caused by the announcement of Sir ALFRED KEOGH that Naval men
engaged on the home service cannot be supplied with false teeth at the expense of the Government.
Nevertheless we may rest assured that, come what may, these gallant fellows will uphold the
traditions of the Navy and stick to their gums.

       ***

For many days past the condition of our streets has been really lamentable owing to the fact
that so many of our crossing-sweepers are serving with the colours; and a painful report is
going about that the Government's object in recognizing the V. T. C. is at last becoming apparent.

       ***

A prehistoric elephant has recently been discovered at Chatham and is now mounted in the British
Museum. In palæontological circles the report that the monster's death was occasioned by the
consumption of too much seed-cake is regarded as going far to prove that our neolithic ancestors
were not without their sentimental side.

       ***

       ***

From a Parliamentary report: "In his reply Mr. Asquith stated that the 'Peace Book' which was
being prepared to meet problems which would arise after the War corresponded with the 'War
Book' which was compiled years ago in anticipation of the War." This ought to put heart into
the enemy.

       ***

The Court of Appeal has decided that infants are liable to pay income tax. It is reported that
Sir JOHN SIMON is preparing a stinging remonstrance.

       ***

The Turkish New Year has been officially postponed so as to begin on March 14th, instead of
on March 1st, as before. This simple but satisfactory method of prolonging the existence of
a moribund empire has proved so successful that ENVER PASHA and a number of other Young Turks
have indefinitely postponed their next birthdays.

       ***

Up to the moment of writing there has been no confirmation of the report that Turkey has given
her consent to the making of a separate peace by Germany on account of the economic exhaustion
of the latter country.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from letter to The Westminster Gazette:--

    "'M.D.' cannot have studied dietetics, or he would know that far
    greater strength and endurance are produced by a fruit and herb
    diet than by what is termed a 'mixed diet,' e.g., the elephant,
    the horse and the gorilla."

In the circumstances it is fortunate that the scarcity of gorillas puts them out of the reach
of all but millionaire gourmets.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

"HORSE MARINE."--You say you are intrigued about The Evening News poster, which announced

    "ASQUITH ON A MORATORIUM,"

and you are curious to know more about this animal. We have pleasure in informing you that
it is distantly related to the megatherium, and, since the extinction of the latter, has been
very generally used for hack purposes. The PREMIER may be seen any morning in the Park taking
a canter on one of these superb mammals.

"WINSTONIAN."--The rumour that Colonel the late First Lord of the Admiralty has offered himself
the command of a mine-sweeper or, alternatively, of a platoon in the 1/100 battalion of the
Chilterns, lacks confirmation.

"PEER OF THE REALM."--We agree with you in regretting that Lord FISHER was unable to accept
Lord BERESFORD'S invitation to come and hear him speak in your House about the Downing Street
sandwichmen and other collateral subjects arising out of the Air Service debate. You will be
glad however to know that Lord FISHER'S absence was not due to indisposition, but to a previous
engagement to take tea on the Terrace with Mr. BALFOUR.

"A LOVER OF THE ANTIQUE."--Your idea of making a collection of antebellum fetishes is a happy
one. Examples of the Little Navy and Voluntary System fetishes are now rather rare, but you
should have no difficulty in securing a well-preserved specimen of the Free Trade fetish at
the old emporium of antiquities kept by the firm of John Simon and Co.

"A SINGLE MAN."--When you say that you are forty years old, that you have practically built
up a business which will be ruined if you leave it, that you are the sole support of a stepmother
and a family of young half-brothers and sisters, but that you have felt it your duty to attest
without appealing for exemption, we applaud your patriotism. But, when you go on to complain
that your neighbour, aged twenty-two, living in idleness on an allowance, and married to a
chorus-girl still in her teens and childless, should be free to decline service if he chooses
(as he does), we cannot but disapprove of your irreverent and almost immoral attitude towards
the holy condition of matrimony. If the tie of wedlock is not to take precedence of every other
tie, including that of country, where are we?

"A CRY FROM MACEDONIA."--In answer to your question as to when we think it likely that the
KAISER will take advantage of his recently-conferred commission in the Bulgarian Army and lead
his regiment against Salonika, we are unable to fix a date for this movement. Our private information
is that he is detained elsewhere by a previous engagement which is taking up more time than
was anticipated.

"BULGAR."--We sympathise with you in your natural desire to have your TSAR FERDINAND home again,
and we share your sanguine belief that the tonic air of Sofia (never more bracing than at the
present moment) ought speedily to cure him of his malignant catarrh. His Austrian physicians
however advise him to remain away, and he himself holds the view, coloured a little by superstition,
that his return should be at least postponed till after the Ides of March, a day that was fatal
to the health of an earlier Cæsar.

"YOUNG TURK."--Your anxiety about ENVER PASHA is groundless. The news that he has been recently
seen at the PROPHET'S Tomb at Medina conveyed no indication that the object of his visit was
to select a neighbouring site for his own burial. Indeed, our information is that since his
recent assassination (as reported from Athens) he has been going on quite as well as could
be expected.

O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

BUILDING WITHOUT TEARS.

The enthralling correspondence in the columns of our contemporary, The Spectator, on the subject
of cheap cottages and how to build them, has evoked a vast amount of correspondence addressed
directly to us. We select a few specimens which are recommended by their practical and businesslike
character:--

The Merits of "Posh."

DEAR SIR,--The question of Land Settlement after the War resolves itself in the last resort
into the employment of cheaper methods of cottage building. Will you allow me to put in a word
for the revival, in the neighbourhood of the sea, of the old Suffolk plan of building with
what is locally known as "posh," after the name of the original inventor, who was an ancestor
of FITZGERALD'S friend. "Posh" is a mixture of old boots--of which a practically unlimited
supply can be found on the beaches of seaside resorts--and seaweed, boiled into a jelly, allowed
to solidify, and then frozen hard in cold storage. "Posh" is not only (1) impenetrable but
also (2) hygienic, the iodine in the seaweed lending it a peculiarly antiseptic quality, and
(3) picturesque, the colour of the compound being a dark purple, which is exceedingly pleasing
to the eye. Lastly, the cost of production is slight, as the raw material can be obtained for
nothing, and the compound can be sawn into blocks or bricks to suit the taste of the tenant.
I am convinced that cottages of "posh" could be built for less than a hundred pounds a-piece;
and at that figure cheap housing becomes a practical proposition.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully,

Decimus Dexter.

"Stooting" and "Marmash."

DEAR SIR,--The choice of material matters little so long as it is properly treated. Any sort
of earth will do, or, failing earth, a mixture of ashes with a little mustard and marmalade,
the waste of which in most households is prodigious. But it must be properly pounded and allowed
to set in a frame. For the former process there is no better implement than the old Gloucestershire
stoot, or stooting-mallot, or in the alternative a disused niblick. The earth, or the "marmash"
mixture, as I have christened it, should be poured into a bantle-frame--which can be made by
any village carpenter--and vigorously pounded for about three hours. Then another bantle-frame
is placed on the first, and the process is repeated. No foundation is required for walls erected
by the plan of stooting, but a damp-course of mulpin is advisable, and it is always best to
pingle the door-jambs, and binge up the rafters with a crumping-block.

I am, Sir, yours obediently,

Mungo Stallibrass.

The Beauty of "Bap."

DEAR SIR,--When I was an under-graduate at Balliol more years ago than I care to remember,
I not only took part in the road-making experiment carried out under RUSKIN's supervision,
but assisted in the erection of a model cottage, the walls of which were made of "bap," a compound
which is still used in parts of Worcestershire. The receipt is very simple. You mix clinkers,
wampum and spelf in equal quantities and condense the compound by hydraulic pressure. I have
a well-trained hydraulic ram who is capable of condensing enough "bap" in twenty-four hours
to provide the materials for building six four-roomed cottages. I am sorry to say that the
"bap" cottage at Hinksey was washed away by a flood a few years ago, and the spot where it
stood is no longer identifiable. But the facts are as I have stated them.

Truly yours, Roland Phibson.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE JUNIOR PARTNERS.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE FRONT.

I wonder if the chap who first thought out this shell business realized the extraordinary inconvenience
it would cause to gentlemen at rest during what the Photographic Press alludes to as "a lull
in the fighting."

Once upon a time billets were billets. You came into such, and thereafter for a spell of days
forgot about the War unless you got an odd shell into the kitchen. But now--well, about noon
on the first day's rest, seventy odd batteries of our 12, 16, and 24 inch guns set about their
daily task of touching up a selected target, say a sap-head or something new from Unter den
Linden in spring barbed-wirings which has been puzzling a patrol. This is all right in its
way; but the Hun still owns one or two guns opposite us. And by 12.5 all is unquiet on the
Western Front. This is all right in its way; but about 3 P.M. the Hun is roused to the depths
of his savage nature, and one wakes up to find Hildebrand and Hoffelbuster, the two guns told
off to attend to our liberty area, scattering missiles far and wide, but mostly wide, and a
covey of aeroplanes bombing the local cabbageries. This again is all right in its way, but
in the meantime the mutual noise further up the line has become so loud that Someone very far
back and high up catches the echo of it, and a bare hour later we receive the order to stand-to
at once, ready to move off twenty minutes ago.

Within three minutes of our first stand-to I was up with the company, hastily but adequately
mobilized with my servant's rifle, five smoke helmets, (I took all I could see; this is camaraderie),
a biscuit, the Indispensable Military Pocket Book (8 in. by 10 in.), a revolver (disqualified
for military uses owing to absence of ammunition), Russian Picture Tales, and a tooth-brush.
I find a general opinion prevalent in the company that "if Fritz knew we was standing-to 'e'd
pack in." Word must have come through to Fritz somehow, for he shortly packs in--say about
1 A.M.--and we follow suit after the news has spent a couple or hours or so flashing round
the wires in search of us. And we go to sleep until to-morrow midday, when the day's play begins
again.

When we had been thus "rested" for some days we went and took over a nice new line, with lots
of funny bits in it. The front line had three bits.

Left sector--Mine (exploded; possibly held by Bosch on far side).

Central sector--Mine? (unexploded; not held by Bosch anywhere).

Right sector--Mine (exploded; possibly held by Bosch on far side).

Our position seemed a little problematical. The left and right we satisfied ourselves about
at once, but the centre was in a class by itself. We demanded an investigator, somebody with
wide mine-sweeping experience preferred.

About 2 A.M. on our first day in, a figure loomed up through a snow-storm from the back of
the central trench and asked forlornly if there might be any mines hereabouts. We admitted
there might be, or again there might not. He questioned us precisely where it was suspected,
and we told him "underneath." He scratched his head and announced that he was sent to look
for it. His qualifications consisted apparently in his having coal-mined. But he seemed confident
of detecting the quicker combustion sort, until he asked for necessary impedimenta. It seems
that no good collier can detect an H.E. or any sort of mine without a pail of water, and a
hole about 2,000 feet deep, and a pulley, and a rope ladder and a bratting-slat.

It's true we had some good holes in parts of the trench, where you probably go down 2,000 feet
if you step off the footboards, and the rest of the stuff we might have contrived to improvise.
But for the moment we had somehow run clean out of bratting-slats.

So we had to return the poor fellow with a request that all experts should be completed with
bratting-slats before being sent to the front line. This request only produced the senseless
interrogation, "What is a bratting-slat?" to which we have not yet bothered to reply. In the
meantime if we are really sitting on a mine it seems quite a tame one. It hasn't as much as
barked yet.

Just in our bit we aren't very well off for dug-outs; it isn't really what you'd call a representative
sector from any point of view. But during a blizzard the other night a messenger who had mislaid
himself took us for a serious trench. He made his way along, looking to right and left for
some seat of authority until he came to a hole in the parados, two feet by one, where some
fortunate fellow had ejected an ammunition box and was attempting to boil water on a night-light.
The messenger bent low and asked huskily--

"Is this 'ere comp'ny edquarters?"

The water-boiler looked up. "No," he replied, "it ain't. It's G.H.Q., but DUGGIE 'AIG ain't
at 'ome to no one this evenin'."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "GERMANS' TERRIBLE LOSSES.

    WHOLE CORPS WIPED OUT.

    BY LORD NORTHCLIFFE."

    Belfast News Letter.

Yet, with commendable modesty, his lordship said nothing about this in his recent despatch.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Daily News reports the case of a conscientious objector at York who said he could not take
life--he "would not even eat an egg." We ourselves have conscientious objections to that sort
of egg.

       *       *       *       *       *

OFFICERS' INSTRUCTION CLASS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE KING OF SPAIN.

YOUR MAJESTY, There is a little village in England nestling among wooded hills. It has sent
forth its bravest and best from cottage and farm and manor-house to fight for truth and liberty
and justice. The news of grievous wounds and still more grievous deaths, of men missing and
captured, comes often to that quiet hamlet, and the roll of honour in the little grey stone
church grows longer and longer. In the big house on the hill, at sunrise and at sunset, the
young Lady of the Manor stands at the bedside of her little son, and hears him lisp his simple
prayers to God, and they always end like this:--

    "And God bless Father and Mother and Nurse, and send Father back
    soon from his howwid prison in Germany. And God bless 'specially
    the dear King of SPAIN, who found out about Father. Amen."

The kings of the earth have many priceless possessions; they are able to confer upon each other
various glittering orders of merit and distinction; but we doubt if any one of them has a dearer
possession or a more genuine order of merit than this simple prayer of faith and gratitude
offered at sunrise and at sunset on behalf of Your Majesty by the bedside of a little English
child.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLD SOLDIER.

By a "Temporary" Sub.

  There are some men--and such is Jones--
    Who love to vent their antique spleens
  On any subaltern that owns
  He's not a soldier in his bones
      (I'm not, by any means);
  Who fiercely watch us drill our men
  And tell us things were different when
  (In, I imagine, 1810)
      They joined the Blue Marines.

  I like them not, yet I affect
    That air of awed humility
  Which I should certainly expect,
  If I were old and medal-deck'd,
      From young men under me;
  But when they hint their wondrous wit
  Is what has made them feel so fit
  To do their military bit,
      I simply can't agree.

  I said to Jones--or should have said
    But feared the Articles of War--
  "You must not think you have a head
  Because you know from A to Z
      This military lore,
  By years of study slowly gat
  (And somewhat out-of-date at that),
  When lo, I had the whole thing pat
      In six small months--not more."

  Maybe the mystic art appals
    Unlearned souls of low degrees,
  But men to whom the high Muse calls,
  Men who are good enough for Smalls,
      Imbibe it all with ease;
  While where would Jones, I wonder, be
  If someone took the man for me
  And asked him for some jeu d'esprit,
      A few bright lines (like these)?

  Possibly Jones will one day tire
    Of fours and fights and iron shards,
  Will seize his pencil and aspire
  To court the Muse and match the fire
      Of us poetic cards;
  Then I shall mock his meagre strain
  And gaily make the moral plain,
  How barren is the soldier's brain
      Compared with any bard's.

       *       *       *       *       *

A QUESTION OF THE NUDE.

They scrambled into the carriage in a tremendous hurry, all talking at once at the tops of
their voices, all very excited and very dirty. They had mud on their boots which had evidently
come from France, and their overcoats had that rumpled appearance which distinguishes overcoats
from the Front from those merely in training.

There seemed to be about ten of them as they got into the train, but when they had deposited
various objects on the rack, such as rifles, haversacks, and kit-bags like partially deflated
airships, the number resolved itself into three.

The compartment already contained--besides myself--a naval warrant officer, reading Freckles
with a sentimental expression, and a large leading seaman with hands like small hams and a
peaceful smile like a jade Buddha. It said "H.M.S. Hedgehog" round his cap, but when I ventured
to remark that I once in peace-time saw and visited that vessel he observed with indifference
that "cap-ribbons was nothin' to go by these days; point o' fact, he never see that there ship
in his puff." Otherwise they maintained that deep and significant silence which we have learned
to associate with our Navy.

The Tommies, however, were in very talkative vein. "Now," I thought, "I shall doubtless hear
some real soldiers' stories of the War, even as the newspaper men hear them and reproduce them
in the daily prints: the crash of the artillery, the wild excitement of battle--in short, the
Real Thing...."

A momentous question had evidently been under discussion when they entered the train, and as
soon as they were settled in their seats they resumed it.

"Wot I want to know is," said the largest of the three, a big man with a very square face and
blue eyes,--"wot I want to know is--is that there feller to go walkin' about naked?" The last
word was pronounced as a monosyllable.

He set his fists squarely on his knees and glared around him with a challenging expression.

"No, it's agin the law," said a small man with a very hoarse voice.

"Course it is," rejoined the other. "Well, wot's the feller to do? That's wot I ast you. If
'e walks about naked, well, 'e gets took up for bein' naked; if 'e doesn't, why, 'e gets 'ad
for not returnin' 'is uniform."

He looked round again and decided to take the rest of us into consultation.

"This 'ere's 'ow it stands--see? 'Ere's a feller got the mitten along o' not bein' able to
march, through gettin' shot in the leg. 'E goes 'ome pendin' 'is discharge, an' o' course e'
walks about in 'is uniform. Then 'e gets 'is discharge, an' they tells 'im to return 'is kar-kee
an' small kit----"

"An' small kit?" burst out the third member of the party indignantly--a sprightly youth with
a very short tunic and a pert expression. "Do they want you to return your small kit when you
get the mitten? Watch me returnin' mine, that's all!"

"You'll 'ave to," said the voice of Discipline.

"'Ave to, I don't think!" said the rebel ironically; "I couldn't if I'd lorst it."

"I ain't got no small kit, any 'ow," said the small and husky one; "I put my 'aversack down
when we was diggin' one of our chaps out of a Jack Johnson 'ole, and some bloomin' blighter
pinched it! Now that's a thing as I don't 'old with. Rotten, I call it. I wouldn't say nothing
about it, mind you, if I was dead; I like to 'ave something as belonged to a comrade, myself,
an' I know as 'e'd feel the same, seein' as 'e couldn't want it 'imself. But, if you take a
feller's things w'en 'e's alive, why, you don't know 'ow bad 'e might want 'em some day."

