THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XII, No. 344.] SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

EHRENBREITSTEIN ON RHINE.

  Here Ehrenbreitstein, with her shattered wall,
  Black with the miners' blast, upon her height,
  Yet shows of what she was, when shell and ball
  Rebounding idly on her strength, did light;
  A tower of victory! from whence the flight
  Of baffled foes was watched along the plain:
  But peace destroyed what war could never blight,
  And laid those proud roofs bare to summer's rain,
  On which the iron shower for years had poured in vain.

  Childe Harold.

SPIRIT OF THE "ANNUALS."

We have the pleasure of presenting to the readers of the MIRROR, the completion of our notices
of these very elegant publications; and in pursuance of the plan of our former Supplement,
we are enabled to assemble within the present sheet the characteristics of eight works, whilst
our quotations include fourteen prose tales and sketches, and poetical pieces, of great merit.

The above engraving and its pendant are copied from the Literary Souvenir, specially noticed
in our last Supplement. The original is a drawing by J.M.W. Turner, R.A. and the plate in the
Souvenir is by J. Pye--both artists of high excellence in their respective departments:--

The waters of the Rhine have long maintained their pre-eminence, as forming one of the mightiest
and loveliest among the highways of Europe.

But among all its united trophies of art and nature, there is not one more brightly endowed
with picturesque beauty, or romantic association, than the fortress of Ehrenbreitstein. When
the eye of our own Childe Harold rested upon its "shattered wall," and when the pencil of Turner
immortalized its season of desolation, it had been smitten in the pride of its strength by
the iron glaive of war: and its blackened fragments and stupendous ruins had their voice for
the heart of the moralist, as well as their charm for the inspired mind of genius. But now
that military art hath knit those granite ribs anew,--now that the beautiful eminence rears
once more its crested head, like a sculptured Cybele, with a coronet of towers,--new feelings,
and an altered scale of admiration wait upon its glories. Once more it uplifts its giant height
beside the Rhine, repelling in Titan majesty the ambition of France; once more, by its united
gifts of natural position and scientific aid, it appears prepared to vindicate its noble appellation
of "the broad stone of honour."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUSICAL SOUVENIR.

This is an elegant little collection of seven songs, a trio, duet, and glee, set to music,
or "as they are appointed to be said or sung." As we have not our musical types in order, we
can only give our readers a specimen of its literary merits. The first piece is Akenside's
beautiful Invocation to Cheerfulness; this is pleasingly contrasted with a Song to the Forget-me-not,
by Mrs. Opie. Then follow five pieces from recent volumes of Friendship's Offering and the
Amulet. The three remaining compositions (expressly for the work) are a Song by T. Bradford,
Esq.; a Scotch Song, by Mr. Feist; and the following pathetic Lines, by the Rev. Thomas Dale:--

    Oft as the broad sun dips
      Beneath the western sea,
    A prayer is on my lips,
      Dearest! a prayer for thee.
  I know not where thou wand'rest now,
  O'er ocean-wave, or mountain brow--
    I only know that He,
      Who hears the suppliant's prayer,
    Where'er thou art, on land or sea,
      Alone can shield thee there.

    Oft as the bright dawn breaks
      Behind the eastern hill,
    Mine eye from slumber wakes,
      My heart is with the still--
  For thee my latest vows were said,
  For thee my earliest prayers are pray'd--
    And O! when storms shall lour
      Above the swelling sea,
    Be it thy shield, in danger's hour,
      That I have pray'd for thee.

Whether we consider the purity of its sentiments and the amiable tone of feeling, or its merit
as a musical work, we are induced to recommend the present volume as an elegant present for
a musical friend, and it will doubtless become a favourite with thousands of graceful pianists.
Thanks to the Muses, our lyrical poetry is rapidly rising in the literary scale, when such
beautiful compositions as those of Mrs. Hemans and Miss Landon are no sooner written than set
to music.

The Musical Souvenir is embellished with two engravings and a presentation plate, and bound
in crimson silk--so that it has all the attractions of the annual Christmas presents, except prose.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KEEPSAKE.

EDITED BY F.M. REYNOLDS, ESQ.

This is a magnificent affair, and is one of the proud triumphs of the union of Painting, Engraving,
and Literature--to which we took occasion to allude in a recent number of THE MIRROR. Each
department is unique, and the lists are like the Morning Post account of a drawing room, or
Almack's--the princes of the arts, and the peers of the pen. Painters--Lawrence, Howard, Corbould,
Westall, Turner, Landseer, Stephanoff, Chalon, Stothard, &c. Engravers--C. Heath, Finden, Engleheart,
Portbury, Wallis, Rolls, Goodyear, &c. Contributors--Scott, Mackintosh, Moore, the Lords Normanby,
Morpeth, Porchester, Holland, Gower, and Nugent; Wordsworth, Southey, Coleridge, Shelley, Hook,
Lockhart, Croker, Mrs. Hemans, and Miss Landon; and the cost of the whole eleven thousand guineas!
Of course, such a book has not been the work of a day, month, or, perhaps, a year; and its
literature entitles it to a permanent place in the library, where we hope to see it stand auro
perennius; were its fate to be otherwise, we should condemn the public--for we hate ingratitude
in every shape--and write in the first page the epitaph--For, O, for, O, the hobby-horse is
forgot. A guinea to twopence--Hyperion to a Satyr--how can we extend the fame of The Keepsake!

We cannot particularize the engravings; but they are all worthy companions of the frontispiece--a
lovely portrait of Mrs. Peel, engraved by Heath, from Sir Thomas Lawrence's picture. In the
literary department--a very court of fiction--is, My Aunt Margaret's Mirror, a tale of forty-four
pages; and, The Tapestried Chamber, by Sir Walter Scott; both much too long for extract, which
would indeed be almost unfair. Next comes an exquisite gem--

ON LOVE.

BY PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

This and a fragment, with a character of Mr. Canning, by Sir James Mackintosh, are the transcendentals
of the volume; as are the tale--The Half-brothers, by Mr. Banim, with an Ossian-like plate
of the heroine; The Sisters of Albano, by Mrs. Shelley--Death of the Laird's Jock, by the author
of Waverley--and Ferdinando Eboli, by Mrs. Shelley, with Adelinda, a plate, by Heath, on which
we could feast our eyes for a full hour. Next, a sketch, by Theodore Hook, part of which will
serve to vary our sheet:--

THE OLD GENTLEMAN.

"To-morrow morning," said my friend, "when you awake, the power will be your own; and so, sir,
I wish you a very good night."--"But, sir," said I, anxious to be better assured of the speedy
fulfilment of the wish of my heart, (for such indeed it was,) "may I have the honour of knowing
your name and address?"--"Ha, ha, ha!" said the old gentleman; "my name and address; ha, ha,
ha! my name is pretty familiar to you, young gentleman; and as for my address, I dare say you
will find your way to me some day or another, and so, once more, good night."--Saying which,
he descended the stairs and quitted the house, leaving me to surmise who my extraordinary visiter
could be. I never knew; but I recollect, that after he was gone, I heard one of the old ladies
scolding a servant-girl for wasting so many matches in lighting the candles, and making such
a terrible smell of brimstone in the house. I was now all anxiety to get to bed, not because
I was sleepy, but because it seemed to me as if going to bed would bring me nearer to the time
of getting up, when I should be master of the miraculous power which had been promised me.
I rang the bell; my servant was still out; it was unusual for him to be absent at so late an
hour. I waited until the clock struck eleven, but he came not; and resolving to reprimand him
in the morning, I retired to rest. Contrary to my expectation, and, as it seemed to me, to
the ordinary course of nature, considering the excitement under which I was labouring, I had
scarcely laid my head on my pillow before I dropped into a profound slumber, from which I was
only aroused by my servant's entrance to my room. The instant I awoke, I sat up in bed, and
began to reflect on what had passed, and for a moment to doubt whether it had not been all
a dream. However, it was daylight; the period had arrived when the proof of my newly acquired
power might be made.--"Barton," said I to my man, "why were you not at home last night?"--"I
had to wait, sir, nearly three hours," he replied, "for an answer to the letter which you sent
to Major Sheringham."--"That is not true," said I; and, to my infinite surprise, I appeared
to recollect a series of occurrences, of which I never had previously heard, and could have
known nothing: "you went to see your sweetheart, Betsy Collyer, at Camberwell, and took her
to a tea-garden, and gave her cakes and cider, and saw her home again: you mean to do exactly
the same thing on Sunday, and to-morrow you mean to ask me for your quarter's wages, although
not due till Monday, in order to buy her a new shawl."--The man stood aghast: it was all true.
I was quite as much surprised as the man.--"Sir," said Barton, who had served me for seven
years without having once been found fault with, "I see you think me unworthy your confidence;
you could not have known this, if you had not watched, and followed, and overheard me and my
sweetheart; my character will get me through the world without being looked after. I can stay
with you no longer; you will please, sir, to provide yourself with another servant."--"But
Barton," said I, "I did not follow or watch you; I--"--"I beg your pardon, sir," he replied;
"it is not for me to contradict; but you'll forgive me, sir, I would rather go; I must go."

At this moment I was on the very point of easing his mind, and retaining my faithful servant
by a disclosure of my power; but it was yet too new to be parted with; so I affected an anger
I did not feel, and told him he might go where he pleased. I had, however, ascertained that
the old gentleman had not deceived me in his promises; and, elated with the possession of my
extraordinary faculty, I hurried the operation of dressing, and before I had concluded it,
my ardent friend Sheringham was announced; he was waiting in the breakfast-room. At the same
moment, a note from the lovely Fanny Haywood was delivered to me--from the divine girl who,
in the midst of all my scientific abstraction, could "chain my worldly feelings for a moment."
"Sheringham, my dear fellow," said I, as I advanced to welcome him, "what makes you so early
a visiter this morning?"--"An anxiety," replied Sheringham, "to tell you that my uncle, whose
interest I endeavoured to procure for you, in regard to the appointment for which you expressed
a desire, has been compelled to recommend a relation of the marquess; this gives me real pain,
but I thought it would be best to put you out of suspense as soon as possible."--"Major Sheringham,"
said I, drawing myself up coldly, "if this matter concerns you so deeply as you seem to imply
that it does, might I ask why you so readily agreed to your uncle's proposition or chimed in
with his suggestion, to bestow the appointment on this relation of the marquess, in order that
you might, in return for it, obtain the promotion for which you are so anxious?"--"My dear
fellow," said Sheringham, evidently confused, "I--I--never chimed in; my uncle certainly pointed
out the possibility to which you allude, but that was merely contingent upon what he could
not refuse to do."--"Sheringham," said I, "your uncle has already secured for you the promotion,
and you will be gazetted for the lieutenant-colonelcy of your regiment on Tuesday. I am not
to be told that you called at the Horse-guards, in your way to your uncle's yesterday, to ascertain
the correctness of the report of the vacancy which you had received from your friend Macgregor;
or that you, elated by the prospect before you, were the person, in fact, to suggest the arrangement
which has been made, and promise your uncle 'to smooth me over' for the present."--"Sir," said
Sheringham, "where you picked up this intelligence I know not; but I must say, that such mistrust,
after years of undivided intimacy, is not becoming, or consistent with the character which
I hitherto supposed you to possess. When by sinister means the man we look upon as a friend
descends to be a spy upon our actions, confidence is at an end, and the sooner our intercourse
ceases, the better. Without some such conduct, how could you become possessed of the details
upon which you have grounded your opinion of my conduct?"--"I--," and here again was a temptation
to confess and fall; but I had not the courage to do it. "Suffice it, Major Sheringham, to
say, I knew it; and, moreover, I know, that when you leave me, your present irritation will
prompt you to go to your uncle and check the disposition he feels at this moment to serve me."--"This
is too much, sir," said Sheringham; "this must be our last interview, unless indeed your unguarded
conduct towards me, and your intemperate language concerning me, may render one more meeting
necessary; and so, sir, here ends our acquaintance."--Saying which, Sheringham, whose friendship
even to my enlightened eye was nearly as sincere as any other man's, quitted my room, fully
convinced of my meanness and unworthiness; my heart sank within me when I heard the door close
upon him for the last time. I now possessed the power I had so long desired, and in less than
an hour had lost a valued friend and a faithful servant. Nevertheless, Barton had told me a
falsehood, and Sheringham was gazetted on the Tuesday night.

       *       *       *       *       *

