DEVIL STORIES

AN ANTHOLOGY

SELECTED AND EDITED WITH INTRODUCTION AND CRITICAL COMMENTS

BY MAXIMILIAN J. RUDWIN

    “Mortal, mock not at the Devil,
      Life is short and soon will fail,
    And the ‘fire everlasting’
      Is no idle fairy-tale.”
                               --HEINE.

The Devil Scenes in the Religious Drama of the German Middle Ages.

The Devil in the German Religious Plays of the Middle Ages and the Reformation. [Hesperia:
Johns Hopkins Studies in Modern Philology, No. 6.]

The Origin of the German Carnival Comedy.

In Preparation:

The Devil in Modern French Literature.

TO ALL STUDENTS OF THE SUPERNATURAL IN LITERATURE

NOTE

The preparation of this book would have been out of the question without the co-operation of
authors and publishers. Proper acknowledgment has been given on the first page of each selection
to the publishers who have granted us permission to reprint it. We take this opportunity to
express once more our deep appreciation of the courtesies extended to us by all the parties
concerned in the material between the covers of this book. Special thanks are offered to Mr.
John Masefield for his permission to republish his story, and to Messrs. Arthur Symons and
Leo Wiener and to Miss Isabel F. Hapgood for their permission to use their translations of
the foreign stories which we have selected. To Professor Henry Alfred Todd and Dr. Dorothy
Scarborough, of Columbia University, who have kindly read portions of the manuscript, the editor
is indebted for a number of helpful suggestions. He adds his thanks to Professor Raymond Weeks,
also of Columbia University, who called his attention to the Daudet story, and to his former
colleague, Professor Otto A. Greiner, of Purdue University, who was good enough to read part
of the proofs.

                                             THE PUBLISHER.
                                                THE EDITOR.

CONTENTS

THE DEVIL IN A NUNNERY 1
  A Mediaeval Tale By Francis Oscar Mann

BELPHAGOR, OR THE MARRIAGE OF THE DEVIL (1549) 14
  From the Italian of Niccolò Machiavelli

THE DEVIL AND TOM WALKER (1824) 28
  By Washington Irving

FROM THE MEMOIRS OF SATAN (1828) 46
  From the German of Wilhelm Hauff

ST. JOHN’S EVE (1830) 56
  From the Russian of Nikolái Vasilévich Gógol
  Translated by Isabel F. Hapgood

THE DEVIL’S WAGER (1833) 79
  By William Makepeace Thackeray

THE PAINTER’S BARGAIN (1834) 93
  By William Makepeace Thackeray

BON-BON (1835) 112
  By Edgar Allan Poe

THE PRINTER’S DEVIL (1836) 136
  Anonymous

THE DEVIL’S MOTHER-IN-LAW (1859) 149
  From the Spanish by Fernán Caballero
  Translated by J. H. Ingram

THE GENEROUS GAMBLER (1864) 162
  From the French of Charles Pierre Baudelaire
  Translated by Arthur Symons

THE THREE LOW MASSES (1869) 167
  A Christmas Story From the French of Alphonse Daudet
  Translated by Robert Routeledge

DEVIL-PUZZLERS (1871) 179
  By Frederick Beecher Perkins

THE DEVIL’S ROUND (1874) 203
  A Tale of Flemish Golf From the French of Charles Deulin
  Translated by Isabel Bruce
  With an introductory note by Andrew Lang

THE LEGEND OF MONT ST.-MICHEL (1888) 222
  From the French of Guy de Maupassant

THE DEMON POPE (1888) 228
  By Richard Garnett

MADAM LUCIFER (1888) 242
  By Richard Garnett

LUCIFER (1895) 250
  From the French of Anatole France
  Translated by Alfred Allinson

THE DEVIL (1899) 257
  From the Russian of Maxím Gorky
  Translated by Leo Wiener

THE DEVIL AND THE OLD MAN (1905) 268
  By John Masefield

NOTES 279

INDEX 325

INTRODUCTION

Of all the myths which have come down to us from the East, and of all the creations of Western
fancy and belief, the Personality of Evil has had the strongest attraction for the mind of
man. The Devil is the greatest enigma that has ever confronted the human intelligence. So large
a place has Satan taken in our imagination, and we might also say in our heart, that his expulsion
therefrom, no matter what philosophy may teach us, must for ever remain an impossibility. As
a character in imaginative literature Lucifer has not his equal in heaven above or on the earth
beneath. In contrast to the idea of Good, which is the more exalted in proportion to its freedom
from anthropomorphism, the idea of Evil owes to the presence of this element its chief value
as a poetic theme. The discrowned archangel may have been inferior to St. Michael in military
tactics, but he certainly is his superior in matters literary. The fair angels--all frankness
and goodness--are beyond our comprehension, but the fallen angels, with all their faults and
sufferings, are kin to us.

There is a legend that the Devil has always had literary aspirations. The German theosophist
Jacob Böhme relates that when Satan was asked to explain the cause of God’s enmity to him and
his consequent downfall, he replied: “I wanted to be an author.” Whether or not the Devil has
ever written anything over his own signature, he has certainly helped others compose their
greatest works. It is a significant fact that the greatest imaginations have discerned an attraction
in Diabolus. What would the world’s literature be if from it we eliminated Dante’s Divine Comedy,
Calderón’s Marvellous Magician, Milton’s Paradise Lost, Goethe’s Faust, Byron’s Cain, Vigny’s
Eloa, and Lermontov’s Demon? Sorry indeed would have been the plight of literature without
a judicious admixture of the Diabolical. Without the Devil there would simply be no literature,
because without his intervention there would be no plot, and without a plot the story of the
world would lose its interest. Even now, when the belief in the Devil has gone out of fashion,
and when the very mention of his name, far from causing men to cross themselves, brings a smile
to their faces, Satan has continued to be a puissant personage in the realm of letters. As
a matter of fact, Beelzebub has perhaps received his greatest elaboration at the hands of writers
who believed in him just as little as Shakespeare did in the ghost of Hamlet’s father.

Commenting on Anatole France’s The Revolt of the Angels, an American critic has recently written:
“It is difficult to rehabilitate Beelzebub, not because people are of one mind concerning Beelzebub,
but because they are of no mind at all.” How this demon must have laughed when he read these
lines! Why, he needs no rehabilitation. The Devil has never been absent from the world of letters,
just as he has never been missing from the world of men. Since the days of Job, Satan has taken
a deep interest in the affairs of the human race; and while most writers content themselves
with recording his activities on this planet, there never have been lacking men of sufficient
courage to call upon the prince of darkness in his proper dominions in order to bring back
to us, for our instruction and edification, a report of his work there. The most distinguished
poet his infernal Highness has ever entertained at his court, it will be recalled, was Dante.
The mark which the scorching fires of hell left on Dante’s face, was to his contemporaries
sufficient proof of the truth of his story.

The subject-matter of literature may always have been in a state of flux, but the Devil has
been present in all the stages of literary evolution. All schools of literature in all ages
and in all languages set themselves, whether consciously or unconsciously, to represent and
interpret the Devil, and each school has treated him in its own characteristic manner.

The Devil is an old character in literature. Perhaps he is as old as literature itself. He
is encountered in the story of the paradisiacal sojourn of our first ancestors, and from that
day on, Satan has appeared unfailingly, in various forms and with various functions, in all
the literatures of the world. His person and his power continued to develop and to multiply
with the advance of the centuries, so that in the Middle Ages the world fairly pullulated with
demons. From his minor place in the biblical books, the Devil grew to a position of paramount
importance in mediaeval literature. The Reformation, which was a movement of progress in so
many respects, left his position intact. Indeed, it rather increased his power by withdrawing
from the saints the right of intercession in behalf of the sinners. Neither the Renaissance
of ancient learning nor the institution of modern science could prevail against Satan. As a
matter of fact, the growth of the interest in the Devil has been on a level with the development
of the spirit of philosophical inquiry. French classicism, to be sure, occasioned a setback
for our hero. As a member of the Christian hierarchy of supernatural personages, the Devil
could not help but be affected by the ban under which Boileau placed Christian supernaturalism.
But even the eighteenth century, a period so inimical to the Supernatural, produced two master-devils
in fiction: Le Sage’s Asmodeus and Cazotte’s Beelzebub--worthy members of the august company
of literary Devils.

But as if to make amends for its long lack of appreciation of the Devil’s literary possibilities,
France, in the beginning of the nineteenth century, brought about a distinct reaction in his
favour. The sympathy extended by that country of revolutionary progress to all victims and
to all rebels, whether individuals or classes or nations, could not well be denied to the celestial
outlaw. The fighters for political, social, intellectual, and emotional liberty on earth, could
not withhold their admiration from the angel who demanded freedom of thought and independence
of action in heaven. The rebel of the Empyrean was hailed as the first martyr in the cause
of liberty, and his rehabilitation in heaven was demanded by the rebels on earth. Satan became
the symbol of the restless, hapless nineteenth century. Through his mouth that age uttered
its protest against the monarchs of heaven and earth. The Romantic generation of 1830 thought
the world more than ever out of joint, and who was better fitted than the Devil to express
their dissatisfaction with the celestial government of terrestrial affairs? Satan is the eternal
Malcontent. To Hamlet, Denmark seemed gloomy; to Satan, the whole world appears dark. The admiration
of the Romanticists for Satan was mixed with pity and sympathy--so much his melancholy endeared
him to their sympathies, so kindred it seemed to their human weakness. The Romanticists felt
a deep admiration for solitary grandeur. This “knight of the doleful countenance,” laden with
a curse and drawing misfortune in his train, was the ideal Romantic hero. Was he not indeed
the original beau ténébreux? Thus Satan became the typical figure of that period and its poetry.
It has been well remarked that if Satan had not existed, the Romanticists would have invented
him. The Devil’s influence on the Romantic School was so strong and so sustained that soon
it was named after him. The terms Romantic and Satanic came to be wellnigh synonymous. The
interest which the French Romanticists showed in the Devil, moreover, passed beyond the boundaries
of France and the limits of the nineteenth century. The Symbolists, for whom the mysteries
of Erebus had a potent attraction, were simply obsessed by Satan. But even the Naturalists,
who certainly were not haunted by phantoms, often succumbed to his charms. Foreign writers
turning for inspiration to France, where the literature of the last century reached its highest
perfection, were also caught in the French enthusiasm for the Devil.

Needless to say that this Devil is not the evil spirit of mediaeval dogma. The Romantic Devil
is an altogether new species of the genus diaboli. There are fashions in Devils as in dresses,
and what is a Devil in one country or one century may not pass muster in another. It is related
that after the glory of Greece had departed, a mariner, voyaging along her coast by night,
heard from the woods the cry: “Great Pan is dead!” But Pan was not dead; he had fallen asleep
to awake again as Satan. In like manner, when the eighteenth century believed Satan to be dead,
he was, as a matter of fact, only recuperating his energies for a fresh start in a new form.
His new avatar was Prometheus. Satan continued to be the enemy of God, but he was no longer
the enemy of man. Instead of a demon of darkness he became a god of grace. This champion of
celestial combat was not actuated by hatred and envy of man, as Christianity was thought to
teach us, but by love and pity for humankind. The strongest expression of this idea of the
Devil in modern literature has been given by August Strindberg, whose Lucifer is a compound
of Prometheus, Apollo and Christ. However, this interpretation of the Devil, whatever value
it may have from the point of view of originality, is aesthetically as well as theologically
not acceptable. Such a revaluation of an old value offends our intellect while it touches our
heart. All successful treatment of the Devil in literature and art must be made to correspond
with the norm of popular belief. In art we are all orthodox, whatever our views may be in religion.
This new conception of Satan will be found chiefly in poetry, while the popular concept has
been continued in prose. But even here a gradual evolution of the idea of the Devil will be
observed. The nineteenth century Demon is an improvement on his confrère of the thirteenth.
He differs from his older brother as a cultivated flower from a wild blossom. The Devil as
a human projection is bound to partake in the progress of human thought. Says Mephistopheles:

    “Culture, which the whole world licks,
    Also unto the Devil sticks.”

The Devil advances with the progress of civilization, because he is what men make him. He has
benefited by the modern levelling tendency in characterization. Nowadays supernatural personages,
like their human creators, are no longer painted either as wholly white or as wholly black,
but in various shades of grey. The Devil, as Renan has aptly remarked, has chiefly benefited
by this relativist point of view. The Spirit of Evil is better than he was, because evil is
no longer so bad as it was. Satan, even in the popular mind, is no longer a villain of the
deepest dye. At his worst he is the general mischief-maker of the universe, who loves to stir
up the earth with his pitch-fork. In modern literature the Devil’s chief function is that of
a satirist. This fine critic directs the shafts of his sarcasm against all the faults and foibles
of men. He spares no human institution. In religion, art, society, marriage--everywhere his
searching eye can detect the weak spots. The latest demonstration of the Devil’s ability as
a satirist of men and morals is furnished by Mark Twain in his posthumous romance The Mysterious
Stranger.

The Devil Lore Series, which opens with this book of Devil Stories, is to serve as documentary
evidence of man’s abiding interest in the Devil. It will be a sort of portrait-gallery of the
literary delineations of Satan. The Anthologies of Diabolical Literature may be considered,
I trust, without any risk of offence to any theological or philosophical prepossession. To
those alike who accept and who reject the belief in the Devil’s spiritual entity apart from
man’s, there must be profit and pleasure in the contemplation of his literary incarnations.
As regards the Devil’s fitness as a literary character, all intelligent men and women, believers
and unbelievers, may be assumed to have but one opinion.

This Series is wholly devoted to the Christian Devil with the total disregard of his cousins
in the other faiths. There will, however, be found a strong Jewish element in Christian demonology.
It must be borne in mind that our literature has become saturated through Christian channels
with the traditions of the parent creed.

This collection has been limited to twenty tales. Within the bounds thus set, an effort has
been made to have this book as representative of national and individual conceptions of the
Devil as possible. The tales have been taken from many times and tongues. Selection has been
made not only among writers, but also among the stories of each writer. In two instances, however,
where the choice was not so easy, an author is represented by two specimens from his pen.

The stories have been arranged in chronological order to show the constant and continuous appeal
on the part of the Devil to our story-writers. The mediaeval tale, although published last,
was placed first. For obvious reasons, this story has not been given in its original form,
but in its modernized version. While this is not meant to be a nursery-book, it has been made
virginibus puerisque, and for this reason, selections from Boccaccio, Rabelais and Balzac could
not find their way into these pages. Moreover, as this volume was limited to narratives in
prose, devil’s tales in verse by Chaucer, Hans Sachs and La Fontaine could not be considered,
either. Nevertheless this collection is sufficiently comprehensive to please all tastes in
Devils. The reader will find between the covers of this book Devils fascinating and fearful,
Devils powerful and picturesque, Devils serious and humorous, Devils pathetic and comic, Devils
phantastic and satiric, Devils gruesome and grotesque. I have tried, though, to keep them all
in good humour throughout the book, and can accordingly assure the reader that he need fear
no harm from an intimate acquaintance with the diabolical company to which he is herewith introduced.

                                       MAXIMILIAN J. RUDWIN.

THE DEVIL IN A NUNNERY[1]

BY FRANCIS OSCAR MANN

    [1] Taken by permission from The Devil in a Nunnery and
    other Mediaeval Tales, by Francis Oscar Mann, published by
    P. Dutton & Company, New York, 1914.

Buckingham is as pleasant a shire as a man shall see on a seven days’ journey. Neither was
it any less pleasant in the days of our Lord King Edward, the third of that name, he who fought
and put the French to shameful discomfiture at Crecy and Poitiers and at many another hard-fought
field. May God rest his soul, for he now sleeps in the great Church at Westminster.

Buckinghamshire is full of smooth round hills and woodlands of hawthorn and beech, and it is
a famous country for its brooks and shaded waterways running through the low hay meadows. Upon
its hills feed a thousand sheep, scattered like the remnants of the spring snow, and it was
from these that the merchants made themselves fat purses, sending the wool into Flanders in
exchange for silver crowns. There were many strong castles there too, and rich abbeys, and
the King’s Highway ran through it from North to South, upon which the pilgrims went in crowds
to worship at the Shrine of the Blessed Saint Alban. Thereon also rode noble knights and stout
men-at-arms, and these you could follow with the eye by their glistening armour, as they wound
over hill and dale, mile after mile, with shining spears and shields and fluttering pennons,
and anon a trumpet or two sounding the same keen note as that which rang out dreadfully on
those bloody fields of France. The girls used to come to the cottage doors or run to hide themselves
in the wayside woods to see them go trampling by; for Buckinghamshire girls love a soldier
above all men. Nor, I warrant you, were jolly friars lacking in the highways and the by-ways
and under the hedges, good men of religion, comfortable of penance and easy of life, who could
tip a wink to a housewife, and drink and crack a joke with the good man, going on their several
ways with tight paunches, skins full of ale and a merry salutation for every one. A fat pleasant
land was this Buckinghamshire; always plenty to eat and drink therein, and pretty girls and
lusty fellows; and God knows what more a man can expect in a world where all is vanity, as
the Preacher truly says.

There was a nunnery at Maids Moreton, two miles out from Buckingham Borough, on the road to
Stony Stratford, and the place was called Maids Moreton because of the nunnery. Very devout
creatures were the nuns, being holy ladies out of families of gentle blood. They punctually
fulfilled to the letter all the commands of the pious founder, just as they were blazoned on
the great parchment Regula, which the Lady Mother kept on her reading-desk in her little cell.
If ever any of the nuns, by any chance or subtle machination of the Evil One, was guilty of
the smallest backsliding from the conduct that beseemed them, they made full and devout confession
thereof to the Holy Father who visited them for this purpose. This good man loved swan’s meat
and galingale, and the charitable nuns never failed to provide of their best for him on his
visiting days; and whatsoever penance he laid upon them they performed to the utmost, and with
due contrition of heart.

From Matins to Compline they regularly and decently carried out the services of Holy Mother
Church. After dinner, one read aloud to them from the Rule, and again after supper there was
reading from the life of some notable Saint or Virgin, that thereby they might find ensample
for themselves on their own earthly pilgrimage. For the rest, they tended their herb garden,
reared their chickens, which were famous for miles around, and kept strict watch over their
haywards and swineherds. If time was when they had nothing more important on hand, they set
to and made the prettiest blood bandages imaginable for the Bishop, the Bishop’s Chaplain,
the Archdeacon, the neighbouring Abbot and other godly men of religion round about, who were
forced often to bleed themselves for their health’s sake and their eternal salvation, so that
these venerable men in process of time came to have by them great chests full of these useful
articles. If little tongues wagged now and then as the sisters sat at their sewing in the great
hall, who shall blame them, Eva peccatrice? Not I; besides, some of them were something stricken
in years, and old women are garrulous and hard to be constrained from chattering and gossiping.
But being devout women they could have spoken no evil.

One evening after Vespers all these good nuns sat at supper, the Abbess on her high dais and
the nuns ranged up and down the hall at the long trestled tables. The Abbess had just said
“Gratias” and the sisters had sung “Qui vivit et regnat per omnia saecula saeculorum, Amen,”
when in came the Manciple mysteriously, and, with many deprecating bows and outstretchings
of the hands, sidled himself up upon the dais, and, permission having been given him, spoke
to the Lady Mother thus:

“Madam, there is a certain pilgrim at the gate who asks refreshment and a night’s lodging.”
It is true he spoke softly, but little pink ears are sharp of hearing, and nuns, from their
secluded way of life, love to hear news of the great world.

“Send him away,” said the Abbess. “It is not fit that a man should lie within this house.”

“Madam, he asks food and a bed of straw lest he should starve of hunger and exhaustion on his
way to do penance and worship at the Holy Shrine of the Blessed Saint Alban.”

“What kind of pilgrim is he?”

“Madam, to speak truly, I know not; but he appears of a reverend and gracious aspect, a young
man well spoken and well disposed. Madam knows it waxeth late, and the ways are dark and foul.”

“I would not have a young man, who is given to pilgrimages and good works, to faint and starve
by the wayside. Let him sleep with the haywards.”

“But, Madam, he is a young man of goodly appearance and conversation; saving your reverence,
I would not wish to ask him to eat and sleep with churls.”

“He must sleep without. Let him, however, enter and eat of our poor table.”

“Madam, I will strictly enjoin him what you command. He hath with him, however, an instrument
of music and would fain cheer you with spiritual songs.”

A little shiver of anticipation ran down the benches of the great hall, and the nuns fell to
whispering.

“Take care, Sir Manciple, that he be not some light juggler, a singer of vain songs, a mocker.
I would not have these quiet halls disturbed by wanton music and unholy words. God forbid.”
And she crossed herself.

“Madam, I will answer for it.”

The Manciple bowed himself from the dais and went down the middle of the hall, his keys rattling
at his belt. A little buzz of conversation rose from the sisters and went up to the oak roof-trees,
like the singing of bees. The Abbess told her beads.

The hall door opened and in came the pilgrim. God knows what manner of man he was; I cannot
tell you. He certainly was lean and lithe like a cat, his eyes danced in his head like the
very devil, but his cheeks and jaws were as bare of flesh as any hermit’s that lives on roots
and ditchwater. His yellow-hosed legs went like the tune of a May game, and he screwed and
twisted his scarlet-jerkined body in time with them. In his left hand he held a cithern, on
which he twanged with his right, making a cunning noise that titillated the back-bones of those
who heard it, and teased every delicate nerve in the body. Such a tune would have tickled the
ribs of Death himself. A queer fellow to go pilgrimaging certainly, but why, when they saw
him, all the young nuns tittered and the old nuns grinned, until they showed their red gums,
it is hard to tell. Even the Lady Mother on the dais smiled, though she tried to frown a moment
later.

The pilgrim stepped lightly up to the dais, the infernal devil in his legs making the nuns
think of the games the village folk play all night in the churchyard on Saint John’s Eve.

“Gracious Mother,” he cried, bowing deeply and in comely wise, “allow a poor pilgrim on his
way to confess and do penance at the shrine of Saint Alban to take food in your hall, and to
rest with the haywards this night, and let me thereof make some small recompense with a few
sacred numbers, such as your pious founder would not have disdained to hear.”

“Young man,” returned the Abbess, “right glad am I to hear that God has moved thy heart to
godly works and to go on pilgrimages, and verily I wish it may be to thy soul’s health and
to the respite of thy pains hereafter. I am right willing that thou shouldst refresh thyself
with meat and rest at this holy place.”

“Madam, I thank thee from my heart, but as some slight token of gratitude for so large a favour,
let me, I pray thee, sing one or two of my divine songs, to the uplifting of these holy Sisters’
hearts.”

Another burst of chatter, louder than before, from the benches in the hall. One or two of the
younger Sisters clapped their plump white hands and cried, “Oh!” The Lady Abbess held up her
hand for silence.

“Verily, I should be glad to hear some sweet songs of religion, and I think it would be to
the uplifting of these Sisters’ hearts. But, young man, take warning against singing any wanton
lines of vain imagination, such as the ribalds use on the highways, and the idlers and haunters
of taverns. I have heard them in my youth, although my ears tingle to think of them now, and
I should think it shame that any such light words should echo among these sacred rafters or
disturb the slumber of our pious founder, who now sleeps in Christ. Let me remind you of what
saith Saint Jeremie, Onager solitarius, in desiderio animae suae, attraxit ventum amoris; the
wild ass of the wilderness, in the desire of his heart, snuffeth up the wind of love; whereby
that holy man signifies that vain earthly love, which is but wind and air, and shall avail
nothing at all, when this weak, impure flesh is sloughed away.”

“Madam, such songs as I shall sing, I learnt at the mouth of our holy parish priest, Sir Thomas,
a man of all good learning and purity of heart.”

“In that case,” said the Abbess, “sing in God’s name, but stand at the end of the hall, for
it suits not the dignity of my office a man should stand so near this dais.”

Whereon the pilgrim, making obeisance, went to the end of the hall, and the eyes of all the
nuns danced after his dancing legs, and their ears hung on the clear, sweet notes he struck
out of his cithern as he walked. He took his place with his back against the great hall door,
in such attitude as men use when they play the cithern. A little trembling ran through the
nuns, and some rose from their seats and knelt on the benches, leaning over the table, the
better to see and hear him. Their eyes sparkled like dew on meadowsweet on a fair morning.

Certainly his fingers were bewitched or else the devil was in his cithern, for such sweet sounds
had never been heard in the hall since the day when it was built and consecrated to the service
of the servants of God. The shrill notes fell like a tinkling rain from the high roof in mad,
fantastic trills and dying falls that brought all one’s soul to one’s lips to suck them in.
What he sang about, God only knows; not one of the nuns or even the holy Abbess herself could
have told you, although you had offered her a piece of the True Cross or a hair of the Blessed
Virgin for a single word. But a divine yearning filled all their hearts; they seemed to hear
ten thousand thousand angels singing in choruses, Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia; they floated
up on impalpable clouds of azure and silver, up through the blissful paradises of the uppermost
heaven; their nostrils were filled with the odours of exquisite spices and herbs and smoke
of incense; their eyes dazzled at splendours and lights and glories; their ears were full of
gorgeous harmonies and all created concords of sweet sounds; the very fibres of being were
loosened within them, as though their souls would leap forth from their bodies in exquisite
dissolution. The eyes of the younger nuns grew round and large and tender, and their breath
almost died upon their velvet lips. As for the old nuns, the great, salt tears coursed down
their withered cheeks and fell like rain on their gnarled hands. The Abbess sat on her dais
with her lips apart, looking into space, ten thousand thousand miles away. But no one saw her
and she saw no one; every one had forgotten every one else in that delicious intoxication.

Then with a shrill cry, full of human yearnings and desire, the minstrel came to a sudden stop--

    “Western wind, when wilt thou blow,
      And the small rain will down rain?
    Christ, if my love were in my arms,
      And I in my bed again.”

Silence!--not one of the holy Sisters spoke, but some sighed; some put their hands over their
hearts, and one put her hand in her hood, but when she felt her hair shorn close to her scalp,
drew it out again sharply, as though she had touched red-hot iron, and cried, “O Jesu.”

Sister Peronelle, a toothless old woman, began to speak in a cracked, high voice, quickly and
monotonously, as though she spoke in a dream. Her eyes were wet and red, and her thin lips
trembled. “God knows,” she said, “I loved him; God knows it. But I bid all those who be maids
here, to be mindful of the woods. For they are green, but they are deep and dark, and it is
merry in the springtime with the thick turf below and the good boughs above, all alone with
your heart’s darling--all alone in the green wood. But God help me, he would not stay any more
than snow at Easter. I thought just now that I was back with him in the woods. God keep all
those that be maids from the green woods.”

The pretty Sister Ursula, who had only just finished her novitiate, was as white as a sheet.
Her breath came thickly and quick as though she bore a great burden up hill. A great sigh made
her comely shoulders rise and fall. “Blessed Virgin,” she cried. “Ah, ye ask too much; I did
not know; God help me, I did not know,” and her grey eyes filled with sudden tears, and she
dropped her head on her arms on the table, and sobbed aloud.

Then cried out Sister Katherine, who looked as old and dead as a twig dropped from a tree of
last autumn, and at whom the younger Sisters privily mocked, “It is the wars, the wars, the
cursed wars. I have held his head in this lap, I tell you; I have kissed his soul into mine.
But now he lies dead, and his pretty limbs all dropped away into earth. Holy Mother, have pity
on me. I shall never kiss his sweet lips again or look into his jolly eyes. My heart is broken
long since. Holy Mother! Holy Mother!”

“He must come oftener,” said a plump Sister of thirty, with a little nose turned up at the
end, eyes black as sloes and lips round as a plum. “I go to the orchard day after day, and
gather my lap full of apples. He is my darling. Why does he not come? I look for him every
time that I gather the ripe apples. He used to come; but that was in the spring, and Our Lady
knows that is long ago. Will it not be spring again soon? I have gathered many ripe apples.”

Sister Margarita rocked herself to and fro in her seat and crossed her arms on her breast.
She was singing quietly to herself.

      “Lulla, lullay, thou tiny little child,
      Lulla, lullay, lullay;
    Suck at my breast that am thereat beguiled,
      Lulla, lullay, lullay.”

She moaned to herself, “I have seen the village women go to the well, carrying their babies
with them, and they laugh as they go by on the way. Their babies hold them tight round the
neck, and their mothers comfort them, saying, ‘Hey, hey, my little son; hey, hey, my sweeting.’
Christ and the blessed Saints know that I have never felt a baby’s little hand in my bosom--and
now I shall die without it, for I am old and past the age of bearing children.”

      “Lulla, lullay, thou tiny little boy,
      Lulla, lullay, lullay;
    To feel thee suck doth soothe my great annoy,
      Lulla, lullay, lullay.”

“I have heard them on a May morning, with their pipes and tabors and jolly, jolly music,” cried
Sister Helen; “I have seen them too, and my heart has gone with them to bring back the white
hawthorn from the woods. ‘A man and a maid to a hawthorn bough,’ as it says in the song. They
sing outside my window all Saint John’s Eve so that I cannot say my prayers for the wild thoughts
they put into my brain, as they go dancing up and down in the churchyard; I cannot forget the
pretty words they say to each other, ‘Sweet love, a kiss’; ‘kiss me, my love, nor let me go’;
‘As I went through the garden gate’; ‘A bonny black knight, a bonny black knight, and what
will you give to me? A kiss, and a kiss, and no more than a kiss, under the wild rose tree.’
Oh, Mary Mother, have pity on a poor girl’s heart, I shall die, if no one love me, I shall die.”

“In faith, I am truly sorry, William,” said Sister Agnes, who was gaunt and hollow-eyed with
long vigils and overfasting, for which the good father had rebuked her time after time, saying
that she overtasked the poor weak flesh. “I am truly sorry that I could not wait. But the neighbours
made such a clamour, and my father and mother buffeted me too sorely. It is under the oak tree,
no more than a foot deep, and covered with the red and brown leaves. It was a pretty sight
to see the red blood on its neck, as white as whalebone, and it neither cried nor wept, so
I put it down among the leaves, the pretty poppet; and it was like thee, William, it was like
thee. I am sorry I did not wait, and now I’m worn and wan for thy sake, this many a long year,
and all in vain, for thou never comst. I am an old woman now, and I shall soon be quiet and
not complain any more.”

Some of the Sisters were sobbing as if their hearts would break; some sat quiet and still,
and let the tears fall from their eyes unchecked; some smiled and cried together; some sighed
a little and trembled like aspen leaves in a southern wind. The great candles in the hall were
burning down to their sockets. One by one they spluttered out. A ghostly, flickering light
fell upon the legend over the broad dais, “Connubium mundum sed virginitas paradisum complet”--“Marriage
replenisheth the World, but virginity Paradise.”

“Dong, dong, dong.” Suddenly the great bell of the Nunnery began to toll. With a cry the Abbess
sprang to her feet; there were tear stains on her white cheeks, and her hand shook as she pointed
fiercely to the door.

“Away, false pilgrim,” she cried. “Silence, foul blasphemer! Retro me, Satanas.” She crossed
herself again and again, saying Pater Noster.

The nuns screamed and trembled with terror. A little cloud of blue smoke arose from where the
minstrel had stood. There was a little tongue of flame, and he had disappeared. It was almost
dark in the hall. A few sobs broke the silence. The dying light of a single candle fell on
the form of the Lady Mother.

“Tomorrow,” she said, “we shall fast and sing Placebo and Dirige and the Seven Penitential
Psalms. May the Holy God have mercy upon us for all we have done and said and thought amiss
this night. Amen.”

BELPHAGOR

BY NICCOLÒ MACHIAVELLI

We read in the ancient archives of Florence the following account, as it was received from
the lips of a very holy man, greatly respected by every one for the sanctity of his manners
at the period in which he lived. Happening once to be deeply absorbed in his prayers, such
was their efficacy, that he saw an infinite number of condemned souls, belonging to those miserable
mortals who had died in their sins, undergoing the punishment due to their offences in the
regions below. He remarked that the greater part of them lamented nothing so bitterly as their
folly in having taken wives, attributing to them the whole of their misfortunes. Much surprised
at this, Minos and Rhadamanthus, with the rest of the infernal judges, unwilling to credit
all the abuse heaped upon the female sex, and wearied from day to day with its repetition,
agreed to bring the matter before Pluto. It was then resolved that the conclave of infernal
princes should form a committee of inquiry, and should adopt such measures as might be deemed
most advisable by the court in order to discover the truth or falsehood of the calumnies which
they heard. All being assembled in council, Pluto addressed them as follows: “Dearly beloved
demons! though by celestial dispensation and the irreversible decree of fate this kingdom fell
to my share, and I might strictly dispense with any kind of celestial or earthly responsibility,
yet, as it is more prudent and respectful to consult the laws and to hear the opinion of others,
I have resolved to be guided by your advice, particularly in a case that may chance to cast
some imputation upon our government. For the souls of all men daily arriving in our kingdom
still continue to lay the whole blame upon their wives, and as this appears to us impossible,
we must be careful how we decide in such a business, lest we also should come in for a share
of their abuse, on account of our too great severity; and yet judgment must be pronounced,
lest we be taxed with negligence and with indifference to the interests of justice. Now, as
the latter is the fault of a careless, and the former of an unjust judge, we, wishing to avoid
the trouble and the blame that might attach to both, yet hardly seeing how to get clear of
it, naturally enough apply to you for assistance, in order that you may look to it, and contrive
in some way that, as we have hitherto reigned without the slightest imputation upon our character,
we may continue to do so for the future.”

The affair appearing to be of the utmost importance to all the princes present, they first
resolved that it was necessary to ascertain the truth, though they differed as to the best
means of accomplishing this object. Some were of opinion that they ought to choose one or more
from among themselves, who should be commissioned to pay a visit to the world, and in a human
shape endeavour personally to ascertain how far such reports were grounded in truth. To many
others it appeared that this might be done without so much trouble merely by compelling some
of the wretched souls to confess the truth by the application of a variety of tortures. But
the majority being in favour of a journey to the world, they abided by the former proposal.
No one, however, being ambitious of undertaking such a task, it was resolved to leave the affair
to chance. The lot fell upon the arch-devil Belphagor, who, previous to the Fall, had enjoyed
the rank of archangel in a higher world. Though he received his commission with a very ill
grace, he nevertheless felt himself constrained by Pluto’s imperial mandate, and prepared to
execute whatever had been determined upon in council. At the same time he took an oath to observe
the tenor of his instructions, as they had been drawn up with all due solemnity and ceremony
for the purpose of his mission. These were to the following effect:--Imprimis, that the better
to promote the object in view, he should be furnished with a hundred thousand gold ducats;
secondly, that he should make use of the utmost expedition in getting into the world; thirdly,
that after assuming the human form he should enter into the marriage state; and lastly, that
he should live with his wife for the space of ten years. At the expiration of this period,
he was to feign death and return home, in order to acquaint his employers, by the fruits of
experience, what really were the respective conveniences and inconveniences of matrimony. The
conditions further ran, that during the said ten years he should be subject to all kinds of
miseries and disasters, like the rest of mankind, such as poverty, prisons, and diseases into
which men are apt to fall, unless, indeed, he could contrive by his own skill and ingenuity
to avoid them. Poor Belphagor having signed these conditions and received the money, forthwith
came into the world, and having set up his equipage, with a numerous train of servants, he
made a very splendid entrance into Florence. He selected this city in preference to all others,
as being most favourable for obtaining an usurious interest of his money; and having assumed
the name of Roderigo, a native of Castile, he took a house in the suburbs of Ognissanti. And
because he was unable to explain the instructions under which he acted, he gave out that he
was a merchant, who having had poor prospects in Spain, had gone to Syria, and succeeded in
acquiring his fortune at Aleppo, whence he had lastly set out for Italy, with the intention
of marrying and settling there, as one of the most polished and agreeable countries he knew.

Roderigo was certainly a very handsome man, apparently about thirty years of age, and he lived
in a style of life that showed he was in pretty easy circumstances, if not possessed of immense
wealth. Being, moreover, extremely affable and liberal, he soon attracted the notice of many
noble citizens blessed with large families of daughters and small incomes. The former of these
were soon offered to him, from among whom Roderigo chose a very beautiful girl of the name
of Onesta, a daughter of Amerigo Donati, who had also three sons, all grown up, and three more
daughters, also nearly marriageable. Though of a noble family and enjoying a good reputation
in Florence, his father-in-law was extremely poor, and maintained as poor an establishment.
Roderigo, therefore, made very splendid nuptials, and omitted nothing that might tend to confer
honour upon such a festival, being liable, under the law which he received on leaving his infernal
abode, to feel all kinds of vain and earthly passions. He therefore soon began to enter into
all the pomps and vanities of the world, and to aim at reputation and consideration among mankind,
which put him to no little expense. But more than this, he had not long enjoyed the society
of his beloved Onesta, before he became tenderly attached to her, and was unable to behold
her suffer the slightest inquietude or vexation. Now, along with her other gifts of beauty
and nobility, the lady had brought into the house of Roderigo such an insufferable portion
of pride, that in this respect Lucifer himself could not equal her; for her husband, who had
experienced the effects of both, was at no loss to decide which was the most intolerable of
the two. Yet it became infinitely worse when she discovered the extent of Roderigo’s attachment
to her, of which she availed herself to obtain an ascendancy over him and rule him with a rod
of iron. Not content with this, when she found he would bear it, she continued to annoy him
with all kinds of insults and taunts, in such a way as to give him the most indescribable pain
and uneasiness. For what with the influence of her father, her brothers, her friends, and relatives,
the duty of the matrimonial yoke, and the love he bore her, he suffered all for some time with
the patience of a saint. It would be useless to recount the follies and extravagancies into
which he ran in order to gratify her taste for dress, and every article of the newest fashion,
in which our city, ever so variable in its nature, according to its usual habits, so much abounds.
Yet, to live upon easy terms with her, he was obliged to do more than this; he had to assist
his father-in-law in portioning off his other daughters; and she next asked him to furnish
one of her brothers with goods to sail for the Levant, another with silks for the West, while
a third was to be set up in a goldbeater’s establishment at Florence. In such objects the greatest
part of his fortune was soon consumed. At length the Carnival season was at hand; the festival
of St. John was to be celebrated, and the whole city, as usual, was in a ferment. Numbers of
the noblest families were about to vie with each other in the splendour of their parties, and
the Lady Onesta, being resolved not to be outshone by her acquaintance, insisted that Roderigo
should exceed them all in the richness of their feasts. For the reasons above stated, he submitted
to her will; nor, indeed, would he have scrupled at doing much more, however difficult it might
have been, could he have flattered himself with a hope of preserving the peace and comfort
of his household, and of awaiting quietly the consummation of his ruin. But this was not the
case, inasmuch as the arrogant temper of his wife had grown to such a height of asperity by
long indulgence, that he was at a loss in what way to act. His domestics, male and female,
would no longer remain in the house, being unable to support for any length of time the intolerable
life they led. The inconvenience which he suffered in consequence of having no one to whom
he could intrust his affairs it is impossible to express. Even his own familiar devils, whom
he had brought along with him, had already deserted him, choosing to return below rather than
longer submit to the tyranny of his wife. Left, then, to himself, amidst this turbulent and
unhappy life, and having dissipated all the ready money he possessed, he was compelled to live
upon the hopes of the returns expected from his ventures in the East and the West. Being still
in good credit, in order to support his rank he resorted to bills of exchange; nor was it long
before, accounts running against him, he found himself in the same situation as many other
unhappy speculators in that market. Just as his case became extremely delicate, there arrived
sudden tidings both from East and West that one of his wife’s brothers had dissipated the whole
of Roderigo’s profits in play, and that while the other was returning with a rich cargo uninsured,
his ship had the misfortune to be wrecked, and he himself was lost. No sooner did this affair
transpire than his creditors assembled, and supposing it must be all over with him, though
their bills had not yet become due, they resolved to keep a strict watch over him in fear that
he might abscond. Roderigo, on his part, thinking that there was no other remedy, and feeling
how deeply he was bound by the Stygian law, determined at all hazards to make his escape. So
taking horse one morning early, as he luckily lived near the Prato gate, in that direction
he went off. His departure was soon known; the creditors were all in a bustle; the magistrates
were applied to, and the officers of justice, along with a great part of the populace, were
dispatched in pursuit. Roderigo had hardly proceeded a mile before he heard this hue and cry,
and the pursuers were soon so close at his heels that the only resource he had left was to
abandon the highroad and take to the open country, with the hope of concealing himself in the
fields. But finding himself unable to make way over the hedges and ditches, he left his horse
and took to his heels, traversing fields of vines and canes, until he reached Peretola, where
he entered the house of Matteo del Bricca, a labourer of Giovanna del Bene. Finding him at
home, for he was busily providing fodder for his cattle, our hero earnestly entreated him to
save him from the hands of his adversaries close behind, who would infallibly starve him to
death in a dungeon, engaging that if Matteo would give him refuge, he would make him one of
the richest men alive, and afford him such proofs of it before he took his leave as would convince
him of the truth of what he said; and if he failed to do this, he was quite content that Matteo
himself should deliver him into the hands of his enemies.

Now Matteo, although a rustic, was a man of courage, and concluding that he could not lose
anything by the speculation, he gave him his hand and agreed to save him. He then thrust our
hero under a heap of rubbish, completely enveloping him in weeds; so that when his pursuers
arrived they found themselves quite at a loss, nor could they extract from Matteo the least
information as to his appearance. In this dilemma there was nothing left for them but to proceed
in the pursuit, which they continued for two days, and then returned, jaded and disappointed,
to Florence. In the meanwhile, Matteo drew our hero from his hiding-place, and begged him to
fulfil his engagement. To this his friend Roderigo replied: “I confess, brother, that I am
under great obligations to you, and I mean to return them. To leave no doubt upon your mind,
I will inform you who I am;” and he proceeded to acquaint him with all the particulars of the
affair: how he had come into the world, and married, and run away. He next described to his
preserver the way in which he might become rich, which was briefly as follows: As soon as Matteo
should hear of some lady in the neighbourhood being said to be possessed, he was to conclude
that it was Roderigo himself who had taken possession of her; and he gave him his word, at
the same time, that he would never leave her until Matteo should come and conjure him to depart.
In this way he might obtain what sum he pleased from the lady’s friends for the price of exorcizing
her; and having mutually agreed upon this plan, Roderigo disappeared.

Not many days elapsed before it was reported in Florence that the daughter of Messer Ambrogio
Amedei, a lady married to Buonajuto Tebalducci, was possessed by the devil. Her relations did
not fail to apply every means usual on such occasions to expel him, such as making her wear
upon her head St. Zanobi’s cap, and the cloak of St. John of Gualberto; but these had only
the effect of making Roderigo laugh. And to convince them that it was really a spirit that
possessed her, and that it was no flight of the imagination, he made the young lady talk Latin,
hold a philosophical dispute, and reveal the frailties of many of her acquaintance. He particularly
accused a certain friar of having introduced a lady into his monastery in male attire, to the
no small scandal of all who heard it, and the astonishment of the brotherhood. Messer Ambrogio
found it impossible to silence him, and began to despair of his daughter’s cure. But the news
reaching Matteo, he lost no time in waiting upon Ambrogio, assuring him of his daughter’s recovery
on condition of his paying him five hundred florins, with which to purchase a farm at Peretola.
To this Messer Ambrogio consented; and Matteo immediately ordered a number of masses to be
said, after which he proceeded with some unmeaning ceremonies calculated to give solemnity
to his task. Then approaching the young lady, he whispered in her ear: “Roderigo, it is Matteo
that is come. So do as we agreed upon, and get out.” Roderigo replied: “It is all well; but
you have not asked enough to make you a rich man. So when I depart I will take possession of
the daughter of Charles, king of Naples, and I will not leave her till you come. You may then
demand whatever you please for your reward; and mind that you never trouble me again.” And
when he had said this, he went out of the lady, to the no small delight and amazement of the
whole city of Florence.

It was not long again before the accident that had happened to the daughter of the king of
Naples began to be buzzed about the country, and all the monkish remedies having been found
to fail, the king, hearing of Matteo, sent for him from Florence. On arriving at Naples, Matteo,
after a few ceremonies, performed the cure. Before leaving the princess, however, Roderigo
said: “You see, Matteo, I have kept my promise and made a rich man of you, and I owe you nothing
now. So, henceforward you will take care to keep out of my way, lest as I have hitherto done
you some good, just the contrary should happen to you in future.” Upon this Matteo thought
it best to return to Florence, after receiving fifty thousand ducats from his majesty, in order
to enjoy his riches in peace, and never once imagined that Roderigo would come in his way again.
But in this he was deceived; for he soon heard that a daughter of Louis, king of France, was
possessed by an evil spirit, which disturbed our friend Matteo not a little, thinking of his
majesty’s great authority and of what Roderigo had said. Hearing of Matteo’s great skill, and
finding no other remedy, the king dispatched a messenger for him, whom Matteo contrived to
send back with a variety of excuses. But this did not long avail him; the king applied to the
Florentine council, and our hero was compelled to attend. Arriving with no very pleasant sensations
at Paris, he was introduced into the royal presence, when he assured his majesty that though
it was true he had acquired some fame in the course of his demoniac practice, he could by no
means always boast of success, and that some devils were of such a desperate character as not
to pay the least attention to threats, enchantments, or even the exorcisms of religion itself.
He would, nevertheless, do his majesty’s pleasure, entreating at the same time to be held excused
if it should happen to prove an obstinate case. To this the king made answer, that be the case
what it might, he would certainly hang him if he did not succeed. It is impossible to describe
poor Matteo’s terror and perplexity on hearing these words; but at length mustering courage,
he ordered the possessed princess to be brought into his presence. Approaching as usual close
to her ear, he conjured Roderigo in the most humble terms, by all he had ever done for him,
not to abandon him in such a dilemma, but to show some sense of gratitude for past services
and to leave the princess. “Ah! thou traitorous villain!” cried Roderigo, “hast thou, indeed,
ventured to meddle in this business? Dost thou boast thyself a rich man at my expense? I will
now convince the world and thee of the extent of my power, both to give and to take away. I
shall have the pleasure of seeing thee hanged before thou leavest this place.” Poor Matteo
finding there was no remedy, said nothing more, but, like a wise man, set his head to work
in order to discover some other means of expelling the spirit; for which purpose he said to
the king, “Sire, it is as I feared: there are certain spirits of so malignant a character that
there is no keeping any terms with them, and this is one of them. However, I will make a last
attempt, and I trust that it will succeed according to our wishes. If not, I am in your majesty’s
power, and I hope you will take compassion on my innocence. In the first place, I have to entreat
that your majesty will order a large stage to be erected in the centre of the great square,
such as will admit the nobility and clergy of the whole city. The stage ought to be adorned
with all kinds of silks and with cloth of gold, and with an altar raised in the middle. Tomorrow
morning I would have your majesty, with your full train of lords and ecclesiastics in attendance,
seated in order and in magnificent array, as spectators of the scene at the said place. There,
after having celebrated solemn mass, the possessed princess must appear; but I have in particular
to entreat that on one side of the square may be stationed a band of men with drums, trumpets,
horns, tambours, bagpipes, cymbals, and kettle-drums, and all other kinds of instruments that
make the most infernal noise. Now, when I take my hat off, let the whole band strike up, and
approach with the most horrid uproar towards the stage. This, along with a few other secret
remedies which I shall apply, will surely compel the spirit to depart.”

These preparations were accordingly made by the royal command; and when the day, being Sunday
morning, arrived, the stage was seen crowded with people of rank and the square with the people.
Mass was celebrated, and the possessed princess conducted between two bishops, with a train
of nobles, to the spot. Now, when Roderigo beheld so vast a concourse of people, together with
all this awful preparation, he was almost struck dumb with astonishment, and said to himself,
“I wonder what that cowardly wretch is thinking of doing now? Does he imagine I have never
seen finer things than these in the regions above--ay! and more horrid things below? However,
I will soon make him repent it, at all events.” Matteo then approaching him, besought him to
come out; but Roderigo replied, “Oh, you think you have done a fine thing now! What do you
mean to do with all this trumpery? Can you escape my power, think you, in this way, or elude
the vengeance of the king? Thou poltroon villain, I will have thee hanged for this!” And as
Matteo continued the more to entreat him, his adversary still vilified him in the same strain.
So Matteo, believing there was no time to be lost, made the sign with his hat, when all the
musicians who had been stationed there for the purpose suddenly struck up a hideous din, and
ringing a thousand peals, approached the spot. Roderigo pricked up his ears at the sound, quite
at a loss what to think, and rather in a perturbed tone of voice he asked Matteo what it meant.
To this the latter returned, apparently much alarmed: “Alas! dear Roderigo, it is your wife;
she is coming for you!” It is impossible to give an idea of the anguish of Roderigo’s mind
and the strange alteration which his feelings underwent at that name. The moment the name of
“wife” was pronounced, he had no longer presence of mind to consider whether it were probable,
or even possible, that it could be her. Without replying a single word, he leaped out and fled
in the utmost terror, leaving the lady to herself, and preferring rather to return to his infernal
abode and render an account of his adventures, than run the risk of any further sufferings
and vexations under the matrimonial yoke. And thus Belphagor again made his appearance in the
infernal domains, bearing ample testimony to the evils introduced into a household by a wife;
while Matteo, on his part, who knew more of the matter than the devil, returned triumphantly
home, not a little proud of the victory he had achieved.

THE DEVIL AND TOM WALKER[2]

BY WASHINGTON IRVING

    [2] Courtesy of G. P. Putnam’s Sons, Publishers, New York &
    London. He now looked
around, and found most of the tall trees marked with the name of some
great man of the colony, and all more or less scored by the ax. In this neighbourhood I am known by the
name of the black woodsman. He even felt something like
gratitude towards the black woodman, who, he considered, had done him
a kindness. Scarcely any had any special business to detain them at
the hotel, and yet none ventured to entertain the mere idea of
departure, even at a distant day. On the other hand, after we had
slept for some time late on mornings, sat long at dinner, sung and
played long of evenings, and drank, chatted, and laughed long of
nights, the magic tie which bound us to this hotel seemed to have
woven new chains around us.

This intoxication, however, was soon to be put an end to, perhaps for our good. On the seventh
day of our rejoicings, a Sunday, our friend Von Natas was not to be found anywhere. The waiters
gave as his apology a short journey; he could not return before sunset, but would certainly
be in time for tea and supper.

The enjoyment of his society had already become such a necessity, that this piece of information
made us helpless and ill at ease.

The conversation turned naturally on our absent friend and his striking, brilliant apparition
among us. It was strange, but I could not get it out of my head that I had already met with
him in my walk through life, but in a different shape; and, absurd as the idea was, it still
forced itself irresistibly on my mind once and again. I called to mind, from years long gone
by, the recollection of a man who in his whole demeanour, but more especially in his glance,
had the greatest resemblance to him. The one of whom I now speak was a foreign physician, who
occasionally visited my native town, and there lived at first in great retirement, though he
soon found a crowd of worshippers collected around him. The thought of this man was always
a melancholy one, for it was asserted that some serious misfortune always followed his visits;
still I could not shake off the idea that Natas resembled him strikingly, in fact that he was
one and the same person.

I mentioned to my next neighbour at table the idea that incessantly haunted me, and how unpleasant
it was to identify so horrible a being as the stranger who had so afflicted my native city,
with our mutual friend who had so fully gained my esteem and affection; but it will seem still
more incredible when I assure my readers that all my neighbours were full of precisely the
same idea, and that all fancied they had seen our agreeable companion in some entirely different
shape.

“You are enough to make one downright melancholy,” said Baroness von Thingen, who sat near
me; “you make our friend Natas out to be the Wandering Jew, or God knows what more!”

A little old man, a professor in Tibsingen, who had joined our circle some days before, and
passed his time in quiet, silent enjoyment, enlivened by an occasional deep conference with
the Rhine wine, had kept smiling to himself during what he called our “comparative anatomy,”
and twirling his huge snuff-box between his fingers with such skilful rapidity, that it revolved
like a coach-wheel.

“I cannot longer refrain from a remark I wished to make,” exclaimed he at last. “Under your
favour, gracious lady, I do not look upon him as being precisely the Wandering Jew, but still
as being a very strange mortal. As long as he was present, the thought would, it is true, now
and then flash up in my mind, ‘You have seen this man before, but pray where was it?’ but these
recollections were driven away as if by magic whenever he fastened upon me those dark wandering
eyes of his.”

“So was it with me--and with me--and with me,” exclaimed we all in astonishment.

“Hem! hem!” smiled the Professor. “Even now the scales seem to fall from my eyes, and I see
that he is the very same person I saw in Stuttgart twelve years ago.”

“What, you have seen him then, and in what circumstances?” asked Lady von Thingen eagerly,
and almost blushed at the eagerness she displayed.

The Professor took a pinch of snuff, shook the superfluous grains off his waistcoat, and answered--“It
may be now about twelve years since I was forced by a law-suit to spend some months in Stuttgart.
I lived at one of the best hotels, and generally dined with a large company at the table d’hôte.
Once upon a time I made my first appearance at table after a lapse of several days, during
which I had been forced to keep my room. The company were talking very eagerly about a certain
Signor Barighi, who for some time past had been delighting the other visitors with his lively
wit, and his fluency in all languages. All were unanimous in his praise, but they could not
exactly agree as to his occupation; some making him out a diplomatist, others a teacher of
languages, a third party a distinguished political exile, and a fourth a spy of the police.
The door opened, all seemed silent, even confused, at having carried on the dispute in so loud
a tone; I judged that the person spoken of must be among us, and saw--”

“Who, pray?”

“Under favour, the same person who has amused us so agreeably for some days past. There was
nothing supernatural in this, to be sure, but listen a moment; for two days Signor Barighi,
as the stranger was called, had given a new relish to our meals by his brilliant conversation,
when mine host interrupted us suddenly--‘Gentlemen,’ said he, ‘prepare yourself for an unique
entertainment which will be provided for you tomorrow.’

“We asked what this meant, and a grey headed captain, who had presided at the hotel table many
years, informed us of the joke as follows--Exactly opposite this dining room, an old bachelor
lives, solitary and alone, in a large deserted house; he is a retired Counsellor of State--lives
on a handsome premium, and has an enormous fortune besides. He is, however, a downright fool,
and has some of the strangest peculiarities; thus, for instance, he often gives himself entertainments
on a scale of extravagant luxury. He orders covers for twelve, from the hotel, he has excellent
wines in his cellar, and one or the other of our waiters has the honour to attend table. You
think, perhaps, that at these feasts he feeds the hungry, and gives drink to the thirsty--no
such thing; on the chairs lie old yellow leaves of parchment, from the family record, and the
old hunks is as jovial as if he had the merriest set of fellows around him; he talks and laughs
with them, and the whole thing is said to be so fearful to look upon, that the youngest waiters
are always sent over, for whoever has been to one such supper will enter the deserted house
no more.

“The day before yesterday he had a supper, and our new waiter, Frank, there, calls heaven and
earth to witness that nobody shall ever induce him to go there a second time. The next day
after the entertainment comes the Counsellor’s second freak. Early in the morning he leaves
the city, and comes back the morning after; not, however, to his own house, which during this
time is fast locked and bolted, but into this hotel. Here he treats people he has been in the
habit of seeing for a whole year, as strangers; dines, and afterwards places himself at one
of the windows, and examines his own house across the way from top to bottom.

“‘Who does that house opposite belong to?’ he then asks the host.

“The other regularly bows and answers, ‘It belongs to the Counsellor of State, Hasentreffer,
at your Excellency’s service.’”

“But, Professor,” here observed I, “what has this silly Hasentreffer of yours to do with our
Natas?”

“A moment’s patience, Doctor,” answered the Professor, “the light will soon break in upon you.
Hasentreffer then examines the house, and learns that it belongs to Hasentreffer. ‘Oh, what!’
he asks, ‘the same that was a student with me at Tibsingen’--then throws open the window, stretches
his powdered head out, and calls out--‘Ha-asentreffer--Ha-asentreffer!’

“Of course no one answers, but he remarks: ‘The old fellow would never forgive me if I was
not to look in on him for a moment,’ then takes up his hat and cane, unlocks his own house,
goes in, and all goes on after as before.

“All of us,” the Professor proceeded in his story, “were greatly astonished at this singular
story, and highly delighted at the idea of the next day’s merriment. Signor Barighi, however,
obliged us to promise that we would not betray him, as he said he was preparing a capital joke
to play off on the Counsellor.

“We all met at the table d’hôte earlier than usual, and besieged the windows. An old tumble
down carriage, drawn by two blind steeds, came crawling down the street; it stopped before
the hotel. There’s Hasentreffer, there’s Hasentreffer, was echoed by every mouth; and we were
filled with extravagant merriment when we saw the little man get out, neatly powdered, dressed
in an iron grey surtout with a huge meerschaum in hand. An escort of at least ten servants
followed him in, and in this guise he entered the dining-room.

“We sat down at once. I have seldom laughed as much as I did then; for the old chap insisted,
with the greatest coolness, that he came direct from Carrel, and that he had six days before
been extremely well entertained at the Swan Inn at Frankfort. Barighi must have disappeared
before the dessert, for when the Counsellor left the table, and the other guests, full of curiosity,
imitated his example, Barighi was nowhere to be seen.

“The Counsellor took his seat at the window; we all followed his example and watched his movements.
The house opposite seemed desolate and uninhabited. Grass grew on the threshold, the shutters
were closed, and on some of them birds seemed to have built their nests.

“‘A fine house that, opposite,’ said the old man to our host, who kept standing behind him
in the third position. ‘Who does it belong to?’

“‘To the Counsellor of State, Hasentreffer, at your Excellency’s service.’

“‘Ah, indeed! that must be the same one that was a fellow-student with me,’ exclaimed he; ‘he
would never forgive me if I was not to inform him that I was here.’ He opened the window,--‘Ha-asentreffer--Hasentreffer!’
cried he, in a hoarse voice. But who can paint our terror, when opposite, in the empty house,
which we knew was firmly locked and bolted, a window-shutter was slowly raised, a window opened,
and out of it peered the Counsellor of State, Hasentreffer, in his chintz morning-gown and
white nightcap, under which a few thin grey locks were visible; this, this exactly, was his
usual morning costume. Down to the minutest wrinkle on the pallid visage, the figure across
the street was precisely the same as the one that stood by our side. But a panic seized us,
when the figure in the morning-gown called out across the street, in just the same hoarse voice,
‘What do you want? who are you calling to, hey?’

“‘Are you the Counsellor of State, Hasentreffer?’ said the one on our side of the way, pale
as death, in a trembling voice, and quaking as he leaned against the window for support.

“‘I’m the man,’ squeaked the other, and nodded his head in a friendly way; ‘have you any commands
for me?’

“‘But I’m the man too,’ said our friend mournfully, ‘how can it be possible?’

“‘You are mistaken, my dear friend,’ answered he across the way, ‘you are the thirteenth, be
good enough just to step across the street to my house, and let me twist your neck for you!
it is by no means painful.’

“‘Waiter! my hat and stick,’ said the Counsellor, pale as death, and his voice escaped in mournful
tones from his hollow chest. ‘The devil is in my house and seeks my soul; a pleasant evening
to you, gentlemen,’ added he, turning to us with a polite bow, and thereupon left the room.

“‘What does this mean?’ we asked each other; ‘are we all beside ourselves?’

“The gentleman in the morning-gown kept looking quietly out of the window, while our good silly
old friend crossed the street at his usual formal pace. At the front-door, he pulled a huge
bunch of keys out of his pocket, unlocked the heavy creaking door--he of the morning-gown looking
carelessly on, and walked in.

“The latter now withdrew from the window, and we saw him go forward to meet our acquaintance
at the room-door.

“Our host and the ten waiters were all pale with fear, and trembled. ‘Gentlemen,’ said the
former, ‘God pity poor Hasentreffer, for one of those two must be the devil in human shape.’
We laughed at our host, and tried to persuade ourselves that it was a joke of Barighi’s; but
our host assured us that no one could have obtained access to the house except he was in possession
of the Counsellor’s very artificially contrived keys; also, that Barighi was seated at table
not ten minutes before the prodigy happened; how then could he have disguised himself so completely
in so short a time, even supposing him to have known how to unlock a strange house? He added,
that the two were so fearfully like one another, that he who had lived in the neighbourhood
for twenty years could not distinguish the true one from the counterfeit. ‘But, for God’s sake,
gentlemen, do you not hear the horrid shrieks opposite?’

“We rushed to the window--terrible and fearful voices rang across from the empty house; we
fancied we saw the old Counsellor, pursued by his image in the morning-gown, hurry past the
window repeatedly. On a sudden all was quiet.

“We gazed on each other; the boldest among us proposed to cross over to the house--we all agreed
to it. We crossed the street--the huge bell at the old man’s door was rung thrice, but nothing
could be heard in answer; we sent to the police and to a blacksmith’s--the door was broken
open, the whole tide of anxious visitors poured up the wide silent staircase--all the doors
were fastened; at length one was opened. In a splendid apartment, the Counsellor, his iron-grey
frock-coat torn to pieces, his neatly dressed hair in horrible disorder, lay dead, strangled,
on the sofa.

“Since that time no traces of Barighi have been found, neither in Stuttgart nor elsewhere.”

ST. JOHN’S EVE[3]

BY NIKOLÁI VASILÉVICH GÓGOL

    [3] From St. John’s Eve and Other Stories, translated by
    Isabel F. Hapgood from the Russian of N. V. Gógol. But that same young gentleman in the pea-green caftan, whom
I have mentioned, and one of whose tales you have already read, I
think, came from Poltava, bringing with him a little book, and,
opening it in the middle, shows it to us. When he used to begin on a tale, you wouldn’t
stir from the spot all day, but keep on listening.

    [4] Poppy-seeds cooked in honey, and dried in square cakes. These people
laugh at everything you tell them. Such incredulity has spread abroad
in the world! What then? (Why, may God and the Holy Virgin cease to
love me if it is not possible that even you will not believe me!) Once
he said something about witches; ... What then? But let them just dream about something, and
they won’t even tell what it was! There’s no use in talking about
them! There was not an enclosure
or a decent shed to shelter animals or wagons.
Anything was possible.

    [5] Wooden house.

    [6] Sir. It surprised him more than the blow
of a pestle on the wall, with which, in our days, the muzhik generally
drives out his intoxication for lack of fusees and powder.

    [8] Elder.

    [9] Upper garment in Little Russia. So there was an end of their kissing. So, one day, Pidórka burst into tears,
and clutched the hand of her Ivas. “Ivas, my dear!

Petró stood petrified, without moving from the spot, when the innocent child lisped out Pidórka’s
words to him. But it may not be. The evil eye has seen us. I will have a wedding, too, dear
little fish, I, too; but no ecclesiastics will be at that wedding. But what am I? Of whom,
to whom, am I complaining? Petró shuddered. “He, he, he! yes, how it shines!” he roared, shaking
out ducats into his hand: “he, he, he! and how it jingles! And I only ask one thing for a whole
pile of such shiners.”--“It is the Evil One!” exclaimed Petró:--“Give them here! I am ready
for anything!” They struck hands upon it. Delay not. I will await thee at midnight in the Bear’s
ravine.”

I do not believe that chickens await the hour when the woman brings their corn, with as much
anxiety as Petrus awaited the evening. It gets dusky, and more dusky, and at last quite dark.
At last! Petró looked about him: he had never chanced to come there before. Here Basavriuk halted.

“Do you see, before you stand three hillocks? He approached the three hillocks--where were
the flowers? He saw nothing. The wild steppe-grass darkled around, and stifled everything in
its luxuriance. But the lightning flashed; and before him stood a whole bed of flowers, all
wonderful, all strange: and there were also the simple fronds of fern. Petró doubted his senses,
and stood thoughtfully before them, with both hands upon his sides.

“What prodigy is this? one can see these weeds ten times in a day: what marvel is there about
them? was not devil’s-face laughing at me?”

Behold! the tiny flower-bud crimsons, and moves as though alive. It is a marvel, in truth.
It moves, and grows larger and larger, and flashes like a burning coal. The tiny star flashes
up, something bursts softly, and the flower opens before his eyes like a flame, lighting the
others about it. “Now is the time,” thought Petró, and extended his hand. He sees hundreds
of shaggy hands reach from behind him, also for the flower; and there is a running about from
place to place, in the rear. “See here, Petró: a beauty will stand before you in a moment;
do whatever she commands; if not--you are lost for ever.” Then he parted the thorn-bush with
a knotty stick, and before him stood a tiny izbá, on chicken’s legs, as they say.

“Throw it away,” she said, giving it back to Petró. Ducats, precious stones in chests and kettles,
were piled in heaps beneath the very spot they stood on. Misshaped monsters flew past him in
herds. Collecting all his strength, he set out to run.

Korzh saw the sacks,--and was mollified. “Such a Petrus, quite unheard of! yes, and did I not
love him? Was he not to me as my own son?” And the old fellow carried on his fiction until
it reduced him to tears. They did not look like human beings. They are not to be compared with
the disguises which we have at our weddings nowadays. What do they do now? Why, imitate gipsies
and Moscow pedlars. All upon them glowed like a conflagration ... and then they began to joke
and play pranks.... Well, then away with the saints!

An amusing thing happened to my grandfather’s aunt, who was at this wedding.

Pidórka and Petrus began to live like a gentleman and lady. In fact, a month had not passed,
and no one would have recognized Petrus. Why, what had happened to him? God knows. He sits
in one spot, and says no word to any one: he thinks continually, and seems to be trying to
recall something. When Pidórka succeeds in getting him to speak, he seems to forget himself,
carries on a conversation, and even grows cheerful; but if he inadvertently glances at the
sacks, “Stop, stop! I have forgotten,” he cries, and again plunges into revery, and again strives
to recall something. Sometimes when he has sat long in a place, it seems to him as though it
were coming, just coming back to mind, ... and again all fades away. It seems as if he is sitting
in the tavern: they bring him vodka; vodka stings him; vodka is repulsive to him. Some one
comes along, and strikes him on the shoulder; ... but beyond that everything is veiled in darkness
before him. The perspiration streams down his face, and he sits exhausted in the same place.

What did not Pidórka do? He sat in the middle of the cottage as though nailed to the spot,
with the sacks of gold at his feet. Often, rising wildly from his seat, he gesticulates violently,
fixes his eyes on something as though desirous of catching it: his lips move as though desirous
of uttering some long-forgotten word--and remain speechless. Fury takes possession of him:
he gnaws and bites his hands like a man half crazy, and in his vexation tears out his hair
by the handful, until, calming down, he falls into forgetfulness, as it were, and again begins
to recall, and is again seized with fury and fresh tortures.... What visitation of God is this?
No blush, no smile: she was thin and worn with grief, and had wept her bright eyes away. This
was St. John’s Eve, as it chanced. Petró lay insensible on the bench, and did not observe the
new-comer. The hatchet penetrated the oaken door two vershok.[12] The old woman disappeared;
and a child of seven in a white blouse, with covered head, stood in the middle of the cottage....
The sheet flew off.

    [12] Three inches and a half.

I do not remember what happened next.

When there is nothing moving in heaven except the owl, as he flappeth along lazily; or the
magician, as he rideth on his infernal broomstick, whistling through the air like the arrows
of a Yorkshire archer. His ideas were innate--or otherwise. He believed in George of Trebizond--he
believed in Bossarion.

    [13] Φρένες. With
him Sauternes was to Médoc what Catullus was to Homer.
In a corner of the apartment stood the bed of the metaphysician. An
array of curtains, together with a canopy à la grecque, gave it an
air at once classic and comfortable. In the corner diagonally
opposite, appeared, in direct family communion, the properties of the
kitchen and the bibliothèque. “A
clever book that of yours, upon my honour.

“Hic-cup!--e-h?” said the philosopher.

THE PRINTER’S DEVIL

As I was sitting in my armchair and preparing an essay on the Devil in literature, sleep overpowered
me; the pen fell from my hands, and my head reclined upon the desk. I had been thinking so
much about the Devil in my waking hours, that the same idea pursued me after I had fallen asleep.
I heard a gentle rap at the door, and having bawled out as usual, “Come in,” a little gentleman
entered, wrapped in a large blue cloth cloak, with a slouched hat, and goggles over his eyes.
After bowing and scraping with considerable ceremony, he took off his hat, and threw his cloak
over the back of a chair, when I immediately perceived that my visitor was no mortal. His face
was hideously ugly; the skin appearing very much like wet paper, and the forehead covered with
those cabalistic signs whose wondrous significance is best known to those who correct the press.
On the end of his long hooked nose there seemed to me to be growing, like a carbuncle, the
first letter of the alphabet, glittering with ink and ready to print. I observed, also, that
each of his fingers and toes, or rather claws, was in the same manner terminated by one of
the letters of the alphabet; and as he slashed round his tail to brush a fly off his nose,
I noticed that the letter Z formed the extremity of that useful member. While I was looking
with no small astonishment and some trepidation at my extraordinary visitor, he took occasion
to inform me that he had taken liberty to call, as he was afraid I might forget him in the
treatise which I was writing--an omission which he assured me would cause him no little mortification.
“In me,” says he, “you behold the prince and patron of printers’ devils. My province is to
preside over the hell of books; and if you will only take the trouble to accompany me a little
way, I will show you some of the wonders of that world.” As my imagination had lately been
much excited by perusing Dante’s Inferno, I was delighted with an adventure which promised
to turn out something like his wonderful journey, and I readily consented to visit my new friend’s
dominions, and we sallied forth together. As we pursued our way, my conductor endeavoured to
give me some information respecting the world I was about to enter, in order to prepare me
for the wonders I should encounter there. “You must know,” remarked he, “that books have souls
as well as men; and the moment any work is published, whether successful or not, its soul appears
in precisely the same form in another world; either in this domain, which is subject to me,
or in a better region, over which I have no control. I have power only to exhibit the place
of punishment for bad books, periodicals, pamphlets, and, in short, publications of every kind.”

We now arrived at the mouth of a cavern, which I did not remember to have ever noticed before,
though I had repeatedly passed the spot in my walks. It looked to me more like the entrance
to a coalmine than anything else, as the sides were entirely black. Upon examining them more
closely, I found that they were covered with a black fluid which greatly resembled printer’s
ink, and which seemed to corrode and wear away the rocks of the cavern wherever it touched
them. “We have lately received a large supply of political publications,” said my companion;
“and hell is perfectly saturated with their maliciousness. We carry on a profitable trade upon
the earth, by retailing this ink to the principal political editors. Unfortunately, it is not
found to answer very well for literary publications, though they have tried it with considerable
success in printing the London Quarterly and several of the other important reviews.”

The cavern widened as we advanced, and we came presently into a vast open plain, which was
bounded on one side by a wall so high that it seemed to reach the very heavens. As we approached
the wall I observed a vast gateway before us, closed up by folding doors. The gates opened
at our approach, and we entered. I found myself in a warm sandy valley, bounded on one side
by a steep range of mountains. A feeble light shone upon it, much like that of a sick chamber,
and the air seemed confined and stifling like that of the abode of illness. My ears were assailed
by a confused whining noise, as if all the litters of new-born puppies, kittens with their
eyes unopened, and babes just come to light, in the whole world, were brought into one spot,
and were whelping, mewing, and squalling at once. I turned in mute wonder to my guide for explanation;
and he informed me that I now beheld the destined abode of all still-born and abortive publications;
and the infantine noises which I heard were only their feeble wailing for the miseries they
had endured in being brought into the world. I now saw what the feebleness of the light had
prevented my observing before, that the soil was absolutely covered with books of every size
and shape, from the little diamond almanac up to the respectable quarto. I saw folios there.
These books were crawling about and tumbling over each other like blind whelps, uttering, at
the same time, the most mournful cries. I observed one, however, which remained quite still,
occasionally groaning a little, and appeared like an overgrown toad oppressed with its own
heaviness. I drew near, and read upon the back, “Resignation, a Novel.” The cover flew open,
and the title-page immediately began to address me. I walked off, however, as fast as possible,
only distinguishing a few words about “the injustice and severity of critics;” “bad taste of
the public;” “very well considering;” “first effort;” “feminine mind,” &c. &c. I presently
discovered a very important-looking little book, stalking about among the rest in a great passion,
kicking the others out of the way, and swearing like a trooper; till at length, apparently
exhausted with its efforts, it sunk down to rise no more. “Ah ha!” exclaimed my little diabolical
friend, “here is a new comer; let’s see who he is;” and coming up, he turned it over with his
foot so that we could see the back of it, upon which was printed “The Monikins, by the Author
of, &c. &c.” I noticed that the book had several marks across it, as if some one had been flogging
the unfortunate work. “It is only the marks of the scourge,” said my companion, “which the
critics have used rather more severely, I think, than was necessary.” I expected, after all
the passion I had seen, and the great importance of feeling, arrogance, and vanity the little
work had manifested, that it would have some pert remarks to make to us; but it was so much
exhausted that it could not say a word. At the bottom of the valley was a small pond of a milky
hue, from which there issued a perfume very much like the smell of bread and butter. An immense
number of thin, prettily bound manuscript books were soaking in this pond of milk, all of which,
I was informed, were Young Ladies’ Albums, which it was necessary to souse in the slough, to
prevent them from stealing passages from the various works about them. As soon as I heard what
they were, I ran away with all my speed, having a mortal dread of these books.

We had now traversed the valley, and, approaching the barrier of mountains, we found a passage
cut through, which greatly resembled the Pausilipo, near Naples; it was closed on the side
towards the valley, only with a curtain of white paper, upon which were printed the names of
the principal reviews, which my conductor assured me were enough to prevent any of the unhappy
works we had seen from coming near the passage.

As we advanced through the mountains, occasional gleams of light appeared before us, and immediately
vanished, leaving us in darkness. My guide, however, seemed to be well acquainted with the
way, and we went on fearlessly till we emerged into an open field, lighted up by constant flashes
of lightning, which glared from every side; the air was hot, and strongly impregnated with
sulphur. “Each department of my dominions,” said the Devil, “receives its light from the works
which are sent there. You are now surrounded by the glittering but evanescent coruscations
of the more recent novels. This department of hell was never very well supplied till quite
lately, though Fielding, Smollett, Maturin, and Godwin, did what they could for us. Our greatest
benefactors have been Disraeli, Bulwer, and Victor Hugo; and this glare of light, so painful
to our eyes, proceeds chiefly from their books.” There was a tremendous noise like the rioting
of an army of drunken men, with horrible cries and imprecations, and fiend-like laughing, which
made my blood curdle; and such a scrambling and fighting among the books, as I never saw before.
I could not imagine at first what could be the cause of this, till I discovered at last a golden
hill rising up like a cone in the midst of the plane, with just room enough for one book on
the summit; and I found that the novels were fighting like so many devils for the occupation
of this place. One work, however, had gained possession of it, and seemed to maintain its hold
with a strength and resolution which bade defiance to the rest. I could not at first make out
the name of this book, which seemed to stand upon its golden throne like the Prince of Hell;
but presently the whole arch of the heavens glared with new brilliancy, and the magic name
of Vivian Grey flashed from the book in letters of scorching light. I was much afraid, however,
that Vivian would not long retain his post; for I saw Pelham and Peregrine Pickle, and the
terrible Melmoth with his glaring eyes, coming together to the assault, when a whirlwind seized
them all four and carried them away to a vast distance, leaving the elevation vacant for some
other competitor. “There is no peace to the wicked, you see,” said my Asmodeus. “These books
are longing for repose, and they can get none on account of the insatiable vanity of their
authors, whose desire for distinction made them careless of the sentiments they expressed and
the principles they advocated. The great characteristic of works of this stamp is action, intense,
painful action. They have none of that beautiful serenity which shines in Scott and Edgeworth;
and they are condemned to illustrate, by an eternity of contest here, the restless spirit with
which they are inspired.”

While I was looking on with fearful interest in the mad combat before me, the horizon seemed
to be darkened, and a vast cloud rose up in the image of a gigantic eagle, whose wings stretched
from the east to the west till he covered the firmament. In his talons he carried an open book,
at the sight of which the battle around me was calmed; the lightnings ceased to flash, and
there was an awful stillness. Then suddenly there glared from the book a sheet of fire, which
rose in columns a thousand feet high, and filled the empyrean with intense light; the pillars
of flame curling and wreathing themselves into monstrous letters, till they were fixed in one
terrific glare, and I read--“BYRON.” Even my companion quailed before the awful light, and
I covered my face with my hands. When I withdrew them, the cloud and the book had vanished,
and the contest was begun again--“You have seen the Prince of this division of hell,” said
my guide.

We now began rapidly to descend into the bowels of the earth; and, after sinking some thousand
feet, I found myself on terra firma again, and walking a little way, we came to a gate of massive
ice, over which was written in vast letters--“My heritage is despair.” We passed through, and
immediately found ourselves in a vast basin of lead, which seemed to meet the horizon on every
side. A bright light shone over the whole region; but it was not like the genial light of the
sun. It chilled me through; and every ray that fell upon me seemed like the touch of ice. The
deepest silence prevailed; and though the valley was covered with books, not one moved or uttered
a sound. I drew near to one, and I shivered with intense cold as I read upon it--“Voltaire.”
“Behold,” said the demon, “the hell of infidel books; the light which emanates from them is
the light of reason, and they are doomed to everlasting torpor.” I found it too cold to pursue
my investigations any farther in this region, and I gladly passed on from the leaden gulf of
Infidelity.

I had no sooner passed the barrier which separated this department from the next, than I heard
a confused sound like the quacking of myriads of ducks and geese, and a great flapping of wings;
of which I soon saw the cause. “You are in the hell of newspapers,” said my guide. And sure
enough, when I looked up I saw thousands of newspapers flying about with their great wooden
back-bones, and the padlock dangling like a bobtail at the end, flapping their wings and hawking
at each other like mad. After circling about in the air for a little while, and biting and
tearing each other as much as they could, they plumped down, head first, into a deep black-looking
pool, and were seen no more. “We place these newspapers deeper in hell than the Infidel publications,”
said the Devil; “because they are so much more extensively read, and thereby do much greater
mischief. It is a kind of pest of which there is no end; and we are obliged to allot the largest
portion of our dominions to containing them.”

We now came to an immense pile of a leaden hue, which I found at last to consist of old worn-out
type, which was heaped up to form the wall of the next division. A monstrous u, turned bottom
upwards (in this way ⋂) formed the arch of a gateway through which we passed; and then traversed
a draw-bridge, which was thrown across a river of ink, upon whose banks millions of horrible
little demons were sporting. I presently saw that they were employed in throwing into the black
stream a quantity of books which were heaped up on the shore. As I looked down into the stream,
I saw that they were immediately devoured by the most hideous and disgusting monsters which
were floundering about there. I looked at one book, which had crawled out after being thrown
into the river; it was dripping with filth, but I distinguished on the back the words--Don
Juan. It had hardly climbed up the bank, however, when one of the demons gave it a kick, and
sent it back into the stream, where it was immediately swallowed. On the back of some of the
books which the little imps were tossing in, I saw the name of--Rochester, which showed me
the character of those which were sent into this division of the infernal regions.

Beyond this region rose up a vast chain of mountains, which we were obliged to clamber over.
After toiling for a long time, we reached the summit, and I looked down upon an immense labyrinth
built upon the plain below, in which I saw a great number of large folios, stalking about in
solemn pomp, each followed by a number of small volumes and pamphlets, like so many pages or
footmen watching the beck of their master. “You behold here,” said the demon, “all the false
works upon theology which have been written since the beginning of the Christian era. They
are condemned to wander about to all eternity in the hopeless maze of this labyrinth, each
folio drawing after it all the minor works to which it gave origin.” A faint light shone from
these ponderous tomes; but it was like the shining of a lamp in a thick mist, shorn of its
rays, and illuminating nothing around it. And if my companion had not held a torch before me,
I should not have discerned the outlines of this department of the Infernal world. As my eye
became somewhat accustomed to the feeble light, I discovered beyond the labyrinth a thick mist,
which appeared to rise from some river or lake. “That,” said my companion, “is the distinct
abode of German Metaphysical works, and other treatises of a similar unintelligible character.
They are all obliged to pass through a press; and if there is any sense in them, it is thus
separated from the mass of nonsense in which it is imbedded, and is allowed to escape to a
better world. Very few of the works, however, are found to be materially diminished by passing
through the press.” We had now crossed the plain, and stood near the impenetrable fog, which
rose up like a wall before us. In front of it was the press managed by several ugly little
demons, and surrounded by an immense number of volumes of every size and shape, waiting for
the process which all were obliged to undergo. As I was watching their operations, I saw two
very respectable German folios, with enormous clasps, extended like arms, carrying between
them a little volume, which they were fondling like a pet child with marks of doting affection.
These folios proved to be two of the most abstruse, learned, and incomprehensible of the metaphysical
productions of Germany; and the bantling which they seemed to embrace with so much affection,
was registered on the back--“Records of a School.” I did not find that a single ray of intelligence
had been extracted from either of the two after being subjected to the press. As soon as the
volumes had passed through the operation of yielding up all the little sense they contained,
they plunged into the intense fog, and disappeared for ever.

We next approached the verge of a gulf, which appeared to be bottomless; and there was dreadful
noise, like the war of the elements, and forked flames shooting up from the abyss, which reminded
me of the crater of Vesuvius. “You have now reached the ancient limits of hell,” said the demon,
“and you behold beneath your feet the original chaos on which my domains are founded. But within
a few years we have been obliged to build a yet deeper division beyond the gulf, to contain
a class of books that were unknown in former times.” “Pray, what class can be found,” I asked,
“worse than those which I have already seen, and for which it appears hell was not bad enough?”
“They are American re-prints of English publications,” replied he, “and they are generally
works of such a despicable character, that they would have found their way here without being
republished; but even where the original work was good, it is so degenerated by the form under
which it re-appears in America, that its merit is entirely lost, and it is only fit for the
seventh and lowest division of hell.”

I now perceived a bridge spanning over the gulf, with an arch that seemed as lofty as the firmament.
We hastily passed over, and found that the farthest extremity of the bridge was closed by a
gate, over which was written three words. “They are the names of the three furies who reign
over this division,” said my guide. I of course did not contradict him; but the words looked
very much like some I had seen before; and the more I examined them, the more difficult was
it to convince myself that the inscription was not the same thing as the sign over a certain
publishing house in Philadelphia.

“These,” said the Devil, “are called the three furies of the hell of books; not from the mischief
they do there to the works about them, but for the unspeakable wrong they did to the same works
upon the earth, by re-printing them in their hideous brown paper editions.” As soon as they
beheld me, they rushed towards me with such piteous accents and heart-moving entreaties, that
I would intercede to save them from their torment, that I was moved with the deepest compassion,
and began to ask my conductor if there were no relief for them. But he hurried me away, assuring
me that they only wanted to sell me some of their infernal editions, and the idea of owning
any such property was so dreadful that it woke me up directly.

THE DEVIL’S MOTHER-IN-LAW[16]

BY FERNÁN CABALLERO

    [16] From Spanish Fairy Tales. By Fernán Caballero.
    Translated by J. H. Ingram. (Philadelphia, J. B. Lippincott
    Co., 1881. By permission of the Publishers.)

In a town, named Villagañanes, there was once an old widow uglier than the sergeant of Utrera,
who was considered as ugly as ugly could be; drier than hay; older than foot-walking, and more
yellow than the jaundice. Moreover, she had so crossgrained a disposition that Job himself
could not have tolerated her. She had been nicknamed “Mother Holofernes,” and she had only
to put her head out of doors to put all the lads to flight. Mother Holofernes was as clean
as a new pin, and as industrious as an ant, and in these respects suffered no little vexation
on account of her daughter Panfila, who was, on the contrary, so lazy, and such an admirer
of the Quietists, that an earthquake would not move her. So it came to pass that Mother Holofernes
began quarrelling with her daughter almost from the day that the girl was born.

“You are,” she said, “as flaccid as Dutch tobacco, and it would take a couple of oxen to draw
you out of your room. You fly work as you would the pest, and nothing pleases you but the window,
you shameless girl. You are more amorous than Cupid himself, but, if I have any power, you
shall live as close as a nun.”

On hearing all this, Panfila got up, yawned, stretched herself, and turning her back on her
mother, went to the street door. Mother Holofernes, without paying attention to this, began
to sweep with most tremendous energy, accompanying the noise of the broom with a monologue
of this tenor:--

“In my time girls had to work like men.”

The broom gave the accompaniment of shis, shis, shis.

“And lived as secluded as nuns.”

And the broom went shis, shis, shis.

“Now they are a pack of fools.”--Shis, shis.

“Of idlers.”--Shis, shis.

“And think of nothing but husbands.--Shis, shis.

“And are a lot of good-for-nothings.”

The broom following with its chorus.

By this time she had nearly reached the street door, when she saw her daughter making signs
to a youth; and the handle of the broom, as the handiest implement, descended upon the shoulders
of Panfila, and effected the miracle of making her run. Next, Mother Holofernes, grasping the
broom, made for the door; but scarcely had the shadow of her head appeared, than it produced
the customary effect, and the aspirant disappeared so swiftly that it seemed as if he must
have had wings on his feet.

“Drat that fellow!” shouted the mother; “I should like to break all the bones in his body.”

“What for? Why should I not think of getting married?”

“What are you saying? You get married, you fool! not while I live!”

“Why were you married, madam? and my grandmother? and my great grandmother?”

“Nicely I have been repaid for it, by you, you sauce-box! And understand me, that if I chose
to get married, and your grandmother also, and your great grandmother also, I do not intend
that you shall marry; nor my granddaughter, nor my great granddaughter! Do you hear me?”

In these gentle disputes the mother and daughter passed their lives, without any other result
than that the mother grumbled more and more every day, and the daughter became daily more and
more desirous of getting a husband.

Upon one occasion, when Mother Holofernes was doing the washing, and as the lye was on the
point of boiling, she had to call her daughter to help her lift the caldron, in order to pour
its contents on to the tub of clothes. The girl heard her with one ear, but with the other
was listening to a well-known voice which sang in the street:--

    “I would like to love thee,
      Did thy mother let me woo!
    May the demon meddle
      In all she tries to do!”

The sound outside being more attractive for Panfila than the caldron within, she did not hasten
to her mother, but went to the window. Mother Holofernes, meanwhile, seeing that her daughter
did not come, and that time was passing, attempted to lift the caldron by herself, in order
to pour the water upon the linen; and as the good woman was small, and not very strong, it
turned over, and burnt her foot. On hearing the horrible groans Mother Holofernes made, her
daughter went to her.

“Wretch, wretch!” cried the enraged Mother Holofernes to her daughter, “may you love Barabbas!
And as for marrying--may Heaven grant you may marry the Evil One himself!”

Sometime after this accident an aspirant presented himself: he was a little man, young, fair,
red-haired, well-mannered, and had well-furnished pockets. He had not a single fault, and Mother
Holofernes was not able to find any in all her arsenal of negatives. As for Panfila, it wanted
little to send her out of her senses with delight. So the preparations for the wedding were
made, with the usual grumbling accompaniment on the part of the bridegroom’s future mother-in-law.
Everything went on smoothly straightforward, and without a break--like a railroad--when, without
knowing why, the popular voice--a voice which is as the personification of conscience,--began
to rise in a murmur against the stranger, despite the fact that he was affable, humane, and
liberal; that he spoke well and sang better; and freely took the black and horny hands of the
labourers between his own white and beringed fingers. They began to feel neither honoured nor
overpowered by so much courtesy; his reasoning was always so coarse, although forcible and logical.

“By my faith!” said Uncle Blas; “why does this ill-faced gentleman call me Mr. Blas, as if
that would make me any better? What does it look like to you?”

“Well, as for me,” said Uncle Gil, “did he not come to shake hands with me as if we had some
plot between us? Did he not call me citizen? I, who have never been out of the village, and
never want to go.”

As for Mother Holofernes, the more she saw of her future son-in-law, the less regard she had
for him. It seemed to her that between that innocent red hair and the cranium were located
certain protuberances of a very curious kind; and she remembered with emotion that malediction
she had uttered against her daughter on that ever memorable day on which her foot was injured
and her washing spoilt.

At last, the wedding day arrived. Mother Holofernes had made pastry and reflections--the former
sweet, the latter bitter; a great olla podrida for the food, and a dangerous project for supper;
she had prepared a barrel of wine that was generous, and a line of conduct that was not. When
the bridal pair were about to retire to the nuptial chamber, Mother Holofernes called her daughter
aside, and said: “When you are in your room, be careful to close the door and windows; shut
all the shutters, and do not leave a single crevice open but the keyhole of the door. Take
with you this branch of consecrated olive, and beat your husband with it as I advise you; this
ceremony is customary at all marriages, and signifies that the woman is going to be master,
and is followed in order to sanction and establish the rule.”

Panfila, for the first time obedient to her mother, did everything that she had prescribed.

No sooner did the bridegroom espy the branch of consecrated olive in the hands of his wife,
than he attempted to make a precipitous retreat. But when he found the doors and windows closed,
and every crevice stopped up, seeing no other means of escape than by passing through the keyhole,
he crept into that; this spruce, red-and-white, and well-spoken bachelor being, as Mother Holofernes
had suspected, neither more nor less than the Evil One himself, who, availing himself of the
right given him by the anathema launched against Panfila by her mother, thought to amuse himself
with the pleasures of a marriage, and encumber himself with a wife of his own, whilst so many
husbands were supplicating him to take theirs off their hands.

But this gentleman, despite his reputation for wisdom, had met with a mother-in-law who knew
more than he did; and Mother Holofernes was not the only specimen of that genus. Therefore,
scarcely had his lordship entered into the keyhole, congratulating himself upon having, as
usual, discovered a method of escape, than he found himself in a phial, which his foreseeing
mother-in-law had ready on the other side of the door; and no sooner had he got into it than
the provident old dame sealed the vessel hermetically. In a most tender voice, and with most
humble supplications, and most pathetic gestures, her son-in-law addressed her, and desired
that she would grant him his liberty. But Mother Holofernes was not to be deceived by the demon,
nor disconcerted by orations, nor imposed upon by honeyed words; she took charge of the bottle
and its contents, and went off to a mountain. The old lady vigorously climbed to the summit
of this mountain, and there, on its most elevated crest, in a rocky and secluded spot, deposited
the phial, taking leave of her son-in-law with a shake of her closed fist as a farewell greeting.

And there his lordship remained for ten years. What years those ten were! The world was as
quiet as a pool of oil. Everybody attended to his own affairs, without meddling in those of
other people. Nobody coveted the position, nor the wife, nor the property of other persons;
theft became a word without signification; arms rusted; powder was only consumed in fireworks;
prisons stood empty; finally, in this decade of the golden age, only one single deplorable
event occurred ... the lawyers died from hunger and quietude.

Alas! that so happy a time should have an end! But everything has an end in this world, even
the discourses of the most eloquent fathers of the country. At last the much-to-be-envied decade
came to a termination in the following way.

A soldier named Briónes had obtained permission for a few days’ leave to enable him to visit
his native place, which was Villagañanes. He took the road which led to the lofty mountain
upon whose summit the son-in-law of Mother Holofernes was cursing all mothers-in-law, past,
present, and future, promising as soon as ever he regained his power to put an end to that
class of vipers, and by a very simple method--the abolition of matrimony. Much of his time
was spent in composing and reciting satires against the invention of washing linen, the primal
cause of his present trouble.

Arrived at the foot of the mountain, Briónes did not care to go round the mountain like the
road, but wished to go straight ahead, assuring the carriers who were with him, that if the
mountain would not go to the right-about for him he would pass over its summit, although it
were so high that he should knock his head against the sky.

When he reached the summit, Briónes was struck with amazement on seeing the phial borne like
a pimple on the nose of the mountain. He took it up, looked through it, and on perceiving the
demon, who with years of confinement and fasting, the sun’s rays, and sadness, had dwindled
and become as dried as a prune, exclaimed in surprise:--

“Whatever vermin is this? What a phenomenon!”

“I am an honourable and meritorious demon,” said the captive, humbly and courteously. “The
perversity of a treacherous mother-in-law, into whose clutches I fell, has held me confined
here during the last ten years; liberate me, valiant warrior, and I will grant any favour you
choose to solicit.”

“I should like my demission from the army,” said Briónes.

“You shall have it; but uncork, uncork quickly, for it is a most monstrous anomaly to have
thrust into a corner, in these revolutionary times, the first revolutionist in the world.”

Briónes drew the cork out slightly, and a noxious vapour issued from the bottle and ascended
to his brain. He sneezed, and immediately replaced the stopper with such a violent blow from
his hand that the cork was suddenly depressed, and the prisoner, squeezed down, gave a shout
of rage and pain.

“What are you doing, vile earthworm, more malicious and perfidious than my mother-in-law?”
he exclaimed.

“There is another condition,” responded Briónes, “that I must add to our treaty; it appears
to me that the service I am going to do you is worth it.”

“And what is this condition, tardy liberator?” inquired the demon.

“I should like for thy ransom four dollars daily during the rest of my life. Think of it, for
upon that depends whether you stay in or come out.”

“Miserable avaricious one!” exclaimed the demon, “I have no money.”

“Oh!” replied Briónes, “what an answer from a great lord like you! Why, friend, that is the
Minister of War’s answer! If you can’t pay me I cannot help you.”

“Then you do not believe me,” said the demon, “only let me out, and I will aid you to obtain
what you want as I have done for many others. Let me out, I say, let me out.”

“Gently,” responded the soldier, “there is nothing to hurry about. Understand me that I shall
have to hold you by the tail until you have performed your promise to me; and if not, I have
nothing more to say to you.”

“Insolent, do you not trust me then!” shouted the demon.

“No,” responded Briónes.

“What you desire is contrary to my dignity,” said the captive, with all the arrogance that
a being of his size could express.

“Now I must go,” said Briónes.

“Good-bye,” said the demon, in order not to say adieu.

But seeing that Briónes went off, the captive made desperate jumps in the phial, shouting loudly
to the soldier.

“Return, return, dear friend,” he said; and muttered to himself, “I should like a four-year-old
bull to overtake you, you soulless fool!” and then he shouted, “Come, come, beneficent fellow,
liberate me, and hold me by the tail, or by the nose, valiant warrior;” and then muttered to
himself, “Some one will avenge me, obstinate soldier; and if the son-in-law of Mother Holofernes
is not able to do it, there are those who will burn you both, face to face, in the same bonfire,
or I have little influence.”

On hearing the demon’s supplications Briónes returned and uncorked the bottle. Mother Holofernes’s
son-in-law came forth like a chick from its shell, drawing out his head first and then his
body, and lastly his tail, which Briónes seized; and the more the demon tried to contract it
the firmer he held it.

After the ex-captive, who was somewhat cramped, had occasionally stopped to stretch his arms
and legs, they took the road to court, the demon grumbling and following the soldier, who carried
the tail well secured in his hands.

On their arrival they went to court, and the demon said to his liberator:--

“I am going to put myself into the body of the princess, who is extremely beloved by her father,
and I shall give her pains that no doctor will be able to cure; then you present yourself and
offer to cure her, demanding for your recompense four dollars daily, and your discharge. I
will then leave her to you, and our accounts will be settled.”

Everything happened as arranged and foreseen by the demon, but Briónes did not wish to let
go his hold of the tail, and he said:--

“Well devised, sir, but four dollars are a ransom unworthy of you, of me, and of the service
that we have undertaken. Find some method of showing yourself more generous. To do this will
give you honour in the world, where, pardon my frankness, you do not enjoy the best of characters.”

“Would that I could get rid of you!” said the demon to himself, “but I am so weak and so numbed
that I am not able to go alone. I must have patience! that which men call a virtue. Oh, now
I understand why so many fall into my power for not having practised it. Forward then for Naples,
for it is necessary to submit in order to liberate my tail. I must go and submit to the arbitration
of fate for the satisfaction of this new demand.”

Everything succeeded according to his wish. The princess of Naples fell a victim to convulsive
pains and took to her bed. The king was greatly afflicted. Briónes presented himself with all
the arrogance his knowledge that he would receive the demon’s aid could give him. The king
was willing to make use of his services, but stipulated that if within three days he had not
cured the princess, as he confidently promised to, he should be hanged. Briónes, certain of
a favourable result, did not raise the slightest objection.

Unfortunately, the demon heard this arrangement made, and gave a leap of delight at seeing
within his hands the means of avenging himself.

The demon’s leap caused the princess such pain that she begged them to take the doctor away.

The following day this scene was repeated. Briónes then knew that the demon was at the bottom
of it, and intended to let him be hanged. But Briónes was not a man to lose his head.

On the third day, when the pretended doctor arrived, they were erecting the gallows in front
of the very palace door. As he entered the princess’s apartment, the invalid’s pains were redoubled
and she began to cry out that they should put an end to that impostor.

“I have not exhausted all my resources yet,” said Briónes gravely, “deign, your Royal Highness,
to wait a little while.” He then went out of the room and gave orders in the princess’s name
that all the bells of the city should be rung.

When he returned to the royal apartment, the demon, who has a mortal hatred of the sound of
bells, and is, moreover, inquisitive, asked Briónes what the bells were ringing for.

“They are ringing,” responded the soldier, “because of the arrival of your mother-in-law, whom
I have ordered to be summoned.”

Scarcely had the demon heard that his mother-in-law had arrived, than he flew away with such
rapidity that not even a sun’s ray could have caught him. Proud as a peacock, Briónes was left
in victorious possession of the field.

THE GENEROUS GAMBLER[17]

BY CHARLES PIERRE BAUDELAIRE

    [17] From The English Review, November 1918. By permission
    of the Editor and Mr. Arthur Symons.

Yesterday, across the crowd of the boulevard, I found myself touched by a mysterious Being
I had always desired to know, and who I recognized immediately, in spite of the fact that I
had never seen him. He had, I imagined, in himself, relatively as to me, a similar desire,
for he gave me, in passing, so significant a sign in his eyes that I hastened to obey him.
I followed him attentively, and soon I descended behind him into a subterranean dwelling, astonishing
to me as a vision, where shone a luxury of which none of the actual houses in Paris could give
me an approximate example. It seemed to me singular that I had passed so often that prodigious
retreat without having discovered the entrance. There reigned an exquisite, an almost stifling
atmosphere, which made one forget almost instantaneously all the fastidious horrors of life;
there I breathed a sombre sensuality, like that of opium-smokers when, set on the shore of
an enchanted island, over which shone an eternal afternoon, they felt born in them, to the
soothing sounds of melodious cascades, the desire of never again seeing their households, their
women, their children, and of never again being tossed on the decks of ships by storms.

There were there strange faces of men and women, gifted with so fatal a beauty that I seemed
to have seen them years ago and in countries which I failed to remember, and which inspired
in me that curious sympathy and that equally curious sense of fear that I usually discover
in unknown aspects. If I wanted to define in some fashion or other the singular expression
of their eyes, I would say that never had I seen such magic radiance more energetically expressing
the horror of ennui and of desire--of the immortal desire of feeling themselves alive.

As for mine host and myself, we were already, as we sat down, as perfect friends as if we had
always known each other. We drank immeasurably of all sorts of extraordinary wines, and--a
thing not less bizarre--it seemed to me, after several hours, that I was no more intoxicated
than he was.

However, gambling, this superhuman pleasure, had cut, at various intervals, our copious libations,
and I ought to say that I had gained and lost my soul, as we were playing, with an heroical
carelessness and light-heartedness. The soul is so invisible a thing, often useless and sometimes
so troublesome, that I did not experience, as to this loss, more than that kind of emotion
I might have, had I lost my visiting card in the street.

We spent hours in smoking cigars, whose incomparable savour and perfume give to the soul the
nostalgia of unknown delights and sights, and, intoxicated by all these spiced sauces, I dared,
in an access of familiarity which did not seem to displease him, to cry, as I lifted a glass
filled to the brim with wine: “To your immortal health, Old He-Goat!”

We talked of the universe, of its creation and of its future destruction; of the leading ideas
of the century--that is to say, of Progress and Perfectibility--and, in general, of all kinds
of human infatuations. On this subject his Highness was inexhaustible in his irrefutable jests,
and he expressed himself with a splendour of diction and with a magnificence in drollery such
as I have never found in any of the most famous conversationalists of our age. He explained
to me the absurdity of different philosophies that had so far taken possession of men’s brains,
and deigned even to take me in confidence in regard to certain fundamental principles, which
I am not inclined to share with any one.

He complained in no way of the evil reputation under which he lived, indeed, all over the world,
and he assured me that he himself was of all living beings the most interested in the destruction
of Superstition, and he avowed to me that he had been afraid, relatively as to his proper power,
once only, and that was on the day when he had heard a preacher, more subtle than the rest
of the human herd, cry in his pulpit: “My dear brethren, do not ever forget, when you hear
the progress of lights praised, that the loveliest trick of the Devil is to persuade you that
he does not exist!”

The memory of this famous orator brought us naturally on the subject of Academies, and my strange
host declared to me that he didn’t disdain, in many cases, to inspire the pens, the words,
and the consciences of pedagogues, and that he almost always assisted in person, in spite of
being invisible, at all the scientific meetings.

Encouraged by so much kindness I asked him if he had any news of God--who has not his hours
of impiety?--especially as the old friend of the Devil. He said to me, with a shade of unconcern
united with a deeper shade of sadness: “We salute each other when we meet.” But, for the rest,
he spoke in Hebrew.

It is uncertain if his Highness has ever given so long an audience to a simple mortal, and
I feared to abuse it.

Finally, as the dark approached shivering, this famous personage, sung by so many poets, and
served by so many philosophers who work for his glory’s sake without being aware of it, said
to me: “I want you to remember me always, and to prove to you that I--of whom one says so much
evil--am often enough bon diable, to make use of one of your vulgar locutions. So as to make
up for the irremediable loss that you have made of your soul, I shall give you back the stake
you ought to have gained, if your fate had been fortunate--that is to say, the possibility
of solacing and of conquering, during your whole life, this bizarre affection of ennui, which
is the source of all your maladies and of all your miseries. Never a desire shall be formed
by you that I will not aid you to realize; you will reign over your vulgar equals; money and
gold and diamonds, fairy palaces, shall come to seek you and shall ask you to accept them without
your having made the least effort to obtain them; you can change your abode as often as you
like; you shall have in your power all sensualities without lassitude, in lands where the climate
is always hot, and where the women are as scented as the flowers.” With this he rose up and
said good-bye to me with a charming smile.

If it had not been for the shame of humiliating myself before so immense an assembly, I might
have voluntarily fallen at the feet of this generous Gambler, to thank him for his unheard-of
munificence. But, little by little, after I had left him, an incurable defiance entered into
me; I dared no longer believe in so prodigious a happiness; and as I went to bed, making over
again my nightly prayer by means of all that remained in me in the matter of faith, I repeated
in my slumber: “My God, my Lord, my God! Do let the Devil keep his word with me!”

THE THREE LOW MASSES[18]

A CHRISTMAS STORY

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET

    [18] From The Fig and the Idler, an Algerian Legend, and
    Other Stories, by Alphonse Daudet. London, T. Fisher Unwin,
    1892. (By permission of the Publisher.)

I

“Two truffled turkeys, Garrigou?”

“Yes, your reverence, two magnificent turkeys, stuffed with truffles. I should know something
about it, for I myself helped to fill them. One would have said their skin would crack as they
were roasting, it is that stretched....”

“Jesu-Maria! I who like truffles so much!... Quick, give me my surplice, Garrigou.... And have
you seen anything else in the kitchen besides the turkeys?”

“Yes, all kinds of good things.... Since noon, we have done nothing but pluck pheasants, hoopoes,
barn-fowls, and woodcocks. Feathers were flying about all over.... Then they have brought eels,
gold carp, and trout out of the pond, besides....”

“What size were the trout, Garrigou?”

“As big as that, your reverence.... Enormous!”

“Oh heavens! I think I see them.... Have you put the wine in the vessels?”

“Yes, your reverence, I have put the wine in the vessels.... But la! it is not to be compared
to what you will drink presently, when the midnight mass is over. If you only saw that in the
dining hall of the château! The decanters are all full of wines glowing with every colour!...
And the silver plate, the chased epergnes, the flowers, the lustres!... Never will such another
midnight repast be seen. The noble marquis has invited all the lords of the neighbourhood.
At least forty of you will sit down to table, without reckoning the farm bailiff and the notary....
Oh, how lucky is your reverence to be one of them!... After a mere sniff of those fine turkeys,
the scent of truffles follows me everywhere.... Yum!”

“Come now, come now, my child. Let us keep from the sin of gluttony, on the night of the Nativity
especially.... Be quick and light the wax-tapers and ring the first bell for the mass; for
it’s nearly midnight and we must not be behind time.”

This conversation took place on a Christmas night in the year of grace one thousand six hundred
and something, between the Reverend Dom Balaguère (formerly Prior of the Barnabites, now paid
chaplain of the Lords of Trinquelague), and his little clerk Garrigou, or at least him whom
he took for his little clerk Garrigou, for you must know that the devil had on that night assumed
the round face and soft features of the young sacristan, in order the more effectually to lead
the reverend father into temptation, and make him commit the dreadful sin of gluttony. Well
then, while the supposed Garrigou (hum!) was with all his might making the bells of the baronial
chapel chime out, his reverence was putting on his chasuble in the little sacristy of the château;
and with his mind already agitated by all these gastronomic descriptions, he kept saying to
himself as he was robing:

“Roasted turkeys, ... golden carp, ... trout as big as that!...”

Out of doors, the soughing night wind was carrying abroad the music of the bells, and with
this, lights began to make their appearance on the dark sides of Mount Ventoux, on the summit
of which rose the ancient towers of Trinquelague. The lights were borne by the families of
the tenant farmers, who were coming to hear the midnight mass at the château. They were scaling
the hill in groups of five or six together, and singing; the father in front carrying a lantern,
and the women wrapped up in large brown cloaks, beneath which their little children snuggled
and sheltered. In spite of the cold and the lateness of the hour these good folks were marching
blithely along, cheered by the thought that after the mass was over there would be, as always
in former years, tables set for them down in the kitchens. Occasionally the glass windows in
some lord’s carriage, preceded by torch-bearers, would glisten in the moon-light on the rough
ascent; or perhaps a mule would jog by with tinkling bells, and by the light of the misty lanterns
the tenants would recognize their bailiff and would salute him as he passed with:

“Good evening, Master Arnoton.”

“Good evening. Good evening, my friend.”

The night was clear, and the stars were twinkling with frost; the north wind was nipping, and
at times a fine small hail, that slipped off one’s garments without wetting them, faithfully
maintained the tradition of Christmas being white with snow. On the summit of the hill, as
the goal towards which all were wending, gleamed the château, with its enormous mass of towers
and gables, and its chapel steeple rising into the blue-black sky. A multitude of little lights
were twinkling, coming, going, and moving about at all the windows; they looked like the sparks
one sees running about in the ashes of burnt paper.

After you had passed the drawbridge and the postern gate, it was necessary, in order to reach
the chapel, to cross the first court, which was full of carriages, footmen and sedan chairs,
and was quite illuminated by the blaze of torches and the glare of the kitchen fires. Here
were heard the click of turnspits, the rattle of sauce-pans, the clash of glasses and silver
plate in the commotion attending the preparation of the feast; while over all rose a warm vapour
smelling pleasantly of roast meat, piquant herbs, and complex sauces, and which seemed to say
to the farmers, as well as to the chaplain and to the bailiff, and to everybody:

“What a good midnight repast we are going to have after the mass!”

II

Ting-a-ring!--a--ring!

The midnight mass is beginning in the chapel of the château, which is a cathedral in miniature,
with groined and vaulted roofs, oak wood-work as high as the walls, expanded draperies, and
tapers all aglow. And what a lot of people! What grand dresses! First of all, seated in the
carved stalls that line the choir, is the Lord of Trinquelague in a coat of salmon-coloured
silk, and about him are ranged all the noble lords who have been invited.

On the opposite side, on velvet-covered praying-stools, the old dowager marchioness in flame-coloured
brocade, and the youthful Lady of Trinquelague wearing a lofty head-dress of plaited lace in
the newest fashion of the French court, have taken their places. Lower down, dressed in black,
with punctilious wigs, and shaven faces, like two grave notes among the gay silks and the figured
damasks, are seen the bailiff, Thomas Arnoton, and the notary Master Ambroy. Then come the
stout major-domos, the pages, the horsemen, the stewards, Dame Barbara, with all her keys hanging
at her side on a real silver ring. At the end, on the forms, are the lower class, the female
servants, the cotter farmers and their families; and lastly, down there, near the door, which
they open and shut very carefully, are messieurs the scullions, who enter in the interval between
two sauces, to take a little whiff of mass; and these bring the smell of the repast with them
into the church, which now is in high festival and warm from the number of lighted tapers.

Is it the sight of their little white caps that so distracts the celebrant? Is it not rather
Garrigou’s bell? that mad little bell which is shaken at the altar foot with an infernal impetuosity
that seems all the time to be saying: “Come, let us make haste, make haste.... The sooner we
shall have finished, the sooner shall we be at table.” The fact is that every time this devil’s
bell tinkles the chaplain forgets his mass, and thinks of nothing but the midnight repast.
He fancies he sees the cooks bustling about, the stoves glowing with forge-like fires, the
two magnificent turkeys, filled, crammed, marbled with truffles....

Then again he sees, passing along, files of little pages carrying dishes enveloped in tempting
vapours, and with them he enters the great hall now prepared for the feast. Oh delight! there
is the immense table all laden and luminous, peacocks adorned with their feathers, pheasants
spreading out their reddish-brown wings, ruby-coloured decanters, pyramids of fruit glowing
amid green boughs, and those wonderful fish Garrigou (ah well, yes, Garrigou!) had mentioned,
laid on a couch of fennel, with their pearly scales gleaming as if they had just come out of
the water, and bunches of sweet-smelling herbs in their monstrous snouts. So clear is the vision
of these marvels that it seems to Dom Balaguère that all these wondrous dishes are served before
him on the embroidered altar-cloth, and two or three times instead of the Dominus vobiscum,
he finds himself saying the Benedicite. Except these slight mistakes, the worthy man pronounces
the service very conscientiously, without skipping a line, without omitting a genuflexion;
and all goes tolerably well until the end of the first mass; for you know that on Christmas
Day the same officiating priest must celebrate three consecutive masses.

“That’s one done!” says the chaplain to himself with a sigh of relief; then, without losing
a moment, he motioned to his clerk, or to him whom he supposed to be his clerk, and...

“Ting-a-ring ... Ting-a-ring, a-ring!”

Now the second mass is beginning, and with it begins also Dom Balaguère’s sin. “Quick, quick,
let us make haste,” Garrigou’s bell cries out to him in its shrill little voice, and this time
the unhappy celebrant, completely given over to the demon of gluttony, fastens upon the missal
and devours its pages with the eagerness of his over-excited appetite. Frantically he bows
down, rises up, merely indicates the sign of the cross and the genuflexions, and curtails all
his gestures in order to get sooner finished. Scarcely has he stretched out his arms at the
gospel, before he is striking his breast at the Confiteor. It is a contest between himself
and the clerk as to who shall mumble the faster. Versicles and responses are hurried over and
run one into another. The words, half pronounced, without opening the mouth, which would take
up too much time, terminate in unmeaning murmurs.

“Oremus ps ... ps ... ps....”

“Mea culpa ... pa ... pa....”

Like vintagers in a hurry pressing grapes in the vat, these two paddle in the mass Latin, sending
splashes in every direction.

“Dom ... scum!...” says Balaguère.

“... Stutuo!...” replies Garrigou; and all the time the cursed little bell is tinkling there
in their ears, like the jingles they put on post-horses to make them gallop fast. You may imagine
at that speed a low mass is quickly disposed of.

“That makes two,” says the chaplain quite panting; then without taking time to breathe, red
and perspiring, he descends the altar steps and...

“Ting-a-ring!... Ting-a-ring!...”

Now the third mass is beginning. There are but a few more steps to be taken to reach the dining-hall;
but, alas! the nearer the midnight repast approaches the more does the unfortunate Balaguère
feel himself possessed by mad impatience and gluttony. The vision becomes more distinct; the
golden carps, the roasted turkeys are there, there!... He touches them, ... he ... oh heavens!
The dishes are smoking, the wines perfume the air; and with furiously agitated clapper, the
little bell is crying out to him:

“Quick, quick, quicker yet!”

But how could he go quicker? His lips scarcely move. He no longer pronounces the words; ...
unless he were to impose upon Heaven outright and trick it out of its mass.... And that is
precisely what he does, the unfortunate man!... From temptation to temptation; he begins by
skipping a verse, then two. Then the epistle is too long--he does not finish it, skims over
the gospel, passes before the Credo without going into it, skips the Pater, salutes the Preface
from a distance, and by leaps and bounds thus hurls himself into eternal damnation, constantly
followed by the vile Garrigou (vade retro, Satanas!), who seconds him with wonderful skill,
sustains his chasuble, turns over the leaves two at a time, elbows the reading-desks, upsets
the vessels, and is continually sounding the little bell louder and louder, quicker and quicker.

You should have seen the scared faces of all who were present, as they were obliged to follow
this mass by mere mimicry of the priest, without hearing a word; some rise when others kneel,
and sit down when the others are standing up, and all the phases of this singular service are
mixed up together in the multitude of different attitudes presented by the worshippers on the
benches....

“The abbé goes too fast.... One can’t follow him,” murmured the old dowager, shaking her head-dress
in confusion. Master Arnoton with great steel spectacles on his nose is searching in his prayer-book
to find where the dickens they are. But at heart all these good folks, who themselves are thinking
about feasting, are not sorry that the mass is going on at this post haste; and when Dom Balaguère
with radiant face turns towards those present and cries with all his might: “Ite, missa est,”
they all respond to him a “Deo gratias” in but one voice, and that as joyous and enthusiastic,
as if they thought themselves already seated at the midnight repast and drinking the first toast.

III

Five minutes afterwards the crowd of nobles were sitting down in the great hall, with the chaplain
in the midst of them. The château, illuminated from top to bottom, was resounding with songs,
with shouts, with laughter, with uproar; and the venerable Dom Balaguère was thrusting his
fork into the wing of a fowl, and drowning all remorse for his sin in streams of regal wine
and the luscious juices of the viands. He ate and drank so much, the dear, holy man, that he
died during the night of a terrible attack, without even having had time to repent; and then
in the morning when he got to heaven, I leave you to imagine how he was received.

He was told to withdraw on account of his wickedness. His fault was so grievous that it effaced
a whole lifetime of virtue.... He had robbed them of a midnight mass.... He should have to
pay for it with three hundred, and he should not enter into Paradise until he had celebrated
in his own chapel these three hundred Christmas masses in the presence of all those who had
sinned with him and by his fault....

... And now this is the true legend of Dom Balaguère as it is related in the olive country.
At the present time the château of Trinquelague no longer exists, but the chapel still stands
on the top of Mount Ventoux, amid a cluster of green oaks. Its decayed door rattles in the
wind, and its threshold is choked up with vegetation; there are birds’ nests at the corners
of the altar, and in the recesses of the lofty windows, from which the stained glass has long
ago disappeared. It seems, however, that every year at Christmas, a supernatural light wanders
amid these ruins, and the peasants, in going to the masses and to the midnight repasts, see
this phantom of a chapel illuminated by invisible tapers that burn in the open air, even in
snow and wind. You may laugh at it if you like, but a vine-dresser of the place, named Garrigue,
doubtless a descendant of Garrigou, declared to me that one Christmas night, when he was a
little tipsy, he lost his way on the hill of Trinquelague; and this is what he saw.... Till
eleven o’clock, nothing. All was silent, motionless, inanimate. Suddenly, about midnight, a
chime sounded from the top of the steeple, an old, old chime, which seemed as if it were ten
leagues off. Very soon Garrigue saw lights flitting about, and uncertain shadows moving in
the road that climbs the hill. All those he had seen pass were seated round the choir, and
in the ruined nave, just as if the old seats still existed. Fine ladies in brocade, with lace
head-dresses; lords adorned from head to foot; peasants in flowered jackets such as our grandfathers
had; all with an old, faded, dusty, tired look. From time to time the night birds, the usual
inhabitants of the chapel, who were aroused by all these lights, would come and flit round
the tapers, the flames of which rose straight and ill-defined, as if they were burning behind
a veil; and what amused Garrigue very much was a certain personage with large steel spectacles,
who was ever shaking his tall black wig, in which one of these birds was quite entangled, and
kept itself upright by noiselessly flapping its wings....

At the farther end, a little old man of childish figure was on his knees in the middle of the
choir, desperately shaking a clapperless and soundless bell, whilst a priest, clad in ancient
gold, was coming and going before the altar, reciting prayers of which not a word was heard....
Most certainly this was Dom Balaguère in the act of saying his third low mass.

DEVIL-PUZZLERS[19]

BY FREDERICK BEECHER PERKINS

    [19] By permission of G. P. Putnam’s Sons, Publishers. New
    York and London.

It will not do at all to disbelieve in the existence of a personal devil. It is not so many
years ago that one of our profoundest divines remarked with indignation upon such disbelief.
“No such person?” cried the doctor with energy. “Don’t tell me! I can hear his tail snap and
crack about amongst the churches any day!”

And if the enemy is, in truth, still as vigorously active among the sons of God as he was in
the days of Job (that is to say, in the time of Solomon, when, as the critics have found out,
the Book of Job was written), then surely still more is he vigilant and sly in his tricks for
foreclosing his mortgages upon the souls of the wicked.

And once more: still more than ever is his personal appearance probable in these latter days.
The everlasting tooting of the wordy Cumming has proclaimed the end of all things for a quarter
of a century; and he will surely see his prophecy fulfilled if he can only keep it up long
enough. But, though we discredit the sapient Second-Adventist as to the precise occasion of
the diabolic avatar, has there not been a strange coincidence between his noisy declarations,
and other evidences of an approximation of the spiritual to the bodily sphere of life? Is not
this same quarter of a century that of the Spiritists? Has it not witnessed the development
of Od? And of clairvoyance? And have not the doctrines of ghosts, and re-appearances of the
dead, and of messages from them, risen into a prominence entirely new, and into a coherence
and semblance at least of fact and fixed law such as was never known before? Yea, verily. Of
all times in the world’s history, to reject out of one’s beliefs either good spirits or bad,
angelology or diabology, chief good being, or chief bad being, this is the most improper.

Dr. Hicok was trebly liable to the awful temptation, under which he had assuredly fallen, over
and above the fact that he was a prig, which makes one feel the more glad that he was so handsomely
come up with in the end; such a prig that everybody who knew him, invariably called him (when
he wasn’t by) Hicok-alorum. This charming surname had been conferred on him by a crazy old
fellow with whom he once got into a dispute. Lunatics have the most awfully tricky ways of
dodging out of pinches in reasoning; but Hicok knew too much to know that; and so he acquired
his fine title to teach him one thing more.

Trebly liable, we said. The three reasons are,--

  1. He was foreign-born.
  2. He was a Scotchman.
  3. He was a physician and surgeon.

The way in which these causes operated was as follows (I wish it were allowable to use Artemas
Ward’s curiously satisfactory vocable “thusly:” like Mrs. Wiggle’s soothing syrup, it “supplies
a real want”):--

Being foreign-born, Dr. Hicok had not the unfailing moral stamina of a native American, and
therefore was comparatively easily beset by sin. Being, secondly, a Scotchman, he was not only
thoroughly conceited, with a conceit as immovable as the Bass Rock, just as other folks sometimes
are, but, in particular, he was perfectly sure of his utter mastery of metaphysics, logic and
dialectics, or, as he used to call it, with a snobbish Teutonicalization, dialektik. Now, in
the latter two, the Scotch can do something, but in metaphysics they are simply imbecile; which
quality, in the inscrutable providence of God, has been joined with an equally complete conviction
of the exact opposite. Let not man, therefore, put those traits asunder--not so much by reason
of any divine ordinance, as because no man in his senses would try to convince a Scotchman--or
anybody else, for that matter.

Thirdly, he was a physician and surgeon; and gentlemen of this profession are prone to become
either thoroughgoing materialists, or else implicit and extreme Calvinistic Presbyterians,
“of the large blue kind.” And they are, moreover, positive, hard-headed, bold, and self-confident.
So they have good need to be. Did not Majendie say to his students, “Gentlemen, disease is
a subject which physicians know nothing about”?

So the doctor both believed in the existence of a personal devil, and believed in his own ability
to get the upper hand of that individual in a tournament of the wits. Ah, he learned better
by terrible experience! The doctor was a dry-looking little chap, with sandy hair, a freckled
face, small grey eyes, and absurd white eyebrows and eyelashes, which made him look as if he
had finished off his toilet with just a light flourish from the dredging-box. He was erect
of carriage, and of a prompt, ridiculous alertness of step and motion, very much like that
of Major Wellington De Boots. And his face commonly wore a kind of complacent serenity such
as the Hindoos ascribe to Buddha. I know a little snappish dentist’s-goods dealer up town,
who might be mistaken for Hicok-alorum any day.

Well, well--what had the doctor done? Why--it will sound absurd, probably, to some unbelieving
people--but really Dr. Hicok confessed the whole story to me himself: he had made a bargain
with the Evil One! And indeed he was such an uncommonly disagreeable-looking fellow, that,
unless on some such hypothesis, it is impossible to imagine how he could have prospered as
he did. He gained patients, and cured them too; made money; invested successfully; bought a
brown-stone front--a house, not a wiglet--then bought other real estate; began to put his name
on charity subscription lists, and to be made vice-president of various things.

Chiefest of all,--it must have been by some superhuman aid that Dr. Hicok married his wife,
the then and present Mrs. Hicok. Dear me! I have described the doctor easily enough. But how
infinitely more difficult it is to delineate Beauty than the Beast: did you ever think of it?
All I can say is, that she is a very lovely woman now; and she must have been, when the doctor
married her, one of the loveliest creatures that ever lived--a lively, graceful, bright-eyed
brunette, with thick fine long black hair, pencilled delicate eyebrows, little pink ears, thin
high nose, great astonished brown eyes, perfect teeth, a little rosebud of a mouth, and a figure
so extremely beautiful that nobody believed she did not pad--hardly even the artists who--those
of them at least who work faithfully in the life-school--are the very best judges extant of
truth in costume and personal beauty. But, furthermore, she was good, with the innocent unconscious
goodness of a sweet little child; and of all feminine charms--even beyond her supreme grace
of motion--she possessed the sweetest, the most resistless--a lovely voice; whose tones, whether
in speech or song, were perfect in sweetness, and with a strange penetrating sympathetic quality
and at the same time with the most wonderful half-delaying completeness of articulation and
modulation, as if she enjoyed the sound of her own music. No doubt she did; but it was unconsciously,
like a bird. The voice was so sweet, the great loveliness and kindness of soul it expressed
were so deep, that, like every exquisite beauty, it rayed forth a certain sadness within the
pleasure it gave. It awakened infinite, indistinct emotions of beauty and perfection--infinite
longings.

It’s of no use to tell me that such a spirit--she really ought not to be noted so low down
as amongst human beings--that such a spirit could have been made glad by becoming the yoke-fellow
of Hicok-alorum, by influences exclusively human. No!--I don’t believe it--I won’t believe
it--it can’t be believed. I can’t convince you, of course, for you don’t know her; but if you
did, along with the rest of the evidence, and if your knowledge was like mine, that from the
testimony of my own eyes and ears and judgment--you would know, just as I do, that the doctor’s
possession of his wife was the key-stone of the arch of completed proof on which I found my
absolute assertion that he had made that bargain.

He certainly had! A most characteristic transaction too; for while, after the usual fashion,
it was agreed by the “party of the first part,”--viz., Old Scratch--that Dr. Hicok should succeed
in whatever he undertook during twenty years, and by the party of the second part, that at
the end of that time the D---- should fetch him in manner and form as is ordinarily provided,
yet there was added a peculiar clause. This was, that, when the time came for the doctor to
depart, he should be left entirely whole and unharmed, in mind, body, and estate, provided
he could put to the Devil three consecutive questions, of which either one should be such that
that cunning spirit could not solve it on the spot.

So for twenty years Dr. Hicok lived and prospered, and waxed very great. He did not gain one
single pound avoirdupois however, which may perchance seem strange, but is the most natural
thing in the world. Who ever saw a little, dry, wiry, sandy, freckled man, with white eyebrows,
that did grow fat? And besides, the doctor spent all his leisure time in hunting up his saving
trinity of questions; and hard study, above all for such a purpose, is as sure an anti-fattener
as Banting.

He knew the Scotch metaphysicians by heart already, ex-officio as it were; but he very early
gave up the idea of trying to fool the Devil with such mud-pie as that. Yet be it understood,
that he found cause to except Sir William Hamilton from the muddle-headed crew. He chewed a
good while, and pretty hopefully, upon the Quantification of the Predicate; but he had to give
that up too, when he found out how small and how dry a meat rattled within the big, noisy nut-shell.
He read Saint Thomas Aquinas, and Peter Dens, and a cartload more of old casuists, Romanist
and Protestant.

He exhausted the learning of the Development Theory. He studied and experimented up to the
existing limits of knowledge on the question of the Origin of Life, and then poked out alone,
as much farther as he could, into the ineffable black darkness that is close at the end of
our noses on that, as well as most other questions. He hammered his way through the whole controversy
on the Freedom of the Will. He mastered the whole works of Mrs. Henry C. Carey on one side,
and of two hundred and fifty English capitalists and American college professors on the other,
on the question of Protection or Free Trade. He made, with vast pains, an extensive collection
of the questions proposed at debating societies and college-students’ societies with long Greek
names. The last effort was a failure. Dr. Hicok had got the idea, that, from the spontaneous
activity of so many free young geniuses, many wondrous and suggestive thoughts would be born.
Having, however, tabulated his collection, he found, that, among all these innumerable gymnasia
of intellect, there were only seventeen questions debated! The doctor read me a curious little
memorandum of his conclusions on this unexpected fact, which will perhaps be printed some day.

He investigated many other things too; for a sharp-witted little Presbyterian Scotch doctor,
working to cheat the Devil out of his soul, can accomplish an amazing deal in twenty years.
He even went so far as to take into consideration mere humbugs; for, if he could cheat the
enemy with a humbug, why not? The only pain in that case, would be the mortification of having
stooped to an inadequate adversary--a foeman unworthy of his steel. So he weighed such queries
as the old scholastic brocard, An chimoera bombinans in vacuo devorat secundas intentiones?
and that beautiful moot point wherewith Sir Thomas More silenced the challenging schoolmen
of Bruges, An averia carrucae capta in vetito nomio sint irreplegibilia?

He glanced a little at the subject of conundrums; and among the chips from his workshop is
a really clever theory of conundrums. He has a classification and discussion of them, all his
own, and quite ingenious and satisfactory, which divides them into answerable and unanswerable,
and, under each of these, into resemblant and differential.

For instance: let the four classes be distinguished with the initials of those four terms,
A. R., A. D., U. R., and U. D.; you will find that the Infinite Possible Conundrum (so to speak)
can always be reduced under one of those four heads. Using symbols, as they do in discussing
syllogism--indeed, by the way, a conundrum is only a jocular variation in the syllogism, an
intentional fallacy for fun (read Whately’s Logic, Book III., and see if it isn’t so)--using
symbols, I say, you have these four “figures:”--

I. (A. R.) Why is A like B? (answerable): as, Why is a gentleman who gives a young lady a young
dog, like a person who rides rapidly up hill? A. Because he gives a gallop up (gal-a-pup).

Sub-variety; depending upon a violation of something like the “principle of excluded middle,”
a very fallacy of a fallacy; such as the ancient “nigger-minstrel!” case, Why is an elephant
like a brick? A. Because neither of them can climb a tree.

II. (A. D.) Why is A unlike B? (answerable) usually put thus: What is the difference between
A and B? (Figure I., if worded in the same style, would become: What is the similarity between
A and B?): as, What is the difference between the old United-States Bank and the Fulton Ferry-boat
signals in thick weather? A. One is a fog whistle, and the other is a Whig fossil.

III. (U. R.) Why is A like B? (unanswerable): as Charles Lamb’s well-known question, Is that
your own hare, or a wig?

IV. (U. D.) Why is A unlike B? (unanswerable): i. e., What is the difference, &c, as, What
is the difference between a fac simile and a sick family; or between hydraulics and raw-hide licks?

But let me not diverge too far into frivolity. All the hopefully difficult questions Dr. Hicok
set down and classified. He compiled a set of rules on the subject, and indeed developed a
whole philosophy of it, by which he struck off, as soluble, questions or classes of them. Some
he thought out himself; others were now and then answered in some learned book, that led the
way through the very heart of one or another of his biggest mill-stones.

So it was really none too much time that he had; and, in truth, he did not actually decide
upon his three questions, until just a week before the fearful day when he was to put them.

It came at last, as every day of reckoning surely comes; and Dr. Hicok, memorandum in hand,
sat in his comfortable library about three o’clock on one beautiful warm summer afternoon,
as pale as a sheet, his heart thumping away like Mr. Krupp’s biggest steam-hammer at Essen,
his mouth and tongue parched and feverish, a pitcher of cold water at hand from which he sipped
and sipped, though it seemed as if his throat repelled it into “the globular state,” or dispersed
it into steam, as red-hot iron does. Around him were the records of the vast army of doubters
and quibblers in whose works he had been hunting, as a traveller labours through a jungle,
for the deepest doubts, the most remote inquiries.

Sometimes, with that sort of hardihood, rather than reason, which makes a desperate man try
to believe by his will what he longs to know to be true, Dr. Hicok would say to himself, “I
know I’ve got him!” And then his heart would seem to fall out of him, it sank so suddenly,
and with so deadly a faintness, as the other side of his awful case loomed before him, and
he thought, “But if--?” He would not finish that question; he could not. The furthest point
to which he could bring himself was that of a sort of icy outer stiffening of acquiescence
in the inevitable.

There was a ring at the street-door. The servant brought in a card, on a silver salver.

  +-----------------+
  | MR. APOLLO LYON |
  +-----------------+

“Show the gentleman in,” said the doctor. He spoke with difficulty; for the effort to control
his own nervous excitement was so immense an exertion, that he hardly had the self-command
and muscular energy even to articulate.

The servant returned, and ushered into the library a handsome, youngish, middle-aged and middle-sized
gentleman, pale, with large melancholy black eyes, and dressed in the most perfect and quiet style.

The doctor arose, and greeted his visitor with a degree of steadiness and politeness that did
him the greatest credit.

“How do you do, sir?” he said: “I am happy”--but it struck him that he wasn’t, and he stopped
short.

“Very right, my dear sir,” replied the guest, in a voice that was musical but perceptibly sad,
or rather patient in tone. “Very right; how hollow those formulas are! I hate all forms and
ceremonies! But I am glad to see you, doctor. Now, that is really the fact.”

No doubt! “Divil doubt him!” as an Irishman would say. So is a cat glad to see a mouse in its
paw. Something like these thoughts arose in the doctor’s mind; he smiled as affably as he could,
and requested the visitor to be seated.

“Thanks!” replied he, and took the chair which the doctor moved up to the table for him. He
placed his hat and gloves on the table. There was a brief pause, as might happen if any two
friends sat down at their ease for a chat on matters and things in general. The visitor turned
over a volume or two that lay on the table.

“The Devil,” he read from one of them; “His Origin, Greatness, and Decadence. By the Rev. A.
Réville, D.D.”

“Ah!” he commented quietly. “A Frenchman, I observe. If it had been an Englishman, I should
fancy he wrote the book for the sake of the rhyme in the title. Do you know, doctor, I fancy
that incredulity of his will substitute one dash for the two periods in the reverend gentleman’s
degree! I know no one greater condition of success in some lines of operation, than to have
one’s existence thoroughly disbelieved in.”

The doctor forced himself to reply: “I hardly know how I came to have the book here. Yet he
does make out a pretty strong case. I confess I would like to be certified that he is right.
Suppose you allow yourself to be convinced?” And the poor fellow grinned: it couldn’t be called
a smile.

“Why, really, I’ll look into it. I’ve considered the point though, not that I’m sure I could
choose. And you know, as the late J. Milton very neatly observed, one would hardly like to
lose one’s intellectual being, ‘though full of pain;’” and he smiled, not unkindly but sadly,
and then resumed: “A Bible too. Very good edition. I remember seeing it stated that a professional
person made it his business to find errors of the press in one of the Bible Society’s editions--this
very one, I think; and the only one he could discover was a single ‘wrong font.’ Very accurate
work--very!”

He had been turning over the leaves indifferently as he spoke, and laid the volume easily back.
“Curious old superstition that,” he remarked, “that certain personages were made uncomfortable
by this work!” And he gave the doctor a glance, as much as to ask, in the most delicate manner
in the world, “Did you put that there to scare me with?”

I think the doctor blushed a little. He had not really expected, you know,--still, in case
there should be any prophylactic influence--? No harm done, in any event; and that was precisely
the observation made by the guest.

“No harm done, my dear fellow!” he said, in his calm, quiet, musical voice. No good, either,
I imagine they both of them added to themselves.

There is an often repeated observation, that people under the pressure of an immeasurable misery
or agony seem to take on a preternaturally sharp vision for minute details, such as spots in
the carpet, and sprigs in the wall-paper, threads on a sleeve, and the like. Probably the doctor
felt this influence. He had dallied a little, too, with the crisis; and so did his visitor--from
different motives, no doubt; and, as he sat there, his eye fell on the card that had just been
brought to him.

“I beg your pardon,” he said; “but might I ask a question about your card?”

“Most certainly, doctor: what is it?”

“Why--it’s always a liberty to ask questions about a gentleman’s name, and we Scotchmen are
particularly sensitive on the point; but I have always been interested in the general subject
of patronomatology.”

The other, by a friendly smile and a deprecating wave of the hand, renewed his welcome to the
doctor’s question.

“Well, it’s this: How did you come to decide upon that form of name--Mr. Apollo Lyon?”

“Oh! just a little fancy of mine. It’s a newly-invented variable card, I believe they call
it. There’s a temporary ink arrangement. It struck me it was liable to abuse in case of an
assumption of aliases; but perhaps that’s none of my business. You can easily take off the
upper name, and another one comes out underneath. I’m always interested in inventions. See.”

And as the text, “But they have sought out many inventions,” passed through Dr. Hicok’s mind,
the other drew forth a white handkerchief, and, rubbing the card in a careless sort of way,
laid it down before the doctor. Perhaps the strain on the poor doctor’s nerves was unsteadying
him by this time: he may not have seen right; but he seemed to see only one name, as if compounded
from the former two.

  +------------+
  |  APOLLYON  |
  +------------+

And it seemed to be in red ink instead of black; and the lines seemed to creep and throb and
glow, as if the red were the red of fire, instead of vermilion. But red is an extremely trying
colour to the eyes. However, the doctor, startled as he was, thought best not to raise any
further queries, and only said, perhaps with some difficulty, “Very curious, I’m sure!”

“Well, doctor,” said Mr. Lyon, or whatever his name was, “I don’t want to hurry you, but I
suppose we might as well have our little business over?”

“Why, yes. I suppose you wouldn’t care to consider any question of compromises or substitutes?”

“I fear it’s out of the question, really,” was the reply, most kindly in tone, but with perfect
distinctness.

There was a moment’s silence. It seemed to Dr. Hicok as if the beating of his heart must fill
the room, it struck so heavily, and the blood seemed to surge with so loud a rush through the
carotids up past his ears. “Shall I be found to have gone off with a rush of blood to the head?”
he thought to himself. But--it can very often be done by a resolute effort--he gathered himself
together as it were, and with one powerful exertion mastered his disordered nerves. Then he
lifted his memorandum, gave one glance at the sad, calm face opposite him, and spoke.

“You know they’re every once in a while explaining a vote, as they call it, in Congress. It
don’t make any difference, I know; but it seems to me as if I should put you more fully in
possession of my meaning, if I should just say a word or two, about the reasons for my selection.”

The visitor bowed with his usual air of pleasant acquiescence.

“I am aware,” said Dr. Hicok, “that my selection would seem thoroughly commonplace to most
people. Yet nobody knows better than you do, my dear sir, that the oldest questions are the
newest. The same vitality which is so strong in them, as to raise them as soon as thought begins,
is infinite, and maintains them as long as thought endures. Indeed, I may say to you frankly,
that it is by no means on novelty, but rather on antiquity, that I rely.”

The doctor’s hearer bowed with an air of approving interest. “Very justly reasoned,” he observed.
The doctor went on--

“I have, I may say--and under the circumstances I shall not be suspected of conceit--made pretty
much the complete circuit of unsolved problems. They class exactly as those questions do which
we habitually reckon as solved: under the three subjects to which they relate--God, the intelligent
creation, the unintelligent creation. Now, I have selected my questions accordingly--one for
each of those divisions. Whether I have succeeded in satisfying the conditions necessary will
appear quickly. But you see that I have not stooped to any quibbling, or begging either. I
have sought to protect myself by the honourable use of a masculine reason.”

“Your observations interest me greatly,” remarked the audience. “Not the less so, that they
are so accurately coincident with my own habitual lines of thought--at least, so far as I can
judge from what you have said. Indeed, suppose you had called upon me to help you prepare insoluble
problems. I was bound, I suppose, to comply to the best of my ability; and, if I had done so,
those statements of yours are thus far the very preface I supplied--I beg your pardon--should
have supplied--you with. I fancy I could almost state the questions. Well?”--

All this was most kind and complimentary; but somehow it did not encourage the doctor in the
least. He even fancied that he detected a sneer, as if his interlocutor had been saying, “Flutter
away, old bird! That was my bait that you have been feeding on: you’re safe enough; it is my
net that holds you.”

“First Question,” said Dr. Hicok, with steadiness: “Reconcile the foreknowledge and the fore-ordination
of God with the free will of man?”

“I thought so, of course,” remarked the other. Then he looked straight into the doctor’s keen
little grey eyes with his deep melancholy black ones, and raised his slender fore-finger. “Most
readily. The reconciliation is your own conscience, doctor! Do what you know to be right, and
you will find that there is nothing to reconcile--that you and your Maker have no debates to
settle!”

The words were spoken with a weighty solemnity and conviction that were even awful. The doctor
had a conscience, though he had found himself practically forced, for the sake of success,
to use a good deal of constraint with it--in fact, to lock it up, as it were, in a private
mad-house, on an unfounded charge of lunacy. But the obstinate thing would not die, and would
not lose its wits; and now all of a sudden, and from the very last quarter where it was to
be expected, came a summons before whose intensity of just requirement no bolts could stand.
The doctor’s conscience walked out of her prison, and came straight up to the field of battle,
and said--

“Give up the first question.”

And he obeyed.

“I confess it,” he said. “But how could I have expected a great basic truth both religiously
and psychologically so, from--from you?”

“Ah! my dear sir,” was the reply, “you have erred in that line of thought, exactly as many
others have. The truth is one and the same, to God, man, and devil.”

“Second Question,” said Dr. Hicok. “Reconcile the development theory, connection of natural
selection and sexual relation, with the responsible immortality of the soul.”

“Unquestionably,” assented the other, as if to say, “Just as I expected.”

“No theory of creation has any logical connection with any doctrine of immortality. What was
the motive of creation?--that would be a question! If you had asked me that! But the question,
‘Where did men come from?’ has no bearing on the question, ‘Have they any duties now that they
are here?’ The two are reconciled, because they do not differ. You can’t state any inconsistency
between a yard measure and a fifty-six pound weight.”

The doctor nodded; he sat down; he took a glass of water, and pressed his hand to his heart.
“Now, then,” he said to himself, “once more! If I have to stand this fifteen minutes I shall
be in some other world!”

The door from the inner room opened; and Mrs. Hicok came singing in, carrying balanced upon
her pretty pink fore-finger something or other of an airy bouquet-like fabric. Upon this she
was looking with much delight.

“See, dear!” she said: “how perfectly lovely!”

Both gentlemen started, and the lady started too. She had not known of the visit; and she had
not, until this instant, seen that her husband was not alone.

Dr. Hicok, of course, had never given her the key to his skeleton-closet; for he was a shrewd
man. He loved her too; and he thought he had provided for her absence during the ordeal. She
had executed her shopping with unprecedented speed.

Why the visitor started, would be difficult to say. Perhaps her voice startled him. The happy
music in it was enough like a beautified duplicate of his own thrilling sweet tones, to have
made him acknowledge her for a sister--from heaven. He started, at any rate.

“Mr. Lyon, my wife,” said the doctor, somewhat at a loss. Mr. Lyon bowed, and so did the lady.

“I beg your pardon, gentlemen, I am sure,” she said. “I did not know you were busy, dear. There
is a thunder-shower coming up. I drove home just in season.”

“Oh!--only a little wager, about some conundrums,” said the doctor. Perhaps he may be excused
for his fib. He did not want to annoy her unnecessarily.

“Oh, do let me know!” she said, with much eagerness. “You know how I enjoy them!”

“Well,” said the doctor, “not exactly the ordinary kind. I was to puzzle my friend here with
one out of three questions; and he has beaten me in two of them already. I’ve but one more chance.”

“Only one?” she asked, with a smile. “What a bright man your friend must be! I thought nobody
could puzzle you, dear. Stay; let me ask the other question.”

Both the gentlemen started again: it was quite a surprise.

“But are you a married man, Mr. Lyon?” she asked, with a blush.

“No, madam,” was the reply, with a very graceful bow--“I have a mother, but no wife. Permit
me to say, that, if I could believe there was a duplicate of yourself in existence, I would
be as soon as possible.”

“Oh, what a gallant speech!” said the lady. “Thank you, sir, very much;” and she made him a
pretty little curtsy. “Then I am quite sure of my question, sir. Shall I, dear?”

The doctor quickly decided. “I am done for, anyhow,” he reflected. “I begin to see that the
old villain put those questions into my head himself. He hinted as much. I don’t know but I’d
rather she would ask it. It’s better to have her kill me, I guess, than to hold out the carving-knife
to him myself.”

“With all my heart, my dear,” said the doctor, “if Mr. Lyon consents.”

Mr. Lyon looked a little disturbed; but his manner was perfect, as he replied that he regretted
to seem to disoblige, but that he feared the conditions of their little bet would not allow it.

“Beg your pardon, I’m sure, for being so uncivil,” said the lively little beauty, as she whispered
a few words in her husband’s ear.

This is what she said--

“What’s mine’s yours, dear. Take it. Ask him--buz, buzz, buzz.”

The doctor nodded. Mrs. Hicok stood by him and smiled, still holding in her pretty pink fore-finger
the frail shimmering thing just mentioned; and she gave it a twirl, so that it swung quite
round. “Isn’t it a love of a bonnet?” she said.

“Yes,” the doctor said aloud. “I adopt the question.”

“Third Question. Which is the front side of this?”

And he pointed to the bonnet. It must have been a bonnet, because Mrs. Hicok called it so.
I shouldn’t have known it from the collection of things in a kaleidoscope, bunched up together.

The lady stood before him, and twirled the wondrous fabric round and round, with the prettiest
possible unconscious roguish look of defiance. The doctor’s very heart stood still.

“Put it on, please,” said Mr. Lyon, in the most innocent way in the world.

“Oh, no!” laughed she. “I know I’m only a woman, but I’m not quite so silly! But I’ll tell
you what: you men put it on, if you think that will help you!” And she held out the mystery to him.

Confident in his powers of discrimination, Mr. Lyon took hold of the fairy-like combination
of sparkles and threads and feathers and flowers, touching it with that sort of timid apprehension
that bachelors use with a baby. He stood before the glass over the mantelpiece. First he put
it across his head with one side in front, and then with the other. Then he put it lengthways
of his head, and tried the effect of tying one of the two couples of strings under each of
his ears. Then he put it on, the other side up; so that it swam on his head like a boat, with
a high mounted bow and stern. More than once he did all this, with obvious care and thoughtfulness.

Then he came slowly back, and resumed his seat. It was growing very dark, though they had not
noticed it; for the thunder-shower had been hurrying on, and already its advanced guard of
wind, heavy laden with the smell of the rain, could be heard, and a few large drops splashed
on the window.

The beautiful wife of the doctor laughed merrily to watch the growing discomposure of the visitor,
who returned the bonnet, with undiminished courtesy, but with obvious constraint of manner.

He looked down; he drummed on the table; he looked up; and both the doctor and the doctor’s
wife were startled at the intense sudden anger in the dark, handsome face. Then he sprang up,
and went to the window. He looked out a moment, and then said--

“Upon my word, that is going to be a very sharp squall! The clouds are very heavy. If I’m any
judge, something will be struck. I can feel the electricity in the air.”

While he still spoke, the first thunder-bolt crashed overhead. It was one of those close, sudden,
overpoweringly awful explosions from clouds very heavy and very near, where the lightning and
the thunder leap together out of the very air close about you, even as if you were in them.
It was an unendurable burst of sound, and of the intense white sheety light of very near lightning.
Dreadfully frightened, the poor little lady clung close to her husband. He, poor man, if possible
yet more frightened, exhausted as he was by what he had been enduring, fainted dead away. Don’t
blame him: a cast-iron bull-dog might have fainted.

Mrs. Hicok, thinking that her husband was struck dead by the lightning, screamed terribly.
Then she touched him; and, seeing what was really the matter, administered cold water from
the pitcher on the table. Shortly he revived.

“Where is he?” he said.

“I don’t know, love. I thought you were dead. He must have gone away. Did it strike the house?”

“Gone away? Thank God! Thank you, dear!” cried out the doctor.

Not knowing any adequate cause for so much emotion, she answered him--

“Now, love, don’t you ever say women are not practical again. That was a practical question,
you see. But didn’t it strike the house? What a queer smell. Ozone: isn’t that what you were
telling me about? How funny, that lightning should have a smell!”

“I believe there’s no doubt of it,” observed Dr. Hicok.

Mr. Apollo Lyon had really gone, though just how or when, nobody could say.

“My dear,” said Dr. Hicok, “I do so like that bonnet of yours! I don’t wonder it puzzled him.
It would puzzle the Devil himself. I firmly believe I shall call it your Devil-puzzler.”

But he never told her what the puzzle had been.

THE DEVIL’S ROUND[20]

A TALE OF FLEMISH GOLF

BY CHARLES DEULIN

    [20] From Longman’s Magazine, vol. xiv. [Copyright 1889 by
    Longmans, Green & Co., London & New York. By permission of
    the Publishers.]

     [The following story, translated by Miss Isabel Bruce from
     Le Grand Choleur of M. Charles Deulin (Contes du Roi
     Gambrinus), gives a great deal of information about French
     and Flemish golf. As any reader will see, this ancient game
     represents a stage of evolution between golf and hockey. The
     object is to strike a ball, in as few strokes as possible,
     to a given point; but, after every three strokes, the
     opponent is allowed to décholer, or make one stroke back,
     or into a hazard. Here the element of hockey comes in. Get
     rid of this element, let each man hit his own ball, and, in
     place of striking to a point--say, the cemetery gate--let
     men “putt” into holes, and the Flemish game becomes golf. It
     is of great antiquity. Ducange, in his Lexicon of Low Latin,
     gives Choulla, French choule = “Globulus ligneus qui
     clava propellitur”--a wooden ball struck with a club. The
     head of the club was of iron (cf. crossare). This is borne
     out by a miniature in a missal of 1504, which represents
     peasants playing choule with clubs very like niblicks.
     Ducange quotes various MS. references of 1353, 1357, and
     other dates older by a century than our earliest Scotch
     references to golf. At present the game is played in Belgium
     with a strangely-shaped lofting-iron and a ball of
     beechwood. M. Zola (Germinal, p. 310) represents his
     miners playing chole, or choulle, and says that they hit
     drives of more than 500 yards. Experiments made at Wimbledon
     with a Belgian club sent over by M. Charles Michel suggest
     that M. Zola has over-estimated the distance. But M. Zola
     and M. Deulin agree in making the players run after the
     ball. M. Henri Gaidoz adds that a similar game, called
     soule, is played in various departments of France. He
     refers to Laisnel de la Salle. The name chole may be
     connected with German Kolbe, and golf may be the form
     which this word would assume in a Celtic language. All this
     makes golf very old; but the question arises, Are the
     “holes” to which golfers play of Scotch or of Dutch origin?
     There are several old Flemish pictures of golf; do any of
     them show players in the act of “holing out”? There is said
     to be such a picture at Neuchâtel.

                                                     A. LANG.]

I

Once upon a time there lived at the hamlet of Coq, near Condé-sur-l’Escaut, a wheelwright called
Roger. He was a good fellow, untiring both at his sport and at his toil, and as skilful in
lofting a ball with a stroke of his club as in putting together a cartwheel. Every one knows
that the game of golf consists in driving towards a given point a ball of cherrywood with a
club which has for head a sort of little iron shoe without a heel.

For my part, I do not know a more amusing game; and when the country is almost cleared of the
harvest, men, women, children, everybody, drives his ball as you please, and there is nothing
cheerier than to see them filing on a Sunday like a flight of starlings across potato fields
and ploughed lands.

II

Well, one Tuesday, it was a Shrove Tuesday, the wheelwright of Coq laid aside his plane, and
was slipping on his blouse to go and drink his can of beer at Condé, when two strangers came
in, club in hand.

“Would you put a new shaft to my club, master?” said one of them.

“What are you asking me, friends? A day like this! I wouldn’t give the smallest stroke of the
chisel for a brick of gold. Besides, does any one play golf on Shrove Tuesday? You had much
better go and see the mummers tumbling in the high street of Condé.”

“We take no interest in the tumbling of mummers,” replied the stranger. “We have challenged
each other at golf and we want to play it out. Come, you won’t refuse to help us, you who are
said to be one of the finest players of the country?”

“If it is a match, that is different,” said Roger.

He turned up his sleeves, hooked on his apron, and in the twinkling of an eye had adjusted
the shaft.

“How much do I owe you?” asked the unknown, drawing out his purse.

“Nothing at all, faith; it is not worth while.”

The stranger insisted, but in vain.

III

“You are too honest, i’faith,” said he to the wheelwright, “for me to be in your debt. I will
grant you the fulfilment of three wishes.”

“Don’t forget to wish what is best,” added his companion.

At these words the wheelwright smiled incredulously.

“Are you not a couple of the loafers of Capelette?” he asked, with a wink.

The idlers of the crossways of Capelette were considered the wildest wags in Condé.

“Whom do you take us for?” replied the unknown in a tone of severity, and with his club he
touched an axle, made of iron, which instantly changed into one of pure silver.

“Who are you, then,” cried Roger, “that your word is as good as ready money?”

“I am St. Peter, and my companion is St. Antony, the patron of golfers.”

“Take the trouble to walk in, gentlemen,” said the wheelwright of Coq; and he ushered the two
saints into the back parlour. He offered them chairs, and went to draw a jug of beer in the
cellar. They clinked their glasses together, and after each had lit his pipe:

“Since you are so good, sir saints,” said Roger, “as to grant me the accomplishment of three
wishes, know that for a long while I have desired three things. I wish, first of all, that
whoever seats himself upon the elm-trunk at my door may not be able to rise without my permission.
I like company and it bores me to be always alone.”

St. Peter shook his head and St. Antony nudged his client.

IV

“When I play a game of cards, on Sunday evening, at the ‘Fighting Cock,’” continued the wheelwright,
“it is no sooner nine o’clock than the garde-champêtre comes to chuck us out. I desire that
whoever shall have his feet on my leathern apron cannot be driven from the place where I shall
have spread it.”

St. Peter shook his head, and St. Antony, with a solemn air, repeated:

“Don’t forget what is best.”

“What is best,” replied the wheelwright of Coq, nobly, “is to be the first golfer in the world.
Every time I find my master at golf it turns my blood as black as the inside of the chimney.
So I want a club that will carry the ball as high as the belfry of Condé, and will infallibly
win me my match.”

“So be it,” said St. Peter.

“You would have done better,” said St. Antony, “to have asked for your eternal salvation.”

“Bah!” replied the other. “I have plenty of time to think of that; I am not yet greasing my
boots for the long journey.”

The two saints went out and Roger followed them, curious to be present at such a rare game;
but suddenly, near the Chapel of St. Antony, they disappeared.

The wheelwright then went to see the mummers tumbling in the high street of Condé.

When he returned, towards midnight, he found at the corner of his door the desired club. To
his great surprise it was only a bad little iron head attached to a wretched worn-out shaft.
Nevertheless he took the gift of St. Peter and put it carefully away.

V

Next morning the Condéens scattered in crowds over the country, to play golf, eat red herrings,
and drink beer, so as to scatter the fumes of wine from their heads and to revive after the
fatigues of the Carnival. The wheelwright of Coq came too, with his miserable club, and made
such fine strokes that all the players left their games to see him play. The following Sunday
he proved still more expert; little by little his fame spread through the land. From ten leagues
round the most skilful players hastened to come and be beaten, and it was then that he was
named the Great Golfer.

He passed the whole Sunday in golfing, and in the evening he rested himself by playing a game
of matrimony at the “Fighting Cock.” He spread his apron under the feet of the players, and
the devil himself could not have put them out of the tavern, much less the rural policeman.
On Monday morning he stopped the pilgrims who were going to worship at Notre Dame de Bon Secours;
he induced them to rest themselves upon his causeuse, and did not let them go before he had
confessed them well.

In short, he led the most agreeable life that a good Fleming can imagine, and only regretted
one thing--namely, that he had not wished it might last for ever.

VI

Well, it happened one day that the strongest player of Mons, who was called Paternostre, was
found dead on the edge of a bunker. His head was broken, and near him was his niblick, red
with blood.

They could not tell who had done this business, and as Paternostre often said that at golf
he feared neither man nor devil, it occurred to them that he had challenged Mynheer van Belzébuth,
and that as a punishment for this he had knocked him on the head. Mynheer van Belzébuth is,
as every one knows, the greatest gamester that there is upon or under the earth, but the game
he particularly affects is golf. When he goes his round in Flanders one always meets him, club
in hand, like a true Fleming.

The wheelwright of Coq was very fond of Paternostre, who, next to himself, was the best golfer
in the country. He went to his funeral with some golfers from the hamlets of Coq, La Cigogne,
and La Queue de l’Ayache.

On returning from the cemetery they went to the tavern to drink, as they say, to the memory
of the dead,[21] and there they lost themselves in talk about the noble game of golf. When
they separated, in the dusk of evening:

    [21] Boire la cervelle du mort.

“A good journey to you,” said the Belgian players, “and may St. Antony, the patron of golfers,
preserve you from meeting the devil on the way!”

“What do I care for the devil?” replied Roger. “If he challenged me I should soon beat him!”

The companions trotted from tavern to tavern without misadventure; but the wolf-bell had long
tolled for retiring in the belfry of Condé when they returned each one to his own den.

VII

As he was putting the key into the lock the wheelwright thought he heard a shout of mocking
laughter. He turned, and saw in the darkness a man six feet high, who again burst out laughing.

“What are you laughing at?” said he, crossly.

“At what? Why, at the aplomb with which you boasted a little while ago that you would dare
measure yourself against the devil.”

“Why not, if he challenged me?”

“Very well, my master, bring your clubs. I challenge you!” said Mynheer van Belzébuth, for
it was himself. Roger recognized him by a certain odour of sulphur that always hangs about
his majesty.

“What shall the stake be?” he asked resolutely.

“Your soul?”

“Against what?”

“Whatever you please.”

The wheelwright reflected.

“What have you there in your sack?”

“My spoils of the week.”

“Is the soul of Paternostre among them?”

“To be sure! and those of five other golfers; dead, like him, without confession.”

“I play you my soul against that of Paternostre.”

“Done!”

VIII

The two adversaries repaired to the adjoining field and chose for their goal the door of the
cemetery of Condé.[22] Belzébuth teed a ball on a frozen heap, after which he said, according
to custom:

    [22] They play to points, not holes.

“From here, as you lie, in how many turns of three strokes will you run in?”

“In two,” replied the great golfer.

And his adversary was not a little surprised, for from there to the cemetery was nearly a quarter
of a league.

“But how shall we see the ball?” continued the wheelwright.

“True!” said Belzébuth.

He touched the ball with his club, and it shone suddenly in the dark like an immense glowworm.

“Fore!” cried Roger.

He hit the ball with the head of his club, and it rose to the sky like a star going to rejoin
its sisters. In three strokes it crossed three-quarters of the distance.

“That is good!” said Belzébuth, whose astonishment redoubled. “My turn to play now!”[23]

    [23] After each three strokes the opponent has one hit back,
    or into a hazard.

With one stroke of the club he drove the ball over the roofs of Coq nearly to Maison Blanche,
half a league away. The blow was so violent that the iron struck fire against a pebble.

“Good St. Antony! I am lost, unless you come to my aid,” murmured the wheelwright of Coq.

He struck tremblingly; but, though his arm was uncertain, the club seemed to have acquired
a new vigour. At the second stroke the ball went as if of itself and hit the door of the cemetery.

“By the horns of my grandfather!” cried Belzébuth, “it shall not be said that I have been beaten
by a son of that fool Adam. Give me my revenge.”

“What shall we play for?”

“Your soul and that of Paternostre against the souls of two golfers.”

IX

The devil played up, “pressing” furiously; his club blazed at each stroke with showers of sparks.
The ball flew from Condé to Bon-Secours, to Pernwelz, to Leuze. Once it spun away to Tournai,
six leagues from there.

It left behind a luminous tail like a comet, and the two golfers followed, so to speak, on
its track. Roger was never able to understand how he ran, or rather flew so fast, and without
fatigue.

In short, he did not lose a single game, and won the souls of the six defunct golfers. Belzébuth
rolled his eyes like an angry tom-cat.

“Shall we go on?” said the wheelwright of Coq.

“No,” replied the other; “they expect me at the Witches’ Sabbath on the hill of Copiémont.

“That brigand,” said he aside, “is capable of filching all my game.”

And he vanished.

Returned home, the great golfer shut up his souls in a sack and went to bed, enchanted to have
beaten Mynheer van Belzébuth.

X

Two years after the wheelwright of Coq received a visit which he little expected. An old man,
tall, thin and yellow, came into the workshop carrying a scythe on his shoulder.

“Are you bringing me your scythe to haft anew, master?”

“No, faith, my scythe is never unhafted.”

“Then how can I serve you?”

“By following me: your hour is come.”

“The devil,” said the great golfer, “could you not wait a little till I have finished this wheel?”

“Be it so! I have done hard work today and I have well earned a smoke.”

“In that case, master, sit down there on the causeuse. I have at your service some famous tobacco
at seven petards the pound.”

“That’s good, faith; make haste.”

And Death lit his pipe and seated himself at the door on the elm trunk.

Laughing in his sleeve, the wheelwright of Coq returned to his work. At the end of a quarter
of an hour Death called to him:

“Ho! faith, will you soon have finished?”

The wheelwright turned a deaf ear and went on planing, singing:

    “Attendez-moi sur l’orme;
     Vous m’attendrez longtemps.”

“I don’t think he hears me,” said Death. “Ho! friend, are you ready?”

    “Va-t-en voir s’ils viennent, Jean,
     Va-t-en voir s’ils viennent,”

replied the singer.

“Would the brute laugh at me?” said Death to himself.

And he tried to rise.

To his great surprise he could not detach himself from the causeuse. He then understood that
he was the sport of a superior power.

“Let us see,” he said to Roger. “What will you take to let me go? Do you wish me to prolong
your life ten years?”

    “J’ai de bon tabac dans ma tabatière,”

sang the great golfer.

“Will you take twenty years?”

    “Il pleut, il pleut, bergère;
     Rentre tes blancs moutons.”

“Will you take a fifty, wheelwright?--may the devil admire you!”

The wheelwright of Coq intoned:

    “Bon voyage, cher Dumollet,
     A Saint-Malo débarquez sans naufrage.”

In the meanwhile the clock of Condé had just struck four, and the boys were coming out of school.
The sight of this great dry heron of a creature who struggled on the causeuse, like a devil
in a holy-water pot, surprised and soon delighted them.

“Hein? How? What? Were you not speaking of an extension of a hundred years? I accept with all
my heart, master; but let us understand: I am not such a fool as to ask for the lengthening
of my old age.”

“Then what do you want?”

“From old age I only ask the experience which it gives by degrees. ‘Si jeunesse savait, si
vieillesse pouvait!’ says the proverb. At first he enjoyed perfect happiness, which was increased
by the certainty of its not ending for a hundred years. Thanks to his experience, he so well
understood the management of his affairs that he could leave his mallet and shut up shop.[24]

    [24] Vivre à porte close.

He experienced, nevertheless, an annoyance he had not foreseen. His wonderful skill at golf
ended by frightening the players whom he had at first delighted, and was the cause of his never
finding any one who would play against him.

He therefore quitted the canton and set out on his travels over French Flanders, Belgium, and
all the greens where the noble game of golf is held in honour. At the end of twenty years he
returned to Coq to be admired by a new generation of golfers, after which he departed to return
twenty years later.

Alas! in spite of its apparent charm, this existence before long became a burden to him. Besides
that, it bored him to win on every occasion; he was tired of passing like the Wandering Jew
through generations, and of seeing the sons, grandsons, and great-grandsons of his friends
grow old, and die out. He was constantly reduced to making new friendships which were undone
by the age or death of his fellows; all changed around him, he only did not change.

He grew impatient of this eternal youthfulness which condemned him to taste the same pleasures
for ever, and he sometimes longed to know the calmer joys of old age. One day he caught himself
at his looking-glass, examining whether his hair had not begun to grow white; nothing seemed
so beautiful to him now as the snow on the forehead of the old.

XII

In addition to this, experience soon made him so wise that he was no longer amused at anything.
If sometimes in the tavern he had a fancy for making use of his apron to pass the night at
cards: “What is the good of this excess?” whispered experience; “it is not sufficient to be
unable to shorten one’s days, one must also avoid making oneself ill.”

He reached the point of refusing himself the pleasure of drinking his pint and smoking his
pipe. Why, indeed, plunge into dissipations which enervate the body and dull the brain?

The wretch went further and gave up golf! Experience convinced him that the game is a dangerous
one, which overheats one, and is eminently adapted to produce colds, catarrhs, rheumatism,
and inflammation of the lungs.

Besides, what is the use, and what great glory is it to be reputed the first golfer in the world?

Of what use is glory itself? A vain hope, vain as the smoke of a pipe.

When experience had thus bereft him one by one of his delusions, the unhappy golfer became
mortally weary. He saw that he had deceived himself, that delusion has its price, and that
the greatest charm of youth is perhaps its inexperience.

He thus arrived at the term agreed on in the contract, and as he had not had a paradise here
below, he sought through his hardly-acquired wisdom a clever way of conquering one above.

XIII

Death found him at Coq at work in his shop. Experience had at least taught him that work is
the most lasting of pleasures.

“Are you ready?” said Death.

“I am.”

He took his club, put a score of balls in his pocket, threw his sack over his shoulder, and
buckled his gaiters without taking off his apron.

“What do you want your club for?”

“Why, to golf in paradise with my patron St. Antony.”

“Do you fancy, then, that I am going to conduct you to paradise?”

“You must, as I have half-a-dozen souls to carry there, that I once saved from the clutches
of Belzébuth.”

“Better have saved your own. En route, cher Dumollet!”

The great golfer saw that the old reaper bore him a grudge, and that he was going to conduct
him to the paradise of the lost.[25]

    [25] Noires glaives.

Indeed a quarter of an hour later the two travellers knocked at the gate of hell.

“Toc, toc!”

“Who is there?”

“The wheelwright of Coq,” said the great golfer.

“Don’t open the door,” cried Belzébuth; “that rascal wins at every turn; he is capable of depopulating
my empire.”

Roger laughed in his sleeve.

“Oh! you are not saved,” said Death. “I am going to take you where you won’t be cold either.”

Quicker than a beggar would have emptied a poor’s box they were in purgatory.

“Toc--toc!”

“Who is there?”

“The wheelwright of Coq,” said the great golfer.

“But he is in a state of mortal sin,” cried the angel on duty. “Take him away from here--he
can’t come in.”

“I cannot, all the same, let him linger between heaven and earth,” said Death; “I shall shunt
him back to Coq.”

“Where they will take me for a ghost. Thank you! is there not still paradise?”

XIV

They were there at the end of a short hour.

“Toc, toc!”

“Who is there?”

“The wheelwright of Coq,” said the great golfer.

“Ah! my lad,” said St. Peter, half opening the door, “I am really grieved. St. Antony told
you long ago you had better ask for the salvation of your soul.”

“That is true, St. Peter,” replied Roger with a sheepish air. “And how is he, that blessed
St. Antony? Could I not come in for one moment to return the visit he once paid me?”

“Why, here he comes,” said St. Peter, throwing the door wide open.

In the twinkling of an eye the sly golfer had flung himself into paradise, unhooked his apron,
let it fall to the ground, and seated himself down on it.

“Good morning, St. Antony,” said he with a fine salute. “You see I had plenty of time to think
of paradise, for here we are!”

“What! You here!” cried St. Antony.

“Yes, I and my company,” replied Roger, opening his sack and scattering on the carpet the souls
of the six golfers.

“Will you have the goodness to pack right off, all of you?”

“Impossible,” said the great golfer, showing his apron.

“The rogue has made game of us,” said St. Antony. “Come, St. Peter, in memory of our game of
golf, let him in with his souls. Besides, he has had his purgatory on earth.”

“It is not a very good precedent,” murmured St. Peter.

“Bah!” replied Roger, “if we have a few good golfers in paradise, where is the harm?”

XV

Thus, after having lived long, golfed much and drunk many cans of beer, the wheelwright of
Coq called the Great Golfer was admitted to paradise; but I advise no one to copy him, for
it is not quite the right way to go, and St. Peter might not always be so compliant, though
great allowances must be made for golfers.

THE LEGEND OF MONT ST.-MICHEL

BY GUY DE MAUPASSANT

I had first seen it from Cancale, this fairy castle in the sea.

THE DEMON POPE[26]

BY RICHARD GARNETT

    [26] Taken by permission from The Twilight of the Gods, by
    Richard Garnett. Published by John Lane Co., New York. Out!

LUCIFER[28]

BY ANATOLE FRANCE

    [28] Taken by permission from The Well of St. Claire, by
    Anatole France, translated by Alfred Allinson. Published,
    1909, by John Lane Co., New York.

THE DEVIL[30]

BY MAXIM GORKY

    [30] From the National Magazine, vol. XV. By permission of
    the Editor and Translator.

Life is a burden in the Fall,--the sad season of decay and death!

The grey days, the weeping, sunless sky, the dark nights, the growling, whining wind, the heavy,
black autumn shadows--all that drives clouds of gloomy thoughts over the human soul, and fills
it with a mysterious fear of life where nothing is permanent, all is in an eternal flux; things
are born, decay, die ... why? ... for what purpose?...

Sometimes the strength fails us to battle against the tenebrous thoughts that enfold the soul
late in the autumn, therefore those who want to assuage their bitterness ought to meet them
half way. This is the only way by which they will escape from the chaos of despair and doubt,
and will enter on the terra firma of self-confidence.

But it is a laborious path, it leads through thorny brambles that lacerate the living heart,
and on that path the devil always lies in ambush. It is that best of all the devils, with whom
the great Goethe has made us acquainted....

My story is about that devil.

       *       *       *       *       *

The devil suffered from ennui.

He is too wise to ridicule everything.

He knows that there are phenomena of life which the devil himself is not able to rail at; for
example, he has never applied the sharp scalpel of his irony to the majestic fact of his existence.
To tell the truth, our favourite devil is more bold than clever, and if we were to look more
closely at him, we might discover that, like ourselves, he wastes most of his time on trifles.
But we had better leave that alone; we are not children that break their best toys in order
to discover what is in them.

The devil once wandered over the cemetery in the darkness of an autumn night: he felt lonely
and whistled softly as he looked around himself in search of a distraction. He whistled an
old song--my father’s favourite song,--

    “When, in autumnal days,
    A leaf from its branch is torn
    And on high by the wind is borne.”

And the wind sang with him, soughing over the graves and among the black crosses, and heavy
autumnal clouds slowly crawled over the heaven and with their cold tears watered the narrow
dwellings of the dead. The mournful trees in the cemetery timidly creaked under the strokes
of the wind and stretched their bare branches to the speechless clouds. The branches were now
and then caught by the crosses, and then a dull, shuffling, awful sound passed over the churchyard....

The devil was whistling, and he thought:

“I wonder how the dead feel in such weather! No doubt, the dampness goes down to them, and
although they are secure against rheumatism ever since the day of their death, yet, I suppose,
they do not feel comfortable. How, if I called one of them up and had a talk with him? It would
be a little distraction for me, and, very likely, for him also. I will call him! Somewhere
around here they have buried an old friend of mine, an author.... I used to visit him when
he was alive ... why not renew our acquaintance? People of his kind are dreadfully exacting.
I shall find out whether the grave satisfies him completely. But where is his grave?”

And the devil who, as is well known, knows everything, wandered for a long time about the cemetery,
before he found the author’s grave....

“Oh there!” he called out as he knocked with his claws at the heavy stone under which his acquaintance
was put away.

“Get up!”

“What for?” came the dull answer from below.

“I need you.”

“I won’t get up.”

“Why?”

“Who are you, anyway?”

“You know me.”

“The censor?”

“Ha, ha, ha! No!”

“Maybe a secret policeman?”

“No, no!”

“Not a critic, either?”

“I am the devil.”

“Well, I’ll be out in a minute.”

The stone lifted itself from the grave, the earth burst open, and a skeleton came out of it.
It was a very common skeleton, just the kind that students study anatomy by: only it was dirty,
had no wire connections, and in the empty sockets there shone a blue phosphoric light instead
of eyes. It crawled out of the ground, shook its bones in order to throw off the earth that
stuck to them, making a dry, rattling noise with them, and raising up its skull, looked with
its cold, blue eyes at the murky, cloud-covered sky. “I hope you are well!” said the devil.

“How can I be?” curtly answered the author. He spoke in a strange, low voice, as if two bones
were grating against each other.

“Oh, excuse my greeting!” the devil said pleasantly.

“Never mind!... But why have you raised me?”

“I just wanted to take a walk with you, though the weather is very bad.

“I suppose you are not afraid of catching a cold?” asked the devil.

“Not at all, I got used to catching colds during my lifetime.”

“Yes, I remember, you died pretty cold.”

“I should say I did! They had poured enough cold water over me all my life.”

They walked beside each other over the narrow path, between graves and crosses. Two blue beams
fell from the author’s eyes upon the ground and lit the way for the devil. A drizzling rain
sprinkled over them, and the wind freely passed between the author’s bare ribs and through
his breast where there was no longer a heart.

“We are going to town?” he asked the devil.

“What interests you there?”

“Life, my dear sir,” the author said impassionately.

“What! It still has a meaning for you?”

“Indeed it has!”

“But why?”

“How am I to say it? A man measures all by the quantity of his effort, and if he carries a
common stone down from the summit of Ararat, that stone becomes a gem to him.”

“Poor fellow!” smiled the devil.

“But also happy man!” the author retorted coldly.

The devil shrugged his shoulders.

They left the churchyard, and before them lay a street,--two rows of houses, and between them
was darkness in which the miserable lamps clearly proved the want of light upon earth.

“Tell me,” the devil spoke after a pause, “how do you like your grave?”

“Now I am used to it, and it is all right: it is very quiet there.”

“Is it not damp down there in the Fall?” asked the devil.

“A little. But you get used to that. The greatest annoyance comes from those various idiots
who ramble over the cemetery and accidentally stumble on my grave. I don’t know how long I
have been lying in my grave, for I and everything around me is unchangeable, and the concept
of time does not exist for me.”

“You have been in the ground four years,--it will soon be five,” said the devil.

“Indeed? Well then, there have been three people at my grave during that time. Those accursed
people make me nervous. One, you see, straight away denied the fact of my existence: he read
my name on the tombstone and said confidently: ‘There never was such a man! I have never read
him, though I remember such a name: when I was a boy, there lived a man of that name who had
a broker’s shop in our street.’ How do you like that? And my articles appeared for sixteen
years in the most popular periodicals, and three times during my lifetime my books came out
in separate editions.”

“There were two more editions since your death,” the devil informed him.

“Well, you see? Then came two, and one of them said: ‘Oh, that’s that fellow!’ ‘Yes, that is
he!’ answered the other. ‘Yes, they used to read him in the auld lang syne.’ ‘They read a lot
of them.’ ‘What was it he preached?’ ‘Oh, generally, ideas of beauty, goodness, and so forth.’
‘Oh, yes, I remember.’ ‘He had a heavy tongue.’ ‘There is a lot of them in the ground:--yes,
Russia is rich in talents’ ... And those asses went away. It is true, warm words do not raise
the temperature of the grave, and I do not care for that, yet it hurts me. And oh, how I wanted
to give them a piece of my mind!”

“You ought to have given them a fine tongue-lashing!” smiled the devil.

“No, that would not have done. On the verge of the twentieth century it would be absurd for
dead people to scold, and, besides, it would be hard on the materialists.”

The devil again felt the ennui coming over him.

This author had always wished in his lifetime to be a bridegroom at all weddings and a corpse
at all burials, and now that all is dead in him, his egotism is still alive. Is man of any
importance to life? Of importance is only the human spirit, and only the spirit deserves applause
and recognition.... How annoying people are! The devil was on the point of proposing to the
author to return to his grave, when an idea flashed through his evil head. They had just reached
a square, and heavy masses of buildings surrounded them on all sides. The dark, wet sky hung
low over the square; it seemed as though it rested on the roofs and murkily looked at the dirty
earth.

“Say,” said the devil as he inclined pleasantly towards the author, “don’t you want to know
how your wife is getting on?”

“I don’t know whether I want to,” the author spoke slowly.

“I see, you are a thorough corpse!” called out the devil to annoy him.

“Oh, I don’t know?” said the author and jauntily shook his bones. “I don’t mind seeing her;
besides, she will not see me, or if she will, she cannot recognize me!”

“Of course!” the devil assured him.

“You know, I only said so because she did not like for me to go away long from home,” explained
the author.

And suddenly the wall of a house disappeared or became as transparent as glass. The author
saw the inside of large apartments, and it was so light and cosy in them.

“Elegant appointments!” he grated his bones approvingly: “Very fine appointments! If I had
lived in such rooms, I would be alive now.”

“I like it, too,” said the devil and smiled. “And it is not expensive--it only costs some three
thousands.”

“Hem, that not expensive? I remember my largest work brought me 815 roubles, and I worked over
it a whole year. But who lives here?”

“Your wife,” said the devil.

“I declare! That is good ... for her.”

“Yes, and here comes her husband.”

“She is so pretty now, and how well she is dressed! Her husband, you say? What a fine looking
fellow! Rather a bourgeois phiz,--kind, but somewhat stupid! He looks as if he might be cunning,--well,
just the face to please a woman.”

“Do you want me to heave a sigh for you?” the devil proposed and looked maliciously at the
author. But he was taken up with the scene before him.

“What happy, jolly faces both have! They are evidently satisfied with life. Tell me, does she
love him?”

“Oh, yes, very much!”

“And who is he?”

“A clerk in a millinery shop.”

“A clerk in a millinery shop,” the author repeated slowly and did not utter a word for some
time. The devil looked at him and smiled a merry smile.

“Do you like that?” he asked.

The author spoke with an effort:

“I had some children.... I know they are alive.... I had some children ... a son and a daughter....
I used to think then that my son would turn out in time a good man....”

“There are plenty of good men, but what the world needs is perfect men,” said the devil coolly
and whistled a jolly march.

“I think the clerk is probably a poor pedagogue ... and my son....”

The author’s empty skull shook sadly.

“Just look how he is embracing her! They are living an easy life!” exclaimed the devil.

“Yes. Is that clerk a rich man?”

“No, he was poorer than I, but your wife is rich.”

“My wife? Where did she get the money from?”

“From the sale of your books!”

“Oh!” said the author and shook his bare and empty skull. “Oh! Then it simply means that I
have worked for a certain clerk?”

“I confess it looks that way,” the devil chimed in merrily.

The author looked at the ground and said to the devil: “Take me back to my grave!”

... It was late. A rain fell, heavy clouds hung in the sky, and the author rattled his bones
as he marched rapidly to his grave.... The devil walked behind him and whistled merrily.

       *       *       *       *       *

My reader is, of course, dissatisfied. My reader is surfeited with literature, and even the
people that write only to please him, are rarely to his taste. In the present case my reader
is also dissatisfied because I have said nothing about hell. As my reader is justly convinced
that after death he will find his way there, he would like to know something about hell during
his lifetime. Really, I can’t tell anything pleasant to my reader on that score, because there
is no hell, no fiery hell which it is so easy to imagine. Yet, there is something else and
infinitely more terrible.

The moment the doctor will have said about you to your friends: “He is dead!” you will enter
an immeasurable, illuminated space, and that is the space of the consciousness of your mistakes.

You lie in the grave, in a narrow coffin, and your miserable life rotates about you like a wheel.

It moves painfully slow, and passes before you from your first conscious step to the last moment
of your life.

You will see all that you have hidden from yourself during your lifetime, all the lies and
meanness of your existence: you will think over anew all your past thoughts, and you will see
every wrong step of yours,--all your life will be gone over, to its minutest details!

And to increase your torments, you will know that on that narrow and stupid road which you
have traversed, others are marching, and pushing each other, and hurrying, and lying.... And
you understand that they are doing it all only to find out in time how shameful it is to live
such a wretched, soulless life.

And though you see them hastening on towards their destruction, you are in no way able to warn
them: you will not move nor cry, and your helpless desire to aid them will tear your soul to
pieces.

Your life passes before you, and you see it from the start, and there is no end to the work
of your conscience, and there will be no end ... and to the horror of your torments there will
never be an end ... never!

THE DEVIL AND THE OLD MAN[31]

BY JOHN MASEFIELD

    [31] From A Mainsail Haul, by John Masefield [Copyright
    1913 by The Macmillan Company. Reprinted by permission of the
    Author and the Publishers.]

Up away north, in the old days, in Chester, there was a man who never throve. Nothing he put
his hand to ever prospered, and as his state worsened, his friends fell away, and he grew desperate.
So one night when he was alone in his room, thinking of the rent due in two or three days and
the money he couldn’t scrape together, he cried out, “I wish I could sell my soul to the devil
like that man the old books tell about.”

Now just as he spoke the clock struck twelve, and, while it chimed, a sparkle began to burn
about the room, and the air, all at once, began to smell of brimstone, and a voice said:

“Will these terms suit you?”

He then saw that some one had just placed a parchment there. He picked it up and read it through;
and being in despair, and not knowing what he was doing, he answered, “Yes,” and looked round
for a pen.

“Take and sign,” said the voice again, “but first consider what it is you do; do nothing rashly.
Consider.”

So he thought awhile; then “Yes,” he said, “I’ll sign,” and with that he groped for the pen.

“Blood from your left thumb and sign,” said the voice.

So he pricked his left thumb and signed.

“Here is your earnest money,” said the voice, “nine and twenty silver pennies. This day twenty
years hence I shall see you again.”

Now early next morning our friend came to himself and felt like one of the drowned. “What a
dream I’ve had,” he said. Then he woke up and saw the nine and twenty silver pennies and smelt
a faint smell of brimstone.

So he sat in his chair there, and remembered that he had sold his soul to the devil for twenty
years of heart’s-desire; and whatever fears he may have had as to what might come at the end
of those twenty years, he found comfort in the thought that, after all, twenty years is a good
stretch of time, and that throughout them he could eat, drink, merrymake, roll in gold, dress
in silk, and be care-free, heart at ease and jib-sheet to windward.

So for nineteen years and nine months he lived in great state, having his heart’s desire in
all things; but, when his twenty years were nearly run through, there was no wretcheder man
in all the world than that poor fellow. So he threw up his house, his position, riches, everything,
and away he went to the port of Liverpool, where he signed on as A. B., aboard a Black Ball
packet, a tea clipper, bound to the China seas.

They made a fine passage out, and when our friend had only three days more, they were in the
Indian Ocean lying lazy, becalmed.

Now it was his wheel that forenoon, and it being dead calm, all he had to do was just to think
of things; the ship of course having no way on her.

So he stood there, hanging on to the spokes, groaning and weeping till, just twenty minutes
or so before eight bells were made, up came the Captain for a turn on deck.

He went aft, of course, took a squint aloft, and saw our friend crying at the wheel. “Hello,
my man,” he says, “why, what’s all this? Ain’t you well? You’d best lay aft for a dose o’salts
at four bells tonight.”

“No, Cap’n,” said the man, “there’s no salts’ll ever cure my sickness.”

“Why, what’s all this?” says the old man. “You must be sick if it’s as bad as all that. But
come now; your cheek is all sunk, and you look as if you ain’t slept well. What is it ails
you, anyway? Have you anything on your mind?”

“Captain,” he answers very solemn, “I have sold my soul to the devil.”

“Oh,” said the old man, “why, that’s bad. That’s powerful bad. I never thought them sort of
things ever happened outside a book.”

“But,” said our friend, “that’s not the worst of it, Captain. At this time three days hence
the devil will fetch me home.”

“Good Lord!” groaned the old man. “Here’s a nice hurrah’s nest to happen aboard my ship. But
come now,” he went on, “did the devil give you no chance--no saving-clause like? Just think
quietly for a moment.”

“Yes, Captain,” said our friend, “just when I made the deal, there came a whisper in my ear.
And,” he said, speaking very quietly, so as not to let the mate hear, “if I can give the devil
three jobs to do which he cannot do, why, then, Captain,” he says, “I’m saved, and that deed
of mine is cancelled.”

Well, at this the old man grinned and said, “You just leave things to me, my son. I’ll fix
the devil for you. Aft there, one o’ you, and relieve the wheel. Now you run forrard, and have
a good watch below, and be quite easy in your mind, for I’ll deal with the devil for you. You
rest and be easy.”

And so that day goes by, and the next, and the one after that, and the one after that was the
day the Devil was due.

Soon as eight bells was made in the morning watch, the old man called all hands aft.

“Men,” he said, “I’ve got an all-hands job for you this forenoon.”

“Mr. Mate,” he cried, “get all hands on to the main-tops’l halliards and bowse the sail stiff
up and down.”

So they passed along the halliards, and took the turns off, and old John Chantyman piped up--

    There’s a Black Ball clipper
    Comin’ down the river.

And away the yard went to the mast-head till the bunt-robands jammed in the sheave.

“Very well that,” said the old man. “Now get my dinghy off o’ the half-deck and let her drag
alongside.”

So they did that, too.

“Very well that,” said the old man. “Now forrard with you, to the chain-locker, and rouse out
every inch of chain you find there.”

So forrard they went, and the chain was lighted up and flaked along the deck all clear for running.

“Now, Chips,” says the old man to the carpenter, “just bend the spare anchor to the end of
that chain, and clear away the fo’c’s’le rails ready for when we let go.”

So they did this, too.

“Now,” said the old man, “get them tubs of slush from the galley. Pass that slush along there,
doctor. Very well that. Now turn to, all hands, and slush away every link in that chain a good
inch thick in grease.”

So they did that, too, and wondered what the old man meant.

“Very well that,” cries the old man. “Now get below all hands! Chips, on to the fo’c’s’le head
with you and stand by! I’ll keep the deck, Mr. Mate! Very well that.”

So all hands tumbled down below; Chips took a fill o’ baccy to leeward of the capstan, and
the old man walked the weather-poop looking for a sign of hell-fire.

It was still dead calm--but presently, towards six bells, he raised a black cloud away to leeward,
and saw the glimmer of the lightning in it; only the flashes were too red, and came too quick.

“Now,” says he to himself, “stand by.”

Very soon that black cloud worked up to windward, right alongside, and there came a red flash,
and a strong sulphurous smell, and then a loud peal of thunder as the devil steps aboard.

“Mornin’, Cap’n,” says he.

“Mornin’, Mr. Devil,” says the old man, “and what in blazes do you want aboard my ship?”

“Why, Captain,” said the devil, “I’ve come for the soul of one of your hands as per signed
agreement: and, as my time’s pretty full up in these wicked days, I hope you won’t keep me
waiting for him longer than need be.”

“Well, Mr. Devil,” says the old man, “the man you come for is down below, sleeping, just at
this moment. It’s a fair pity to call him up till it’s right time. So supposin’ I set you them
three tasks. How would that be? Have you any objections?”

“Why, no,” said the devil, “fire away as soon as you like.”

“Mr. Devil,” said the old man, “you see that main-tops’l yard? Suppose you lay out on that
main-tops’l yard and take in three reefs singlehanded.”

“Ay, ay, sir,” the devil said, and he ran up the rat-lines, into the top, up the topmast rigging
and along the yard.

Well, when he found the sail stiff up and down, he hailed the deck:

“Below there! On deck there! Lower away ya halliards!”

“I will not,” said the old man, “nary a lower.”

“Come up your sheets, then,” cries the devil. “This main-topsail’s stiff up-and-down. How’m
I to take in three reefs when the sail’s stiff up-and-down?”

“Why,” said the old man, “you can’t do it. Come out o’ that! Down from aloft, you hoof-footed
son. That’s one to me.”

“Yes,” says the devil, when he got on deck again, “I don’t deny it, Cap’n. That’s one to you.”

“Now, Mr. Devil,” said the old man, going towards the rail, “suppose you was to step into that
little boat alongside there. Will you please?”

“Ay, ay, sir,” he said, and he slid down the forrard fall, got into the stern sheets, and sat down.

“Now, Mr. Devil,” said the skipper, taking a little salt spoon from his vest pocket, “supposin’
you bail all the water on that side the boat on to this side the boat, using this spoon as
your dipper.”

Well!--the devil just looked at him.

“Say!” he said at length, “which of the New England States d’ye hail from anyway?”

“Not Jersey, anyway,” said the old man. “That’s two up, alright; ain’t it, sonny?”

“Yes,” growls the devil, as he climbs aboard. “That’s two up. Two to you and one to play. Now,
what’s your next contraption?”

“Mr. Devil,” said the old man, looking very innocent, “you see, I’ve ranged my chain ready
for letting go anchor. Now Chips is forrard there, and when I sing out, he’ll let the anchor
go. Supposin’ you stopper the chain with them big hands o’ yourn and keep it from running out
clear. Will you, please?”

So the devil takes off his coat and rubs his hands together, and gets away forrard by the bitts,
and stands by.

“All ready, Cap’n,” he says.

“All ready, Chips?” asked the old man.

“All ready, sir,” replies Chips.

“Then, stand by--Let go the anchor,” and clink, clink, old Chips knocks out the pin, and away
goes the spare anchor and greased chain into a five mile deep of God’s sea. As I said, they
were in the Indian Ocean.

Well--there was the devil, making a grab here and a grab there, and the slushy chain just slipping
through his claws, and at whiles a bight of chain would spring clear and rap him in the eye.

So at last the cable was nearly clean gone, and the devil ran to the last big link (which was
seized to the heel of the foremast), and he put both his arms through it, and hung on to it
like grim death.

But the chain gave such a Yank when it came-to, that the big link carried away, and oh, roll
and go, out it went through the hawsehole, in a shower of bright sparks, carrying the devil
with it. There is no devil now. The devil’s dead.

As for the old man, he looked over the bows watching the bubbles burst, but the devil never
rose. Then he went to the fo’c’s’le scuttle and banged thereon with a hand-spike.

“Rouse out, there, the port watch!” he called, “an’ get my dinghy inboard.”

NOTES

THE DEVIL IN A NUNNERY

BY FRANCIS OSCAR MANN

According to a German legend, the devil is master of all arts, and certainly he has given sufficient
proof of his musical talent. Certain Church Fathers ascribed, not without good reason, the
origin of music to Satan. “The Devil,” says Mr. Huneker in his diabolical story “The Supreme
Sin” (1920), “is the greatest of all musicians,” and Rowland Hill long ago admitted the fact
that the devil has all the good tunes. Perhaps his greatest composition is the Sonata del Diavolo,
which Tartini wrote down in 1713. This diabolical master-piece is the subject of Gérard de
Nerval’s story La Sonate du Diable (1830). While the devil plays all instruments equally well,
he seems to prefer the violin. Satan appears as fiddler in the poem “Der Teufel mit der Geige,”
which has been ascribed to the Swiss anti-Papist Pamphilus Gengenbach of the sixteenth century.
In Leanu’s Faust (1836) Mephistopheles takes the violin out of the hands of one of the musicians
at a peasant-wedding and plays a diabolical czardas, which fills the hearts of all who hear
it with voluptuousness. An opera Un Violon du Diable was played in Paris in 1849. The Devil’s
Violin, an extravaganza in verse by Benjamin Webster, was performed the same year in London.
In his story “Les Tentations ou Eros, Plutus et la Gloire” Baudelaire presents the Demon of
Love as holding in his left hand a violin “which without doubt served to sing his pleasures
and pains.” The devil also appears as limping fiddler in a California legend, which appeared
under the title “The Devil’s Fiddle” in a Californian magazine in 1855. Death, the devil’s
first cousin, if not his alter ego, has the souls, in the Dance of Death, march off to hell
to a merry tune on his violin. Death appears as a musician also in the Piper of Hamlin. In
this legend, well known to the English world through Browning’s poem “Pied Piper of Hamelin”
(1843) and Miss Peabody’s play The Piper (1909), the rats are the human souls, which Death
charms with his music into following him. In the Middle Ages the soul was often represented
as leaving the body in the form of a mouse. The soul of a good man comes out of his mouth as
a white mouse, while at the death of a sinner the soul escapes as a black mouse, which the
devil catches and brings to hell. Mephistopheles, it will be recalled, calls himself “the lord
of rats and mice” (Faust, 1, 1516). Devil-Death has inherited this wind instrument from the
goat-footed Pan.

“The Devil is more busy in the convents,” we are told by J. K. Huysmans in his novel En route
(1895), “than in the cities, as he has a harder job on hand.”

BELPHAGOR

BY NICCOLÒ MACHIAVELLI

This story of the devil Belphagor, who was sent by his infernal chief Pluto up to earth, where
he married an earthly wife, but finally left her in disgust to go back to hell, is also of
mediaeval origin. It was first printed by Giovanni Brevio in 1545, and appeared for the second
time with the name of Machiavelli in 1549, twenty-two years after the death of the diabolical
statesman. The two authors did not borrow from each other, but had a common source in a mediaeval
Latin manuscript, which seems to have first fallen into the hands of Italians, but was later
brought to France where it has been lost. The tale of the marriage of the devil appeared in
several other Italian versions during the sixteenth century. Among the Italian novelists, who
retold it for the benefit of their married friends, may be mentioned Giovan-Francesco Straparola,
Francesco Sansovino, and Gabriel Chappuys. In England this story was no less popular. Barnabe
Riche inserted it in his collection of narratives in 1581, and we meet it again later in the
following plays: Grim, the Collier of Croydon, ascribed to Ulpian Fulwell (1599); The Devil
and his Dame by P. M. Houghton (1600); Machiavel and the Devil by Daborne and Henslowe (1613);
The Devil is an Ass by Ben Jonson (1616); and Belphagor, or the Marriage of the Devil (1690).
In France the story was treated in verse by La Fontaine (1694), and in Germany it served the
Nuremberg poet Hans Sachs as the subject for a farce (1557).

The Encyclopaedia Britannica is authority for the statement that Machiavelli’s own married
life had nothing to do with the plot of his story.

“The notion of this story is ingenious, and might have been made productive of entertaining
incident, had Belphagor been led by his connubial connections from one crime to another. But
Belphagor is only unfortunate, and in no respect guilty; nor did anything occur during his
abode on earth that testified to the power of woman in leading us to final condemnation. The
story of the peasant and the possession of the princesses bears no reference to the original
idea with which the tale commences, and has no connection with the object of the infernal deputy’s
terrestrial sojourn” (J. C. Dunlop, History of Fiction). To this criticism Mr. Thomas Roscoe
replies that “part of the humour of the story seems to consist in Belphagor’s earthly career
being cut short before he had served the full term of his apprenticeship. But from the follies
and extravagances into which he had already plunged, we are now authorized to believe that,
even if he had been able longer to support the asperities of the lady’s temper, he must, from
the course he was pursuing, have been led from crime to crime, or at least from folly to folly,
to such a degree that he would infallibly have been condemned” (T. Roscoe, Italian Novelists).

The demon of Machiavelli offers no features of a deep psychology, but he distinguishes himself
from the other demons of his period by his elegant manners. Like creator, like creature.

Belphagor, the god of the Moabites, like all other pagan gods, joined the infernal forces of
Satan when driven off the earth by the Church Triumphant.

The parliament of devils, which we find in this story, was taken from the mystery-plays where
the ruler of hell is represented as holding occasional receptions when he listens to the reports
of their recent achievements on his behalf, and consults their opinion on matters of state.
Satan, who has always wished to rival God, has instituted the infernal council in imitation
of the celestial council described in the Book of Job. The source for the parliament of devils
is the apocryphal book Evangelium Nicodemi. An early metrical tract under the title of the
Parlement of Devils was printed two or three times in London about 1520. A “Pandemonium” is
also found in Tasso, Milton, and Chateaubriand. The Parlement of Foules (14th century) is but
a modification of the Parlement of Devils, for the devil and the fool were originally identical
in person and may be traced back to the demonic clown of the ancient heathen cult (cf. the
present writer’s book, The Origin of the German Carnival Comedy, p. 37). A far echo is Thomas
Chatterton’s poem The Parliament of Sprites.

This story recalls to us the saying that the heart of a beautiful woman is the most beloved
hiding-place of at least seven devils.

THE DEVIL AND TOM WALKER

BY WASHINGTON IRVING

By his interest in popular legends the first of the great American writers shows his sympathy
with the Romantic movement, which prevailed in his time in all the countries of Europe. His
devil, however, has not been imported from the lands across the Atlantic, but is a part of
the superstitions of the New World. The author himself did not believe in “Old Scratch.” The
real devils for him were the slave-traders and the witch-hunters of Salem fame. It is interesting
now to read a contemporary critic of Washington Irving’s devil-story: “If Mr. Irving believes
in the existence of Tom Walker’s master, we can scarcely conceive how he can so earnestly jest
about him; at all events, we would counsel him to beware lest his own spells should prove fatal
to him” (Eclectic Review, 1825). Few people in those days had the courage to take Old Nick
good-naturedly. “Even the clever Madame de Staël,” said Goethe, “was greatly scandalized that
I kept the devil in such good-humour.”

The devil appears in many colours, principally, however, in black and red. It is a common belief
in Scotland that the devil is a black man, as may also be seen in Robert Louis Stevenson’s
story “Thrawn Janet.” There is no warrant in the biblical tradition for a black devil. Satan,
however, appeared as an Ethiopian as far back as the days of the Church Fathers. The black
colour presumably is intended to suggest his place of abode, whereas red denotes the scorching
fires of hell. The devil was considered as a sort of eternal Salamander. In the New Testament
he is described as a fiery fiend. Red was considered by Oriental nations as a diabolical colour.
In Egypt red hair and red animals of all kinds were considered infernal. The Apis was also
red-coloured. Satan’s red beard recalls the Scandinavian god Donar or Thor, who is of Phoenician
origin. Judas was always represented in mediaeval mystery-plays with a red beard; and down
to the present day red hair is the mark of a suspicious character. The devil also appears as
yellow, and even blue, but never as white or green. The yellow devil is but a shade less bright
than his fiery brother. The blue devil is a sulphur-constitutioned individual. He is the demon
of melancholy, and fills us with “the blues.” As the spirit of darkness and death, the devil
cannot assume the colours of white or green, which are the symbols of light and life. The devil’s
dragon-tail is, according to Sir Walter Scott, of biblical tradition, coming from a literal
interpretation of a figurative expression.

A few interesting remarks on the expression “The Devil and Tom Walker” current in certain parts
of this country as a caution to usurers will be found in Dr. Blondheim’s article “The Devil
and Doctor Foster” in Modern Language Notes for 1918.

FROM THE MEMOIRS OF SATAN

BY WILHELM HAUFF

Wilhelm Hauff, the author of this book, ranks honourably among the members of the Romantic
School in Germany. As the work of a man of only twenty-two years, just out of the university,
the book is a credit to its author. It must be admitted, however, that it was not altogether
original with him. The idea was taken from E. Th. A. Hoffmann,--Devil-Hoffmann, as he was called
by his contemporaries,--who in his short-story “Der Teufel in Berlin” also has the devil travel
incognito in Germany; and the title was borrowed from Jean Paul Richter, who also claimed to
edit Selections from the Devil’s Papers (Auswahl aus des Teufels Papieren, 1789). There were
others, too, who claimed to have been honoured by his Satanic Majesty to edit his “journal.”
J. R. Beard, a Unitarian minister, published in 1872 an Autobiography of Satan. Another autobiography
of Satan is said to have been found among the posthumous works of Leonid Andréev, author of
that original diabolical work Anathema, a tragedy (Engl. tr. 1910). This book has just appeared
in English under the title Satan’s Diary. Frédéric Soulié’s Les Mémoires du Diable (1837/8)
consist of memoirs not of the devil himself, but of other people, which the Count de Luizzi,
the human partner to the diabolical pact, is very anxious to know. Hauff’s book consists of
a series of papers, which are but loosely connected. In certain passages we hear nothing of
the autobiographer. The Suavian writer apparently could digest the Diabolical only in homeopathic
doses. His Satan, moreover, is a very youthful and quite harmless devil. He is nothing but
a personified echo of the author’s student-days. The book by Hauff is perhaps the most popular
personification of the devil in German literature.

The passage presented here shows the phantastic element of the book at its best. The short
introductory synopsis will give an idea of its satirical aspect. The humorous aspect has pretty
nearly been lost in translation. Professor Brander Matthews has aptly said: “The German humour
is like the simple Italian wines--it will not stand export.”

Of all the peoples, the Germans seem to have had the most kindly feelings towards the devil.
This is because they knew him better. To judge from the many bridges and cathedrals, which
the demon, according to legends, has built in Germany, he must have been a frequent visitor
to that country. In Frankfort, where with his own hands our author received the memoirs from
the autobiographer, there is a gilded cock above the bridge in memory of the bargain the bridge-builder
once made with Satan to give him the first living thing that should cross the river. The day
the bridge was finished, a cock fluttered from a woman’s market-basket and ran over the bridge.
A claw-like hand reached down and claimed the prize.

The distinguished personage, whose adventures form the subject of this book, does not figure
in it under his own name, nor does he appear here in the gala attire of tail, horns and cloven
foot with which he graces the revels on the Blocksberg. He borrows for the nonce a tall, gentlemanly
figure, surmounted by delicate features, dresses well, is fastidious about his ring and linen,
travels post and stops at the best hotels. He begins his earthly career by studying at the
renowned university of ----. As he can boast of abundant means, a handsome wardrobe and the
name of Herr von Barbe, it is no wonder that on the first evening he should be politely received,
the next morning have a confidential friend, and the second evening embrace “brothers till
death.” He becomes much puzzled at the extraordinary manners of the students, and at their
language, so different from that of every rational German. He remarks: “Over a glass of beer
they often fell into singularly transcendental investigations, of which I understood little
or nothing. However, I observed the principal words, and when drawn into a conversation, replied
with a grave air--‘Freedom, Fatherland, Nationality.’” He attends the lectures of a celebrated
professor, whose profundity of thought and terseness of style are so astounding, that the German
world set him down as possessed; the critical student, however, differs somewhat from that
conclusion, observing--

“I have borne a great deal in the world. I have even entered into swine,” (“The devil,” said
Luther, “knows Scripture well and he uses it in argument”) “but into such a philosopher? No,
indeed! I had rather be excused.”

The episode here reprinted occurred in a hotel in Frankfort, where our incognito is known as
Herr von Natas (which, it will be noticed, is his more familiar name read backwards). His brilliant
powers of conversation, his adroit flattery, courteous gallantry, and elegant, though wayward
flights of imagination, soon rendered him the delight of the whole table d’hôte. All guests,
including our author, were fascinated by the mysterious stranger. But we will let the author
himself tell his story.

ST. JOHN’S EVE

BY NIKOLÁI VASILÉVICH GÓGOL

This story, taken from Evenings on a Farm near Dikanka, a series of sketches of the life of
the Ukrainian peasants, offers a good illustration of the author’s art, which was a combination
of the romantic and realistic elements. In these pages Gógol wished to record the myths and
legends still current among the plain folk of his beloved Ukrainia. The devil naturally enough
peeps out here and there through the pages of this book. Gógol’s devil is a product of the
Russian soil, “the spirit of mischief and cunning, whom Russian literature is always trying
to outplay and overcome” (Mme. Jarintzow, Russian Poets and Poems).

According to European superstition St. John’s Eve is the only evening in the year when his
Satanic Majesty reveals himself in his proper shape to the eyes of men. If you wish to behold
his Highness face to face, stand on St. John’s Eve at midnight near a mustard-plant. It is
suggested by Sir James Frazer in his Golden Bough that, in the chilly air of the upper world,
this prince from a warmer clime may be attracted by the warmth of the mustard.

It is believed in many parts of Europe that treasures can be found on St. John’s Eve by means
of the fern-seed. Even without the use of this plant treasures are sometimes said to bloom
or burn in the earth, or to reveal their presence by a bluish flame on Midsummer Eve. As guardian
of treasures the devil is the successor of the gnome.

THE DEVIL’S WAGER

BY WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY

The Devil’s Wager is Thackeray’s earliest attempt at story-writing, was contributed to a weekly
literary paper with the imposing title The National Standard, and Journal of Literature, Science,
Music, Theatricals, and the Fine Arts, of which he was proprietor and editor, and was reprinted
in the Paris Sketch Book (1840). The story first ended with the very Thackerayesque touch:
“The moral of this story will be given in several successive numbers.” In the Paris Sketch
Book the last three words are changed into “the second edition.” This comical tale was illustrated
by an excellent wood-cut, representing the devil as sailing through the air, dragging after
him the fat Sir Roger de Rollo by means of his tail, which is wound round Sir Roger’s neck.

In the “Advertisement to the First Edition” of his Paris Sketch Book, Thackeray admits the
French origin of this as well as of his other devil-story, The Painter’s Bargain, to be found
in the same volume. It was Thackeray’s good fortune to live in Paris during the wildest and
most brilliant years of Romanticism; and while his attitude towards this movement and its leaders,
as presented in the Paris Sketch Book, is not wholly sympathetic, he is indebted to it for
his interest in supernatural subjects. The Romanticism of Thackeray has been denied with great
obstinacy and almost passion, for like Heinrich Heine, the chief of German Romantic ironists,
he poked fun at this movement. But “to laugh at what you love,” as Mr. George Saintsbury has
pointed out in his History of the French Novel, “is not only permissible, but a sign of the
love itself.”

Mercurius makes a pun on the familiar quotation “rara avis” from Horace (Sat. 2, 2. 26), where
it means a rare bird. This expression is commonly applied to a singular person. It is also
found in the Satires of Juvenal (VI, 165).

THE PAINTER’S BARGAIN

BY WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY

The belief in compacts with the devil is of great antiquity. Satan, contending with God for
the possession of the human race, was supposed to have developed a passion for catching souls.
At the death of every man a real fight takes place over his soul between an angel, who wishes
to lead it to heaven, and a devil, who attempts to drag it to hell (Jude 9). In order to assure
the soul for himself in advance, Satan attempts to purchase it from the owner while he is still
living--vivente corpore, as he tells the restaurateur in Poe’s story. As prince of this world
he can easily grant even the most extravagant wishes of man in exchange for his soul. Office,
wealth and pleasure are mainly the objects for which a man enters into a pact with the Evil
One. Count de Luizzi in Frédéric Soulié’s Les Mémoires du Diable sells his soul to the devil
for an uncommon consideration. It is not wealth or pleasure that tempts him. What he wants
in exchange for his soul is to know the past lives of his fellowmen and women, “a thing,” as
Mr. Saintsbury well remarks, “which a person of sense and taste would do anything, short of
selling himself to the devil, not to know.” The devil fulfils every wish of his contractor
for a stipulated period of time, at the expiration of which the soul becomes his. Pope Innocent
VIII, in his fatal bull “Summis desiderantes” of the year 1484, officially recognized the possibility
of a compact with the devil. Increase Mather, the New England preacher, also affirms that many
men have made “cursed covenants with the prince of darkness.”

St. Theophilus, of Cilicia, in the sixth century, was the first to make the notable discovery
that a man could enter into a pact of this nature. The price he set for his soul was a bishopric.
This story has been superseded during the Renaissance period by a similar legend concerning
the German Dr. Faustus. Other famous personages reputed to have sold their souls to the devil
for one consideration or another are Don Juan in Spain, Twardowski in Poland, Merlin in England,
and Robert le Diable in France. Socrates, Apuleius, Scaliger and Cagliostro are also said to
have entered into compacts with him.

In devil-contracts the Evil One insists that his human negotiator sign the deed with his own
blood, while the man never requires the devil to sign it even in ink. The human party to the
transaction has always had full confidence in the word of the fiend. There is a universal belief
that the devil invariably fulfils his engagement. In no single instance of folk-lore has Satan
tried to evade the fulfilment of his share in the agreement. But the man, in violation of the
written pact, has often cheated the devil out of his legal due by technical quibbles. “It is
peculiar to the German tradition,” says Gustav Freytag, “that the devil endeavours to fulfil
zealously and honestly his part of the contract; the deceiver is man.” In regard to fidelity
to his word, the father of lies has always set an example to his victims. “You men,” said Satan,
“are cheats; you make all sorts of promises so long as you need me, and leave me in the lurch
as soon as you have got what you wanted.” Mediaeval man had no scruples about his breach of
contract with the devil. He always considered the legal document signed with his own blood
as “a scrap of paper.” “But still the pact is with the enemy; the man is not bound beyond the
letter, and may escape by any trick. It is still the ethics of war. We are very close to the
principle that a man by stratagem or narrow observance of the letter may escape the eternal
retribution which God decrees conditionally and the devil delights in” (H. D. Taylor, Mediaeval
Mind). We now can understand why in Eugene Field’s story “Daniel and the Devil” it seems to
Satan so strange that he should be asked for a written guarantee that he too would fulfil his
part of the contract. Apparently this was the first time that the devil had any transactions
with an American business man, who has not even faith in Old Nick.

Reference is made in this story by the devil himself to the popular saying that the devil is
not so black as he is painted. Even the devout George Herbert wrote--

    “We paint the devil black, yet he
    Hath some good in him all agree.”

This story recalls to us the proverb: “Talk of the devil, and he will either come or send.”

Washington Irving, as we have seen, thinks that he is not always very obliging.

Satan, the father of lies, is said to be the patron of lawyers. The men of the London bar formed
a “Temple” corps, which was dubbed “The Devil’s Own.” The tavern of the lawyers on Fleet Street
in London was called “The Devil.”

BON-BON

BY EDGAR ALLAN POE

This writer, to whom the inner world was more of a reality than the external world, had many
visions, especially of the devil. The two seem to have been on a familiar footing. The devil,
we must admit, filled Poe’s imagination even if we will not go so far as to agree with his
critics that he had Satan substituted for soul. His contemporaries, as is well known, would
say of him: “He hath a demon, yea, seven devils are entered into him.” His detractors actually
regarded this unhappy poet as an incarnation of the ruler of Hades (cf. North American Review,
1856; Edinburgh Review, 1858; Dublin University Magazine, 1875). It was but recently that a
writer in the New York Times declared Poe to have been “grub-staked by demons.”

The story “Bon-Bon” offers a specimen of Poe’s grimly grotesque humour. It first appeared in
the Broadway Journal of August, 1835.

The devil of this most un-American of all American authors is not the child of New World fancy,
but part of European imagination. The scenery of the story is aptly laid in the land of Robert
le Diable.

Poe’s description of the devil is, on the whole, fully in accord with the universally accredited
conception of his ordinary appearance. His brutal hoofs and savage horns and beastly tail are
all there, only discreetly hid under a dress which any gentleman might wear. The devil is very
proud of this epithet given him by William Shakespeare; and from that time on, it has been
his greatest ambition to be a gentleman, in outer appearance at least; and to his credit it
must be said that he has so well succeeded in his efforts to resemble a gentleman that it is
now very hard to tell the two apart. The devil is accredited in popular imagination with long
ears, a long (sometimes upturned) nose, a wide mouth, and teeth of a lion. It is on account
of his fangs that Satan has been called a lion by the biblical writers. But although the prince
of darkness can assume any form in the heavens above, in the earth beneath, and in the waters
under the earth, he has never appeared as a lion. This, I believe, is out of deference to Judah,
whom his father also called a lion. Hairiness is a pretty general characteristic of the devil.
His hairy skin he probably inherited from the ancient fauns and satyrs. Esau is believed to
have been a hairy demon. “Old Harry” is a corruption of “Old Hairy.” As a rule, Old Nick is
not pictured as bald, but has a head covered with locks like serpents. These snaky tresses,
which already “Monk” Lewis wound around the devil’s head, are borrowed, according to Sir Walter
Scott, from the shield of Minerva. His face, however, is usually hairless. A beard has rarely
been accorded to Satan. His red beard on the mediaeval stage probably came from Donar, whom,
as Jacob Grimm says, the modern notions of the devil so often have in the background. Long
bearded devils are nowhere normal except in the representations of the Eastern Church of the
monarch of hell as counterpart of the monarch of heaven. The eyeless devil is original with
our writer. The mediaeval devil had saucer eyes. According to a Russian legend, the all-seeing
spirit of evil is all covered with eyes. The cadaverous aspect of the devil is traditional.
With but one remarkable exception (the Egyptian Typhon), demons are always represented lean.
“A devil,” said Caesarius of Heisterbach of the thirteenth century, “is usually so thin as
to cast no shadow” (Dialogus Miraculorum, iii). This characteristic is a heritage of the ancient
hunger-demon, who, himself a shadow, casts no shadow. In the course of the centuries, however,
the devil has gained flesh. His faded suit of black cloth recalls the mediaeval devil who appeared
“in his fethers all ragged and rent.”

It is not altogether improbable that the ecclesiastical appearance of the devil in this story
was not wholly unintentional, as the author believes. While Satan cannot be said to be “one
of those who take to the ministry mostly,” he often likes to slip into priestly robes. In the
“Temptation of Jesus” by Lucas van Leyden the devil is habited as a monk with a pointed cowl.

In the comparison of a soul with a shadow there is a reminiscence of Adalbert von Chamisso,
whose Peter Schlemihl (1814) sells his shadow to the devil. In his story The Fisherman and
His Soul Oscar Wilde considers the shadow of the body as the body of the soul.

That the devils in hell eat the damned consigned there for punishment is also in accord with
mediaeval tradition. This idea probably is of Oriental origin. The seven Assyrian evil spirits
have a predilection for human flesh and blood. Ghouls and vampires belong to this class of demons.

The devil’s pitchfork is not the forked sceptre of Pluto supplemented by another tine, as is
commonly assumed. It is the ancient sign of fertility, which is still used as a fertility charm
by the Hindus in India and the Zuñi and Aztec Indians of North America and Mexico. A related
symbol is the trident of Poseidon or Neptune. This symbol was recently carried in a children’s
May Day parade through Central Park in New York.

THE PRINTER’S DEVIL

The term “Printer’s Devil” is usually accounted for by the fact that Aldus Manutius, the great
Venetian printer, employed in his printing shop (about 1485) a black slave, who was popularly
thought to be an imp of Satan. This expression may have a deeper significance. It may owe its
origin to the fact that Fust, the inventor of the printing press, was believed to have connections
with the Evil One. It will be remembered that during the Middle Ages and, in Catholic countries,
even for a long time afterwards every discovery of science, every invention of material benefit
to man, was believed to have been secured by a compact with the devil. Our ancestors deemed
the human mind incapable, without the aid of the Evil One, of producing anything beyond their
own comprehension. The red letters which Fust used at the close of his earliest printed volumes
to give his name, with the place and date of publication, were interpreted in Paris as indications
of the diabolical origin of the works so easily produced by him. (M. D. Conway, Demonology
and Devil-Lore.) Sacred days, as is well known, are printed in the Catholic calendar with red
letters, and the devil has also employed them in books of magic. This is but another instance
of the mimicry by “God’s Ape” of the sanctities of the Church.

In the infernal economy, where a strict division of labour prevails, the printer’s devil is
the librarian of hell. The books over which he has charge must be as numerous as the sands
on the sea-shore. For nearly every book written without priestly command was associated in
the good old days with the devil. The assertion that Satan hates nothing so much as writing
or printer’s ink apparently is a very great calumny. He has often even been accused of stealing
manuscripts in order to prevent their publication. The prince of darkness naturally rather
shuns than courts inquiry. On one occasion Joseph Görres, the defender of Catholicism, complained
that the devil, provoked by his interference in Satanic affairs (he is the author of Die christliche
Mystik, which is a rich source for diabolism, diabolical possession and exorcism), had stolen
one of his manuscripts; it was, however, found some time afterwards in his bookcase, and the
devil was completely exonerated.

The concluding paragraph of this story is especially interesting in the light of the present
agitation for unbound books and a eulogy of the old Franklin Square Library.

THE DEVIL’S MOTHER-IN-LAW

BY FERNÁN CABALLERO

Fernán Caballero is the pseudonym of Mrs. Cecilia Böhl von Faber, Marchioness de Arco-Hermoso,
who was a Swiss by birth, daughter of the literary historian Johann Böhl von Faber, the Johannes
of Campe’s Robinson (1779). Her father initiated her early into Spanish literature, which he
interpreted for her in the spirit of the Romantic movement of those early days. The interest
in mediaeval traditions, which she owes to this early training, increased when, later, she
went to Catholic Spain. The charm of her popular Andalusian tales consists in the fact that
she fully shares with the Catholic peasants of that province an implicit faith in the truth
of these mediaeval legends. In her stories we find perhaps the purest expression of mediaevalism
in modern times. Fernán Caballero gradually drifted to the extreme Right in all questions of
religion, art and life. She hated every liberal expression in matters of faith or art with
the fanaticism of a Torquemada. This author not only shared the somewhat general Catholic view
that all Protestants were eternally damned, but she naïvely believed that every son of Israel
had a tail (Julian Schmidt).

The story of woman’s triumph over the Devil is well characteristic of the Land of the Blessed
Lady, as Andalusia is commonly called.

The legend of a devil imprisoned in a phial is also found in the work of the Spaniard Luis
Velez de Guevara called El Diablo cojuelo (1641), from whom Alain Le Sage borrowed both title
and plot for his novel Le Diable boiteux (1707). Asmodeus, liberated from a bottle, into which
he had been confined by a magician, entertains his deliverer with the secret sights of a big
city at midnight, by unroofing the houses of the Spanish capital and showing him the life that
was going on in them. The legend was introduced into Spain from the East by the Moors and finally
acclimated to find a place in local traditions. From that country it spread over the whole
of Europe. The Asiatics believed that by abstinence and special prayers evil spirits could
be reduced into obedience and confined in black bottles. The tradition forms a part of the
Solomonic lore, and is frequently told in esoteric works. In the cabalistic book Vinculum Spirituum,
which is of Eastern origin, it is said that Solomon discovered, by means of a certain learned
book, the valuable secret of inclosing in a bottle of black glass three millions of infernal
spirits, with seventy-two of their kings, of whom Beleh was the chief, Beliar (alias Belial)
the second, and Asmodeus the third. Solomon afterwards cast this bottle into a deep well near
Babylon. Fortunately for the contents, the Babylonians, hoping to find a treasure in the well,
descended into it, broke the bottle, and freed the demons (cf. also The Little Key of Rabbi
Solomon, containing the Names, Seals and Characters of the 72 Spirits with whom he held converse,
also the Art Almadel of Rabbi Solomon, carefully copied by “Raphael,” London, 1879). This legend
is also found in the tale of the Fisherman and the Djinn in the Arabian Nights, which was also
treated by the German poet Klopstock in his poem “Wintermärchen” (1776).

The devil, as it is said in this story, has a mortal hatred of the sound of bells. The origin
of ringing the church bells was, according to Sir James Frazer, to drive away devils and witches.
The devil in Poe’s story “The Devil in the Belfry” (1839) was, indeed, very courageous in invading
the belfry.

The concluding part of the story is identical with the Machiavellian tale of Belphagor.

This tale of the Devil’s mother-in-law first appeared in the volume Cuentos y poesias populares
Andaluces (Seville, 1859), which was translated the same year into French by Germond de Lavigne
under the title Nouvelles andalouses. An English translation under the title Spanish Fairy
Tales appeared in 1881. This particular story was rendered again into English two years later
and included in Tales from Twelve Tongues, translated by a British Museum Librarian [Richard
Garnett?], London, 1883.

THE GENEROUS GAMBLER

BY CHARLES PIERRE BAUDELAIRE

This worshipper and singer of Satan shared his American confrère’s predilection for the devil.
He found his models in the diabolical scenes of Edgar Allan Poe, whom he interpreted to the
Latin world. “Baudelaire,” said Théophile Gautier, his master and friend, “had a singular prepossession
for the devil as a tempter, in whom he saw a dragon who hurried him into sin, infamy, crime,
and perversity.” To Baudelaire, the trier of men’s souls, the Tempter, was as real a person
as he was to Job. He believed that the devil had a great deal to do with the direction of human
destinies. “C’est le Diable qui tient les fils qui nous remuent!” Men are mere puppets in the
hands of the devil. “Baudelaire’s motto,” as Mr. James Huneker has well remarked, “might be
the reverse of Browning’s lines: The Devil is in his heaven. All’s wrong with the world.”

Baudelaire’s devil is a dandy and a boulevardier with wings. Each author, it has been said,
creates the devil in his own image.

The greatest boon which Satan could offer Baudelaire was to free him from that great modern
monster, Ennui, which selects as its prey the most highly gifted natures. The boredom of life--this
was, indeed, as this unhappy poet admits, the source of all his maladies and of all his miseries.
He called it the “foulest of vices” and hoped to escape from it “by dreaming of the superlative
emotional adventure, by indulging in infinite, indeterminate desire” (Irving Babbit). His preface
to the Flowers of Evil, in which he addresses the reader, ends with the following statement
in regard to the nature of this modern beast of prey: “Among the jackals, the panthers, the
hounds, the apes, the scorpions, the vultures, the serpents--the yelling, howling, growling,
grovelling monsters which form the foul menagerie of our vices--there is one which is the most
foul, the most wicked, the most unclean of all. This vice, although it uses neither extravagant
gestures nor makes a great outcry, would willingly make a ruin of the earth, and swallow up
all the world in a yawn. This is Ennui! who, with his eye moistened by an involuntary tear,
dreams of scaffolds while smoking his hookah. Thou knowest him, this delicate monster, hypocritical
reader, my like, my brother!”

In Gorky’s story “The Devil” the devil himself suffers from ennui.

But Baudelaire believed he had good reason to doubt Satan’s word, and, therefore, prayed to
the Lord to make the devil keep his promise to him. He had little faith in the father of lies.
In his book called Artificial Paradises (1860) Baudelaire expressed the thought that the devil
would say to the eaters of hashish, the smokers of opium, as he did in the olden days to our
first parents, “If you taste of the fruit, you will be as the gods,” and that the devil no
more kept his word with them than he did with Adam and Eve, for the next day, the god, tempted,
weakened, enervated, descended even lower than the beast.

The representation of the devil in the shape of a he-goat goes back to far antiquity. Goat-formed
deities and spirits of the woods existed in the religions of India, Assyria, Greece and Egypt.
The Assyrian god was often associated with the goat, which was supposed to possess the qualities
for which he was worshipped. The he-goat was also the sacred beast of Donar or Thor, who was
brought to Scandinavia by the Phoenicians. (On the relation of satyrs to goats see also James
G. Frazer, The Golden Bough, vol. VIII, pp. 1 sqq.) At the revels on the Blocksberg Satan always
appeared as a black buck.

Le bon diable, which is a favourite phrase in France, points to his simplicity of mind rather
than generosity of spirit. It generally expresses the half-contemptuous pity with which the
giants, these huge beings with weak minds, were regarded.

The idea that Satan would gamble for a human soul is of mediaeval origin and may have been
taken by Baudelaire from Gérard de Nerval, who in his mystery play Le Prince des Sots (1830)
has the devil play at dice with an angel, with human souls as stakes. As a dice-player Satan
resembles Wuotan. Mr. H. G. Wells in The Undying Fire (1919) has Diabolus play chess with the
Deity in Heaven.

The devil in this story falls back into speaking Hebrew when the days of his ancient celestial
glory are brought back to his mind. In Louis Ménard’s Le Diable au café the devil calls Hebrew
a dead language, and as a modern prefers to be called by the French equivalent of his original
Hebrew name. In the Middle Ages the devil’s favourite language was Latin. Marlowe’s Mephistopheles
also speaks this language. Satan is known to be a linguist. “It is the Devil by his several
languages,” said Ben Jonson.

According to popular belief the devil is a learned scholar and a profound thinker. He has all
science, philosophy, and theology at his tongue’s end.

The Shavian devil in contradistinction to the Baudelairian fiend does bitterly complain that
he is so little appreciated on earth. Walter Scott’s devil (in “Wandering Willie’s Tale,” 1824)
also complains that he has been “sair miscaa’d in the world.”

The preacher to whom our author refers is the Jesuit Ravignan, who declared that the disbelief
in the devil was one of the most cunning devices of the great enemy himself. (La plus grande
force du diable, c’est d’être parvenu à se faire nier.) Baudelaire’s disciple J. K. Huysmans
similarly expresses in his novel Là-Bas (1891) the view that “the greatest power of Satan lies
in the fact that he gets men to deny him.” (Cf. the present writer’s essay “The Satanism of
Huysmans” in The Open Court for April, 1920.) The devil mocks at this theological dictum in
Pierre Veber’s story “L’Homme qui vendit son âme au Diable” (1918). In Perkins’s story “The
Devil-Puzzlers” the devil expresses his satisfaction over his success in this regard.

The story “The Generous Gambler” first appeared in the Figaro of February, 1864, was reprinted
under the title of “Le Diable” in the Revue du Dix-Neuvième Siècle of June, 1866, and was finally
included in Poèmes en Prose. This story has also been translated into English by Joseph T. Shipley.

THE THREE LOW MASSES

A CHRISTMAS STORY

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET

Daudet and Maupassant furnish the best proof of the assertion made in the Introduction to this
book that even the Naturalists who, as a rule, disdained the phantastic plots of the Romanticists,
whose imagination was rigorously earth-bound, felt themselves nevertheless attracted by devil-lore.
Although most of Daudet’s subjects are chosen from contemporary French life, this short-story
treats a devil-legend of the seventeenth century. This story as “The Pope’s Mule” and “The
Elixir of the Reverend Père Gaucher” obviously has no other object but to poke fun at the Catholic
Church. It belongs to the literary type known as the Satirical Supernatural.

This story is characteristic of Daudet’s art, containing as it does all of his delicacy and
daintiness of pathos, of raillery, of humour. It originally appeared in that delightful group
of stories Lettres de Mon Moulin (1869).

The horns and tail of his Satanic majesty peep out as vividly in this book as the disguised
devils in Ingoldsby’s Legend of the North Countrie.

Although hating all men, the devil has a special hatred for the priests, and he delights in
bringing them to fall. Satan loathes the priests, because, as Anatole France says, they teach
that “God takes delight in seeing His creatures languish in penitence and abstain from His
most precious gifts” (Les Dieux ont soif, p. 278).

It is evident from this story that the popular belief that the devil avoids holy edifices is
not based on facts. Here the devil not only enters the church, but even performs the duties
of a sacristan at the foot of the altar. According to mediaeval tradition the devil has his
agents even in the churches. In the administration of hell where the tasks are carefully parcelled
out among the thousands of imps, the church has been assigned to the fiend with the poetic
name of Tutevillus. It is his duty to attend all services in order to listen to the gossips
and to write down every word they say. After death these women are entertained in hell with
their own speeches, which this diabolical church clerk has carefully noted down. Tradition
has it that one fine Sunday this demon was sitting in a church on a beam, on which he held
himself fast by his feet and his tail, right over two village gossips, who chattered so much
during the Blessed Mass that he soon filled every corner of the parchment on both sides. Poor
Tutevillus worked so hard that the sweat ran in great drops down his brow, and he was ready
to sink with exhaustion. But the gossips ceased not to sin with their tongues, and he had no
fair parchment left whereon to record their foul words. So having considered for a little while,
he grasped one end of the roll with his teeth and seized the other end with his claws and pulled
so hard as to stretch the parchment. He tugged and tugged with all his strength, jerking back
his head mightily at each tug, and at last giving such a fierce jerk that he suddenly lost
his balance and fell head over heels from the beam to the floor of the church. (From “The Vision
of Saint Simon of Blewberry” in F. O. Mann’s collection of mediaeval tales.)

DEVIL-PUZZLERS

BY FREDERICK BEECHER PERKINS

Through Asmodeus the devil became associated with humour and gallantry. Asmodeus sharpened
his wits in his conversations with the wisest of kings. It will be recalled that this demon
was the familiar spirit of Solomon, whose throne, according to Jewish legend, he occupied for
three years. Perhaps it was not Solomon after all but this diabolical usurper who gathered
around himself a thousand wives. It is said that Asmodeus is as dangerous to women as Lilith
is to men. He loves to decoy young girls in the shape of a handsome young man. His love for
the beautiful Sarah is too well known to need any comment. He is a fastidious devil, and will
not have the object of his passion subject to the embrace of any other mortal or immortal.

Reference is made by the author to Albert Réville’s epitome of Georg Roskoff’s Geschichte des
Teufels (Leipzig, 1869), a standard work on the history of the devil. The review by this French
Protestant first appeared in the Revue des Deux Mondes for 1870, and was translated into English
the following year. A second edition appeared six years later. Roskoff’s book, on the other
hand, has never appeared in translation.

It is not easy to grasp the scholastic subtleties of mediaeval schoolmen. Dr. Ethel Brewster
suggests the following interpretations: An chimoera bombinans in vacuo devorat secundas intentiones.
Whether a demon buzzing in the air devours our good intentions. This will correspond to our
saying that hell is paved with good intentions. An averia carrucae capta in vetito nomio sint
irreplegibilia. Whether the carriers of a [bishop’s] carriage caught in a forbidden district
should be punished. We can well understand how even the devil might be puzzled by such questions.

Professor Brander Matthews aptly calls this story “diabolically philosophical.”

THE DEVIL’S ROUND

A TALE OF FLEMISH GOLF

BY CHARLES DEULIN

The modern devil is an accomplished gentleman. He is the most all-round being in creation.
Mynheer van Belzébuth, as he is called in this story, is indeed the greatest gambler that there
is upon or under the earth. On the golf-field as at the roulette-table he is hard to beat.
It was the devil who invented cards, and they are, therefore, called the Devil’s Bible, and
it was also he who taught the Roman soldiers how to cast lots for the raiment of Christ (John
xix, 24). Dice are also called the devil’s bones.

The devil carries the souls in a sack on his back also in the legend of St. Medard. It is told
that this saint, while promenading one day on the shore of the Red Sea in Egypt, saw Satan
carrying a bag full of damned souls on his back. The heart of this saint was filled with compassion
for the poor souls and he quickly slit the devil’s bag open, whereupon the souls scrambled
for liberty:

    “Away went the Quaker--away went the Baker,
    Away went the Friar--that fine fat Ghost,
      Whose marrow Old Nick Had intended to pick
    Dressed like a Woodcock, and served on toast!

    “Away went the nice little Cardinal’s Niece
    And the pretty Grisettes, and the Dons from Spain,
      And the Corsair’s crew, And the coin-cliping Jew,
    And they scamper’d, like lamplighters, over the plain!”

The Witches’ Sabbath is the annual reunion of Satan and his worshippers on earth. The witches,
mounted on goats and broomsticks, flock to desolate heaths and hills to hold high revel with
their devil.

Beelzebub swears in this story by the horns of his grandfather. While the devil is known to
have a grandmother, there has never been found a trace of his grandfather. Satan has probably
been adopted by the grandmother of Grendel, the Anglo-Saxon evil demon. The horns have been
inherited by Satan from Dionysos. This Greek god had bull-feet and bull’s horns.

The reader, who is interested in the origin of the European Carnival (Shrove Tuesday) customs,
is referred to the editor’s monograph The Origin of the German Carnival Comedy (New York: G.
E. Stechert & Co., 1920).

THE LEGEND OF MONT ST.-MICHEL

BY GUY DE MAUPASSANT

No greater proof of the permanence and persistence of the devil as a character in literature
can be adduced than the fact that this writer, in whom we find the purest expression of Naturalism,
for whom the visible world was absolutely all that there is, was attracted by a devil-legend.
But on this point he had a good example in his god-father and master Gustave Flaubert, who,
though a realist of realists, showed deep interest in the Tempter of St. Anthony.

This legend of the fraudulent bargain between a sprite and a farmer as to alternate upper-
and under-ground crops, with which “the great vision of the guarded mount” is here connected,
is of Northern origin, but has travelled South as far as Arabia. It will be found in Grimm’s
Fairy Tales (No. 189); Thiele’s Danish Legends (No. 122), and T. Sternberg’s The Dialect and
Folk-Lore of Northampshire (p. 140). Rabelais used it as a French legend, and in its Oriental
form it served as a subject for a poem by the German Friedrich Rückert (“Der betrogene Teufel”).
In all these versions the agreement is entered into between the devil (in the Northampshire
form it is a bogie or some other field spirit) and a peasant. It was reserved for Maupassant
to make St. Michael get the better of Satan on earth as in heaven.

According to this legend the devil broke his leg when, in his flight from St. Michael, he jumped
off the roof of the castle into which he had been lured by the saint. The traditional explanation
for the devil’s broken leg is his fall from heaven. “I beheld Satan as lightning fall from
heaven” (Luke x, 18). All rebellious deities, who were universally supposed to have fallen
from heaven, have crooked or crippled legs. Hephaestos, Vulcan, Loki and Wieland, each has
a broken leg. This idea has probably been derived from the crooked lightning flashes. The devil’s
mother in the mediaeval German mystery-plays walks on crutches. Asmodeus, the Persian demon
Aeshma daeva, also had a lame foot. In Le Sage’s book Le Diable boiteux Asmodeus appears as
a limping gentleman, who uses two sticks as crutches. According to rabbinical tradition this
demon broke his leg when he hurried to meet King Solomon. In addition to his broken leg the
devil inherited the goat-foot from Pan, the bull-foot from Dionysius and the horse-foot from
Loki. The Ethiopic devil’s right foot is a claw, and his left a hoof.

The devil is erroneously represented in this story as very lazy. Industry, it has been said,
is the great Satanic virtue. “If we were all as diligent and as conscientious as the devil,”
observed an old Scotch woman to her minister, “it wad be muckle better for us.”

The highest peak of a mountain is always consecrated to St. Michael. The Mont St.-Michel on
the Norman Coast played a conspicuous part in the wars of the sons of William the Conqueror.
Maupassant uses it as the background for several of the chapters of his novel Notre Coeur (1890).
The mountain also figures in his story “Le Horla” (1886).

THE DEMON POPE

BY RICHARD GARNETT

The following two stories by Richard Garnett have been taken from his book The Twilight of
the Gods, which was first published anonymously in 1888, and in a “new and augmented edition,”
with the author’s name, in 1902. The title recalls Richard Wagner’s opera Götterdämmerung,
but may have been directly suggested by Elémir Bourges, whose novel Le Crépuscule des dieux
appeared four years earlier than Garnett’s collection of stories. In his book Richard Garnett
plays havoc with all religions. The demons, naturally enough, fare worse at his hands than
the gods. The Twilight of the Gods is a panorama of human folly and farce. Franz Cumont has
said that human folly is a more interesting study than ancient wisdom. The author finds a great
joy in pointing out all the mysterious cobwebs which have collected on the ceiling of man’s
brain in the course of the ages. Mr. Arthur Symons rightly calls this book “a Punch and Judy
show of the comedy of civilization.”

The story of “The Demon Pope” is based upon a legend of a compact between a Pope and the devil.
It is believed that Gerbert, who later became Pope Silvester II, sold his soul to Satan in
order to acquire a knowledge of physics, arithmetic and music. The fullest account of this
legend will be found in J. J. Dollinger’s Fables Respecting the Popes of the Middle Ages (Engl.
Translation, 1871). The History of the Devil and the Idea of Evil by Paul Carus (1900) contains
the following passages on this legend:

     “An English Benedictine monk, William of Malmesbury, says of
     Pope Sylvester II., who was born in France, his secular name
     being Gerbert, that he entered the cloister when still a
     boy. Full of ambition, he flew to Spain where he studied
     astrology and magic among the Saracens. There he stole a
     magic-book from a Saracen philosopher, and returned flying
     through the air to France. Now he opened a school and
     acquired great fame, so that the king himself became one of
     his disciples. Then he became Bishop of Rheims, where he had
     a magnificent clock and an organ constructed. Having raised
     the treasure of Emperor Octavian which lay hidden in a
     subterrenean vault at Rome, he became Pope. As Pope he
     manufactured a magic head which replied to all his
     questions. This head told him that he would not die until he
     had read Mass in Jerusalem. So the Pope decided never to
     visit the Holy Land. But once he fell sick, and, asking his
     magic head, was informed that the church’s name in which he
     had read Mass the other day was ‘The Holy Cross of
     Jerusalem.’ The Pope knew at once that he had to die. He
     gathered all the cardinals around his bed, confessed his
     crime, and, as a penance, ordered his body to be cut up
     alive, and the pieces to be thrown out of the church as
     unclean.

     “Sigabert tells the story of the Pope’s death in a different
     way. There is no penance on the part of the Pope, and the
     Devil takes his soul to hell. Others tell us that the Devil
     constantly accompanied the Pope in the shape of a black dog,
     and this dog gave him the equivocal prophecy.

     “The historical truth of the story is that Gerbert was
     unusually gifted and well educated. He was familiar with the
     wisdom of the Saracens, for Borell, Duke of Hither Spain,
     carried him as a youth to his country where he studied
     mathematics and astronomy. He came early in contact with the
     most influential men of his time, and became Pope in 999. He
     was liberal enough to denounce some of his unworthy
     predecessors as ‘monsters of more than human iniquity,’ and
     as ‘Antichrist, sitting in the temple of God and playing the
     part of the Devil’ (the text inadvertently reads: and
     playing the part of God); but at the same time he pursued an
     independent and vigorous papal policy, foreshadowing in his
     aims both the pretensions of Gregory the Great and the
     Crusades.”

MADAM LUCIFER

BY RICHARD GARNETT

Perhaps the most fascinating--and the most dangerous--character in the infernal world is this
Mater tenebrarum--Our Lady of Darkness. “A lady devil,” says Daniel Defoe, “is about as dangerous
a creature as one could meet.” When Lucifer fails to bring a man to his fall, he hands the
case over to his better half, and it is said that no man has ever escaped the siren seductions
of this Diabo-Lady. A poem, The Diabo-Lady, or a Match in Hell, appeared in London in 1777.

According to Teutonic mythology, this diabolical Madonna is the mother or the grandmother of
Satan. The mother or grandmother of Grendel, the Anglo-Saxon evil demon, became Satan’s mother
or grandmother by adoption. A mother was a necessary part of the devil’s equipment. Having
set his mind to equal Christ in every detail of his life, Satan had to get a mother somehow.
In his story “The Vision Malefic” (1920) Mr. Huneker tells of the appearance of this counterfeit
Madonna on a Christmas Eve to the organist of a Roman Catholic church in New York. Partly out
of devotion to her and partly also because he could not obtain the sacramental blessing of
the Church, Satan was forced to remain single. In the story “Devil-Puzzlers” by Fred B. Perkins
the demon Apollyon appears as an old bachelor. “I have a mother, but no wife,” he tells the
charming Mrs. Hicok. The synagogue was more lenient towards the devil. The rabbis did not hesitate
to perform the marriage ceremony for the diabolical pair. According to Jewish tradition the
chief of the fallen angels married Lilith, Adam’s first wife. She is said to have been in her
younger days a woman of great beauty, but with a heart of ice. Now, of course, she is a regular
hell-hag. If we can trust Rossetti, who painted her Majesty’s portrait, she still is a type
of beauty whose fascination is fatal. This woman was created by the Lord to be the help-meet
of Adam, but mere man had no attraction for this superwoman. She is said to have started the
fight for woman’s emancipation from man, and contested Adam’s right to be the head of the family.
Their married life was very brief. Their incompatibility of character was too great. One fine
morning Adam found that his erstwhile angelical wife had deserted him and run away with Lucifer,
whom she had formerly known in heaven.

The King-Devil apparently always succeeded somehow or other in breaking the chains with which,
according to legend, he had repeatedly been bound and sealed in the lowest depths of hell.
From antediluvian times the demons appear to have been attracted by the daughters of men and
to have come frequently up to earth to pay court to them. The only devil who must always remain
in hell is the stoker, Brendli by name. The fires of hell must not be allowed to go out.

The anatomically melancholic Burton also tells of a devil who was in love with a mortal maiden.
Jacques Cazotte tells the story of Beelzebub as a woman in love with an earth-born man.

LUCIFER

BY ANATOLE FRANCE

This writer has a great sympathy for devil-lore, and many of his characters show the cloven
hoof. An analyst of illusions, he has a profound interest in the greatest of illusions. An
assailant of every form of superstition, he has a tender affection for the greatest of superstitions.
An exponent of the radical and ironical spirit in French literature, he feels irresistibly
drawn to the eternal Denier and Mocker.

The story of the Florentine painter Spinello Spinelli, to whom Lucifer appeared in a dream
to ask him in what place he had beheld him under so brutish a form as he had painted him, is
told in Giorgio Vasari’s Vite de’ più eccellenti Pittori, Scultori, ed Architteti (1550), which
is the basis of the history of Italian art. It was treated by Barrili in his novel The Devil’s
Portrait (1882; Engl. tr. 1885), from whom Anatole France may have got the idea for his story.
But there is also a mediaeval French legend about a monk (Du moine qui contrefyt l’ymage du
Diable, qui s’en corouça), who was forced by the indignant devil to paint him in a less ugly
manner.

The devil is very sensitive in regard to his appearance. On a number of occasions he expressed
his bitter resentment at the efforts of a certain class of artists to represent him in a hideous
form (cf. M. D. Conway, Demonology and Devil-Lore). Daniel Defoe has well remarked that the
devil does not think that the people would be terrified half so much if they were to converse
face to face with him. “Really,” this biographer of Satan goes on to say, “it were enough to
fright the devil himself to meet himself in the dark, dressed up in the several figures which
imagination has formed for him in the minds of men.” It makes us, indeed, wonder why the devil
was always represented in a hideous and horrid form. Rationally conceived, the devil should
by right be the most fascinating object in creation. One of his essential functions, temptation,
is destroyed by his hideousness. To do the work of temptation a demon might be expected to
approach his intended victim in the most fascinating form he could command. This fact is an
additional proof that the devil was for the early Christians but the discarded pagan god, whom
they wished to represent as ugly and as repulsive as they could.

The earliest known representation of the devil in human form is found on an ivory diptych of
the time of Charles the Bald (9th century). Many artists have since then painted his Majesty’s
portrait. Schongauer, Dürer, Michelangelo, Titian, Raphael, Rubens, Poussin, Van Dyck, Breughel
and other masters on canvas vied with each other to present us with a real likeness of Satan.
None has, however, equalled the power of Gustave Doré in the portrayal of the Diabolical. This
Frenchman was at his best as an artist of the infernal (Dante’s “Great Dis” and Milton’s “Satan
at the gates of Hell”).

Modern artists frequently represent the devil as a woman. Félicien Rops, Max Klinger, and Franz
Stuck may be cited as illustrations. Apparently the devil has in modern times changed sex as
well as custom and costume. Victor Hugo has said:

    “Dieu s’est fait homme; soit.
        Le diable s’est fait femme.”

“Lucifer,” as well as the other stories which form the volume The Well of St. Claire, is told
by the abbé Jérôme Coignard on the edge of Santa Clara’s well at Siena. The book was first
published serially in the Echo de Paris (1895). It has just been rendered into Spanish (El
Pozo de Santa Clara).

THE DEVIL

BY MAXIM GORKY

This story shows reminiscences of Le Sage’s Le Diable boiteux. It will be recalled that Asmodeus
also lifts the roofs of the houses of Madrid and exhibits their interior to his benefactor.

The fate of a Russian author was, indeed, a very sad affair. “In all lands have the writers
drunk of life’s cup of bitterness, have they been bruised by life’s sharp corners and torn
by life’s pointed thorns. Chill penury, public neglect, and ill health have been the lot of
many an author in countries other than Russia. But in the land of the Czars men of letters
had to face problems and perils which were peculiarly their own, and which have not been duplicated
in any other country on the globe.... Every man of letters was under suspicion. The government
of Russia treated every author as its natural enemy, and made him feel frequently the weight
of its heavy hand. The wreath of laurels on the brow of almost every poet was turned by the
tyrants of his country into a crown of thorns.” (From the present writer’s essay “The Gloom
and Glory of Russian Literature” in The Open Court for July, 1918.)

THE DEVIL AND THE OLD MAN

BY JOHN MASEFIELD

POSTCRIPT

For the benefit of the gentle reader, who is about to shed a tear or two over the demise of
the devil, the following episode from Anatole France’s My Friend’s Book is retold here:

Pierre Nozière (Anatole France) takes his baby-girl to a Punch and Judy show, the culmination
point of which always consists of the duel to the death between Punch and the Devil. The terrible
battle ends, of course, with the death of the Devil. The spectators applaud the heroic act
of Punch, but Pierre Nozière is not happy over the result of the fight. He thinks that it is
rather a pity that the Devil has been slain. Paying no heed to Suzanne sitting by his side,
he goes on musing:

     “The Devil being dead, good-bye to sin! Perhaps Beauty, the
     Devil’s ally, would have to go, too. Perhaps we should never
     more behold the flowers that enchant us, and the eyes for
     love of which we would lay down our lives. What, if that is
     so, what in the world would become of us? Should we still be
     able to practise virtue? I doubt it. Punch did not
     sufficiently bear in mind that Evil is the necessary
     counterpart of Good, as darkness is of light, that virtue
     wholly consists of effort, and that if there is no more any
     Devil to fight against, the Saints will remain as much out
     of work as the Sinners. Life will be mortally dull. I tell
     you that when he killed the Devil, Punch committed an act of
     grave imprudence.

     “Well, Pulchinello came on and made his bow, the curtain
     fell, and all the little boys and girls went home; but still
     I sat on deep in meditation. Mam’zelle Suzanne, perceiving
     my thoughtful mien, concluded that I was in trouble.... Very
     gently and tenderly she takes hold of my hand and asks me
     why I am unhappy. I confess that I am sorry that Punch has
     slain the Devil. Then she puts her little arms round my
     neck, and putting her lips to my ears, she whispers:

     “‘I tell you somefin: Punch, he killed the nigger, but he
     has not killed him for good.’”

INDEX

[List of authors and titles contained in the Notes. Names are alphabeted after omission of
de or von, and titles are entered without their initial article. Each title is followed by
the author’s name in parentheses.]

Ambrosio, or the Monk (Lewis), 296

Anathema (Andréev), 286

Anatomy of Melancholy (Burton), 318

Andréev, Leonid, 286

Artificial Paradises (Baudelaire), 304

Auswahl aus des Teufels Papieren (Richter), 286

Autobiography of Satan (Beard), 286

Barham, Richard Harris (307)

Barrili, Anton Giulio, 319

Baudelaire, Charles Pierre, 279, 296, 303-06

Beard, J. R., 286

Belphagor, or the Marriage of the Devil (Machiavelli), 281-83, 301

Belphagor (an English play), 281

Betrogener Teufel (Rückert), 313

Bon-Bon (Poe), 295-97

Bourges, Elémir, 315

Brevio, Giovanni, 282

Browning, Robert, 280, 303

Burton, Richard, 318

Caballero, Fernán, 300-02

Caesarius of Heisterbach, 296-97

Campe, Joachim Heinrich, 300

Carus, Paul, 315

Cazotte, Jacques, 318

Chamisso, Adalbert, 297

Chappuys, Gabriel, 281

Chateaubriand, François Auguste René, 283

Chatterton, Thomas, 283

Christliche Mystik (Görres), 299

Conway, Moncure Daniel, 298, 318

Crépuscule des Dieux (Bourges), 315

Cumont, Franz, 315

Daborne, Robert, 281

Daniel and the Devil (Field), 294

Danish Legends (Thiele), 313

Dante Alighieri, 320

Daudet, Alphonse, 307-08

Defoe, Daniel, 317, 319

Demon Pope (Garnett), 315-16

Demonology and Devil-Lore (Conway), 298, 319

Demonology and Witchcraft (W. Scott), 285, 296

Deulin, Charles, 311-12

Devil (Gorky), 304, 321

Devil; his Origin, Greatness and Decadence (Réville), 309

Devil and his Dame (Houghton), 281

Devil and the Old Man (Masefield), 322-23

Devil and Tom Walker (Irving), 284-85

Devil in a Nunnery (Mann), 279-80

Devil in Germany (Freytag), 293

Devil in the Belfry (Poe), 301

Devil is an Ass (Jonson), 281

Devil-Puzzlers (Perkins), 306, 309-10, 317

Devil’s Fiddle, 279

Devil’s Mother-in-Law (Caballero), 300-02

Devil’s Portrait (Barrili), 319

Devil’s Round (Deulin), 311-12

Devil’s Violin (Webster), 279

Devil’s Wager (Thackeray), 290-91

Diable (Baudelaire), 306

Diable au café (Ménard), 305

Diable boiteux (Le Sage), 300, 314, 321

Diablo cojuelo (Guevara), 300

Diabo-Lady, or a Match in Hell, 317

Dialect and Folk-Lore of Northampshire (Sternberg), 313

Dialogus Miraculorum (Caesarius), 297

Dieux ont soif (France), 307

Dollinger, J. J., 315

Du moine qui countrefyt l’ymage du Diable, 319

Dunlop, J. C., 282

Elixir of the Reverend Père Gaucher (Daudet), 307

En Route (Huysmans), 280

Evangelium Nicodemi, 283

Evenings on a Farm near Dikanka (Gógol), 289

Fables Respecting the Popes of the Middle Ages (Dollinger), 315

Fairy Tales (Grimm), 313

Faust (Goethe), 280

Faust (Lenau), 279

Faustus (Marlowe), 305

Field, Eugene, 294

Fisherman and his Soul (Wilde), 297

Flaubert, Gustave, 313

Flowers of Evil (Baudelaire), 303

France, Anatole, 307, 319-20, 322-23

Frazer, James George, 289, 301, 304

Freytag, Gustav, 293

From the Memoirs of Satan (Hauff), 286-88

Fulwell, Ulpian, 281

Goethe, Wolfgang, 280, 284

Gógol, Nikolái Vasilévich, 289

Golden Bough (Frazer), 289, 304

Gorky, Maxím, 304, 321

Görres, Joseph, 299

Götterdämmerung (Wagner), 315

Grim, the Collier of Croydon (Fulwell), 281

Grimm, Jacob, 296, 313

Guevara, Luis Velez, 300

Hauff, Wilhelm, 286-88

Heine, Heinrich, 290

Henslowe, Philip, 281

Herbert, George, 294

Hill, Rowland, 279

History of Fiction (Dunlop), 282

History of the Devil and the Idea of Evil (Carus), 315-16

History of the French Novel (Saintsbury), 290-91, 292

Hoffmann, E. Th.

