Leaders in Science

THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY

A SKETCH OF HIS LIFE AND WORK

BY

P. CHALMERS MITCHELL, M.A. (Oxon.)

G.P. PUTNAM'S SONS

NEW YORK

27 WEST TWENTY THIRD STREET

LONDON

24 BEDFORD STREET STRAND

The Knickerbocker Press

1900

COPYRIGHT 1900

BY

G.P. PUTNAM'S SONS

The Knickerbocker Press, New York

PREFACE

This volume is in no sense an intimate or authorised biography of Huxley. It is simply an outline
of the external features of his life and an account of his contributions to biology, to educational
and social problems, and to philosophy and metaphysics. In preparing it, I have been indebted
to his own Autobiography, to the obituary notice written by Sir Michael Foster for the Royal
Society of London, to a sketch of him by Professor Howes, his successor at the Royal College
of Science, and to his published works. The latter consist of many well-known separate volumes
which are familiar to all zoölogists, and of a vast number of memoirs and essays scattered
in various scientific and general publications. The general Essays were collected into nine
volumes, revised by himself in the later years of his life, and published by Messrs. Macmillan.
The Scientific Memoirs, thanks to the generous enterprise of the same publishing firm, with
which he was so long associated, and to the pious labours of Sir Michael Foster and Professor
Ray Lankester, are in process of reissue in the form of four volumes, two of which have now
appeared. These will contain all his important contributions to science, with the exception
of a large separate treatise on the Oceanic Hydrozoa published by the Ray Society in 1859.
There is also announced a formal Biography, prepared by his son, so that future admirers or
students of Huxley's work will be in an exceptionally favourable position.

LONDON, 1900.

P. CHALMERS MITCHELL.

Leaders in Science

CONTENTS

                                                       PAGE
PREFACE                                                 iii

CHAPTER I

FROM SCHOOL TO LIFE-WORK                                  1

    Birth--Parentage--School-days--Choice of Medical
    Profession--Charing Cross Hospital--End of Medical
    Studies--Admission to Naval Medical Service.

CHAPTER II

THE VOYAGE OF THE RATTLESNAKE                            13

    The Objects of the Voyage--The Route--The Naturalist and the
    Surgeon--Collecting and Dredging--Stay in Sydney--Adventures with
    the Natives--Comparison with Darwin's Voyage on the Beagle.

CHAPTER III

FLOATING CREATURES OF THE SEA                            30

    The Nature of Floating Life--Memoir on Medusæ Accepted by the
    Royal Society--Old and New Ideas of the Animal Kingdom--What
    Huxley Discovered in Medusæ--His Comparison of them with
    Vertebrate Embryos

CHAPTER IV

EARLY DAYS IN LONDON                                       46

    Scientific Work as Unattached Ship-Surgeon--Introduction to
    London Scientific Society--Translating, Receiving, and
    Lecturing--Ascidians--Molluscs and the Archetype--Criticism of
    Pre-Darwinian Evolution--Appointment to Geological Survey.

CHAPTER V

CREATURES OF THE PAST                                      67

    Beginning Palæontological Work--Fossil Amphibia and
    Reptilia--Ancestry of Birds--Ancestry of the Horse--Imperfect
    European Series Completed by Marsh's American Fossils--Meaning of
    Geological Contemporaneity--Uniformitarianism and Catastrophism
    Compared with Evolution in Geology--Age of the Earth--Intermediate
    and Linear Types.

CHAPTER VI

HUXLEY AND DARWIN                                          89

    Early Ideas on Evolution--Erasmus Darwin--Lamarck--Herbert
    Spencer--Difference between Evolution and Natural
    Selection--Huxley's Preparation for Evolution--The Novelty of
    Natural Selection--The Advantage of Natural Selection as a Working
    Hypothesis--Huxley's Unchanged Position with regard to Evolution
    and Natural Selection from 1860 to 1894.

CHAPTER VII

THE BATTLE FOR EVOLUTION                                  110

    Huxley's Prevision of the Battle--The Causes of the Battle--The
    Times Review--Sir Richard Owen attacks  Darwinism in the
    Edinburgh Review--Bishop Wilberforce attacks in the Quarterly
    Review--Huxley's Scathing Replies--The British Association
    Debates at Oxford--Huxley and Wilberforce--Résumé of Huxley's
    Exact Position with Regard to Evolution and to Natural Selection.

CHAPTER VIII

VERTEBRATE ANATOMY                                        128

    The Theory of the Vertebrate Skull--Goethe, Oken, Cuvier, and
    Owen--Huxley Defends Goethe--His own Contributions to the
    Theory--The Classification of Birds--Huxley Treats them as
    "Extinct Animals"--Geographical Distribution--Sclater's
    Regions--Huxley's Suggestions.

CHAPTER IX

MAN AND THE APES                                          144

    Objections to Zoölogical Discussion of Man's Place--Owen's
    Prudence--Huxley's Determination to Speak out--Account of his
    Treatment of Man's Place in Nature--Additions Made by More
    Recent Work.

CHAPTER X

SCIENCE AS A BRANCH OF EDUCATION                           167

    Science-Teaching Fifty Years Ago--Huxley's Insistence on
    Reform--Science Primers--Physiography--Elementary Physiology--The
    Crayfish--Manuals of Anatomy--Modern Microscopical
    Methods--Practical Work in Biological Teaching--Invention of the
    Type System--Science in Medical Education--Science and Culture.

CHAPTER XI

GENERAL PROBLEMS OF EDUCATION                             188

    Establishment of Compulsory Education in England--The Religious
    Controversy--Huxley Advocates the Bible without Theology--His
    Compromise on the "Cowper-Temple" Clause--Influence of the New
    Criticism--Science and Art Instruction--Training of
    Teachers--University Education--The Baltimore Address--Technical
    Education--So-called "Applied Science"--National Systems of
    Education as "Capacity-Catchers."

CHAPTER XII

CITIZEN, ORATOR, AND ESSAYIST                             204

    Huxley's Activity in Public Affairs--Official in Scientific
    Societies--Royal Commissions--Vivisection--Characteristics of his
    Public Speaking--His Method of Exposition--His
    Essays--Vocabulary--Phrase-Making--His Style Essentially One of
    Ideas.

CHAPTER XIII

THE OPPONENT OF MATERIALISM                               218

    Science and Metaphysics--Berkeley, Hume, and Hobbes--Existence of
    Matter and Mind--Descartes's Contribution--Materialism and
    Idealism--Criticism of Materialism--Berkeley's Idealism--Criticism
    of Idealism--Empirical Idealism--Materialism as opposed to
    Supernaturalism--Mind and Brain--Origin of Life--Teleology,
    Chance, and the Argument from Design.

CHAPTER XIV

FREEDOM OF THOUGHT                                        232

    Authority and Knowledge in Science--The Duty of Doubt--Authority
    and Individual Judgment in Religion--The Protestant Position--Sir
    Charles Lyell and the Deluge--Infallibility--The Church and
    Science--Morality and Dogma--Civil and Religious
    Liberty--Agnosticism and Clericalism--Meaning of
    Agnosticism--Knowledge and Evidence--The Method of Agnosticism.

CHAPTER XV

THE BIBLE AND MIRACLES                                    245

    Why Huxley Came to Write about the Bible--A Magna Charta of the
    Poor--The Theological Use of the Bible--The Doctrine of Biblical
    Infallibility--The Bible and Science--The Three Hypotheses of the
    Earth's History--Changes in the Past Proved--The Creation
    Hypothesis--Gladstone on Genesis--Genesis not a Record of
    Fact--The Hypothesis of Evolution--The New Testament--Theory of
    Inspiration--Reliance on the Miraculous--The Continuity of Nature
    no a priori Argument against Miracles---Possibilities and
    Impossibilities--Miracles a Question of Evidence--Praise of the
    Bible.

CHAPTER XVI

ETHICS OF THE COSMOS                                      261

    Conduct and Metaphysics--Conventional and Critical Minds--Good
    and Evil--Huxley's Last Appearance at Oxford--The Ethical Process
    and the Cosmic Process--Man's Intervention--The Cosmic Process
    Evil--Ancient Reconciliations--Modern Acceptance of the
    Difficulties--Criticism of Huxley's Pessimism--Man and his Ethical
    Aspirations Part of the Cosmos.

CHAPTER XVII

CLOSING DAYS AND SUMMARY                                  275

    Huxley's Life in London--Decennial
    Periods--Ill-health--Retirement to Eastbourne--Death--Personal
    Appearance--Methods of Work--Personal Characteristics--An Inspirer
    of Others--His Influence in Science--A Naturalist by Vocation--His
    Aspirations.

INDEX                                                     287

ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                         PAGE
THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY--From a photograph by
  London Stereoscopic Company                    Frontispiece

THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY, 1857--Reproduced by
  permission from "Natural Science," vol. vii.,
  No. 42                                               64

SIR JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER--From a photograph
  by Elliott and Fry, London                           98

CHARLES DARWIN--From the painting by Hon.
  John Collier in the National Portrait Gallery       146

SIR CHARLES LYELL--From a photograph by London
  Stereoscopic Company                                236

CARICATURE OF HUXLEY DRAWN BY HIMSELF--Reproduced
  by permission from "Natural
  Science," vol. vii., No. 46.                       276

LIST OF HUXLEY'S WRITINGS

This list is offered, not as a bibliography in the technical sense, but as an indication of
the sources in which the vast majority of Huxley's scientific and general work may be consulted
most conveniently.

The Scientific Memoirs of Thomas Henry Huxley. Edited by Professor Sir Michael Foster and Professor
E. Ray Lankester; in four volumes. London, Macmillan & Co.; New York, D. Appleton.

     This magnificent collection is intended to contain all Huxley's
     original scientific papers, brought together from the multitude
     of scientific periodicals in which they appeared, with
     reproductions of the original illustrations. The only exception
     is the monograph on Oceanic Hydrozoa. The first volume appeared
     in 1898; the second in 1899, and the others are to follow
     quickly.

Collected Essays by T.H. Huxley; nine volumes of the Eversley Series. Macmillan & Co. London,
1893-95.

     This set, edited by Huxley himself, contains the more important
     of his more general contributions to science and his literary,
     philosophical, and political and critical essays. Each volume has
     a preface specially written, and the first volume contains his
     autobiography.

The Oceanic Hydrozoa; a description of the Calycophoridæ and Physophoridæ observed during the
Voyage of H.M.S. Rattlesnake in the years 1846-50, with a general introduction. Ray Society.
London, 1859.

Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature. Williams & Norgate. London, 1863.

On our Knowledge of the Causes of Organic Phenomena; being Six Lectures to Working Men. Hardwicke.
London, 1863.

Lectures on the Elements of Comparative Anatomy. On the Classification of Animals and the Vertebrate
Skull. Churchill & Sons. London, 1864.

An Elementary Atlas of Comparative Osteology. In twelve plates. Williams & Norgate. London, 1864.

Lessons in Elementary Physiology. Macmillan & Co. London, 1866.

An Introduction to the Classification of Animals. Churchill. London, 1869.

A Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals. Churchill. London, 1871.

A Course of Practical Instruction in Elementary Biology, assisted by H.N. Martin. Macmillan.
London, 1875.

A Manual of the Anatomy of Invertebrated Animals. Churchill. London, 1877.

Lay Sermons, Essays, and Reviews. Macmillan. London, 1877.

American Addresses, with a Lecture on the Study of Biology. Macmillan. London, 1877.

Physiography, an Introduction to the Study of Zoölogy. International Scientific Series. Kegan
Paul. London, 1880.

Introductory Primer. Science Primers. Macmillan. London, 1880.

The Life and Letters of Charles Darwin. Edited by his son, Francis Darwin. Volume II., with
Chapter V. by Professor Huxley on the Reception of the Origin of Species. John Murray. London,
1887.

Life of Richard Owen. By his grandson. With an Essay on Owen's Position in Anatomical Science,
by T.H. Huxley. John Murray. London, 1894.

Some men are born to greatness: even before their arrival in the world their future is marked
out for them. All the advantages that wealth and the experience of friends can bring attend
their growth to manhood, and their success almost loses its interest because of the ease with
which it is attained. Few of the leaders of science were in such a position: many of them,
such as Priestley, Davy, Faraday, John Hunter, and Linnæus were of humble parentage, and received
the poorest education: most of them, like Huxley himself, have come from parents who were able
to do little more for their children than set them out into life along the ordinary educational
avenues. In Huxley's boyhood at least a comfortable income was necessary for this: in every
civilised country nowadays, state endowments, or private endowments, are ready to help every
capable boy, as far as Huxley was helped, and in his progress from boyhood to supreme distinction,
there is nothing that cannot be emulated by every boy at school to-day. The minds of human
beings when they are born into the world are as naked as their bodies; it matters not if parents,
grandparents, and remoter ancestors were unlettered or had the wisdom of all the ages, the
new mind has to build up its own wisdom from the beginning. We cannot even say with certainty
that children inherit mental aptitudes and capacities from their parents; for as tall sons
may come from short parents or beautiful daughters from ugly parents, so we may find in the
capacities of the parents no traces of the future greatness of their children. None the less
it is interesting to learn what we can about the parents of great men; and Huxley tells us
that he thinks himself to have inherited many characters of his body and mind from his mother.

Thomas Henry Huxley was born on the 4th of May, 1825, at Ealing, then a little country village,
now united to London as a great suburb. He was the seventh child of George Huxley, who was
second master at the school of Dr. Nicholson at Ealing. In these days private schools of varying
character were very numerous in England, and this establishment seems to have been of high-class
character, for Cardinal Newman and many other distinguished men received part of their education
there. As it happened, this natural gift for drawing proved of the greatest service to him
throughout his career. It is imperative that every investigator of the anatomy of plants and
animals should be able to sketch his observations, and there is no greater aid to seeing things
as they are than the continuous attempt to reproduce them by pencil or brush.

Huxley was christened Thomas Henry, and he was unaware why these names were chosen, but he
humorously records the curious chance that his parents should have chosen for him the "name
of that particular apostle with whom he had always felt most sympathy."

Of his childhood little is recorded. He remembers being vain of his curls, and his mother's
expressed regret that he soon lost the beauty of early childhood. He attended for some time
the school at Ealing with which his father was associated, but he has little to say for the
training he received there.

Huxley was soon removed from school and continued his own education for several years, by reading
of the most desultory sort. His special inclinations were towards mechanical problems, and
had he been able to follow his own wishes there is little doubt but that he would have entered
on the profession of an engineer. It is probable that there was a great deal more in his wishes
than the familiar inclination of a clever boy to engineering. All through the pursuit of anatomy,
which was the chief business of his life, it was the structure of animals, the different modifications
of great ground-plans which they presented, that interested him. But the opportunity for engineering
did not present itself, and at an exceedingly early age he began to study medicine. Two brothers-in-law
were doctors, and this accidental fact probably determined his choice. In these days the study
of medicine did not begin as now with a general and scientific education, but the young medical
student was apprenticed to a doctor engaged in practice. He was supposed to learn the compounding
of drugs in the dispensary attached to the doctor's consulting-room; to be taught the dressing
of wounds and the superficial details of the medical craft while he pursued his studies in
anatomy under the direction of the doctor. Huxley's master was his brother-in-law, Dr. Salt,
a London practitioner, and he began his work when only twelve or thirteen years of age. In
this system everything depended upon the superior; under the careful guidance of a conscientious
and able man it was possible for an apt pupil to learn a great deal of science and to become
an expert in the treatment of disease. Huxley, however, had only a short experience of this
kind of training. He was taken by some senior student friends to a post-mortem examination,
and although then, as all through his life, he was most sensitive to the disagreeable side
of anatomical pursuits, on this occasion he gratified his curiosity too ardently. He did not
cut himself, but in some way poisonous matter from the body affected him, and he fell into
so bad a state of health that he had to be sent into the country to recruit. He lived for some
time at a farmhouse in Warwickshire with friends of his father and slowly recovered health.
From that time, however, all through his life, he suffered periodically from prostrating dyspepsia.
After some months devoted to promiscuous reading he resumed his work under his brother-in-law
in London. He confesses that he was far from a model student.

It is almost certain, however, that Huxley underestimated the value of this time. He stored
his mind with both literature and science, and laid the foundation of the extremely varied
intellectual interests which afterwards proved to him of so much value. It is certain, also,
that during this time he acquired a fair knowledge of French and German. It would be difficult
to exaggerate the value to him of this addition to his weapons for attacking knowledge. To
do the best work in any scientific pursuit it is necessary to freshen one's own mind by contact
with the ideas and results of other workers. As these workers are scattered over different
countries it is necessary to transcend the confusion of Babel and read what they write in their
own tongues. When Huxley was young, the great reputation of Cuvier overshadowed English anatomy,
and English anatomists did little more than seek in nature what Cuvier had taught them to find.
In Germany other men and other ideas were to be found. Johannes Mueller and Von Baer were attacking
the problems of nature in a spirit that was entirely different, and Huxley, by combining what
he was taught in England with what he learned from German methods, came to his own investigations
with a wider mind. But his conquest of French and German brought with it advantages in addition
to these technical gains. There is no reason to believe that he troubled himself with grammatical
details and with the study of these languages as subjects in themselves. He acquired them simply
to discover the new ideas concealed in them, and he by no means confined himself to the reading
of foreign books on the subjects of his own studies. He read French and German poetry, literature,
and philosophy, and so came to have a knowledge of the ideas of those outside his own race
on all the great problems that interest mankind. A good deal has been written as to the narrowing
tendency of scientific pursuits, but with Huxley, as with all the scientific men the present
writer has known, the mechanical necessity of learning to read other languages has brought
with it that wide intellectual sympathy which is the beginning of all culture and which is
not infrequently missed by those who have devoted themselves to many grammars and a single
literature. The old proverb, "Whatever is worth doing is worth doing well," has only value
when "well" is properly interpreted. Although the science of language is as great as any science,
it is not the science of language, but the practical interpretation of it, that is of value
to most people, and there is much to be said for the method of anatomists like Huxley, who
passed lightly over grammatical minutiæ and went straight with a dictionary to the reading
of each new tongue.

After a short period of apprenticeship, or sometimes during the course of it, the young medical
students "walked" a hospital. This consisted in attending the demonstrations of the physicians
and surgeons in the wards of the hospital and in pursuing anatomical, chemical, and physiological
study in the medical school attached to the hospital. A large fee was charged for the complete
course, but at many of the hospitals there were entrance scholarships which relieved those
who gained them of all cost. In 1842 Huxley and his elder brother, James, applied for such
free scholarships at Charing Cross Hospital. There is no record in the books of the hospital
as to what persons supported the application. The entry in the minutes for September 6, 1842,
states that

     "Applications from the following gentlemen (including the two
     sons of Mr. George Huxley, late senior assistant master in Ealing
     School), were laid before the meeting, and their testimonials
     being approved of, it was decided that those gentlemen should be
     admitted as free scholars, if their classical attainments should
     be found upon examination to be satisfactory."

It appears that the two Huxleys were able to satisfy the probably unexacting demands of the
classical examiners, for they began their hospital work in October of the same year.

Those who know the magnificent laboratories and lecture-rooms which have grown up in connection
with the larger London hospitals must have difficulty in realising the humble arrangements
for teaching students in the early forties. What endowments there were--and Charing Cross was
never a richly endowed hospital--were devoted entirely to the hospital as opposed to the teaching
school. There were no separate buildings for anatomy, physiology, and so forth. At Charing
Cross the dissecting-room was in a cellar under the hospital, and subjects like chemistry,
botany, physiology, and so forth were crowded into inconvenient side rooms. The teachers were
not specialists, devoting their whole attention to particular branches of science, but were
doctors engaged in practice, who, in addition to their private duties and their work at the
hospital, each undertook to lecture upon a special scientific subject. Huxley came specially
under the influence of Mr. Wharton Jones, who had begun to teach physiology at the hospital
a year before. Mr. Jones throughout his life was engaged in professional work, his specialty
being ophthalmic surgery, but he was a devoted student of anatomy and physiology, and made
several classical contributions to scientific knowledge, his best-known discoveries relating
to blood corpuscles and to the nature of the mammalian egg-cell. But perhaps his greatest claim
to fame is that it was he who first imbued Huxley with a love for anatomical science and with
a knowledge of the methods of investigation. At the end of his first session, in 1843, Huxley
received the first prize in the senior physiology class, while his brother got a "good conduct"
prize.

This little paper, although Huxley deprecates it, was remarkable as the work of so young an
investigator. In it he demonstrated the existence of a hitherto unrecognised layer in the inner
root-sheath of hairs, a layer that has been known since as Huxley's layer.

There is no record in the minutes of the hospital school that Huxley gained any other school
prizes. His name reappears only in formal applications at the beginning of each session for
the renewal of his free scholarship. In this respect he is in marked contrast to his fellow-student,
afterwards Sir Joseph Fayrer, who appears to have taken almost every prize open to him. On
the other hand, his attainments in anatomy and physiology brought him distinction in a wider
field than the hospital school, for he obtained, in the "honours" division of the first examination
for the degree of Bachelor of Medicine at the University of London, the second place with a
medal. And it is certain that he was far from neglecting his strictly professional work, although,
no doubt, he devoted much time to reading and research in pure science, for in the winter of
1845-46, having completed his course at the hospital, he was prepared to offer himself at the
examination for the membership of the Royal College of Surgeons; but, being as yet under twenty-one
years of age, could not be admitted as a candidate.

It was now time for Huxley definitely to enter on his profession. He would have preferred to
continue his investigations in London and to wait for the chance of a teaching post in physiology,
but it was necessary to earn a living. One of those whom he consulted was his fellow-student,
Joseph Fayrer, who, hailing from Bermuda, knew something of those who go down to the sea in ships.

About the same time he passed the examination of the Royal College of Surgeons and so became
a fully qualified medical man. Haslar Hospital was the chief naval hospital to which invalided
sailors were sent. There was a considerable staff of young surgeons, as navy surgeons were
usually sent for a term to work in the hospital before being gazetted to a ship in commission.
In connection with the hospital, there was a museum of natural history containing a collection
of considerable importance slowly gathered from the gifts of sailors and officers. The museum
curator was an enthusiastic naturalist, and Huxley must have had the opportunity of extending
his knowledge of at least the external characters of many forms of life hitherto unknown to
him. A few years later, the curator of the museum, with the help of two of Huxley's successors,
published a Manual of Natural History for the Use of Travellers, and it is certain that Huxley
at least did not lose at Haslar any of the enthusiasm for zoölogy with which he had been inspired
at the Charing Cross Hospital. The chief of the hospital was Sir John Richardson, an excellent
naturalist, and well known as an arctic explorer. He seems to have recognised the peculiar
ability of his young assistant, and although he was a silent, reserved man, who seldom encouraged
his assistants by talking to them, he made several attempts to obtain a suitable post for Huxley.
Such a post was that of surgeon to H.M.S. Rattlesnake, then about to start under the command
of Captain Owen Stanley for surveying work in the Torres Straits. Captain Stanley had expressed
a wish for a surgeon who knew something of science, and, on the recommendation of Sir John
Richardson, obtained the post for Huxley. There was, however, to be a special naturalist attached
to the expedition, but Huxley had the opportunity he wanted. After a brief stay of seven months
at the Haslar Hospital he left it for his ship, and thus definitely entered on his work in
the world.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: This and many other details in this chapter are taken from an autobiographical
sketch in the first volume of Huxley's collected essays published by Macmillan, London, 1894.]

CHAPTER II

THE VOYAGE OF THE "RATTLESNAKE"

Her Majesty's ship the Rattlesnake, one of the old class of 28-gun ships, sailed from Plymouth
for the Torres Straits and the Australian seas on December 12, 1846. Her commander was Captain
Owen Stanley, a young but distinguished officer, the son of the Bishop of Norwich and a brother
of Dean Stanley, who afterwards played so great a part in the social and religious history
of England. She carried a complement of 180 officers and men, and was attended by the Bramble
and the Castlereagh, two small vessels of light draught, whose purpose was to precede her in
shallow waters. The young colonies of Australia were developing commerce with the mother country,
and the business of the Rattlesnake was to survey the waters round about the Torres Straits,
that the passage towards India on the homeward trip might be made safer. Incidentally the vessel
was to land a treasure of £50,000 at the Cape of Good Hope, and another of £15,000 at the Mauritius.
The Admiralty Commissioners left full powers to Captain Stanley to carry out the details of
his mission according to his own judgment, but he was solemnly warned upon two points. Many
very unfortunate casualties had occurred when sailors came in contact with the little-known
savages of the southern seas, and the Admiralty instructed him as follows:

     "In stretching off from the Barrier Reefs to the eastward, in
     order to explore the safety of the sea intervening between them
     and Louisiade and New Guinea, you will have occasion to approach
     these shores, in which case you must constantly be on your guard
     against the treacherous disposition of their inhabitants. All
     barter for refreshments must be conducted under the eye of an
     officer, and every pains be taken to avoid giving any just cause
     of offence to their prejudices, especially with respect to their
     women."

The second warning concerned grave international matters. European politics were in the unsettled
condition which, after the illusive international courtesies of the Great Exhibition of 1851,
ended in the Crimean War, and it was feared that in the event of hostilities breaking out,
the zeal of the officers for their country might tempt them to transcend their peaceful occupation.
The instructions with regard to this ran as follows:

     "In the event of this country being involved in hostilities
     during your absence, you will take care never to be surprised;
     but you are to refrain from any act of aggression towards the
     vessels or settlements of any nation with which we may be at war,
     as expeditions employed on behalf of discovery and science have
     always been considered by all civilised communities as acting
     under a general safeguard."

The great scientific expeditions sent out in recent times by the governments of Britain, Germany,
and the United States, were fitted with every convenience for the staff of naturalists, and
the luxuries and comforts of civilisation attended them round the world. The late Professor
Mosely, for instance, who was a naturalist on the English Challenger expedition, told the present
writer of a pleasant way in which a peculiarity of the deep sea was made to pay toll to the
comfort of those on board ship. The great ocean depths all over the world, under the burning
skies of the tropics, or below the arctic ice-fields, are extremely cold, the water at the
bottom always being only a few degrees above freezing point. When the dredge brought up a sample
of the abysmal mud at a convenient time, it was used to ice the wine for the officers' mess.
There was, however, no cooled champagne for Huxley.

Huxley was only the surgeon on board the Rattlesnake, and his pursuit of natural history was
his own affair. There was a special naturalist appointed to the expedition, no doubt chosen
because four years earlier, as assistant to Professor Jukes, he had been attached as naturalist
to the expedition of the Fly in the same waters. His name was John MacGillivray, and he was
the son of an exceedingly able naturalist whose reputation has been overshadowed by the greater
names of the middle century. William MacGillivray, the father, sometime professor at the University
of Aberdeen, was one of those driven by an almost instinctive desire to the study of nature.
In his youth, when he was a poor lad, desiring to see as much as possible of his native land,
and above all to visit the great museums and libraries of the south, he walked from Aberdeen
to London with no luggage but a copy of Smith's Flora Britannica. He was an ardent botanist,
a collector of insects and molluscs, and one of the pioneers in the anatomy of birds. There
are many curious allusions in his writings which seem to shew that he too was beginning to
doubt the fixity of species, and to guess at the struggle for existence and survival of the
fittest which the great Darwin was the first to make a part of the knowledge of the world.
It must be confessed that his son John, the companion of Huxley, had little of his father's
ability. He was three years older than Huxley, and broke off his medical course at the University
of Edinburgh to sail in the Fly. After the return of the Rattlesnake, he was appointed in 1852
as naturalist to H.M.S. Herald, then starting under Captain Denham for surveying work round
the shores of South America. He left that ship at Sydney, and after many years' wandering about
the southern seas, accounts of which he communicated from time to time to Sydney newspapers,
he died in 1867. He was a zealous collector of plants and animals, but apparently cared little
for the study of his captures, either in life, in relation to their surroundings, like Darwin,
or for the structure of their bodies, like Huxley. The somewhat unpleasing nature of his regard
for animals appears in the following story which he himself tells:

     "While at dinner off Darnley Island near the Torres Straits, news
     was brought that Dzum was under the stern in a canoe, shouting
     out loudly for Dzoka (MacGillivray's native name), and, on going
     up I found that he had brought off the barit, which after a deal
     of trouble I struck a bargain for and obtained. It was a very
     fine specimen of Cuscus Maculatus, quite tame and kept in a large
     cage of split bamboo. Dzum seemed very unwilling to part with the
     animal, and repeatedly enjoined me to take great care of it and
     feed it well, which to please him I promised to do, although I
     valued it merely for its skin, and was resolved to kill it for
     that purpose at my first convenience."

On the other hand, MacGillivray paid great attention to native languages, and collected vocabularies
of some value. To him was entrusted the task of writing an account of the voyage, and it is
from his rather dull pages, brightened by illustrations from Huxley's sketches, that the incidents
of the voyage are taken. The references to Huxley in the narrative are slight, and seem to
shew that no great intimacy existed between the two young men, the one a naturalist by profession,
the other as yet a surgeon, but more devoted to natural history than the naturalist. Such references
as occur relate to Huxley's constant occupations on shore, sketching natives and their dwellings,
and his apparatus on board for trawling, dredging, and dissecting.

The voyage out was uneventful. The ship touched at Madeira and at Rio de Janeiro, and then
crossed the South Atlantic to Simon's Town at the Cape of Good Hope, where the first quantity
of treasure was to be landed. There they found the colony distressed by the long continuance
of the Kaffir war. Prices for everything were extortionate, and the colonists had no mind for
any affairs than their own, so after a short stay the voyagers were glad to set out for the
Mauritius. That island, although in the possession of Britain, still retained a strong impress
of its French occupation, and the travellers were interested by the mixture of population inhabiting
it.[B]

     "Passing through the closely packed lines of shipping, and
     landing as a stranger at Port Louis, perhaps the first thing to
     engage attention is the strange mixture of
     nations,--representatives, he might at first be inclined to
     imagine, of half the countries of the earth. He stares at a
     coolie from Madras with a breech-cloth and a soldier's jacket, or
     a stately bearded Moor striking a bargain with a Parsee merchant.
     A Chinaman with two bundles slung on a bamboo hurries past,
     jostling a group of young Creole exquisites smoking their
     cheroots at a corner, and talking of last night's Norma, or the
     programme of the evening's performance at the Hippodrome in the
     Champ de Mars. His eye next catches a couple of sailors reeling
     out of a grogshop, to the amusement of a group of laughing
     negresses, in white muslin dresses of the latest Parisian
     fashion, contrasting strongly with a modestly attired Cingalese
     woman, and an Indian ayah with her young charge. Amidst all this,
     the French language prevails; and everything more or less
     pertains of the French character, and an Englishman can scarcely
     believe that he is in one of the colonies of his own country."

From Mauritius they proceeded to the English-looking colony of Tasmania, and after a few days
set out for Sydney, arriving there on July 16th. The surveying officers had tedious work to
do there, and Huxley stayed in Sydney for three months. Then, and in the course of three other
prolonged stays in that town during the expedition, Huxley entered into the society of the
town and became a general favourite. He is still remembered there, and the accompanying illustration[C]
is a copy of an original sketch of himself, now in the possession of an Australian lady. He
drew it on the fly-leaf of a volume of Lytton's poems and presented it on her birthday to the
little daughter of a friend. At Sydney, too, he met and gained the love of the lady, then Miss
Henrietta A. Heathorn, who afterwards became his wife.

On October 11th the Rattlesnake sailed northwards to begin the real work of the expedition.
The great island of New Guinea, lying to the north of Australia, is separated from it only
by the comparatively narrow Torres Straits. Through these lies the natural route for the commerce
between Australia and the Northern Hemisphere. The eastward prolongation of New Guinea, and
the coast of Queensland, enclose between them a great tropical sea which gradually converges
to the Straits. The waters are very tempestuous, and the navigation is made more dangerous
by the thousands of coral islands and coral reefs that stud the ocean. Following the shoreline
of Queensland, at a distance of from ten to one hundred and fifty miles, and stretching for
twelve hundred and fifty miles, is the Great Barrier Reef of Australia, one of the wonders
of the world. The shelving floor of the ocean rises nearly to the surface along this line,
and vast colonies of coral building creatures have formed their reefs up to the water's edge
along the ridge. The turbulent waves scouring over this living mass have carved and moulded
it into millions of fantastic islands, sometimes heaping detached masses of dead debris high
above the surface of the water. At low tide the most wonderful fields of the animal flowers
of the sea are exposed. Some of them form branching systems of hard skeletons like stony trees,
the soft, brightly coloured animals dotted over the stems like buds. Others form solid masses;
others, again, rounded skull like boulders, or elevations like toadstools. The colours of the
skeletons and the animals are vivid scarlets and purples and greens. Sea anemones, shell-fish,
and starfish of the most vivid hues are as abundant as the corals. Brilliant fish dart through
the blossoms of the marine gardens, and sea birds scream and wheel in the air. The whole region
is a paradise for the naturalist. Along the seaward side of the reef the great ocean surges
and thunders perpetually. Between it and the shore the quiet channel glows under the tropical
skies. It was amid such scenes as these that the Rattlesnake moved for nearly four years in
the slow work of taking soundings, fixing the exact position of channels through the outer
reef by slow triangular measurements, and generally preparing for the safety of the commerce
of all nations. The ship went first up to Port Curtis in Brisbane; then fetched back to Sydney.
Its next trip was south to the strait between Tasmania and Australia, then back to Sydney;
then again along the Barrier Reef right up to the Torres Straits. After work there, it returned
again to Sydney, and then set out for the Louisiade Archipelago, which stretches through the
coral sea south-eastward from New Guinea; then again to the Australian shores of the Torres
Straits, and finally arrived in Sydney in March, 1850, where the Captain suddenly died, and
the ship was ordered to return to England.

Throughout the voyage MacGillivray and Huxley busied themselves with collecting animals on
sea and on shore. MacGillivray seems to have taken for his share of the spoil chiefly such
animals as provided shells or skins or skeletons suitable for handing over to museums. Huxley
occupied himself incessantly with dissecting tools and with the microscope, with results to
be described in a later chapter. The better equipped expeditions of modern times were provided
with elaborate appliances for bringing up samples of living creatures from all depths of the
floor of the ocean, and with complicated towing nets for securing the floating creatures of
the surface of the seas. The Rattlesnake naturalists had to content themselves with simple
apparatus devised by themselves. At an early period of the voyage attempts were made to take
deep soundings, but no bottom was reached at a depth of two thousand four hundred fathoms,
and their later work was confined to surface animals or to inshore dredging in shallow waters.
They began near Rio.

     "None of the ship's boats could be spared, so I [MacGillivray]
     hired one pulled by four negro slaves who, although strong,
     active fellows, had great objections to straining their backs at
     the oar, when the dredge was down. No sieve having been
     supplied, we were obliged to sift the contents of the dredge
     through our hands--a tedious and superficial mode of examination.
     Two days after, Mr. Huxley and I set to work in Botafogo Bay,
     provided with a wire-gauze meat-cover and a curious machine for
     cleaning rice; these answered capitally as substitutes for
     sieves, and enabled us, by a thorough examination of the contents
     of the dredge, to detect some forty-five species of Mollusca and
     Radiata, some of which were new to science."

By "new to science" MacGillivray meant no more than that the particular genera and species
had not been captured before. Huxley, by his anatomical work, showed many of the most familiar
creatures in a light "new to science," by revealing their true structure and relationships.

     "Among the acquisitions," MacGillivray goes on, "I may mention a
     new species of Amphioxus, a genus of small fishes exhibiting more
     anomalies than any other known to Ichthyologists, and the lowest
     organisation found in the class. It somewhat resembles the
     sand-eels of Britain in habits, like them moving with
     extraordinary rapidity through the sand. By dint of bribery and
     ridicule we had at length managed to get our boatmen to work
     tolerably well, and when we were alike well-roasted by the sun
     and repeatedly drenched, besides being tired out and hungry, they
     had become quite submissive, and exchanged their grumbling for
     merriment."

The towing net repeatedly produced a rich harvest. It was constructed by themselves, and consisted
of a bag of the bunting used for flags, two feet deep, the mouth being sewn round a wooden
hoop fourteen inches in diameter; three pieces of cord, a foot and a half long, were secured
to the hoop at equal intervals and had their ends tied together. This net was towed behind
the ship by a stout cord. The water passed through the meshes of the cloth and left behind
in the pocket any small floating animals.

Excursions ashore to the little savage islands or to the mainland were a source of constant
interest, and it cannot be doubted that the acquaintance Huxley thus gained with many of the
very low savages of Australia and New Guinea prepared his mind for the revolutionary doctrine
of descent which he embraced a few years later. At the present time, there are probably very
few parts of earth where there are yet to be found savages unaltered by civilisation. Some
of the low races with which Huxley came in contact are now extinct. All the survivors have
come in contact with white races, and their habits and customs have been altered. Before long
the total extinction of these lower races is to be expected, and there will then be left an
enormous gap between the lower animals and the dominant, aggressive, yellow and white races
which are spreading over the earth and making the lower races perish before them, as the smaller
but more cunning European rat has exterminated the native brown rat of Australia. In their
various excursions upon the Australian mainland they had no trouble of any kind with the natives.
These were at first suspicious of the doings of the white men, and their total ignorance of
the use of firearms tempted them to rashness; but a few friendly gifts, and the exercise of
tact in negotiating exchanges with them, made all the encounters pass off pleasantly. On the
other hand, in the Louisiade Archipelago where the savages were of a higher type, difficulties
constantly occurred. On one occasion, in a bay on the south side of Joannet Island the party
was attacked.

     "In the grey of the morning the look-outs reported the approach
     of three canoes with about ten men in each. On two or three
     persons shewing themselves in the bow of the pinnace, in front of
     the rain awning, the natives ceased paddling, as if baulked in
     their design of surprising the large boat; but, after a short
     consultation, they came alongside in their usual noisy manner.
     After a stay of about five minutes only they pushed off to the
     galley, and some more sham bartering was attempted, but they had
     nothing to give in exchange for the wares they so much coveted.
     In a short time the rudeness and overbearing insolence of the
     natives had risen to a pitch which left no doubt of their hostile
     intentions. The anchor was got up, when some of the blacks seized
     the painter, and others, in trying to capsize the boat, brought
     the gunwale down to the water's edge, at the same time grappling
     with the men to pull them out, and dragging the galley inshore
     towards the shoal-water. The bowman, with the anchor in his hand,
     was struck on the head with a stone-headed axe. The blow was
     repeated, but fortunately took effect only on the wash-streak.
     Another of the crew was struck at with a similar weapon, but
     warded off the blow, although held fast by one arm, when, just as
     the savage was making another stroke, Lieutenant Dayman, who up
     till now had exercised the utmost forbearance, fired at him with
     a musket. The man did not drop, although wounded in the thigh.
     But even this, unquestionably their first experience of firearms,
     did not intimidate the natives, one of whom, standing on a block
     of coral, threw a spear which passed across the breast of one of
     the boat's crew and lodged in the bend of one arm, opening a
     vein. They raised a loud shout when the spear was seen to take
     effect, and threw several others which missed. Lieutenant
     Simpson, who had been watching what was going on, then fired from
     the pinnace with buckshot and struck them, when, finding that the
     large boat, though at anchor, could assist the smaller one, the
     canoes were paddled inshore in great haste and confusion. Some
     more musket shots were fired, and the galley went in chase
     endeavouring to turn the canoes, so as to bring them under fire
     of the pinnace's twelve-pounder howitzer, which was speedily
     mounted and fired. The shot either struck one of the canoes or
     went within a few inches of the mark, on which the natives
     instantly jumped overboard into the shallow water, making for the
     mangroves, which they succeeded in reaching, dragging their
     canoes with them. Two rounds of grape-shot crashing through the
     branches dispersed the party, but afterwards they moved two of
     the canoes out of sight. The remaining one was brought out after
     breakfast by the galley under cover of the pinnace, and was towed
     off to some distance. The paddles having been taken out and the
     spears broken and left in her, she was let go to drift down
     toward a village whence the attacking party were supposed to have
     come. Some blood in this canoe, although not the one most aimed
     at, showed that the firing had not been ineffective. This act of
     deliberate treachery was perpetrated by persons who had always
     been well treated by us, for several of the natives present were
     recognised as having been alongside the ship in Coral Haven.
     This, their first act of positive hostility, affords, I think,
     conclusive evidence of the savage disposition of the natives of
     this part of the Louisiade Archipelago when incited by the hope
     of plunder, and shews that no confidence should ever be reposed
     in them, unless, perhaps in the presence of a numerically
     superior force, or in the close vicinity of a ship. At the same
     time, the boldness of these savages in attacking, with thirty men
     in three canoes, two boats known to contain at least twenty
     persons--even in the hopes of taking them by surprise--and in not
     being at once driven off upon feeling the novel and deadly
     effects of firearms, shews no little amount of bravery."

On their last visit to Cape York, in the extreme north of Australia, the party had the remarkable
experience of rescuing a white woman from captivity among the natives.

     "In the afternoon some of our people on shore were surprised to
     see a young white woman come up to claim their protection from a
     party of natives from whom she had recently made her escape, and
     who she thought would otherwise bring her back. Of course she
     received every attention, and was taken on board the ship by the
     first boat, when she told her story which is briefly as follows:
     Her name is Barbara Thomson. She was born at Aberdeen in
     Scotland, and, along with her parents, emigrated to New South
     Wales. About four years and a half ago she left Moreton Bay with
     her husband in a small cutter, called the America, of which he
     was the owner, for the purpose of picking up some of the oil from
     the wreck of a whaler, lost on the Bampton shoal, to which place
     one of her late crew undertook to guide them; their ultimate
     intention was to go on to Port Essington. The man who acted as
     pilot was unable to find the wreck, and after much quarreling on
     board in consequence, and the loss of two men by drowning and of
     another who was left on a small uninhabited island, they made
     their way up to the Torres Straits, where, during a gale of wind
     their vessel struck upon a reef on the eastern Prince of Wales
     Island. The two remaining men were lost in attempting to swim on
     shore through the surf, but the woman was afterwards rescued by a
     party of natives on a turtling excursion, who, when the gale
     subsided, swam on board and supported her on shore between two of
     their number. One of these blacks, Boroto by name, took
     possession of the woman as his share of the plunder; she was
     compelled to live with him, but was well treated by all the men,
     although many of the women, jealous of the attention shewn her,
     for a long time evinced anything but kindness. A curious
     circumstance secured for her the protection of one of the
     principal men of the tribe. This person, acting upon the belief,
     universal throughout Australia and the islands of the Torres
     Strait, so far as hitherto known, that white people are the
     ghosts of the aborigines, fancied that in the stranger he
     recognised a long-lost daughter, and at once admitted her into
     the relationship which he thought had formerly subsisted between
     them. She was immediately acknowledged by the whole tribe as one
     of themselves, thus securing an extensive connection in relatives
     of all denominations. The headquarters of the tribe being on an
     island which all vessels passing through the Torres Strait from
     the eastward must approach within two or three miles, she had the
     mortification of seeing from twenty to thirty or more ships go
     through every summer without anchoring in the neighbourhood, so
     as to afford the slightest opportunity of making her escape. Last
     year she heard of our two vessels being at Cape York, only twenty
     miles distant from some of the tribe who had communicated with us
     and had been well treated, but they would not take her over and
     watched her even more narrowly than before. On our second and
     present visit, however, which the Cape York people immediately
     announced by smoke signals to their friends, she was successful
     in persuading some of her more immediate friends to bring her
     across to the mainland within a short distance of where the
     vessels lay. The blacks were credulous enough to believe that as
     she had been so long with them and had been so well treated, she
     did not intend to leave them,--only 'she felt a strong desire to
     see the white people once more and shake hands with them': adding
     that she would be certain to purchase some axes, knives, tobacco,
     and other much-prized articles."

Although the external adventures of the Rattlesnake party were less varied and exciting than
might have been expected in a voyage of four years in the tropic seas and among barbarian tribes,
the mental adventures through which Huxley passed in the time must have been of the most surprising
kind. It was a four-years' course in the great university of nature, and when he had finished
it he was no longer a mere student, capricious and unsettled in his mental tastes and inclinations,
but had set his face steadily towards his future life-work. It is interesting to compare the
importance in Huxley's life of the Rattlesnake voyage with the importance in Darwin's life
of the voyage on the Beagle undertaken some fifteen years earlier. Huxley, when he started,
was a young surgeon with a taste of a vague kind for dissecting and for drawing the peculiarities
of structure of different animals revealed by the knife and the microscope. Day after day,
month after month, year after year, in the abundant leisure his slight professional duties
left him, he dissected and drew, dissected and drew, animal after animal, as he got them from
the dredge or tow-net, or from the surface of the coral reefs. He was not in any sense of the
word a collecting naturalist. The identification and naming of species interested him little.
And so, on the Rattlesnake, and in his work in continuation of the Rattlesnake investigations,--which
occupied most of his time for a few years after his return to London,--there was gradually
growing up in his mind a dim conception of the animal kingdom as a group of creatures, not
built on half a dozen or more separate plans or types, each unconnected with the other, but
as a varied set of modifications of a single type.

When Darwin set out on the Beagle, unlike Huxley, he was an enthusiastic collecting naturalist.
He had wandered from county to county in England adding new specimens to his collections of
butterflies and beetles. As the Beagle went round the world visiting remote islands, far from
land in the centre of the waters, archipelagoes of islands crowding together, islands hugging
the shore of continents, and the great continents of the old and new worlds, he continued to
collect and to classify. Gradually the resemblances and differences between the creatures inhabiting
different parts of the earth began to strike him as exhibiting an orderly plan. He saw that
under apparently the same conditions of food and temperature and moisture, in different parts
of the world the genera and species were different, and that they were most alike in regions
between which there was the most recent chance of migrations having taken place. In the quietness
of England, while Huxley was on the Rattlesnake, Darwin was slowly working towards the explanation
of all he had seen: towards the conception that animals and plants had spread slowly from common
centres, becoming more and more different from each other as they spread. He realised on his
voyage that species had come into existence by descent with modification, and before long he
was to publish to the world in the Origin of Species a vast and convincing bulk of evidence
as to the actual fact of a common descent for all the different existing organisms, and, in
his theory of natural selection, a reasonable explanation of how the fact of evolution had
come about. Darwin's greatest ally in bringing the new idea before the world was Huxley, and
Huxley was teaching himself the absolute unity of the living world. The two men were dissimilar
in tastes and temperament, and they were at work on quite different sides of nature. When the
time came, Huxley, with his commanding knowledge of the structure of animals, was ready to
support Darwin and to illustrate and amplify his arguments by a thousand anatomical proofs.
It is a curious and dramatic coincidence to realise that both men learned their very different
lessons under very similar circumstances in the tropical seas of the Southern Hemisphere.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote B: Narrative of the Voyage of H.M.S. "Rattlesnake," by John MacGillivray, F.R.G.S.
2 vols.

As the Rattlesnake sailed through the tropical seas Huxley came in contact with the very peculiar
and interesting inhabitants of the surface of the sea, known now to naturalists as pelagic
life or "plankton." Although a poet has spoken of the "unvintageable sea," all parts of the
ocean surface teem with life. Sometimes, as in high latitudes, the cold is so great that only
the simplest microscopic forms are able to maintain existence. In the tropics, animals and
plants are abundant, and sometimes by their numbers colour great areas of water; or, as in
the drift of the Gulf Stream, make a tangle of animal and plant life through which a boat travels
only with difficulty. The basis of the food supply of this vast and hungry floating life is,
as on land, vegetable life; for plants are the only creatures capable of building up food from
the gases of the air and the simple chemical salts found dissolved in water. Occasionally,
in shallow or warm seas, marine floating plants, large and visible like the sea-weeds of the
coast, form the floating masses known as Sargasso seas; more often the plants are minute, microscopic
specks visible only when a drop of water is placed under the microscope, but occurring in incredible
numbers, and, like the green vegetation of the earth, forming the ultimate food-supply of all
the living things around them. Innumerable animals, great and small, live on the plants or
upon their fellows, and, however far he may be from land, the naturalist has always abundant
material got by his daily use of the tow-net. This drifting population floats at the mercy
of the waves. Most of the animals are delicate, transparent creatures, their transparency helping
to protect them from the attacks of hungry fellows. Nerves, muscles, skin, and the organs generally
are clear, pale, and hardly visible. Such structures as the liver, the reproductive organs,
and the stomach, which cannot easily become transparent, are grouped together into small knots,
coloured brown like little masses of sea-weed. Other floating creatures are vividly coloured,
but the hues are bright blues and greens closely similar to the sparkling tints of sea-water
in sunlight. The different members of this marine flotsam frequently rise and fall periodically:
some of them sinking by day to escape the light, others rising only by day; others, again,
appearing on the surface in spring, keeping deep down in winter. Perhaps the majority of them
are phosphorescent, sometimes shining by their own light, sometimes borrowing a glory from
innumerable phosphorescent bacteria with which they are infested. Nearly every class of the
animal kingdom contributes members to this strange population. The young forms of many fish,
as for instance of conger, flying gurnards, and some flatfish, are pelagic and have colourless
blood, and pale, transparent, gelatinous or cartilaginous skeletons. The tadpole-like stages
of the sea-squirts, which in adult life are to be found attached to rocks like weeds, drift
about in the surface waters until their time comes for settling down in life. Many other Ascidians
pass their whole life as pelagic creatures. A few molluscs, many kinds of worms, echinoderms,
and their allies, crab and lobster-like creatures in innumerable different stages of development,
are to be found there, while unnumbered polyps and jelly-fish are always present. It would
be difficult to imagine a better training for the naturalist than to spend years, as Huxley
did, working at this varied assortment of living creatures. Huxley declared that the difficulties
of examining such flimsy creatures had been exaggerated.

     "At least, with a good light and a good microscope, with the ship
     tolerably steady, I never failed in procuring all the information
     I required. The great matter is to obtain a good successive
     supply of specimens, as the more delicate oceanic species are
     usually unfit for examination within a few hours after they are
     taken."

Day after day, as the Rattlesnake crept from island to island, Huxley examined the animals
brought up by his tow-net. He made endless dissections, and gradually accumulated a large portfolio
of drawings. Much of the time he passed at Sydney was spent in libraries and museums, comparing
his own observations with the recorded observations of earlier workers, and receiving from
the combination of his own work and the work of others new ideas for his future investigations.
It was all entirely a labour of love; it lay outside the professional duties by which he made
his living, and for a long time it seemed as if he was not even to gain reputation by the discoveries
he knew himself to be making.

This first successful paper was a memoir On the Anatomy and the Affinities of the Family of
Medusæ, and was sent at Captain Stanley's suggestion to that officer's father, the Bishop of
Norwich, who communicated it to the Royal Society. It is a curious circumstance that Huxley,
who afterwards met with so virulent opposition from bishops, owed his first public success
to one of them. Professor Sir Michael Foster writes of this period in Huxley's life:

     "The career of many a successful man has shewn that obstacles
     often prove the mother of endeavour, and never was this lesson
     clearer than in the case of Huxley. Working amidst a host of
     difficulties, in want of room, in want of light, seeking to
     unravel the intricacies of minute structure with a microscope
     lashed to secure steadiness, cramped within a tiny cabin, jostled
     by the tumult of a crowded ship's life, with the scantiest supply
     of books of reference, with no one at hand of whom he could take
     counsel on the problems opening up before him, he gathered for
     himself during these four years a large mass of accurate,
     important, and in most cases novel, observations and illustrated
     them with skilful, pertinent drawings. Even his intellectual
     solitude had its good effects: it drove him to ponder over the
     new facts which came before him, and all his observations were
     made alive with scientific thought."

Afterwards, in England, he received the Royal Medal of the Royal Society for this memoir on
Medusæ, sharing this supreme distinction of scientific England with men so illustrious as Joule,
the discoverer of the relation between force and heat, Stokes, the great investigator of optical
physics, and Humboldt, the traveller, all of whom received medals in the same year. In making
the presentation to Huxley, the Earl of Rosse, then President of the Royal Society, declared:

     "In those papers you have for the first time fully developed
     their structure (that of the Medusæ), and laid the foundation of
     a rational theory for their classification. In your second paper,
     on the anatomy of Salpa and Pyrosoma, the phenomena have received
     the most ingenious and elaborate elucidations, and have given
     rise to a process of reasoning, the results of which can scarcely
     yet be anticipated, but must bear in a very important degree upon
     some of the most abstruse points of what may be called
     transcendental physiology."

Many reasons make it difficult for us to realise, now, the singular novelty and importance
of Huxley's memoir on the Medusæ. The first is a reason which often prevents great discoveries
in almost every subject from receiving in after years their due respect. The years that have
passed since 1850 have seen not only the most amazing progress in our knowledge of comparative
anatomy, but almost a revolution in the methods of studying it. Huxley's work has been incorporated
in the very body of science. A large number of later investigators have advanced upon the lines
he laid down; and just as the superstructures of a great building conceal the foundations,
so later anatomical work, although it has only amplified and extended Huxley's discoveries,
has made them seem less striking to the modern reader. The present writer, for instance, learned
all that he knows of anatomy in the last ten years, and until he turned to it for the purpose
of this volume he had never referred to Huxley's original paper. When he did so, he found from
beginning to end nothing that was new to him, nothing that was strange: all the ideas in the
memoir had passed into the currency of knowledge and he had been taught them as fundamental
facts. It was only when he turned to the text-books of anatomy and natural history current
in Huxley's time that he was able to realise how the conclusions of the young ship-surgeon
struck the Fellows and President of the Royal Society as luminous and revolutionary ideas.

In the first half of the century, a conception of the animal kingdom prevailed which was entirely
different from our modern ideas. We know now that all animals are bound together by the bond
of a common descent, and we seek in anatomy a clue to the degrees of relationship existing
among the different animals we know. We regard the animal kingdom as a thicket of branches
all springing from a common root. Some of these spring straight up from the common root unconnected
with their fellows. Others branch repeatedly, and all the branches of the same stem have features
in common. What we see in the living world is only the surface of the thicket, the tops of
the twigs; and it is by examination of the structure of this surface that we reconstruct in
imagination the whole system of branches, and know that certain twigs, from their likeness,
meet each other a little way down; that others are connected only very deep down, and that
others, again, spring free almost from the beginning. The fossils of beds of rock of different
geological ages give us incomplete views of the surface of the thicket of life, as it was in
earlier times. These views we have of the past aspects of the animal kingdom are always much
more incomplete than our knowledge of the existing aspect; partly because many animals, from
the softness of their bodies, have left either no fossil remains at all, or only very imperfect
casts of the external surfaces of their bodies; and partly because the turning of any animal
into a fossil, and its subsequent discovery by a geologist, are occasional accidents; but,
although the evidence is much less perfect than we could wish, there is enough of it to convince
anatomists that existing animals are all in definite blood-relationship to each other, and
to make them, in the investigation of any new animal, study its anatomy with the definite view
of finding out its place in the family tree of the living world.

When Huxley made his first discoveries, entirely different ideas prevailed. The animal kingdom
was supposed to offer a series of types, of moulds, into which the Creator at the beginning
of the world had cast the substance of life. These types were independent of each other, and
had been so since the beginning of things. Anatomists were concerned chiefly with systematic
work, with detecting and recording the slight differences that existed among the numbers of
animals grouped around each type. No attempt was made to see connection between type and type,
for where these had been separately created there was nothing to connect them except possibly
some idea in the mind of the Creator. This apparently barren attitude to nature was stronger
in men's minds because it had inspired the colossal achievements of Cuvier, a genius who, under
whatever misconceptions he had worked, would have added greatly to knowledge. As we have seen
in the first chapter, Huxley, through Wharton Jones, and through his own reading, had been
brought under the more modern German thought of Johannes Mueller and Von Baer. He had learned
to study the problems of living nature in the spirit of a physicist making investigations into
dead nature. In the anatomy of animals, as in the structure of rocks and crystals, there were
to be sought out "laws of growth" and shaping and moulding influences which accounted for the
form of the structures. To use the technical term, he was a morphologist: one who studied the
architecture of animals not merely in a spirit of admiring wonder, but with the definite idea
of finding out the guiding principles which had determined these shapes.

Not only was the prevailing method of investigation faulty, but actual knowledge of a large
part of the animal kingdom was extremely limited. In the minds of most zoölogists the animal
kingdom was divided into two great groups: the vertebrates and invertebrates. The vertebrate,
or back-boned, animals were well known; comparatively speaking they are all built upon the
type of man; and human anatomists, who indeed made up the greater number of all anatomists,
using their exact knowledge of the human body, had studied many other vertebrates with minute
care, and, from man to fishes, had arranged living vertebrates very much in the modern order.
But the invertebrates were a vague and ill-assorted heap of animals. It was not recognised
that among them there were many series of different grades of ascending complexity, and there
was no well-known form to serve as a standard of comparison for all the others in the fashion
that the body of man served as a standard of comparison for all vertebrates. Here and there,
a few salient types such as insects and snails had been picked out, but knowledge of them helped
but little with a great many of the invertebrates. The great Linnæus had divided the animal
kingdom into four groups of vertebrates: mammals, birds, reptiles, and fishes, but for the
invertebrates he had done no more than to pick out the insects as one group and to call everything
else "Vermes" or worms. The insects included all creatures possessed of an external skeleton
or hard skin divided into jointed segments, and included forms so different as insects, spiders,
crabs, and lobsters. But Vermes included all the members of the animal kingdom that were neither
vertebrates nor insects. Cuvier advanced a little. He got rid of the comprehensive title Vermes--the
label of the rubbish-heap of zoölogists. He divided animals into four great subkingdoms: Vertebrates,
Mollusca, Articulata, Radiata. These names, however, only covered very superficial resemblances
among the animals designated by them. The word Mollusca only meant that the creatures grouped
together had soft bodies, unsupported by internal or external articulated skeletons; and this
character, or, rather, absence of character, was applied alike to many totally dissimilar creatures.
The term Articulata included not only Linnæus's insects but a number of soft-skinned, apparently
jointed, worm-like animals such as the leech and earthworm. Lastly, the name Radiata meant
no more than that the organs of the creatures so designated were more or less disposed around
a centre, as the sepals and petals of a flower are grouped around the central pistil; and it
included animals so different as the starfish and sea-anemones and Medusæ. The names used in
the classification were not only loosely applied but were based on the most superficial observation,
and took no account of the intimate structures of the tissues and organs of the animals. With
slight modifications, due to individual taste or special knowledge of small groups, later writers
had followed Linnæus and Cuvier.

It was with a view of the animal kingdom not much clearer than this that Huxley began his work
on the Medusæ of the tropic seas. He began to study them no doubt simply because they were
among the most abundant of the animals that could be obtained from the ship. He made endless
dissections and drawings, and, above all, studied their minute anatomy with the microscope.
They were all placed among Cuvier's Radiata, but, as Huxley said in the first line of his memoir:

     "Perhaps no class of animals has been investigated with so little
     satisfactory and comprehensive result, and this not for the want
     of patience and ability on the part of the observers, but rather
     because they have contented themselves with stating matters of
     detail concerning particular genera and species, instead of
     giving broad and general views of the whole class, considered as
     organised upon a given type, and inquiring into its relations
     with other families."

He found that fully developed Medusæ consisted each of a disc with tentacles and vesicular
bodies at the margins, a stomach, and canals proceeding from it, and generative organs. He
traced this simple common structure through the complications and modifications in which it
appeared in the different groups of Medusæ, in all this work bringing out the prevailing features
of the anatomy in contrast to the individual peculiarities. He shewed that microscopically
all the complicated systems of canals and organs were composed of two "foundation-membranes,"
two thin webs of cells, one of which formed the outermost layer of the body, while the inner
formed the lining of the stomach and canals in the thinner parts of the body, such as the edges
of the umbrella-like disc, and towards the ends of the tentacles. These thin webs formed practically
all the body. In the thicker parts there was interposed between them an almost structureless
layer of jelly, placed like padding between the lining and the cloth of a coat. He shewed that
blood-vessels and blood were absent, in which he has been confirmed by all other observers.
He declared more doubtfully against the existence of a special nervous system, and it was not
until long after, when the methods of microscopic investigation were much more perfect, that
the delicate nerve-cells and nerve-fibres, which we now know to exist, were discovered.

Having thus shewn the peculiar organisation of the group he turned to seek out its allies among
other families. The Medusæ consisted essentially of two membranes inclosing a variously shaped
cavity inasmuch as all its organs were so composed. The generative organs were external, being
variously developed processes of the two membranes. The peculiar organs called thread-cells--poisoned
darts by the discharge of which prey could be paralysed--were universally present. What other
families presented these peculiarities?

There are to be found abundantly in sea-water, and less frequently in fresh water, innumerable
forms of animal life called Zoöphytes or animal plants because they occur as encrusting masses
like lichens, or branched forests like moss, on the surface of stones and shells. A common
habit gave this set of creatures their common name; but, although they were grouped together,
there was no greater affinity among them than there is racial affinity among people who clothe
themselves for an evening party in the same conventional dress. Huxley examined a large number
of these, and picked out from them two great families of polyps, the Hydroid and Sertularian
polyps, which each consist of colonies of creatures very much like the little fresh-water hydra.
He shewed that the tubular body of these and the ring of tentacles surrounding the mouth were
composed of the same two foundation-membranes of which all the organs of Medusæ are composed.
He found in them the poisoned arrows or thread-cells of the Medusæ, and the same external position
of the reproductive organs. And, lastly, he separated from all other creatures, and associated
with his new group, some of the strangest and most beautiful animals of the tropic seas, known
to science as the Physophoridæ and the Diphyidæ. The best-known of these is the "Portuguese
man-of-war," the body of which consists of a large pear-shaped vesicle which floats on the
water like a bladder. From the lower part of this depend into the water large and small nutritive
branches, each ending in a mouth surrounded by a circle of waving tentacles armed with batteries
of thread-cells, while another set of hanging protrusions bear the grape-like reproductive
organs. On the upper surface of the bladder is fixed a purple sail of the most brilliant colour,
by which the floating creature is blown through the water. When the weather is rough, the bladder
empties, and the creature sinks down into the quiet water below the waves, to rise again when
the storm is over. This, and its equally wonderful allies, Huxley showed to be a complicated
colony of hydra-like creatures, each part being composed of two membranes, and therefore essentially
similar to Medusæ. Thus, by a great piece of constructive work, an assemblage of animals was
gathered into a new group and shewn to be organised upon one simple and uniform plan, and,
even in the most complex and aberrant forms, reducible to the same type. The group, and Huxley's
conception of its structure, are now absolutely accepted by anatomists, and have made one of
the corner-stones of our modern idea of the arrangement of the animal kingdom. With the exception
of sponges, concerning the exact relations of which there is still dispute, and of a few sets
of parasitic and possibly degenerate creatures, all animals, the bodies of which are multicellular,
from the simple fresh-water hydra up to man, are divided into two great groups. The structure
of the simpler of these groups is exactly what Huxley found to be of importance in the Medusæ.
The body wall, from which all the organs protrude, consists merely of a web of cells arranged
in two sheets or membranes, and the single cavity consists of a central stomach, surrounded
by these membranes, the cavity remaining simple or giving rise to a number of branching canals.
The members of this great division of the animal kingdom are the creatures which Huxley selected
and placed together, with the addition of the sea-anemones and the medusa-like Ctenophora,
which, indeed, he mentioned in his memoir as being related to the others, but reserved fuller
consideration for a future occasion. This group is now called the Cœlenterata, the name implying
that the creatures are simply hollow stomachs, and it is contrasted in the strongest way with
the group Cœlomata, in which are placed all the higher animals, from the simplest worm up to
man; animals in which, in addition to the two foundation-membranes of the Cœlenterata, there
is a third foundation-membrane, and in which, in addition to the simple stomach cavity with
its offshoots, there is a true body-cavity or cœlome, and usually a set of spaces and channels
containing a blood-fluid. The older method of naming groups of animals after some obvious superficial
character lingered on for some years in text-books and treatises, but in this memoir the young
ship-surgeon had replaced it by the modern scientific method of grouping animals together only
because of real identity of structure.

There is yet left to be noticed perhaps the most wonderful of all the ideas in this first memoir
by Huxley. In the course of describing the two foundation membranes of the Medusæ he remarks:

     "It is curious to remark, that throughout, the outer and inner
     membranes appear to bear the same physiological relation to one
     another as do the serous and mucous layers of the germ: the outer
     becoming developed into the muscular system, and giving rise to
     the organs of offence and defence: the inner on the other hand
     appearing to be more closely subservient to the purposes of
     nutrition and generation."

In the whole range of science it would be difficult to select an utterance more prophetic of
future knowledge than these few words. Huxley had been reading the investigations of Von Baer
into the early development of back-boned animals. He had learned from them the great generalisation,
that the younger stages of these animals resemble one another more closely than the adult stages,
and that in an early stage in the development of all these animals the beginning of the embryo
consists of two layers of cells, in fact of two foundation-membranes, one forming specially
the wall of the future digestive canal, the other forming the most external portion of the
future animal. In these days nothing could have seemed a remoter or more unlikely comparison
than one instituted between Medusæ and the embryonic stages of back-boned animals. But Huxley
made it, not allowing the evidence brought before his reason to be swamped by preconceived
ideas. At the time he did no more than to make the comparison. It was much later that the full
importance of it became known, when more extended work on the embryology of vertebrates and
of the different groups of the invertebrates had made it plain that the two foundation-membranes
of Huxley occur in all animals from the Medusæ up to man. In the group of Cœlenterata the organisation
remains throughout life as nothing more than a folding in and folding out of these membranes.
The early stages of all the higher animals similarly consist of complications of the two membranes;
but later on there is added to them a third membrane. Thus the group that Huxley gathered together
comprises those animals that as adults remain in a condition of development which is passed
through in the embryonic life of all higher animals. The immense importance of this conclusion
becomes plain, and the conclusion itself seems obvious, when seen in the light of the doctrine
of descent. The group of Cœlenterata represents a surviving, older condition in the evolution
of animals. Huxley himself, when on the Rattlesnake, regarded evolution only as a vague metaphysical
dream, and he made the comparison which has been described without any afterthought of what
it implied. In this we have the earliest authentic instance of the peculiar integrity of mind
which was so characteristic of him in his dealings with philosophy and tradition. He never
allowed any weight of authority or any apparent disturbance of existing ideas to alter the
conclusions to which his reason led him. This intellectual courage made him fitted to be the
leader in the battle for evolution and against traditional thought, and we shall find again
and again in consideration of his work that it was the keynote of his life.

The Rattlesnake was paid off at Chatham on November 9, 1850. In the natural course of events
Huxley would have been appointed before long to active service upon another ship. But he had
no intention of relapsing into the position of a mere navy doctor; he had accumulated sufficient
scientific material to keep him employed on scientific investigation for years, and so he applied
to the Admiralty to "be borne on the books" of H.M.S. Fisgard at Woolwich,--that is to say,
to be appointed assistant-surgeon to the ship "for particular service," so that he should not
be compelled to live on board, but might remain in town, and, with free access to libraries
and museums, work up the observations he had made on the Rattlesnake into serious and substantial
contributions to science. His request was granted, largely by the aid of his old chief, Sir
W. Burnett, who continued to take the most useful interest in the young man he had originally
nominated to the service. In a letter to him Huxley described the investigations which he desired
to continue as being chiefly those on "the anatomy of certain Gasteropod and Pteropod Mollusca,
of Firola and Atlantis, of Salpa and Pyrosoma, of two new Ascidians, namely, Appendicularia
and Doliolum, of Sagitta and certain Annelids, of the auditory and circulatory organs of certain
transparent Crustacea, and of the Medusæ and Polyps." His request was granted, and for the
next three years Huxley lived in London with his brother, on the exiguous income of an assistant-surgeon,
and devoted himself to research. He became almost at once of the first rank among English anatomists.
The result of the paper on Medusæ in the Transactions of the Royal Society was that he was
elected a Fellow of the Society on June 5, 1851, and a year later received a Royal Medal of
the Society. He made many warm friendships both among the older and the younger generations
of scientific men. In his obituary notice of Huxley, Sir Michael Foster wrote:

     "By Edward Forbes, in whose nature there was much that was akin
     to his own, and with whom he had some acquaintance before his
     voyage, he was at once greeted as a comrade, and with Joseph
     Dalton Hooker, to whom he was drawn at the very first by their
     common experience as navy surgeons, he began an attachment which,
     strengthened by like biological aspirations, grew closer as their
     lives went on. In the first year after his return, in the autumn
     of 1851, he made the acquaintance of John Tyndall at the meeting
     of the British Association at Ipswich, and the three, Hooker,
     Huxley, and Tyndall, finding how much in common were all their
     scientific views and desires, formed then and there a triple
     scientific alliance."

Repeated efforts were made by these three, and by more influential friends, to induce the Admiralty
to contribute to the expense of publishing Huxley's scientific results, as they had given a
pledge to encourage officers who had done scientific work. This light phrase conceals a courageous
and momentous decision. He was absolutely without private resources, and having abandoned his
professional work he had no salary of any kind. For a year or so he supported himself by writing
reviews and popular scientific articles, striving all the time not only to gain his bread but
to continue his scientific work and make it known to the public. He desired to get a professorship
of physiology or of comparative anatomy, and as vacancies occurred he applied, but unsuccessfully.

In these early years in London Huxley's work was most varied. A large number of anonymous articles
by him appeared in the Literary Gazette, and in other periodicals. He assisted to remove the
insular narrowness from English scientific work by translating many foreign memoirs. With the
collaboration of Mr. Henfrey, he edited a series of scientific memoirs, all of which were translated
from foreign languages, and many by his own pen. With the assistance of Mr. George Busk he
made a translation of Kölliker's Histology, a great treatise on microscopic anatomy which played
a large part in the development of the modern English schools of anatomy and physiology. He
made some valuable contributions to Todd and Bowman's Cyclopædia of Anatomy, an elaborate publication
now nearly forgotten and practically superseded, but which was the standard anatomical work
of the middle of this century. He was unable to progress rapidly with his work upon oceanic
Medusæ, as he was uncertain how to have it published; the Admiralty refused to assist, and
it was too lengthy for publication in the volumes of the learned Societies. As a matter of
fact, he did not publish it until 1858, when it appeared as a separate memoir. To the Quarterly
Journal of Microscopical Science and to the Transactions of the Royal and Linnæan Societies
he contributed a large number of memoirs dealing with the microscopic anatomy and relationships
of invertebrates, and, lastly, he gave a series of addresses at the Royal Institution, which
had been founded as a means by which leading men of science might give accounts of their work
to London society. Abstracts of these lectures are published in the early volumes of the Proceedings
of the Royal Institution and are interesting as shewing the kinds of zoölogical subjects which
were attracting the attention of Huxley and which he considered of sufficient interest and
importance to bring to the notice of the general public. The first of these lectures, and probably
the first given in public by Huxley, occurred on April 30, 1852, and was entitled "Animal Individuality."
The problem as to what is meant by an individual had been raised in his mind by consideration
of many of the forms of marine life, notably compound structures like the Portuguese man-of-war,
and creatures like the salps, which form floating chains often many yards in length. He explained
that the word individual covers at least three quite different kinds of conceptions. There
is, first, what he described as arbitrary individuality, an individuality which is given by
the mind of the observer and does not actually exist in the thing considered. Thus a landscape
is in a sense an individual thing, but only so far as it is a particular part of the surface
of the earth, isolated for the time in the mind of the person looking at it. If the observer
shift his position, the range of the landscape alters and becomes something else. Next there
are material, or practically accidental individual things, such as crystals or pieces of stone;
and, lastly, there are living individuals which, as he pointed out, were cycles. All living
things are born into the world, grow up, and die, and it was to the cycle of life, from the
egg to the adult which produces eggs, that he gave the name individual. In a simple animal
like Hydra there is no difficulty in accepting this plain definition of individuality; but
Huxley went on to compare with Hydra a compound creature like the Portuguese man-of-war, which
really is composed of a colony of Hydra-like creatures, the different members of the colony
being more or less altered to serve different functions. All these have come from the branching
of a single simple creature produced from an egg, and to the whole colony Huxley gave the name
of zoölogical individual. The salps give a still wider interpretation to this view of individuality.
The original salp produced from the egg gives rise to many salps, which may either remain attached
in a chain, or, breaking away from one another, may live separately. Huxley extended the use
of the word individual so as to include as a single zoölogical individual the whole set of
creatures cohering in chains or breaking apart, which had been produced by budding from the
product of a single egg-cell. This subtle analysis of ideas delighted and interested his contemporaries,
and the train of logical examination of what is meant by individuality has persisted to the
present time. Like all other zoölogical ideas, this has been considerably altered by the conception
of evolution. Zoölogists no longer attempt to stretch logical conceptions until they fit enormous
and different parts of the living world. They recognise that the living world, because it is
alive, is constantly changing, and that living things pass through different stages or kinds
of individuality in the course of their lives. A single egg-cell is one kind, perhaps the simplest
kind, of zoölogical individual; when it has grown up into a simple polyp it has passed into
a second grade of individuality; when, by budding, the polyp has become branched, a third grade
is reached, and when the branches have become different, in obedience to the different purposes
which they are to serve in the whole compound creature, a still further grade is reached. Huxley's
attempt to find a meaning for individuality that would apply equally to a single simple creature,
to a compound creature, and to the large number of separate creatures, all developed by budding
from one creature, is a striking instance of his singular capacity for bringing apparently
dissimilar facts into harmony, by finding out the common underlying principle, and, although
we no longer accept this particular conclusion, we cannot fail to notice in it the peculiar
powers of his mind.

A second and even more interesting Royal Institution lecture dealt with the "Identity of Structure
in Animals and Plants." At the present time every educated person knows that the life of animals
and plants alike depends on the fact that their bodies are composed of a living material called
protoplasm, a material which is identical in every important respect in both kingdoms of the
living world. In the early fifties, scientific opinion was by no means clear on this matter,
and certainly public opinion was most vague. Huxley discussed what was meant by organisation,
and shewed that in every essential respect plants and animals alike were organised beings.
Then he went on to explain the cellular theory of Schwann, which was then a novelty to a general
audience. Schwann, in studying the microscopic structure of plants, noticed that their bodies
were made up of little cases with firm walls; these he called cells, and declared that the
whole body of the plant was composed of cells. As the walls of these cells were the most obvious
and visible feature, it was supposed that they were the most essential part of the structure,
and there was some difficulty in applying the cellular theory to the bodies of animals, as
in most cases there are no easily visible cell-walls in animal tissues. As the result of his
own observation, and from his reading of the work of others, Huxley laid down in the clearest
way what is now accepted by everyone--that the presence of walls is of minor importance, and
that it is the slimy contents of the cells, what is called "protoplasm," that is the important
element. He declared that the protoplasm of animals was identical with the protoplasm of plants,
and that plants were "animals confined in wooden cases." He agreed with Schwann that the cell,
using the term to imply the contents rather than the wall, was of fundamental importance, and
was the unit of structure of the whole world of life. On the other hand, he declared that it
could not be looked at as the unit of function: he denied that the powers and properties of
a living body were simply the sum of the powers and properties of the single cells. In this
opinion he was not followed by physiologists until quite recently. For many years physiologists
held that cells were units of function just as much as they are units of structure; but in
the last ten years there has been a strong return to the opinion of Huxley.

In 1851 two very important memoirs were published in the Transactions of the Royal Society,
which contained the results of Huxley's observations of the interesting animals known as "tunicates."
The first of these papers begins as follows:

     "The Salpæ, those strange gelatinous animals, through masses of
     which the voyager in the great ocean sometimes sails day after
     day, have been the subject of a great controversy since the time
     of the publication of the celebrated work of Chamisso, De
     Animalibus Quibusdam e Classe Vermium Linnæana. In this work
     there were set forth, for the first time, the singular phenomena
     presented by the reproductive processes of these
     animals,--phenomena so strange, and so utterly unlike anything
     then known to occur in the whole province of zoölogy, that
     Chamisso's admirably clear and truthful account was received with
     almost as much distrust as if he had announced the existence of a
     veritable Peter Schlemihl."

According to Chamisso, salps appeared in two forms: solitary forms, and forms in which a number
of salps are united into a long chain. Each salp of the aggregate form contains within it an
embryo receiving nutrition from the mother by a connection similar to the placenta by which
the embryo of a mammal receives nourishment from the blood of the mother. These embryos grow
up into the solitary form, and the solitary form gives rise to a long chain of the aggregate
form which developes in the interior of the body. Chamisso compared this progress to the development
of insects. "Supposing," he said, "caterpillars did not bodily change into butterflies, but
by a process of sexual breeding produced young which grew into the ordinary adults, and that
these adults, as indeed they do, gave rise to caterpillars by sexual reproduction, then there
would be a true alternation of generations." The first generation would give rise to a second
generation totally unlike itself, and this second generation would reproduce, not its kind,
but the first generation; such an alternation of generations he stated to occur among the salps.
Huxley had an excellent opportunity to study this question at Cape York in November, 1849.
"For a time the sea was absolutely crowded with Salpæ, in all stages of growth, and of size
very convenient for examination." He was able to verify the general truth of Chamisso's statement.
The aggregate form of Salpa always gives rise to the solitary salps, and the solitary salps
always give rise to chains of the aggregate salps. But the process of reproduction he shewed
to be quite different in the two cases. The solitary salp produces in its interior a little
stolon or diverticulum which contains an outgrowth from the circulatory system, and this stolon
gradually becomes pinched off into the members of the chain of the aggregate form. The salps
of the aggregate form are therefore merely buds from the solitary form, and are not produced
in the ordinary way, by sexual generation. On the other hand, each salp of the chain has within
it a true egg-cell. This is fertilised by a male cell, and within the body of the parent, nourished
by the blood of the parent, grows up into the solitary form. There is then an alternation of
generations, but there are not two sexual generations. The sexual generation of chain salps
gives rise to forms which reproduce by buds. From this conclusion, with which all later observers
have agreed, Huxley went on to his theory of individuality. Different names had been given
to the two forms, but Huxley declared that neither form was a true zoölogical individual; they
were only parts of individuals or organs, and the true individual was the complete cycle involving
both forms.

In addition to determining the interesting method of reproduction, Huxley made an elaborate
investigation of the structure of Salpa. On one occasion only the Rattlesnake came across a
quantity of an allied Ascidian, Pyrosoma, which had received its name from its phosphorescence.

     "The sky was clear but moonless, and the sea calm; and a more
     beautiful sight can hardly be imagined than that presented from
     the deck of the ship as she drifted, hour after hour, through
     this shoal of miniature pillars of fire gleaming out of the dark
     sea, with an ever-waning, ever brightening, soft bluish light, as
     far as the eye could reach on every side. The Pyrosomata floated
     deep, and it was only with difficulty that some were procured for
     examination and placed in a bucketful of sea-water. The
     phosphorescence was intermittent, periods of darkness alternating
     with periods of brilliancy. The light commenced in one spot,
     apparently on the surface of one of the zoöids, and gradually
     spread from this as a centre in all directions; then the whole
     was lighted up: it remained brilliant for a few seconds, and then
     gradually faded and died away, until the whole mass was dark
     again. Friction at any point induces the light at that point, and
     from thence the phosphorescence spreads over the whole, while the
     creature is quite freshly taken; afterwards, the illumination
     arising from friction is only local."

Dealing with these creatures in the broad anatomical spirit with which he had studied the Medusæ,
Huxley shewed the typical structure manifested in the different forms, and that was common
to them and the Ascidians or sea-squirts of the seashore. In a second paper on "Appendicularia
and Doliolum" he made further contributions to our knowledge of these interesting creatures.
Appendicularia is a curious little Ascidian, differing from all the others in its possession
of a tail. Earlier observers had obtained it on various parts of the ocean surface, but had
failed entirely to detect its relationship to the ordinary Ascidians. Chamisso got it near
Behring's Straits and thought that it was more nearly allied to "Venus's Girdle," a Cœlenterate.
Mertens, another distinguished zoölogist, had declared that "the relation of this animal with
the Pteropods (a peculiar group of molluscs) is unmistakable"; while Müller, a prince among
German anatomists, confessed that "he did not know in what division of the animal kingdom to
place this creature." Huxley shewed that it possessed all the characteristic features of the
Ascidians, the same arrangement of organs, the same kind of nervous system, a respiratory chamber
formed from the fore part of the alimentary canal, and a peculiar organ running along the pharynx
which Huxley called the endostyle and which is one of the most striking peculiarities of the
whole group. The real nature of the tail was Huxley's most striking discovery. He pointed out
that ordinary Ascidians begin life as tiny tadpole-like creatures which swim freely by the
aid of a long caudal appendage; and that while these better-known Ascidians lose their tails
when they settle down into adult life, the Appendiculariæ are Ascidians which retain this larval
structure throughout life. Von Baer had shown that in the great natural groups of higher animals
some forms occur which typify, in their adult condition, the larval state of the higher forms
of the group. Thus, among the amphibia, frogs have tails in the larval or tadpole condition;
but newts throughout life remain in the larval or tailed condition. Appendicularia he considered
to be the lowest form of the Ascidians, and to typify in its adult condition the larval stages
of the higher Ascidians.

By this remarkable investigation of the structure of the group of Ascidians, and display of
the various grades of organisation, Huxley paved the way for one of the great modern advances
in knowledge. When, later on, the idea of evolution was accepted, and zoölogists began hunting
out the pedigree of the back-boned animals, it was discovered that Ascidians were modern representatives
of an important stage in the ancestry of vertebrate animals, and, therefore, of man himself.
There are few more interesting chapters in genealogical zoölogy than those which reveal the
relationship between Amphioxus and fish on the one hand, and Ascidians on the other; for fish
are vertebrates, and Ascidians, on the old view, are lowly invertebrates. The details of these
relationships have been made known to us by the brilliant investigations of several Germans,
by Kowalevsky, a Russian, by the Englishmen Ray Lankester and Willey, and by several Americans
and Frenchmen. But behind the work of all these lies the pioneer work of Huxley, who first
gathered the group of Ascidians together, and in a series of masterly investigations described
its typical structure.

Huxley's next great piece of work was embodied in a memoir published in the Transactions of
the Royal Society in 1853, and which remains to the present day a model of luminous description
and far-reaching ideas. It was a treatise on the structure of the great group of molluscs,
and displays in a striking fashion his method of handling anatomical facts, and deducing from
them the great underlying principles of construction. The shell-fish with which he dealt specially
were those distinguished as cephalous, because, unlike creatures such as the oyster and mussel,
they had something readily comparable with the head of vertebrates. He began by pointing out
what problems he hoped to solve. The anatomy of many of the cephalous molluscs was known, but
the relation of structures present in one to structures present in another group had not been
settled.

     "It is not settled whether the back of a cuttle-fish answers to
     the dorsal or ventral surface of a gasteropod. It is not decided
     whether the arms and funnels of the one have or have not their
     homologues in the other. The dorsal integument of a Doris and the
     cloak of a whelk are both called 'mantle,' without any evidence
     to show that they are really homologous. Nor do very much more
     definite notions seem to have prevailed with regard to the
     archetypal molluscous form, and the mode in which (if such an
     archetype exist) it becomes modified in the different secondary
     types."

He had taken from the surface of the sea a number of transparent shell-fish, and had been able
to study the structure and arrangement of their organs "by simple inspection, without so much
as disturbing a single beat of their hearts." From knowledge gained in this fashion, and from
ordinary dissection of a number of common snails, cephalopods, and pteropods, he was able to
describe in a very complete way the anatomical structure of cephalous molluscs. The next natural
step, he stated, would have been to describe the embryonic development of the organs of these
different creatures in order that a true knowledge might be gained of what were the homologous
or really corresponding parts in each. Having had no opportunity to make such embryological
studies for himself, he fell back on numerous accounts of development by Kölliker, Van Beneden,
Gegenbauer, and others, and so gradually arrived at a conception of what he called the "archetype"
of the cephalous molluscs. As the word archetype was borrowed from old metaphysical ideas dating
back to the time of Plato, he took care to state that what he meant by it was no more than
a form embodying all that could be affirmed equally respecting every single kind of cephalous
mollusc, and by no means an "idea" upon which it could be supposed that animal forms had been
modelled. He described this archetype, and showed the condition of the different systems of
organs which it could be supposed to possess, and how these organs were modified in the different
existing groups. This archetypal mollusc of Huxley's was a creature with a bilaterally symmetrical
head and body. On the ventral side of the body it possessed a peculiar locomotor appendage,
the so-called foot, and the dorsal surface of the body secreted a shell. Its nervous system
consisted of three pairs of ganglia or brains, one pair in the head, one in the foot, and a
third in the viscera. He shewed how the widely different groups of cephalous molluscs could
be conceived as modifications of this structure, and extended the conception so as to cover
all other molluscs.

Quite apart from the anatomical value of this paper, and although all technical details have
been omitted here, it is necessary to say that merely as a series of intricate anatomical descriptions
and comparisons, this memoir was one of the most valuable of any that Huxley wrote. The working
out of the theory of the archetype is peculiarly interesting to compare with modern conceptions.
To those of us who began biological work after the idea of evolution had been impressed upon
anatomical work, it is very difficult to follow Huxley's papers without reading into them evolutionary
ideas. In the article upon Mollusca, written for the ninth edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica,
by Professor Ray Lankester, the same device of an archetypal or, as Lankester calls it, a schematic
mollusc, is employed in order to explain the relations of the different structures found in
different groups of molluscs to one another. Lankester's schematic mollusc differs from Huxley's
archetypal mollusc only as a finished modern piece of mechanism, the final result of years
of experiment, differs from the original invention. The method of comparing the schematic mollusc
with the different divergent forms in different groups is identical, and yet, while the ideas
of Darwin are accepted in every line of Lankester's work, Huxley was writing six years before
the publication of The Origin of Species. There was growing up in Huxley's mind, partly from
his own attempts to arrange the anatomical facts he discovered in an intelligible series, the
idea that within a group the divergencies of structure to be found had come about by the modification
of an original type. Not only did he conceive of such an evolution as the only possible explanation
of the facts, but he definitely used the word evolution to convey his ideas. On the other hand,
he was firmly convinced that such evolution was confined within the great groups. For each
group there was a typical structure, and modifications by defect or excess of the parts of
the definite archetype gave rise to the different members of the group. Moreover, he confined
this evolution in the strictest possible way to each group; he did not believe that what was
called anamorphosis--the transition of a lower type into a higher type--ever occurred. To use
his own words:

     "If, however, all Cephalous Mollusca, i.e., all Cephalopoda,
     Gasteropoda, and Lamellibranchiata, be only modifications by
     excess or defect of the parts of a definite archetype, then, I
     think, it follows as a necessary consequence, that no
     anamorphosis takes place in this group. There is no progression
     from a lower to a higher type, but merely a more or less complete
     evolution of one type. It may indeed be a matter of very grave
     consideration whether true anamorphosis ever occurs in the whole
     animal kingdom. If it do, then the doctrine that every natural
     group is organised after a definite archetype, a doctrine which
     seems to me as important for zoölogy as the theory of definite
     proportions for chemistry, must be given up."

It is of great historical interest to notice how closely actual consideration of the facts
of the animal kingdom took zoölogists to an idea of evolution, and yet how far they were from
it as we hold it now. It is fashionable at the present time to attempt to depreciate the immense
change introduced by Darwin into zoölogical speculation, and the method employed is largely
partial quotation, or reference to the kind of ideas found in papers such as this memoir by
Huxley. The comparison between the types of the great groups and the combining proportions
of the chemical elements shows clearly that Huxley regarded the structural plans of the great
groups as properties necessary and inherent in these groups, just as the property of a chemical
element to combine with another chemical substance only in a fixed proportion is necessary
and inherent in the existing conception of it. There was no glimmer of the idea that these
types were not inherent, but merely historical results of a long and slow series of changes
produced by the interaction of the varied conditions of life and the intrinsic qualities of
living material.

In two lectures delivered at the Royal Institution in 1854 and 1855, the one on "The Common
Plan of Animal Forms," the other on "The Zoölogical Arguments Adduced in Favour of the Progressive
Development of Animal Life in Time," show, so far as the published abstracts go, the same condition
of mind. The idea of progressive development of all life from common forms was not unknown
to Huxley and his contemporaries, but was rejected by them. In the first of these two lectures
he took four great groups of animals, the Vertebrates, the Articulata, the Mollusca, and the
Radiata, and explained what was the archetype of each. He shewed the distinctiveness of each
plan of structure, and then discussed the relations of the ideas suggested by Von Baer to these
archetypes. He stated explicitly that while the adult forms were quite unlike one another,
there were traces of a common plan to be derived from a study of their embryonic development.
Such a trace of a common plan he had himself suggested when he compared the foundation-membranes
of the Medusæ with the first foundation-membranes of vertebrate embryos. This was going a long
way towards modern ideas; but he stopped short, and gave no hint that he believed in the possibility
of the development of one plan from a lower or simpler plan. The second lecture dealt with
the kind of ideas which were crystallised in the popular but striking work of Chambers, entitled
Vestiges of Creation. Chambers attacked the theological view that all animals and plants had
been created at the beginning of the world, and maintained that geological evidence showed
the occurrence of a progressive development of animal life. Huxley, like all zoölogists and
geologists who knew anything of the occurrence of fossils in the rocks of past ages, agreed
with the general truth of the conception that a progressive development had occurred which
showed that the species now existing were represented in the oldest rocks by species now extinct.
But the examples he brought forward were all limited to evolution within the great groups,
and did not affect his idea that archetypes were fixed and did not pass into each other. Moreover,
he summed up strongly against the suggestion that there was any parallel between the succession
of life in the past and the forms assumed by modern animals in their embryological development.
So far as the present writer is able to judge from study of the literature of this period,
the possibility of evolution was present in an active form in the minds of Huxley and of his
contemporaries, and in an extraordinary way they brought together evidence which afterwards
became of firstrate importance; but the idea in its modern sense was rejected by them.

In 1854 Huxley's uncomfortable period of probation came to an end.

The salary of the post of Lecturer on Natural History was scanty, but De La Beche, who evidently
recognised Huxley's genius, and was anxious to have him attached even against his will to palæontological
work, created a place for him as Naturalist to the Geological Survey, by which a more suitable
income was found for him. His official duties were at first in the Geological Museum of the
Survey, but were distinguished from those of the special Palæontologist, Mr. Harvey. His income
was now assured, and for the rest of his life, until towards its close, when he retired to
Eastbourne, he lived the ordinary life of a professional man of science in London. He was now
able to marry, and on July 21, 1855, he was married to a lady whom he had met in Sydney in
1847, and whom he had not seen since the Rattlesnake left Sydney finally in the beginning of
May, 1850.

During the years 1856, 1857, and 1858, he held the post of Fullerian Professor of Physiology
in the Royal Institution, choosing as the title of his first two courses of lectures Physiology
and Comparative Anatomy, as he still cherished the idea of being in the first place a physiologist.

     "Moreover," writes Professor Michael Foster, "like most other
     young professional men of science, he had to eke out his not too
     ample income by labours undertaken chiefly for their pecuniary
     reward. He acted as examiner, conducting for instance, during the
     years 1856 to 1863, and again 1865 to 1870, the examinations in
     physiology and comparative anatomy at the University of London,
     making even an examination paper feel the influence of the new
     spirit in biology; and among his examinees at that time there was
     at least one who, knowing Huxley's writings, but his writings
     only, looked forward to the viva voce test, not as a trial but
     as an occasion of delight. He wrote almost incessantly for all
     editors who were prepared to give adequate pay to a pen able to
     deal with scientific themes in a manner at once exact and
     popular, incisive and correct. During this period he was
     gradually passing from his first anatomical love, the structure
     of the Invertebrates, to Vertebrate work, and although he
     continued to take a deep interest in the course of the progress
     of research in that group of animals, the publication of his
     great work on oceanic hydrozoa by the Ray Society was the last
     piece of important work he wrote upon any anatomical subject
     apart from vertebrates. His work in connection with the
     Geological Survey naturally attracted his attention most closely
     to vertebrates, and, towards the close of the fifties, he was led
     to make a special study of vertebrate embryology, a subject which
     the investigations of Kölliker and others in Germany were
     bringing into prominence. The first result of this new direction
     of his enquiries was embodied in a Croonian Lecture delivered in
     1858 'On the Theory of the Vertebrate Skull.' Sir Richard Owen,
     who was at that time the leading vertebrate anatomist in England,
     had given his support to an extremely complicated view of the
     skull as being formed of a series of expanded vertebræ moulded
     together. The theory was really a legacy from an old German
     school of which the chief members were Goethe, the poet, and
     Oken, a naturalist, who was more of a metaphysical philosopher
     than of a morphologist. Huxley pointed out the futility of
     attempting to regard the skull as a series of segments, and of
     supporting this view by trusting to superficial resemblances and
     abstract reasoning, when there was a definite method by which the
     actual building up of the skull might be followed. Following the
     lines laid down by Rathke, another of the great Germans from
     whose investigations he was always so willing to find
     corroboration and assistance in his own labours, he traced the
     actual development of the skull in the individual. He shewed
     that the foundations of the skull and of the backbone were laid
     down in a fashion quite different, and that it was impossible to
     regard both skull and backbone as modifications of a common type
     laid down right along the axis of the body. The spinal column and
     the skull start from the same primitive condition, whence they
     immediately begin to diverge. It may be true to say that there is
     a primitive identity of structure between the spinal or vertebral
     column and the skull; but it is no more true that the adult skull
     is a modified vertebral column than it would be to affirm that
     the vertebral column is a modified skull."

Since this famous lecture, a number of distinguished anatomists have studied the development
of the skull more fully; but they have not departed from the methods of investigation laid
down by Huxley, and their conclusions have differed only in greater elaboration of detail from
the broad lines laid down by him. Apart from its direct scientific value, this lecture was
of importance as marking the place to which Huxley had attained in the scientific world. Two
years later, it is true, the London Times, referring to a famous debate at a meeting of the
British Association at Oxford, spoke of him as "a Mr. Huxley"; but in the scientific world
he was accepted as the leader of the younger anatomists, and as one at least capable of rivalling
Owen, who was then at the height of his fame. The Croonian Lecture was in a sense a deliberate
challenge to Owen, and in these days before Darwin, to challenge Owen was to claim equality
with the greatest name in anatomical science.

Although Huxley took a post connected with Geology only because it was the most convenient
opening for him, it was not long before he became deeply interested not only in the fossils,
which at first he despised, but in the general problems of geology. He began by co-operation
with Mr. Salter in the determination of fossils for the Geological Survey. The mere work of
defining genera and species and naming and describing new species appealed very little to him.
He had none of the collector's passion for new species; his interest in a creature being not
whether or no it was new to science, but what general problems of biology its structure helped
to elucidate. While he assisted in the routine work of determining the zoölogical position
of the fossils sent in to the museum by the Survey, he carried investigations much farther
than the duties of the post required when interesting zoölogical problems arose. His earliest
notes were written in association with his colleague, and consisted of technical descriptions
of some small fossils from the Downton Sandstones which were supposed to be fish-shields. The
peculiarities of structure presented by these aroused his interest, and he began an elaborate
series of investigations upon palæozoic fishes in general. Earlier zoölogists, such as the
great Agassiz, had devoted most of their attention to careful and exact description of the
different fossil fishes with which they became acquainted. Huxley at once began to investigate
the relations that existed among the different kinds of structure exhibited in the different
fish. He laid down the lines upon which future work has been conducted, and, precisely as he
did in the case of molluscs, he started future investigators upon lines of research the ends
of which have not yet been reached. His work upon Devonian Fishes, published in 1861, threw
an entirely new light upon the affinities of these creatures, and still remains a standard work.

He made a similar, although less important, series of investigations upon some of the great
extinct Crustacea; but, perhaps, his most important palæontological work was done later, after
he had been convinced by Darwin of the fact of evolution. In 1855 he had expressed the opinion
that the study of fossils was hopeless if one sought in it confirmation of the doctrine of
evolution; but five-and-twenty years' continuous work completely reversed his opinion, and
in 1881, addressing the British Association at York he declared that "if zoölogists and embryologists
had not put forward the theory, it would have been necessary for palæontologists to invent
it." In three special groups of animals his study of fossils enabled him to assist in bridging
over the gaps between surviving groups of creatures by study of creatures long extinct. He
began to study the structure of the Labyrinthodonts, a group of extinct monsters which received
their name from the peculiar structure of their teeth. He published elaborate descriptions
of Anthracosaurus from the coal-measures of Northumberland, of Loxomma from the lower carboniferous
of Scotland, and of several small forms from the coal-measures of Kilkenny, in Ireland, as
well as describing skulls from Africa and a number of fragmentary bones from different localities.
But in all this work it was the morphology of the creatures that interested him, and the light
which their structure threw upon the structure of each other and of their nearest allies. He
shewed that these monsters stood on the borderland between fishes, amphibia, and reptiles,
and he added much to our knowledge of the true structure of these great groups. Next, he turned
to the extinct reptiles of the Mesozoic age. It was generally believed that the Pterodactyls,
or flying reptiles, were the nearest allies of birds, but Huxley insisted that the resemblances
between the wings were simply such superficial resemblances as necessarily exist in organs
adapted to the same purpose. About the same time, Cope in America, and Phillips and Huxley,
in England, from study of the bones of the Dinosaurs, another great group of extinct reptiles,
declared that these were the nearest in structure to birds. In association with the upright
posture, the ilium or great haunch-bone of birds extends far forwards in front of the articulation
of the thigh-bone, so that the pelvis in this region has a T-shape, the ilium forming the cross-bar
of the T, and the femur or thigh-bone the downward limb. Huxley shewed that a large number
of the Dinosaurs had this and other peculiarities of the bird's pelvis, and separated these
into a group which he called the "Ornithoscelida," seeing in them the closest representatives
of the probable reptilian ancestors of birds. While further work and the discovery of a still
greater number of extinct reptiles has made it less probable that these were the actual ancestors
of birds, Huxley's work in this, as in the many other cases we have shown, proved not only
of great value in itself, but led to a continually increasing series of investigations by others.
It is not always the pioneer that makes the greatest discoveries in a new country, but the
work of the pioneer makes possible and easier the more assured discoveries of his followers.

A third great piece of palæontological investigation with which the
name of Huxley will always be associated, is the most familiar of all
the instances taken from fossils in support of the evolution of
animals. This famous case is the pedigree of the horse. In 1870, in an
address delivered to the Geological Society of London, Huxley had
shewn that there was a series of animals leading backwards from the
modern horse to a more generalised creature called Anchitherium, and
found in the rocks of the Miocene period. He suggested that there
were, no doubt, similar fossils leading still further backwards
towards the common mammalian type of animal, with five fingers and
five toes, and went the length of suggesting one or two fossils which
might stand in the direct line of ancestry. But in 1876 he visited
America, and had the opportunity of consulting the marvellous series
of fossils which Professor Marsh had collected from American Tertiary
beds. Professor Marsh allowed him the freest use of his materials and
of his conclusions, and the credit of the final result is to be
shared at least equally between Marsh and Huxley. The final result was
a demonstrative proof of the possible course of evolution of the
horse, given in a lecture delivered by Huxley in New York on Sept. 22,
1876, and illustrated by drawings from specimens in Marsh's
collection. The matter of the lecture has become so important a part
of all descriptive writing on evolution, and the treatment is so
characteristic of Huxley's brilliant exposition, that it is worth
while to make some rather long quotations from it. The lecture was
published in the New York papers, and afterwards with other matter
formed a volume of American Addresses, published by Macmillan, in
London. The
     researches of Leidy and others have shewn that forms allied to
     the Hipparion and the Anchitherium are to be found among
     these remains.

Just as Huxley was successful, when only the ancestry to Miocene times was known, in predicting
the discovery of older forms in the older Miocene and upper Eocene, so his prediction of older
Eocene forms carrying the chain back to five-toed creatures proved correct. One of the new
links was indeed discovered before his lecture had passed through the press, and he was able
to add in a footnote some details of the structure of the four-toed Eohippus from the lower
Eocene beds. Further discoveries have connected these with the five-toed ancestors of the Tapirs,
and there is the strongest reason to suppose that we now know as nearly as possible the line
of ancestry of the horse back to the primitive forms common to all the higher mammals. It would,
of course, be beyond possibility of proof that the exact fossils described were the actual
ancestors of the horse; but that they are exceedingly close allies of these, and that among
them some actual ancestors exist cannot reasonably be doubted.

Although he had embarked upon geological work with some distaste, Huxley became very closely
associated with it as years went on, and indeed, about the seventies, had abandoned his intention
to devote himself specially to physiology, and declared himself to be in the first place a
palæontologist. In 1876 he had accomplished so much that the Geological Society gave him its
chief distinction, awarding him the Wollaston Medal in recognition of his services to geological
science. He acted as Secretary to the Geological Society from 1859 to 1862, and he was President
from 1868 to 1870. In 1862, the President being incapacitated, Huxley delivered as Deputy-President
the Presidential Address. This address is famous in the history of geology, because for the
first time it stated clearly and in permanent form a doctrine now taken as a first principle
in all geological text-books. A large part of geology is the attempt to read the past history
of the earth from the evidence given by the successive strata of rocks that form its crust.

It is of the utmost importance to determine whether or no the same series occurring vertically
in the same order in different parts of the earth were deposited at the same time.

Most of the standard writers on palæontology had assumed that the presence in two beds at different
parts of the world of the same fossils implied that the beds were contemporaneous, that they
had been formed at the same time. Huxley pointed out that the fact of identical fossils being
present was, on the whole, evidence against the beds having been formed at the same time. Even
some of the older writers who believed in species having been created at definite places at
definite times had seen that time must have been required for sets of animals to wander from
the places in which they had come into existence. The newer theory of evolution was equally
opposed to the notion of the appearance of similar animals at the same time on far-distant
parts of the earth. For such reasons he proposed to reject the use of the word Contemporaneous
as applied to rockbeds in different localities which contained the same fossils, and to replace
it by the word Homotaxial, which meant no more than that the beds occupied corresponding places
in the geological history of the earth. Huxley did not pretend that these arguments were entirely
original: they represented the drift of the best geological opinion, and he seized hold of
them and set them down as permanent geological truths.

In 1869, in a Presidential Address to the Geological Society, Huxley took up one of the burning
questions of the day. In the early part of the century, the discoveries of geologists had been
the occasion of great distress to those good people who clung to a literal interpretation of
everything in the Bible. Long before the doctrine of evolution and the descent of man from
lower animals had taken practical shape, there had been a battle royal between geologists who
declared that the earth was many million years old, and had been inhabited at least by animals
and plants for enormous periods, and those who clung to the traditional chronology which placed
the date of creation only a few thousand years from now. The continued progress of geology,
and the sturdy championship of it by men like Sedgwick, Chalmers, and Buckland, who were at
the same time reputable theologians and distinguished men of science, had decided the battle
in favour of the conclusions of science, and it was accepted generally that the earth was almost
indefinitely old. At the same time, another and more strictly scientific dispute had been in
progress. The older school of geologists, looking on the face of the world, and seeing it scarred
by mighty fissures, displaying huge distortions of the beds in the crust, had argued that geological
change had taken place by a series of mighty catastrophes. The tremendous results which they
saw seemed to them only possible on the theory that unusual and gigantic displays of force
had caused them. On the other hand, Hutton and Lyell attempted to find adequate explanation
of the greatest changes in the slow forces which may be seen in operation at the present time.
Slow movements of upheaval and depression, amounting at most to an inch or two in a century,
may be shown to be actually in existence now, and such slow changes acting for very many centuries
would account for the raising of continents above the sea, so that old sea-bottoms became the
surface of the land, and for the depression of land areas so that new sedimentary rocks might
be deposited upon them. They shewed how air and water slowly crumbled away the hardest rocks,
and how rivers deepened their beds steadily but excessively slowly; and they held that while
great catastrophic changes might occasionally have occurred, there was ample evidence of the
present operation of forces which, granted sufficient time for their operation, would have
made the crust of the earth such as it is. This doctrine of Uniformitarianism, of the action
of similar forces in the past and present history of the earth, had almost completely triumphed
over the older catastrophic views. As Huxley put it, the school of catastrophe put no limit
to the violence of forces which had operated; the uniformitarians put no limit to the length
of time during which forces had operated.

Huxley then proceeded to shew that uniformitarianism and catastrophism had neglected this last
and most important branch of geology, the attempt to trace the interaction of causes which
had brought the world into its present condition. Next he declared that evolution embraced
all that was sound in both catastrophism and uniformitarianism while rejecting the arbitrary
limits and assumptions of both.

Finally he came to the great question to which these observations upon the existing schools
of geology had led. The most distinguished physicist of the age, then Sir William Thomson,
now Lord Kelvin, and Huxley's immediate successor in the Presidential Chair of the Royal Society,
had stated that the English school of geology had assumed an impossible age for the earth.
This pronouncement had been received with acclamation by those who feared the geological and
biological sciences, as a sign of internal dissensions within the house of science. Huxley,
then, as all through the latter part of his life, at once constituted himself the champion
of science, and, taking Thomson's arguments one by one, shewed by a series of masterly deductions
from known facts that there was a great deal to be said for the other side, and that physicists
were as little certain as geologists could be of the exact duration of time that had elapsed
since the dawn of life. His plea for more time since the cooling of the globe than physicists
were willing to allow remains one of the classics of geological literature. But he carried
the question much farther. The inference which was widely drawn by the enemies of evolution
from the arguments of Sir William Thomson was that if geologists had overestimated the age
of the cooled earth there was not time for the evolution of animals and plants to have taken
place. Huxley pointed out a fact which should be quite obvious, but which even yet is frequently
neglected. The evidence for the gradual appearance of life in the past history of the earth
depends simply on the fact that the successive forms of life appear in successive strata, and
the length of time taken for these changes simply depends upon the length of time which was
taken up by the formation of the strata. Our only reason for supposing the evolution of life,
made plain by fossil records, to have taken place very slowly is that geologists have stated
that the deposition of the strata took place very slowly. Whether these strata were deposited
slowly or less slowly, we know that the forms of life changed at the same rate.

Perhaps, although this is now an old controversy, it is worth while to recall that the keenness
of Huxley's language was not directed against Sir William Thomson, between whom and Huxley
there was no more than the desire to argue out an interesting scientific question upon which
their conclusions differed, but between Huxley and those outsiders who were always ready to
turn any dubious question in science into an argument discrediting the general conclusions
of science.

The last time that Huxley occupied the Presidential Chair of the
Geological Society was in 1870, and he occupied his Presidential
address by a review of the "old judgments" which he had given in the
course of his first address in 1862. The address was entitled
"Palæontology and Evolution," and the most important part of it was a
complete withdrawal of the fears he had expressed that geology would
not supply definite evidence of the transformation of species.
Important discoveries had come thick and fast; and, at least in the
case of the higher vertebrates, he declared that, however one might
"sift and criticise them," they left a clear balance in favour of the
doctrine of the evolution of living forms one from another. But, with
his usual critical spirit, examining arguments that bore against a
conclusion for which he hoped almost more stringently than arguments
apparently favourable to what he expected to be true, Huxley made an
important distinction, the value of which becomes more and more
apparent as time goes on. In the first flush of enthusiasm for
Darwinism, zoölogists and palæontologists allowed their zeal to outrun
discretion in the formation of family trees. They examined large
series of living or extinct creatures, and so soon as they found
gradations of structure present, they arranged their specimens in a
linear series, from the simplest to the most complex, and declared
that the arrangement was a representation of the family tree. The fact
that the line of descent apparently could have followed along the
direction they suggested they were inclined to take as evidence that
it had so followed. The fact that Anoplotheridæ are intermediate between
     pigs and ruminants does not tell us whether the ruminants have
     come from the pigs or the pigs from the ruminants, or both from
     Anoplotheridæ, or whether pigs, ruminants, and Anoplotheridæ;
     alike may not have diverged from some common stock.

A familiar instance will make the point at issue plain. Everyone knows that in many respects,
in the structure of the skeleton, and the curve of the backbone, and in the development of
the brain, the man-like monkeys, the gorilla and its allies, are intermediate between man and
the lower monkeys. In the early days of evolution it was assumed frequently that the gorilla,
etc., were therefore to be regarded as ancestors of man, and they appear as such in more than
one well-known treatise on evolutionary biology. We now know that it is exceedingly probable
that the gorilla and its allies, although truly intermediate types, and truly shewing a possible
path of evolution from the brute to man, are not the actual ancestors of man, but cousins,
descendants like man from some more or less remote common ancestor. And the tendency of recent
advances in knowledge is more and more to throw stress on the value of Huxley's distinction,
and to minimise confusion between "intermediate" and truly ancestral types.

From our attempt to place together as much as possible of Huxley's geological work in the last
chapter, it followed that we anticipated much that falls properly within this chapter. The
year 1859, the date of publication of The Origin of Species, is a momentous date in the history
of this century, as it was the year in which there was given to the world a theory that not
only revolutionised scientific opinion, but altered the trend of almost every branch of thought.
To understand this great change, and the part played in it by Huxley, it is necessary to be
quite clear as to what Darwin did. In the first place, he did not invent evolution. The idea
that all the varied structures in the world, the divergent forms of rocks and minerals and
crystals, the innumerable trees and herbs that cover the face of the earth like a mantle, and
all the animal host of creatures great and small that dwell on the land or dart through the
air or people the waters,--that all these had arisen by natural laws from a primitive unformed
material was known to the Greeks, was developed by the Romans, and even received the approval
of early Christian Fathers, who wrote long before the idea had been invented that the naive
legends of the Old Testament were an authoritative and literal account of the origin of the
world. After a long interval, in which scientific thought was stifled by theological dogmatism,
the theory of evolution, particularly in its application to animals, began to reappear, long
before Darwin published The Origin of Species. Buffon, the great French naturalist, and Erasmus
Darwin, the grandfather of Charles, had expressed in the clearest way the possibility that
species had not been created independently, but had arisen from other species. Lamarck had
worked out a theory of descent in the fullest detail, and regarded it as the foundation of
the whole science of biology. He taught that the beginning of life consisted only of the simplest
and lowest plants and animals; that the more complex animals and plants arose from these, and
that even man himself had come from ape-like mammals. He held that the course of development
of the earth and of all the creatures upon it was a slow and continuous change, uninterrupted
by violent revolutions. He summed up the causes of organic evolution in the following propositions[D]:

     "1. Life tends by its inherent forces to increase the volume of
     each living body and of all its parts up to a limit determined by
     its own needs.

      "2. New wants in animals give rise to new movements which
     produce organs.

      "3. The development of these organs is in proportion to their
     employment.

      "4. New developments are transmitted to offspring."

He supported especially the last two propositions by a series of examples as to the effects
of use and disuse; and the most famous of these, the theory that giraffes had produced their
long necks by continually stretching up towards the trees on which they fed, is well known
to everyone. However, the ingenious speculations of Lamarck were unsupported by a sufficient
range of actual knowledge of anatomy, and lacked experimental proof. He entirely failed to
convince his contemporaries; and Darwin himself, in a letter to Lyell, declared that he had
gained nothing from two readings of Lamarck's book. There can be little doubt but that several
Continental writers, in particular Haeckel, have exaggerated Lamarck's services to the development
of the idea of evolution. On the other hand, Lyell, although he strongly opposed the ideas
of Lamarck and some curious notions of progressional creation due to the great Agassiz, had
prepared the way for Darwin by his advocacy of natural causes and slow changes in opposition
to the catastrophic and miraculous views in vogue. Above all, Herbert Spencer had argued most
strenuously in favour of evolution. Thus, in an important passage quoted by Mr. Clodd from
the Leader of March 20, 1852, Spencer had written as follows:

     "Those who cavalierly reject the theory of evolution, as not
     adequately supported by facts, seem quite to forget that their
     own theory is not supported by facts at all. Like the majority of
     men who are born to a given belief, they demand the most rigorous
     proof of any adverse belief, but assume that their own needs
     none. Here we find, scattered over the globe, vegetable and
     animal organisms numbering, of the one kind (according to
     Humboldt) some 320,000 species, and of the other, some 2,000,000
     species (see Carpenter); and if to these we add the numbers of
     animal and vegetable species that have become extinct, we may
     safely estimate the number of species that have existed, and are
     existing, on the earth, at no less than ten millions. Well, which
     is the most rational theory about these ten millions of species?
     Is it most likely that there have been ten millions of special
     creations; or is it most likely that by continual modifications,
     due to change of circumstances, ten millions of varieties have
     been produced, as varieties are being produced still?... Even
     could the supporters of the development hypothesis merely shew
     that the origination of species by the process of modification is
     conceivable, they would be in a better position than their
     opponents. But they can do much more than this. They can shew
     that the process of modification has effected, and is effecting,
     decided changes in all organisms subject to modifying
     influences.... They can shew that in successive generations these
     changes continue, until ultimately the new conditions become the
     natural ones. They can shew that in cultivated plants,
     domesticated animals, and in the several races of men, such
     alterations have taken place. They can show that the degrees of
     difference so produced are often, as in dogs, greater than those
     on which distinctions of species have been founded. They can
     shew, too, that the changes daily taking place in ourselves--the
     facility that attends long practice, and the loss of aptitude
     that begins when practice ceases,--the strengthening of the
     passions habitually gratified, and the weakening of those
     habitually curbed,--the development of every faculty, bodily,
     moral, intellectual, according to the use made of it--are all
     explicable on this principle. And thus they can shew that
     throughout all organic nature there is at work a modifying
     influence of the kind they assign as the cause of these specific
     differences; an influence which, though slow in its action, does,
     in time, if the circumstances demand it, produce marked
     changes--an influence which, to all appearance, would produce in
     the millions of years, and under the great varieties of condition
     which geological records imply, any amount of change."

These and many other instances which might be brought together from the published writings
of the half-century before the publication of the Origin, show conclusively that the idea of
evolution was far from new, and that all through the first part of this century dissatisfaction
with the doctrine of the fixity of species and of their miraculous creation was growing. The
great contribution of Darwin was this: First, by his theory of natural selection, he brought
together the known facts of variation, of struggle for existence, and of adaptation to varying
conditions, in such a way that they provided men with a rational and known cause, a cause the
operation of which could be seen, for the origin of species by means of preservation of favoured
races. Next, as to the origin of species, he brought together not only proofs of the actual
operation of natural selection, but a body of evidence in favour of the fact of evolution that
was, beyond all comparison, more striking than had been adduced by any earlier philosophical
or biological writer. He convinced naturalists that evolution was by far the most probable
way in which the living world had come to be what it is, and he made them turn to examination
of the animal and vegetable kingdoms with a lively hope that the past history of the living
world was not an insoluble problem. Darwin's doctrine brought a new life into biological study,
and the result of the incomparably greater bulk of investigation that followed the year 1859
was a continual increase of evidence in favour of the probability of evolution, until now the
whole scientific world, and the majority of those who are unscientific, are content to accept
evolution as the only reasonable explanation of the living world. It is well to remember that
while Darwin, by bringing forward the theory of struggle for existence and resulting survival
of the fittest, was the actual cause of the present assured position of evolution as a first
principle of science, it by no means follows that the survival of the fittest has become similarly
a first principle of science. At cross roads a traveller may choose the right path from a quite
unsatisfactory reason. Darwin himself, in the act of bringing forward his own theory of natural
selection, admitted the possibility of the co-operation of many other agencies in evolution,
and at various times during the course of his life he was inclined to attach, now more now
less, importance to these additional agencies. Huxley, as we shall soon come to see, never
wavered in his adhesion to the facts of evolution after 1859; but, from first to last, regarded
natural selection as only the most probable cause of the occurrence of evolution. Other naturalists,
of whom the best-known are Weismann in Germany, Ray Lankester in England, and W.K. Brooks in
America, have come to attach a continually increasing importance to the purely Darwinian factor
of natural selection; while others again, such as Herbert Spencer in England, and the late
Professor Cope and a large American school, have advocated more and more strongly the importance
of what may be called the Lamarckian factors of evolution,--the inherited effects of increased
or diminished use of organs, the direct influence of the environment, and so forth. From the
fact that Darwin has persuaded the world of the truth of evolution, evolution is often called
Darwinism; and in this historically just though scientifically inaccurate sense of the term,
Huxley was a strict Darwinian, a Darwinian of the Darwinians. From the facts that, although
natural selection had been formulated by several writers before Darwin, and had been simultaneously
elaborated by Wallace and Darwin, the Origin of Species was the foundation of the modern acceptation
of evolution, and natural selection was the key-note of the origin of species, natural selection
may be called Darwinism with both historical and scientific accuracy; and in this sense of
the term Huxley was a Darwinian; a convinced but free-thinking and broad-minded Darwinian,
who was far from persuaded that his tenet had a monopoly of truth, and who delighted in shewing
the distinctions between what seemed to him probable and what was proved, and in absorbing
from other doctrines whatever he thought worthy to be absorbed. The present writer has thought
it so important to distinguish between these two sides of the word Darwinism, that for the
sake of clearness he has stated what he believes to be the truth of Huxley's relation to Darwin
before beginning detailed exposition of it.

In consideration of Huxley's position before 1859, the most interesting feature of his zoölogical
work is the gradual preparation that it was making in his mind for the doctrine of the Origin.
He was like an engineer boring a tunnel through a mountain, but ignorant of how near he was
to the pleasant valley on the other side; and, above all, ignorant how rapidly he was being
met by a much more mighty excavation from the other side. To use what is perhaps a more exact
simile: he was like a child with half the pieces of a puzzle-map, slowly linking them together
as far as they would fit, and quite ignorant that presently the remaining half would suddenly
be given him, and with almost no trouble would at once fit into the gaps he had necessarily
left, and transform a meaningless pattern into a perfect and intelligible whole. Let us consider
some of these map pieces. The ultimate picture was the conception of the whole world of life,
past and present, as a single family tree growing up from the simplest possible roots, and
gradually spreading out first into the two main branches of animals and plants, and then into
the endless series of complicated ramifications that make up living and extinct animals and
plants. Huxley was piecing together the scattered fragments, and gradually learning to see
here and there whole branches, as yet separate at their lower ends, but in themselves shapely,
and showing a general resemblance to one another in the gradual progression from simple to
complex. The greatest of these branches that he had pieced together was the group of Medusæ
and their allies, now known as Cœlenterates. He had formed similar branches for the Molluscs
and minor branches for the Salps and Ascidians, and, in his general lectures on the whole animal
kingdom, he had shadowed out the broad arrangement of the main divisions, or, as he called
them, types. He had seen in each particular branch the clearest evidence of the laws of growth
which had directed its development, and had realised that these laws of growth, consisting
of gradual modifications of common typical structures, were identical in the different branches.
He had taken clear hold of Von Baer's conception that the younger stages of different types
were more alike than the adult stages, and here and there he had made comparisons between the
younger stages or simplest forms of his different branches, and had shown that, without completely
realising it, he was ready for the idea that just as the separate pieces could be arranged
to form orderly branches, so the separate branches might come to be arranged as a single tree.
And finally, in his lectures on "Protoplasm and Cells," and on the "Common Structure of the
Animal and Plant Kingdoms," he had reached the conclusion that the two main divisions of the
living world were formed of the same stuff, displayed in identical fashion the elementary functions
of life, and were creatures of the same order. But, notwithstanding this close approach to
modern conceptions, he was not an evolutionist. When, in public, he expressed deliberate convictions,
these convictions were against the general idea of evolution, until very shortly before 1859.
In this opposition he was supported partly by the critical scepticism of his mind, which in
all things made him singularly unwilling to accept any theories of any kind, but chiefly from
the fact that the books of the two chief supporters of evolutionary conceptions impressed him
very unfavourably.

On the other hand, Huxley's friendship with Darwin and with Lyell began to make him less certain
about the fixity of species. Another quotation from Huxley's essay on The Reception of the
Origin of Species will make it plain beyond all doubt that he was not a Darwinian before Darwin.

What transformed Huxley's views and the views of his contemporaries who accepted Darwinism
was not so much the evidence in favour of evolution contained in the Origin, as the illuminating
doctrine of natural selection which for the first time supplied naturalists with a reasonable
explanation of how evolution might have come about, both in the animal and vegetable kingdoms.
As soon as this reason was provided them, they turned to the store of facts within their own
knowledge, and rapidly arranged the evidence which had been lurking only partly visible in
favour of the fact of evolution. It cannot be disputed that here and there earlier writers
than Darwin and Wallace had suggested the possibility of natural selection acting upon existing
variations so as to cause survival of the fittest. MacGillivray, the Scots naturalist, and
the father of Huxley's companion on the Rattlesnake, had published suggestions which came exceedingly
near to Darwin's theory. In 1831 Mr. Patrick Matthew had published a work on Naval Architecture
and Timber, and in it had stated the essential principle of the Darwinian doctrine of struggle
and survival. Still earlier, in 1813, a Dr. W.C. Wells, in a paper to the Royal Society on
"A White Female, Part of whose Skin Resembles that of a Negro," had, as Darwin himself freely
admitted, distinctly recognised the principle of natural selection--but applied it only to
the races of man, and to certain characters alone. Finally, long before either of these, Aristotle
himself had written, in Physics, ii., 8: "Why are not the things which seem the result of design,
merely spontaneous variations, which, being useful, have been preserved, while others are continually
eliminated as unsuitable?" None of these foreshadowings were supported by lengthy evidence,
nor worked out into an elaborate theory; and it was not until Darwin had done this that we
can say the birth of natural selection really took place.

Some weeks before the Origin was published, Darwin wrote to Huxley, sending him a copy of the
work, and asking him for the names of eminent foreigners to whom it should be sent. In the
course of his letter he wrote: "I shall be intensely curious to hear what effect the book produces
on you," and it was clear that he had no very confident expectation of a favourable opinion.
Huxley replied the day before the Origin was published, saying that he had finished the volume,
and stating that it had completely convinced him of the fact of evolution, and that he fully
accepted natural selection as a "true cause for the production of species." Darwin, in a letter
to Wallace, telling of his doubts and fears concerning the reception of his book, had added
the postscript: "I think I told you before that Hooker is a complete convert. If I can convert
Huxley, I shall be content." When he received Huxley's letter he replied at once:

     "Like a good Catholic who has received extreme unction, I can now
     sing Nunc Dimittis. I should have been more than contented with
     one quarter of what you have said. Exactly fifteen months ago,
     when I first put pen to paper for this volume, I had awful
     misgivings, and thought perhaps I had deluded myself, like so
     many have done; and I then fixed in my mind three judges, on
     whose decision I determined mentally to abide. The judges were
     Lyell, Hooker, and yourself. It was this which made me so
     excessively anxious for your verdict. I am now contented, and can
     sing my Nunc Dimittis."

These quotations make plain the historical fact that Huxley was convinced of evolution because
Darwin, by his theory of natural selection, brought forward an actual cause that could be seen
in operation, and that was competent to produce new species. As soon as the "flash of light"
came, it revealed to Huxley the vast store of evidence that he had unconsciously accumulated,
and it set him at once to work collecting more evidence. If we bear in mind the distinction
between evolution and natural selection, the well-known subsequent history of the relations
between Huxley and what was known popularly as Darwinism becomes clear and intelligible. From
first to last he accepted evolution; from first to last he accepted natural selection as by
far the most reasonable hypothesis that had been brought forward, and as infinitely more in
accordance with the observed facts of nature than any theory of the immediate action of supernatural
creative power. As time went on, and the influence of Darwin's theory made evolution acceptable
to a wider and wider range of people, until it passed into the common knowledge of the world,
that confusion of which we have spoken arose between evolution and Darwin's particular theory.
And as knowledge grew, and the number of biologists increased in the striking fashion of this
last half-century, while the evidence for evolution continued to increase with an unexpected
rapidity, every detail of the purely Darwinian theory became more and more subjected to rigid
scrutiny. Most educated people, unless their education has been largely in an experimental
science, find difficulty in understanding the relation in the minds of naturalists between
"authority" and "knowledge." We do not know, for instance, that the structure of the Medusæ
consists essentially of two foundation-membranes, because Huxley, one of the greatest authorities
in anatomy that the world has seen, told us that it was so. We know it because, Huxley having
told us that it was so, we are able at any time with a microscope and dissecting needles to
observe the fact for ourselves. It is true, that unless we are making a special study of the
Medusæ we do not repeat the observation in the case of so many different forms of Medusæ as
Huxley studied; but it is part of our training to observe for ourselves in a sufficient number
of cases to test the correspondence between statement and fact before we accept the generalisation
of any authority. And we learn, or at least have the opportunity of learning, in the whole
habit of our lives as naturalists, to distinguish carefully between knowledge of which personal
observation is an essential part, and opinion or belief which may or may not be based upon
authority, but which in any case is devoid of the corroboration of personal observation. When
a piece of new anatomical or physiological work is published in a technical journal, it is
read by a large number of anatomists and physiologists, and if the work is apparently of an
important kind, bearing on the general problems that even specialists have to follow, they
all at once set to work in their laboratories to make corroborative dissections or experiments,
and it is part of every modern account of a biological discovery to tell exactly the methods
by which results were got, in order that this process of corroboration may be set about easily.
The question as to whether or no natural selection were the sole or chief cause, or indeed
a cause at all, of evolution is not yet, and perhaps never will be, a matter of knowledge in
the scientific sense. At the most, we can see for ourselves only that selection does bring
about changes at least as great as the differences between natural species. The evidence for
this we have before our eyes, if we choose to see, on a stock farm; in the breeding yards of
any keeper of "fancy" animals; or in the nursery gardens of any florist. So far, Huxley accepted
the Darwinian principle as a definite contribution to knowledge; and so far the whole body
of biologists has followed him. Beyond this the truth of the Darwinian principle is a matter
of inference or judgment; of balancing probabilities and improbabilities. In multitude of counsellors
there is said to be wisdom, and what we learn from the counsellors of biology all over the
world is that some maintain that natural selection is the only probable agency in effecting
evolution, and that it is competent to account for all the changes which we know to have taken
place; others hold that its probable influence has been over-rated; and others, again, think
that it has been one of the many causes that have brought about the kaleidoscopic variety of
organic nature. Huxley remained to the last among those who distinguished in the clearest way
between natural selection as an exceedingly ingenious and probable hypothesis, and a proved
cause; and he was always careful, especially when he was writing for or speaking in the presence
of those who like himself accepted the fact of evolution as proven, to distinguish between
this provisional hypothesis as to how evolution had come about, and definite knowledge that
it had come about in this way. Two passages from Huxley's writings, one written in 1860 in
the Westminster Review, and the second written in 1893, in the preface to the volume of his
collected essays which contained a reprint of the Westminster article, will make plain the
continuity of Huxley's attitude:

     "There is no fault to be found with Mr. Darwin's method, then;
     but it is another question whether he has fulfilled all the
     conditions imposed by that method. Is it satisfactorily proved,
     in fact, that species may be originated by selection? That there
     is such a thing as natural selection? That none of the phenomena
     exhibited by species are inconsistent with the origin of species
     in this way? If these questions can be answered in the
     affirmative, Mr. Darwin's view steps out of the rank of
     hypotheses into those of proved theories; but, so long as the
     evidence at present adduced falls short of enforcing that
     affirmation, so long, to our minds, must the new doctrine be
     content to remain among the former--an extremely valuable, and in
     the highest degree probable, doctrine; indeed, the only extant
     hypothesis which is worth anything in a scientific point of view;
     but still a hypothesis, and not yet the theory of species.

      "After much consideration, and assuredly with no bias against
     Mr. Darwin's views, it is our clear conviction that, as the
     evidence stands, it is not absolutely proven that a group of
     animals having all the characters exhibited by species in nature,
     has ever been originated by selection, whether natural or
     artificial. Groups having the morphological character of species,
     distinct and permanent races, in fact, have been so produced over
     and over again; but there is no positive evidence at present that
     any group of animals has, by variation and selective breeding,
     given rise to another group which was in the least degree
     infertile with the first. Mr. Darwin is perfectly aware of this
     weak point, and brings forward a multitude of ingenious and
     important arguments to diminish the force of the objection. We
     admit the value of these arguments to the fullest extent; nay, we
     will go so far as to express our belief that experiments,
     conducted by a skilful physiologist, would very probably obtain
     the desired production of mutually more or less infertile breeds
     from a common stock in a comparatively few years; but still, as
     the case stands at present, this little 'rift within the lute' is
     not to be disguised or overlooked."--(Westminster Review,
     1860.)

      "We should leave a very wrong impression on the reader's mind if
     we permitted him to suppose that the value of Darwin's work
     depends wholly on the ultimate justification of the theoretical
     views which it contains. On the contrary, if they were disproved
     to-morrow, the book would still be the best of its kind--the most
     compendious statement of well-sifted facts bearing on the
     doctrine of species that has ever appeared. The chapters on
     variation, on the struggle for existence, on instinct, on
     hybridism, on the imperfection of the geological record, on
     geographical distribution, have not only no equals, but, so far
     as our knowledge goes, no competitors, within the range of
     biological literature. And viewed as a whole, we do not believe
     that, since the publication of Von Baer's Researches on
     Development, thirty years ago, any work has appeared calculated
     to exert so large an influence, not only on the future of
     biology, but in extending the domination of science over regions
     of thought into which she has, as yet, hardly
     penetrated."--(Ibid.)

      "Those who take the trouble to read the essays published in 1859
     and 1860, will, I think, do me the justice to admit that my zeal
     to secure fair play for Mr. Darwin did not drive me into the
     position of a mere advocate; and that, while doing justice to the
     greatness of the argument, I did not fail to indicate its weak
     points. I have never seen any reason for departing from the
     position which I took up in these two essays; and the assertion
     which I sometimes meet with nowadays that I have 'recanted' or
     changed my opinions about Mr. Darwin's views is quite
     unintelligible to me.

      "As I have said in the seventh essay, the fact of evolution is
     to my mind sufficiently evidenced by palæontology; and I remain
     of the opinion expressed in the second, that until selective
     breeding is definitely proved to give rise to varieties infertile
     with one another, the logical foundation of the theory of natural
     selection is quite incomplete. We still remain very much in the
     dark about the causes of variation; the apparent inheritance of
     acquired characters in some cases; and the struggle for existence
     within the organism, which probably lies at the bottom of both
     these phenomena."--(1893, Preface.)

Finally, when he was awarded the Darwin Medal of the Royal Society, on November 30, 1894, in
the course of an address at the anniversary dinner of the Society, he said, as reported in
the Times next day:

     "I am as much convinced now as I was thirty-four years ago that
     the theory propounded by Mr. Darwin, I mean that which he
     propounded--not that which has been reported to be his by too
     many ill-instructed, both friends and foes--has never yet been
     shewn to be inconsistent with any positive observations, and if I
     may use a phrase which I know has been objected to, and which I
     use in a totally different sense from that in which it was first
     proposed by its first propounder, I do believe that on all
     grounds of pure science it 'holds the field' as the only
     hypothesis at present before us which has a sound scientific
     foundation.... I am sincerely of opinion that the views which
     were propounded by Mr. Darwin thirty-four years ago may be
     understood hereafter as constituting an epoch in the intellectual
     history of the human race. They will modify the whole system of
     our thought and opinion, our most intimate convictions. But I do
     not know, I do not think anybody knows, whether the particular
     views he held will be hereafter fortified by the experience of
     the ages which come after us.... Whether the particular form in
     which he has put before us the Darwinian doctrines may be such as
     to be destined to survive or not, is more, I venture to think,
     than anybody is capable at this present moment of saying."

Further details of Huxley's relation to natural selection may be gained from an interesting
chapter in Professor Poulton's volume on Charles Darwin (Cassell and Co., London, 1896).

When Huxley wrote thanking Darwin for the first copy of the Origin, he warned him of the annoyance
and abuse he might expect from those whose opinions were too suddenly disturbed by the new
exposition of evolution, and assured him of the strongest personal support:

     "I trust you will not allow yourself to be in any way disgusted
     or annoyed by the considerable abuse and misrepresentation which,
     unless I greatly mistake, is in store for you. Depend upon it,
     you have earned the lasting gratitude of all thoughtful men; and
     as to the curs which will bark and yelp, you must recollect that
     some of your friends, at any rate, are endowed with an amount of
     combativeness which (though you have often and justly rebuked it)
     may stand you in good stead.

      "I am sharpening my claws and beak in readiness."

Huxley was absolutely right in his prediction as to the magnitude of the prejudices to be overcome
before evolution became accepted, and for the next thirty years of his life he was the leader
in the battle for Darwinism. It was natural that the new views, especially in their extension
to man himself, should arouse the keenest opposition. To those of the present generation, who
have grown up in an atmosphere impregnated by the doctrine of descent, the position of the
world in 1860 seems "older than a tale written in any book." As we have tried to shew in the
preceding chapter, biological science was partially prepared; the mutability of species and
the orderly succession of organic life were in the air. But the application of the doctrine
to man came as a greater shock to civilised sentiment than would have occurred a century earlier.
It came as a disaster even to the clearest and calmest intellects, for it seemed to drag down
to the dirt the nobility of man. Out of the fierce flame of the French Revolution, there had
come purged and clean the conception of man as an individual and soul. As this century advanced,
the conception of the dignity and worth of each individual man, rich or poor, bond or free,
had spread more and more widely, bearing as its fruit the emancipation of slaves, the spread
of political freedom, the amelioration of the conditions of the dregs of humanity, the right
of all to education, the possibility of universal peace based on the brotherhood of man; and
all that was best in philosophy and in political practice seemed bound up with a lofty view
of the unit of mankind. Carlyle himself, to whom many of the freest and noblest spirits in
Europe were beginning to look as to an inspired prophet, could see in it nothing but a "monkey
damnification of mankind." The dogmatic world saw in it nothing but a deliberate and malicious
assault upon religion. The Church of England in particular was beginning to recover from a
long period of almost incredible supineness, and there was arising a large body of clergy full
of faith and zeal and good works, but quite unacquainted with science, who frankly regarded
Darwin as Antichrist, and Huxley and Tyndall as emissaries of the devil. Against evolutionists
there was left unused no weapon that ignorant prejudice could find, whether that prejudice
was inspired by a lofty zeal for what it conceived to be the highest interests of humanity,
or by a crafty policy which saw in the new doctrine a blow to the coming renewed supremacy
of the Church. To us, now, it may seem that Huxley had "sharpened his beak and claws" with
the spirit of a gladiator rather than with that of the mere defender of a scientific doctrine;
but a very short study of contemporary literature will convince anyone that for a time the
defenders of evolution had to defend not only what they knew to be scientific truth, but their
personal and private reputation. The new doctrine, like perhaps all the great doctrines that
have come into the world, brought not peace but a sword, and had to be defended by the sword.
Darwin had not the kind of disposition nor the particular faculties necessary for a deadly
contest of this kind; he was interested indeed above all things in convincing a few leading
naturalists of the truth of his opinions; but, that done, he would have been contented to continue
his own work quietly, in absolute carelessness as to what the world in general thought of him.
Huxley, on the other hand, was incapable of restraining himself from propagating what he knew
to be the truth; his reforming missionary spirit was not content simply with self-defence;
it drove him to be a bishop in partibus infidelium.

By a curious and interesting accident, Huxley had the opportunity of beginning his propagandism
by writing the first great review of The Origin of Species in the Times, at that period without
question the leading journal in the world. Huxley's own account of this happy chance is given
in Darwin's Life and Letters, vol. ii.

     "The Origin was sent to Mr. Lucas, one of the staff of the
     Times writers at that day, in what I suppose was the ordinary
     course of business. Mr. Lucas, though an excellent journalist,
     and at a later period editor of Once a Week, was as innocent of
     any knowledge of science as a babe, and bewailed himself to an
     acquaintance on having to deal with such a book, whereupon he was
     recommended to ask me to get him out of his difficulty, and he
     applied to me accordingly, explaining, however, that it would be
     necessary for him formally to adopt anything I might be disposed
     to write, by prefacing it with two or three paragraphs of his
     own.

      "I was too anxious to seize on the opportunity thus offered of
     giving the book a fair chance with the multitudinous readers of
     the Times to make any difficulty about conditions; and being
     then very full of the subject, I wrote the article faster, I
     think, than I ever wrote anything in my life, and sent it to Mr.
     Lucas, who duly prefixed his opening sentences. When the article
     appeared, there was much speculation as to its authorship. The
     secret leaked out in time, as all secrets will, but not by my
     aid; and then I used to derive a good deal of innocent amusement
     from the vehement assertions of some of my more acute friends,
     that they knew it was mine from the first paragraph." "As the
     Times some years since referred to my connection with the
     review, I suppose there will be no breach of confidence in the
     publication of this little history."

This review was one of the few favourable notices, and naturally it delighted Darwin greatly.
He wrote to Hooker about it: "Have you seen the splendid essay and notice of my book in the
Times? I cannot avoid a strong suspicion that it is by Huxley; but I have never heard that
he wrote in the Times. It will do grand service." On the same day, writing to Huxley himself,
he said of the review:

     "It included an eulogium of me which quite touched me, although I
     am not vain enough to think it all deserved. The author is a
     literary man and a German scholar. He has read my book
     attentively; but, what is very remarkable, it seems that he is a
     profound naturalist. He knows my barnacle book and appreciates it
     too highly. Lastly, he writes and thinks with quite uncommon
     force and clearness; and, what is even still rarer, his writing
     is seasoned with most pleasant wit. We all laughed heartily over
     some of the sentences.... Who can it be? Certainly I should have
     said that there was only one man in England who could have
     written this essay, and that you were the man; but I suppose that
     I am wrong, and that there is some hidden genius of great
     calibre; for how could you influence Jupiter Olympus and make him
     give you three and a half columns to pure science? The old fogies
     will think the world will come to an end. Well, whoever the man
     is, he has done great service to the cause."

The essay in the Times was followed shortly afterwards by a "Friday Evening Discourse" in 1860
on "Species, Races, and their Origin," in which Huxley, addressing a cultivated audience, laid
the whole weight of his brilliant scientific reputation on the side of evolution. Next, in
April, 1860, he published a long article in the Westminster Review, then a leading organ of
advanced opinion, on The Origin of Species, some quotations from which article were made in
the last chapter. Apart from its strong support of the doctrine of evolution, its whole-hearted
praise of Darwin's achievements, and the clear way in which, while it showed the value of natural
selection as the only satisfactory hypothesis in the field, it gave reasons for regarding it
strictly as an hypothesis, the review is specially interesting as a contrast to reviews which
appeared about the same time in the Edinburgh Review and in the Quarterly. Both these were
not only exceedingly unfavourable, but were written in a spirit of personal abuse singularly
unworthy of their authors and still more of their subject. The review in the Edinburgh had
come as a particularly great shock to Darwin, Huxley, and their friends. Sir Richard Owen,
in many ways, was at that time the most distinguished anatomist in England. He had been an
ardent follower of Cuvier, and in England had carried on the palæontological work of the great
Frenchman. He was a personal friend of the court, a well-known man in the best society, and
in many ways a worthy upholder of the best traditions of science. In the particular matter
of species, he was known to be by no means a firm supporter of the orthodox views. When Darwin's
paper was read at the Linnæan Society, and afterwards when the Origin was published, the verdict
of Owen was looked to with the greatest interest by the general public. For a time he wavered,
and even expressed himself of the opinion that he had already in his published works included
a considerable portion of Darwin's views. But two things seemed to have influenced him: First,
Wilberforce, the Bishop of Oxford, and Sedgwick and Whewell, the two best-known men at Cambridge,
urged him to stamp once for all, as he only could do, upon this "new and pernicious doctrine."
Secondly, combined with his great abilities, he had the keenest personal interest in his own
position as the leader of English science, and had no particular friendship for men or for
views that seemed likely to threaten his own supreme position. In a very short time he changed
from being neutral, with a tendency in favour of the new views, to being a bitter opponent
of them. In scientific societies and in London generally, naturally enough he constantly came
across the younger scientific men, such as Huxley and Hooker, who had declared for Darwin,
and he made the irretrievable mistake of for a time attempting to disguise his opposition while
he was writing the most bitter of all the articles against Darwinism. That appeared in the
Edinburgh Review in April, 1860, and the range of knowledge it displayed, and the form of arguments
employed, naturally enough betrayed the secret of its authorship, although Owen for very long
attempted to conceal his connection with it. Darwin, who had the most unusual generosity towards
his opponents, found this review too much for him. Writing to Lyell soon after its publication,
he said:

     "I have just read the Edinburgh, which, without doubt is by
     ----. It is extremely malignant, clever, and, I fear, will be
     very damaging. He is atrociously severe on Huxley's lecture, and
     very bitter against Hooker. So we three enjoyed it together.
     Not that I really enjoyed it, for it made me uncomfortable for
     one night; but I have quite got over it to-day. It requires much
     study to appreciate all the bitter spite of many of the remarks
     against me; indeed I did not discover all myself. It scandalously
     misrepresents many parts. He misquotes some passages, altering
     words within inverted commas.... It is painful to be hated in the
     intense degree with which ---- hates me."

As Owen was still alive when this letter was published in Darwin's Life, the authorship of
the review was not actually mentioned; but it is necessary to mention it, as it justifies the
sternness with which Huxley exposed Owen on an occasion shortly to be described. The review
in the Quarterly was written by Wilberforce, the Bishop of Oxford, in July, 1860, and almost
at once the authorship of it became known to Darwin's friends.

In a footnote to this passage, Huxley wrote that he was not aware when writing these lines
that the authorship of the article had been avowed publicly.

As a matter of fact Wilberforce was a man of no particular information in letters or in philosophy,
and his knowledge of science was of the vaguest: a little natural history picked up from Gosse,
the naturalist of the seashore, in the course of a few days' casual acquaintance at the seaside,
and some pieces of anatomical facts with which he was provided, it is supposed, by Owen, for
the purposes of the review. But he bore a great name, and misused a great position; he was
a man of facile intelligence, smooth, crafty, and popular, and in this case he was convinced
that he was doing the best possible for the great interests of religion by authoritatively
denouncing a man whose character he was incapable of realising, and on whose work he was incompetent
to pronounce an opinion. Against an enemy of this kind, Huxley was implacable and relentless.
He was constitutionally incapable of tolerating pretentious ignorance, and he had realised
from the first that there could be no question of giving and taking quarter from persons who
were more concerned to suppress doctrines they conceived to be dangerous than to examine into
their truth. On the other hand, much as Huxley disliked Owen's devious ways, and although in
after life there occurred many and severe differences of opinion between Huxley and Owen, Huxley
had a sincere respect for much of Owen's anatomical and palæontological work, and when, in
1894, Owen's Life was published, one of the most interesting parts of it was a long, fair,
and appreciative review by Huxley of Owen's contributions to knowledge.

The middle of 1860, however, was not a time for Huxley, in his capacity as Darwin's chief defender,
to make truce with the enemy. In England a certain number of well-known scientific men had
given a general support to Darwinism. From France, Germany, and America there had come some
support and a good deal of cold criticism, but most people were simmering with disturbed emotions.
The newspapers and the reviews were full of the new subject; political speeches and sermons
were filled with allusions to it. Wherever educated people talked the conversation came round
to the question of evolution. Were animals and plants the results of special creations, or
were they, including man, the result of the gradual transformations of a few simple primitive
types evolving under the stress of some such force as Darwin's natural selection? To many people
it seemed to be a choice between a world with God and a world without God; and the accredited
defenders of religion gathered every force of argument, of misrepresentation, conscious and
unconscious, of respectability, and of prejudice to crush once for all the obnoxious doctrine
and its obnoxious supporters. In the autumn of that year it fell that the meeting of the British
Association, then coming into prominence as the annual parliament of the sciences, was to be
held at Oxford. It was inevitable that evolution should be debated formally and informally
in the sessions of the Association, and it must have seemed to the orthodox that there, in
that beautiful city, its air vibrant with tinkling calls to faith, its halls and libraries
crowded with the devout and the learned, its history and traditions alike calling on all to
defend the old fair piety, in such an uncongenial air, the supporters of evolution must be
overwhelmed. Almost the whole weight of the attack had to be resisted by Huxley. In the various
sectional meetings he had combat after combat with professors and clerics. Of these dialectic
fights the most notable were one with Owen on the anatomical structure of the brain, and another
with Wilberforce upon the general question of evolution. Owen contended that there were anatomical
differences not merely of degree but of kind between the brain of man and the brain of the
highest ape, and his remarks were accepted by the audience as a complete and authoritative
blow to the theory of descent. Huxley at once met Owen with a direct and flat contradiction,
and pledged his reputation to justify his contradiction with all due detail on a further occasion.
As a matter of fact, he did justify the contradiction, and no anatomist would now dream of
attempting the support of the proposition rashly made by Owen; but, at the time, the position
of Owen and the sympathies of the audience took away much of their effect from Huxley's words.
Two days later, Wilberforce, in a scene of considerable excitement, made a long, eloquent,
and declamatory speech against evolution and against Huxley. From the incomplete reports of
the debate that were published, it is difficult to gain a very clear idea of the Bishop's speech;
but it is certain that it was eloquent and facile, and that it appealed strongly to the religious
prejudices of the majority of the audience. He ended by a gibe which, under ordinary circumstances,
might have passed simply as the rude humour of a popular orator, but which in that electric
atmosphere stung Huxley into a retort that has become historical. He asked Huxley whether he
was related by his grandfather's or grandmother's side to an ape. Huxley replied:

     I asserted, and I repeat, that a man has no reason to be ashamed
     of having an ape for his grandfather. If there were an ancestor
     whom I should feel shame in recalling, it would be a man, a man
     of restless and versatile intellect, who, not content with an
     equivocal success in his own sphere of activity, plunges into
     scientific questions with which he has no real acquaintance, only
     to obscure them by an aimless rhetoric, and distract the
     attention of his hearers from the real point at issue by eloquent
     digressions, and skilled appeals to religious prejudice.

An eye-witness has told the present writer that Huxley's speech produced little effect at the
time. In the minds of those of the audience best qualified to weigh biological arguments, there
was little doubt but that he had refuted Owen, and simply dispelled the vaporous effusions
of the Bishop; but the majority of the audience retained the old convictions. The combat was
removed to a wider tribunal. From that time forwards Huxley, by a series of essays, addresses,
and investigations, continued almost to the end of his life, tried to convince, and succeeded
in convincing, the intellectual world. At the risk of wearying by repetition we shall again
insist upon the side of Darwinism that Huxley fought for and triumphed for.

Long before the time of Darwin and Huxley, almost at the beginning of recorded thought, philosophers
busied themselves with the wonderful diversity of the living world and with speculations as
to how it had assumed its present form. From the earliest times to this century, theories as
to the living world fell into one or other of two main groups. The key-note of one group was
the fixity of species: the belief that from their first appearance species were separate, independent
entities, one never springing from another, new species never arising by the modification in
different directions of descendants of already existing species. The key-note of the other
group of theories was the idea of progressive change: that animals and plants as they passed
along the stream of time were continually being moulded by the forces surrounding them, and
that the farther back the mind could go in imagination the fewer and simpler species would
be; until, in the first beginning, all the existing diverse kinds of living creatures would
converge to a single point. It may be that, on the whole, the idea of fixity prevailed more
among thinkers with a religious bias; but for the most part the theories were debated independently
of the tenets of any faith, Christian or other. There were sceptical defenders of fixity and
religious upholders of evolution. However, in Christian countries, from the time of the Reformation
onwards, a change in this neutrality of religion to theories of the living world took place.
As Pascal prophesied, Protestantism rejected the idea of an infallible Church in favour of
the idea of an infallible book, and, because it happened that this book included an early legend
of the origin of the world in a form apparently incompatible with evolution, Protestantism
and, to a lesser and secondary extent, Catholicism, assumed the position that there was no
place for evolution in a Christian philosophy. At the end of last century, and up to the middle
of this century, the problem was not raised in any acute form. The chief anatomists and botanists
were occupied with the investigation and discovery of facts, and, in an ordinary way, without
taking any particular trouble about it, accepted more or less loosely the idea that species
were fixed. Now and then an evolutionist propounded his views; but, as a rule, he supported
them with a knowledge of facts very much inferior to that possessed by the more orthodox school.
Then came Herbert Spencer, reasserting evolution in the old broad spirit, not merely in its
application to species, but as the guiding principle of the whole universe from the integrations
of nebulæ into systems of suns and planets to the transformations of chemical bodies. Before
his marvellous generalisations had time to grip biologists, there came Darwin; and Darwin brought
two things: first, a re-statement of the fact of evolution as applied to the living world,
supported by an enormous body of evidence, new and old, presented with incomparably greater
force, clearness, patience, and knowledge than had ever been seen before; and, second, the
exposition of the principle of natural selection as a mechanism which might have caused, and
probably did cause, evolution.

Huxley, as has been shewn, like many other anatomists, was ready for
the general principle of evolution. In fact, so far as it concerned
the great independent types which he believed to exist among animals,
he was more than prepared for it. Let us take a single definite
example of his position. And I may add, finally, that on this theory it is
     by no means difficult to account for the remarkable forms
     presented by the Medusæ in their young state. The Medusæ are the
     most perfect, the most individualised animals of the series, and
     it is only in accordance with what very generally obtains in the
     animal kingdom, if, in their early condition, they approximate
     towards the simplest forms of the group to which they belong."

Such words, written before 1849, only differ from those that would have been written by a convinced
evolutionist by a hair's breadth. But Huxley was not an evolutionist then: it was Darwin's
work, containing a new exposition of evolution and the new principle of natural selection,
that convinced him, not of natural selection but of evolution. At Oxford, in 1860, it was for
evolution, and not for natural selection, that he spoke; and throughout his life afterwards,
as he expressed it, it was this "ancient doctrine of evolution, rehabilitated and placed upon
a sound scientific foundation, since, and in consequence of, the publication of The Origin
of Species," that furnished him with the chief inspiration of his work. The clear accuracy
of his original judgment upon Darwin's work has been abundantly justified by subsequent history.
Since 1859 the case for evolution has become stronger and stronger until it can no longer be
regarded as one of two possible hypotheses in the field, but as the only view credible to those
who have even a moderate acquaintance with the facts. In 1894, thirty years after the famous
meeting at Oxford, the British Association again met in that historic town. The President,
Lord Salisbury, a devout Churchman and with a notably critical intellect, declared of Darwin:

     "He has, as a matter of fact, disposed of the doctrine of the
     immutability of species.... Few now are found to doubt that
     animals separated by differences far exceeding those that
     distinguish what we know as species have yet descended from
     common ancestors."

Huxley, in replying to the address, used the following words:

     "As he noted in the Presidential Address to which they had just
     listened with such well deserved interest, he found it stated, on
     what was then and at this time the highest authority for them,
     that as a matter of fact the doctrine of the immutability of
     species was disposed of and gone. He found that few were now
     found to doubt that animals separated by differences far
     exceeding those which they knew as species were yet descended
     from a common ancestry. Those were their propositions; those were
     the fundamental principles of the doctrine of evolution."

On the other hand, Huxley all through his life, while holding that natural selection was by
far the most probable hypothesis as to the mode in which evolution had come about, maintained
that it was only a hypothesis, and, unlike evolution, not a proved fact. In 1863, in a course
of lectures to workingmen, he declared:

     "I really believe that the alternative is either Darwinism or
     nothing, for I do not know of any rational conception or theory
     of the organic universe which has any scientific position at all
     beside Mr. Darwin's.... But you must recollect that when I say I
     think it is either Mr. Darwin's hypothesis or nothing; that
     either we must take his view, or look upon the whole of organic
     nature as an enigma, the meaning of which is wholly hidden from
     us; you must understand that I mean that I accept it
     provisionally, in exactly the same way as I accept any other
     hypothesis."

In 1878 he wrote:

     "How far natural selection suffices for the production of species
     remains to be seen. Few can doubt that, if not the whole cause,
     it is a very important factor in that operation; and that it must
     play a great part in the sorting out of varieties into those
     which are transitory and those which are permanent."

The difficulty in accepting natural selection as more than a hypothesis is simply that we have
no experimental knowledge of its being able to produce the mutual infertility which is so striking
a character of species. This difficulty is, in the first place, the difficulty of proving a
negative. It might be possible to prove that its operation actually does produce species; it
will always be impossible to prove that, in the past, natural selection, and no other known
or unknown agency or combination of agencies, had a share in the process. All naturalists are
now agreed that, as a matter of historical fact, it was the propounding of natural selection
by Darwin that led to the acceptance of evolution, to the fact that evolution "takes its place
alongside of those accepted truths which must be reckoned with by philosophers of all schools."

We have seen that some of the most important of the contributions made by Huxley to zoölogical
knowledge were in the field of the lower animals, especially of those marine forms for the
study of which he had so great opportunities on the Rattlesnake. A great bulk of his zoölogical
work, however, related to the group of back-boned animals. These, by their natural affinities
and anatomical structure, are more closely related to man, and, as Huxley began his scientific
work as a medical student, the groundwork of all his knowledge was study of the anatomy and
physiology of man. Moreover, throughout the greater part of his working life, he had more to
do with the extinct forms of life. The vertebrate animals, from the great facility for preservation
which their hard skeleton presents, as well as from the extremely important anatomical characters
of the skeleton, bulk more largely in the study of palæontology than does any other group.
In each of the great groups of vertebrate animals, in fishes, amphibia, reptiles, birds, and
mammals, Huxley did important work. Much of this is embodied in his treatise on Vertebrate
Anatomy, but to some particular parts of it special attention may now be directed, as much
because these serve as excellent examples of his method of work as because of their intrinsic
importance.

The skull is the most striking feature in the skeleton of vertebrate animals, and to the theory
and structure of the vertebrate skull Huxley paid special attention, and his views and summary
of the views of others form the basis of our modern knowledge. This work was put before the
public in the course of a series of lectures on Comparative Anatomy given in 1863, while Huxley
was Hunterian Professor at the Royal College of Surgeons, and the beginnings of it were contained
in a Croonian lecture to the Royal Society in 1858.

The theory of the skull which held the field was known as the vertebral theory. The great bulk
of the nervous system of vertebrate animals consists of a mass of tissue lying along the dorsal
line of the body and enclosed in a cartilaginous or bony sheath. The nerve tissue is the brain
and spinal cord; the sheath is the skull in front and the vertebral column along the greater
part of the length of the animal. The brain may be taken simply as an anterior portion of the
nerve mass, corresponding in a general way to an expansion of the spinal cord in the region
of the anterior limbs and an expansion in the region of the hind limbs, the latter indeed having
recently been shown in some extinct creatures to surpass the brain in size. In a similar simple
fashion the skull may be taken as an expanded anterior part of the vertebral column, serving
as an expanded box for the brain, just as in the regions of the pectoral and pelvic expansions
of the cord there are similar expansions of the surrounding bony case. We know now, from greater
knowledge of its embryological development, that the brain contains structures quite peculiar
to itself, and differs from the spinal cord in kind as well as in size; but, at the same time,
when the vertebral theory of the skull was inaugurated, embryological knowledge and the importance
of its relation to anatomical structure were less considered. What Huxley did was to show that
the skull, in its mode of origin and real nature, was not merely an expanded portion of the
vertebral column, but that it differed from it in kind.

The hypothesis of the vertebral structure of the skull was due both to Goethe, the great German
poet, and Oken, a most able but somewhat mystic German anatomist. An attempt had been made
by a well-known English anatomist to cast on Goethe the stigma of having tried to rob Oken
of the credit for this theory. Huxley set that matter finally at rest, disproving and repelling
with indignation the unworthy suggestion. Oken gave out his theory in 1807, and described how
it had been first suggested to his mind by the accident of picking up a dried and battered
sheep's skull, in which the apparent vertebral structure was very obvious, as, indeed, anyone
may see at a glance. It was in 1820, long after the theory had been made current, that the
poet first publicly narrated that in a similar way he had long before come to the same conclusion;
but Huxley was able to show that, although announcing it later, Goethe had in reality anticipated
the anatomist. A passage occurs in a letter to a friend, of a date in 1790, which admits of
no doubt. "By the oddest happy chance, my servant picked up a bit of an animal's skull in the
Jews' cemetery at Venice, and, by way of a joke, held it out to me as if he were offering me
a Jew's skull. I have made a great step in the formation of animals." It is an interesting
trait in Huxley's character, to find him zealous in defence of the reputation of a great man,
even although that man had been dead more than half a century; but it may be added that his
just zeal was at least stimulated by the fact that the maligner of Goethe was Owen, the conduct
of whom, with regard to Darwin and Huxley, Huxley had had just reason for resenting.

The theory, then, which had dropped stillborn from Goethe, but which Oken developed, was simply
that the skull consisted of a series of expanded vertebræ. Each vertebra consists of a basal
piece or centrum, the anterior and posterior faces of which are closely applied to the face
of an adjoining vertebra, and of a bony arch or ring which encloses and protects the nervous
cord. Oken supposed that there were four such vertebræ in the skull, the centra being firmly
fused and the arches expanded to form the dome of the skull. Quite correctly, he divided the
skull into four regions, corresponding to what he called an ear vertebra, at the back, through
which the auditory nerves passed; a jaw vertebra, in the sphenoidal region, through which the
nerves to the jaws passed; an eye vertebra in front, pierced by the optic nerves, and again
in front a nose vertebra, the existence of which he doubted at first. Quite rightly, he discriminated
between the ordinary bones of the skull and the special structures surrounding the inner ear
which he declared to be additions derived from another source. So far it cannot be doubted
that the vertebral theory made a distinct advance in our knowledge of the skull. It was to
a certain extent, however, thrown into disrepute by various fantastic theories with which Oken
surrounded it. Later on, Cuvier removed from it these wilder excrescences, and amplified the
basis of observation upon which the underlying theory of the unity of type of the skull throughout
the vertebrates was based. Cuvier, however, came to reject the theory, except so far as it
applied to the posterior or occipital segment of the skull. Later on, Owen resuscitated the
theory, first throwing doubt on the merit of Goethe, and then suggesting that Oken, instead
of relying on the observed facts, had deduced the whole theory from his own imagination. Owen,
although he made no new contribution to fact or theory in this matter, practically claimed
the whole credit of it as a scientific hypothesis.

When Huxley took up the subject, the position was that the vertebral theory was in full possession
of the field, under the auspices of Owen. Huxley began afresh from observed facts. The first
object of his investigation was to settle once for all the question as to whether the skulls
of all vertebrates were essentially modifications of the same type. He took in succession the
skulls of man, sheep, bird, turtle, and carp, and showed that in all these there were to be
distinguished the same four basi-cranial regions: the basi-occipital, basi-sphenoid, pre-sphenoid,
and ethmoid. These were essentially identical with the centra of the four vertebræ of Oken.
Similarly, he showed the composition of the lateral and dorsal walls, proving the essential
identity of the structures involved and of their relations to the nerve exits in the great
types he had chosen. In the series of lectures delivered before the College of Surgeons, he
extended his observations to a much larger series of vertebrates, and substantially laid down
the main lines of our knowledge of the skull. In two important respects his statements were
not merely a codification of existing knowledge, but an important extension of it. He distinguished
the different modes in which the jaws may be suspended to the skull, and established for these
different kinds of suspensoria the names which have ever since been employed. He proved clearly
what had been suggested by Oken, that the region of the ear is a lateral addition to the skull,
and he distinguished in it three bones, his names for which have since become the common property
of anatomists. Finally, he made it plain beyond any possible doubt that the skulls of all vertebrates
were built upon a common plan.

Having established the facts, he proceeded to enquire into the theory. There was now a new
method for investigating such problems, the method of embryology, which, practically, had not
been available to Oken, and of which neither Cuvier nor Owen had made proper use. By putting
together the investigations of a number of embryologists, by adding to these himself, and,
lastly, by interpreting the facts which his investigations into comparative anatomy had brought
to light, he shewed that the vertebral theory could not be maintained. He shewed, by these
methods, that, though both skull and vertebral column are segmented, the one and the other,
after an early stage, are fashioned on lines so different as to exclude the possibility of
regarding the details of each as mere modifications of a common type. Taking the embryological
facts, he shewed that the skull arose out of elements quite different from those of the vertebral
column. The notochord alone is common to both. The skull is built up of longitudinal cartilaginous
pieces, now known as the "parachordals" and "trabeculæ," of sense capsules enclosing the nose
and ear, and of various roofing bones. In the historical development of the skull three grades
become apparent; a primitive stage, as seen in Amphioxus, where there is nothing but a fibrous
investment of the nervous structures; a cartilaginous grade, as seen in the skate or shark,
where the skull is formed of cartilage, very imperfectly hardened by earthy deposits; a bony
stage, seen in most of the higher animals. He shewed that in actual development of the higher
animals these historical grades are repeated, the skull being at first a mere membranous or
fibrous investment of the developing nervous masses, then becoming cartilaginous, and, lastly,
bony. He made some important prophetic remarks as to the probable importance that future embryological
work would give to the distinction between cartilage and membrane bones--a prophecy that has
been more than fully realised by the investigations of Hertwig and of others. Our present knowledge
of the skull differs from Huxley's conception practically only in a fuller knowledge of details.
We know now that throughout the series there is a primitive set of structures common to all
animals higher in the scale than Amphioxus, and forming the base and lateral walls of the skull.
This is termed the Chondrocraninm, because it is laid down in cartilage; it is composed of
the separate elements which Huxley indicated, and, in different animals, as Huxley suggested,
the exact limits of the ossification of the primitive cartilages differ in extent, but occur
in homologous situations. This primitive skull is roofed over by a series of membrane bones
which have no connection in origin with the other portions of the skull, and which have no
representative in the vertebral column, but which are the direct descendants of the bony scales
clothing the external skin in cartilaginous fishes. In one respect only was Huxley erroneous.
Partly by inadvertence, and partly because the minute details of vertebrate embryology became
really familiar to zoölogists only after the elaborate work of Balfour of Cambridge, Huxley,
in his account of the formation of the first beginnings of the skeleton in the embryo, made
confusion between the walls of the primitive groove, which, in reality, give rise to the nervous
structures, and those embryonic tissues which form the skeletal system.

The next great piece of work which we may take as typical of Huxley's contributions to vertebrate
anatomy, is his classical study on the classification of birds. The great group of birds contains
a larger number of species than is known in any other group of vertebrates, and, in this vast
assemblage of forms there is strikingly little anatomical difference. The ostrich and the humming-bird
might perhaps be taken as types of the extremest differences to be found, and yet, although
these differ in size, plumage, adaptations, habits, mode of life, and almost everything that
can separate living things, the two conform so closely to the common type of bird structure
that knowledge of the anatomy of one would be a sufficient guide, down to minute details, for
dissection of the other. None the less, there are hundreds of thousands of species of birds
between these two types. It is not surprising that to reduce this vast assemblage of similar
creatures to an ordered system of classification has proved one of the most difficult tasks
attempted by zoölogists. Before Huxley, it had been attempted by a number of distinguished
zoölogists; but, for the most part, these had relied too much on merely external characters
and on superficial modifications in obvious relation to habits. When Huxley, in the course
of a set of lectures on Comparative Anatomy, was about to approach the subject of birds he
was asked by a zoölogist how he proposed to treat them. "I intend," he replied, "to treat them
as extinct animals." By that he meant that it was his purpose to make a prolonged study of
their skeletal structures the basis of his grouping, following the lines which Cuvier, Owen,
and he himself had pursued so successfully in the case of the fossil remains of vertebrates.
The result was that this first systematic study of even one set of the anatomical characters
of the group completely reformed the method by which all subsequent workers have tried to grapple
with the problem; ornithology was raised from a process akin to stamp-collecting to a reasoned
scientific study. The immediate practical results were equally important. He was able to shew
that among the innumerable known forms there were three grades of structure. The lowest had
already been recognised and named by Haeckel; it consisted of the Saururæ, or reptile-like,
birds, and contained a single fossil form, Archæopteryx, distinguished from all living birds
by the presence of a hand-like wing in which the metacarpal bones were well developed and freely
movable, and by the possession of a long lizard-like tail actually exceeding in length the
remainder of the spinal column. The next group of Ratites, although it contained only the Ostrich,
Rhea, Emu, Cassowary, and Apteryx, he shewed to be equivalent in anatomical coherence to the
third great group of Carinates, which includes the vast majority of living birds. In his arrangement
of the latter group, he laid most stress on the characters of the bony structures which form
the palate, and by this simple means was able to lay down clearly at least the main lines of
a natural classification of the group.

Huxley's work upon birds, like his work in many other branches of anatomy, has been so overlaid
by the investigations of subsequent zoölogists that it is easy to overlook its importance.
His employment of the skeleton as the basis of classification was succeeded by the work of
others who made a similar use of the muscular anatomy, of the intestinal canal, of the windpipe,
of the tendons of the feet, and many other structures which display anatomical modifications
in different birds. The modern student finds that all these new sets of facts are much greater
in bulk than the work of Huxley, and it is easy for him to remain in ignorance that they were
all suggested and inspired by the method which Huxley employed. He finds that further research
has supplanted some of Huxley's conclusions, and it is easy for him to remain in ignorance
that the conclusions themselves suggested the investigations which have modified them. Huxley's
anatomical work was essentially living and stimulating, and too often it has become lost to
sight simply because of the vast superstructures of new facts to which it gave rise.

Closely associated with vertebrate anatomy is the subject of geographical distribution. In
1857 the study of this important department of zoölogy was placed on a scientific basis, practically
for the first time, by a memoir on the geographical distribution of birds published in the
Journal of the Linnæan Society of London. It was known in a general way that different kinds
of creatures were found in different parts of the world, but little attempt had been made to
map out the world into regions characterised by their animal and vegetable inhabitants, as
the political divisions of the world are characterised by their different governments and policies.
Mr. Sclater, who two years later became secretary of the Zoölogical Society of London, in his
memoir introduced the subject in the following words:

     "It is a well-known and universally acknowledged fact that we can
     choose two portions of the globe of which the respective fauna
     and flora shall be so different that we should not be far wrong
     in supposing them to have been the result of distinct creations.
     Assuming, then, that there are, or may be, more areas of creation
     than one, the question naturally arises how many of them are
     there, and what are their respective extents and boundaries; or,
     in other words, what are the most natural primary ontological
     divisions of the earth's surface?"

Mr. Sclater's answer was that there are six great regions; Neotropical, Nearctic, Palæarctic,
Ethiopian, Indian, and Australian, and his answer, with minor alterations and the addition
of a great wealth of detail, has been accepted by zoölogy.

Two years later, however, Darwin gave a new meaning and a new importance to Sclater's work,
by the new interpretation he caused to be placed on the words "centres of creation." Sclater's
facts and areas remained the same; Darwin rejected the idea of separate creations in the older
sense of the words, and laid stress on the impossibility of accounting for the resemblances
within a region and for the differences between regions by climatic differences and so forth.
He raised the questions of modes of dispersal and of barriers to dispersal, of similarities
due to common descent, and of the modifying results produced by isolation. He gave, in fact,
a theory of the "creations" which Mr. Sclater had shewn to be a probable assumption. It was
in the nature of things that Huxley should make a contribution to a set of problems so novel
and of so much importance to zoölogy. In 1868, in the course of a memoir on the anatomy of
the gallinaceous birds and their allies, he made a useful attempt, nearly the first of its
kind, to correlate anatomical facts with geographical distribution. Having shewn the diverging
lines of anatomical structure that existed in the group of creatures he had been considering,
he went on to shew that there was a definite relation between the varieties of structure and
the different positions on the surface of the globe occupied at the present time by the creatures
in question. He made, in fact, the geographical position a necessary part of the whole idea
of a species or of a group, and so introduced a conception which has become a permanent part
of zoölogical science.

With regard to the number and limits of the zoölogical regions into which the world may be
divided, Huxley raised a number of problems which have not yet reached a full solution. Mr.
Sclater had divided the world into six great regions: the Nearctic, including the continent
of North America, with an overlap into what is called South America by geographers; the Palæarctic,
comprising Europe and the greater part of Asia; the Oriental, containing certain southern portions
of Asia, such as India south of the Himalayas and many of the adjacent islands; the Ethiopian,
including Africa, except north of the Sahara, and Madagascar; the Australian, containing Australia
and New Zealand and some of the more southeastern of the islands of Malay; the Neotropical,
including South America. Huxley first called attention to certain noteworthy resemblances between
the Neotropical and the Australian regions of Sclater, and held that a primary division of
the world was into Arctogæa, comprising the great land masses of the Northern Hemisphere with
a part of their extension across the equator, and Notogæa, which contained Australia but not
New Zealand and South America. Although this acute suggestion has not been generally accepted
as a modification of Mr. Sclater's scheme, it called attention in a striking fashion to some
very remarkable features in the distribution of animals. Subsequent writers have considerably
extended Huxley's conception of the similarities to be found among the more southern land areas.
They have pointed out that the most striking idea of the distribution of land and water on
the surface of the globe is to be got by considering the globe alternately from one pole and
from the other. In the south, a clump of ice-bound land, well within the Antarctic Circle,
surrounds the pole. All else is a wide domain of ocean broken only where tapering and isolated
tongues of land, South America, the Cape, Australia, lean down from the great land masses of
the north. On the other hand, all the great land masses expand in the Northern Hemisphere,
and shoulder one another round the North Pole. America is separated from Asia only by the shallowest
and narrowest of straits; an elevation of a few fathoms would unite Greenland with Europe.
Science points definitely to some part of the great northern land area as the centre of life
for at least the larger terrestrial forms of life. We know that these arose successively, primitive
birds like the ostriches being older than higher forms like the parrots and singing birds;
the pouched marsupials preceding the antelopes and the lion; the lemurs coming before the man-like
apes. Each wave of life spread over the whole area producing after its kind; then, pressing
round the northern land area, it met a thousand different conditions of environment, different
foods, enemies, and climates, and broke up into different genera and species. But there was
never a wave of life that was not followed by another wave. In the struggle for existence between
the newer and the older forms, the older forms were gradually driven southwards towards the
diverging fringes of the land masses. The vanquished left behind them on the field of battle
only their bones, to become fossils. Sometimes succeeding waves swept along to the extreme
limits of the land, and many early types were utterly destroyed. But others found sanctuary
in the ends of the South, and such survivors of older and earlier types of life cause a similarity
between the southern lands that Huxley called Notogæa, although the extent of his region must
be increased.

Recently, however, there has been a recurrence to Huxley's suggested union of South America
and Australia, based on new evidence of a direct kind, quite different from that which had
just been given. Various groups of naturalists have stated that there are similarities between
the invertebrate inhabitants of Australia and of South America of a kind which makes the existence
of a direct land connection in the Southern Hemisphere extremely probable. Moreover, Ameghino
has recently described some marsupial fossils from South America which, he states, belong to
the Australian group of Dasyuridæ, and Oldfield Thomas has described a new mammal from South
America which is unlike the opossums of America and like the diprotodonts of Australia. So
that, while the general opinion has been against Huxley's division, Notogæa, in the strict
meaning which he gave to it, there has recently been an opinion growing in its favour.

Huxley also made minor alterations in Mr. Sclater's scheme by forming an additional circumpolar
region for the Northern Hemisphere, and by elevating New Zealand into a separate region, distinct
from Australia. On these points there is a balance of opinion against his views.

Before leaving the subject of Huxley's contributions to vertebrate anatomy, the actual details
of which would occupy far too much space, it is necessary to mention the great importance to
zoölogy of the new terms and new ideas he introduced into classification. His mind was, above
all things, orderly and comprehensive, and while, in innumerable minute points, from the structure
of the palate of birds to the structure of the roots of human hair (actually the subject of
Huxley's first published contribution to scientific knowledge), he added to the number of known
facts, he did even more important work in co-ordinating and grouping together the known body
of facts. To him are due not only the names, but the idea, that the mammalian animals fall
into three grades of ascending complexity of organisation: the reptile-like Prototheria, which
lay large eggs, and which have many other reptilian characters; the Metatheria, or marsupial
animals; the Eutheria, or higher animals, which include all the common animals from the mole
or rabbit up to man. In a similar fashion, he grouped the vertebrates into three divisions,
and named them: Ichthyopsida, which include the fish and Amphibia, creatures in which the aquatic
habit dominates the life history and the anatomical structure; Sauropsida, including birds
and reptiles, on the close connection between which he threw so much light; Mammalia.

Even before the publication of The Origin of Species there was a considerable nervousness in
the minds of the more orthodox as to discussions on the position of the human species in zoölogical
classification. Men of the broadest minds, such as Lyell, who himself had suffered considerably
from outside interference with the scientific right to publish scientific conclusions, was
strongly opposed to anything that seemed to tend towards breaking down the barrier between
man and the lower creatures. Sir William Lawrence, a very distinguished and able man, had been
criticised with the greatest severity, and had been nearly ostracised, for a very mild little
book On Man; and Huxley tells us that the electors to the Chair of a Scotch University had
refused to invite a distinguished man, to whom the post would have been acceptable, because
he had advocated the view that there were several species of man. The court political leaders,
and society generally, resented strongly anything that seemed at all likely to disturb the
somewhat narrow orthodoxy prevalent in those times; and, as there were comparatively few posts
open to scientific men, and comparatively greater chances of posts being made for men of talent
and ability who adhered to the respectable traditions, those who tampered with so serious a
question as the place of man were likely to burn their fingers severely. However, the difficulties
of discussing these problems were much greater immediately after 1859. One of the most surprising
things in the history of this century is the sudden intensity of the opposition of the public,
particularly the respectable and religious public, to zoölogical writing upon man, immediately
after the publication of the Origin. Before that time anatomists did not necessarily hesitate
to point out the close resemblance between the anatomy of man and that of the higher apes,
and the difficulties anatomists had in making anatomical distinction of value between them.
Thus Professor Owen, who, as a writer, was rather unusually nervous about expressing facts
to which any objection might be raised by those outside the strictly scientific world, had
written the following paragraph in the course of an essay on the characters of the class Mammalia,
published, in 1857, in the Journal of the Proceedings of the Linnæan Society:

     "Not being able to appreciate or conceive of the distinction
     between the psychical phenomena of a chimpanzee and of a
     Boschisman or of an Aztec, with arrested brain-growth, as being
     of a nature so essential as to preclude a comparison between
     them, or as being other than a difference of degree, I cannot
     shut my eyes to the significance of that all-pervading similitude
     of structure--every tooth, every bone, strictly homologous--which
     makes the determination of the difference between Homo and
     Pithecus the anatomist's difficulty."

It is true, he went on to explain his belief in the existence of certain characters in the
brain which seemed to him to justify the separation of man in a different group from that in
which the apes were placed; but it is certain that he regretted having said anything which
seemed to support the Darwinian view; and, two years later, when the opposition to Darwin was
in its acutest stage, Owen withdrew his words. His "Reade Lecture," delivered in the University
of Cambridge, was in all respects a reprint of the essay from which we have just quoted, but
the apparently dangerous words were omitted. More than that, the points insisted on in the
essay as being sufficient for the purpose of separating man in zoölogical classification were
elevated into a reason against descent. Although Huxley, in several addresses and publications,
disproved the existence of the alleged differences, and although Sir William Flower gave an
actual demonstration shewing the essential identity of the brain of man and of the apes in
the matter in question, Owen never admitted his error.

It is not surprising that, if an anatomist so distinguished and acute as was Owen allowed his
judgment to be completely overborne by the storm of prejudice against Darwinism, those who
were not anatomists should have held up to ridicule all idea of comparison between man and
the apes. In The Origin of Species itself, no elaborate attempt had been made to set forth
the anatomical arguments in favour of or against a community of descent for man and the apes.
But it was made sufficiently plain, and the public laid hold of the point eagerly, that the
doctrine of descent was not meant to exclude man from the field of its operation. Huxley, in
the course of his ordinary work as Professor of Biology, had, among many other subjects, naturally
turned his attention to the anatomy and classification of the higher animals. When Owen's essay
appeared, he found that he was unable to agree with many of the conclusions contained in it,
and had set about a renewed investigation of the matter. Thus it happened that, when the question
became prominent, in 1860, Huxley was ready with material contributions to it. He believed,
moreover, that, as Darwin was not specially acquainted with the anatomy and development of
vertebrates, there was an opportunity for doing a real service to the cause of evolution. Accordingly,
in 1860, he took for the subject of a series of lectures to workingmen the "Relation of Man
to the Lower Animals," and, in 1862, expanded the lectures into a volume called Man's Place
in Nature. When it was ready, he was prepared to say with a good conscience that his conclusions
"had not been formed hastily or enunciated crudely."

     "I thought," he wrote in the preface to the 1894 edition, "I had
     earned the right to publish them, and even fancied I might be
     thanked, rather than reproved, for so doing. However, in my
     anxiety to promulgate nothing erroneous, I asked a highly
     competent anatomist and very good friend of mine to look through
     my proofs, and, if he could, point out any errors of fact. I was
     well pleased when he returned them without any criticism on that
     score; but my satisfaction was speedily dashed by the very
     earnest warning, as to the consequences of publication, which my
     friend's interest in my welfare led him to give; but, as I have
     confessed elsewhere, when I was a young man there was just a
     little--a mere soupçon--in my composition of that tenacity of
     purpose which has another name, and I felt sure that all the evil
     things prophesied would not be so painful to me as the giving up
     of that which I had resolved to do, upon grounds which I
     conceived to be right. So the book came out, and I must do my
     friend the justice to say that his forecast was completely
     justified. The Boreas of criticism blew his hardest blasts of
     misrepresentation and ridicule for some years; and I was even as
     one of the wicked. Indeed, it surprises me, at times, to think
     how anyone who had sunk so low could have emerged into, at any
     rate, relative respectability."

Further, in the same preface, Huxley strongly advises others to imitate his action in this
matter. There are now, and no doubt there always will be, truths "plainly obvious and generally
denied." Whoever attacks the current ideas is certain, unless human nature changes greatly,
to encounter a bitter opposition, and there will always be those among his friends who recommend
him to temper truth by prudence. Huxley's advice is different:

     "If there is a young man of the present generation who has taken
     as much trouble as I did to assure himself that they are truths,
     let him come out with them, without troubling his head about the
     barking of the dogs of St. Ernulphus. Veritas prævalebit--some
     day; and, even if she does not prevail in his time, he himself
     will be all the better and wiser for having tried to help her.
     And let him recollect that such great reward is full payment for
     all his labour and pains."

Although they were written so long ago, the lectures on "Man's Place in Nature" are still the
best existing treatise on the subject, and we shall give an outline of them, mentioning the
chief points in which further work has been done. Information concerning the man-like apes
was scattered in very different places, in the grave records of scientific societies, in the
letters of travellers and missionaries, in the reports of the zoölogical societies which had
been in possession of living specimens. The facts had to be sifted out from a great mass of
verbiage and unfounded statement. With a characteristic desire for historical accuracy, more
usual in a man of letters than in an anatomist, Huxley began with a study of classical and
mediæval legends of the existence of pigmies and man-like creatures; but, while recognising
that legends of satyrs and fauns were presages of the discovery of man-like apes, he was unable
to find any actual record earlier than that contained in Pigafetta's Description of the Kingdom
of Congo, drawn up from the notes of a Portuguese sailor and published in 1598. The descriptions
and figures in this work apparently referred to chimpanzees. From this date onwards he traces
the literature of the animals in question, and then proceeds to give an account of them.

There are four distinct kinds of man-like apes: in Eastern Asia the Orangs and the Gibbons
(although some later writers differ from Huxley in removing the Gibbons from the group of anthropoids);
in Western Africa, the Chimpanzees and the Gorillas. All these have certain characters in common.
They are inhabitants of the old world; they all have the same number of teeth as man, possessing
four incisors, two canines, four premolars, and six true molars in each jaw, in the adult condition,
while the milk dentition, as in man, consists of twenty teeth,--four incisors, two canines,
and four molars in each jaw. Since Huxley wrote, a large bulk of additional work upon teeth
has been published, and we now know that man and the anthropoid apes display the same kind
of degenerative specialisation in their jaws. Simpler and older forms of mammals had a much
larger number of teeth, and these differed among themselves more than the teeth of the higher
forms. In the Anthropoids and Man, the jaws are proportionately shorter and less heavy than
in simpler forms, and, in correspondence with this, the number of the teeth has become reduced,
while the teeth themselves tend to form a more even row. The canine or eye-teeth are relatively
smaller in the gorilla than in primitive mammals; they are still smaller in the lower races
of man; while in ordinary civilised man they do not project above the others. The shortening
of the jaw is still proceeding, and, although in lower races of man the last molar or wisdom
tooth is almost as large as the molars in front of it, in the higher races the wisdom tooth
is much smaller and frequently does not develop at all, or begins to decay very soon after
its appearance. If the process of extinction of lower races were to proceed much further, so
that civilised white races became the only human inhabitants of the earth, then the gap between
the Anthropoids and Man would be wider than it now is; man would be characterised by the presence
of one tooth less than the anthropoids, just as the anthropoids and some lower monkeys are
characterised by having one tooth less than monkeys still lower.

In all, the nostrils have a narrow partition and look downwards as in man. The arms are always
longer than the legs, the difference being greatest in the orang and least in the chimpanzee.
We know now that in the lower races of man, the arms are proportionately longer than in higher
races, and it has recently been shewn that, although there is a general proportion between
the length of the long bones and the height of the whole body in man, so that the height may
be calculated with an average error from these bones, yet the probable error is greater when
the calculation is made from the arms than when it is made from the legs. In fact, the length
of arm as compared to the length of leg and to whole height is a more variable feature in man
than the length of leg.

In all the anthropoids, the forelimbs end in hands with longer or shorter thumbs, and the great
toe, always smaller than in man, is far more movable and can be opposed like a thumb to the
other toes. Since Huxley wrote, a considerable amount of evidence has been collected shewing
that partial opposability of the toe in man is not uncommon, and that there is evidence as
to a tendency to increase of length of the great toe within historical times. None of the great
apes have tails, and none of them have the cheek pouches common among lower monkeys.

Huxley then gives an account of the natural history of these animals, an account which still
remains the best in literature. He sums up the habits of the Asiatic forms as follows:

1. They may readily move along the ground in the erect, or semi-erect position, and without
direct support from the arms.

2. They may possess an extremely loud voice, so loud as to be readily heard one or two miles.

3. They may be capable of great viciousness and violence when irritated; and this is especially
true of adult males.

4. They may build a nest to sleep in.

He finds the same general characters in the case of the gorilla and chimpanzee, but in their
case there was not quite so reliable evidence upon which to go.

Although, since Huxley wrote, there has been much greater opportunity of studying anthropoid
apes, both in confinement and in their native haunts, there is not much to add to his account.
Some little time ago, the world was interested by the assertion of a clever American that he
had discovered a kind of language used by the higher apes, and that he was able to communicate
with them. Mr. Garnier, the person in question, declared his intention of going out to tropical
Africa and establishing himself in a strong cage in the forests inhabited by gorillas and chimpanzees,
in the hope that, impelled by curiosity, they would look upon him as we look on monkeys in
a zoölogical garden, and that he would thus be able to make his knowledge and records of monkey
language more perfect. As a matter of fact he went to Africa, and on his return published a
volume which aroused the indignation of naturalists. There was internal evidence that he had
gone no further than the garden of a coast station, and his pretended account of the habits
of monkeys as they lived in their native haunts contained nothing that was not already known.
There is no doubt but that the anthropoid apes, like many other animals, use modulations of
their voice to express emotional states; that, in fact, they have love-cries and cries of warning,
of alarm, and of pleasure; but there is not the smallest evidence to suppose that in the case
of the anthropoids these cries approach more nearly to speech than the cries of any other of
the higher mammals.

Since Huxley's volume was published, a large amount of information has been published by Darwin,
Romanes, and others upon the mental capacities of anthropoids kept in confinement, and the
result of this has been to prove that the anthropoids, in especial the chimpanzees, possess
mental powers more akin to those of man than are to be found in the most intelligent of the
quadrupeds. We may cite some instances of these higher powers. Vosmaern had a tame female orang-outang
that was able to untie the most intricate knot with fingers or teeth, and took such pleasure
in doing it that she regularly untied the shoes of those who came near her. The female chimpanzee
called Sally, that lived for many years in the Zoölogical Society's Gardens in London, was
taught by its keeper and by Romanes an interesting variety of "tricks" involving at least the
rudiments of what may be called human intelligence. Among other feats, it would pick up from
the floor and present to the keeper or to a visitor, a stated number of straws up to five.
Many monkeys seem nearly purely destructive in their dealings with objects within their reach;
but Leutemann tells of an orang-outang which "tried to put to its proper use whatever was given
to him. To my great surprise he attempted to put on a pair of gloves. He supported himself
on a light walking cane and, when it bent under him, made ridiculous motions to right it again."
Brehm tells of a chimpanzee:

     "After eating, he at once begins to clean up. He holds a stick of
     wood in front of him, or puts his hands in his master's slippers,
     and slides about the room, then takes a cloth and scrubs the
     floor. Scouring, sweeping, and dusting are his favourite
     occupations; and, when he once gets hold of the cloth, he never
     wants to give it up."

Falkenstein has given a detailed description of a gorilla which was remarkable for his delicacy
in eating.

     "He would take a cup or glass with the greatest care, using both
     hands to carry it to his mouth, and setting it down so carefully
     that I do not remember having lost a single piece of crockery
     through him, though we had never tried to teach him the use of
     such vessels, wishing to bring him to Europe as nearly in his
     natural condition as possible."

These and a multitude of similar observations which have been made since Huxley wrote are typical
of the increase of our knowledge on the habits and capacities of the anthropoid apes. They
all serve to show that in them the instinct for experimental investigation of everything with
which they are surrounded, and their imitative faculties are peculiarly great. The importance
of this, from the point of view of Huxley's argument, is great. The difference between the
instincts of the lower animals and the intelligence of man is that instincts are to a large
extent fixed and mechanical. The proper performance of an instinct demands the presence of
exactly the right external conditions for its accomplishment. In the absence of these conditions,
the call to perform the instinctive action is equally great, and results in useless performances.
In many of the higher animals these elaborate instincts are more general in their character,
and are supplemented by a considerable but varying aptitude for modification of instinctive
action to suit varieties of surrounding circumstances. As this intelligence becomes more and
more developed, the blind, mechanical instinct becomes weaker. A large number of instances
might be given of such instincts modified by dawning intelligence. The chief factors in producing
the change are, as has been shewn by Professor Groos, the possession of a general instinct
to imitate and to experiment, and the existence of a period of youth in which the young creature
may practise these instincts, and so prepare itself for the more serious purposes of adult
life. The anthropoid apes seem to possess these experimental instincts to an extent much greater
than that observed in any other class of animals, and, as they have a long period of youth,
they have the opportunity of putting them into practice to the fullest possible extent.

From the natural history of the anthropoid apes, Huxley passed to consideration of their relation
to man, prefacing his observations with a passage defending the utility of the enquiry, a passage
necessary enough in these days of prejudice, but now chiefly with historical interest:

     "It will be admitted that some knowledge of man's position in the
     animate world is an indispensable preliminary to the proper
     understanding of his relations to the universe; and this again
     resolves itself in the long run into an enquiry into the nature
     and the closeness of the ties which connect him with those
     singular creatures whose history has been sketched in the
     preceding pages.

      "The importance of such an enquiry is, indeed, intuitively
     manifest. Brought face to face with these blurred copies of
     himself, the least thoughtful of men is conscious of a certain
     shock; due perhaps not so much to disgust at the aspect of what
     looks like an insulting caricature, as to the awakening of a
     sudden and profound mistrust of time-honoured theories and
     strongly rooted prejudices regarding his own position in nature,
     and his relations to the underworld of life; while that which
     remains a dim suspicion for the unthinking, becomes a vast
     argument, fraught with the deepest consequences, for all who are
     acquainted with the recent progress of the anatomical and
     physiological sciences."

Huxley then proceeded to elaborate the argument from development for the essential identity
of man and the apes. This argument has now become more or less familiar to us all, as it has
gained additional support from recent extension of embryological knowledge, and as it has been
used in every work on evolution since Huxley first laid stress on it. The adult forms of animals
are much more complex than their embryonic stages, and the series of changes passed through
in attaining the adult condition make up the embryological history of the animal. Huxley took
the embryology of the dog as an example of the process in the higher animals generally, and
as it had been worked out in detail by a set of investigators. The dog, like all vertebrate
animals, begins its existence as an egg; and this body is just as much an egg as that of a
fowl, although, in the case of the dog, there is not the accumulation of nutritive material
which bloats the egg of the hen into its enormous size. Since Huxley wrote, it has been shewn
clearly that among the mammalian animals there has been a gradual reduction in the size of
the egg. The ancestors of the mammals laid large eggs, like those of birds or reptiles; and
there still exist two strange mammalian creatures, the Ornithorhynchus and Echidna of Australia,
which lay large, reptilian-like eggs. The ancestors of most living mammalia acquired the habit
of retaining the eggs within the body until they were hatched; and, as a result of this, certain
structures which grow out from the embryo while it is still within the egg and become applied
to the inner wall of the porous shell for the purpose of obtaining air, got their supply of
oxygen, not from the outer air, but from the blood-vessels of the maternal tissues. When this
connection (called the placenta) between embryo and mother through the egg-shell became more
perfect, not only oxygen but food-material was obtained from the blood-vessels of the mother;
and, in consequence, it became unnecessary for the eggs to be provided with a large supply
of food-yolk. Among existing marsupial animals, which, on the whole, represent a lower type
of mammalian structure than ordinary mammals, there is more food-yolk than in ordinary mammals,
and less food-yolk than in the two egg-laying mammals. In the ordinary mammals, such as the
rabbit, dog, monkey, and man, there is practically no yolk whatever deposited in the egg; the
egg is of minute size, and the embryo obtains most of its food from the maternal blood.

The small egg of the mammal divides into a number of cells, which form a hollow sphere; on
the upper surface of this the development of organs begins with the formation of a depression
which indicates the future middle line of the animal, and is, in fact, the beginning of the
nervous system. Under this is formed a straight rod of gelatinous material, the foundation
of the vertebral column, and the body of the embryo is gradually pinched off from the surface
of the hollow sphere. After tracing the details of this process, Huxley proceeded as follows:

     "The history of the development of any other vertebrate animal,
     lizard, snake, frog or fish, tells the same story. There is
     always, to begin with, an egg, having the same essential
     structure as that of the dog; the yolk of that egg always
     undergoes division, or segmentation, as it is often called; the
     ultimate products of that segmentation constitute the building
     materials for the body of the young animal; and this is built up
     round a primitive groove, in the floor of which a notochord is
     developed. Furthermore, there is a period in which the young of
     all these animals resemble one another, not merely in outward
     form, but in all essentials of structure, so closely, that the
     differences between them are inconsiderable, while in their
     subsequent course they diverge more and more widely from one
     another. And it is a general law, that, the more closely any
     animals resemble one another in adult structure, the longer and
     the more intimately do their embryos resemble one another; so
     that, for example, the embryos of a snake and of a lizard remain
     like one another longer than do those of a snake and of a bird;
     and the embryos of a dog and of a cat remain like one another for
     a far longer period than do those of a dog and a bird; or of a
     dog and an opossum; or even than those of a dog and a monkey."

This general rule, that the longer the paths of embryonic development of two animals keep identical
the more nearly the two animals are related, when Huxley wrote, was founded on a much smaller
number of facts than now are known. Since 1860 an enormous bulk of embryological investigation
has been published, and the total result has been to confirm Huxley's position in the fullest
possible way. A certain number of exceptions have been found, but these exceptions are so obviously
special adaptations to special circumstances that their existence only makes the general truth
of the proposition more clear. The most common kind of exception occurs when two closely related
animals live under very different conditions. For instance, many marine animals have close
allies that in comparatively recent times have taken to live in fresh water. The conditions
of life in fresh water are very different, especially for delicate creatures susceptible to
rapid changes of temperature, or unable to withstand strong currents. Thus most of the allies
of the fresh-water crayfish, which live in the sea, lay eggs from which there are soon hatched
minute, almost transparent larvæ, exceedingly unlike the adult. In the comparatively equable
temperature of sea-water, and in the usual absence of strong currents, these small larvæ, as
Huxley shewed later in his volume on the Crayfish, live a free life, obtaining their own food,
and by a series of slow transformations gradually acquire the adult form. In fresh water, however,
the delicate larvæ would be unable to live, and the mode of development is different. The series
of slow transformations is condensed, and takes place almost entirely inside the egg-shell;
so that, when hatching occurs, the young crayfish is exceedingly like the adult. Apart from
such special cases, it is true that the study of development affords a clear test of closeness
of structural affinity.

Huxley then proceeds to discuss the development of man.

     "Is he something apart? Does he originate in a totally different
     way from dog, bird, frog, and fish, thus justifying those who
     assert him to have no place in nature, and no real affinity with
     the lower world of animal life? Or does he originate in a similar
     germ, pass through the same slow and gradually progressive
     modifications, depend on the same contrivances for protection and
     nutrition, and finally enter the world by the help of the same
     mechanism? The reply is not doubtful for a moment, and has not
     been doubtful any time these thirty years. Without question, the
     mode of origin, and the early stages of the development of man
     are identical with those of animals immediately below him in the
     scale; without doubt, in these respects, he is far nearer the
     apes than the apes are to the dog."

Then, on lines with which, by continuous repetition and expansion by authors subsequent to
him, we have now become familiar, Huxley compared, stage by stage, the development of man with
that of other animals, and shewed, first, its essential similarity, and then that in every
case where it departed from the development of the dog it resembled more closely the development
of the ape. He went on to review the anatomy of man:

     "Thus, identical in the physical processes by which he
     originates,--identical, in the early stages of his
     formation--identical in the mode of his nutrition before and
     after birth, with the animals which lie immediately below him in
     the scale,--Man, if his adult and perfect structure be compared
     with theirs exhibits, as might be expected, a marvellous likeness
     of organisation. He resembles them as they resemble one
     another--he differs from, them as they differ from one another.
     And, though these differences cannot be weighed and measured,
     their value may be readily estimated; the scale or standard of
     judgment, touching that value, being afforded and expressed by
     the system of classification of animals now current among
     zoölogists."

Having explained the general system of zoölogical classification, he tried to dispel preliminary
prejudice by inducing his readers or bearers to take an outside view of themselves.

     "Let us endeavour for a moment to disconnect our thinking selves
     from the mask of humanity; let us imagine ourselves scientific
     Saturnians, if you will, fairly acquainted with such animals as
     now inhabit the earth, and employed in discussing the relations
     they bear to a new and singular 'erect and featherless biped,'
     which some enterprising traveller, overcoming the difficulties of
     space and gravitation, has brought from that distant planet for
     our inspection, well preserved, may be, in a cask of rum. We
     should all, at once, agree upon placing him among the mammalian
     vertebrates; and his lower jaw, his molars, and his brain, would
     leave no room for doubting the systematic position of the new
     genus among those mammals whose young are nourished during
     gestation by means of a placenta, or what are called the
     placental mammals.

      "Further, the most superficial study would at once convince us
     that, among the orders of placental mammals, neither the whales,
     nor the hoofed creatures, nor the sloths and ant-eaters, nor the
     carnivorous cats, dogs, and bears, still less the rodent rats and
     rabbits, or the insectivorous moles and hedgehogs, or the bats,
     could claim our Homo as one of themselves.

      "There would remain, then, but one order for comparison, that of
     the apes (using that word in its broadest sense), and the
     question for discussion would narrow itself to this--Is Man so
     different from any of these apes that he must form an order by
     himself? Or does he differ less from them than they differ from
     one another,--and hence must take his place in the same order
     with them?

      "Being happily free from all real or imaginary personal interest
     in the results of the enquiry thus set afoot, we should proceed
     to weigh the arguments on one side and on the other, with as much
     judicial calmness as if the question related to a new opossum.
     We should endeavour to ascertain, without seeking either to
     magnify or diminish them, all the characters by which our new
     mammal differed from the apes; and if we found that these were of
     less structural value than those which distinguish certain
     members of the ape order from others universally admitted to be
     of the same order, we should undoubtedly place the newly
     discovered tellurian genus with them."

In pursuit of this method, and taking the gorilla as the type for immediate comparison with
man, he passed in review the various anatomical structures, shewing that in every case man
did not differ more from the gorilla than that differed from other anthropoids. We shall take
a few examples of his method and results, reminding our readers, however, that Huxley carried
his comparisons into every important part of the anatomical structure.

There is no part of the skeleton so characteristically human as the bones which form the pelvis,
or bony girdle of the hips. The expanded haunch-bones form a basin-like structure which affords
support to the soft internal viscera during the habitually upright position, and gives space
for the attachment of the very large muscles which help man to assume and support that attitude.
In the gorilla this region differs considerably from that in man. The haunch-bones are narrower
and much shallower, so that they do not form so convenient a supporting basin; they have much
less surface for the attachment of muscles. The gibbon, however, differs more vastly from the
gorilla than that differs from man. The haunch-bones are flat and narrow, and totally devoid
of any basin-like formation; the passage through the pelvis is long and narrow, and the ischia
have outwardly curved prominences, which, in life, are coated by callosities on which the animal
habitually rests, and which are coarse, corn-like patches of skin wholly absent in the gorilla,
in the chimpanzee, in the orang, and in man.

In the characters of the hands, the feet, and the brain, certain real or supposed structural
distinctions between man and the apes had been relied upon.

     "Man has been defined as the only animal possessed of two hands
     terminating his fore-limbs, and of two feet terminating his
     hind-limbs, while it has been said that all the apes possess four
     hands; and he has been affirmed to differ fundamentally from all
     the apes in the characters of his brain, which alone, it has been
     strangely asserted and reasserted, exhibits the structures known
     to anatomists as the posterior lobe, the posterior cornu of the
     lateral ventricle, and the hippocampus minor.

      "That the former proposition should have gained general
     acceptance is not surprising--indeed, at first sight, appearances
     are much in its favour; but, as for the second, one can only
     admire the surpassing courage of its enunciator, seeing that it
     is an innovation which is not only opposed to generally and
     justly accepted doctrines, but which is directly negatived by the
     testimony of all original enquirers who have specially
     investigated the matter; and that it has neither been, nor can
     be, supported by a single anatomical preparation. It would, in
     fact, be unworthy of serious refutation except for the general
     and natural belief that deliberate and reiterated assertions must
     have some foundation."

The last remarks referred, of course, to the statements of Owen, which had made a great impression
at the time and the result of which still lingers in some of the worse-informed treatises attacking
evolution. Huxley gave a lucid account of the general structure and arrangement of the brain
in the vertebrate series, explaining the well-known fact that from fish up to man the general
ground-plan of the brain is identical, but that there is a progressive increase in the complexity
and in the size of some parts compared with others. Next, he showed that, so far from its being
possible to erect any barrier in the structure of the brain between man and the apes, there
exists among the mammals an almost complete series of gradations from brains a little higher
than that of the rabbit to brains a little lower than that of man. He laid great stress on

     "the remarkable circumstance that though, so far as our present
     knowledge extends, there is one structural break in the series
     of forms of simian brains, this hiatus does not lie between man
     and the man-like apes, but between the lower and the lowest
     simians; or, in other words, between the old-and new-world apes
     and monkeys, and the lemurs. Every lemur which has yet been
     examined, in fact, has its cerebellum partially visible from
     above, and its posterior lobe, with the contained posterior cornu
     and hippocampus minor, more or less rudimentary. Every marmoset,
     American monkey, old-world monkey, baboon, or man-like ape, on
     the contrary, has its cerebellum entirely hidden, posteriorly, by
     the cerebral lobes, and possesses a large posterior cornu, with a
     well-developed hippocampus minor." ... "So far from the posterior
     lobe, the posterior cornu, and the hippocampus minor being
     structures peculiar to, and characteristic of man, as they have
     over and over again been asserted to be, even after the
     publication of the clearest demonstration of the reverse, it is
     precisely these structures which are the most marked cerebral
     characters common to man with the apes. They are among the most
     distinctly simian peculiarities which the human organism
     exhibits." ... "Man differs from the chimpanzee or the orang, so
     far as cerebral structure goes, less than these do from the
     monkeys, and the difference between the brains of the chimpanzee
     and of man is almost insignificant, when compared with that
     between the chimpanzee brain and that of a lemur."

Although Huxley found no structural differences between the brains of man and of anthropoid
apes, he was careful to lay great stress on the important difference in size and weight. A
full-grown gorilla is nearly twice as heavy as a European woman, and yet the heaviest known
gorilla brain probably does not exceed twenty ounces in weight, while healthy adult human brains
probably never weigh less than thirty-one or thirty-two ounces. This difference is not of systematic
importance; for cranial capacities shew that relatively and absolutely there is a greater difference
in brain-weight between the lowest and highest human beings than there is between the highest
ape and the lowest human being.

In dealing with the suggestion that man differs from the apes in being bimanous, while the
apes are quadrumanous, Huxley first explained and discussed what the exact differences between
hands and feet are. He shewed that in man the foot is absolutely distinguished from the hand
by three structural points, although the two organs are similar in general ground-plan. These
structural points are:

1. The arrangement of the tarsal bones.

2. The possession of a short flexor and short extensor muscle of the digits.

3. The possession of a muscle named peronæus longus.

Then he described the foot of the gorilla, and shewed that although it was superficially hand-like,
it possessed all the structural characters that distinguish a foot from a hand. Tracing the
structure of the foot downwards through the series of anthropoids and monkeys, he established
clearly that, while important differences existed in nearly every single creature, the differences
between the gorilla and man were not greater than those between the gorilla and other anthropoids,
and less than between the gorilla and lower monkeys.

This wonderful series of lectures ranks very high among the important works of Huxley. It is
true that a considerable proportion of the work was not absolutely original, but it had all
been specially verified by him. It was a task undertaken with the greatest courage, and with
a care equal to the courage; and it settled conclusively for all time the impossibility of
making between man and the anthropoids any anatomical barriers greater than those which exist
between the different although closely related members of any of the other family groups in
the animal kingdom. The advance of knowledge has only added to the details of Huxley's argument;
it has not made any reconstruction of it necessary. A writer on the same subject to-day would
to all certainty make use of the same general methods. The chief differences, perhaps, that
would be made are two: First, greater stress would be laid on the distinction, first made by
Huxley himself, between intermediate and linear types. (See p. 87). To use the popular phrase,
a great deal of water has passed under the bridges since the separation of man from the ape-like
progenitors common to him and to the existing anthropoids. It has already been pointed out
that the gradual extinction of lower races of man is widening the apparent gap between existing
man and existing apes; and evidence accumulates that many still more primitive and more ape-like
races of man than the lowest existing savages have disappeared from the surface of the earth.
Moreover, we know that existing anthropoids are the degenerate and scattered remnants of what
was once a much more widely spread and more important group. We have some reason for believing
the contrary, and no reason for believing that the surviving anthropoids represent the most
man-like apes that have lived.

The second great point in which a modern writer would amend Huxley's statement of the case
is more purely anatomical. One result of Darwin's work has been that anatomists attend much
more closely to the slight variations of anatomical structure to be found among individuals
of the same species. A comparison between an individual human body and the body of an individual
gorilla is not now considered sufficient. The comparison must be made between the results of
dissection of a very large number of men and of a very large number of gorillas. The anatomy
of a type is not the anatomy of an individual; it is a kind of central point around which there
oscillate the variations presented by the individuals belonging to the type. So far as this
newer method has been applied, it has been found that the variations of the gorilla type frequently,
in the case of individual organs, overlap the variations of the human type, and that the structure
of man differs from the structure of any anthropoid type only in that the abstract central
point of its variations is slightly different from the abstract central point of the variations
presented by individual orangs, gorillas, and chimpanzees.

Less than half a century ago, there was practically no generally diffused knowledge of even
the elements of science and practically no provision for teaching it. Medical students, in
the course of their professional education, received some small instruction in botany, chemistry,
and physiology; in the greater universities of England and the Continent there were not in
all a dozen professorships of science apart from special branches of medicine; in the Scottish
universities there were one or two dreamy chairs of "Natural and Civil History," the occupiers
of which were supposed to dispense instruction in half a dozen sciences. There was no scientific
teaching at the public schools; there were practically no books available for beginners in
science, and even the idea of guides to laboratory work had not been invented.

The power to express the precise meaning of even a common physiological act is probably not
yet possessed by all educated people: but no one can doubt that there is now a very generally
diffused knowledge of and interest in the ordinary processes of living bodies. It is almost
impossible for any of us to escape some amount of scientific education at school, at college,
from lectures, or from books. Certainly those of us who have a natural inclination towards
knowledge of that kind can hardly fail to have the opportunity of acquiring it. Every library
abounds in elementary and advanced scientific books; every university and many schools have
their lectures and laboratories for science, and there is scientific teaching involved in every
educational curriculum. To attempt a complete account of how this radical change in the attitude
of the world to science has come about would be to attempt to write the history of European
civilisation in the last half-century. A thousand causes have been contributory; but among
these causes two have been of extraordinary importance--an idea and a man. The idea is the
conception of organic evolution, and the man was Huxley. The idea of evolution clothed the
dead bones of anatomy with a fair and living flesh, and the new body left the dusty corners
of museums to pervade the world, arousing the attention and interest of all. A large part of
the prodigious mental activities of Huxley was devoted to compelling the world to take an interest
in biological science. Had his life-work been no more than this side of it, it would have been
of commanding importance. A mere enumeration of the modes in which he assisted in arousing
attention to science among all classes would fill many pages. Almost before he was settled
in London, in the lecture from which we quoted at the beginning of this chapter he urged the
"educational value of the natural history sciences." In 1869 in a speech in Liverpool; in 1870
at University College, London; in 1874 as his Rectorial address in the University of Aberdeen;
in 1876 at the opening ceremonial of the Johns Hopkins University at Baltimore; in the same
year at South Kensington; in 1877 in a separate essay; in 1881 in an address to the International
Medical Congress: at these different times and addressing different and important audiences
he continued to urge the absolute necessity of a knowledge of nature.

Huxley wished that this scientific education should begin at an early period of every child's
training.

In 1880 Huxley, in association with Professor Roscoe, the chemist, and Professor Balfour Stewart,
the physicist, took a great practical step toward securing the widest possible extension of
elementary knowledge in science. They became general editors, for the English publishing house
of Macmillan, of a series of "Science Primers." These were written in simple language, suitable
for those with no preliminary knowledge of science, but were the work of the chief authorities
in the leading branches of science. They were published at what was then the phenomenally cheap
price of a shilling, and they sold in almost incredible numbers. Huxley himself wrote the introductory
volume to this great series of tracts, taking for his subject the simplest and most natural
phenomena of the world and the simplest chains of cause and effect that can be observed around
us. The keynote of the little book was that knowledge of nature could be gained only by observation
and experiment, and that for these the ordinary things in the world around us provided ample
material. A few years later he wrote a more advanced volume on the same subject. He had now
found an English name for the German Erdkunde, and his book on Physiography was simply an account
of the leading things and forces of nature. A traveller set down in a foreign land will at
once get into difficulties unless he has provided himself with a guide to the geography, the
manners and customs, and the regulations of the country in which he finds himself. Huxley's
aim was to provide a similar guide to nature; an outline of elementary knowledge of the world
into which we all come as strangers. He wrote of force and energy, of the forms of water, of
heat and cold, of the atmosphere, of winds and tides and weather, and of the main features
of the lives of plants and animals. There was nothing new in what he wrote; he simply took
from the chief sciences their leading principles and elementary facts, and set them forth in
plain and simple language so that all could read and understand. The novelty was that an attempt
should be made to bring these facts within the reach of all. The idea proved extremely infectious;
in Europe and America, in many languages and by many authors, Huxley's main lines were followed,
with the result that a new branch of education, and almost of science, was created.

The body of man and the processes of life, in the earlier part of the century, were almost
as unknown to most people as were the structure of the earth and the great processes of nature.
What was known of human anatomy and physiology was contained in ponderous treatises, written
in difficult and technical language suitable only for students of medicine and doctors. It
was thought to be not only unnecessary but slightly coarse for those not in the profession
to know anything of the viscera of digestion, circulation, and so forth. Huxley laid low this
great superstition by his Elementary Lessons in Physiology, a little volume first published
in 1866, which ran through many editions. In it he wrote primarily for teachers and learners
in boys' and girls' schools, and selected from the great bulk of knowledge and opinion called
human physiology only the important and well-established truths. So successful was he in his
selection that, notwithstanding the immense increase in knowledge since he wrote, the book
still remains an adequate and useful elementary treatise, and by this time must have given
their main knowledge of the human body to hundreds and thousands of readers who otherwise would
have remained ignorant.

The books of which we have been writing were addressed to the general public, but, in addition,
Huxley wrote several, of which three are specially important, for those students who devote
themselves specially to anatomy. The Crayfish, his famous volume in the International Scientific
Series, has been called by Professor Howes, the assistant and successor of Huxley at the Royal
College of Science, "probably the best biological treatise ever written." Many naturalists
have written elaborate monographs on single animals: Lyonet worked for years on the willow
caterpillar, Strauss Durckheim devoted an even minuter attention to the common cockchafer,
and the great Bojanus investigated almost every fibre in the structure of the tortoise. The
volumes produced by these anatomists were valuable and memorable, and occupy an honoured place
in the library of science, but Huxley's aim was wider and greater. He showed how careful study
of one of the commonest and most insignificant of animals leads, step by step, from every-day
knowledge to the widest generalisations and the most difficult problems of zoölogy. He made
study of a single creature an introduction to a whole science, and taught students to regard
any form of life not merely as a highly complicated and deeply interesting anatomical study,
but as a creature that is only one out of an innumerable host of living things, every fibre
in its body, every rhythm in its functions proclaiming the degree and nature of its relationship
to other animals. R. Louis Stevenson, writing of his native town, tried to give "a vision of
Edinburgh, not as you see her, in the midst of a little neighbourhood, but as a boss upon the
round world, with all Europe and the deep sea for her surroundings. For every place is a centre
to the earth, whence highways radiate, or ships set sail for foreign ports; the limit of a
parish is not more imaginary than the frontier of an empire." It is this wider sweep, this
attempt to see and to teach not merely the facts about things but the relations of these facts
to the similar facts in other things, that makes the difference between the new knowledge and
the old. The questions to be asked and answered are not merely, What are the structures in
this animal? but, How and why do they come to be what they are? Huxley was a ruthless enemy
of the books and teachers which or who made the mere acquisition of details of knowledge their
chief object.

Huxley himself admitted his difficulty in remembering apparently meaningless facts, and occasionally
aided his memory by inventing for them a humorous significance. Professor Howes relates a story
of this kind. While examining the papers of candidates for some examination, Huxley came across
one in which the mitral or bicuspid valve of the heart was erroneously described as being placed
in the right cavity. "Poor little beggar," said Huxley; "I never could get them myself until
I reflected that a bishop could never be in the right." This insistence on the uselessness
of formal knowledge applied only to those who were being taught or who were learning from books
or lectures. Of the value and discipline of knowledge of facts gained at first hand from objects
themselves either in original investigation or with the aid of books, Huxley had the highest
possible opinion. By such a method of work alone he believed it possible to distinguish what
we believe on authority from what we have convinced ourselves to be true, and, as we shall
see later, he regarded it as the most important duty of a man to have acquired the habit of
classifying the mass of ideas in his brain into those which he knew and those which he thought
to be true from having read or heard or imagined them.

The two other of the three great treatises for anatomical students are the Manual of the Anatomy
of Vertebrated Animals, published in 1871, and the Manual of the Anatomy of Invertebrated Animals,
published in 1877. Of these two volumes it is sufficient to say that they formed the chief
introduction to the study of animal zoölogy for many years, and that a large number of the
best-known zoölogists of the end of this century received from them their first instruction
in the science. As text-books they have been superseded lately by larger volumes in which there
is found more space for some of the recent advances in knowledge, especially comparative embryology,
and the more intricate knowledge of the structure of the soft parts of marine invertebrates
made possible by the newer and more successful methods of preserving delicate tissues. Just
before Huxley ceased his regular work as a teacher at the Royal College of Science, there arrived
a series of marine embryos, beautifully preserved and prepared for microscopic work by the
zoölogists at the International Zoölogical Station at Naples. Huxley is reported to have exclaimed
at their beauty, and to have said: "You young men cannot realise your advantages; you have
brought to you for study at your leisure in London, creatures that I had to lash my microscope
to the mast to get a glimpse of." Huxley's books were written for students with fewer advantages,
and, naturally, laid more stress on the harder skeletal parts and such structures as could
be more easily preserved; but with this inevitable limitation they still serve as luminous
and comprehensive guides to the subjects of which they treat. There is no doubt but that if
he had been a younger man when the new technical methods made their appearance, he would have
adopted them and their results in his volumes. One of the first great pieces of work which
utilised methods more like those now used in all laboratories than those employed during the
greater part of Huxley's life as a teacher was the classical investigation by Van Beneden into
the changes in the egg of Ascaris which accompany the process of fertilisation. When Huxley
read the memoir he exclaimed, "All this by the use of glacial acetic acid--is it possible!"
At once, Professor Howes relates, he repeated the whole investigation himself, and, when satisfied,
declared that the "history of the histological investigation of the future would be the history
of its methods." Not only have the chemical substances used in preparing tissues for examination
greatly increased since Huxley's time as an active worker, but a very important method of investigation
has come into general use. In Huxley's time tissues or animals too large or too opaque to be
examined microscopically as whole structures were either teased by needles or were cut with
a razor by hand into comparatively thick slices. The process of cutting, however practised
the operator, was tedious and uncertain, and it was almost impossible to cut a piece of tissue
into a series of thin slices without losing or destroying considerable portions. Microtomes,
with various accessory mechanical appliances, have now been invented, and by means of these
not only are slices of great tenuity made with ease, but there is little difficulty in cutting
the most delicate organism into a ribbon of consecutive slices. Such new methods have made
almost a revolution in the study of zoölogy, particularly of the lower forms of life and of
the embryonic stages of higher animals, and books written before these methods became common
have naturally been superseded.

Huxley did far more for the teaching of science than the preparation of books, however useful
these were. He was the practical inventor of the laboratory system of teaching zoölogical science,
and all over the world the methods invented by him have been adopted in university laboratories
and technical schools. He had always declared that since zoölogy was a physical science, the
method of studying it must needs be analogous to that which is followed in other physical sciences.
The great and obvious difficulty in the practical teaching of biology appeared to be the immense
number of different kinds of animals and plants in existence. A human life would not suffice
for the examination of a hundredth part of these. Huxley met the difficulty by the "type" system.

The type system in itself was not absolutely new. Rolleston, the Linacre professor at Oxford,
in his Forms of Animal Life had devised the method of teaching comparative anatomy by the study
of a graded series of animals. But his method depended on the existence of a series of dissections
and preparations made by a skilled craftsman; the tradition of teaching by authority instead
of by investigation was maintained, although the authority of books and lectures was aided
by museum specimens in glass bottles, the actual basis of the book being a series of dissections
prepared by Mr. Charles Robertson, Rolleston's laboratory assistant, for the great International
Exhibition of 1861. The authorities of Huxley's students were to be found in nature itself.
The green scum from the nearest gutter, a handful of weed from a pond, a bean-plant, some fresh-water
mud, a frog, and a pigeon were the ultimate authorities of his course. His students were taught
how to observe them, and how to draw and record their observations. However familiar the objects,
each student had to verify every fact afresh for himself. The business of the teacher was explanation
of the methods of verification, insistence on the accomplishment of verification. It was a
training in the immemorial attitude of the scientific mind, codified by Huxley and made an
integral part in national education.

As a matter of fact it was comparatively late in his life as a teacher
that Huxley had complete opportunity for putting into practice his
scheme for the laboratory teaching of biology. In 1854 there was no
laboratory attached to the Natural History Department of the School of
Mines. Lectures alone were given, and the only opportunity the student
had of any practical acquaintance with the facts was in a short
interview with the professor at the lecture table after the lecture.
This condition continued practically to 1872. But a few years before
that Huxley and his colleagues got up a kind of pronunciamento
deploring the existing state of affairs. In his evidence before the
Royal Commission of 1870 Huxley said: "There is a complete want in the
School of Mines, as it now exists, of any means of teaching several of
the subjects practically. For example, I am set there to teach natural
history without a biological laboratory and without the means of
shewing a single dissection." Against strong internal opposition and
at considerable pecuniary loss Huxley and some of his colleagues
succeeded, in 1872, in getting the School of Mines transferred to
South Kensington, where it became the Royal College of Science. For
the first course of instruction given in the new buildings, Huxley
obtained the aid of Prof. M. Foster, Prof. Rutherford, and Prof. Ray
Lankester. The laboratory course originated by Huxley and shaped by
him with these three distinguished assistants became the model of the
regular courses given subsequently, and, with various slight
modifications, has since been adopted almost universally. We dissect a
     starfish, an earthworm, a snail, a squid, and a fresh-water
     mussel. We examine a lobster and a crayfish, and a black beetle.

Huxley himself was originally a medical man; all through his life he was chiefly interested
in the biological sciences which underlie a scientific practice of medicine, and as teacher
and examiner he had much to do with the shaping of medical education in London. Acting in various
public capacities, as a member of commissions dealing with medical education, or as a witness
before them, in magazine articles and in public speeches he made many contributions to the
problems to be faced in medical education. Some of these related to the conditions peculiar
to medical training in London. In the greatest city of the world there was during Huxley's
life and there is still nothing comparable with the great universities of Europe and America,
of Scotland and Ireland. Some dozen hospitals, supported partly by endowments, partly by charities,
attempt each to maintain a complete, independent medical school. As the requirements of medical
education in staff, laboratories, and general equipment has advanced, these hospitals have
made heroic efforts to advance with them. Notwithstanding the zeal and public spirit of the
staff and managers of the hospitals, this want of system has naturally resulted in a multiplication
of inefficient institutions and a number of makeshift arrangements. Huxley repeatedly urged
the concentration of all this diffuse effort into a few centres, but this inevitable reform
has not yet become possible.

A second important consideration, and one that has a much wider application, relates to the
kind of person by whom the scientific sides of medical teaching should be given. Primitively,
all the instruction to medical students was given by those actually engaged in the practice
of medicine. Huxley was strongly of the opinion that the teachers of anatomy, physiology, chemistry,
and so forth, should be specialists devoted to these subjects for life, and not merely surgeons
and physicians who engaged in teaching until their practice grew sufficiently to monopolise
their attention. It was to those who made the latter choice that he would entrust the teaching
of the sciences underlying medicine; partly because from the mere mechanical reason of time
these men would be better able to keep pace with the most recent advances in knowledge, and
partly because their teaching would be stimulated by their own work in advancing knowledge.
In this great matter the world is rapidly advancing towards the standard of Huxley; as each
new appointment is made it becomes more and more probable that the man chosen will be a teacher
and investigator rather than a practitioner.

In another general question of the politics of medical education Huxley took a strong line,
and the tendency of change is toward his view. One of the first results of the awakening of
medical education in the middle of this century was a tendency to throw an almost intolerable
burden of new subjects upon the medical student. In the revolt from the old apprenticeship
system, in which the student, from the very first, gave his chief attention to practice, and
was left almost to himself to pick up a scanty knowledge of the principles and theories underlying
his profession, the pendulum swung too far the other way, and there was almost no branch of
the biological and physical sciences in which he was not expected to go through a severe training.
On the old system the greater part of his time was spent in the wards of the hospital; on the
new system it was only at an advanced stage of his career that he entered the wards at all,
a great part of his time and energy being spent in the purely scientific teaching of the medical
college. Huxley, although he had largely aided in the overthrow of the happy-go-lucky older
system, of which Mr. Bob Sawyer was no exaggerated type, was equally severe on the reckless
extensions of the new system. "If I were a despot," he said, "I would cut down the theoretical
branches to a very considerable extent." He would discard comparative anatomy and botany, materia
medica, and chemistry and physics, except as applied to physiology, from the medical student's
course. At first sight, this seems a hard saying, but it is to be remembered that at that time
the normal curriculum of a medical student lasted only four years, a space of time barely sufficient
for the necessary minimum of purely medical and surgical work. Huxley's view was that chemistry
and physics, botany and zoölogy, should be part of the general education, not of the special
medical education; he wished students to spend one or two years after their ordinary career
at school in work on these elementary scientific subjects, and then to begin their medical
course free from the burden of extra-professional subjects. With certain limits due to the
different local conditions in different teaching centres Huxley's system is being adopted.
In most cases the authorities in medical education are unable to leave the whole responsibility
of the elementary education in science to the schools from which medical students come, as
the conditions under which scientific subjects are still taught in schools leave much to be
desired. The average length of the medical curriculum has been extended and the elementary
scientific subjects are taken first, sometimes at the medical colleges, sometimes in the scientific
departments of universities. The interesting general point of view is that Huxley, although
himself a biologist and teacher of biology, took too broad an outlook on the general policy
of education to insist upon his own subject to the detriment of the precise practical objects
of the training of medical students.

In the days of Huxley's greatest activity, while by the natural force of events and by his
special efforts science was becoming more and more recognised as a necessary and important
branch of general education, the cry was raised against it that scientific education was not
capable of giving what is called culture. A scientific man was regarded as a mere scientific
specialist, and science was considered to have no place in, and in fact to be an enemy of,
"liberal education." In 1880, at Birmingham, Huxley attacked this view in a speech delivered
at the opening of the Mason College. Sir Josiah Mason, the benevolent founder of that great
institution, had made it one of the conditions of the foundation that the College should make
no provision for "mere literary instruction and education." This gave Huxley a text for raising
the whole question of the relation of science to culture.

He quoted from Matthew Arnold, then in the zenith of his fame as a chief apostle of culture,
and shewed that there were two propositions involved in the "literary" view of culture. The
first was that a "criticism of life" was the essence of culture; the second, that literature
contained the materials which sufficed for the construction of such a criticism. Against the
second proposition he urged in the first place that it was self-evident that after having learned
all that Greek, Roman, and Eastern antiquity have thought and said, and all that modern literature
has to tell us, it was still necessary to have a deeper foundation for criticism of life. An
acquaintance with what physical science had done, particularly in later years, was as necessary
to criticism of life as any of the literary materials. Next, following the biological habit
of examining anything by studying its development, he shewed how the connection between "culture"
and study of classical literature had come into existence. A liberal education was possible
only through study of the language in which all or nearly all the materials for it were written.
With the changes produced by the Renascence there came a battle between Latin and Greek, and
Greek came to be part of a liberal education. Later on, there came a similar battle between
the classical and modern languages, and now the modern languages have included and absorbed
all the necessary material for knowledge and criticism. Those who cling to classics as the
basis of culture and education are clinging to old weapons long after these have ceased to
be effective, simply because at one time in history only these weapons were available in the
struggle for knowledge. But he was keenly interested in all the larger problems of general,
university, and technical education, and he played a great part in shaping the lines upon which
these problems have been solved in England.

In the years immediately before 1870, all England was wrestling with the great problem of elementary
education, in the arrangements for which it was far behind not only the leading European countries
but even its sister-kingdom, Scotland. In 1870 there came into operation an Act of Parliament
for the regulation of elementary education under the supervision of locally elected school
boards. Hitherto elementary education had been controlled by the Established Church, and by
other denominational religious bodies, and the quality and quantity of the instruction provided,
for financial and various other reasons, had been extremely unsatisfactory. But a long and
furious battle had raged around the religious question; elementary education was now to be
national, compulsory, and universal; where religious bodies maintained schools that complied
with certain fixed standards of efficiency, attendance of children at these was to be regarded
as satisfactory, and in addition to the ordinary subjects, such theological and religious teaching
as the supporting bodies chose might be added. But in the schools for all and sundry, under
the control of boards representing the whole population, and deriving that part of their income
represented by the subscriptions of the religious bodies in the denominational schools from
public rates, levied on the whole population, was any definite creed to be inculcated? The
extreme Church party, perhaps naturally, held that the creed established by law in the land
should be taught in these new schools; extreme supporters of other creeds, and a majority of
ordinary people of all creeds or of no creeds, objected to a new establishment of a sectarian
doctrine, even though that sectarian doctrine were the doctrine of the national religion. The
actual value of any clause, however it may appear to be a fair compromise, depends on the spirit
in which it is practically interpreted, and no sooner had the Act been passed than the battle
was renewed again over the interpretation of the clause. Many of the Church controversialists
held that the liberal or more advanced party intended to exclude all reference to the Bible
or to religion, on the plea that some sect could be found to which the most attenuated expression
of religion would appear to be against the plain meaning of the clause, and Huxley, who had
been in the forefront of the controversy, and who was a candidate for the first London School
Board, was decried as an enemy of the Bible and of all religion and morality because he had
expressed what he called a secular interpretation of the clause. In an article published in
the Contemporary Review immediately after the election, Huxley explained precisely what he
took the clause to mean, and, afterwards, at all events during the existence of the Board to
which he was elected, succeeded in carrying out his intentions in the main.

His first general point was to deprecate the action of those extremists of both sides who tried
to make the education of children a mere battle-ground of religious dogmas. He then laid down
what he conceived to be the lines of most general utility upon which, under the provisions
of the Act, the education of children should be conducted.

This, humanitarianism as it was, was not the mere emotional sentiment of the typical humanitarian;
he went on to give the soundest practical reasons for physical development.

He wished to see physical training put on the same system.

The second great point upon which he laid stress was the necessity of providing training in
domestic economy, cookery, and other household accomplishments, for poor girls. These demands
of Huxley seem simple and obvious, now that by his efforts and the efforts of others they have
been accomplished, but in England, even thirty years ago, it required more than an ordinary
prevision and boldness to insist upon them.

Huxley passed next to the burning question of the time. He treated it in the broadest and least
sectarian spirit.

He then proceeded to point out the distinction between the affection which is called religion,
and the science which is called theology, and, without entering into the question as to whether
the latter were or were not a true science, he insisted on the danger of a confusion between
the two.

He went on to explain that, although he had always been strongly in favour of secular education,
by that term he meant only education without theology, and he praised the English Bible in
language as noble as has ever been applied to it by the most ardent of theologians.

Lastly, he laid down the lines of the general education to be given. He pointed out that already
in the existing schools a very considerable burden of work was imposed on the children in the
form of catechism, lists of the kings of Israel, geography of Palestine, and that when these
fantastic modes of education had been eliminated there was plenty of time and energy to be
employed. The instruction in physical training was more than half play; that in the domestic
subjects had an engrossing interest of its own. He proposed, first, the necessary discipline
in the means for acquiring knowledge, the tools for employing it, that is to say, reading,
writing, and arithmetic.

In most respects the progress of primary education in England has been a continuous progress
along these lines suggested by Huxley, and he may be regarded as in this fashion one of the
great shapers of the destinies of his race, for nothing can have a bearing more important on
the character and fate of a race than the manner of training provided for the masses of individuals
composing it. It is only in the matter of the religious instruction that the course of events
has been widely different from the neutral exposition of the Bible as suggested by him. In
1870 a great majority of the people of England who reflected upon the matter at all, and all
those who accepted current ideas without reflection, accepted the Bible as an inspired, direct,
and simple authority on all great matters of faith and morality. Therefore, when Huxley, as
by far the most important man among those who advocated a secular education, was an advocate
and not in the least an opponent of Bible teaching, they were well content to let the matter
rest. There were, it is true, a certain number of zealots who entered the boards with the avowed
purpose, on the one hand, of getting as much dogmatic teaching and interpretation added as
it might be possible to smuggle in, and, on the other, to reduce the simplest Bible teaching
to a minimum. But the vast majority of persons were out of sympathy with these fanaticisms.
Since 1870, however, a gradual change has occurred in the attitude of the majority to the Bible
in England. The growth of the new criticism and of knowledge of it has produced the result
that now only a small minority of reflecting people in England accept the Bible in the old
simple way; the majority thinks that it requires interpretation and explanation by the authority
of the Church. And so a new battle over dogma has begun; moderate Church people no longer accept
the compromise of Huxley, but strive for an interpretation which must be dogmatic, and there
is a new dispute as to what may be regarded as undenominational religion. When a majority of
reasonable persons accepted Huxley's suggestions of simple Bible teaching they did so not because
they believed, as he did, that the Bible was simply great literature, great tradition, and
great morality, but because they believed it to be direct, inspired authority. It is a curious
coincidence that Huxley himself did so much to spread knowledge of the new criticism, and that
a first result of this diffusion was to overthrow the compromise arranged largely by his influence,
and which for many years provided a middle way in which sensible persons avoided the extremes
of theological and anti-theological zealots.

Early in the course of his career as a member of the London School Board, Huxley crystallised
his views as to the general policy of education in a phrase which perhaps has done more than
any other phrase ever invented to bring home to men's minds the ideal of a national system
of education. "I conceive it to be our duty," he said, "to make a ladder from the gutter to
the university along which any child may climb." We have seen the nature of his views as to
the lowest rungs of this ladder; we may now turn to his work and views as to the higher stages.
He expressed these views in occasional speeches and articles, and he had many important opportunities
in aiding to carry them into actual practice. He was a member of a number of important Royal
Commissions: Commission on the Royal College of Science for Ireland, 1866; Commission on Science
and Art Instruction in Ireland, 1868; Royal Commission on Scientific Instruction and the Advancement
of Science, 1870-75; Royal Commission to enquire into the Universities of Scotland, 1876-78;
Royal Commission on the Medical Acts, 1881-82. From the beginning, he was closely associated
with the Science and Art Department, the operations of which threw a web of education, intermediate
between primary and university education, all over Britain. A number of the teachers under
that department were trained by him, and as examiner to the department he took the greatest
care to reduce to a minimum the evils necessarily attendant on the mode of payment by results.
A certain number of teachers made it their chief effort to secure the largest possible number
of grants. Huxley regarded these as poachers of the worst kind, and did all he could to foil
them. He did all he could to promote systematic practical instruction in the classes, and to
aid teachers who desired to learn their business more thoroughly. He insisted again and again
upon the popular nature of the classes; their great advantage was that they were accessible
to all who chose to avail themselves of them after working hours, and that they brought the
means of instruction to the doors of the factories and workshops. The subjects which he considered
of most importance were foreign languages, drawing, and elementary sciences, and he wished
them to be used first of all by those who were handicraftsmen and who therefore left the elementary
schools at the age of thirteen or fourteen.

In a lecture given at the formal opening of the Johns Hopkins University at Baltimore in 1876,
and in a Rectorial address to the University of Aberdeen two years earlier, Huxley laid down
the general lines of university education as he conceived it. He began by supposing that a
good primary education had already been received.

He had not much to say for secondary or intermediate education, partly because at that time,
in England at least, the secondary schools were in a hopeless state of incapacity, and differed
from primary schools not only in their greater expense, their adaptation to the class-spirit
which demanded the separation of the boys of the upper and middle classes from those in the
lower ranks of society, but chiefly in the futility of the education given at the majority
of them. But where intermediate schools did exist, he demanded that they should keep on the
same wide track of general knowledge, not sacrificing one branch of knowledge for another.
He held that the elementary instruction to which he had referred embraced all the real kinds
of knowledge and mental activity possible to man. The university could add no new fields of
mental activity, no new departments of knowledge.

Early in the seventies the problems connected with what is called technical education became
prominent in the minds of the most far-seeing of this nation. It became plain that England
was not advancing with the same strides as some other nations in arts and manufactures, and
the most obvious difference between England and the rivals whose advance was causing anxiety
lay in her deficiency in education. Science or knowledge of nature lies at the root of all
the arts and manufactures, and it was our relation to scientific teaching and research that
required investigation. Naturally enough, Huxley took the keenest interest in this question
and made large contributions to its solution, contributions which have not yet been put completely
into operation. He insisted most strongly upon a point that we as a nation have not yet completely
grasped. There is no difference between applied science and any other kind of science. The
chemistry of manufactures, the physics of industrial machinery, the biology of agriculture
and of fisheries, are not different from other chemistries and physics and biologies. They
are merely special cases of the application of the same general fund of knowledge, and the
same general principles of investigation. Huxley wished that the term "applied science" had
never been invented, or that it could be destroyed. A man cannot study the chemistry of dyeing
or make advances in it unless he be a thoroughly trained chemist in the full sense of the word.
More than that, many of the greatest discoveries, using the word "great" as applied to commercial
advantage rather than to abstract progress in knowledge, have been made by those who were pursuing
research for its own sake rather than for any immediate commercial advantage to be derived
from it. Hence he regarded it of vital importance, from the mere point of view of the prosperity
of the country, that there should be a sufficiently large number of scientific men provided
with the means for research in the shape of income and appliances. The most immediately utilitarian
fashion for the nation to encourage science, was to encourage science in its highest and most
advanced aspects. This meant the endowment of research and the support of universities and
other institutions in which research might be conducted, and Huxley strove unceasingly for
the benefit of all such great organisations. One of the last public occasions of his life was
his appearance as leader of a deputation to urge upon the government the formation of a real
university in London which should unite the scattered institutions of that great city and promote
the highest spheres of the pursuit of knowledge. He held the view, strongly, that a useful
combination was to be made by uniting the functions of teaching and investigation. A teacher
taught better when his mind was kept fresh by the advances he himself was making, and an investigator,
by having a moderate amount of teaching to do, gained from the need of forcing his mind from
time to time to take broad surveys of the whole field a part of which he was engaged in tilling.
The first great object, then, in promoting science so as to reap the most direct national advantage
from it, was to encourage science in its highest and widest forms. It cannot be said that England
has yet learned this lesson. The number of institutions in Germany where advanced investigation
is continuously pursued is absolutely and relatively greater than the number in England.

The second part of technical education is that to which general attention is more commonly
given. It consists of the kind of training to be given to the great army of workers in the
country. In regard to this, as in regard to research work, Huxley insisted on the absence of
distinction between technical or applied science and science without such a limiting prefix.
So far as technical instruction meant definite teaching of a handicraft, he believed that it
could be learned satisfactorily only in the workshop itself.

He compared his own handicraft as an anatomist with the handicrafts of artisans, and declared
that the kind of preliminary training he would choose for himself or for his pupils was precisely
the training he would provide for them. He did not wish that one who proposed to be a biologist
should learn dissection during his school-days; that would come later, and, in the meantime,
broader and deeper foundations had to be laid. These were the ordinary subjects of a liberal
education: physical training, drawing, and a little music, French and German, the ordinary
English subjects, and the elements of physical science. Against such costly schemes of education
for the whole population of a nation, many objections have been urged. Of these, perhaps the
chief is that the majority of human beings even in the most civilised country are not capable
of profiting by or taking an interest in, or certainly of advancing far in, most subjects.
Huxley met such objections in a spirit of the widest statesmanship. There were two reasons
for making the general education of all what he called a liberal education. The first was that,
even in a liberal education such as he advocated, no subject was pursued beyond the broad elementary
stages, and that during the early years of life, while the framework and the character were
forming, it was of first-rate importance not to stunt either by lack of material. The second
great principle was that until any individual had had the opportunity, it was impossible to
say whether or no he would profit much or little, and the gain to the whole nation by not missing
any of those who were born with unusual natural capacity was more than worth the cost of affording
opportunities to all.

The beginning and end of the whole matter was that a national system of education was above
all things a "capacity-catcher," designed to secure against the loss of the incalculable advantages
to be gained by cultivating the best genius born in the land.

A great body of fine work in science and literature has been produced by persons who may be
described as typically academic. Such persons confine their interest in life within the boundaries
of their own immediate pursuits; they are absorbed so completely by their avocations that the
hurly-burly of the world seems needlessly distracting and a little vulgar. No doubt the thoughts
of those who cry out most loudly against disturbance by the intruding claims of the world are,
for the most part, hardly worth disturbing; the attitude to extrinsic things of those who are
absorbed by their work is aped not infrequently by those who are absorbed only in themselves.
None the less it is important to recognise that a genuine aversion from affairs is characteristic
of many fine original investigators, and it is on such persons that the idea of the simple
and childlike nature of philosophers, a simplicity often reaching real incapacity for the affairs
of life, is based. There was no trace of this natural isolation in the character of Huxley.
He was not only a serious student of science but a keen and zealous citizen, eagerly conscious
of the great social and political movements around him, with the full sense that he was a man
living in society with other men and that there was a business of life as well as a business
of the laboratory. We have seen with what zeal he brought his trained intelligence to bear
not only on his own province of scientific education, but on the wider problems of general
education, and yet the time he gave to these was only a small part of that which he spared
from abstract science for affairs. In scientific institutions as in others, there is always
a considerable amount of business, involving the management of men and the management of money,
and Huxley's readiness and aptitude led to his being largely occupied with these. For many
years he was Dean of the Royal College of Science at South Kensington, and for a considerable
time he served the Geological Society and the Royal Society as secretary. In all these posts,
Huxley displayed great capacity as a leader of men and as a manager of affairs, and contributed
largely to the successful working of the institutions which he served.

In England, when troublesome questions press and seem to call for new legislation, it frequently
happens that the collection and sifting of evidence preliminary to legislation is a task for
which the methods and routine of Parliament are unsuitable. The Queen, acting through her responsible
advisers, appoints a Royal Commission, consisting of a small body of men, to which is entrusted
the preliminary task of collecting and weighing evidence, or of making recommendations on evidence
already collected. To such honourable posts Huxley was repeatedly called. He served on the
following Commissions: 1. Royal Commission on the Operation of Acts relating to Trawling for
Herrings on the Coast of Scotland, 1862. 2. Royal Commission to Enquire into the Sea Fisheries
of the United Kingdom, 1864-65. 3. Commission on the Royal College of Science for Ireland,
1866. 4. Commission on Science and Art Instruction in Ireland, 1868. 5. Royal Commission on
the Administration and Operation of the Contagious Diseases Acts, 1870-71. 6. 7. Royal Commission
on the Practice of Subjecting Live Animals to Experiments for Scientific Purposes, 1876. 8.
Royal Commission to Enquire into the Universities of Scotland, 1876-78. 9. Royal Commission
on the Medical Acts, 1881-82. 10. Royal Commission on Trawl, Net, and Beam-Trawl Fishing, 1884.
This is a great record for any man, especially for one in whose life work of this kind was
outside his habitual occupation. It was no doubt in special recognition of the important services
given his country by such work, as well as in general recognition of his distinction in science,
that he was sworn a member of Her Majesty's Privy Council, so attaining a distinction more
coveted than the peerage.

The voluminous reports of the Commissions shew that Huxley, very far from being a silent member
of them, took a large part in framing the questions which served to direct witnesses into useful
lines, and that his clear and orderly habit of thought proved as useful in the elucidation
of these subjects as they were in matters of scientific research. For the most part, the problems
brought before the Commissions have lost their interest for readers of later years, but there
are matters still unsettled on which the opinions of Huxley as expressed then remain useful.
The Commission of 1876, for instance, dealt with vivisection, a matter on which the conscience
of the ordinary man is not yet at rest. Although Huxley was intensely interested in the problems
of physiology, and although at one time he hoped to devote his life to them, fortune directed
otherwise, and the investigations for which he is famed did not in any way involve the kind
of experiments known as vivisection. The greater part of his work was upon the remains of creatures
dead for thousands of years or upon the lifeless skeletons of modern forms. On the other hand,
he was keenly interested in the progress of physiological science, he had personal acquaintance
with most of the distinguished workers in physiology of his time at home and abroad, and from
this knowledge of their character and aspirations he was well able to judge of the wholesale
and reckless accusations brought against them. He was a man full of the finest humanity, with
an unusual devotion to animals as pets, and with knowledge of the degrees of pain involved
in experimenting on living creatures. He insisted strongly on the necessity of limiting or
abolishing pain, wherever it was possible; he agreed that any experiments which involved pain
should not be permitted for the purpose of demonstrating known elementary facts. But, from
his knowledge of the incalculable benefits which had been gained from experimental research,
and from his confidence in those who conducted it, he declined to give support to the misguided
fanatics who desired to make such experimental research a penal offence, even when conducted
by the most skilled experts for the highest purposes.

Huxley contributed his share to the great questions which agitated the public not only by service
on Commissions, but by delivering a large number of public addresses and writing a large number
of essays on topics of special interest. Much of his work on scientific, educational, and general
subjects took its first shape in the form of addresses given to some public audience. University
audiences in England, Scotland, and America were familiar to him, and from time to time he
addressed large gatherings of a mixed character. But probably his favourite audience was composed
of working men, and he had the greatest respect for the intelligence and sympathy of hearers
who like himself passed the greater portion of their time in hard work. Professor Howes, his
pupil, friend, and successor, writes of him:

     "He gave workmen of his best. The substance of Man's Place in
     Nature, one of the most successful and popular of his writings,
     and of his Crayfish, perhaps the most perfect zoölogical
     treatise ever published, was first communicated to them. In one
     of the last communications I had with him, I asked his views as
     to the desirability of discontinuing the workmen's lectures at
     Jermyn Street, since the development of workmen's colleges and
     institutes was regarded by some as rendering their continuance
     unnecessary. He replied, almost with indignation, 'With our
     central situation and resources we ought to be in a position to
     give the workmen that which they cannot get elsewhere,' adding
     that he would deeply deplore any such discontinuance."

Huxley had no natural facility for speech. He tells us that at first he disliked it, and that
he had a firm conviction that he would break down every time he opened his mouth. The only
two possible faults of a public speaker which he believed himself to be without, were "talking
at random and indulging in rhetoric." With practice, he lost this earlier hesitancy, and before
long became known as one of the finest speakers of his time. Certain natural gifts aided him;
his well-set figure and strong features, of which the piercing eyes and firm, trap-like mouth
were the most striking, riveted attention, while his voice had a wide range and was beautifully
modulated. But it was above all things the matter and not the manner of his speech that commanded
success. He cared little or nothing for the impression he might make--everything for the ideas
which he wished to convey. He was concerned only to set forth these ideas in their clear and
logical order, convinced in his own mind that, were the facts as he knew them placed before
the minds of his hearers, only one possible result could follow. The facts had convinced him:
they must equally convince any honest and intelligent person placed in possession of them.
He had not the smallest intention of overbearing by authority or of swaying by skilfully aroused
emotion. Such weapons of the orator seemed to him dishonest in the speaker and most perilous
to the audience. For him, speaking on any subject was merely a branch of scientific exposition;
when emotion was to be roused or enthusiasm to be kindled the inspiration was to come from
the facts and not from the orator. The arts he allowed himself were those common to all forms
of exposition; he would explain a novel set of ideas by comparison with simpler ideas obvious
to all his listeners; and he sought to arrest attention or to drive home a conclusion by some
brilliant phrase that bit into the memory. These two arts, the art of the phrase-maker and
the art of explaining by vivacious and simple comparison, he brought to a high perfection.
The fundamental method of his exposition was simply the method of comparative anatomy, the
result of a habit of thinking which makes it impossible to have any set of ideas brought into
the mind without an immediate, almost unconscious, overhauling of the memory for any other
ideas at all congruous. In a strict scientific exposition Huxley would choose from the multitude
of possible comparisons that most simple and most intelligible to his audience; when in a lighter
vein, he gave play to a natural humour in his choice. Instances of his method of exposition
by comparison abound in his published addresses. Let us take one or two. In the course of an
address to a large mixed audience so early in his public career as 1854, in making plain to
them the proposition, somewhat novel for those days, that the natural history sciences had
an educational value, he explained that the faculties employed in that subject were simply
those of the common sense of every-day life.

In one of his addresses to working men on Man's Place in Nature he shewed that from time to
time in the history of the world average persons of the human race have accepted some kind
of answer to the insoluble riddles of existence, but that from time to time the race has outgrown
the current answers, ceasing to take comfort from them.

     "In a well-worn metaphor a parallel is drawn between the life of
     man and the metamorphosis of a caterpillar into a butterfly; but
     the comparison may be more just as well as more novel, if for its
     former term we take the mental progress of the race. History
     shews that the human mind, fed by constant accessions of
     knowledge, periodically grows too large for its theoretical
     coverings, and bursts them asunder to appear in new habiliments,
     as the feeding and growing grub, at intervals, casts its too
     narrow skin and assumes another, itself but temporary. Truly, the
     imago state of man seems to be terribly distant, but every moult
     is a step gained, and of such there have been many."

As another instance, the following from his address on a "Liberal Education" may be taken.
He had been discussing the intellectual advantage to be derived from classical studies, and
had been comparing, to the disadvantage of the latter, the intellectual discipline which might
be got from a study of fossils with the discipline claimed by the ordinary experts upon education
to be the results of classical training. He wished to anticipate the obvious objection to his
argument: that the subject-matter of palæontology had no direct bearing on human interests
and emotions, while the classical authors were rich in the finest humanity.

The last example we shall take comes from a speech made after dinner at a much later period
of his life. The occasion was a complimentary dinner to the editor of the English scientific
periodical Nature, which had been for long the leading semi-popular journal of English science.
Huxley, in proposing the health of the editor, declared that he did not quite know how to say
what he wanted to say, but that he would explain by a story.

     "A poor woman," he said, "was brought into one of our hospitals
     in a shockingly battered condition. When her wounds had been
     cleaned and sewn, and when the care of the surgeons had restored
     her to comparative comfort, someone said to her, 'I am afraid
     your husband has been knocking you about.' 'What!' she said, 'my
     Jim bash me? no it worn't by him; he's always been more like a
     friend to me than a husband.' That," went on Huxley, "is what I
     wish to say about our guest of to-night. In all our intercourse
     with him he has been more like a friend to us than an editor."

It is impossible to make a real distinction between the essays and the addresses of Huxley.
Many of the most important of his addresses, as for instance his Romanes lecture on "Evolution
and Ethics," were written and printed before he delivered them; most of them were carefully
prepared, and revised and printed after delivery. It is therefore not remarkable to find a
close resemblance in matter and manner between what was originally spoken and what was published
without a vivâ voce delivery. Everything that may be said of the one set applies with an equal
fitness to the other set. There are many who assert with confidence that Huxley is one of the
great masters of English, and although an examination of this opinion involves discussion of
the elusive quality termed "style," it is necessary to attempt it.

In that totality which consists of an essay or of a printed address, and of which we are, most
of us, ready to discuss the style, there are at least three separable elements, each contributing
after its kind to the effect on our minds. When the general effect is to throw us into a state
of pleasure, it is our habit to qualify the style with an adjective of praise, selecting the
adjective according to the degree of restraint or of enthusiasm with which we are accustomed
to express our emotions; when the general effect is to throw us into a condition of boredom
or of distaste, we make a corresponding choice of appropriate adjectives. When we wish to be
specially critical we pass a little way beyond an empirical judgment by pleasure or annoyance
and take into account the degree of harmony between matter and manner. In such a frame of mind
we discount the pleasure obtained from verbal quips, if these occur in a grave exposition,
or that received from solemn and stately harmonies of language if these be employed on insignificant
trifles. In a condition of unusual critical exaltation we may even admit an excellence of language
and phrasing though these have as their contents ideas which we dislike, or press towards conclusions
from which we dissent. But if we desire to make an exact appreciation of literary style, it
is requisite to examine separately the three elements which contribute to the effect produced
on us by any written work. These three elements are the words or raw materials employed, the
building of words into sentences and of sentences into paragraphs, which may be designated
as the architectural work, and, finally, the ideas conveyed, that is to say, the actual object
of the writing.

Huxley was a wide and omnivorous reader, and so had an unusually large fund of words at his
disposal. His writings abound with quotations and allusions taken from the best English authors,
and he had a profound and practical belief in the advantage to be gained from the reading of
English. He had at least a fair knowledge of Greek in the original, and a very wide acquaintance
with Greek phrasing and Greek ideas derived from a study of Greek authors in English versions.
He had an unusual knowledge of Latin, both of the classical writers and of the early Church
fathers and mediæval writers on science and metaphysics. French and German, the two foreign
languages which are a necessary part of the mental equipment of an English-speaking man of
science, were familiar to him. Finally, he had of necessity the wide and varied vocabulary
of the natural and technical sciences at his disposal. From these varied sources, Huxley had
a fund of words, a store of the raw material for expressing ideas, very much greater and more
varied than that in the possession of most writers. You will find in his writings abundant
and omnipresent evidence of the enormous wealth of verbal material ready for the ideas he wished
to set forth: a Greek phrase, a German phrase, a Latin or French phrase, or a group of words
borrowed from one of our own great writers always seemed to await his wish. General Booth's
scheme for elevating the masses by cymbals and dogma was "corybantic Christianity"; to explain
what he thought was the Catholic attitude to the doctrine of evolution, he said it would have
been called damnabilis by Father Suarez, and that he would have meant "not that it was to be
damned, but that it was an active principle capable of damning." Huxley was like a builder
who did not limit himself while he was constructing a house to the ordinary materials from
the most convenient local quarry, but who collected endlessly from all the quarries and brickfields
of the world, and brought to his heaps curiously wrought stones taken from a thousand old buildings.
The swift choice from such a varied material gave an ease and appearance of natural growth
to his work; it produced many surprising and delightful combinations, and it never sacrificed
convenience of expression to exigencies of the materials for expression. On the other hand,
Huxley lacked the sedulous concern for words themselves as things valuable and delightful;
the delight of the craftsman in his tools; the dainty and respectful tribute paid to the words
themselves; in fine, he took little pleasure in words themselves and used them as counters
rather than as coins. Careful reflection and examination will make it plain that the pleasure
to be got from Huxley's style is not due in any large measure to his choice and handling of
words. There is no evidence that he deliberately and fastidiously preferred one word to another,
that he took delight in the savour of individual words, in the placing of plain words in a
context to make them sparkle, in the avoidance of some, in the deliberate preference of other
words,--in fact, in all the conscious tricks and graces that distinguish the lover of words
from their mere user.

A close examination discovers a similar absence from Huxley's work of the second contributory
to the total effect produced by written words. Anything that may be said about absence of artistry
in the use of words, may be said as to absence of artistry in building of the words into sentences,
of the sentences into paragraphs and pages. In the first place, actual infelicities of sentence-building
are frequent. Clause is piled on clause, qualifying phrases are interpolated, the easy devices
of dashes and repetitions are employed wherever convenience suggests them. It is striking to
find how infrequent is the occurrence of passages marked in any way by sonorous rhythm or by
the charm of a measured proportion. The purple passages themselves, those which linger in the
memory and to which the reader turns back, linger by their sense and not by their sound. For
indeed the truth of the matter is that Huxley's style was a style of ideas and not of words
and sentences. The more closely you analyse his pages the more certainly you find that the
secret of the effect produced on you lies in the gradual development of the precise and logical
ideas he wished to convey, in the brilliant accumulation of argument upon argument, in the
logical subordination of details to the whole, in fact, in the arts of the convinced, positive,
and logical thinker, who knew exactly what he meant you to know and who set about telling you
it with the least possible concern for the words he used or for the sentences into which he
formed his words. The ideas and their ordering are the root and the branches, the beginning
and the end of his style. To put it in another way: it would be extremely easy to translate
any of Huxley's writings into French or German, and they would lose extremely little of the
personal flavour of their author. The present writer has just been reading French translations
of Huxley's Physiography and Crayfish, made at different times by different translators. At
first reading it seems almost miraculous how identically the effect produced by the original
is reproduced by the French rendering, but the secret is really no secret at all. Huxley produced
his effects by the ordering of his ideas and not by the ordering of his words. From the technical
point of view of literary craftsmanship, he cannot be assigned a high place; he is one of our
great English writers, but he is not a great writer of English.

The prosecution of independent thinking in any branch of knowledge leads to the ultimate problems
of philosophy. The mathematician cannot ponder over the meaning of his figures, the chemist
that of his reactions, the biologist that of his tissues and cells, the psychologist that of
sensations and conceptions, without being tempted from the comparatively secure ground of observations
and the arrangement of observations into the perilous regions of metaphysics. Most scientific
men return quickly, repelled and perhaps a little scared by the baffling confusion of that
windy region of thought where no rules of logic seem incontrovertible, no conclusions tenable,
and no discussions profitable. Huxley, however, not only entered into metaphysical questions
with enthusiasm, but gave a great deal of time to the study of some of the great metaphysical
writers. His views are to be found scattered through very many of his ordinary scientific writings,
but are specially set forth in a volume on Hume, which he wrote for Mr. John Morley's series,
English Men of Letters, and in essays on Berkeley and on Descartes, all of which are republished
in the Collected Essays. He contrived to preserve, in the most abstrusely philosophical of
these writings, a simplicity and clarity which, although they have not commended him to professional
metaphysicians, make his attitude to the problems of metaphysics extremely intelligible. The
greatest barrier and cause of confusion to the novice in metaphysics is that the writings of
most of the great authorities are overburdened by their great knowledge of the history of philosophy.
Huxley, in a characteristic piece of "parting advice" in the preface to his work on Hume attacked
this confusion between the history of a subject and the subject itself.

     "If it is your desire," he wrote, "to discourse fluently and
     learnedly about philosophical questions, begin with the Ionians
     and work steadily through to the latest new speculative treatise.
     If you have a good memory and a fair knowledge of Greek, Latin,
     French, and German, three or four years spent in this way should
     enable you to attain your object. If, on the contrary, you are
     animated by the much rarer desire for real knowledge; if you want
     to get a clear conception of the deepest problems set before the
     intellect of man, there is no need, so far as I can see, for you
     to go beyond the limits of the English tongue. Indeed, if you are
     pressed for time, three English authors will suffice, namely,
     Berkeley, Hume, and Hobbes."

The first and perhaps the greatest problem in metaphysics can be put very shortly. What is
the reality behind the apparent universe of matter and mind we see around us? Or, rather, what
do we know of that reality? To the uninitiated in philosophical thinking it seems sufficiently
plain that there are two entities, body and soul in man, matter and mind in the whole universe;
and various types of intelligent dogmatists, ranging from the sturdy if somewhat stupid shrewdness
of Dr. Johnson to the agile casuistry of Catholic metaphysicians, have supported this simple
verdict of "common sense." Trouble begins, however, with any attempt to analyse the relations
between what we call "matter" and what we call "mind." It appears, for instance, that what
we call matter we only know in terms of mind. In an essay on Descartes's Discourse on Method,
Huxley explains this by simple examples.

     "I take up a marble and I find it to be a red, round, hard,
     single body. We call the redness, the roundness, the hardness and
     the singleness, 'qualities' of the marble; and it sounds, at
     first, the height of absurdity to say that all these qualities
     are modes of our own consciousness, which cannot even be
     conceived to exist in the marble. But consider the redness, to
     begin with. How does the sensation of redness arise? The waves of
     a certain very attenuated matter, the particles of which are
     vibrating with vast rapidity, but with very different velocities,
     strike upon the marble, and those which vibrate with one
     particular velocity are thrown off from its surface in all
     directions. The optical apparatus of the eye gathers some of
     these together, and gives them such a course that they impinge
     upon the surface of the retina, which is a singularly delicate
     apparatus connected with the terminations of the fibres of the
     optic nerve. The impulses of the attenuated matter, or ether,
     affect this apparatus and the fibres of the optic nerve in a
     certain way; and the change in the fibres of the optic nerve
     produces yet other changes in the brain; and these, in some
     fashion unknown to us, give rise to the feeling, or
     consciousness, of redness. If the marble could remain unchanged,
     and either the vibrations of the ether, or the nature of the
     retina, could be altered, the marble would seem not red, but some
     other colour. There are many people who are what are called
     colour-blind, being unable to distinguish one colour from
     another. Such an one might declare our marble to be green; and
     he would be quite as right in saying that it is green as we are
     in declaring it to be red. But then, as the marble itself cannot
     be both green and red, at the same time, this shews that the
     quality redness must be in our consciousness and not in the
     marble."

In similar fashion he shewed that the hardness, roundness, and even the singleness of the marble
were, so far as we know, states of our consciousness and not in the marble. The argument is
capable of application to all that we call matter, and it thus appears, on analysis, that what
we know of matter is simply a series of states of our consciousness, or mind. In similar fashion,
it turns out that what we call mind is, so far as practical experience goes, always associated
with and dependent on what we call matter. We have no direct knowledge of thinking without
a brain, or of consciousness without a body. Alterations and changes in matter, as for instance
in the tissues and nutrition of the body, are, so far as our experience goes, inseparably associated
with mental operations. In the animal kingdom we see the development of the mind creeping slowly
after the development of the material nervous system, until, in man, the most complex mind
and most complex consciousness of which we have knowledge accompany the most complex body and
brain.

Two great rival solutions to this fundamental problem are Materialism and Idealism. Materialism
supposes that what we call matter is the real substance of the universe, and that mind is merely
one of the forms of its activity. The advance of physical science has done much to make the
materialistic hypothesis more plausible. When matter was believed to be inert, the mere vehicle
or theatre of forces, materialism remained a singularly crude and unsatisfying position. But
now that science has shewn all that we call matter--the most solid metals and the most attenuated
vapours, the most stable and resisting inorganic bodies, and the unstable tissues of living
bodies--to be alike in restless, orderly motion, to be, in fact, motion itself and not the
thing moved, to be changeable but indestructible, passing through phases but eternal, there
seems less difficulty in assuming it to be the ultimate reality, and mind and consciousness
to be its most highly specialised qualities. Huxley, while stating this view plainly enough,
refused to accept it as a legitimate conclusion from the facts.

     "For anything that may be proved to the contrary, there may be a
     real something which is the cause of all our impressions; that
     sensations, though not likenesses, are symbols of that something;
     and that the part of that something, which we call the nervous
     system, is an apparatus for supplying us with a sort of algebra
     of fact, based on these symbols. A brain may be the machinery by
     which the material universe becomes conscious of itself. But it
     is important to notice that, even if this conception of the
     uuiverse and of the relation of consciousness to its other
     components should be true, we should, nevertheless, be still
     bound by the limits of thought, still unable to refute the
     arguments of pure idealism. The more completely the materialistic
     position is admitted, the easier it is to show that the
     idealistic position is unassailable, if the idealist confines
     himself within the limits of positive knowledge."

However we attempt to form what philosophers call "ejects," to imagine that what is really
in our consciousness is really the world outside ourselves, these ejects remain mere phenomena
of our minds. Matter itself and its changes may, in the long run, be but modes of motion, but
"our knowledge of motion is nothing but that of a change in the place and order of our sensations;
just as our knowledge of matter is restricted to those feelings of which we assume it to be
the cause." Huxley's exact position in regard to materialism is most plain in his expositions
of the writings of Berkeley, with whom began in England the greatest movement towards an idealistic
philosophy. And he proceeds at length to explain the immense importance of the truths underlying
Berkeley's position.

Huxley, however, while he opposed a materialistic explanation of the universe with the strength
of exposition and acute reasoning at his disposal, did not pass directly into the other camp
and become a pure idealist.

Hume had written: "What we call a mind is nothing but a heap or collection of different perceptions,
united together by certain relations, and supposed, though falsely, to be endowed with a perfect
simplicity and identity." Here was mind rejected for the same negative reasons as matter, and
Huxley was as ready to point out that while we can know nothing of the

     "substance of the thinking thing, we go beyond legitimate
     reasoning if we therefore deny its existence." ... "Hume may be
     right or wrong, but the most he or anyone else can prove in
     favour of his conclusions is, that we know nothing more of the
     mind than that it is a series of perceptions. Whether there is
     something in the mind that lies beyond the reach of observation,
     or whether perceptions themselves are the products of something
     which can be observed and which is not mind, are questions which
     can in no wise be settled by direct observation."

Locke went further, and Huxley agreed with him. He declared that the mind cannot "make any
discoveries when it would pry into the nature and hidden cause of these ideas." We must, in
fact, definitely reject what we know as matter as the absolute reality of the universe, for
it becomes very plain that what we call matter we know merely as affections of our own consciousness.
In a sense, then, so far as it is opposed to materialism, idealism, according to Huxley, must
be the philosophical position of a scientific man. But the idealism is not the absolute idealism
of Berkeley, as we have no logical right to deny or to affirm the existence of absolute matter
or of absolute mind. The real truth of the philosophy of science lies in a separation between
metaphysical theory and actual pursuits. In ultimate philosophical theory it is impossible
to rest content with a plain natural conception of the universe. When any conception of matter,
or of its affections, is pushed as far as analysis can take us, what we know resolves itself
into affections of mind, into what without metaphysical finesse may be called ideas. But this
empirical idealism must be taken positively as being merely the limits of our knowledge, and
it must carry with it neither an undue exaltation of mind nor an undue depreciation of matter.

     "The Platonic philosophy is probably the grandest example of the
     unscientific use of the imagination extant; and it would be hard
     to estimate the amount of detriment to clear thinking effected,
     directly and indirectly, by the theory of ideas, on the one hand,
     and by the unfortunate doctrine of the baseness of matter, on the
     other."

Materialism was dismissed by Huxley as being an inadequate philosophical explanation of the
universe, and as being based on a logical delusion. There remains, however, a practical application
of the word in which the conceptions it involves are almost an inevitable part of science,
and which was strenuously urged by Huxley. In the earlier days of the world and of science
almost all the phenomena of nature were regarded as random or wilful displays of living intelligence.
The earth itself and the sun, the moon, and the stars were endowed with life; legions of unseen
intelligences ruled the operations of nature, and although these might be bribed or threatened,
pleased or made angry, their actions were regarded as beyond prediction or control. The procession
of the seasons, the routine of day and night, the placid appeasement of the rains, the devastating
roar of storms, the shining of the rainbow, the bubbling of springs, the terrors of famine
and pestilence; all these--the varying environment which makes or mars human life--were regarded
as inevitable and capricious. The whole progress of physical science has been attended with
a gradual elimination of these supernatural agencies and with a continual replacement of them
by conceptions of physical sequence.

Every stage in this long process, every new attempt to place physical phenomena in a chain
of direct causation has been denounced as dangerous and degrading materialism, and in this
sense Huxley was not only an adherent but one of the foremost champions of materialism. As
everyone knows, some of the greatest advances in this process of co-ordinating physical phenomena
were made during Huxley's life; and his vigorous onslaughts on those who tried to thwart all
attempts at material explanations in favour of unknown agencies made him specially open to
abusive criticism. The battle was almost invariably between those who had not special knowledge
and those in possession of it, and it occurred in practically the whole field of science, but
particularly in the biological sciences. A single example will serve to shew what is meant
by materialism in this sense and the attitude of Huxley to it. The study of the human mind
naturally has attracted the attention of thinkers almost since the beginning of philosophy,
but until this century, with a few crude exceptions, it has been conducted entirely apart from
anatomy and physiology. Advances in these physical sciences, however, have changed that, and
the modern psychologist has to begin by being a physiologist and anatomist.

     "Surely no one who is cognisant of the facts of the case,
     nowadays, doubts that the roots of psychology lie in the
     physiology of the nervous system. What we call the operations of
     the mind are the functions of the brain, and the materials of
     consciousness are products of cerebral activity. Cabanis may have
     made use of crude and misleading phraseology when he said that
     the brain secretes thought as the liver secretes bile; but the
     conception which that much-abused phrase embodies is,
     nevertheless, far more consistent with fact than the popular
     notion that the mind is a metaphysical entity seated in the head,
     but as independent of the brain as a telegraph operator is of his
     instrument. It is hardly necessary to point out that the doctrine
     just laid down is what is commonly called materialism. I am not
     sure that the adjective 'crass,' which appears to have a special
     charm for rhetorical sciolists, would not be applied to it. But
     it is, nevertheless, true that the doctrine contains nothing
     inconsistent with the purest idealism."

The whole doctrine of evolution is similarly a materialistic account of natural phenomena,
in the popular and not the philosophical meaning of the term. But even within this popular
meaning, it is extremely necessary to have an exact conception of the limits within which Huxley
was materialistic. Take for instance the question of the origin of life. It would be one of
the greatest achievements of physical science could it shew that life was not inco-ordinate
with non-living physical phenomena, but was a special case of them. Huxley knew that this advance
had not yet been made.

Since these words were written the reasons for Huxley's "philosophic faith" have been strengthened
by later discoveries, and perhaps a majority of biologists would take the view that except
for practical purposes there is no sound reason for placing living and inorganic aggregations
of matter in totally different categories. But even if the main outline of the theory of evolution
were proved beyond the possibility of doubt, if we could trace existing plants and animals
backwards with the accuracy of a genealogist and find that they had been developed, under purely
physical "laws" from a few simple forms, and if we could understand exactly how these few simple
forms of living matter took origin from non-living matter, we would not, if we followed Huxley,
be able to rest in a purely materialistic position.

The doctrine of evolution was, for him, no attempt to reinstate the "old pagan goddess, Chance."
Darwin had again and again explained, and Huxley again and again had called attention to the
explanation, that when words like "chance" and "spontaneous" were used, no more was intended
to be implied than an ignorance of the causes. In the true sense of the word "chance" did not
exist for Huxley and Darwin. So far as all scientific and common experience goes, every event
is connected with foregoing events in an orderly and inevitable chain of sequences,--a chain
that could have been predicted or predetermined by any sufficient intelligence. Moreover, Huxley
did not believe that Darwin's views, rightly interpreted, "abolished teleology and eviscerated
the argument from design." They only abolished that crude expression of teleology which supposed
all structures among animals and plants to have been created in their present forms for their
present purposes. Under the stimulus given to biology by the doctrine of evolution that science
has progressed far beyond conceptions so rudely mechanical. We know that behind each existing
structure there is a long history of change; of change not only in form and appearance, but
also in function. In the development of living organisms to-day, as they grow up into tree
or animal from seed or egg, we can trace the record of these changes of form; in some cases
we can follow the actual change of function. But in a wider sense there is no incongruity between
evolution and teleology.

In the practice of modern law-courts, a witness rarely is allowed to offer as evidence any
statement for which he himself is not the direct authority. What he himself saw or heard or
did with regard to the matter at issue--these, and not what others told him they had seen or
heard or done, are the limits within which he is allowed to be a competent witness. As a matter
of fact, in the business of life we have to act differently. A large proportion of our opinions,
beliefs, and reasons for conduct must come to us on the authority of others. We have no direct
experience of the past; of the present we can see little and only the little immediately surrounding
us. In a multitude of affairs we have to act on authority, to accept from books or from persons
what we have not ourselves the opportunity of knowing. It would seem, then, to be a primary
duty to learn to distinguish in our minds those matters which we know directly from those matters
which we have accepted on trust; and, secondly, to learn and to apply the best modes of choosing
the good and of rejecting the bad authorities. The work of the scientific man is a lifelong
exercise of these primary duties. From the first moment he begins to observe living things
or to dissect their dead frameworks, to mix chemical substances, to make experiments with magnets
and wires, he begins to build, and as long as he continues to work he continues to build for
himself a body of first-hand knowledge. But, however he work arduously or through long years,
he can visit only the smallest portion of the field of nature in which he is working. It is
necessary for him to employ the work of others, submitting, from time to time such accepted
work to the tests suggested by his own observations. He learns to regard in a different light
all knowledge taken on the authority of others; to distrust it a little until he has learned
to weigh its general credibility by his own standards, and its particular credibility by subjecting
portions of it to his own tests; to distrust it still more when even small portions fail to
answer his tests, and to reject it altogether when the percentage of detected error is large.
He learns, in fact, what Huxley called the duty of doubt.

This duty has not been universally accepted. In the history of Christian civilisation (and
a parallel series of events might be portrayed from the history of other civilisations), many
great institutions and very many great and good men have condemned and feared the habit and
attitude of doubt in all its forms. Certain doctrines believed to be of supreme importance
to mankind were held to rest on authority independent of, and perhaps not susceptible to, the
kind of testing employed in science. Around these doctrines there grew, in time, a body of
traditions, customs, new dogmas, and fantasies; and the duty of belief in the first was extended
to cover the whole system, the central jewel as well as the accretions and encrustations of
time. The domain of religious authority was extended to the whole field of human thought and
of human action, and the more unreasonable the dominion became, the more strenuously was the
duty of belief urged. The Protestant Reformation was one of the great stages in the conflict
for freedom against the universal tyranny that had arisen, but the reformers very naturally
retained a considerable portion of the bias against which they had fought. In Protestant countries,
in the first half of this century, the duty of belief in the Protestant doctrines, traditions,
philosophy, history, and attitude to science reigned supreme, and all weapons, from legitimate
argument to abusive invective and social ostracism, were employed against those who acted in
accordance with the duty of doubt. Allegations of "unsoundness" or of "free thinking" became
barriers to success in life, and those against whom they were made became lowered in the esteem
of their fellows.

At the present time, when the advance of science and of civilisation has almost won the battle
for freedom of thought, it is difficult to realise the strength of the forces against which
Huxley and many others had to fight. Huxley himself said with perfect justice: "I hardly know
of a great physical truth whose universal reception has not been preceded by an epoch in which
most estimable persons have maintained that the phenomena investigated were directly dependent
on the Divine Will, and that the attempt to investigate them was not only futile but blasphemous."
As a particular instance of this he cited some episodes in the history of geological science.

     "At the present time, it is difficult to persuade serious
     scientific enquirers to occupy themselves, in any way, with the
     Noachian Deluge. They look at you with a smile and a shrug, and
     say they have more important matters to attend to than mere
     antiquarianism. But it was not so in my youth. At that time
     geologists and biologists could hardly follow to the end any path
     of enquiry without finding the way blocked by Noah and his ark,
     or by the first chapter of Genesis; and it was a serious matter,
     in this country at any rate, for a man to be suspected of
     doubting the literal truth of the Diluvial or any other
     Pentateuchal history. The fiftieth anniversary of the foundation
     of the Geological Club (in 1824) was, if I remember rightly, the
     last occasion on which the late Sir Charles Lyell spoke to even
     so small a public as the members of that body. Our veteran leader
     lighted up once more; and, referring to the difficulties which
     beset his early efforts to create a rational science of geology,
     spoke, with his wonted clearness and vigour, of the social
     ostracism which pursued him after the publication of the
     Principles of Geology, in 1830, on account of the obvious
     tendency of that noble work to discredit the Pentateuchal
     accounts of the Creation and the Deluge. If my younger
     contemporaries find this hard to believe, I may refer them to a
     grave book On the Doctrine of the Deluge, published eight years
     later, and dedicated by the author to his father, the then
     Archbishop of York. The first chapter refers to the treatment of
     the 'Mosaic Deluge,' by Dr. Buckland and Mr. Lyell, in the
     following terms: 'Their respect for revealed religion has
     prevented them from arraying themselves openly against the
     Scriptural account of it--much less do they deny its truth--but
     they are in a great hurry to escape from the consideration of it,
     and evidently concur in the opinion of Linnæus, that no proofs
     whatever of the Deluge are to be discovered in the structure of
     the earth.' And after an attempt to reply to some of Lyell's
     arguments, which it would be cruel to reproduce, the writer
     continues:--'When, therefore, upon such slender grounds, it is
     determined, in answer to those who insist on its universality,
     that the Mosaic Deluge must be considered a preternatural event,
     far beyond the reach of philosophical enquiry; not only as to the
     causes employed to produce it, but as to the effects most likely
     to result from it; that determination wears an aspect of
     scepticism, which, however much soever it may be unintentional in
     the mind of the writer, yet cannot but produce an evil impression
     on those who are already predisposed to carp and cavil at the
     evidence of Revelation.'"

The great evil of authority was its tendency to erect itself into some form of infallibility
of universal application. When, for a time, the geological victory was won, and the supporters
of authority had comforted themselves with reconciliations, there arose the much greater and
more serious opposition between authority and the conceptions involved in evolution. Huxley,
as we have seen in an earlier chapter, found that all the old weapons of authority were resumed
with a renewed assurance, and his advocacy of the duty of doubt became not merely the defence
of a great principle but a means of self-defence. The conception of infallible authority had
been transferred by Protestants from the Church to the Bible, and against this Huxley strove
with all his might. It is convenient to reserve a full treatment of Huxley's attitude to the
Bible for a separate chapter, but at this point a quotation will shew his general view.

     "The truth is that the pretension to infallibility, by whomsoever
     made, has done endless mischief; with impartial malignity it has
     proved a curse, alike to those who have made it and those who
     have accepted it; and its most baneful shape is book
     infallibility. For sacerdotal corporations and schools of
     philosophy are able, under due compulsion of opinion, to retreat
     from positions that have become untenable; while the dead hand of
     a book sets and stiffens, amidst texts and formulæ, until it
     becomes a mere petrifaction, fit only for that function of
     stumbling-block, which it so admirably performs. Wherever
     bibliolatry has prevailed, bigotry and cruelty have accompanied
     it. It lies at the root of the deep-seated, sometimes disguised,
     but never absent, antagonism of all varieties of ecclesiasticism
     to the freedom of thought and to the spirit of scientific
     investigation."

Moreover, Presbyter is but Priest writ large, and the Protestant clergy were the leaders in
denunciation of every person and every branch of investigation or of thought in any way connected
with evolution. Huxley was no respecter of persons, and, following the example of Darwin, he
was ready to study carefully any arguments for or against any scientific doctrines by whomsoever
or howsoever brought forward. The right of criticism and duty of doubt, which he insisted on
for himself, he was extremely willing to extend to others, and, as a matter of fact he was
on terms of intimate friendship with some of his most distinguished clerical opponents. But
to an extent which it is almost impossible now to realise, the clergy generally abused their
legitimate position and authority, and demanded or assumed a right to give authoritative opinions
on questions which did not come within their domain. It was the old attempt of the Church to
make its authority felt in all departments of thought and of action, and the attempt was made
in the traditional fashion. Questions of fact were associated with questions of morality, and
those who held one view as to the meaning and implication of certain facts were denounced as
wicked. Huxley at once carried the war into the enemy's own country:

     "And, seeing how large a share of this clamour is raised by the
     clergy of one denomination or another, may I say, in conclusion,
     that it really would be well if ecclesiastical persons would
     reflect that ordination, whatever deep-seated graces it may
     confer, has never been observed to be followed by any visible
     increase in the learning or the logic of its subject. Making a
     man a Bishop, or entrusting him with the office of ministering to
     even the largest of Presbyterian congregations, or setting him up
     to lecture to a church congress, really does not in the smallest
     degree augment such title to respect as his opinions may
     intrinsically possess. And when such a man presumes on an
     authority, which was conferred on him for other purposes, to sit
     in judgment on matters his incompetence to deal with which is
     patent, it is permissible to ignore his sacerdotal pretensions,
     and to tell him, as one would tell a mere, common, unconsecrated
     layman: that it is not necessary for any man to occupy himself
     with problems of this kind unless he so choose; life is filled
     full enough with the performance of its ordinary and obvious
     duties. But that, if a man elect to become a judge of these grave
     questions; still more if he assume the responsibility of
     attaching praise or blame to his fellow-men for the conclusions
     at which they arrive touching them, he will commit a sin more
     grievous than most breaches of the decalogue, unless he avoid a
     lazy reliance upon the information that is gathered by prejudice
     and filtered through passion, unless he go back to the prime
     sources of knowledge--the facts of Nature, and the thoughts of
     those wise men who for generations past have been her best
     interpreters."

In the campaign for absolute freedom of thought, for the duty of not believing anything except
on sufficient evidence, Huxley was frequently met by an argument of superficial strength, and
which no doubt was in the minds of many of his clerical opponents. In the minds of a majority
of people, it was said, and particularly of slightly educated people, the reasons for right
conduct and the distinctions between right and wrong are firmly associated with the Bible and
with religion. If you allow doubts as to the absolute veracity of the Bible, or as to the supernatural
origin of religion to reach such persons, you run a grave risk that they will reflect the uncertainty
on the canons of morality. In taking from them what you believe to be false, inevitably you
will unsettle their ideas on moral questions although you might be in full agreement as to
these moral questions. Huxley refused to accept the asserted association between morality and
particular metaphysical or religious doctrines.

He held the view now generally taken by students of the history of man, that standards of conduct
and religious beliefs arose in separate ways and developed independently, and that it was only
comparatively recently that "religion took morality under its protection." But he met the argument
in a still more direct fashion by rejecting entirely the possibility or advisability of founding
any system of ethics upon a false basis.

Freedom of thought meant for Huxley all that is best in liberalism applied to life. In an essay
on Joseph Priestley, he described the condition of affairs in England last century, when scientific
investigation and all forms of independent thinking laboured under the most heavy restrictions
that could be imposed by dominant ecclesiastical and civil prejudice. He pointed out the astounding
changes between these times and the times of to-day.

The common ground of those who advocate the duty of belief and those who insist on the duty
of doubt is clear. Both are agreed as to the necessity of accepting whatever has sufficient
evidence to support it; both agree that there is room for doubt though not necessarily for
rejection in cases where the evidence is contaminated or insufficient. It is in the application
that the difference lies. (Newman).

Huxley helped largely in the modern movement which has made it impossible to blame people for
doubt, and this was what he strove for most strenuously. Freedom of thought, like freedom of
the Press, by no means implies that what is free must necessarily be good. In both cases there
may be a rank growth of weeds, nurtured in vicious imagination, and finding a ready market
with the credulous mob. For the detection and rejection of these, the critical method of science
serves as well as it does against the loftier errors supported by authority.

It was on Descartes and on Hume that Huxley founded the precise form in which he urged the
duty of doubt, and his exact words are worth quoting.

     "It was in 1619, while meditating in solitary winter quarters,
     that Descartes (being about the same age as Hume when he wrote
     the Treatise on Human Nature) made that famous resolution, to
     "take nothing for truth without clear knowledge that it is such,"
     the great practical effect of which is the sanctification of
     doubt; the recognition that the profession of belief in
     propositions, of the truth of which there is no sufficient
     evidence, is immoral; the discrowning of authority as such; the
     repudiation of the confusion, beloved of sophists of all sorts,
     between free assent and merely piously gagged dissent, and the
     admission of the obligation to reconsider even one's own axioms
     on due demand."

This was the healthy and active scepticism which took no direct pleasure in doubting, but used
doubt only as a means of making knowledge doubly secure, and which prevented false ideas being
bolstered up by privilege or by tyranny.

     "The development of exact natural knowledge in all its vast
     range, from physics to history and criticism, is the consequence
     of the working out, in this province, of the resolution to take
     nothing for truth without clear knowledge that it is such; to
     consider all beliefs open to criticism; to regard the value of
     authority as neither greater nor less than as much as it can
     prove itself to be worth. The modern spirit is not the spirit
     'which always denies,' delighting only in destruction; still less
     is it that which builds castles in the air rather than not
     construct; it is the spirit which works and will work 'without
     haste and without rest,' gathering harvest after harvest of truth
     into its barns and devouring error with unquenchable fire."

It is a special weakness of the modern human race to love inventing descriptive names by which
particular modes of thought may be classified and labelled. In order to meet this demand, Huxley
invented the word agnosticism, to serve as a label for his own attitude. The word rapidly became
popular, and attempts were made to read into it far more than its inventor implied. For him
it was no definite body of doctrine, no creed in any positive sense. It merely expressed the
attitude he assumed towards all problems on which he regarded the evidence as insufficient.
It was a habit of mind rather than a series of opinions or beliefs; an intellectual weapon
and not materials on which to exercise the intellect.

Hume had written that "the justest and most plausible objection against a considerable part
of metaphysics was that they are not properly a science, but arise either from the fruitless
efforts of human vanity, which would penetrate into subjects utterly inaccessible to the human
understanding, or from the craft of popular superstitions, which, being unable to defend themselves
on fair ground, raise these entangling brambles to cover and protect them." In these considerations
he found reason not for leaving superstition in possession of its ground, but for making a
bold and arduous attack upon it in its haunts. The great difficulty in the way of carrying
the war into the enemy's own camp was that in those days so-called science was itself cumbered
with many illogical and metaphysical ideas, and for the first time in the present century the
great advances of physical science, and, in particular, the renewed life poured by Darwin into
the doctrine of evolution, made it possible to bring a new series of exact arguments against
hazy metaphysical dogmas. The militant side of agnosticism was directed against the camp of
superstition and armed with the new weapons of exact science. Its stern refusal of belief without
adequate evidence was a challenge to all the supporters of the sanguine philosophy which replaces
proof by assured and emphatic statement and restatement. It is possible, although rare, for
those who hold a positive belief upon evidence, howsoever insufficient, to leave their doubting
neighbours in peace, and these neighbours, assured in their own beliefs, equally positive and
perhaps equally unfounded, may return the lazy tolerance. But the agnostic position is at once
a reproof and a challenge to all who do not hold it. It is precisely because it is addressed
against error that agnosticism brings not peace but a sword; precisely because, instead of
adding to the beliefs of the world, it seeks to examine them and perhaps by the examination
to diminish them, that it aroused passionate resentment. In this respect it stands entirely
separate and apart from any other similar term, as all these implied a definite acceptance
or rejection of some definite propositions. Agnosticism means none of these things.

Huxley was by training and habit of mind a naturalist, busy with dissections and drawings,
pursuing his branch of science for itself and with no concern as to its possible relation to
philosophical speculation or religious dogma. It is possible that, had his life been passed
under different conditions, his intellectual activities might have been spent entirely on his
scientific work. As it was, he became almost more widely known as a hostile critic of accepted
religious doctrine than as a man of science. Many causes contributed to this effect, but the
chief reason was the contemporary attitude of the churches to Darwinism. In the chapter he
contributed to the Life of Darwin he wrote that in his opinion "the doctrine of evolution does
not even come into contact with theism, considered as a philosophical doctrine." The reason
of his general attitude to the Bible was simply that his application to it of the agnostic
method led him to the view that there was not sufficient evidence for the pretensions assigned
to it; the reason of his coming forward as a public and active champion of his views in this
matter was partly to make a counter attack on the enemies of science, and partly his innate
respect for the propagation of truth. He had the inevitable respect of an Englishman for the
English Bible as one of the greatest books in our language, and we have seen how he had advocated
its adoption in schools. He had the veneration for its ethical contents common to the best
thinkers of all ages since it came into existence, and few writers have ever employed loftier
or more direct language to express their respect and admiration. As a venerator of freedom
and of liberty he regarded the Bible as the greatest text-book of freedom.

It was not against the Bible but against the applications made of it and implications read
into it that he strove.

     "In this nineteenth century, as at the dawn of modern physical
     science, the cosmogony of the semi-barbarous Hebrew is the
     incubus of the philosopher and the opprobrium of the orthodox.
     Who shall number the patient and earnest seekers after truth,
     from the days of Galileo until now, whose lives have been
     embittered and their good name blasted by the mistaken zeal of
     Bibliolaters? Who shall count the host of weaker men whose sense
     of truth has been destroyed in the effort to harmonise
     impossibilities--whose life has been wasted in the attempt to
     force the generous new wine of science into the old bottles of
     Judaism, compelled by the outcry of the same strong party? It is
     true that if philosophers have suffered, their cause has been
     amply avenged. Extinguished theologians lie about the cradle of
     every science as the strangled snakes beside that of Hercules;
     and history records that whenever science and orthodoxy have been
     fairly opposed, the latter has been forced to retire from the
     lists, bleeding and crushed, if not annihilated; scotched, if not
     slain. But orthodoxy is the Bourbon of the world of thought. It
     learns not, neither can it forget; and though, at present,
     bewildered and afraid to move, it is as willing as ever to insist
     that the first chapter of Genesis contains the beginning and the
     end of sound science; and to visit, with such petty thunderbolts
     as its half-paralysed hands can hurl, those who refuse to degrade
     Nature to the level of primitive Judaism."

These words were written in 1860 and events have moved rapidly since Huxley wrote them. There
is now practically no religious body containing a proportion of educated persons which does
not allow within it a very wide range of opinion as to the inspiration of the Scriptures, the
Biblical account of the Creation, the miraculous events of the Old Testament and the recorded
miracles of the New. Within the last few months, Dr. St. George Mivart, a distinguished Catholic
zoölogist and long an opponent of Huxley, has declared that within the Catholic Church itself
a number of educated persons are prepared to accept most of Huxley's positions, as well as
views more extremely iconoclastic than any advanced by Huxley. Although Dr. Mivart's outspoken
words have called down on him the official thunders of Rome, it is an open secret that many
good Catholics think this attempted exclusion of modern knowledge to be fraught with grave
danger to the Church. In these matters the Protestant churches have advanced much farther.

It was very different when Huxley wrote. The first and gravest difficulty placed in the way
of science was the asserted infallibility of the Scriptures. In Catholic theology, at least
until late in this century, the general tendency has been to regard the Bible rather as a quarry
for doctrine than as a direct means of grace. The theory of religion rested on two pillars:
the inspired Scriptures containing the necessary information and the inspired Church to interpret
the Scriptures. Protestant theology had rejected the infallible inspiration of the Church,
and, in consequence, had thrown a greater burden on the Scriptures. The Scriptures became the
Word of God, verbally and literally true; in its extreme form this doctrine reverted almost
to the ancient Rabbinical maxim that even the vowel points and accents were of divine origin.
In practice, if not in theory, the halo was extended to cover even the marginal chronology,
then a familiar feature in the editions of the English Bible. The present writer, even so lately
as in 1888 was reproved with violence by a clergyman of considerable education and position
for expressing a doubt as to the accuracy of these dates. Obviously there was no common measure
between a church holding such views and advancing science. War was inevitable, until one side
or the other should give way.

Huxley conducted the attack in a series of controversies extending over many years, and in
which his opponents were well-known laymen such as Mr. Gladstone, Dr. St. George Mivart, the
Duke of Argyll, and many clerical dignitaries of different denominations. The most important
of his contributions to these controversies, as well as several isolated essays and addresses,
have been collected in two volumes, Science and the Hebrew Tradition, and Science and the Christian
Tradition.

The first stage in the controversy, and the stage most immediately pressing, was to shew that
the Bible was misleading and inaccurate as a record of scientific fact, and that therefore
it could not be brought forward as evidence against scientific doctrines supported by scientific
evidence. The vital matter in this was the account given in Genesis of the origin of the world.
If that disappeared then the whole ground was gained; science would be left free in its own sphere.

In a lecture on Evolution, delivered in 1876, Huxley began by discussing the possibilities
as to the past history of nature. He believed that there were only three hypotheses which had
been entertained or which well could be entertained respecting this history. The first was
to assume that phenomena of nature similar to those exhibited by the world at present had always
existed; in fact that the universe had existed from all eternity in what might be termed, broadly,
its present condition. The second hypothesis was that the present condition of things had had
only a limited duration, and that, at some period of the past, what we now know came into existence
without any relation of natural causation to an antecedent state. The third hypothesis also
assumed that the present condition of things had had a limited duration, but it supposed that
that condition had been derived by natural processes from an antecedent condition, the hypothesis
attempting to set no limits to the series of changes.

In a certain sense, the first hypothesis recalls the doctrine of uniformitarianism, which Hutton
and Lyell had shaped from a rational interpretation of the present conditions of nature. But,
although it is no longer necessary to imagine the past history of the earth as a series of
gigantic catastrophes, yet the whole record of science is against the supposition that anything
like the existing state of nature has had an eternal duration. The record of fossils shews
that the living population of the earth has been entirely different at different epochs. Geological
history shews that, whether these changes have come about by swift catastrophes, or by slow,
enduring movements, the surface of the globe, its distribution into land and water, the character
of these areas and the conditions of climate to which they have been subjected have passed
through changes on a colossal scale. Moreover, if we look from this earth to the universe of
stars and suns and planets, we see everywhere evidence of unceasing change. If we use scientific
observation and reason, if we employ on the problem the only means we possess for attempting
its solution, we cannot accept the hypothesis that the present condition of nature has been
eternal.

The second hypothesis is familiar to us in the sacred records of many religious and in the
Hebrew Scriptures. Most of these have a fundamental similarity, inasmuch as they offer pictures
in which the mode and order of creation are given in the minutest detail and with the simplest
kind of anthropomorphism; in which the Creator is represented with familiar human characteristics.
But these general considerations, so obvious now that we have learned to read the Bible narrative
without passion or prejudice, were not plain to the early opponents of evolution, and it was
necessary, step by step, to shew not only that the narrative in Genesis could not be reconciled
with known facts if it were accepted in its literal meaning, but that the most strained interpretation
of the language failed to bring it into accordance with scientific truth. Mr. Gladstone was
the latest and most vigorous of those who attempted to reconcile Genesis with modern knowledge,
and in his controversy with Huxley he brought to bear all the resources of an acute intellect
trained by long practice in the devices of argument and inspired by a lofty if mistaken enthusiasm.
In the course of his argument he wrote:

     "But the question is not here of a lofty poem, or a skilfully
     constructed narrative; it is whether natural science, in the
     patient exercise of its high calling to examine facts, finds that
     the works of God cry out against what we have fondly believed to
     be His word and tell another tale; or whether, in this nineteenth
     century of Christian progress, it substantially echoes back the
     majestic sound, which, before it existed as a pursuit, went forth
     into all lands.

     First, looking largely at the latter portion of the narrative,
     which describes the creation of living organisms, and waiving
     details, on some of which (as in v. 24) the Septuagint seems to
     vary from the Hebrew, there is a grand fourfold division, set
     forth in an orderly succession of times as follows: on the fifth
     day

       1. The water-population.
       2. The air-population,
      and, on the sixth day,
       3. The land-population of animals.
       4. The land-population consummated in man.

     this same fourfold order is understood to have been so
     affirmed in our time by natural science, that it may be taken as
     a demonstrated conclusion and established fact."

The defence itself shewed that already a large part of the original position had been abandoned.
The literal meaning and belief in detailed accuracy were given up and Mr. Gladstone sought
to establish only a general correspondence between the Biblical narrative and the results of
science. But even in that form Huxley shewed the defence to be untenable.

     "I can meet the statement in the last paragraph of the above
     citation," he replied, "with nothing but a direct negative. If I
     know anything at all about the results attained by the natural
     science of our time, it is a 'demonstrated conclusion and
     established fact' that the fourfold order given by Mr. Gladstone
     is not that in which the evidence at our disposal tends to shew
     that the water, air, and land populations of our globe made their
     appearance."

With the most voluminous detail, he proceeds to shew that there is no possible relation between
the order implied by the narrative and the order as revealed by science. Let us sum up, by
two quotations, the result of the whole controversy. First, the literal meaning is untenable.

The attenuated meaning equally must be given up.

     "Even if they (the reconcilers) now allow that the words 'the
     evening and the morning' have not the least reference to a
     natural day, but mean a period of any number of millions of years
     that may be necessary; even if they are driven to admit that the
     word 'creation,' which so many millions of pious Jews and
     Christians have held, and still hold, to mean a sudden act of the
     Deity, signifies a process of gradual evolution of one species
     from another, extending through immeasurable time; even if they
     are willing to grant that the asserted coincidence of the order
     of nature with the 'fourfold order' ascribed to Genesis is an
     obvious error instead of an established truth, they are surely
     prepared to make a last stand upon the conception which underlies
     the whole, and which constitutes the essence of Mr. Gladstone's
     'fourfold division, set forth in an orderly succession of times.'
     It is that the animal species which compose the water-population,
     the air-population, and the land-population, respectively,
     originated during three distinct and successive periods of time,
     and only during these periods of time.... But even this
     sublimated essence of the Pentateuchal doctrine remains as
     discordant with natural science as ever."

There remains the third, or evolutionary hypothesis regarding the origin of the existing order
of nature. As Huxley held it, it was rigidly limited within the possibilities afforded by the
agnostic attitude. With regard to the real nature, the origin and destiny of the whole universe,
there was not sufficient evidence before the human mind, if indeed the human mind were capable
of receiving such evidence, to come to any conclusion. For the rest, for the actual condition
of the earth itself, science was gradually accumulating overwhelming evidence in favour of
a continuous evolution, under natural agencies, from the beginning of life to the existing
forms of animals and plants, and the actual origin of life from inorganic matter under similarly
natural agencies was becoming more and more a legitimate inference.

Huxley's relation to the New Testament may be summed up in few words. It was simply that there
was not sufficient evidence for ascribing to it the supernatural sanction demanded for it by
dogmatic theology. These considerations with slight differences in details are now practically
admitted among the abler apologists, with the result that, as Huxley claimed, the New Testament,
like the Old, must be treated as literature rather than as Dogma. As Literature everyone has
the right to examine the contents critically, and, considering the importance attributed to
the contents, the right becomes a duty. No doubt, had Huxley not lived there would have been
others equally ready and equally able to gain the battle for freedom of thought in its special
application to the claim of the Bible to stand in the way of the advance of scientific knowledge;
but as it is, it cannot be denied that the existing prevalence of liberal views, inside and
outside the churches, on the nature and interpretation of the Scriptures is largely due to him.

After the question of inspiration, the most striking feature of the Bible is its appeal to
miracles and the miraculous element. It is now necessary to examine the position assumed by
Huxley towards these. Two great a priori difficulties have been brought against accepting any
record of miracles as true. The first of these is very simple, depending on the history of
all times and peoples. It is that the human race has shewn itself universally credulous in
this matter. It has cried "Wolf!" so readily, so honestly, and on so many occasions that the
cry has ceased to carry conviction with it. Every religion has its series of miraculous events;
every savage tribe and every uneducated race has its miracle-workers implicitly accepted. In
mediæval and modern Europe up to our own times, miracles have been so constantly recorded on
testimony of such undoubted integrity that we must either believe that miracles can be performed
by numberless persons with no other claim to special regard, or that it is singularly easy
to get false but honest evidence regarding them. Huxley supported the latter alternative strongly,
and held the view that to believe in any particular miracles would require evidence very much
more direct and very much stronger than would be necessary in the case of inherently probable
events.

The second a priori objection to the credibility of miracles has been urged more strongly,
but was not accepted by Huxley. It is that miracles are inherently incredible inasmuch as they
are "violations of the order of nature." Hume, attacking miracles, had made this objection
the chief ground of his argument. Huxley paid a logical respect, at least as great, to the
continuity of nature.

     "When the experience of generation after generation is recorded,
     and a single book tells us more than Methuselah could have
     learned, had he spent every waking hour of his thousand years in
     learning; when apparent disorders are found to be only the
     recurrent pulses of a slow-working order, and the wonder of a
     year becomes the commonplace of a century; when repeated and
     minute examination never reveals a break in the chain of causes
     and effects; and the whole edifice of practical life is built
     upon our faith in its continuity; the belief that that chain has
     never been broken and will never be broken, becomes one of the
     strongest and most justifiable of human convictions. And it must
     be admitted to be a reasonable request, if we ask those who would
     have us put faith in the actual occurrence of interruptions of
     that order, to produce evidence in favour of their view, not only
     equal, but superior, in weight, to that which leads us to adopt
     ours."

But out of the mouth of Hume himself he declared against making the recorded experience of
man, however lengthy and impressive, a necessary ground for rejecting the possibility of the
miraculous. Hume had said, "Whatever is intelligible and can be distinctly conceived implies
no contradiction, and can never be proved false by any demonstration, argument, or reasoning,
a priori." This or the like applies to most of the recorded miracles. Huxley was extremely
careful not to assert that they were incredible merely because they might involve conditions
outside our existing experience. It is a vulgar mistake, for which science certainly gives
no warrant, to assert that things are impossible because they contradict our experience. In
such a sense many of the most common modern conveniences of life would have seemed impossible
a century ago. To travel with safety sixty miles an hour, to talk through the telephone with
a friend an hundred miles away, to receive intelligible messages across the Atlantic by a cable,
and, still more, to communicate by wireless telegraphy would have seemed impossible until recently.
At the present time, the conversion of a baser metal into gold would be called impossible by
everyone with a little knowledge of elementary chemistry. This last example leads admirably
to a right understanding of the scientific view of impossibility. The older alchemists, partly
from ignorance and partly from credulity, believed absolutely in the possibility of transmuting
the metals. The advance of chemical science led to definite conceptions of the differences
between compounds and elementary bodies, and of the independence of these elements. The methods
and reasoning of the alchemists became absurd, and no one would attempt seriously to transmute
the metals on their lines. These advances, however, do not give us the right to assume that
the elements are absolutely independent, and that transmutation is therefore impossible. Some
of the most recent progress in chemistry has opened up the suggestion that the elements themselves
are different combinations of a common substance. Huxley applied this particular argument to
the miracle at the marriage of Cana.

Unless we make the unscientific and preposterous assumption that our present knowledge of nature
and of natural forces is absolute and complete, it is unscientific and illogical to declare
at once that any supposed events could not have happened merely because they seem to have contradicted
so-called natural laws.

The whole matter turns on the question of sufficient evidence.

     "Hume's arguments resolve themselves into a simple statement of
     the dictates of common sense which may be expressed in this
     canon: the more a statement of fact conflicts with previous
     experience, the more complete must be the evidence which is to
     justify us in believing it."

It was a question of evidence, and not only did the evidence not convince Huxley, but the thaumaturgic
nature of the Biblical miracles provided him with additional reason for refusing to attach
any extrinsic value to the contents of the book.

On the other hand, although he declined to accept the Bible as a miraculous and authentic revelation,
again and again he expressed himself in the strongest terms as to its value to mankind, and
as to the impossibility of any scientific advance diminishing in any way whatsoever that value.

     "The antagonism between religion and science, about which we hear
     so much, appears to me to be purely factitious--fabricated, on
     the one hand, by shortsighted religious people who confound a
     certain branch of science, theology, with religion; and, on the
     other, by equally shortsighted scientific people who forget that
     science takes for its province only that which is susceptible of
     clear intellectual comprehension; and that, outside the
     boundaries of that province, they must be content with
     imagination, with hope, and with ignorance."

And again;

     "In the eighth century B.C., in the heart of a world of
     idolatrous polytheists, the Hebrew prophets put forth a
     conception of religion which appears to me to be as wonderful an
     inspiration of genius as the art of Pheidias or the science of
     Aristotle.

We have seen that Huxley refused to acquiesce in the current orthodox doctrine that our systems
of morality rested on a special revelation, miraculous in its origin, and vouched for by the
recorded miracles of its Founder, or by those entrusted by the Founder with miraculous power.
He supported the view that, historically and actually, there is no necessary connection between
religion and morality. The one is an attempt, in his opinion always unsuccessful, to lift the
veil from the unseen, to know the unknowable; the other is simply the code that social man,
through the ages, has elaborated for his own guidance, and proved by his own experience. So
far as the conduct of life goes, the morality of one who accepts the agnostic position with
regard to revelation and the unseen universe differs in no respect from the code taken under
the protection of the modern forms of religion. As John Morley, in his Essay on Voltaire wrote
of such a person:

     "There are new solutions for him, if the old have fallen dumb. If
     he no longer believe death to be a stroke from the sword of God's
     justice, but the leaden footfall of an inflexible law of matter,
     the humility of his awe is deepened, and the tenderness of his
     pity made holier, that creatures who can love so much should have
     their days so shut round with a wall of darkness. The purifying
     anguish of remorse will be stronger, not weaker, when he has
     trained himself to look upon every wrong in thought, every duty
     omitted from act, each infringement of the inner spiritual law
     which humanity is constantly perfecting for its own guidance and
     advantage, less as a breach of the decrees of an unseen tribunal
     than as an ungrateful infection weakening and corrupting the
     future of his brothers."

But there are wider questions than the immediate problems of conduct. A certain type of mind
finds it almost impossible not to attempt ethical judgments on the whole universe, not to speculate
whether the Cosmos, as we can imagine it from the part of it within the cognisance of man,
offers a spectacle of moral or immoral or of non-moral significance. In the old times of Greece
and in the modern world many have been devoid of the taste for argument on such subjects. Those
who are uninterested in these abstract discussions are rarely in opposition to the mode of
faith surrounding them, as to reject the doctrines held by the majority of one's friends and
associates implies either a disagreeable disposition or an unusual interest in ultimate problems;
they are usually orthodox according to their environment--Stoics, Epicureans, Jews, Episcopalians,
Catholics, Quakers, Methodists, Mormons, Mohammedans, Buddhists, or whatever may be the prevailing
dogma around them. The attitude of indifference to moral philosophy has practically no relation
to what may be considered good or bad moral conduct; those characterised by it live above or
below or round about their own moral standards in a fashion as variable as that of moral philosophers.
Many of the saints, ancient and modern, have been notorious instances; question them as to
their faith or as to the logical foundation of their renunciations and they will tell you in
simple honesty or make it plain by their answers that they have no head for logic, that they
cannot argue, but only know and feel their position to be true. In addition to the saints,
many of the best and most of the pleasant people in the world are of this type.

The type strongly in contrast with the foregoing is found in persons of a more strenuous, perhaps
more admirable but less agreeable character. The savour of acerbity may be a natural attribute
of the critical character, and it is certainly not lessened where moral philosophy is the subject-matter
of the criticism. The continual search after solutions of problems that may be insoluble at
least makes the seekers excellent judges of wrong solutions. Like Luther and Loyola and Kant,
they may be able to satisfy themselves, or, like Huxley, they may remain in doubt, but in either
case they are excellent critics of the solutions of others. They are the firebrands of faith
or of negation; they are possessed by an intellectual fury that will not let them cease from
propagandising. They must go through the world as missionaries; and the missionary spirit is
dual, one side zealous to proclaim the new, the other equally zealous to denounce the old.
But theirs is the great work, "to burn old falsehood bare," to tear away the incrustations
of time which people have come to accept as the thing itself, and in their track new and lively
truth springs up, as fresh green follows the devastations of fire.

To most of us it seems of sufficient importance and of sufficient difficulty to make our decisions
in the little eddies of good and evil that form as the world-stream breaks round our individual
lives. Huxley strove to interpret the world-stream itself, to translate its movements into
the ethical language of man. As knowledge of the forces and movements of the Cosmos has increased
so has our general conception been intensified, our conception of it as a wondrous display
of power and grandeur and superhuman fixity of order. But are the forces of the Cosmos good
or evil? Are we, and the Cosmos of which we are a part, the sport of changeable and capricious
deities, the pawns in a game of the gods, as some of the Greeks held; or of a power drunkenly
malicious, as Heine once cynically suggested; or a battle-ground for a force of good and a
force of evil as in so many Eastern religions? Are we dominated by pure evil, as some dark
creeds have held, or by pure good, as the religion of the Western world teaches? And if we
are dominated by pure evil, whence come good and the idea of good, or, if by pure good, whence
evil and the idea of evil?

Huxley's interest in these great problems appears and reappears throughout his published writings,
but his views are most clearly and systematically exposed in his "Romanes" lecture on "Evolution
and Ethics" delivered and published at Oxford in 1894, and afterwards republished with a prefatory
essay in the last volume of his Collected Essays. Not long before his death, Professor Romanes,
who had come to live in Oxford, founded a University lectureship, the purpose of which was
that once a year a distinguished man should address the University on a subject neither religious
nor political. Mr. Gladstone was the first lecturer, and, at the suggestion of the founder,
Huxley was chosen as the second.

As Huxley, on that great occasion, ascended the rostrum in the Sheldonian theatre, very white
and frail in his scarlet doctor's robes, there must have been present in his mind memories
of the occasion, four-and-thirty years before, when he first addressed an audience in the University
of Oxford. Then he was a young man, almost unknown, rising to lead what seemed a forlorn hope
for an idea utterly repugnant to most of his hearers. Now, and largely by his own efforts,
the idea had become an inseparable part of human thought, and Huxley himself was the guest
to whom the whole University was doing honour. Graduates from all parts of England had come
to hear what, it was feared, might be his last public speech, and practically every member
of the University who could gain admission was present. The press of the world attended to
report his words as if they were those of a great political leader, about to decide the fate
of nations. Although his voice had lost much of its old sonorous reach, and although the old
clear rhythms were occasionally broken by hesitancies, the magic of his personality oriented
to him every face.

It is a curious and striking circumstance, a circumstance fully recognised by Huxley himself,
that in this exposition of his ethical conception of the Cosmos he reconstructed, on the lines
of his evolutionary philosophy one of the oldest and most widespread theories, a theory again
and again reached by men of different civilisations and epochs. Manes, the Persian, from whose
name the word "Manicheism" has been coined to denote his doctrine, taught in perhaps the most
explicit fashion that the Cosmos was the battle-ground of two contending powers,--Ahriman,
the principle of evil, and Ormuzd, the principle of good. This doctrine in some form or other
is implicit in most of the greater religions, some of which have assumed an ultimate triumph
for the principle of good, while others have left the issue doubtful. The Ahriman of Huxley,
the principle of evil, is what he termed the cosmic process, that great play of forces, by
which, in a ruthless struggle for existence, the fittest (by which is meant the most suited
to the surrounding conditions and not necessarily the ethically best) have survived at the
expense of the less fit. The Ormuzd, the principle of good, is what Huxley called the Ethical
process, the process by which sentient, intelligent, and moral man has striven to replace the
"old ape and tiger methods" of the cosmic process, by methods in which justice and mercy, sacrifice
and consideration for others have a part.

To explain clearly the distinction he made between the ethical and cosmic processes. Huxley,
in the prefatory essay ("Prolegomena") published in the volume with his Romanes lecture, developed
the analogy of a cultivated garden reclaimed from surrounding wild nature. He described how
the countryside, visible from his windows at Eastbourne, had certainly been in a "state of
nature" about two thousand years ago when Cæsar had set foot in Britain and had made the Roman
camps, the remains of which still mark the chalk downs of England.

This present state of nature, he explained, is only a fleeting phase of a process that has
gone on for millions of years. Under the thin layer of soil are the chalk cliffs, hundreds
of feet thick and witnesses of the entirely different phases of the struggle that went on while
the cliffs were being formed at the bottom of the chalk sea, when the vegetation of the nearest
land was as different from the existing vegetation as that is different from the trees and
flowers of an African forest.

He proceeds to describe how, under such circumstances, the artificial barriers would decay,
and the delicate inhabitants of the garden would perish under the assaults of animal and vegetable
foes. External forces would reassert themselves and wild nature would resume its sway. While,
in a sense, he had strenuously advocated the unity of all nature, he found in it two rivals:
the artificial products of sentient man and the forces and products of wild nature. These two
he believed to be in inevitable opposition and to represent the good and the evil forces of
the world.

In the dim ages of the past, the forces that have gone to the making of man have been part
of the cosmic process. In the endless and wonderful series of kaleidoscopic changes by which,
under the operation of natural laws, the body, habits, and the character of man have been elaborated
slowly from the natal dust, there is the widest field for the operation of the most acute intelligence
to study and trace the stages in the process. But if intellectual delight in studying the process
be left out of account, a serious question at once appears. In the higher stages of evolution
the cosmic forces, ceasing to act merely on insentient matter, have operated on sentient beings,
and in so doing have given rise to the mystery of pain and suffering. When the less fit of
chemical combinations or even of the lower forms of life perished in the struggle, we may regard
the process with the unemotional eye of pure intelligence. But "pain, the baleful product of
evolution, increases in quantity and in intensity with advancing stages of animal organisation,
until it attains its highest level in man." And so it comes about that the cosmic process produces
evil, sorrow, and suffering. Consideration of the cosmic process leads up against the mystery
of evil.

Huxley argued that the various philosophies and civilisations of the past had led by different
paths to a similar conclusion. The primitive ethical codes of man were not unlike the compacts
of a wolf-pack, the understanding to refrain from mutual attack during the chase of a common
prey. Conceptions of this kind became arranged in codes and invested with supernatural sanction.
But in Hindustan and Ionia alike, material prosperity, no doubt partly the result of the accepted
codes, produced culture of the intellect and culture of the pleasures. With these came the
"beneficent demon, doubt, whose name is legion and who dwells amongst the tombs of old faiths."
The doubting intellect, acting on the codes, produced the conception of justice-in-itself,
of merit as divorced from the effect of action on others, the abstract idea of goodness.

The old philosopher, turning from this new conception to the Cosmos, found that incompatible
with goodness. Suffering and sorrow, sunshine and rain, were distributed independently of merit.
With Greek and Semite and Indian the conscience of man revolted against the moral indifference
of nature. Instead of bringing in a verdict of guilty, they attempted reconciliation in various
ways. Indian speculation invented or elaborated the theory of transmigration, in which the
Karma or soul-character passed from individual to individual, the algebraic sums of happiness
in the whole chain being proportional to merit. The Stoics were metaphysicians and imagined
an immanent, omnipotent, and infinitely beneficent First Cause. Evil was incompatible with
this, and so they held, against experience, that either it did not exist, or that it was inflicted
for our benefit or due to our fault. In one fashion or another, all the great systems of thought
had recognised the antagonism and had attempted some explanation of it. Huxley's view was that
the modern world with its new philosophy was only retreading the toil-worn paths of the old.
Scientific optimism was being replaced by a frank pessimism. Cosmic evolution might be accountable
for both good and evil, but knowledge of it provided no better reason for choice of the good
than did earlier speculation. The cosmic process was not only non-moral but immoral; goodness
did not lead to success in it, and laws and moral precepts could only be addressed to the curbing
of it.

In a sense these conclusions of Huxley seemed to lead to absolute pessimism, but he offered
some mitigating considerations. Society remains subject to the cosmic process, but the less
as civilisation advances and ethical man is the more ready to combat it. The history of civilisation
shows that we have some hope of this, for "when physiology, psychology, ethics, and political
science, now befogged by crude anticipations and futile analogies, have emerged from their
childhood, they may work as much change on human affairs as the earlier-ripened physical sciences
wrought on material progress." And so, remembering that the evil cosmic nature in us has the
foothold of millions of years, and never hoping to abandon sorrow and pain, we may yet, in
the manhood of our race, accept our destiny, and, with clear and steady eyes, address ourselves
to the task of living, that we and others may live better.

These gloomy views come from Huxley with such weight and authority that even in a sketch of
his life and opinions it may be noticed that they do not seem necessary deductions from the
evolutionary conception of the world. The first count adduced against the cosmic process is
its connection with suffering. It may be doubted, so far as the animal world is concerned,
if Huxley has not exaggerated the gravity of this. The two greatest contributors to the modern
conception of evolution are not in agreement with him. Alfred Russel Wallace wrote:

     "On the whole, then, we conclude that the popular idea of the
     struggle for existence entailing misery and pain on the animal
     world is the very reverse of the truth. What it really brings
     about is the maximum of life and of the enjoyment of life with
     the minimum of suffering and pain. Given the necessity of death
     and reproduction--and without those there could have been no
     progressive development of the animal world--and it is difficult
     even to imagine a system by which a greater balance of happiness
     could have been secured."

This view was evidently that also of Darwin himself, who thus concluded his chapter on the
struggle for existence: "When we reflect on this struggle, we may console ourselves with the
full belief that the war of nature is not incessant, that no fear is felt, that death is generally
prompt, and that the vigorous, the healthy, and the happy survive and multiply." As for man
himself, though it be true that in him the consummation of pain is reached, still this is no
isolated fact of far-reaching ethical importance. It is in direct dependence on the increased
physical and mental development of man, and these are equally necessary for and equally susceptible
to increased pleasure and increased happiness. It is not necessary to regard the cosmic process
as evil. Even when man, in various ages, had elaborated the conception of abstract goodness,
and had endeavoured to make his justice a doling out of reward and punishment according to
merit, it was not inevitable to bring in a verdict of guilty against the Cosmos. It is quite
true that, in all the ages, man has seen the sun shine on the unjust as on the just. But it
is an easy reflection that the world could not turn round on individual merit, and if few are
so guilty as to deserve the agonies of grief that may come to all, still fewer deserve some
of the simpler and more common joys of life. The conception that was implicit in the disciplines
of the older philosophies is still open to the philosophy of evolution. Behind it, as behind
the "self-hypnotised catalepsy of the devotee of Brahma," the Buddhist aspirations to Nirvana,
the apatheia of the Stoics, there may lie a recognition of the worthlessness of the individual:
an equable acceptation of one's self as part of a process: a triumph of intelligence over selfishness.
Finally, behind the sharp division made between man and the Cosmos, there still lurks one of
the oldest and most enduring fallacies of the world, a fallacy that Huxley himself spent a
great part of his intellectual life in discovering and routing. The fallacy is the conception
of the Cosmos as something separate and apart from man, as something through which he, however
briefly, passes. Thus Omar sang:

    "Myself, when young, did eagerly frequent
    Doctor and saint, and heard great argument
      About it and about: but evermore
    Came out by the same door where in I went.

    "With them the seed of wisdom did I sow,
    And with mine own hand wrought to make it grow;
      And this was all the Harvest that I reaped--
    'I came like Water, and like Wind I go.'

    "Into this Universe, and Why not knowing
    Nor Whence, like water willy-nilly flowing;
      And out of it, like Wind along the Waste
    I know not Whither, willy-nilly blowing."

But, the more profoundly does the conception of evolution lay hold of human thought, the more
inevitable it becomes to recognise that man and all that is best in man--his aspirations, ideas,
virtues, and practical and abstract justice and goodness--are just as much the product of the
cosmic process and part of the Cosmos as the most sinister results of the struggle for existence.

Huxley's life followed the quiet and even tenor of that of a professional man of science and
letters. The great adventure in it was his youthful voyage on the Rattlesnake. That over, and
his choice made in favour of science as against medicine, he settled down in London. He married
happily and shared in the common joys and sorrows of domestic life. Advancement came to him
steadily, and, although he was never rich, after the first few years of life in London, his
income was always adequate to his moderate needs. For the greater part of his working life,
he lived actually in London, in the ordinary style and with the ordinary social enjoyments
of a professional man. His duties in connection with the Royal College of Science and with
the Geological Survey were not arduous but constant; his time was fully occupied with these,
with his scientific and literary work, with the business of scientific societies, with the
occasional obligations of royal commissions, public boards, and lecturing engagements. The
quiet routine of his life was diversified by many visits to provincial towns to deliver lectures
or addresses, by meetings of the British Association, by holidays in Switzerland, during which,
with Tyndall, he made special studies of the phenomena of glaciation, and in the usual Continental
resorts, and by several trips to America.

In a rough-and-ready fashion, Huxley's active life may be broken into a set of decennial periods,
each with tolerably distinctive characters. The first period, roughly from 1850 to 1860, was
almost purely scientific. It was occupied by his voyage, by his transition to science as a
career, his researches into the invertebrate forms of life, the beginning of his palæontological
investigations, and a comparatively small amount of lecturing and literary work. The second
decennium still found him employed chiefly in research, vertebrate and extinct forms absorbing
most of his attention. He was occupied actively with teaching, but the dominant feature of
the decennium was his assumption of the Darwinian doctrines. In connection with these latter,
his literary and lecturing work increased greatly, and the side issues of what was, in itself,
purely a scientific controversy began to lead him into metaphysical and religious studies.
The third period, from 1870 to 1880, was considerably different in character. He had become
the most prominent man in biological science in England, at a time when biological science
was attracting a quite unusual amount of scientific and public attention. Public honours and
public duties, some of them scientific, others general, began to crowd upon him, and the time
at his disposal for the quiet labours of investigation became rapidly more limited within this
period. He was secretary of the Royal Society, a member of the London School Board, president
of the British Association, Lord Rector at several universities, member of many royal commissions,
government inspector of fisheries, president of the Geological Society. In this multitude of
duties it was natural that the bulk of strictly scientific output was limited, but, on the
other hand, his literary output was much larger. Between 1880 and 1890 he had reached the full
maturity of a splendid reputation, and honours and duties pressed thick upon him. For part
of the time he was president of the Royal Society, the most distinguished position to which
a scientific man in England can attain, and he was held by the general public at least in as
high esteem as by his scientific contemporaries. A small amount of original scientific work
still appeared from his pen, but he was occupied chiefly with more general contributions to
thought.

Throughout his life, Huxley had never been robust. From his youth upwards he had been troubled
by dyspepsia with its usual accompaniment of occasional fits of severe mental and physical
depression. In 1872 he was compelled to take a long holiday in Egypt, and, although he returned
to resume full labour, it is doubtful if from that time onwards he recovered even the strength
normal to him. In 1885, his ill-health became grave; in the following years he had two attacks
of pleurisy, and symptoms of cardiac mischief became pressing. He gradually withdrew from his
official posts, and, in 1890, retired to Eastbourne, where he had built himself a house on
the Downs. The more healthy conditions and the comparative leisure he permitted himself had
a good effect, and he was able to write some of his most brilliant essays and to make a few
public appearances: at Oxford in 1893, when he delivered the Romanes lecture; at the meeting
of the British Association in 1894, when he spoke on the vote of thanks to the President, the
Marquis of Salisbury; at the Royal Society in the same year when he received the recently established
"Darwin Medal." Early in the spring of 1895, he had a prostrating attack of influenza, and
from that time until his death on June 29, 1895, he was an invalid. He was buried in the Marylebone
cemetery at Finchley, to the north of London.

Huxley was of middle stature and rather slender build. His face, as Professor Ray Lankester
described it, was "grave, black-browed, and fiercely earnest." His hair, plentiful and worn
rather long, was black until in old age it became silvery white. He wore short side whiskers,
but shaved the rest of his face, leaving fully exposed an obstinate chin, and mobile lips,
grim and resolute in repose, but capable of relaxation into a smile of almost feminine charm.

He was a very hard worker and took little exercise. Professor Howes describes a typical day
as occupied by lecture and laboratory work at the College of Science until his hurried luncheon;
then a cab-drive to the Home Office for his work as Inspector of Fisheries; then a cab home
for an hour's work before dinner, and the evening after dinner spent in literary work or scientific
reading. While at work, his whole attention was engrossed, and he disliked being disturbed.
This abstraction of his attention is illustrated humorously by a story told by one of his demonstrators.
Huxley was engaged in the investigations required for his book on the Crayfish, and his demonstrator
came in to ask a question about a codfish. "Codfish?" said Huxley; "that's a vertebrate, isn't
it? Ask me in a fortnight and I'll consider it." While at work he smoked almost continuously,
and from time to time he took a little relaxation, for the strains of a fiddle were occasionally
heard from his room. Indeed he was devoted to music, regarding it as one of the highest of
the æsthetic pleasures.

He had a hot temper, and did not readily brook opposition, especially when that seemed to him
to be the result of stupidity or of prejudice rather than of reason, and his own reason was
of a very clear, decided, and exact order. He had little sympathy with vacillation of any kind,
whether it arose from mere infirmity of purpose or from the temperament which delights in balancing
opposing considerations.

The particular suggestions to which these remarks were the characteristic introduction related
to definite problems of education, that is to say, to questions upon which some action was
urgent. It was in all cases of life, in science or affairs, that Huxley was resolute for clear
ideas and definite courses of conduct. As a matter of fact, no one ever took greater care to
satisfy himself as best he could as to what was right and what was wrong; but where action
rather than reflection was needed, then his principle was to act, and to know definitely and
clearly why you acted and for what you acted. In matters of opinion, on the other hand, he
was all for not coming to a definite opinion when the facts obtainable did not justify such
an opinion. In thought, agnosticism, the refusal to accept any ideas or principles except on
sufficient evidence; in action, positivism, to act promptly in definite and known directions
for definite and known objects: these were his principles.

Another aspect of the same trait of character, he shewed in an address to medical students
at a distribution of prizes.

All Huxley's work was marked by a quality which may be called conscientiousness or thoroughness.
Looking through his memoirs, written many years ago, the subjects of which have since been
handled and rehandled by other writers with new knowledge and with new methods at their disposal,
one is struck that all the observations he made have stood their ground. With new facts new
generalisations have often been reached, and some of the positions occupied by Huxley have
been turned. But what he saw and described had not to be redescribed; the citations he made
from the older authorities were always so chosen as to contain the exact gist of the writers.
These qualities, admirable in scientific work, became at once admirable and terrible in his
controversial writings. His own exactness made him ruthless in exposing any inexactness in
his adversaries, and there were few disputants who left an argument with Huxley in an undamaged
condition. The consciousness which he had of his own careful methods, added to a natural pugnacity,
gave him an intellectual courage of a very high order. As he knew himself to have made sure
of his premisses, he did not care whither his conclusions might lead him, against whatsoever
established doctrine or accepted axiom.

There was, however, a strong spice of natural combativeness in his nature, the direct result
of his native and highly trained critical faculty. He tells us that in the pre-Darwinian days
he was accustomed to defend the fixity of species in the company of evolutionists and in the
presence of the orthodox to attack the same doctrine. Later in life, when evolution had become
fashionable, and the principles of Darwinism were being elevated into a new dogmatism, he was
as ready to criticise the loose adherents of his own views as he had been to expose the weakness
of the conventional dogmatists.

Perhaps the most striking feature of Huxley's work as a whole was its infectious nature. His
vigorous and decided personality was reflected on all the subjects to which he gave attention,
and in the same fashion as his presence infected persons with a personal enthusiasm so his
writings stimulated readers to efforts along the same lines. His great influence is clear in
the number and distinction of the biologists who came under his personal care, and in the great
army of writers and thinkers who have been inspired by his views and methods on general questions.
His position as an actual contributor to science has to a certain extent been lost sight of
for two reasons. In the first place, his effect on the world as an expositor of the scientific
method in its general application to life has overshadowed his exact work; in the second place,
his exact work itself has been partly lost sight of in the new discoveries and advances to
which it gave rise. It is therefore necessary to reiterate that, apart from all his other successes,
he had made for himself an extremely distinguished position in the annals of exact science.
Sir Michael Foster and Prof. Ray Lankester, in their preface to the collected edition of his
scientific memoirs, make a just claim for him. These memoirs, they wrote, show that, "apart
from the influence exerted by his popular writings, the progress of biology during the present
century was largely due to labours of his of which the general public knew nothing, and that
he was in some respects the most original and most fertile in discovery of all his fellow workers
in the same branch of science."

There can be little question that it was no accident that determined the direction of Huxley's
career. He was a naturalist by inborn vocation. The contrast between a natural bent and an
acquired habit of life was well seen in the case of Huxley and Macgillivray, his companion
on the Rattlesnake. The former was appointed as a surgeon, and it was no part of his duties
to busy himself with the creatures of the sea; and yet his observations on them made a series
of real contributions to biological science and laid the sure foundation of a world-wide and
enduring reputation. The latter was the son of a naturalist, a naturalist by profession, and
appointed to the expedition as its official naturalist; and yet he made only a few observations
and a limited collection of curiosities, and even his exiguous place in the annals of zoölogy
is the accidental result of his companionship with Huxley. The special natural endowments which
Huxley brought to the study of zoölogy were, in the first place, a faculty for the patient
and assiduous observation of facts; in the second, a swift power of discriminating between
the essential and the accessory among facts; in the third, the constructive ability to arrange
these essentials in wide generalisations which we call laws or principles and which, within
the limits necessarily set by inductive principles, are the starting-point for new deductions.
These were the faculties which he brought to his science, but there were added to them two
personal characteristics without which they would not have taken him far. They were impelled
by a driving force which distinguishes the successful man from the muddler and without which
the finest mental powers are as useless as a complicated machine disconnected from its driving-wheel.
They were directed by a lofty and disinterested enthusiasm, without which the most talented
man is a mere self-seeker, useless or dangerous to society. The faculties and qualities which
made Huxley great as a zoölogist were practically those which he applied to the general questions
of biological theory, to the problems of education and of society, and to philosophy and metaphysics.
A comparison between his sane and forcible handling of questions that lay outside the special
province to which the greater part of his life was devoted, with the dubious and involved treatment
given such questions by the professional politicians to whom the English races tend to entrust
their destinies, is a useful comment on that value of science as discipline to which Huxley
so strenuously called attention.

There can be no better way of ending this sketch of Huxley's life and work than by quoting
his own account of the objects to which he had devoted himself consciously.

INDEX

A

Adams, 209

Admiralty, 14, 48, 49

Agassiz, 68, 91, 99

Age of the earth, 84, 85

Agnosticism, 239, 241-243, 279

Ahriman, 265

Alchemists, 256, 257

Alternation of generations, 53, 54

Ameghino, 141

America, 70

American addresses, 71

American fossils, 75

American monkeys, 163

Amphibia, 143

Amphioxus, 22, 134

Anatomy of man and ape, 161

Anchitherium, 70, 74, 76

Animal kingdom, old views of, 35

Animals and plants, 97

Anthracosaurus, 69

Anthropomorphism, 250

Anthropoid apes, 149-153

"Ape and Tiger" methods, 265

Appendicularia, 56, 57

Apprenticeship in medicine, 183

Archæopteryx, 136

Archetype of molluscs, 58, 59, 61

Archetype of Vertebrata, Articulata, and Radiata, 62

Arctogœa, 140

Argyll, Duke of, 248

Aristotle, 100, 259

Arnold, Matthew, 185

Articulata of Cuvier, 38

Ascaris, egg of, 176

Ascidians, 55-57, 96

Australia and South America, land connection, 141

Authority, 175, 231, 232, 241

Authority and investigation, 179

Authority and knowledge, 104, 105

Axioms, 240

B

Bach, Sebastian, 278

Balfour, F.M., 135

Barrier Reef of Australia, 20

Basi-cranium of vertebrates, 132

Beagle, voyage of, 28

Beelzebub, 238

Belief, duty of, 238, 239

Belief, nature of scientific, 228

Beneden, van, 59, 176

Berkeley, Bishop, 218, 221, 224

Berkeley, quotation from, 221

Bible, 189, 192, 194, 213, 235, 237, 244, 245, 247, 248, 250, 253, 254, 259

Bible and geology, 80

Bibliolatry, 235, 246

Bimana, 164

Biology and medical education, 184

Birds, ancestry of, 69

Birds, classification of, 135

Birmingham, 185

Bishop, 175

Bishop Berkeley, 218, 221, 224

Bishop of Norwich, 33

Bishop of Oxford, see Wilberforce

Boards for elementary education, 188

Bojanus, 173

Bones of horse, 71, 72

Bones, cartilage, and membrane, 134

Books, value of, 175

Booth, "General," 213

Bourbon, 246

Brahma, 272

Brain of man and apes, 120, 145, 146, 162, 163

Brain and mind, 220, 221

Brain-weights, 164

Breathing, 168

Breeding, selective, 127

Brehm, 153

British Association, 68, 120, 125, 274

Brooks, Professor W.K., 94

Buckland, Professor, 80, 234

Buddhists, 1, 272

Buffon, 15, 90

Burnett, Sir William, 11, 46

Busk, George, 49

C

Cabanis, 228

Cæsar, 265

Cana, miracle at, 257

Cape York, 25

Carinates, 137

Carlyle, Thomas, 111

Cartesian axiom, 222

Cartilage bones, 134

Cartilaginous skulls, 134

Catastrophism in geology, 80, 249

Catholicism, 123, 214, 247

Cells, 52, 53

Cephalous molluscs, 58, 59

Chalk, 266

Challenger expedition, 15

Chalmers, Dr. Thomas, 80

Chambers, R., 62

Chamisso, 53, 56

Chance, 229

Change in universe, 249

Charing Cross Hospital, 8, 9

Chaucer, 213

Chemistry and alchemy, 257

Chess, life compared with, 169

Children, education of, 189

Chimpanzees, 149, 163

Chondrocranium, 134

Christianity and evolution, 122

Christian civilisation and authority, 232

Chronology of the Bible, 247

Church of England, 111, 112

Church, the, and science, 236

Classical education, 185, 210

Classification of birds, 135

Classification by Cuvier, 38

Classification by Linnæus, 38

Classification of mammals, 142

Classification of man, 146

Classification by old authors, 37

Classification of vertebrates, 143

Clergy as critics of science, 236

Clericalism, 239, 284

Clodd, E., 90, 127

Cœlenterata, 42, 96

Cœlomata, 43, 44

Commissions, royal, 195, 204

Common sense and metaphysics, 218

Common sense and science, 209

Conduct and religion, 261

Congo, 149

Conscience, 269

Conscientiousness, 280

Consciousness, 220, 224

Contemporaneity, geological, 79

Continuity of nature, 255

Cookery in schools, 190

Cope, Professor, 69, 94

Corals of Barrier Reef, 20

"Corybantic Christianity," 215

Cosmic process, 268, 270, 271

Cosmogony of the Hebrews, 244, 246

Cosmos, 229, 263, 265, 267, 272

Cowper-Temple Clause, 188

Crayfish, 158, 173, 277

Creation, 139, 246, 252

Creator, the, 250

Credibility of authority, 232

Criticism, Biblical, 194

Criticism of life, 185

Croonian lectures, 65, 129

Ctenophora, 42

Culture and science, 185, 186

Curriculum of medical education, 184

Cuttle-fish, 58

Cuvier, 6, 38, 115, 132, 133, 136, 209, 211

D

Darwin, Charles, 27-29, 60, 61, 68, chapters viii. and ix., 138, 147, 166, 229, 242

Darwin medal, 108

Darwin, voyage of, 27, 28

Darwin, Erasmus, 90

Darwinism, 103, 104, 106, 123

Darwinism, Huxley's late and early opinions on, 106-109

Darwinism and Lamarckism, 94

"Days" of creation, 251, 252

De la Beche, Sir Henry, 63, 64

Deluge, the, 235

Descartes, 219, 240, 243

Design, argument from, 230

Despotism and the Bible, 245

Devonian fishes, 68

Deuteronomy, 245

Dinosaurs and the ancestry of birds, 69

Diprotodonts, 142

Dissection in laboratories, 181

Divine will and science, 233

Doctrine of the Deluge, 235

Dogma and literature in the Bible, 254

Doliolum, 56

Domestic economy, 190

Doubt, duty of, 232, 239, 269

Drawing for children, 193

Dredging, 22

Drill for children, 189

Durckheim, Strauss, 173

E

Earth, age of, 84, 85

Eastbourne, 277

Ecclesiasticism, 235, 239

Echidna, 156

Economy, domestic, 190

Edinburgh, 174

Edinburgh Review, 115, 116

Education, classical, 185, 210

Education of children, 170

Education, elementary, 187, 188

Education, general, 184

Education, liberal, 169, 186, 210

Education, medical, 181

Education and religion, 188

Education, scientific, 168

Education of teachers, 195

Education, university, 195

Eggs of Mammalia, 156

Egypt, 276

Ejects, 221

Elementary education, 188

Elementary lessons in physiology, 172

Embryology and zoölogy, 177

Embryology of brain and skull, 130-133 Embryology of Mammals, 156, 157

Embryology of man, 159

Embryos, marine, 176

Embryos of vertebrates, 157

Endostyle of Ascidians, 56

England in eighteenth century, 239

English Bible, 245

English men of letters, 218

English philosophers, 218

Eohippus, 78

Erdkunde, 170, 171

Error, 243

Established church and Education, 189

Ether, 219

Ethics and evolution, 263

Ethical process, 265

Eutheria, 142

Evidence, limitations of, 231

Evidence for miraculous, 258

Evil, 268, 269, 271

Evolution, 60, 62, 63, 108, 110, 122, 168, 248

Evolution and Christianity, 122

Evolution of Cosmos, 250-253

Evolution not an explanation of Cosmos, 229

Evolution and Darwinism, 94

Evolution before Darwin, 91, 93, 100

Evolution, Darwin's contribution to, 93, 104

Evolution and ethics, 263

Evolution of horse, 73

Evolution and natural selection, 124-127

Evolution and pain, 268

Evolution, philosophy of, 272

Evolution and palæontology, 86, 87

Evolution and Theism, 244

Evolutionist, 281

Exposition, Huxley's method of, 208

F

Faith, agnostic, 243

Falkenstein, 153

Fayrer, Sir Joseph, 10, 11

Feet of anthropoids, 164

Fertility of artificial breeds, 127

Fiddle, 278

Fisgard, H.M.S., 46

Fish, fossil, 68

Fisheries, Inspector of, 277

Flower, Sir William, 146

Forbes, Edward, 47, 63

Foreign languages, 196, 213

Forms of Animal Life, 178

Fossils, 67, 68

Fossils, chronological arrangement of, 87

Fossils and evolution, 87

Foundation membranes of Medusæ, 40-43

Foster, Sir Michael, 47, 64, 180, 283

Freedom of the Press, 240

Freedom of thought, 231, 233

French, 213

French Revolution, 111

French translations, 216

Fullerian Professor, 64

Function, changes in, 230

G

Galileo, 247

Gallinaceous birds, 139

Gambit, 169

Game of life, 170

Garden, as an instance of interference with cosmic process, 267

Garnier, 151

Gasteropoda, 58

Gegenbauer, 59

Genesis, 234, 248, 250, 251, 252

Geographical distribution, 137-141

Geological addresses, 79, 80

Geological club, 234 Geological contemporaneity, 79

Geological history, 249

Geological Society of London, 70, 78, 80, 86

Geological time, 84, 85

Geology and the Bible, 80

Geology and catastrophism, 80, 81

Geology compared with biology, 82

Geology, history of, 234

German, 213

Gibbons, 149

Girls, education of, 190

Glacial acetic acid, 176

Gladstone, W.E., 248, 250, 251, 263

Goethe, 99, 130, 132

Goethe, quotations from, 130

Gold, transmutation of, 256

Goodness, 269, 273

Gorilla, 87, 149, 161

Gospels, 254

Gosse, P.H., 118

Government, 239

Greek, 213;
  in education, 186

Greek ethics, 269

Groos, Prof., 154

H

Haeckel, Prof. E., 91, 136

Hands of Anthropoids, 164

Haslar Hospital, 11, 12

Heathorn, Miss H.A., 19

Hebrew Cosmogony, 246

Hebrew Morality, 259

Hebrew Scriptures, 250

Heine, 261

Henle and Meissner, reports of, 182

Hercules, 246

Hertwig, 134

Hindustan, 269

Hipparion, 74-76

Hippocampus minor, 162, 163

Histological methods, 177

Hobbes, 218

Home office, 277

Homo, classification of, 160

Homology in organs of Medusæ, 123

Homotaxis in geology, 80

Hooker, Sir Joseph Dalton, 47, 98, 101

Horse, 68-78, 174

Hospitals in London, 181

Howes, Professor G.B., 173, 174, 207, 277

Humboldt, 92

Hume, David, 217, 218, 223, 240, 255, 256

Hume, David, quotations from, 223, 241, 256

Humour, 209

Hunterian Professor, 129

Hutton, James, 81, 249

Huxley, birth, 2;
  parents, 2, 3;
  school, 4;
  apprenticed to medicine, 5;
  enters Charing Cross Hospital, 8;
  first original paper, 9;
  graduates at London University, 10;
  becomes M.R.C.S., 11;
  appointed to Haslar Hospital, 11;
  appointed to Rattlesnake, 12;
  meets his future wife at Sydney, 19;
  first paper to Royal Society, 33;
  Royal medals, 34;
  becomes F.R.S., 47;
  leaves naval service, 48;
  appointed to Geological Survey and School of Mines, 63;
  becomes Fullerian Professor, 64;
  marriage, 64;
  examiner, 65;
  Croonian lecturer, 66;
  visits America, 70;
  becomes Secretary and President of Geological Society, 78;
  accepts Darwinism, 101;
  receives Darwin medal, 108;
  becomes Hunterian Professor,129;
  starts laboratory courses at South Kensington, 180;
  becomes candidate for London School Board, 189;
  serves on Royal Commissions,196, 204;
  becomes member of Her Majesty's Privy Council, 205;
  marriage, 274;
  ill-health and retirement, 276;
  death, 277;
  personal appearance, 277

Huxley's layer in root-sheath of hairs, 10

Hydra, 50

Hypothesis as to History of Nature, 248, 249

I

Ichthyopsida, 143

Idealism, 220, 224

Ideals and culture, 186

Indian speculation, 269

Individuality of animals, 49, 50, 51, 52, 55

Infallibility, 123, 236

Inspiration, 246, 247, 253, 254

Instincts, 154

Intellect, 243

Intermediate and linear types, 87

International Scientific Series, 173

Invertebrata, Manual of, 175

Ionia, 169

Israel, 245

J

Jermyn Street lectures to working men, 207

Johnson, Samuel, 219

Judaism and science, 246

Justice, 265, 269, 271, 273

K

Kant, 84, 242, 262

Karma, 269

Kelvin, Lord, 84

Knowledge and authority, 104, 105

Kölliker, 49, 59

Kowalevsky, 57

L

Laboratory work, 177, 179, 180

Labyrinthodonts, 69

Lamarck, 90, 91, 97

Lamarckism and Darwinism, 94, 97

Languages, modern, 6, 7

Lankester, Professor E. Ray, 57, 60, 94, 180, 277, 282

Larvæ, 158

Latin, 186, 213

Law-courts and evidence, 231

Lawrence, Sir W., 144

Lectures at the School of Mines, 180

Lemurs, 163

Leutemann, 153

Leverrier, 209

Leviticus, 245

Liberal education, 228

Life, origin of, 227, 228

Limbs of Man and Gorilla, 162

Linear and intermediate types, 87

Linnæan Society of London, 33, 49, 115, 138, 145

Linnæus, 38, 234

Literary culture, 186

Literary Gazette, 48

Literary style, 211, 212, 213, 214, 215

Literature, the Bible as, 254

Liverpool, 169

Living bodies, nature of, 228

Locke, 224

Lockyer, Sir Norman, 211

London, medical education in, 181

London, school board of, 189

Loyola, 262

Loxomma, 69

Lucas, Mr., 113

Luther, 262

Lyell, Sir Charles, 81, 91, 98, 144, 234, 249

Lyonet, 173

M

MacGillivray, John, 16, 17, 282

MacGillivray, William, 16, 100

Macmillan and Co., 171

Magna Charta, the Bible as, 245

Mammalia, classification of, 142

Man and the Apes, 155

Man, classification of, 146

Man and Gorilla, 161

Man, origin of, 144

Man and the Apes, 165

Man's Place in Nature, 147, 148

Manes and Manicheism, 265

Mantle of molluscs, 58

Manual of the Anatomy of Invertebrated Animals, 175

Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals, 175

Marine embryos, 176

Marmosets, 163

Marriage, 19, 274

Marsh, Professor, 70-78

Marsupials, 141

Mason, Sir Josiah, 185

Materialism, 217, 220, 222, 225, 227

Matter and ideas, 224

Matter, nature of, 219-221

Matthew, Patrick, 100

Mauritius, 18

Medical education, 167, 181, 184

Medical students, 181, 279

Medusæ, 33, 39, 40, 41, 42, 96, 123

Membrane bones, 134

Mental capacity of apes, 152

Mercy, 265

Mertens, 56

Mesohippus, 77

Metals, transmutation of, 257

Metaphysics, 241

Metaphysics and science, 217

Metatheria, 142

Methods in histology, 177

Microscope, 32, 176

Microtomes, 177

Milton, 213

Mind and body, 220

Mind, growth of, 210

Miohippus, 76

Miracles, 246, 254-259

Missionary spirit, 262

Mitral valve, 175

Mivart, Dr. St. George, 246-248

Modern spirit, 241

Modification of species, 92

Mollusca, 56, 58, 59, 60, 61, 96

Morality and religion, 237, 238

Morality of Stoics, 238

Morley, John, 217, 260

Mosaic Deluge, 235

Moseley, Professor H.N., 15

Mucous layer of germ, 43

Müller, Johannes, 6, 37, 56

Music, 278

N

Naples, International Zoölogical Station at, 176

Naturalism, 226

Natural selection, 94, 99, 100, 103, 105, 124-127

Nature, continuity of, 255

Nature, history of, 248

Nature, state of, 266

Nature, 211

Naval Architecture and Timber, 100

Nebular hypothesis, 230

Newman, Cardinal, 240

New Testament, 253, 254

Nirvana, 272

Noah's Deluge, 235

Notochord, 134

Notogœa, 140

O

Oken, 130, 132, 133

Old Testament, 90

Omar, 272

Optimism, 270

Orangs, 149

Order of nature, 255, 258

Organic versus Inorganic, 229

Organon, 242

Origin of species, 89, 95, 101, 102, 110

Origin of Species, reviews of, 113, 114, 115, 146

Ormuzd, 265

Ornithology, 136

Ornithorhynchus, 156

Ornithoscelida, 69

Orohippus, 77

Orthodoxy, 246

Owen, Sir Richard, 65, 66, 115, 118-121, 131, 133, 136, 145, 146, 162

Oxford, 120, 125, 263, 264

Oxford, Bishop of, see Wilberforce

P

Pain, 268, 270, 271

Palæontology and evolution, 68, 86

Palæotherium, 74

Paley, 230

Pascal, 122

Payment of teachers by results, 195

Pelagic life, 30, 31

Pelvis of man and gorilla, 161

Pentateuch, 234, 244

Pessimism, 270

Phillips, Professor, 69

Philosophic Zoölogique, 97, 98

Philosophy, Huxley's advice on, 218

Phosphorescence, 55

Physical education, 189

Physical geography, 170

Physics of Aristotle, 100

Physiography, 171

Physiology, 172

Pigafetta, 149

Pigmies, 149

Pioneers of Evolution, 127

Plankton, 30, 31

Plato's Archetypes, 59

Plato's philosophy, 224

Pliohippus, 76

"Portuguese man-of-war," 41, 50

Possibilities in logic, 258

Poulton, Professor E.B., 109, 127

Prayer, efficacy of, 258

Priestley, Joseph, 239

Primers of science, 171

Primitive groove, 135

Principles of Geology, 234

Professional education, 183

Protestantism, 123, 233, 235, 236

Protestant churches and knowledge, 247

Protestants and the Bible, 247

Protohippus, 74

Protoplasm, 52, 228

Prototheria, 142

Psychology, 227

Pterodactyls, 69

Pteropods, 56

Pyrosoma, 55

Q

Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, 49

Quarterly Review, 115, 116, 117

R

Rabbinical maxim of inspiration, 247

Radiata of Cuvier, 38

Rathke, 65

Ratites, 137

Rattlesnake, H.M.S., 13, 20, 21, 46, 282

Reade lecture, 146

Reason, age of, 239

Reformation, New, 284

Reformation, Protestant, 122, 233

Religion in education, 188, 191

Religion and morality, 237, 238

Religion and science, 120, 259

Religion, teaching, 191

Results, payment by, 195

Retina and light, 219

Revelation, 260

Revolution, French, 111

Richardson, Sir John, 12

Rights of man, 245

Robertson, Charles, 179

Rolleston, Professor, 152, 153, 266

Romanes, Professor, 152, 153, 263

Romanes lecture, 263

Rome, 247

Roscoe, Professor, 171

Rosse, Earl of, 34

Royal College of Science, 176, 180, 204, 274, 277

Royal College of Surgeons, 11, 129, 132

Royal Commissions, 204, 274

Royal Institution, 49, 52, 62, 64

Royal Society, 33, 34, 47, 49, 53, 58, 108, 129, 276

Rutherford, Professor, 180

S

Salisbury, Marquis of, 125

"Sally," the chimpanzee, 153

Salps, 50, 53, 54, 55, 96

Salt, Dr., 5

Sauropsida, 143

Saururæ, 136

Savages, 23, 24, 165

Sawyer, Bob, 184

Scepticism, 240

Schematic mollusc, 60

School boards, 188, 189

School of Mines, 180

Schwann, 52

Science and Art Department, 195

Science and culture, 185

Science and Judaism, 246

Science and medical education, 184

Science and metaphysics, 217

Science and religion, 259

Science and the Christian Tradition, 248

Science and the Hebrew Tradition, 248

Science primers, 171

Scientific education, 168

Sclater, P.L., 138, 139, 142

Scottish universities, 167

Scriptures, 246

Section-cutting, 177

Secular education, 191, 194

Sedgwick, Professor Adam, 80, 115

Segmentation of eggs, 157

Segmentation of skull, 133

Selection and education, 190

Selective breeding, 103

Semite, ethics of, 269

Septuagint, 251

Serous layer of germ, 43

Sheldonian theatre, 264

Singing for children, 193

Skepsis, thätige, of Goethe, 99

Skull of vertebrates, 65, 129, 130, 131, 132

Socrates, 243

Southern hemisphere, former land in, 141

Speaking, public, 208

Species, 92, 98, 106, 107, 108, 125, 126, 127

Specialists as teachers, 182

Spencer, Herbert, 91, 94, 123

Sponges, 42

Spontaneity of living matter, 228

Stanley, Captain Owen, 12, 13

State of nature, 266

Stevenson, R.L., quotation from, 174

Stewart, Professor Balfour, 171

Stoic morality, 192, 238

Stoics, 238, 269, 272

Struggle for existence, 93, 94, 95, 104, 266, 267, 271

Style, analysis of, 211, 212

Suarez, Father, 214

Substance of mind and matter, 223

Supernaturalism, 226

Superstition, 242

Survival of the fittest, 93, 94, 104

Suspensoria of jaws, 133

Switzerland, 275

Sydney, 19, 32

Synoptic Gospels, 254

T

Tapirs, 78

Teachers, education of, 195

Teeth of anthropoids, 149

Teeth of the horse, 73

Teleology, 230

Temper, 278

Theism and evolution, 244

Theology, 259

Theology in education, 191

Theoretical work in medical education, 184

Thomas, Oldfield, 142

Thomson, Sir W., now Lord Kelvin, q.v.

Thread-cells of Medusæ, 41

Time required for evolution, 84, 85

Times, the London, 66, 108, 113

Todd and Bowman's Cyclopædia of Anatomy, 49

Toronto, University of, 48

Tow-net material, 31

Transmigration, 269

Transmutation of species, 99

Treatise on Human Nature, 240

Tree of evolution, 35

Tyndall, Professor John, 47, 48, 275

Types, 36, 96, 166

Types for laboratory dissection, 178, 180, 181

Types, intermediate and linear, 165

U

Uniformitarianism in geology, 81, 240

University education, 195

University of London, 65

University of Toronto, 48

V

Variation in anatomy, 166

Verification, method of, 179

Vertebræ, structure of, 131

Vertebral theory of the skull, 129-132

Vertebrata, 128

Vertebrata, ancestors of, 57

Vertebrata, classification of, 43

Vertebrata, embryos of, 157

Vestiges of Creation, 63, 97

Vivisection, 205

Voltaire, 260

Von Baer, 37, 43, 62, 96

Voyage of Beagle, 28

Voyage of Challenger, 15

Voyage of Rattlesnake, 20, 21

W

Wallace, Alfred Russel, 95, 101, 271

Weight of brains, 164

Weismann, Professor A., 94

Wells, W.C., 100

Westminster Review, 107, 114

Wharton Jones, Dr., 9, 37

Whewell, 115

Wilberforce, Samuel, Bishop of Oxford, 115, 116, 117, 118, 120, 121

Willey, Arthur, 57

Wine miracle at Cana, 257

Wollaston, 98

Words, use of, 213, 214

Workmen, lectures to, 207

Y

York, Archbishop of, 234

Z

Zoölogical Society, 138

Zoölogical science and laboratories, 177

Zoölogist, Huxley as a, 283

Zoölogy, 173

Zoöphytes, 40

The Story of the Nations.

Messrs. G.P. Putnam's Sons take pleasure in announcing that they have in course of publication,
in co-operation with Mr. T. Fisher Unwin, of London, a series of historical studies, intended
to present in a graphic manner the stories of the different nations that have attained prominence
in history.

In the story form the current of each national life is distinctly indicated, and its picturesque
and noteworthy periods and episodes are presented for the reader in their philosophical relation
to each other as well as to universal history.

It is the plan of the writers of the different volumes to enter into the real life of the peoples,
and to bring them before the reader as they actually lived, labored, and struggled--as they
studied and wrote, and as they amused themselves. In carrying out this plan, the myths, with
which the history of all lands begins, will not be overlooked, though these will be carefully
distinguished from the actual history, so far as the labors of the accepted historical authorities
have resulted in definite conclusions.

The subjects of the different volumes have been planned to cover connecting and, as far as
possible, consecutive epochs or periods, so that the set when completed will present in a comprehensive
narrative the chief events in the great STORY OF THE NATIONS; but it is, of course, not always
practicable to issue the several volumes in their chronological order.

THE STORY OF THE NATIONS.

The "Stories" are printed in good readable type, and in handsome 12mo form. They are adequately
illustrated and furnished with maps and indexes. Price per vol., cloth, $1.50; half morocco,
gilt top, $1.75.

The following are now ready:

GREECE. Prof. Jas. A. Harrison. ROME. Arthur Gilman. THE JEWS. Prof. James K. Hosmer. CHALDEA.
Z.A. Ragozin. GERMANY. S. Baring-Gould. NORWAY. Hjalmar H. Boyesen. SPAIN. Rev. E.E. and Susan
Hale. HUNGARY. Prof. A. Vámbéry. CARTHAGE. Prof. Alfred J. Church. THE SARACENS. Arthur Gilman.
THE MOORS IN SPAIN. Stanley Lane-Poole. THE NORMANS. Sarah Orne Jewett. PERSIA. S.G.W. Benjamin.
ANCIENT EGYPT. Prof. Geo. Rawlinson. ALEXANDER'S EMPIRE. Prof. J.P. Mahaffy. ASSYRIA. Z.A.
Ragozin. THE GOTHS. Henry Bradley. IRELAND. Hon. Emily Lawless. TURKEY. Stanley Lane-Poole.
MEDIA, BABYLON, AND PERSIA. Z.A. Ragozin. MEDIÆVAL FRANCE. Prof. Gustave Masson. HOLLAND. Prof.
J. Thorold Rogers. MEXICO. Susan Hale. PHŒNICIA. Geo. Rawlinson. THE HANSA TOWNS. Helen Zimmern.
EARLY BRITAIN. Prof. Alfred J. Church. THE BARBARY CORSAIRS. Stanley Lane-Pool. RUSSIA. W.R.
Morfill. THE JEWS UNDER ROME. W.D. Morrison. SCOTLAND. John Mackintosh. SWITZERLAND. R. Stead
and Mrs. A. Hug. PORTUGAL. H. Morse-Stephens. THE BYZANTINE EMPIRE. C.W.C. Oman. SICILY. E.A.
Freeman. THE TUSCAN REPUBLICS. Bella Duffy. POLAND. W.R. Morfill. PARTHIA. Geo. Rawlinson.
JAPAN. David Murray. THE CHRISTIAN RECOVERY OF SPAIN. H.E. Watts. AUSTRALASIA. Greville Tregarthen.
SOUTHERN AFRICA. Geo. M. Theal. VENICE. Alethea Wiel. THE CRUSADES. T.S. Archer and C.L. Kingsford.
VEDIC INDIA. Z.A. Ragozin. BOHEMIA. C.E. Maurice. CANADA. J.G. Bourinot. THE BALKAN STATES.
William Miller. BRITISH RULE IN INDIA. R.W. Frazer. MODERN FRANCE. André Le Bon. THE BUILDING
OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE. Alfred T. Story. Two vols. THE FRANKS. Lewis Sergeant. THE WEST INDIES.
Amos K. Fiske. THE PEOPLE OF ENGLAND IN THE 19TH CENTURY. Justin McCarthy, M.P. Two vols. AUSTRIA,
THE HOME OF THE HAPSBURG DYNASTY, FROM 1282 TO THE PRESENT DAY. Sidney Whitman.

CHINA. Robt. K. Douglass. MODERN SPAIN. Major Martin A.S. Hume. MODERN ITALY. Pietro Orsi.
THE THIRTEEN COLONIES. Helen A. Smith. Two vols.

Other volumes in preparation are:

THE UNITED STATES, 1775-1897. Prof. A.C. McLaughlin. Two vols. BUDDHIST INDIA. Prof. T.W. Rhys-Davids.
MOHAMMEDAN INDIA. Stanley Lane-Poole. WALES AND CORNWALL. Owen M. Edwards

Heroes of the Nations.

EDITED BY

EVELYN ABBOTT, M.A.,

FELLOW OF BALLIOL COLLEGE, OXFORD.

A series of biographical studies of the lives and work of a number of representative historical
characters about whom have gathered the great traditions of the Nations to which they belonged,
and who have been accepted, in many instances, as types of the several National ideals. With
the life of each typical character will be presented a picture of the National conditions surrounding
him during his career.

The narratives are the work of writers who are recognized authorities on their several subjects,
and, while thoroughly trustworthy as history, will present picturesque and dramatic "stories"
of the Men and of the events connected with them.

To the Life of each "Hero" will be given one duodecimo volume, handsomely printed in large
type, provided with maps and adequately illustrated according to the special requirements of
the several subjects. The volumes will be sold separately as follows:

Large 12^o, cloth extra              $1 50 Half morocco, uncut edges, gilt top  1 75

HEROES OF THE NATIONS.

The volumes will be sold separately as follows: cloth extra, $1.50; half leather, uncut edges,
gilt top, $1.75.

The following are now ready:

NELSON. By W. Clark Russell. GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS. By C.R.L. Fletcher. PERICLES. By Evelyn Abbott.
THEODORIC THE GOTH. By Thomas Hodgkin. SIR PHILIP SIDNEY. By. H.R. Fox-Bourne. JULIUS CÆSAR.
By W. Warde Fowler. WYCLIF. By Lewis Sergeant. NAPOLEON. By W. O'Connor Morris. HENRY OF NAVARRE.
By P.F. Willert. CICERO. By J.L. Strachan-Davidson. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By Noah Brooks. PRINCE
HENRY (OF PORTUGAL) THE NAVIGATOR. By C.R. Beazley. JULIAN THE PHILOSOPHER. By Alice Gardner.
LOUIS XIV. By Arthur Hassall. CHARLES XII. By R. Nisbet Bain. LORENZO DE' MEDICI. By Edward
Armstrong. JEANNE D'ARC. By Mrs. Oliphant. CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS. By Washington Irving. ROBERT
THE BRUCE. By Sir Herbert Maxwell. HANNIBAL. By W. O'Connor Morris. ULYSSES S. GRANT. By William
Conant Church. ROBERT E. LEE. By Henry Alexander White. THE CID CAMPEADOR. By H. Butler Clarke.
SALADIN. By Stanley Lane-Poole. BISMARCK. By J.W. Headlam. ALEXANDER THE GREAT. By Benjamin
I. Wheeler. CHARLEMAGNE. By H.W.C. Davis. OLIVER CROMWELL. By Charles Firth. RICHELIEU. By
James B. Perkins. DANIEL O'CONNELL. By Robert Dunlop. SAINT LOUIS (Louis IX., of France). By
Frederick Perry. LORD CHATHAM. By Walford Davis Green.

Other volumes in preparation are:

MOLTKE. By Spencer Wilkinson. JUDAS MACCABÆUS. By Israel Abrahams. HENRY V. By Charles L. Kingsford.
SOBIESKI. By F.A. Pollard. ALFRED THE TRUTHTELLER. By Frederick Perry. FREDERICK II. By A.L.
Smith. MARLBOROUGH. By C.W.C. Oman. RICHARD THE LION-HEARTED. By T.A. Archer. WILLIAM THE SILENT.
By Ruth Putnam. JUSTINIAN. By Edward Jenks.

G.P. PUTNAM'S SONS, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK AND LONDON.

