"
Snorri said, "I set a great store by my errand turning out well and that it might be brought
about which I have most at heart, that a sound peace should be settled between you kinsmen;
for I know the minds of the men who have to deal with you in this case so well, that they will
keep faithfully to whatever terms of peace they agree to." [Sidenote: Kjartan's brothers pay
weregild for Bolli] Halldor said, "I will undertake this, if it be the wish of my brothers,
to pay money for the slaying of Bolli, such as shall be awarded by the umpires chosen, but
I bargain that there be no outlawing of anybody concerned, nor forfeiture of my chieftainship
or estate; the same claim I make in respect of the estates my brothers are possessed of, and
I make a point of their being left free owners thereof whatever be the close of this case,
each side to choose their own umpire." Snorri answered, "This is offered well and frankly,
and the brothers will take this choice if they are willing to set any store by my counsel."
Thereupon Snorri rode home and told the brothers the outcome of his errand, and that he would
keep altogether aloof from their case if they would not agree to this. Bolli bade him have
his own way, "And I wish that you, Snorri, be umpire on our behalf." Then Snorri sent to Halldor
to say that peaceful settlement was agreed to, and he bade them choose an umpire against himself.
Halldor chose on his behalf Steinthor Thorlakson of Eyr. The peace meeting should be at Drangar
on Shawstrand, when four weeks of summer were passed. Thorleik Bollison rode to Holyfell, and
nothing to tell tidings of befell that winter, and when time wore unto the hour bespoken for
the meeting, Snorri the Priest came there with the sons of Bolli, fifteen together in all;
Steinthor and his came with the same number of men to the meeting. Snorri and Steinthor talked
together and came to an agreement about these matters. After that they gave out the award,
but it is not told how much money they awarded; this, however, is told, that the money was
readily paid and the peace well holden to. At the Thorness Thing the fines were paid out; Halldor
gave Bolli a good sword, and Steinthor Olafson gave Thorleik a shield, which was also a good
gift. Then the Thing was broken up, and both sides were thought to have gained in esteem from
these affairs.

CHAP. LXXII

Bolli and Thorleik go abroad, A. D. 1029

[Sidenote: Bolli wishes to leave Iceland] After the peace between Bolli and Thorleik and the
sons of Olaf had been settled and Thorleik had been one winter in Iceland, Bolli made it known
that he was minded to go abroad. Snorri, dissuading him, said, "To us it seems there is a great
risk to be run as to how you may speed; but if you wish to have in hand more than you have
now, I will get you a manor and stock it for you; therewithal I shall hand over to you chieftainship
over men and uphold you for honours in all things; and that, I know, will be easy, seeing that
most men bear you good-will." Bolli said, "I have long had it in my mind to go for once into
southern lands; for a man is deemed to grow benighted if he learns to know nothing farther
afield than what is to be seen here in Iceland." And when Snorri saw that Bolli had set his
mind on this, and that it would come to nought to try to stop him, he bade him take as much
money as he liked for his journey. Bolli was all for having plenty of money, "for I will not,"
he said, "be beholden to any man either here or in any foreign land." [Sidenote: Bolli goes
with Thorleik] Then Bolli rode south to Burgfirth to White-river and bought half of a ship
from the owners, so that he and his brother became joint owners of the same ship. Bolli then
rides west again to his home. He and Thordis had one daughter whose name was Herdis, and that
maiden Gudrun asked to bring up. She was one year old when she went to Holyfell. Thordis also
spent a great deal of her time there, for Gudrun was very fond of her.

CHAP. LXXIII

Bolli's Voyage

Now the brothers went both to their ship. Bolli took a great deal of money abroad with him.
They now arrayed the ship, and when everything was ready they put out to sea. The winds did
not speed them fast, and they were a long time out at sea, but got to Norway in the autumn,
and made Thrandheim in the north. Olaf, the king, was in the east part of the land, in the
Wick, where he had made ingatherings for a stay through the winter. [Sidenote: They come to
Norway] And when the brothers heard that the king would not come north to Thrandheim that autumn,
Thorleik said he would go east along the land to meet King Olaf. Bolli said, "I have little
wish to drift about between market towns in autumn days; to me that is too much of worry and
restraint. I will rather stay for the winter in this town. I am told the king will come north
in the spring, and if he does not then I shall not set my face against our going to meet him."
Bolli has his way in the matter, and they put up their ship and got their winter quarters.
It was soon seen that Bolli was a very pushing man, and would be the first among other men;
and in that he had his way, for a bounteous man was he, and so got speedily to be highly thought
of in Norway. Bolli kept a suite about him during the winter at Thrandheim, and it was easily
seen, when he went to the guild meeting-places, that his men were both better arrayed as to
raiment and weapons than other townspeople. He alone also paid for all his suite when they
sat drinking in guild halls, and on a par with this were his openhandedness and lordly ways
in other matters. Now the brothers stay in the town through the winter. That winter the king
sat east in Sarpsborg, and news spread from the east that the king was not likely to come north.
Early in the spring the brothers got their ship ready and went east along the land. [Sidenote:
They stay with King Olaf] The journey sped well for them, and they got east to Sarpsborg, and
went forthwith to meet King Olaf. The king gave a good welcome to Thorleik, his henchman, and
his followers. Then the king asked who was that man of stately gait in the train of Thorleik;
and Thorleik answered, "He is my brother, and is named Bolli." "He looks, indeed, a man of
high mettle," said the king. Thereupon the king asks the brothers to come and stay with him,
and that offer they took with thanks, and spend the spring with the king. The king was as kind
to Thorleik as he had been before, yet he held Bolli by much in greater esteem, for he deemed
him even peerless among men. And as the spring went on, the brothers took counsel together
about their journeys. And Thorleik asked Bolli if he was minded to go back to Iceland during
the summer, "or will you stay on longer here in Norway?" Bolli answered, "I do not mean to
do either. And sooth to say, when I left Iceland, my thought was settled on this, that people
should not be asking for news of me from the house next door; and now I wish, brother, that
you take over our ship." Thorleik took it much to heart that they should have to part. "But
you, Bolli, will have your way in this as in other things." Their matter thus bespoken they
laid before the king, and he answered thus: "Will you not tarry with us any longer, Bolli?"
said the king. "I should have liked it best for you to stay with me for a while, for I shall
grant you the same title that I granted to Thorleik, your brother." Then Bolli answered: "I
should be only too glad to bind myself to be your henchman, but I must go first whither I am
already bent, and have long been eager to go, but this choice I will gladly take if it be fated
to me to come back." "You will have your way as to your journeyings, Bolli," says the king,
"for you Icelanders are self-willed in most matters. But with this word I must close, that
I think you, Bolli, the man of greatest mark that has ever come from Iceland in my days." [Sidenote:
Bolli goes to Denmark] And when Bolli had got the king's leave he made ready for his journey,
and went on board a round ship that was bound south for Denmark. He also took a great deal
of money with him, and sundry of his followers bore him company. He and King Olaf parted in
great friendship, and the king gave Bolli some handsome gifts at parting. Thorleik remained
behind with King Olaf, but Bolli went on his way till he came south to Denmark. That winter
he tarried in Denmark, and had great honour there of mighty men; nor did he bear himself there
in any way less lordly than while he was in Norway. When Bolli had been a winter in Denmark
he started on his journey out into foreign countries, and did not halt in his journey till
he came to Micklegarth (Constantinople). He was there only a short time before he got himself
into the Varangian Guard, and, from what we have heard, no Northman had ever gone to take war-pay
from the Garth king before Bolli, Bolli's son. He tarried in Micklegarth very many winters,
and was thought to be the most valiant in all deeds that try a man, and always went next to
those in the forefront. The Varangians accounted Bolli most highly of whilst he was with them
in Micklegarth.

CHAP. LXXIV

Thorkell Eyjolfson goes to Norway

