There was a crush of people at the entrance to see the royals make their exit. Gendarmes were
busy, and mounted guards went smashing through the crowd to clear a space. Everybody was on
the tiptoe of expectation. There is a portion of the Emperor's guard; there is an officer of
the household; there is an emblazoned carriage; and, quick, there! with a rush they come, driving
as if there was no crowd, with imperial haste, postilions and outriders and the imperial carriage.
There is a sensation, a cordial and not loud greeting, but no Yankee-like cheers. That heavy
gentleman in citizen's dress, who looks neither to right nor left, is Napoleon III.; that handsome
woman, grown full in the face of late, but yet with the bloom of beauty and the sweet grace
of command, in hat and dark riding-habit, bowing constantly to right and left, and smiling,
is the Empress Eugenie. And they are gone. As we look for something more, there is a rout in
the side avenue; something is coming, unexpected, from another quarter: dragoons dash through
the dense mass, shouting and gesticulating, and a dozen horses go by, turning the corner like
a small whirlwind, urged on by whip and spur, a handsome boy riding in the midst,--a boy in
cap and simple uniform, riding gracefully and easily and jauntily, and out of sight in a minute.
It is the boy Prince Imperial and his guard. It was like him to dash in unexpectedly, as he
has broken into the line of European princes. He rides gallantly, and Fortune smiles on him
to-day; but he rides into a troubled future. There was one more show,--a carriage of the Emperor,
with officers, in English colors and side-whiskers, riding in advance and behind: in it the
future King of England, the heavy, selfish-faced young man, and beside him his princess, popular
wherever she shows her winning face,--a fair, sweet woman, in light and flowing silken stuffs
of spring, a vision of lovely youth and rank, also gone in a minute.

These English visitors are enjoying the pleasures of the French capital. On Sunday, as I passed
the Hotel Bristol, a crowd, principally English, was waiting in front of it to see the Prince
and Princess come out, and enter one of the Emperor's carriages in waiting. I heard an Englishwoman,
who was looking on with admiration "sticking out" all over, remark to a friend in a very loud
whisper, "I tell you, the Prince lives every day of his life." The princely pair came out at
length, and drove away, going to visit Versailles. I don't know what the Queen would think
of this way of spending Sunday; but if Albert Edward never does anything worse, he does n't
need half the praying for that he gets every Sunday in all the English churches and chapels.

THE LOW COUNTRIES AND RHINELAND

AMIENS AND QUAINT OLD BRUGES

They have not yet found out the secret in France of banishing dust from railway-carriages.
Paris, late in June, was hot, but not dusty: the country was both. There is an uninteresting
glare and hardness in a French landscape on a sunny day. The soil is thin, the trees are slender,
and one sees not much luxury or comfort. Still, one does not usually see much of either on
a flying train. We spent a night at Amiens, and had several hours for the old cathedral, the
sunset light on its noble front and towers and spire and flying buttresses, and the morning
rays bathing its rich stone. As one stands near it in front, it seems to tower away into heaven,
a mass of carving and sculpture,--figures of saints and martyrs who have stood in the sun and
storm for ages, as they stood in their lifetime, with a patient waiting. It was like a great
company, a Christian host, in attitudes of praise and worship. There they were, ranks on ranks,
silent in stone, when the last of the long twilight illumined them; and there in the same impressive
patience they waited the golden day. It required little fancy to feel that they had lived,
and now in long procession came down the ages. The central portal is lofty, wide, and crowded
with figures. The side is only less rich than the front. Here the old Gothic builders let their
fancy riot in grotesque gargoyles,--figures of animals, and imps of sin, which stretch out
their long necks for waterspouts above. From the ground to the top of the unfinished towers
is one mass of rich stone-work, the creation of genius that hundreds of years ago knew no other
way to write its poems than with the chisel. The interior is very magnificent also, and has
some splendid stained glass. At eight o'clock, the priests were chanting vespers to a larger
congregation than many churches have on Sunday: their voices were rich and musical, and, joined
with the organ notes, floated sweetly and impressively through the dim and vast interior. We
sat near the great portal, and, looking down the long, arched nave and choir to the cluster
of candles burning on the high altar, before which the priests chanted, one could not but remember
how many centuries the same act of worship had been almost uninterrupted within, while the
apostles and martyrs stood without, keeping watch of the unchanging heavens.

When I stepped in, early in the morning, the first mass was in progress. The church was nearly
empty. Looking within the choir, I saw two stout young priests lustily singing the prayers
in deep, rich voices. One of them leaned back in his seat, and sang away, as if he had taken
a contract to do it, using, from time to time, an enormous red handkerchief, with which and
his nose he produced a trumpet obligato. As I stood there, a poor dwarf bobbled in and knelt
on the bare stones, and was the only worshiper, until, at length, a half-dozen priests swept
in from the sacristy, and two processions of young school-girls entered from either side. They
have the skull of John the Baptist in this cathedral. I did not see it, although I suppose
I could have done so for a franc to the beadle: but I saw a very good stone imitation of it;
and his image and story fill the church. It is something to have seen the place that contains
his skull.

The country becomes more interesting as one gets into Belgium. Windmills are frequent: in and
near Lille are some six hundred of them; and they are a great help to a landscape that wants
fine trees. At Courtrai, we looked into Notre Dame, a thirteenth century cathedral, which has
a Vandyke ("The Raising of the Cross"), and the chapel of the Counts of Flanders, where workmen
were uncovering some frescoes that were whitewashed over in the war-times. The town hall has
two fine old chimney-pieces carved in wood, with quaint figures,--work that one must go to
the Netherlands to see. Toward evening we came into the ancient town of Bruges. The country
all day has been mostly flat, but thoroughly cultivated. Windmills appear to do all the labor
of the people,--raising the water, grinding the grain, sawing the lumber; and they everywhere
lift their long arms up to the sky. Things look more and more what we call "foreign." Harvest
is going on, of hay and grain; and men and women work together in the fields. The gentle sex
has its rights here. We saw several women acting as switch-tenders. Perhaps the use of the
switch comes natural to them. Justice, however, is still in the hands of the men. We saw a
Dutch court in session in a little room in the town hall at Courtrai. The justice wore a little
red cap, and sat informally behind a cheap table. I noticed that the witnesses were treated
with unusual consideration, being allowed to sit down at the table opposite the little justice,
who interrogated them in a loud voice. At the stations to-day we see more friars in coarse,
woolen dresses, and sandals, and the peasants with wooden sabots.

As the sun goes to the horizon, we have an effect sometimes produced by the best Dutch artists,--a
wonderful transparent light, in which the landscape looks like a picture, with its church-spires
of stone, its windmills, its slender trees, and red-roofed houses. It is a good light and a
good hour in which to enter Bruges, that city of the past. Once the city was greater than Antwerp;
and up the Rege came the commerce of the East, merchants from the Levant, traders in jewels
and silks. Now the tall houses wait for tenants, and the streets have a deserted air. After
nightfall, as we walked in the middle of the roughly paved streets, meeting few people, and
hearing only the echoing clatter of the wooden sabots of the few who were abroad, the old spirit
of the place came over us. We sat on a bench in the market-place, a treeless square, hemmed
in by quaint, gabled houses, late in the evening, to listen to the chimes from the belfry.
The tower is less than four hundred feet high, and not so high by some seventy feet as the
one on Notre Dame near by; but it is very picturesque, in spite of the fact that it springs
out of a rummagy-looking edifice, one half of which is devoted to soldiers' barracks, and the
other to markets. The chimes are called the finest in Europe. It is well to hear the finest
at once, and so have done with the tedious things. The Belgians are as fond of chimes as the
Dutch are of stagnant water. We heard them everywhere in Belgium; and in some towns they are
incessant, jangling every seven and a half minutes. The chimes at Bruges ring every quarter
hour for a minute, and at the full hour attempt a tune. The revolving machinery grinds out
the tune, which is changed at least once a year; and on Sundays a musician, chosen by the town,
plays the chimes. In so many bells (there are forty-eight), the least of which weighs twelve
pounds, and the largest over eleven thousand, there must be soft notes and sonorous tones;
so sweet jangled sounds were showered down: but we liked better than the confused chiming the
solemn notes of the great bell striking the hour. There is something very poetical about this
chime of bells high in the air, flinging down upon the hum and traffic of the city its oft-repeated
benediction of peace; but anybody but a Lowlander would get very weary of it. These chimes,
to be sure, are better than those in London, which became a nuisance; but there is in all of
them a tinkling attempt at a tune, which always fails, that is very annoying.

Bruges has altogether an odd flavor. Piles of wooden sabots are for sale in front of the shops;
and this ugly shoe, which is mysteriously kept on the foot, is worn by all the common sort.
We see long, slender carts in the street, with one horse hitched far ahead with rope traces,
and no thills or pole.

The women-nearly every one we saw-wear long cloaks of black cloth with a silk hood thrown back.
Bruges is famous of old for its beautiful women, who are enticingly described as always walking
the streets with covered faces, and peeping out from their mantles. They are not so handsome
now they show their faces, I can testify. Indeed, if there is in Bruges another besides the
beautiful girl who showed us the old council-chamber in the Palace of justice, she must have
had her hood pulled over her face.

Next morning was market-day. The square was lively with carts, donkeys, and country people,
and that and all the streets leading to it were filled with the women in black cloaks, who
flitted about as numerous as the rooks at Oxford, and very much like them, moving in a winged
way, their cloaks outspread as they walked, and distended with the market-basket underneath.
Though the streets were full, the town did not seem any less deserted; and the early marketers
had only come to life for a day, revisiting the places that once they thronged. In the shade
of the tall houses in the narrow streets sat red-cheeked girls and women making lace, the bobbins
jumping under their nimble fingers. At the church doors hideous beggars crouched and whined,--specimens
of the fifteen thousand paupers of Bruges. In the fishmarket we saw odd old women, with Rembrandt
colors in faces and costume; and while we strayed about in the strange city, all the time from
the lofty tower the chimes fell down. What history crowds upon us! Here in the old cathedral,
with its monstrous tower of brick, a portion of it as old as the tenth century, Philip the
Good established, in 1429, the Order of the Golden Fleece, the last chapter of which was held
by Philip the Bad in 1559, in the rich old Cathedral of St. Bavon, at Ghent. Here, on the square,
is the site of the house where the Emperor Maximilian was imprisoned by his rebellious Flemings;
and next it, with a carved lion, that in which Charles II. of England lived after the martyrdom
of that patient and virtuous ruler, whom the English Prayerbook calls that "blessed martyr,
Charles the First." In Notre Dame are the tombs of Charles the Bold and Mary his daughter.

We begin here to enter the portals of Dutch painting. Here died Jan van Eyck, the father of
oil painting; and here, in the hospital of St. John, are the most celebrated pictures of Hans
Memling. The most exquisite in color and finish is the series painted on the casket made to
contain the arm of St. Ursula, and representing the story of her martyrdom. You know she went
on a pilgrimage to Rome, with her lover, Conan, and eleven thousand virgins; and, on their
return to Cologne, they were all massacred by the Huns. One would scarcely believe the story,
if he did not see all their bones at Cologne.

GHENT AND ANTWERP

What can one do in this Belgium but write down names, and let memory recall the past? We came
to Ghent, still a hand some city, though one thinks of the days when it was the capital of
Flanders, and its merchants were princes. On the shabby old belfry-tower is the gilt dragon
which Philip van Artevelde captured, and brought in triumph from Bruges. It was originally
fetched from a Greek church in Constantinople by some Bruges Crusader; and it is a link to
recall to us how, at that time, the merchants of Venice and the far East traded up the Scheldt,
and brought to its wharves the rich stuffs of India and Persia. The old bell Roland, that was
used to call the burghers together on the approach of an enemy, hung in this tower. What fierce
broils and bloody fights did these streets witness centuries ago! There in the Marche au Vendredi,
a large square of old-fashioned houses, with a statue of Jacques van Artevelde, fifteen hundred
corpses were strewn in a quarrel between the hostile guilds of fullers and brewers; and here,
later, Alva set blazing the fires of the Inquisition. Near the square is the old cannon, Mad
Margery, used in 1382 at the siege of Oudenarde,--a hammered-iron hooped affair, eighteen feet
long. But why mention this, or the magnificent town hall, or St. Bavon, rich in pictures and
statuary; or try to put you back three hundred years to the wild days when the iconoclasts
sacked this and every other church in the Low Countries?

Up to Antwerp toward evening. All the country flat as the flattest part of Jersey, rich in
grass and grain, cut up by canals, picturesque with windmills and red-tiled roofs, framed with
trees in rows. It has been all day hot and dusty. The country everywhere seems to need rain;
and dark clouds are gathering in the south for a storm, as we drive up the broad Place de Meir
to our hotel, and take rooms that look out to the lace-like spire of the cathedral, which is
sharply defined against the red western sky.

