THE STORY
               OF THE INVENTION
                OF STEEL PENS

             WITH A DESCRIPTION OF
         THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS BY
           WHICH THEY ARE PRODUCED

                BY HENRY BORE
                   LONDON

                    1890

In these days of Public Schools and extended facilities for popular education it would be difficult
to find many people unaccustomed to the use of steel pens, but although the manufacture of
this article by presses and tools must have been introduced during the first quarter of the
present century, the inquirer after knowledge would scarcely find a dozen persons who could
give any definite information as to when, where, and by whom this invention was made.  Less
than two decades ago there were three men living who could have answered this question, but
two of them passed away without making any sign, and the third--Sir Josiah Mason--has left
on record that his friend and patron--Mr.  Samuel Harrison--about the year 1780, made a steel
pen for Dr. Priestley.

This interesting fact does not contribute anything toward solving the question, Who was the
first manufacturer of steel pens by mechanical appliances?  In the absence of any definite
information, the balance of testimony tends to prove that steel pens were first made by tools,
worked by a screw press, about the beginning of the third decade of the present century, and
the names associated with their manufacture were John Mitchell, Joseph Gillott, and Josiah
Mason, each, in his own way, doing something toward perfecting the manufacture by mechanical means.

The earliest references to pens are probably those in the Bible, and are to be found in Judges
v. 14, 1st Kings xxi. 8, Job xix. 24, Psalm xlv. 1., Isaiah viii. 1, Jeremiah viii. 8 and xvii.
1. But these chiefly refer to the iron stylus, though the first in Jeremiah--taken in reference
to the mention of a penknife, xxxvi. 23--would seem to imply that a reed was in use at that period.

There is a reference to "pen and ink" in the 3d Epistle of John xiii. 5, which was written
about A.D. 85, and as pens made in brass and silver were used in the Greek and Roman Empires
at that time, it is probable that a metallic pen or reed was alluded to.

Pens and reeds made in the precious metals and bronze appear to have been in use at the commencement
of the present era.  The following are a few notable instances:

"The Queen of Hungary, in the year 1540, had a silver pen bestowed upon her, which had this
inscription upon it: 'Publii Ovidii Calamus,' found under the ruins of some monument in that
country, as Mr. Sands, in the Life of Ovid (prefixed to his Metamorphosis) relates.  --"Humane
Industry; or, a History of Mechanical Arts," by Thos. Powell, D.D.: London, 1661, page 61."

This was probably a silver reed, and, from the locality in which it was found, was once the
property of the poet Ovid.  Publius Ovidius Naso was born in the year 43 B.C., and died 18
A.D.  He was exiled at the age of 30 to Tomi, a town south of the delta of the Danube.  This
at present is in modern Bulgaria, but at the period mentioned was in the ancient kingdom of
Hungary.

From "Notes and Queries," in Birmingham Weekly Post, we take the following:

"EARLY METALLIC PENS.---Metallic pens are generally supposed to have been unknown before the
early part of the last century, when gold and silver pens are occasionally referred to as novel
luxuries.  I have, however, recently found a description and an engraving of one found in excavating
Pompeii, and which is now preserved in the Museum at Naples.  It is described in the quarto
volume 'Les Monuments du Musee National de Naples, graves sur cuivre par les meillures artistes
Italienes.  Texte par Domenico Monaco, Conservateur du meme Musee, Naples, 1882,' and is in
the Catalogue:

"' Plate I26 (v) Plume en bronze, taillee parfaitement a la facon de nos plumes 0.13 cent.

"' Plate I26 (y) Plume en roseau [reed] trouvee pres d'un papyrus a Herculaneum.'

"The former (v) is engraved to look like an ordinary reed pen, as now used universally in the
East; and the other (y) has a spear shape, or almond shape (like many modern metallic pens),
but with a sort of fillet or ring on the stem, which indicates that the 'y' example is not
a reed, but a metallic stylus, or pen, while the 'v' example is shown clearly as a 'reed.'
The two are, however, certainly older than A.D. 79, when Pompeii and Herculaneum were buried
by the eruption of Vesuvius."

According to Father Montfaucon, the patriarchs of Constantinople, under the Greek Empire, were
accustomed to sign their allocutions with tubular pens of silver, similar in shape to the reed
pens which are still used by Oriental nations.

The following are translated from the French "Notes and Queries "-- L'Intermediare:

"A METALLIC PEN IN THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY.--M. Reni de Bellwal, in a very learned volume which
he has published recently, on the first campaign of Edward III. in France, says (p. 95) with
respect to the fictitious pieces (documents) fabricated by Robert d'Artois, that a clerk of
Jeanne wrote the deeds, and made use of a bronze pen to enable him the better to disguise his
writing.  This plainly refers to a pen, and not to a stylus.  Is there any record of the use
of metallic pens at any period anterior to the fourteenth century?  It is very satisfactory,
however, to establish (as the French used to say) 'les preuves de 1300.'"--L'Intermediare.

In the Vieux-Neuf of M. Ed. Fournier (vol. ii., p. 22, note) there is mentioned--according
to the documents used in the prosecution of Robert d'Artois, which are in the Archives--'the
bronze pen' with which the forgers in the pay of the count wrote the false papers which he
required.  M. Fournier also quotes from 'Montfaucon' 'the silver reeds' with which the Constantinople
patriarchs used to write their letters."--CUTHBERT, L'Intermediare, 1st June, 1864.

"METALLIC PENS (XV., 68).-Writing was done in the Middle Ages sometimes with a metal stylus,
or perhaps with a metal pen; with the former on wax, and with the pen on parchment or vellum.
'At Trinity College, Cambridge, is a manuscript illustration of Eadwine, a monk of Canterbury,
and at the end the writer is represented with a metal pen in his hand.'  (See Bibliomania in
the Middle Ages, p. 103).  I have in my possession a metal pen of Dutch manufacture, dating
certainly from the year 1717, mounted on the same pencilholder, with a piece of solid plumbago,
in a memorandum book of the same year."--SAM: TIMMINS.

"Mr. Le Chauvine Gal, Prior of the collegiate of St. Peter and St. Bars at Aosta, had in his
collection of Roman antiquities a bronze pen, slit, found in a tomb, among a number of lamps
and lachrymatory vases.  M. Aubert has given a drawing and description of it in a work on Aosta.
It was subsequently stolen from him by a collector."--- CHAMBERY, Un Savoyard, L'Intermediare,
25th May, 1868.

"METALLIC PENS,--In a precious volume (an account of the books of the Decretalia) preserved
in the library of Saint Antoine, of Padua, the following notice is to be found at the bottom
of the last page: 'This work is fashioned and by diligence finished for the service of God,
not with ink of quill nor with brazen reed, but with a certain invention of printing or reproducing
by John Fust, citizen of Mayence, and Peter Schoeiffer, of Gernsheim, Dec.  17th, 1465, A.D.'
Here, then, we have a document proving the existence of metallic pens in the Middle Ages. 
But has any such pen come down to us?  If so, could a detailed description of it be obtained?
On the other hand, I am curious to know if it is possible that platinum was used in the eighteenth
century in the manufacture of pens, or whether it is necessary to attribute a peculiar meaning
to the 'platinum pen' in the following passage of the system of shorthand by Bertin (edit.
of the year iv., p. 93) (1793).  'Those of steel and platinum are most convenient; these latter
have the advantage of all others, in that they hold the ink a long time, and run over the paper
easily, and are not liable to corrosion by any simple acid.'  I am ignorant of what the same
author means when he mentions the endless pen, which would certainly be the best. "'--J.  CAMUS,
L'Intermediare.

"Metallic pens were used before the fifteenth century; they were in use at the court of Augustus."
See L'Intermed. (I. 69, 94, 141; II. 319.)  Consult also Le Vieux-Neuf Ed. Fournier.--A.D.

The following extracts show there have been several claimants, on the Continent, who profess
to have invented metallic pens, made from steel, in the early part of the eighteenth century;
but the reader had better suspend his judgment until he has read the notes that follow them:

"A manuscript, entitled 'Historical Chronicle of Aix-la-Chapelle, second book, 1748,' places
on record the claims of Johann Janssen, a magistrate of that place, as the inventor of steel
pens.  'Just at the meeting of the congress [after the Austrian war] I may without boasting,
claim the honour of having invented a new pen.  It is, perhaps, not an accident that God should
have inspired me at the present time with the idea of making steel pens, for all the envoys
here assembled have bought the first that have been made; therewith, as may be hoped, to sign
a treaty of peace, which, with God's blessing, shall be as permanent as the hard steel with
which it is written.  Of these pens, as I have invented them, no man hath before seen or heard.
If kept clean and free from rust and ink, they will continue fit for use for many years.  Indeed,
a man may write twenty reams of paper with one, and the last line would be written as well
as the first.  They are now sent into every corner of the world as a rare thing--to Spain,
France, England and Holland.  Others will no doubt make imitations of my pens, but I am the
man who first invented and made them.  I have sold a great number of them at home and abroad
at 1s. each, and I dispose of them as quickly as I can make them."'

In an article on Writing Instruments, which appeared in the Berlin Paper Zeitung, on the 19th
of May, 1887, the author says:

"A school teacher of Koningberg, named Burger, in the year 1808, made pens from metal, but
he got poor by his trials.  After this time, and probably imitating the pens of Burger, the
English began to take in hand the manufacture of pens; especially Perry, he having perfected
the pens, as he did not restrict himself to the simple straight slit, but he made cuts in the
sides of different kinds."

In a pamphlet upon the manufacture of steel pens, published in Paris, in 1884, the writer says:

"The invention of the metallic pen is due to a French mechanic-- Arnoux--who lived in the eighteenth
century, who made as far back as 1750 a number of metallic pens as a curiosity.  This invention
did not have any immediate result in France but spread to England, and became in Birmingham,
about 1830, a very prosperous industry.  A very curious fact about this trade is that, in England,
it does not exist out of Birmingham, where there are about ten manufactories.  In France it
has become localized in Boulogne."

There is also the "nameless Sheffield Artisan," who so frequently figures in newspaper paragraphs
as the inventor of steel pens; and William Gadsby, a mathematical instrument maker, who for
his own use constructed a clumsy article from the mainspring of a watch; but it is not till
the beginning of the eighteenth century that we get anything authentic respecting the making
of metallic pens.  "Este," writing in "Local Notes and Queries" (Birmingham Weekly Post) mentions
a remarkable little volume supplied to the members of the States General of Holland, in the
possession of Mr. W. Bragge, of Sheffield, dated 1717.  It contained a silver pencil case,
in two parts, one holding a piece of plumbago, mounted like a crayon, and the other a metallic
pen.  We have seen this unique book (now the property of Mr. Sam: Timmins).  The pen is of
the barrel shape, apparently silver, and it must be regarded as the earliest authentic metallic
pen.  Of the date there can be no doubt, as the pen is made to pass through loops in the cover
of the volume to keep it closed, after the manner of pocket books, and the book bears the date,
printed on the title page, 1717.

Pope, about the same time, received from Lady Frances Shirley a present of a standish, containing
a STEEL and a gold pen.  In acknowledging the receipt of this present, the poet wrote an ode,
in which the following lines occur:

  "Take at this hand celestial arms;
 Secure the radiant weapons wield;
  This golden lance shall guard desert,
 And, if a vice dares keep the field,
  This steel shall stab it to the heart.
 Awed, on my bended knees I fell,
  Received the weapons of the sky,
 And dipped them in the sable well--
  The fount of fame or infamy.
 What well? What weapon? Flavia cries,
  A standish, steel and golden pen!
 It came from Bertrand's,* not the skies,
  I gave it you to write again."

*Bertrand kept a fancy shop in Bath.  He died in 1755.  His wife is mentioned by Horace Walpole,
in his letter to George Montague, May 18th, 1749, which letter is printed in his Correspondence.

In No. 503 of the Spectator, bearing the date of October 7, 1712, Steele, mentioning the conspicuous
manner in which a certain lady conducted herself in church, says:

"For she fixed her eyes upon the preacher, and as he said anything she approved, with one of
Charles Mather's fine tablets, she set down the sentence, at once showing her fine hand, the
gold pen, her readiness in writing, and her judgments in choosing what to write."

Edmund Waller, about the middle of the seventeenth century, acknowledged the receipt of a silver
pen from a lady, in the following verses:

 "Madam! intending to have try'd,
  The silver favour which you gave,
 In ink the shining point I dy'd,
  And drench'd it in the sable wave
 When, grieved to be so foully stained,
  On you it thus to me complained.

 So I, the wronged pen to please,
  Made it my humble thanks express
 Unto your Ladyship, in these,
  And now 'tis forced to confess
 That your great self did ne'er indite
  Nor that to me more noble write."

Mr. G. A. Lomas, writing to the Scientific American, November 23, 1878, says:

"I write to inquire if you can give me information concerning the manufacture of metal pens
in this country.  I may be vain in the supposition, but I am persuaded that my people--the
Shakers--were the originators of metal pens.  I write this to you with a silver pen, one slit,
that was made in the vear 1819, at this village, by the Shakers. Two or three years previously
to the use of silver pens, our people used brass plates for their manufacture, but soon found
silver preferable.  Some people sold these pens in the year 1819, at this village, for twenty-five
cents, and disposed of all that could be made."

The writer further says the metal was made from silver coins.

This communication called forth the following from another correspondent:

"The letter in the Scientific American, November 23, 1878, with regard to the early manufacture
of steel pens, reminds me of the following note which appeared in the Boston Mechanic, for
August, 1835. 'The inventor of steel pens,' says the Journal of Commerce, was an American and
a well-known resident of our city (New York), Mr. Peregrine Williamson.  In the year 1800,
Mr.W., then a working jeweler, at Baltimore, while attending an evening school, finding some
difficulty in making a quill pen to suit him, made one of steel.  It would not write well,
however, for want of flexibility.  After a while he made an additional slit on each side of
the main one, and the pens were so much improved that Mr. W. was called to make them in such
numbers as to eventually occupy his whole time, and that of a journeyman.  At first the business
was very profitable and enabled Mr. W. to realize for the labor of himself and journeyman a
clear profit of six hundred dollars per month.  The English soon borrowed the invention, and
some who first engaged in the business realized immense fortunes."'

We do not know how much reliance may be placed upon this statement, but, if the last assertion
"that those who first engaged in the business realized immense fortunes" may be taken as a
test, the whole must be received with a grain of salt.  The letter appeared in the Boston Mechanic,
in 1835, and at that date there were penmakers who had made a modest competence, but in no
case were they possessed of immense fortunes.

In London Notes and Queries, the following appears respecting early steel pens:

"THE FIRST STEEL PEN.--(5th S., iii., 395.)  Ten years before Dr. Priestley was born steel
pens were in use.  There are references to them in the Diary of John Byrom, who required them
when writing short-hand.  In a letter to his sister Phoebe, dated August, 1723, he mentions
them as follows: 'Alas! alas! I cannot meet with a steel pen, no manner of where I believe
I have asked at 375 places, but that which I have is at your service, as the owner himself
always is."' (Remains, Vol. i., 39.)

Mr. Ralph N. James, writing to Notes and Queries, gives the following extract from the very
amusing "journey to Paris," by Dr. Martin Lister, 1698:

"There was one thing very curious, and that was a Writing lnstrument of thick and strong silver
wire, bound up like a hollow button or screw, with both ends pointing one way, and at a distance,
so that a man might easily put his forefinger betwixt the two points, and the point divided
in two, just like our steel pens."--London Notes and Queries, vol. iii., page 346.

This note caused another writer, Mr. C.A. Ward, to send the following:

"STEEL PENS.--The extract given from Dr. M. Lister's, by Mr. Ralph N. James, is very interesting.
The doctor there speaks of 'our steel pens,' as if they were not at all uncommon.  When the
poet Churchill's effects were sold up, after his death, Nov. 10, 1764, they fetched extravagant
prices; 'a common steel pen' brought L.5." --London Notes and Queries, vol iii., page 474.

The following extract from London Notes and Queries gives very plausible reasons against placing
confidence in the preceding and other notices of ancient steel pens:

"STEEL PENS. (5th S., vol. iii., pp. 346, 474.)  May I ask whether, in giving the interesting
references to the use of steel pens before the time of Priestley (one reference even going
so far back as the seventeenth century) your correspondents have carefully considered what
is meant by the terms.  For my own part (of course I maybe quite wrong) I should naturally
have anticipated steel pens in these references to mean not the modern steel nib for ordinary
penmanship, but the ancient steel pen for drawing lines or ruling circles, such as is contained
in every box of mathematical instruments.  This would explain (to some extent) the great price
fetched for a good one of Churchill's; a mere old steel nib would scarcely enter into a sale
at all.  It would explain, too, why a special process of hardening should be applied to a quill,
in order to make it do duty for the steel instrument.  One would scarcely think of hardening
a quill in order to enable it to compete with a steel nib in some of the least desirable qualities,
though one often wishes one could accomplish the reverse process, and soften or supple a steel
'stick frog,' so as to give it the elasticity of the grey goose quill. "--V. H. I. L. L. C.
IV. (iv., 37, 5th S., London Notes and Queries.)

Mr. R. Prosser, author of "Birmingham Inventors and Inventions," in writing to the compiler
of this work, says:

"It has often occurred to me that some of the very early references to metallic pens may perhaps
mean the draughtsman's 'ruling pen,' and not an instrument made after the fashion of a quill
pen with a slit in it. That it is possible to write with such an instrument this paragraph
will show, but I must admit that it is not equal to one of Perry's J's."

In London Notes and Queries (4th S., xi., 440), the Rev.  E. Smedley, editor of the Encyclopoedia
Metropolitana, writing to his friend, Mr. H. Hawkins, April 10, 1833, says:

"The process of nibbing and shaving is one which I always abominated, and for years past I
have taken refuge under the Perryian pens.  The one with which I now write has been in use
daily, and all day long, for more than a fortnight, and I consider that it still owes me quite
as much worth as it has already furnished.  Every packet contains nine pens, and on an average
two out of that number fail to suit my hand, but the remaining seven are faithful servants,
and their price is 2s."

In London Notes and Queries (4th S., xii., 57) a writer says:

"I bought my first steel pen from Bramah, Piccadilly, in 1825.  The price was 1s. 6d.  It was
very thick and hard, with very little elasticity.  In 1829 I read advertised in the Times,
steel pens, with holder, 3s. per dozen, at Kendal's, in Holborn.  They were hand made, and
much easier to write with than Bramah's.  Soon after the price fell, and steel pens became common."

In London Notes and Queries (4th S., x., 309), October 19, 1872, Mr. William Bates, speaking
of a visit he paid to an old lady, at Studley (Worcestershire) about 1825, says that he saw
an exquisitely-finished inkstand of pure gold, the gift of one of the Earls of Plymouth to
her father, 100 years before.  The inkstand was provided with a jointed gold penholder, terminating
in a barrel (one slit) pen, resembling the metallic pen of the present day, except that he
found that it would not write.

In "Local Notes and Queries," published in the Birmingham Journal and Weekly Post, there have
appeared a number of contributions relating to the early manufacture of steel pens.  We reproduce
them here.  A correspondent writing on June 22, 1869, says: "Daniel Fellows, of Sedgley, made
steel pens about 1800."

Another writer, on the same date, says, "The first makers of steel pens were John Edwards,
Hill Street, and Francis Heeley, Mount Street, Birmingham."

Respecting, the former of these, in Wrightson's Birmingham Directory, 1823, the following advertisement
appears: "John Edwards, manufacturer of improved gold, silver, and elastic sleel pens, mounted
in all kinds of cases, and desk handles, No. 40 Hill Street.  N.B.--The pens are warranted
to write exceedingly fine and free."

This advertisement contained engravings of a barrel and "nibbed" or "slip" pen.

J. Sargent, writing from Tettenhall, June 28, 1869, says:

"A journeyman blacksmith, named Fellows, of Sedgley, was the first originator of steel pens.
I resided at Sedgley in 1822, when Sheldon, Fellows's apprentice, made some of these pens.
He made two for me.  I wrote very well with them.  Sheldon himself told me that Mr. Gillott
commenced making the pen from seeing some of his (Sheldon's) make."

Some one writing under the nom de plume of "Un Qui Sait," says:

"I distinctly recollect, about the year 1806, being at Fellows's home in Sedgley, and there
seeing Thomas Sheldon, his apprentice, making steel pens.  He knew of an entry in his books
of pens bought from Fellows in 1807.  He paid Sheldon L.100 in 1822. He believed Fellows made
pens in 1793.  Beilby and Knott (Birmingham stationers) sold these pens in considerable quantities
from 1818 to 1828.  Sheldon continued the trade until it was destroyed through inability to
compete with the machine-made pens of Mitchell and Gillott."

Another writer, "T. S.," says:

"In 1815, an uncle of mine used to purchase these pens from Sheldon, of Sedgley.  The price
was eighteen shillings per dozen, ten per cent. for cash.  They were barrel shape.  B. Smith
and Co. had in their pattern book of engravings of steel toys a drawing of one of these pens,
which were sold at thirty shillings per dozen; also one in a bone handle, the top of which
screwed off, for carrying in the pocket, at thirty-six shillings per dozen."

Another correspondent, writing on July 24, 1869, mentions (on authority of the late Mr. Alderman
Yates) that an old man named Spittle made steel pens before any of the present makers.

In note 319 this man Spittle is mentioned by another writer, who says:

"A man named Spittle, one of the earliest makers of steel pens, lived in Chequers' Walk, Bath
Row, Birmingham.  He made steel pens for sale, and charged one shilling each for them.  They
were made with a tube to fit on a quill.  I bought one from him forty-five years ago (1824)."

"E.W.," writing in 1869, says:

"In 1821 there was a B. Smith, steel toy maker, St. Paul's [Mary's] Square, Birmingham.  He
had a book of engravings of steel toys, among which were steel pens, made to screw on and off.
This pattern book might have been one hundred years old.  I sold his pens in 1823."

The Editor of "Notes and Queries" says "Smith's pattern book was probably fifty years old,"
and further remarks that steel pens must have been a regular article of manufacture before
they appeared in a steel toy maker's pattern book.

"C.J.," in note 372, says:

"The pattern book of John Barnes, Eagle Works, Wolverhampton, contains engravings of early
steel pens."

Mr. Robert Griffin says:

"In 1824 I wrote very much with a steel pen made under the direction of James Perry--a pen
that lasted about eight or nine weeks, writing eight hours a day."

In note 344, "Anon" says he remembered his father (who had premises in Water Street, Birmingham),
in the summer of 1823, bringing a tall, quiet, respectable man to the manufactory.  He had
a piece of iron, or steel, which he required to be cut up into strips of about two inches wide.
The man said he was going to get the strips rolled to make into steel pens.  He gave the writer
of the note sixpence and a barrel pen for his trouble.  In answer to inquiries the writer put
to his father, the latter stated he did not know the man's name nor where he lived, but "that
he met with him in a smoke room, where he (the father) sometimes spent his evenings."  The
writer further remarks: "Where the man had got his ideas from which induced him to try his
hand at making steel pens I do not know, but I have an impression that there were several experimenters
in existence at that time; and very soon afterward Mr. William (Joseph) Gillott, with whom
my father was on terms of intimacy, came into notice as a maker of steel pens."  This is a
very important statement, as it fixes a date respecting pens being made from sheet steel.

One of the oldest toolmakers in the trade has informed us that, about the year 1823 or 1824,
he was frequently taken by his father to visit an uncle named Clulee, who rented power at the
Water Street mill.  On these occasions his father and uncle would talk about the visits of
Gillott to the latter, and the hopeful manner in which he spoke of the experiments he was then
making.  Gillott rented power at the Water Street mill, and was engaged in grinding and finishing
penknife blades, which were inserted in one end of a silver pencil case, which his relative--Mitchell--was
then making.

Now, who was this "tall, quiet, respectable man?"  It could not have been Gillott, as he was
not tall and the father of "Anon" knew him; and Mitchell was also a short man.  We have failed
to trace him, and his identity is lost among the "sowers" who failed to reap the harvest of
their inventions.

Mr. George Wallis, speaking of steel pens, remarks:

"I wrote with one when a boy (1822 to 1826), having found several in a stock of old steel waste
in the warehouse of a relative, a retired ornamental steel worker, at Wolverhampton.  These
pens were made (so I was told) for the London market, late in the last or early in the present
century.  Certainly they were made fifteen or, perhaps, twenty years, when I found them, as
the manufactory in which they had been produced had been closed the former number of years.
They consisted of a holder of steel, with flutings and facets.  One was solid and tapered to
lighten it; the other had a barrel with an internal screw. The pen had two screws; one was
used to screw the pen into the barrel for use, and the other to secure it when turned inwards
as a protection when not in use, or to carry in the pocket."

The following letter from Mr. Alderman Manton to Mr. Sam: Timmins makes us acquainted with
another manufacturer of steel pens:

"THE METAL PENS OF 1823.--In a badly-constructed and unsanitary manufactory (Mr.  James Collins's),
at the back of 119 Suffolk Street, (Birm.), I witnessed the process of making silver and steel
pens. As both metals were manufactured in the same manner, one description will serve.  It
will be remembered by a few that at that time there was a patent silver pencil case somewhat
extensively manufactured, which in addition to the pencil, had a penknife, pen and toothpick
provided.  The penknife was supplied by two brothers--Joseph and William Gillott--who at that
time rented a small shop in a corner of the yard belonging to the rolling mill of George and
P.F. Muntz, Water Street, and from whose engine they obtained the small amount of steam power
needed.  The process of making the pens was as follows: Two narrow strips were cut from a sheet
of silver or steel; they were then, by the help of the hammer and a lead cake, or piece of
hard wood, curved.  Afterwards the two strips were placed opposite to each other on a well-polished
steel wire, and drawn through a draw-plate, the wire and plate being supplied by Wm. Billings,
a celebrated tool manufacturer, occupying premises near the top of Snow Hill (Birm.). By the
aid of a press, a small hole was made at a distance of half an inch or five-eighths from the
end, the slit was then made by a fine saw made of watch springs.  A bent pair of shears was
used for cutting the end of strip into the shape of a pen; and a half-round file or smooth
was used for finishing the pen.  The pen was then sawn off the strip by the same saw which
was used for slitting the pen.  The only hardening process was the friction of the draw-plate
and steel wire. I not only witnessed the process, but was a manipulator.  The cost of making
at that time, by a journeyman, was 2d. each; by an apprentice, about one-third of that amount.
Within less than thirty years of that time, in a manufactory adjoining my own, pens were made
and sold (wholesale) at 2d. per gross, and a box containing them into the bargain." (Signed)
Henry Manton, September 15, 1886.

Mr. T. Vary writes that James Perry began making steel pens in Manchester, and quotes the Saturday
Magazine to show that metallic pens were given by him as rewards of merit in schools as far
back as 1819.

Mr. James Cocker, writing in the Sheffield Daily Telegraph, in 1869, says: "That he rolled
steel wire for James Perry for penmaking in 1829."

The death of Mr. Gillott seems to have revived the discussion of the origin of steel pens,
and a correspondent in the Sheffield Daily Telegraph, in the issue of January 11, 1872, in
the following letter, puts forth a claim on behalf of a Sheffield man:

"The well-written and well-merited memoir of the late Mr. Gillott, the Birmingham steel pen
maker, which has just appeared in the newspapers, affords a curious and instructive illustration
of the success which not seldom attends the combined action of ingenuity, industry, shrewdness,
and integrity among our labouring classes.  Born in the humblest rank of our local workmen,
a steady scholar in our Boys' Lancasterian School, and apprenticed to a scissors grinder, the
deceased worked his way upwards into a position of influence and opulence as a manufacturer,
which entitled him to take social rank with the merchant princes of the land.  And if his name
has long since ceased to be familiar among his once contemporary workmen in Sheffield, and
is not even mentioned in the Directory, it has for several years past been recognized and respected
by the visitors at the annual exhibitions of our School of Art, in connection with the many
rare and valuable pictures lent by him on those occasions.  The printed fac-simile of the autograph
appeared in the 'advertising columns' of almost every newspaper in the world, and perhaps,
as an expert might have said, was characteristic.  In the admirable account of his life above
referred to stress is laid upon one prominent and praiseworthy feature of his character, viz.,
his readiness to acknowledge the obscurity of his origin and the steps of his industrial success.
In those details no mention is made of his Sheffield master and predecessor in the ingenious
art of steel pen making.  And as the notice alluded to is without dates, it is difficult to
furnish information on the material point of priority, though the fact of supremacy in the
trade is clear enough.  In one of the columns of Lardner's Cyclopedia, published in 1833, the
names of Perry, Heeley, and Skinner are mentioned as steel pen makers.  With the latter, who
if he did not make wealth, certainly earned a wide reputation for the low price and excellent
temper of his 'steel nibs,' Mr. Gillett was a workman, in Nursery Street, Sheffield, having
gone with his master from the scissors grinding stone to the making of polished steel ornaments
for ladies' work, then fashionable. How much, in what way, or whether at all, he was indebted
to his experience in Mr. Skinner's establishment may be questionable, but that he learnt and
first saw practised in Sheffield the art that ultimately enriched him in Birmingham, he would
probably be the last to deny.  It is well remembered by a worthy dealer in almost every useful
article, from a mouse-trap to a railroad wagon, that Gillott, soon after his establishment
in Birmingham, came into our townsman's shop, and seeing on the counter a model steam engine
of half-horse power, at once purchased and carried it off to give motion to some part of his
pen machinery.  Brass pens were made in Sheffield before the close of the last century.  They
mostly accompanied an 'inkpot,' called from its users an 'exciseman.'  The writer of this paragraph
himself made hundreds of dozens of them, which, however, be never used, nor steel ones either,
as long as he could get a 'goose quill,' good, bad or indifferent.  The matter of slitting
the nib was kept secret by Skinner, and the double slit of Gillott more than doubled the value
of his old master's invention; but a 'four-slit' pen, i.e., with five points, if possible to
make, would be useless.  The earliest experimenter in form and material was Perry, flexibility
being the great desideratum; but it is curious to see how world-wide a currency Gillott's name
and trade have given to the simplest shape; and still more curious to note how the makers of
writing ink and paper have conformed these articles to the requirements of the uses of the
steel pen.  It is always gratifying, and not unprofitable, to contrast the small and feeble
beginnings of any manufacturing enterprise with a large and well-merited success."

This communication appears to have caused a Mr. William Levesley to call upon the writer of
the preceding epistle, and the following which appeared in the Sheffield Daily Telegraph, January
30, 1872, was written:

"I have to thank you for the insertion of my queries as to the early connection of Sheffield
with steel pen making.  In consequence of the appearance of my letter in the Telegraph, a cutlery
manufacturer of the name of William Levesley, called upon me, and informed me that he was not
only an early associate with the late Mr.  Gillott, of Birmingham, but the first person who
made a steel pen out of London. Stress has been laid upon Gillott's ability 'to forge and grind
a knifeblade.'  It is not likely he ever used the hammer on hot steel, but he was when young,
and working with father, accounted an excellent penknife grinder; Skinner being a scissors
grinder, and Levesley a workboard hand for the same master.  A man of the name of Mitchell
having married Gillott's mother, went to Birmingham, and began the cutlery business, the latter
removing thither to grind for his father- in-law.  His brother had also gone thither, and commenced
making an article that had some run, and may be said to have united the ingenious handicrafts
of Birmingham, viz., the insertion of a penknife blade at the end of a silver pencil case.
Meanwhile, about the year 1825, Levesley saw a steel pen, made by Perry, of London, in Ridge's
shop window, in High Street.  He bought it for one shilling, and immediately set about making
tools to imitate and improve upon it.  He spent, he said, L.30 in not unsuccessful, though
unremunerative, experiments.  The flypress was at least as well known in Sheffield as in Birmingham,
and its power was at once brought into requisition to work the tools for shaping, bending,
and slitting the pens which were made out of sheet steel, Perry's being made out of thick wire,
rolled flat, by Cocker, in Nursery Street.  In 1829, Levesley was making pens for sale, and
that year is said to be the earliest date of actual sales in Skinner's ledger.  In 1831 he
was doing a considerable business in Sheffield, and making experiments upon the article, as
appears from specimens before me bearing his name.  Stress has been laid upon the improvement
of the double slit, introduced by Gillott, but if Levesley's statement is to be taken literally,
he was the inventor of a specialty upon which, even more than on excellence of material, the
merit of a steel pen is found to depend, viz., the grinding of a small hollow at the back of
the nib, and about the eighth of an inch from the point.  My informant described not only the
beneficial action of this thinning of the metal, as well in yielding the gradual flow of the
ink as in flexibility of writing, but the pleasure with which he took a specimen to Birmingham
to show Gillott, and the surprise of the latter at so great and so beneficial an effect, provided
by so small a cause.  He at once adopted an improvement of which every pen made by him bears
evidence; and when his friend visited him he told him he had fifty women employed in grinding
pen points.  It is pleasant to add that Gillott never visited Sheffield without calling to
see his old friend Levesley, while the latter spoke of his early and later life with respect
and commendation, especially in his domestic relations.  It is pleasing to review a life of
such humble beginnings, culminating in opulence and usefulness like that of the late Joseph
Gillott, of Birmingham; nor is it less to name in connection therewith, as an early experimenter
in steel pen making, our worthy townsman, William Levesley, to whose ingenious improvement
every writer is so much indebted, and of whose verbal communication to me the foregoing is
an imperfect sketch."

Now, in this statement, there are some dales given, but others are omitted, and that is a very
unfortunate circumstance.  Levesley told the writer of the article in the Sheffield Daily Telegraph
that he made use of the fly press for working tools for shaping, bending, and slitting pens.
If the writer had only given the date of this it would have been a valuable contribution toward
a history of the invention. The claim of Levesley to having invented the process of grinding
pens and teaching Gillott seems, to say the least, curious, because the latter was a Sheffield
grinder, and the idea would certainly be quite as likely to occur to Gillott as Levesley. 
Besides, why did Levesley communicate the idea to Gillott in preference to Skinner, with whom
he had business relations?  The statement that Gillott had fifty girls employed when Levesley*
called upon him on his next visit to Birmingham looks like a mistake.  Fifty girls would grind
on an average seven thousand gross of pens in a week, and as this correspondence appears to
refer to the early part of Gillott's career, it is scarcely possible that such a number of
pens were produced weekly at that period.  Besides, as a matter of fact, boys were, in the
first instance, employed to grind pens.

* Mr. Sam: Timmins says, "that Levesley told him that Gillott started in Birmingham as a jobbing
cutler; that Mitchell had the secret of pen making; that Mitchell sent for Gillott to come
to Birmingham, and that he (J.G.) first lived at the top of Water Street; that Gillott began
to make pens in Bread Street; that Perry made pens from flattened steel wire, the breadth of
the pen (the steel was 3s. 6d. per lb., and drawn at Old Ford); that he had seen cross grinding
(at Gillott's) in Newhall Street, and fifty women at work; and that pens had double slits and
cut holes.  Levesley certainly knew all the Gillott family, personally, in Sheffield, and he
(S. T.) had a long interview with him shortly before his death, when he mentioned all the facts
given here."

Herr Ignaz Nagel, in his "Report on Writing, Drawing, and Painters' Requisites," at the Vienna
Exhibition, 1873, says:

"From careful inquiries that we made in Birmingham, we learned that a knife cutler, of Sheffield,
was the first man who had the idea of making pens of steel, and that a tinman of the name of
Skipper [Skinner], of Sheffield, afterwards manufactured the pens in great quantities.  His
son developed the idea still further.  This, according to our informant, was fifty years ago.
A steel pen artisan, working in Birmingham, remembers perfectly well reading the announcement
in a window of the High Street, in Sheffield, 1816: 'Steel pens are repaired here at sixpence
apiece.' There was a man named Spittle, in Birmingham, who used to make steel pens by hand.
He was succeeded by the brothers John and William Mitchell, who were manufacturers of steel
pens, wholesale and by machinery, about forty- five years ago.  Perry came afterwards, and
took out a patent for the first steel pens, and after him Gillott, who had learnt the business
with the Mitchells."

A writer in Herbert's Encyclopoedia published in 1837, says

"The first decided attempt to introduce metallic pens to general use was made by Mr. Wise,
whose perpetual pens will doubtless be remembered by many of our readers.  The name of Wise
was rendered conspicuous in most of our stationers' shops some twenty-five or thirty years
since, as the original inventor and general manufacturer of the steel pens."

We stated at the beginning of this article that of three men-- Mitchell, Gillott, and Mason--who
might have done something toward fixing the date of the invention of manufacturing pens by
the adaptation of tools worked by the screw press, only one--Mason--made a statement:

"The first making of steel pens that I know of was about the year 1780, by my late friend Mr.
Harrison, for Dr. Priestley.  He took sheet steel, made a tube of it, and the part joined formed
the slit of the pen.  He then filed away the barrel and formed the pen.  I found some of the
identical pens amongst other articles and used them for a long time.

"The second mode of making pens was by punching a rough blank out of thin sheet steel.  This
blank formed the well-known barrel pen.  It was brought into the barrel shape by rounding,
but before rounding it had to be filed into a better form about the nib, and when rounded in
the soft state, a sharp chisel was used to mark the inside of the pen which became the slit,
after hardening.  Before tempering, this mark was 'tabbered' with a small hammer, and it would
crack where the inside mark was made.  Then it was tempered and underwent grinding, and shaping
the nib until a point suitable for fine or broad, as required.

"I made barrel pens in 1828, and 'slip' pens for Perry in 1829, and the first lot of 100 at
one time was sent November 20, 1830. Frequently, lots of 20 or 30 gross were sent between 1829
and 1830, and in 1831 I sent pens to Perry amounting to L.1421, 1s. 3d.

"Perry certainly never made a pen as they are now made, viz., the slit cut with press tools;
all he made were cracked slit.

"I made steel barrel pens some time before I made 'slip' pens for Perry.

"It is doubtful when metal pens were made.  The first I know of were made by Mr. Harrison,
for Dr. Priestley.  Perry was certainly not the first maker of steel pens, but I have no doubt
that he was the first steel slip pen maker, and no doubt the first to use a goose quill for
a pen holder, hence the slip pen.

"The first stick pen holders I made for Perry in 1832, and for Gillott in 1835, and sold sticks
to Gillott in 1840--L.293 18s. 7d."

Mason claimed to have made barrel pens for Perry, of London, in 1828, and "slip or nibbed"
pens in 1829; but he does not appear to have made any claim to priority of invention over Mitchell
and Gillott.

Now, although Mitchell made no claim himself, on the death of Mr. Gillott the following letter
appeared in the Daily Post:

"The remarks which have appeared in a local paper upon the death of Mr. J. Gillott, that the
steel pen owes its existence to him, and that the adaptation of machinery to the manufacture
of metallic pens was his invention, lead the public to wrong conclusions.  It is due to the
memory of my late father--John Mitchell--that I should state that he not only made steel pens,
but used machinery in their production, for some time before Mr. Gillott commenced in that
branch of business." --HENRY MITCHELL, January 12, 1872.

In October, 1876, Mr. Henry Mitchell writes to Aris's Gazette, and says:

"You review, in your impression of the 23d inst., a work entitled 'British Manufacturing Industries--the
Birmingham Trades,' in which the history of steel pens forms a prominent chapter.  I beg to
point out that my late father's name--John Mitchell--is certainly mentioned in a list of the
manufacturers of the article, and, to my great surprise, simply so.  In a part of the work
the author states that 'The early history of steel pens is involved in obscurity.'  My object
in writing to you is to remove that obscurity, as I am satisfied you will be equally desirous
of giving honor to whom honor is due.  I claim that honor for my late father--John Mitchell--who
was the first to introduce the making of steel pens by means of tools, which were purely his
own invention, and I will leave it to an enlightened public to judge if it is not one of the
greatest benefits conferred on any civilized community.  Whatever others may have done does
not remove the fact that the inventor I have named was my father; and it is only due to him
that posterity should know who originated the means whereby millions of human beings of the
present time, and generations yet unborn are, and will be, enabled to communicate their thoughts
to each other with a facility they otherwise would not have had.  For, unless the steel pen
had been manufactured by tools and machinery, that useful article would virtually be at a prohibitory
price.  The date of the invention I believe to be 1822 or thereabouts."

This is very emphatic; but how far may it be taken as an unprejudiced statement of facts? Well,
it has never been contradicted; and Gillott never made a claim on his own behalf, as having
made pens before Mitchell.  Mason gave the year 1828 as the date when he commenced making pens,
so that the evidence is in favor of Mitchell.

We have heard this statement of Henry Mitchell confirmed by a man who worked for Mitchell,
as a boy, and who remembered pens being made for Sheldon by Mitchell.  It is probable at this
early period the pens were made for a few dealers, and the general public was unacquainted
with the names of the manufacturers.  This circumstance has no doubt contributed to involve
in  obscurity the early operations of Mitchell and Gillott.  In a notice in Lardner's Cyclopoedia
(written by Mr. John Holland, of Sheffield), published in 1833, the names of three penmakers
only are given--Perry, Heeley, and Skinner.  From this it might be supposed that there were
no other penmakers at this date; but Gillott had taken out a patent in 1831, and the names
of both Mitchell and Gillott appeared as penmakers in Wrightson's Birmingham Directory for
1830.  It cannot be supposed that Mr. Holland wilfully omitted to mention the names of Mitchell
and Gillott, for this writer was an impartial and painstaking collector of facts, but it is
probable the notice was written some time before it was published; and, like many little masters,
Mitchell and Gillot were only known as penmakers to the wholesale dealers in Birmingham, upon
whom they depended for orders, consequently Mr. Holland would be ignorant of their existence.

In speaking of the demand for steel pens, the writer in Lardner's says: "The rage originated
chiefly, if not altogether, in the successful speculations of Mr. James Perry, of London, whose
pens, however short their merits may fall of the praise of the inventor, are certainly superior
to most others composed of a like material.  Perry began to make steel pens, in Manchester,
in 1819, and in London in 1824."  The press and tools with which these pens were made are still
in the possession of Perry and Co., at their warehouse in the Holburn Viaduct.  This fact tends
to confirm the statement that Mr. James Perry was one of the earliest experimenters in the
manufacture of the article.  Levesley says he bought one of Perry's pens, which he saw in a
shop window in Sheffield, in 1825, and he took it to his workshop and improved upon it. This
is somewhat similar to the account given by Mason of his first experiment in pen making.  Mason
saw a pen of Perry's in the window of a bookseller named Peart, in Bull Street, Birmingham,
in 1828, which he purchased and took home.  Finding he could produce a better article, which
could be sold at a cheaper rate, he made some and sent them to Mr. James Perry, in, London,
and that gentleman shortly after waited upon Josiah Mason, at his place of business in Lancaster
Street, and the interview resulted in Mason beginning to make pens for Perry.  It will be remembered
that the writer in the Sheffield Daily Telegraph stated that the earliest experimenter in form
and material was Perry.

Leaving the honor of having originated the application of labor-saving machinery for the manufacture
of steel pens to Mitchell, it would appear that the merit of having popularized the article
is due to Perry.  In 1830, Mr. James Perry issued a circular containing a series of engravings
of metallic pens, showing the improvements he had patented in their manufacture.  In this circular
it is stated: "Till about six months ago the public had heard little of metallic pens.  At
present, it would seem that comparatively few of any other kind are in the hands of any class
of the community.  This sudden transition may clearly be traced to the announcement of the
Patent Perryian Pens in various periodicals, about six months ago, and to the general demand
which ensued for that pen in every part of the empire,"

Although this might be regarded as an ex-parte statement, it is confirmed by independent testimony
that Perry popularized the article. The Saturday Magazine, 1838, says:

"About twelve years ago (1825), the celebrated Perryian pens first appeared.  Mr. Perry may
be regarded in the light of a great improver; many of his pens are ingenious and original in
construction.  He arranges his pens into genera and species.  Mr. Perry first overcame the
rigidity complained of in steel pens by introducing apertures between the shoulder and point
of the pen, thus transferring the elasticity of the pen to a position below instead of above
the shoulder.  This was the subject of his patent in 1830."

Mr. Sam: Timmins, in 1866, writes:

"No skill in manufacture, however, could conquer the prejudice against any metallic pen, and
to Mr. James Perry the world is much indebted for persevering advocacy of the steel pen, and
for one of the most important improvements in its form.  Mr. Perry, with his characteristic
energy, almost forced the steel pen into use, and was supplied with pens of a first-class quality
by Mr. Josiah Mason, of this town."

Furthermore, it is certain that about this time, steel pens began rapidly to supersede the
use of quills,* and the trade was recognized as a rising industry.  It is true that it still
retained the secretive character with which its operations were conducted in its earlier days,
which indeed in some respects distinguish it at the present time.  Its activity or dullness
seldom troubles the writers of the "Trade Reports" in the local press, although they sometimes
inform their readers about good orders having been placed for mousetraps, stove screws, snuffer
trays, candle extinguishers, and sad irons.

*In a humorous article, "The Web-footed Interests," which appeared in Tait's Edinburgh Magazine,
vol. iii., page 280 (1833), there is a petition to the House of Commons, from Ganders, Geese
& Goslings, setting forth the evils likely to ensue from the use of metallic pens. It prognosticates
depression in agriculture and manufactures consequent upon a diminution in the amount of grain
consumed, and a falling off in the demand for penknives; and draws an alarming picture of the
possible failure of the supply of iron ware, and the total extinction of literature, likely
to ensue through a stoppage in the supply of steel pens,--the web-footed interest being supposed
to have ceased to exist. The petition concludes with a prayer that the manufacture of metallic
pens be prohibited.

To the writers of the present generation, who can purchase fairly-good pens at one shilling
or one shilling and sixpence per gross, it seems hard to realize that people once gave one
shilling each for substitutes for quills.  It is true that quills could then be bought for
a halfpenny and penny each, but how difficult it was to acquire the art of successfully manipulating
the same into a pen the following anecdote from "Edwards' Life of Rowland Hill" will testify:

"Mrs. Sinkinson, of Jamaica Row, Birmingham, tells me she went to a school in Hurst Street,
and that she remembered that old Mr. Hill came one day a week to teach arithmetic, and Rowland
[Sir Rowland Hill] on another to teach writing.  In those days there were no steel pens, and
Rowland couldn't mend a pen, so that whenever he came he was accompanied by his brother, Matthew
Davenport, whose office it was to mend the pens used by the pupils the preceding week."

Sir Josiah Mason used to relate a similar circumstance in his own life, when at Kidderminster,
that he accompanied his brother Richard, who was a Sunday-school teacher, to mend the pens.

Comparing the crude specimens of early steel pens with the finished productions of the present
day, we may be inclined to think that some praise was due to the people who persevered in the
use of them; but that the purchasers of these early productions did appreciate them we have
the testimony of Mr. Robert Griffin, who says that he wrote for eight weeks, eight hours a
day, with a pen made by Perry, in 1824. Now, the old "scribes," as the law stationers' writers
were called, were generally allowed one quill a day, and as the work of the day usually wore
out the longest quill, a considerable amount of time must have been occupied in the renovation
of the article.* This would be a serious inconvenience to those who could manufacture a quill
into a pen, but as this was by no means an universal accomplishment, we can form an idea how
even these clumsy substitutes found purchasers at such high prices.

*The writer recollects the tedious waiting for the patient usher, who from desk to desk with
his penknife, mending pens, and paying very little attention to anything else; also the wonder
felt and expressed at the first sight of steel nibs, and how they dug into the paper.

Tom Hood, in his "Whims and Oddities," gives some idea of the pre-steel-pen era:

 "In times begone, when each man cut his quill,
     With little Perryian skill;
 What horrid, awkward, bungling tools of trade
 Appeared the writing instruments, home made!
 What pens were sliced, hewed, hacked, and haggled out,
 Slit or unslit, with many a various snout,
 Aquiline, Roman, crooked, square, and snubby,
     Humpy and stubby;
 Some capable of ladye-billets neat,
 Some only fit for ledger-keeping clerk,
 And some to grub down, Peter Stubbs, his mark,
 Or smudge through some illegible receipt,
 Others in florid caligraphic plans,
 Equal to ships, and wiggy heads, and swans!
 To try in any common inkstands then,
 With all their miscellaneous stocks,
     To find a decent pen,
 Was like a dip into a lucky-box;
 You drew, and got one very curly,
 And split like endive in some hurly-burly;
 The next unslit, a square at end, a spade;
 The third, incipient pop-gun, not yet made;
 The fourth a broom; the fifth of no avail,
 Turned upwards, like a rabbit's tail;
 And last, not least, by way of a relief,
 A stump that Master Richard, James, or John
 Had tried his candle cookery upon,
     Making 'roast beef!'"

These early pens were at first made from a piece of steel formed into a tube, and filed into
the shape of a pen by hand, the joint of the two edges forming the slit.  Afterward a blank
was roughly punched out, filed into shape, and the slit marked out with a chisel while the
blank was in a soft state.  It was then shaped, hardened, tempered, ground, and the slit cracked
through by means of a hammer and tool at the place where the mark had been made.  The engravings
of the pens by Edwards, which appeared in Wrightson's Directory, 1823, seem to indicate that
the piercing, side cutting and slitting were executed by mechanical appliances.  Possibly,
Edwards was not a manufacturer himself, but had his pens made for him by Mitchell.

In the pre-steel-pen era there were many attempts made to supersede quills.  In "Peveril of
the Peak," Mistress Chiffinch speaks of her diamond pen.  There was a pen the nibs of which
were of ruby, set in gold, made by Doughty.  Dr. Wollaston made gold pens tipped with, rhodium.

During the time the early makers of steel pens were perfecting the article, several experimenters
were offering to the public writing instruments made from various materials.  Hawkins and Mordan,
in 1823, made use of horn and tortoise- shell, which was cut into "nibs," softened in water,
and small pieces of ruby and other precious stones were then embedded in by pressure. In this
way they insured durability and great elasticity.  In order to give stability to the nib thin
pieces of gold or other metal were affixed to the tortoise-shell.

Looking back at the early operations of the trade, and considering that steel pens were made
by hand at the beginning of the present century, we can scarcely understand why the idea of
cheapening the production by the application of labor-saving contrivances did not occur to
those inventive geniuses, the proprietors of Soho.  Boulton had expended some time in perfecting
the manufacture of steel buttons. That local Admirable Crichton, Humphrey Jefferies, does not
appear to have ever directed his attention to the manufacture of this article, which has now
become a prime necessity of civilization.  Yet we hear of his success in the improvement of
buttons, and button-makers must have used the screw press and tools for cutting out the blank
and shaping it into form; and the process of slitting had been anticipated, for printers had
a brass rule-cutting machine in use, the cutters of which bore a strong resemblance to those
now used for slitting steel pens.  Like most of the pioneers in the path of invention, the
majority of the early makers of pens were men whose business pursuits gave them no special
facilities for entering upon the manufacture of steel pens.  The progress of the trade from
1829 (with the exception of the period when Perry and Gillott first commenced advertising)
had been gradual, but satisfactory.  In one of Gillott's early advertisements, he stated that
he made 490,361 gross in 1842, and 730,031 in 1843.  This was an advance by leaps and bounds
which has not since been maintained.  Although Mason commenced making pens for Perry in the
year 1828, yet it was not till 1861 that his name became known in England as a steel-pen maker.
Many merchants in Birmingham and Wolverhampton, who purchased steel rings from him, had no
idea that he was a maker of pens; yet on the Continent of Europe pens bearing his name were
eagerly sought after.  Subsequent to 1861 he was associated with Perry, until, in 1876, the
trade-marks, patents, etc., were purchased by a limited liability company, who now, under the
name of "Perry & Co.," have become the largest manufacturers of pens in the world.

At the present time (1889) there are thirteen firms engaged in the trade in Birmingham, and
they make up about twenty-four tons of steel per week into pens and penholder tips.  Making
due allowance for the material used in the latter article, this consumption would probably
represent a weekly average production of 200,000 grosses of pens.  The Birmingham penmakers
employ about 3,500 women and girls, and 650 men and boys; and besides these the number of women
and girls working at making paper boxes, in which the pens are packed, would probably exceed
300.  In addition to this there are several mills where steel is rolled for those firms who
have not sufficient power on their own premises, but there is a difficulty in stating the number
of hands employed.  The wages of the females range from four shillings to fifteen shillings;
those of the boys from five shillings to ten shillings. The unskilled workmen earn from twelve
shillings to twenty-four shillings; and skilled men, or toolmakers, command wages varying from
twenty-five shillings to three pounds.  Most of the females work upon the piece-work system,
but the men are paid weekly wages.

In 1835, upon the authority of a writer in the Mechanics' Magazine, two tons two hundred weight
of steel were used weekly in the manufacture of pens.  Mr. Sam: Timmins made an approximate
estimate that six and a half tons of steel were used per week for steel pens in 1849, and again,
in 1886, he gives the amount of steel as having increased to ten tons.  It is at all times
difficult to form an accurate estimate of the quantity of material used, but we believe we
are within the mark in putting down the present consumption of steel at twenty-two tons weekly.
From this it would appear that the trade has doubled its production during the last twenty
years.  Besides these Birmingham houses there are some four or five manufactories on the Continent,
and two in the United States, but their productions have not increased in the same ratio as
that of their English rivals.

During the last twenty years a great improvement has taken place in the style of boxes and
labels in which the pens are packed.  Formerly (with the exception of the goods issued by Gillott
and Sommerville) most of the pens were sold in boxes of the plainest description; now the covers
or labels are printed in a number of colors from elaborate designs, by first-class artists,
and in some cases the boxes are ornamented with well-executed portraits of royal, political,
literary, or artistic celebrities.  There are many peculiarities connected with the public
taste as manifested in the demand for pens.  The Germans use a greater variety of patterns
than any other nation.  The English taste is more restricted, and is generally confined to
articles of the plainer shapes.  Autocratic Russia and democratic America make use of the fewest
patterns.  By a regulation of the Imperial Government, pens in boxes, bearing portraits of
the Russian royal family are prevented from entering the country, and in America public taste
does not favor a demand for portrait boxes.  By a law which came into operation the 1st of
January, 1886, no pens can be imported into Russia bearing the name of a Russian firm.  The
probable purpose of this law was to encourage the establishment of a Russian manufactory. 
At present there are no pen works in Russia.  An attempt was made in Moscow, in 1876-8, to
manufacture steel pens, but the experiment proved a failure.  The Germans and French are the
largest buyers of first-class pens, but the Italians are content with articles of the commonest
character.  The chief demand for three-pointed pens comes from Spain. At present the demand
for steel pens is chiefly confined to European nations and their descendants.  The great Asiatic
nations still write with pens made from reeds, or camel-hair pencils.  A few of the natives
of India and Japan, and some of the subjects of the Sultan and Khe'dive are beginning to make
use of steel pens adapted to the peculiarities of their writing.  From this it would appear
that the possibilities of the progress of the trade in the future are very favorable; but in
the meantime its productions are scattered over the globe, and even in some of the darkest
corners of the earth pioneers of civilization are to be found transcribing the results of their
experience with the aid of that great factor of nineteenth-century progress--an English Steel Pen.

         THE MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
               OF STEEL PENS.

The steel from which the greater part of the metallic pens are manufactured comes from Sheffield.
Notwithstanding the many names given by the venders of steel pens to the material from which
they are manufactured there are but two sorts--good and bad--and therefore Peruvian, Damascus,
Amalgam, and Silver Steel are but fancy names.  As a matter of fact, where a number of prefixes
are used to describe the quality of an article it is generally found to have no claim to any
of them.

The raw material is received from Sheffield in sheets six feet in length, one foot five inches
in width, and 23 or 26 Birmingham wire-gauge in thickness. The first operation is the cutting
of these sheets into strips of convenient width.  They are then packed in an oblong iron box,
placed with the open top downward in another box of the same material, and the interstices
are filled up with a composition to exclude the air.  The boxes are placed in a muffle, where
they remain until they have gradually attained a dull red heat, and the muffle is allowed to
gradually cool, or else the boxes are placed in a cooling chamber.  When the boxes have been
reduced to a temperature which will admit of their being handled, the contents (technically
called a charge) are emptied out.  Now, it will be found that the strips of steel are covered
with bits of small scale, sticking to them like a loose skin, and if this were not removed
before the next process--rolling--the steel, instead of being perfectly smooth, would be marked
with a number of indentations, rendering it very unsightly.  In order to get rid of this excrescence,
the strips are immersed in a bath of diluted sulphuric acid, which loosens the scale, and are
then placed in wood barrels to which broken pebbles and water are added.  The barrels are kept
revolving until the whole of the scaly substance has been removed and the strips have assumed
a silver-gray appearance. The steel is now ready for manipulation in the rolling mill, where
it is passed between successive pairs of rolls until it has been reduced to the required gauge,
and this operation has to be performed with such nicety that a variation of one thousand part
of an inch in the thickness of the strip would make such an alteration in the flexibility of
the pens made from it as to cause considerable dissatisfaction to the purchasers of the article.

The steel on leaving the mill is conveyed to the gauging room, and it will be found to have
increased to three times its original length, and now appears with a bright surface.  Hitherto
the operations have been conducted by men and boys; but now, in the course of manufacture,
the pens will enter on a series of processes in which the quick and delicate fingers of women
and girls play an important part.  The strips of steel are now given out to the cutters.  The
Toolmaker, who, as a rule, both makes and sets the tools, has placed in what is known as a
bolster a die, having a hole perforated through it of the exact shape of the blank to be cut;
and attached to the bottom of the screwed bolt of the press is a punch, also bearing the exact
shape of the blank.  The girl with her left hand introduces one of the strips of steel at the
back of the press, and, pulling the handle toward her with the right hand, the screw descends,
driving the punch into the bed, and in so doing has perforated the strip of steel with a scissors-like
cut, making a blank which falls through the opening in the die into a drawer below.  Now, with
her left hand she pulls the strip toward her until it is stopped by a little projection called
a guide; and again the right hand moves the handle, the screw descends, and another blank is
cut.  The operation is continued until the whole of one side of the strip is perforated; it
is then reversed and the other side treated in a similar way.  If you were to hold up the strip
thus manipulated--now called scrap--you would find that in some particular part the perforations
approach so nearly to each other as to form a slight bar, which breaks easily between the thumb
and finger.  This is rendered necessary from the fact that steel scrap is worth only one-fifth
of the value of the raw material, and, as under the most favorable conditions, the scrap averages
one-third the original weight given out for cutting, it behooves the manufacturer to reduce
the scrap as much as practicable.  If these blanks are examined, a small V-shaped indentation,
looking like a defect, will be found upon the upper edge of that part inserted in the holder.
This small mark plays an important part in the succeeding processes.  To a casual observer
there does not appear much difference between the two sides of the blank; but, however well
the tools are made, that side of the blank which is uppermost in cutting out will be rougher
than the under side.  This mark enables the operator to distinguish at a glance the smooth
side, and by always keeping the rough side upward the burr is polished off in a later process.
The blanks are now ready to be passed to the next process--marking.  This operation is performed
by a female, with the aid of a stamp.  The precise mark required is cut upon a piece of steel,
and, being placed in the hammer of the stamp, the girl puts her right foot into a stirrup attached
to a rope, which is passed round a pulley, and, pressing downward, causes the hammer to ascend.
Taking a handful of blanks with her left hand, by a dexterous motion she makes a little train
of them between the thumb and finger in parallel order, presenting the first in the most ready
position to be passed to the other hand.  The right hand is brought toward the left, and, taking
a blank, places it with the point toward the worker in a guide upon the bed of the stamp, then
by suddenly letting the hammer descend a blow is struck upon the blank, which gives an impression
of the name cut upon the punch.  The quick fingers of the operator pass backward and forward
with such rapidity that a skillful girl will mark from two hundred to two hundred and fifty
gross per day.  If the mark required is unusually large, the marking process is deferred until
after the pen has been pierced, in order that the blank may be annealed (or softened), which
takes the impression more readily than the hard steel.

Now, in order to make a metallic pen suitable for writing it is necessary to consider some
means of producing elasticity, and also to devise some method by which the smooth steel shall
cause the ink to attach itself to the pen.  This is brought about by the next process-- piercing.
In this operation the tools are of a very delicate character, and as the center pierce (the
aperture in which the slit terminates) is frequently of an ornamental design the tools, being
small, have to be made with great precision.  The piercing punch and bed having been fixed
in a screw press, and an ingenious arrangement of guides fastened thereto, the girl selects
a blank from a tray on her left hand, and, placing it in its proper position by the aid of
the guides, pushes the fly of the press from her, the screw descends, driving the punch into
the bed, and the operation of piercing is completed.

The blanks are still moderately hard, and before they can be made to take the shape of a pen
it is necessary that they should be softened, which is effected by the process called annealing.
The blanks having been freed from the dust and garbase that has become attached to them are
carefully placed in round iron pots, which are again inclosed in larger ones and covered over
with charcoal dust to prevent the entrance of gases, and put into the muffle, heated to a dull
red, and then allowed to cool.

The blanks are now soft and pliable, readily taking the various shapes into which pens are
made by the next process, called raising.  This operation is performed by the aid of a punch
and die fitted into a screw-press.  The punch is fitted into a contrivance called a false nose,
fixed in the bottom of the screw of the press; and the die or bed is placed in a cylindrical
piece of steel (called a bolster) with a groove cut for the reception of the die, the bolster
being fastened to the bottom of the press by a screw underneath.  The punch and die being fixed
so as to exactly fit each other, the toolmaker places a small piece of tissue paper between
them, takes an impression, examines it, and proceeds to rectify any inequality in the pressure,
so as to insure perfection in the shape.  This being accomplished, the toolmaker fixes four
pieces of steel (called guides) to the bolster in such positions that the operator is enabled
to slide the blank into the bed, where it is held by the guides till the punch descends, forces
the blank into the bed, and gives the pen its shape.  The article is now narrower than it was
in its blank form, and the girl pushes it through the tools with a small stick held in the
hand with which she works the press handle, while with the other hand she places another blank
in its position in the bed.

The pen is now shaped or raised, but it is still soft, and consequently another process is
necessitated--hardening.  This is effected by placing the pens in thin layers in round pans
with lids. They are placed in the muffle for a period varying from twenty to thirty minutes,
during which time they have acquired a bright red heat.  The workman then withdraws them and
empties the contents into a large bucket immersed in a tank of oil.  The bucket is perforated
at the bottom, and being elevated, the oil drains off.  The pens are next placed in a perforated
cylinder, which, being set in motion, revolves and drains off the remainder of the oil.  The
pens are still greasy, and as brittle as glass; and in order to free them from the grease they
are again placed in perforated buckets and immersed in a tank of boiling soda water.  After
they are freed from the grease the pens are put into an iron cylinder, which is kept revolving
over a charcoal fire until they are softened or tempered down to the special degree required.
In this process the workman is guided by the color, which indicates the varying temperature
of the metal of which the articles are made.  Brittleness has given place to pliability, but
the pens are black in color and scratch at the point, and to remedy this defect they are subjected
to the next process--scouring.  In order to do this the pens are dipped in a bath of diluted
sulphuric acid--called pickle--which frees the articles from any extraneous substances they
may have acquired in the hardening and tempering processes.  This requires to be done with
great care, or the acid would injure the steel.  The pens are then placed in iron barrels with
a quantity of water and small pebbly-looking material.  This latter material is composed of
annealing pots broken and ground fine enough to pass readily through a fine riddle.  The barrel
being set in motion, the pens are scoured for periods varying from five to eight hours, and
are placed again in barrels with dry pot for about the same period, after which they are put
into other barrels together with a quantity of dry sawdust.  On being taken out of these barrels
the body of the pen has acquired a bright silver color, and the point has been rounded.

The article has now the shape and appearance of a finished pen, and yet it possesses none of
its characteristics, and, if tried, will be found to have no more action than a lead pencil,
as it is deficient in that important part of a writing instrument--the slit.  Before being
slit the pen is ground between the centre pierce and the point.  This process is performed
by girls, with the aid of what is called a "bob" or "glazer."  The "bob" is a circular piece
of alder wood about ten and a half inches in diameter and half an inch in width.  Round this
a piece of leather is stretched and dressed with emery.  A spindle is driven through the centre,
and the two ends placed in sockets.  The "bob" is set in motion by means of a leather band,
and the girl holding a pen firmly, with a light touch grinds off a portion of the surface.

This operation being completed, the last and most important mechanical operation has to be
performed--slitting.  The tools with which this process is effected are two oblong pieces of
steel about an inch and a half long, three-eighths of an inch thick, and an inch and a quarter
wide.  These are called the cutters, and upon the preparation and setting of these the successful
issue of the process depends.  The edges of these cutters are equal in delicacy to the cutting
edge of a razor, but the shape is more suggestive of a portion cut from the thickest part of
a large pair of shears.  The cutter being fixed in the press, a pair of guides are screwed
on either side, and a small tool called a table, or rest, being attached to the contrivance
called a bolster, which holds the bottom cutter, the operator takes a pen, places it on the
table, pushes the point up toward the guide, pulls the handle, the upper cutter descends, meets
the lower one, and the process of slitting is completed.

Now, although this operation completes the mechanical processes of pen making, the article
is by no means finished.  If you examine the pen now you will find that the outer edge of each
point is smooth, while the inside edges which have just been made by the slit are sharp and
scratch.  To remove this defect the operation of "barreling" has to be again resorted to. 
The pens are again placed in the iron barrels with pounded pot, kept revolving from five to
six hours, and finally polished in sawdust.

The pens are now of a bright silver-steel color and perfectly smooth, but as they are required
in various tints, they are colored and afterward varnished to prevent rust.  To accomplish
the first of these results the articles are placed in a copper or iron cylinder and kept revolving
over a coke fire until the requisite tint is obtained, the color depending upon the temperature
of the cylinder.  If the pens are intended to be lacquered they are placed in a solution of
shellac dissolved in methylated spirits.  The spirit is drained off, and the pens are placed
in wire cylinders and kept revolving until the action of the air dries the lacquer.  They are
then scattered upon iron trays, inserted in an oven, and the heat diffuses the lacquer equally
over the surface of the pens, so that when they have cooled down they have a glossy appearance,
which gives to them an air of finish and prevents rust.

The pen is now finished as far as manufacturing processes are concerned, yet before it can
be offered to the public it has to undergo a rigid examination called "looking over."  This
is performed by trained girls, and when the defective ones have been sorted  out the good pens
are sent to the finished warehouse to be put up into boxes.  These boxes are of various descriptions,
adapted to suit the markets for which they are intended.  In many instances the labels which
form the covers of the boxes are elaborately printed from first-class designs, and some of
them have highly-finished steel engravings of royal personages and celebrities in the scientific,
literary, musical, and political world.  The quantities contained in these boxes vary with
the countries for which they are intended; for the manufacturers study the wants of their customers,
and do not offer articles counted in dozens to people who reckon by tens.

We have now traced the manufacture of this little article from its beginning as a plain piece
of steel through all its stages until it has developed into that indispensable requisite of
daily life--a pen.

           HISTORY OF THE PERRYIAN
                 PEN WORKS.

The firm of Messrs. Perry & Co., London, was founded in the year 1824 by Mr. James Perry, who
carried on business originally in Manchester, then in London.  Mr. James Perry died in the
year 1843.  Mr. Stephen Perry, who conducted the business afterward in partnership with Mr.
Hayes and others, died in the year 1873, and was succeeded by his sons, Messrs. Joseph John
and Lewis Henry Perry.  The firm of Perry & Co. was known all over Europe as the house which
first introduced to the commercial world steel pens of a superior quality, and in many countries
steel pens are now known under the general denomination of "Perry pens."  The first pens were
manufactured by Perry & Co. in London, principally from flattened or ribbon steel wire, and
in the year 1828 Mr. Josiah, afterward Sir Josiah, Mason, then a manufacturer of steel split
rings, produced steel pens so much superior to the pens made up to that period that Messrs.
Perry & Co. entered into contracts with him for the sole supply of all the pens they might
require; this connection continued up to the time of the formation of this company.  In the
meantime, Messrs. Perry & Co. had also introduced the sale of elastic bands and pencil cases;
the production of the latter was confided to Mr. W.E. Wiley, who, in the year 1850, began the
manufacture first of gold pens, afterward of pencil cases.  Messrs. Perry & Co. also contracted
with Mr. Wiley for the purchase of all the pencil cases they might dispose of, and thus Mr.
Wiley's works assumed gigantic proportions.  Mr. Alfred Sommerville, who had been connected
with the steel-pen trade since its infancy, established the firm of A. Sommerville & Co. in
the year 1851. Although he, in the year 1857, began manufacturing steel pens in connection
with a partner, he likewise contracted with Mr. Josiah Mason for a superior class of steel
pens, principally intended for the Continental markets, and many of which were either his own
invention or suggested by him.  Mr. Sommerville desiring to retire from business, Sir Josiah
Mason purchased his trade in the year 1870, but continued to carry it on under the old style
of A. Sommerville & Co. These four businesses being so intimately connected and dependent upon
each other, some gentlemen of eminence in the manufacturing town of Birmingham decided, in
conjunction with some of the leading proprietors, to establish a limited company, for the purpose
of uniting and amalgamating inseparably the various establishments, and thus the company of
"Perry & Co., Limited," was formed.

On the spot forming the principal entrance to the works, Mr. Samuel Harrison, in the year 1778,
founded a manufactory in which he carried on his invention of steel split rings; but Mr. Harrison,
who was an ingenious mechanic, also manufactured mathematical instruments, some of which were
used by Dr. Priestley in his researches, and on one occasion he made a steel pen for Dr. Priestley,
probably the first steel pen ever produced.  Mr. Josiah Mason succeeded to the business of
Mr. Harrison in 1823, and in 1828 began the manufacture of steel pens.  For several years he
gave his whole attention to improvements in the manufacture of steel pens, and Mr. Perry took
out several most important patents for the improvement of steel pens, many of which have not
been surpassed in ingenuity or in utility, and the principal among them, the so-called "double
patent," is universally applied by the pen trade to a great number of pens to this very day.
In 1842 Mr. Mason's attention was absorbed by the process of electroplating and gilding, at
that time invented and carried on by Mr. Elkington, in partnership with whom he founded the
great firm of Elkington, Mason & Co. For some years the production of pens flagged, but in
1852 a nephew of Sir Josiah Mason, Mr. Isaac Smith (deceased in 1868), gave a new stimulus
to the manufacture of pens, and from that time the production gradually increased until it
assumed its present proportions.  The manufactory now covers nearly two acres; it occupies
a whole square and fronts four streets.  In the building fronting Lancaster Street (five stories
high) the offices, warehouses and storerooms of finished goods are distributed.  The underground
floor forms a huge machine shop, in which all the presses, rolls, and general iron and machine
work employed throughout the manufactory are produced by skillful mechanics.  Behind the front
building there are several courtyards and quadrangles, in the largest of which are placed in
a row five double-flue boilers, each 20 feet long by 7 feet diameter, working at a pressure
of more than 55 lb. to the square inch, supplying the steam power both for propelling the steam
engines and for heating  the manufactory.  In the rolling mill, measuing 64 by 38 feet, three
double-cylinder engines, working up to 293 indicated horsepower, give motion to 18 pairs  of
rolls, rolling four to six tons of steel per week.  The largest workshops are the slitting
and grinding rooms, 64 by 38 feet, the latter 24 feet high.  In the slitting room 90 girls
apply the last mechanical process to the manufacture of steel pens, in slitting them by presses
of ingenious construction.  In the grinding room more than 160 girls are busily employed cross
and straight grinding steel pens on wood cylinders covered with emery.  The room in which the
finished pens are placed in boxes measures 54 by 30 feet, and in it alone are employed 50 girls
boxing and labeling steel pens, or fitting penholder tips on handles of various materials,
principally of cedar.  In that part of the building having a frontage on Corporation Street
there is a dining room 86 feet 6 inches long by 68 feet wide, fitted up with tables to accommodate
600 people.  Here the employees are served with a warm dinner at prices varying from 2d. to
6d.  At one end of the room there is a stage, where dramatic entertainments and concerts are
given in the winter season by the workpeople.  At the other end there is a library, in a glazed
partition, containing about 2,000 volumes of standard works.  These books are issued to the
hands employed by the firm free.  One of the important features of this manufactory is the
employment of muffles heated by gas produced from Siemens's gas generators.  These muffles
allow the heat to be regulated to a nicety, and enable the company to carry on the process
of annealing and hardening to very great perfection.

The manufacture of steel pens employs in all about 900 workpeople, the weekly production is
45,000 gross, which quantity will shortly be increased to 50,000 gross, per week.  Six smaller
steam engines are employed independently of those already mentioned in various parts of the
works.  The manufacture of penholder sticks is carried on in two separate buildings.  Penholder
sticks were produced by Mr. Mason as far back as 1835, but their manufacture had lapsed; it
was only resumed eight years ago, since which time, by new and ingenious machinery, principally
the inventions of Mr. W. E. Wiley, the managing director, it has assumed proportions of great
magnitude.

The pencil case and solitaire works carried on by Mr. Wiley, first alone, and then in co-partnership
with his son in Graham Street, have now been transferred to Lancaster Street.

Pencil cases, first introduced by Messrs. Mordan & Lund, in London, have undergone various
changes and improvements, the principal of which was a lead holder passing through the point
of the pencil case, which was slit for that purpose.  This invention was patented by Mr. Wiley
in the year 1857, and created a complete revolution in the pencil-case trade, as it enabled
the manufacturers to use a thicker and longer lead, which could be propelled and withdrawn
at will and would last in daily use more than six months.  This patented mechanism was introduced
into cases made from hard wood, bone and ivory, but since the year 1868 a composition called
aluminium gold, so resembling gold that it cannot be distinguished from it, and resisting the
effects of oxidation, consequently free from tarnish, made a further revolution in the pencil-case
trade, enabling the million to possess an elegant and highly-wrought pencil case at a very
moderate price. Messrs. Perry & Co., of London, gave to this manufacture publicity in every
part of Europe, and the quantities produced and sold are incredible.

In 1874 a new patent was added to the many inventions for which this establishment was famous.
Its purpose was to produce a solitaire stud made in two parts, so as to enable its ready application
without the trouble of passing a button of large diameter through a small buttonhole.  A self-acting
steel spring is fixed in the upper part of the stud, and snaps as soon as inserted into the
lower part, where a slight pressure on two projections releases the springs and permits the
separation of the two parts.  These solitaires are manufactured of gold, silver, and a variety
of other metals, the principal of which is gold plate.  There are now more than five hundred
patterns in existence, and this useful manufacture grows daily in extension. Perry & Co.'s
paper binders, an article now universally used for fastening together loose papers, cloth patterns,
etc., are produced in infinite styles and sizes, principally by self-acting machinery.

The total number of workpeople employed in the company's manufactories exceeds 1,300.

The business of Perry & Co. was carried on for more than forty years at 37 Red Lion Square,
London, but the increase of business and the reconstruction of London required that a more
central position should be found for the development of the commercial department of the company.
Large and handsome warehouses having been constructed on the Holborn Viaduct, the company transferred
their London depot to a building five stories high on the side fronting the Holborn Viaduct
and eight stories high at the back.  In this immense warehouse are stored not only the produce
of the manufactories of this company, but also special articles for which this firm has been
famous for the last thirty years, principally the elastic or endless bands, patented by Mr.
Daft and Mr. Stephen Perry, and originally introduced by Perry & Co. in conjunction with McIntosh
& Co., afterward in conjunction with Warne & Co.  Perry's Royal Aromatic Bands are now an indispensable
article, and may be procured in every city of the world.  Every fancy article required by stationers
can be found in these vast stores.  An illustrated price current which appears monthly, and
which numbers more than 120 pages, gives fair idea of the variety of articles of which samples
and stock can be found ready for daily delivery.  The increase of business has been so rapid
that the company found it necessary to lease the adjoining premises, which is stored with some
of the two thousand articles forming the staple trade of the London depot, and the principal
of which are the following: American Letter Files, Clips (now manufactured in Lancaster Street),
Marking and other Inks, Aromatic Bands, Audascript Pens, Bostonite Goods, Cigar Lighters, Copying
Ink and Copying Ink Powder, Copying Ink Pencils, Copying Presses, Corrugated Imperial Bands,
Essence of Ink, Grease Extractors, India Rubber for Erasing, Ink and Pencil Erasers, Ink Extractors,
Patent and other Inkstands in every variety, Key Rings, Letter Clips, Letter Files, Metallic
Books, Paper Binders, Pencil Point Protectors, Pencils and Pencil Cases, Penholders, Pen Knives,
Pen Racks, Gold Pens, Portfolios, Presses, Scotch Tartan Fancy Goods, Solitaires or Sleeve
Links, etc., etc., etc.

This establishment is under the exclusive management of Mr. Joseph J. Perry, managing director.

[The illustrations in this work are engraved from pen-and-ink sketches executed by Walter Langley
with a Perry's No. 25 pen.]

