For numbers and equations, underscores before bracketed numbers in equations denote a subscript.

Minor typos have been corrected.

PREFACE.

Knowledge in dairying, like all other technical industries, has grown mainly out of experience.
Many facts have been learned by observation, but the why of each is frequently shrouded in mystery.

Modern dairying is attempting to build its more accurate knowledge upon a broader and surer
foundation, and in doing this is seeking to ascertain the cause of well-established processes.
In this, bacteriology is playing an important rôle. Indeed, it may be safely predicted that
future progress in dairying will, to a large extent, depend upon bacteriological research.
As Fleischmann, the eminent German dairy scientist, says: "The gradual abolition of uncertainty
surrounding dairy manufacture is the present important duty which lies before us, and its solution
can only be effected by bacteriology."

It is therefore natural that the subject of Dairy Bacteriology has come to occupy an important
place in the curriculum of almost every Dairy School. An exposition of its principles is now
recognized as an integral part of dairy science, for modern dairy practice is rapidly adopting
the methods that have been developed as the result of bacteriological study. The rapid development
of the subject has necessitated a frequent revision of this work, and it is gratifying to the
writer that the attempt which has been made to keep these Outlines abreast of bacteriological
advance has been appreciated by students of dairying.

While the text is prepared more especially for the practical dairy operator who wishes to understand
the principles and reasons underlying his art, numerous references to original investigations
have been added to aid the dairy investigator who wishes to work up the subject more thoroughly.

My acknowledgments are due to the following for the loan of illustrations: Wisconsin Agricultural
Experiment Station; Creamery Package Mfg. Co., Chicago, Ill.; and A. H. Reid, Philadelphia, Pa.

        H. L. Russell.
           University of Wisconsin.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I. Structure of the bacteria and conditions governing their development and distribution
1

CHAPTER II. Methods of studying bacteria                            13

CHAPTER III. Contamination of milk                                  19

CHAPTER IV. Fermentations in milk and their treatment               62

CHAPTER V. Relation of disease-bacteria to milk                     82

  Diseases transmissible from animal to man
  through diseased milk                                             84

  Diseases transmissible to man through infection
  of milk after withdrawal                                          94

CHAPTER VI. Preservation of milk for commercial purposes           102

CHAPTER VII. Bacteria and butter making                            134

  Bacterial defects in butter                                      156

CHAPTER VIII. Bacteria in cheese                                   160

  Influence Of bacteria in normal cheese processes                 160

  Influence of bacteria in abnormal cheese processes               182

CHAPTER I.

STRUCTURE OF THE BACTERIA AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING THEIR DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION.

Before one can gain any intelligent conception of the manner in which bacteria affect dairying,
it is first necessary to know something of the life history of these organisms in general,
how they live, move and react toward their environment.

~Nature of Bacteria.~ Toadstools, smuts, rusts and mildews are known to even the casual observer,
because they are of evident size. Their plant-like nature can be more readily understood from
their general structure and habits of life. The bacteria, however, are so small, that under
ordinary conditions, they only become evident to our unaided senses by the by-products of their
activity.

When Leeuwenhoek (pronounced Lave-en-hake) in 1675 first discovered these tiny, rapidly-moving
organisms he thought they were animals. Indeed, under a microscope, many of them bear a close
resemblance to those minute worms found in vinegar that are known as "vinegar-eels." The idea
that they belonged to the animal kingdom continued to hold ground until after the middle of
the nineteenth century; but with the improvement in microscopes, a more thorough study of these
tiny structures was made possible, and their vegetable nature demonstrated. The bacteria as
a class are separated from the fungi mainly by their method of growth; from the lower algae
by the absence of chlorophyll, the green coloring matter of vegetable organisms.

~Structure of bacteria.~ So far as structure is concerned the bacteria stand on the lowest
plane of vegetable life. The single individual is composed of but a single cell, the structure
of which does not differ essentially from that of many of the higher types of plant life. It
is composed of a protoplasmic body which is surrounded by a thin membrane that separates it
from neighboring cells that are alike in form and size.

~Form and size.~ When a plant is composed of a single cell but little difference in form is
to be expected. While there are intermediate stages that grade insensibly into each other,
the bacteria may be grouped into three main types, so far as form is concerned. These are spherical,
elongated, and spiral, and to these different types are given the names, respectively, coccus,
bacillus and spirillum (plural, cocci, bacilli, spirilla) (fig. 1). A ball, a short rod, and
a corkscrew serve as convenient models to illustrate these different forms.

In size, the bacteria are the smallest organisms that are known to exist. Relatively there
is considerable difference in size between the different species, yet in absolute amount this
is so slight as to require the highest powers of the microscope to detect it. As an average
diameter, one thirty-thousandth of an inch may be taken. It is difficult to comprehend such
minute measurements, but if a hundred individual germs could be placed side by side, their
total thickness would not equal that of a single sheet of paper upon which this page is printed.

~Manner of Growth.~ As the cell increases in size as a result of growth, it elongates in one
direction, and finally a new cell wall is formed, dividing the so-called mother-cell into two,
equal-sized daughter-cells. This process of cell division, known as fission, is continued until
growth ceases and is especially characteristic of bacteria.

~Cell Arrangement.~ If fission goes on in the same plane continually, it results in the formation
of a cell-row. A coccus forming such a chain of cells is called strepto-coccus (chain-coccus).
If only two cells cohere, it is called a diplo-coccus (twin-coccus). If the second cell division
plane is formed at right angles to the first, a cell surface or tetrad is formed. If growth
takes place in three dimensions of space, a cell mass or sarcina is produced. Frequently, these
cell aggregates cohere so tenaciously that this arrangement is of value in distinguishing different
species.

~Spores.~ Some bacteria possess the property of forming spores within the mother cell (called
endospores, fig. 1g) that are analogous in function to the seeds of higher plants and spores
of fungi. By means of these structures which are endowed with greater powers of resistance
than the vegetating cell, the organism is able to protect itself from the effect of an unfavorable
environment. Many of the bacilli form endospores but the cocci do not. It is these spore forms
that make it so difficult to thoroughly sterilize milk.

~Movement.~ Many bacteria are unable to move from place to place. They have, however, a vibrating
movement known as the Brownian motion that is purely physical. Many other kinds are endowed
with powers of locomotion. Motion is produced by means of fine thread-like processes of protoplasm
known as cilia (sing. cilium) that are developed on the outer surface of the cell. By means
of the rapid vibration of these organs, the cell is propelled through the medium. Nearly all
cocci are immotile, while the bacilli may or may not be. These cilia are so delicate that it
requires special treatment to demonstrate their presence.

~Classification.~ In classifying or arranging the different members of any group of living
objects, certain similarities and dissimilarities must be considered. These are usually those
that pertain to the structure and form, as such are regarded as most constant. With the bacteria
these differences are so slight that they alone do not suffice to distinguish distinctly one
species from another. As far as these characters can be used, they are taken, but in addition,
many characteristics of a physiological nature are added. The way that the organism grows in
different kinds of cultures, the by-products produced in different media, and effect on the
animal body when injected into the same are also used as data in distinguishing one species
from another.

~Conditions favoring bacterial growth.~ The bacteria, in common with all other living organisms
are affected by external conditions, either favorably or unfavorably. Certain conditions must
prevail before development can occur. Thus, the organism must be supplied with an adequate
and suitable food supply and with moisture. The temperature must also range between certain
limits, and finally, the oxygen requirements of the organism must be considered.

~Food supply.~ Most bacteria are capable of living on dead, inert, organic matter, such as
meats, milk and vegetable material, in which case, they are known as saprophytes. In contradistinction
to this class is a smaller group known as parasites, which derive their nourishment from the
living tissues of animals or plants. The first group comprise by far the larger number of known
organisms which are concerned for the most part in the decomposition of organic matter. The
parasitic group includes those which are the cause of various communicable diseases. Between
these two groups there is no sharp line of division, and in some cases, certain species possess
the faculty of growing either as parasites or saprophytes, in which case they are known as
facultative parasites or saprophytes.

The great majority of bacteria of interest in dairying belong to the saprophytic class; only
those species capable of infecting milk through the development of disease in the animal are
parasites in the strict sense of the term. Most disease-producing species, as diphtheria or
typhoid fever, while parasitic in man lead a saprophytic method of life so far as their relation
to milk is concerned.

Bacteria require for their growth, nitrogen, hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, together with a limited
amount of mineral matter. The nitrogen and carbon are most available in the form of organic
compounds, such as albuminous material. Carbon in the form of carbohydrates, as sugar or starch,
is most readily attacked by bacteria.

Inasmuch as the bacteria are plant-cells, they must imbibe their food from material in solution.
They are capable of living on solid substances, but in such cases, the food elements must be
rendered soluble, before they can be appropriated. If nutritive liquids are too highly concentrated,
as in the case of syrups and condensed milk, bacteria cannot grow therein, although all the
necessary ingredients may be present. Generally, bacteria prefer a neutral or slightly alkaline
medium, rather than one of acid reaction; but there are numerous exceptions to this general
rule, especially among the bacteria found in milk.

~Temperature.~ Growth of bacteria can only occur within certain temperature limits, the extremes
of which are designated as the minimum and maximum. Below and above these respective limits,
life may be retained in the cell for a time, but actual cell-multiplication is stopped. Somewhere
between these two cardinal temperature points, and generally nearer the maximum limit is the
most favorable temperature for growth, known as the optimum. The temperature zone of most dairy
bacteria in which growth occurs ranges from 40°-45° F. to somewhat above blood-heat, 105°-110°
F., the optimum being from 80°-95° F. Many parasitic species, because of their adaptation to
the bodies of warm-blooded animals, generally have a narrower range, and a higher optimum,
usually approximating the blood heat (98°-99° F). The broader growth limits of bacteria in
comparison with other kinds of life explain why these organisms are so widely distributed in
nature.

~Air supply.~ Most bacteria require as do the green plants and animal life, the free oxygen
of the air for their respiration. These are called aerobic. Some species, however, and some
yeasts as well possess the peculiar property of taking the oxygen which they need from organic
compounds such as sugar, etc., and are therefore able to live and grow under conditions where
the atmospheric air is excluded. These are known as anaerobic. While some species grow strictly
under one condition or the other, and hence are obligate aerobes or anaerobes, others possess
the ability of growing under either condition and are known as facultative or optional forms.
The great majority of milk bacteria are either obligate or facultative aerobes.

~Rate of growth.~ The rate of bacterial development is naturally very much affected by external
conditions, food supply and temperature exerting the most influence. In the neighborhood of
the freezing point but little growth occurs. The rate increases with a rise in temperature
until at the optimum point, which is generally near the blood heat or slightly below (90°-98°
F.), a single cell will form two cells in 20 to 30 minutes. If temperature rises much above
blood heat rate of growth is lessened and finally ceases. Under ideal conditions, rapidity
of growth is astounding, but this initially rapid rate of development cannot be maintained
indefinitely, for growth is soon limited by the accumulation of by-products of cell activity.
Thus, milk sours rapidly at ordinary temperatures until the accumulation of acid checks its
development.

~Detrimental effect of external conditions.~ Environmental influences of a detrimental character
are constantly at work on bacteria, tending to repress their development or destroy them. These
act much more readily on the vegetating cell than on the more resistant spore. A thorough knowledge
of the effect of these antagonistic forces is essential, for it is often by their means that
undesirable bacteria may be killed out.

~Effect of cold.~ While it is true that chilling largely prevents fermentative action, and
actual freezing stops all growth processes, still it does not follow that exposure to low temperatures
will effectually destroy the vitality of bacteria, even in the vegetative condition. Numerous
non-spore-bearing species remain alive in ice for a prolonged period, and recent experiments
with liquid air show that even a temperature of -310° F. for hours does not effectually kill
all exposed cells.

~Effect of heat.~ High temperatures, on the other hand, will destroy any form of life, whether
in the vegetative or latent stage. The temperature at which the vitality of the cell is lost
is known as the thermal death point. This limit is not only dependent upon the nature of the
organism, but varies with the time of exposure and the condition in which the heat is applied.
In a moist atmosphere the penetrating power of heat is great; consequently cell-death occurs
at a lower temperature than in a dry atmosphere. An increase in time of exposure lowers the
temperature point at which death occurs.

For vegetating forms the thermal death point of most bacteria ranges from 130°-140° F. where
the exposure is made for ten minutes which is the standard arbitrarily selected. In the spore
stage resistance is greatly increased, some forms being able to withstand steam at 210°-212°
F. from one to three hours. If dry heat is employed, 260°-300° F. for an hour is necessary
to kill spores. Where steam is confined under pressure, a temperature of 230°-240° F. for 15-20
minutes suffices to kill all spores.

~Drying.~ Spore-bearing bacteria like anthrax withstand drying with impunity; even tuberculous
material, although not possessing spores retains its infectious properties for many months.
Most of the dairy bacteria do not produce spores, and yet in a dry condition, they retain their
vitality unimpaired for considerable periods, if they are not subjected to other detrimental
influences.

~Light.~ Bright sunlight exerts on many species a powerful disinfecting action, a few hours
being sufficient to destroy all cells that are reached by the sun's rays. Even diffused light
has a similar effect, although naturally less marked. The active rays in this disinfecting
action are those of the chemical or violet end of the spectrum, and not the heat or red rays.

~Influence of chemical substances.~ A great many chemical substances exert a more or less powerful
toxic action of various kinds of life. Many of these are of great service in destroying or
holding bacterial growth in check. Those that are toxic and result in the death of the cell
are known as disinfectants; those that merely inhibit, or retard growth are known as antiseptics.
All disinfectants must of necessity be antiseptic in their action, but not all antiseptics
are disinfectants even when used in strong doses. Disinfectants have no place in dairy work,
except to destroy disease bacteria, or preserve milk for analytical purposes. Corrosive sublimate
or potassium bichromate are most frequently used for these purposes. The so-called chemical
preservatives used to "keep" milk depend for their effect on the inhibition of bacterial growth.
With a substance so violently toxic as formaldehyde (known as formalin, freezene) antiseptic
doses are likely to be exceeded. In this country most states prohibit the use of these substances
in milk. Their only function in the dairy should be to check fermentative or putrefactive processes
outside of milk and so keep the air free from taints.

~Products of growth.~ All bacteria in their development form certain more or less characteristic
by-products. With most dairy bacteria, these products are formed from the decomposition of
the medium in which the bacteria may happen to live. Such changes are known, collectively,
as fermentations, and are characterised by the production of a large amount of by-products,
as a result of the development of a relatively small amount of cell-life. The souring of milk,
the formation of butyric acid, the making of vinegar from cider, are all examples of fermentative
changes.

With many bacteria, especially those that affect proteid matter, foul-smelling gases are formed.
These are known as putrefactive changes. All organic matter, under the action of various organisms,
sooner or later undergoes decay, and in different stages of these processes, acids, alkalies,
gases and numerous other products are formed. Many of these changes in organic matter occur
only when such material is brought in direct contact with the living bacterial cell.

In other instances, soluble, non-vital ferments known as enzyms are produced by the living
cell, which are able to act on organic matter, in a medium free from live cells, or under conditions
where the activity of the cell is wholly suspended. These enzyms are not confined to bacteria
but are found throughout the animal and plant world, especially in those processes that are
concerned in digestion. Among the better known of these non-vital ferments are rennet, the
milk-curdling enzym; diastase or ptyalin of the saliva, the starch-converting enzym; pepsin
and trypsin, the digestive ferments of the animal body.

Enzyms of these types are frequently found among the bacteria and yeasts and it is by virtue
of this characteristic that these organisms are able to break down such enormous quantities
of organic matter. Most of these enzyms react toward heat, cold and chemical poisons in a manner
quite similar to the living cells. In one respect they are readily differentiated, and that
is, that practically all of them are capable of producing their characteristic chemical transformations
under anaesthetic conditions, as in a saturated ether or chloroform atmosphere.

~Distribution of bacteria.~ As bacteria possess greater powers of resistance than most other
forms of life, they are to be found more widely distributed than any other type. At the surface
of the earth, where conditions permit of their growth, they are found everywhere, except in
the healthy tissues of animals and plants. In the superficial soil layers, they exist in myriads,
as here they have abundance of nourishment. At the depth of several feet however, they diminish
rapidly in numbers, and in the deeper soil layers, from six to ten feet or more, they are not
present, because of the unsuitable growth conditions.

The bacteria are found in the air because of their development in the soil below. They are
unable to grow even in a moist atmosphere, but are so readily dislodged by wind currents that
over land areas the lower strata of the air always contain them. They are more numerous in
summer than in winter; city air contains larger numbers than country air. Wherever dried fecal
matter is present, as in barns, the air contains many forms.

Water contains generally enough organic matter in solution, so that certain types of bacterial
life find favorable growth conditions. Water in contact with the soil surface takes up many
impurities, and is of necessity rich in microbes. As the rain water percolates into the soil,
it loses its germ content, so that the normal ground water, like the deeper soil layers, contains
practically no bacterial life. Springs therefore are relatively deficient in germ life, except
as they become infected with soil organisms, as the water issues from the soil. Water may serve
to disseminate certain infectious diseases as typhoid fever and cholera among human beings,
and a number of animal maladies.

While the inner tissues of healthy animals are free from bacteria, the natural passages as
the respiratory and digestive tracts, being in more direct contact with the exterior, become
more readily infected. This is particularly true with reference to the intestinal tract, for
in the undigested residue, bacterial activity is at a maximum. The result is that fecal matter
contains enormous numbers of organisms so that the possibility of pollution of any food medium
such as milk with such material is sure to introduce elements that seriously affect the quality
of the product.

CHAPTER II.

METHODS OF STUDYING BACTERIA.

~Necessity of bacterial masses for study.~ The bacteria are so extremely small that it is impossible
to study individual germs separately without the aid of first-class microscopes. For this reason,
but little advance was made in the knowledge of these lower forms of plant life, until the
introduction of culture methods, whereby a single organism could be cultivated and the progeny
of this cell increased to such an extent in a short course of time, that they would be visible
to the unaided eye.

This is done by growing the bacteria in masses on various kinds of food media that are prepared
for the purpose, but inasmuch as bacteria are so universally distributed, it becomes an impossibility
to cultivate any special form, unless the medium in which they are grown is first freed from
all pre-existing forms of germ life. To accomplish this, it is necessary to subject the nutrient
medium to some method of sterilization, such as heat or filtration, whereby all life is completely
destroyed or eliminated. Such material after it has been rendered germ-free is kept in sterilized
glass tubes and flasks, and is protected from infection by cotton stoppers.

~Culture media.~ For culture media, many different substances are employed. In fact, bacteria
will grow on almost any organic substance whether it is solid or fluid, provided the other
essential conditions of growth are furnished. The food substances that are used for culture
purposes are divided into two classes; solids and liquids.

Solid media may be either permanently solid like potatoes, or they may retain their solid properties
only at certain temperatures like gelatin or agar. The latter two are of utmost importance
in bacteriological research, for their use, which was introduced by Koch, permits the separation
of the different forms that may happen to be in any mixture. Gelatin is used advantageously
because the majority of bacteria present wider differences due to growth upon this medium than
upon any other. It remains solid at ordinary temperatures, becoming liquid at about 70° F.
Agar, a gelatinous product derived from a Japanese sea-weed, has a much higher melting point,
and can be successfully used, especially with those organisms whose optimum growth point is
above the melting point of gelatin.

Besides these solid media, different liquid substances are extensively used, such as beef broth,
milk, and infusions of various vegetable and animal tissues. Skim-milk is of especial value
in studying the milk bacteria and may be used in its natural condition, or a few drops of litmus
solution may be added in order to detect any change in its chemical reaction due to the bacteria.

~Methods of isolation.~ Suppose for instance one wishes to isolate the different varieties
of bacteria found in milk. The method of procedure is as follows: Sterile gelatin in glass
tubes is melted and cooled down so as to be barely warm. To this gelatin which is germ-free
a drop of milk is added. The gelatin is then gently shaken so as to thoroughly distribute the
milk particles, and poured out into a sterile flat glass dish and quickly covered. This is
allowed to stand on a cool surface until the gelatin hardens. After the culture plate has been
left for twenty-four to thirty-six hours at the proper temperature, tiny spots will begin to
appear on the surface, or in the depth of the culture medium. These patches are called colonies
and are composed of an almost infinite number of individual germs, the result of the continued
growth of a single organism that was in the drop of milk which was firmly held in place when
the gelatin solidified. The number of these colonies represents approximately the number of
germs that were present in the milk drop. If the plate is not too thickly sown with these germs,
the colonies will continue to grow and increase in size, and as they do, minute differences
will begin to appear. These differences may be in the color, the contour and the texture of
the colony, or the manner in which it acts toward gelatin. In order to make sure that the seeding
in not too copious so as to interfere with continued study, an attenuation is usually made.
This consists in taking a drop of the infected gelatin in the first tube, and transferring
it to another tube of sterile media. Usually this operation is repeated again so that these
culture plates are made with different amounts of seed with the expectation that in at least
one plate the seeding will not be so thick as to prevent further study. For transferring the
culture a loop made of platinum wire is used. By passing this through a gas flame, it can be
sufficiently sterilized.

To further study the peculiarities of different germs, the separate colonies are transferred
to other sterile tubes of culture material and thus pure cultures of the various germs are
secured. These cultures then serve as a basis for continued study and must be planted and grown
upon all the different kinds of media that are obtainable. In this way the slight variations
in the growth of different forms are detected and the peculiar characteristics are determined,
so that the student is able to recognize this form when he meets it again.

These culture methods are of essential importance in bacteriology, as it is the only way in
which it is possible to secure a quantity of germs of the same kind.

~The microscope in bacterial investigation.~ In order to verify the purity of the cultures,
the microscope is in constant demand throughout all the different stages of the isolating process.
For this purpose, it is essential that the instrument used shall be one of strong magnifying
powers (600-800 diameters), combined with sharp definition.

The microscopical examination of any germ is quite as essential as the determination of culture
characteristics; in fact, the two must go hand in hand. The examination reveals not only the
form and size of the individual germs, but the manner in which they are united with each other,
as well as any peculiarities of movement that they may possess.

In carrying out the microscopical part of the work, not only is the organism examined in a
living condition, but preparations are made by using solutions of anilin dyes as staining agents.
These are of great service in bringing out almost imperceptible differences. The art of staining
has been carried to the highest degree of perfection in bacteriology, especially in the detection
of germs that are found in diseased tissues in the animal or human body.

In studying the peculiarities of any special organism, not only is it necessary that these
cultural and microscopical characters should be closely observed, but special experiments must
be carried out along different lines, in order to determine any special properties that the
germ may possess. Thus, the ability of any form to act as a fermentative organism can be tested
by fermentation experiments; the property of causing disease, studied by the inoculation of
pure cultures into animals. A great many different methods have been devised for the purpose
of studying special characteristics of different bacteria, but a full description of these
would necessarily be so lengthy that in a work of this character they must be omitted. For
details of this nature consult standard reference books on bacteriological technique.

CHAPTER III.

CONTAMINATION OF MILK.

No more important lesson is to be learned than that which relates to the ways in which milk
is contaminated with germ life of various kinds; for if these sources of infection are thoroughly
recognized they can in large measure be prevented, and so the troubles which they engender
overcome. Various organisms find in milk a congenial field for development. Yeasts and some
fungi are capable of growth, but more particularly the bacteria.

~Milk a suitable bacterial food.~ The readiness with which milk undergoes fermentative changes
indicates that it is well adapted to nourish bacterial life. Not only does it contain all the
necessary nutritive substances but they are diluted in proper proportions so as to render them
available for bacterial as well as mammalian life.

Of the nitrogenous compounds, the albumen is in readily assimilable form. The casein, being
insoluble, is not directly available, until it is acted upon by proteid-dissolving enzyms like
trypsin which may be secreted by bacteria. The fat is relatively resistant to change, although
a few forms are capable of decomposing it. Milk sugar, however, is an admirable food for many
species, acids and sometimes gases being generally produced.

~Condition when secreted.~ When examined under normal conditions milk always reveals bacterial
life, yet in the secreting cells of the udder of a healthy cow germ life is not found. Only
when the gland is diseased are bacteria found in any abundance. In the passage of the milk
from the secreting cells to the outside it receives its first infection, so that when drawn
from the animal it generally contains a considerable number of organisms.

~Contamination of milk.~ From this time until it is consumed in one form or another, it is
continually subjected to contamination. The major part of this infection occurs while the milk
is on the farm and the degree of care which is exercised while the product is in the hands
of the milk producer is the determining factor in the course of bacterial changes involved.
This of course does not exclude the possibility of contamination in the factory, but usually
milk is so thoroughly seeded by the time it reaches the factory that the infection which occurs
here plays a relatively minor rôle to that which happens earlier. The great majority of the
organisms in milk are in no wise dangerous to health, but many species are capable of producing
various fermentative changes that injure the quality of the product for butter or cheese. To
be able to control abnormal changes of an undesirable character one must know the sources of
infection which permit of the introduction of these unwelcome intruders.

~Sources of infection.~ The bacterial life that finds its way into milk while it is yet on
the farm may be traced to several sources, which may be grouped under the following heads:
unclean dairy utensils, fore milk, coat of animal, and general atmospheric surroundings. The
relative importance of these various factors fluctuates in each individual instance.

~Dairy utensils.~ Of first importance are the vessels that are used during milking, and also
all storage cans and other dairy utensils that come in contact with the milk after it is drawn.
By unclean utensils, actually visible dirt need not always be considered, although such material
is often present in cracks and angles of pails and cans. Unless cleansed with especial care,
these are apt to be filled with foul and decomposing material that suffices to seed thoroughly
the milk. Tin utensils are best. Where made with joints, they should be well flushed with solder
so as to be easily cleaned (see Fig. 6). In much of the cheaper tin ware on the market, the
soldering of joints and seams is very imperfect, affording a place of refuge for bacteria and dirt.

Cans are often used when they are in a condition wholly unsuitable for sanitary handling of
milk. When the tin coating becomes broken and the can is rusty, the quality of the milk is
often profoundly affected. Olson[1] of the Wisconsin Station has shown that the action of rennet
is greatly impaired where milk comes in contact with a rusty iron surface.

With the introduction of the form or hand separator a new milk utensil has been added to those
previously in use and one which is very frequently not well cleaned. Where water is run through
the machine to rinse out the milk particles, gross bacterial contamination occurs and the use
of the machine much increases the germ content of the milk. Every time the separator is used
it should be taken apart and thoroughly cleaned and dried before reassembling.[2]

~Use of milk-cans for transporting factory by-products.~ The general custom of using the milk-cans
to carry back to the farm the factory by-products (skim-milk or whey) has much in it that is
to be deprecated. These by-products are generally rich in bacterial life, more especially where
the closest scrutiny is not given to the daily cleaning of the vats and tanks. Too frequently
the cans are not cleaned immediately upon arrival at the farm, so that the conditions are favorable
for rapid fermentation. Many of the taints that bother factories are directly traceable to
such a cause. A few dirty patrons will thus seriously infect the whole supply. The responsibility
for this defect should, however, not be laid entirely upon the shoulders of the producer. The
factory operator should see that the refuse material does not accumulate in the waste vats
from day to day and is not transformed into a more or less putrid mass. A dirty whey tank is
not an especially good object lesson to the patron to keep his cans clean.

It is possible that abnormal fermentations or even contagious diseases may thus be disseminated.

Suppose there appears in a dairy an infectious milk trouble, such as bitter milk. This milk
is taken to the factory and passes unnoticed into the general milk-supply. The skim-milk from
the separator is of course infected with the germ, and if conditions favor its growth, the
whole lot soon becomes tainted. If this waste product is returned to the different patrons
in the same cans that are used for the fresh milk, the probabilities are strongly in favor
of some of the cans being contaminated and thus infecting the milk supply of the patrons. If
the organism is endowed with spores so that it can withstand unfavorable conditions, this taint
may be spread from patron to patron simply through the infection of the vessels that are used
in the transportation of the by-products. Connell has reported just such a case in a Canadian
cheese factory where an outbreak of slimy milk was traced to infected whey vats. Typhoid fever
among people, foot and mouth disease and tuberculosis among stock are not infrequently spread
in this way. In Denmark, portions of Germany and some states in America, compulsory heating
of factory by-products is practiced to eliminate this danger.[3]

~Pollution of cans from whey tanks.~ The danger is greater in cheese factories than in creameries,
for whey usually represents a more advanced stage of fermentation than skim-milk. The higher
temperature at which it is drawn facilitates more rapid bacterial growth, and the conditions
under which it is stored in many factories contribute to the ease with which fermentative changes
can go on in it. Often this by-product is stored in wooden cisterns or tanks, situated below
ground, where it becomes impossible to clean them out thoroughly. A custom that is almost universally
followed in the Swiss cheese factories, here in this country, as in Switzerland, is fully as
reprehensible as any dairy custom could well be. In Fig. 7 the arrangement in vogue for the
disposal of the whey is shown. The hot whey is run out through the trough from the factory
into the large trough that is placed over the row of barrels, as seen in the foreground. Each
patron thus has allotted to him in his individual barrel his portion of the whey, which he
is supposed to remove day by day. No attempt is made to clean out these receptacles, and the
inevitable result is that they become filled with a foul, malodorous liquid, especially in
summer. When such material is taken home in the same set of cans that is used to bring the
fresh milk (twice a day as is the usual custom in Swiss factories), it is no wonder that this
industry is seriously handicapped by "gassy" fermentations that injure materially the quality
of the product. Not only is the above danger a very considerable one, but the quality of the
factory by-product for feeding purposes, whether it is skim-milk or whey, is impaired through
the development of fermentative changes.

~Improved methods of disposal of by-products.~ The difficulties which attend the distribution
of these factory by-products have led to different methods of solution. One is to use another
separate set of receptacles to carry back these products to the farm. This method has been
tried, and while it is deemed impracticable by many to handle two sets of vessels, yet some
of the most progressive factories report excellent results where this method is in use.

Large barrels could be used for this purpose to economize in wagon space.

Another method that has met with wider acceptance, especially in creameries, is the custom
of pasteurizing or scalding the skim-milk immediately after it is separated, so that it is
returned to the farmer in a hot condition. In factories where the whole milk is pasteurized,
further treatment of the by-product is not necessary. In most factories steam, generally exhaust,
is used directly in the milk, and experience has shown that such milk, without any cooling,
will keep sweet for a considerable number of hours longer than the untreated product. It is
noteworthy that the most advanced and progressive factories are the ones that appreciate the
value of this work, and although it involves some time and expense, experience has shown the
utility of the process in that a better grade of milk is furnished by the patrons of factories
which follow this practice.[4] The exclusion of all danger of animal or human disease is also
possible in this way.

~Cleaning dairy utensils.~ The thorough cleaning of all dairy apparatus that in any way comes
in contact with the milk is one of the most fundamental and important problems in dairying.
All such apparatus should be so constructed as to permit of easy cleaning. Tinware, preferably
of the pressed variety, gives the best surface for this purpose and is best suited for the
handling of milk.

Milk vessels should never be allowed to become dry when dirty, for dried particles of milk
residue are extremely difficult to remove. In cleaning dairy utensils they should first be
rinsed in lukewarm instead of hot water, so as to remove organic matter without coagulating
the milk. Then wash thoroughly in hot water, using a good washing powder. The best washing
powders possess considerable disinfecting action.[5] Strong alkalies should not be used. After
washing rinse thoroughly in clean hot water. If steam is available, as it always is in creameries,
cans and pails should be turned over jet for a few moments. While a momentary exposure will
not suffice to completely sterilize such a vessel, yet many bacteria are killed in even a short
exposure, and the cans dry more thoroughly and quickly when heated by steam.

Not only should the greatest care be paid to the condition of the cans and milk-pails, but
all dippers, strainers, and other utensils that come in contact with the milk must be kept
equally clean. Cloth strainers, unless attended to, are objectionable, for the fine mesh of
the cloth retains so much moisture that they become a veritable hot-bed of bacterial life,
unless they are daily boiled or steamed.

The inability to thoroughly render vessels bacteria-free with the conveniences which are generally
to be found on the farm has led in some cases to the custom of washing and sterilizing the
milk cans at the factory.

~Germ content of milk utensils.~ Naturally the number of bacteria found in different milk utensils
after they have received their regular cleaning will be subject to great fluctuations; but,
nevertheless, such determinations are of value as giving a scientific foundation for practical
methods of improvement. The following studies may serve to indicate the relative importance
of the utensils as a factor in milk contamination.

Two cans were taken, one of which had been cleaned in the ordinary way, while the other was
sterilized by steaming. Before milking, the udder was thoroughly cleaned and special precautions
taken to avoid raising of dust; the fore milk was rejected. Milk drawn into these two cans
showed the following germ content:

                      No. bacteria       Hours before
                        per cc.           souring.

    Steamed pail          165              28-1/2
    Ordinary pail        4265              23

Harrison[6] has shown how great a variation is in the bacterial content in milk cans. The utensils
were rinsed with 100 cc. of sterile water and numerical determinations of this rinsing water
made. In poorly cleaned cans, the average germ content was 442,000; in cans washed in tepid
water and then scalded--the best farm practice--54,000, and in cans carefully washed and then
steamed for five minutes, 880.

Another method used by the writer is to wash the utensil with 100 cc. sterile wash water, using
a sterile swab to remove dirt. Then repeat the process twice or more with fresh rinsing waters,
making plate cultures from each. The following data were obtained from three such determinations:

No. bacteria in different washings.     Total No.
   I.           II.         III.        bacteria.
7,800,000    1,450,000     49,000       9,299,000
  283,000       43,400     35,000         361,400
1,685,000      105,000     61,400       1,851,400

~Infection of milk in udder cavity.~ A frequently neglected but considerable factor of infection
is that which is attributable to the bacteria which are present in the udder and which are
removed in large numbers during the milking process. An examination of the fore milk, i. e.,
the first few streams from each teat, and that which is subsequently withdrawn, generally reveals
a very much larger number of organisms in the fore milk.[7] Not infrequently will this part
of the milk when drawn under as careful conditions as possible, contain several score thousand
organisms per cc. If successive bacterial determinations are made at different periods of the
milking, as shown in the following experiment, a marked diminution is to be noted after the
first portion of the milk is removed:

    Bacterial content at different periods of milking.

                Fore     200th    2000th    4300th    6500th   Strippings.
                milk.     cc.      cc.       cc.       cc.
Expt. 1        6,500     1,700     475      220        75         5
Expt. 2        8,100     1,650     400      240        50        10

By some observers it has been claimed that it is possible to secure absolutely sterile milk
in the strippings but this is rarely so. It is quite probable that such reported results are
due to the fact that too small quantities of milk were used in the examinations and so erroneous
conclusions were drawn. This marked diminution in numbers indicates that the larger proportion
of the organisms found in the fore milk are present in the lower portion of the udder and milk
ducts. When consideration is given to the structure of the udder, it is readily apparent that
infection will be greater here than above.

The udder is composed of secreting tissue (gland cells) held in place by fibrous connective
tissue. Ramifying throughout this glandular structure are numerous channels (milk sinuses)
that serve to convey the milk from the cells where it is produced into the milk cistern, a
common receptacle just above the teats. This cavity is connected with the exterior through
the milk duct in the teat, which is more or less tightly closed by the circular sphincter muscles,
thus preventing the milk from flowing out. The mucous membranes of the milk duct and cistern
are naturally moist. The habits of the animal render it impossible to prevent infection of
the external opening at the end of the teat and there is no mechanical reason why bacteria
cannot readily find their way along the moist lining membrane for some distance. If organisms
are adapted to this kind of an environment, ideal conditions exist for their multiplication,
as moisture, warmth and suitable food supply are present. The question arises how far up into
this organ is penetration possible? Within late years numerous observations have been made
on the presence of organisms in the upper portion of the udder in contact with the secreting
tissue.[8]

These investigations prove that bacteria are distributed throughout the whole of the udder,
although numerically they are much less abundant in the region of the milk-secreting tissue
than in the lower portion. Ward's conclusions are "that milk when secreted by the glands of
a healthy udder is sterile. It may however, immediately become contaminated by the bacteria
which are normally present in the smaller milk ducts of the udder."

~Nature of bacteria in fore milk.~ Generally speaking the number of different species found
in the fore milk is not large, and of those which do appear many occur at only occasional intervals.
Moore[9] in the examination of 9 udders found 20 different forms, and of these only 3 species
predominated, all of which proved to be micrococci. Streptococci have also been quite frequently
reported. Freudenreich[10] found the most common types to be cocci, belonging to both the liquefying
and non-liquefying class.

Peptonizing[11] and spore-bearing[12] species have also been reported as well as gas-producing[13]
forms allied to the colon bacillus. Such findings are, however, due in all probability to accidental
invasion. Most investigators report the absence of the distinctively lactic-acid group of organisms.[14]

~Origin of bacteria in udder.~ There is no question but that many of the types of bacteria
found in the udder gain access from the outside. Those belonging to the spore-bearing, digesting
and intestinal types have such a favorable opportunity for introduction from outside and are
so unlikely to have come directly from the body of the animal, that the external source of
infection is much more probable. Whether this explanation answers the origin of the cocci that
are so generally found in the upper portion of the udder is questionable. The statement is
ordinarily made that the inner tissues of healthy organs are bacteria-free, but the studies
of Ford[15] seem to indicate that 70 per cent. of such organs, removed under aseptic conditions
from guinea pigs, rabbits, dogs and cats contained living organisms. Others have reported similar
results in which cocci have been found[16] very similar to those occurring in the udder. These
findings increase the probability that the origin of this type is from the blood. The persistence
of certain species in the udder for months as noted by Ward indicates possibility of growth
of some forms at least. Stocking[17] has shown where cows are not milked clean that the germ
content of succeeding milkings is greatly increased.

~Artificial introduction of bacteria into udder.~ If bacteria are capable of actually developing
in the udder proper, it ought to be possible to easily demonstrate this by the artificial introduction
of cultures. In a number of cases[18] such experiments have been made with various saprophytic
forms, such as B. prodigiosus, lactic acid bacilli and others. In no case has it appeared evident
that actual growth has occurred, although the introduced organism has been demonstrated in
diminishing numbers for 5-6 days. Even the common lactic acid germ and a yellow liquefying
coccus isolated from the fore milk failed to persist for more than a few days when thus artificially
introduced. This failure to colonize is indeed curious and needs explanation. Is it due to
unsuitable environmental conditions or attributable to the germicidal influence of the milk?

Various body fluids are known to possess the property of destroying bacteria and it is claimed
by Fokker[19] that this same property was found in freshly drawn milk. This peculiarity has
also been investigated by Freudenreich,[20] and Hunziker[21] who find a similar property.

No material increase in germ content takes place in milk for several hours when chilled to
40°-70° F.; on the other hand an actual, but usually not a marked decrease is observed for
about 6 hours. This phenomenon varies with the milk of different cows. Nothing is known as
to the cause of this apparent germicidal action. The question is yet by no means satisfactorily
settled, although the facts on which the hypothesis is based are not in controversy. If such
a peculiarity belongs to milk, it is not at all improbable that it may serve to keep down the
germ content in the udder. Freudenreich[22] found that udders which were not examined for some
time after death showed abundant growth, which fact he attributed to the loss of this germicidal
property.

The infection of the whole milk can be materially reduced by rejecting the fore milk, but it
is questionable whether such rejection is worth while, except in the case of "sanitary" dairies
where milk is produced with as low a germ content as possible. The intrinsic loss in butter
fat in the fore milk is inconsiderable as the first few streams contain only about one-fifth
the normal fat content.

~Infection of milk after withdrawal from animal.~ The germ content of the milk, when it is
being drawn from the animal is immediately increased upon contact with the atmosphere. These
organisms are derived from the surrounding air and the utensils in which the milk is received
and stored. The number of organisms which find their way into the milk depends largely upon
the character of the surroundings. Bacteria are so intimately associated with dirt, dust and
filth of all kinds that wherever the latter are found, the former are sure to be present in
abundance.

The most important factors in the infection of the milk after withdrawal are the pollution
which is directly traceable to the animal herself and the condition of the milk utensils. Fortunately
both of these sources of contamination are capable of being greatly minimized by more careful
methods of handling.

~Infection directly from the cow.~ It is a popular belief that the organisms found in milk
are derived from the feed and water which the cow consumes, the same passing directly from
the intestinal tract to the milk by the way of the blood circulation. Such a view has no foundation
in fact as bacteria absorbed into the circulation are practically all destroyed in the tissues
by the action of the body fluids and cells.[23] While organisms cannot pass readily from the
intestine to the udder, yet this must not be interpreted as indicating that no attention should
be given to the bacterial character of the material consumed. The water supply given should
be pure and wholesome and no decomposed or spoiled food should be used.

The infection traceable directly to the cow is modified materially by the conditions under
which the animal is kept and the character of the feed consumed. The nature of the fecal matter
is in part dependent upon the character of the food. The more nitrogenous rations with which
animals are now fed leads to the production of softer fecal discharges which is more likely
to soil the coat of the animal unless care is taken. The same is true with animals kept on
pasture in comparison with those fed dry fodder.

Stall-fed animals, however, are more likely to have their flanks fouled, unless special attention
is paid to the removal of the manure. All dairy stalls should be provided with a manure drop
which should be cleaned as frequently as circumstances will permit.

The animal herself contributes materially to the quota of germ life finding its way into the
milk through the dislodgment of dust and filth particles adhering to its hairy coat. The nature
of this coat is such as to favor the retention of these particles. Unless care is taken the
flanks and udder become polluted with fecal matter, which upon drying is displaced with every
movement of the animal. Every hair or dirt particle so dislodged and finding its way into the
milk-pail adds its quota of organisms to the liquid. This can be readily demonstrated by placing
cow's hairs collected with care on the moist surface of gelatin culture plates. Almost invariably,
bacteria will be found in considerable numbers adhering to such hairs as is indicated in Fig.
9. Dirt particles are even richer in germ life. Not only is there the dislodgment of hairs,
epithelial scales and masses of dirt and filth, but during the milking process, as at all other
times, every motion of the animal is accompanied by a shower of invisible particles more or
less teeming with bacterial life.

The amount of actual impurities found in milk is often considerable and when it is remembered
that about one-half of fresh manure dissolves in milk,[24] and thus does not appear as sediment,
the presence of this undissolved residue bespeaks filthy conditions as to milking. From actual
tests made, it is computed that the city of Berlin, Germany consumes about 300 pounds of such
dirt and filth daily. Renk has laid down the following rule with reference to this insoluble
dirt: If a sample of milk shows any evidence of impurity settling on a transparent bottom within
two hours, it should be regarded as too dirty for use.

While the number of organisms here introduced is at all times large, the character of the species
is of even greater import. Derived primarily from dirt and fecal matter, it is no wonder that
such forms are able to produce very undesirable fermentative changes.

~Influence of milker.~ The condition of the milker is not to be ignored in determining all
possible factors of infection, for when clothed in the dust-laden garments that have been worn
all day, a favorable opportunity for direct contamination is possible. The filthy practice
of wetting the hands with milk just before milking is to be condemned. The milker's hands should
be washed immediately before milking in clean water and dried. A pinch of vaseline on hands
is sometimes used to obtain a firmer grasp and prevents the ready dislodgment of scales.[25]
It must also be borne in mind that the milker may spread disease through the milk. In typhoid
fever and diphtheria, the germs often remain in the system for weeks and thus make infection
possible. Stocking[26] has shown that the individual milker exerts a potent influence on the
total germ content of milk, even where the procedure is quite the same. In sanitary dairies
milkers are usually clad in white duck suits.

~Milking by machinery.~ Several mechanical devices have been invented for milking, some of
which have been tested bacteriologically as to their efficiency. Harrison[27] has examined
the "Thistle" machine but found a much higher germ content than with hand-drawn milk. The recent
introduction of the Burrel-Lawrence-Kennedy machine has led to numerous tests in which very
satisfactory results have been obtained. If the rubber parts of the milker are thoroughly cleaned
and kept in lime water solution, they remain nearly sterile. When milk is properly handled,
the germ content may be greatly reduced.

~Reduction in dirt and adherent bacteria.~ No factor of contamination is so susceptible of
improvement as that which relates to the reduction in filth and dirt which gains access during
and immediately subsequent to the milking. The care which is taken to keep the coat of the
animal clean by grooming lessens very much the grosser portion of such contamination, but with
a dry, hairy coat, fine scales and dust particles must of necessity be dislodged.[28] Ordinarily
the patron thinks all evidence of such dirt is removed if the milk is strained, but this process
only lessens the difficulty; it does not overcome it. Various methods are in use, the effectiveness
of which is subject to considerable variation. Some of these look to the elimination of the
bacteria after they are once introduced into the milk; others to the prevention of infection
in the first place.

1. Straining the milk. Most of the visible, solid particles of filth, such as hairs, dirt particles,
etc., can be removed by simple straining, the time-honored process of purification. As ordinarily
carried out, this process often contributes to instead of diminishing the germ life in milk.
The strainer cloths unless washed and thoroughly sterilized by boiling harbor multitudes of
organisms from day to day and may thus actually add to the organisms present. Various methods
have been suggested for this simple process, but the most practical and efficient strainer
is that made of fine wire gauze to which is added 3-4 layers of cheese cloth, the whole to
set over the storage milk can.

2. Filtration. In Europe especially, the system of cleaning milk by filtration through sand,
gravel and other substances has been quite extensively used. These filters are built in sections
and the milk passes from below upward. The filtering substance is washed in hot water immediately
after use and then steamed and finally baked. While it is possible to remove the solid impurities
in this way, the germ content cannot be greatly reduced.[29] Cellulose filters have also been
suggested[30] as an improvement over the sand filters. Methods of filtration of this character
have not been used under commercial conditions here in this country.

3. Clarification in separator. Within recent years the custom has grown of clarifying milk
or removing the visible dirt by passing the milk through a centrifugal separator the cream
and skim milk being remixed after separation. This process naturally removes the solid impurities
as dirt, hairs, epithelial scales and cells, also some of the casein, making what is known
as centrifuge slime. This conglomerate mass is incomparably rich in germ life and the natural
inference would be that the bacterial content of the milk would be greatly reduced by this
procedure. Eckles and Barnes[31] noted a reduction of 37 to 56 per cent. of the bacteria but
others have failed to observe such reductions.[32] This condition is explained by the more
thorough breaking up of the bacterial masses in the process, thus apparently not reducing them
in numbers.

It is somewhat surprising that in spite of the elimination of much organic matter and bacteria,
such clarified milk sours as rapidly as the untreated product.[33]

The mechanical shock of separation ruptures the clusters of fat globules and so delays creaming
and also lessens the consistency of cream derived from such milk. This practical disadvantage
together with the increased expense of the operation and the failure to materially enhance
the keeping quality of the product outweigh the advantage which might come from removal of
solid impurities which can be largely accomplished on the farm by efficient straining.

4. Washing the udder. If a surface is moist, bacteria adherent to it cannot be dislodged by
ordinary movements. Thus the air over snow-covered mountains or oceans is relatively devoid
of germ life. The method of moistening the udder is applied with success to the hairy coat
of the animal thus subserving the double purpose of cleaning the animal and preventing in large
measure the continual dislodgment of dust particles. After these parts have been well carded
to remove loose hairs and dirt particles, the skin should be thoroughly moistened with clean
water and then wiped. It has been urged that this procedure lessens the yield of milk but Eckles[34]
concludes from experiments that when the animal becomes accustomed to this treatment, no noticeable
change in amount of milk or butter-fat is produced.

The effectiveness of this method in reducing the actual amount of dirt and filth introduced
into the milk as well as the great diminution in germ life is shown by the instructive experiments
of Fraser[35] who found that the actual amount of dirt dislodged from udders of apparently
clean animals during the milking process was three and one-half times as much as when the cow's
udders were washed. From udders visibly polluted one ounce of such filth was removed in 275
pounds of milk, while from cows whose udders had been washed, the same amount of dirt was distributed
through 24,030 pounds.

Fraser observed as a result of 420 examinations that the average germ content of 4-inch culture
dishes under clean but unwashed udders was 578, while under washed animals it was reduced to
192. From numerous tests made in the writer's laboratory, it is evident that the germ content
of the milk in the pail is increased from 20,000-40,000 bacteria per minute during the milking
period. By far the larger part of this pollution can be easily prevented by cleaning and dampening
the udder.

5. Diminishing exposed surface of pail. The entrance of organisms into the milk can be greatly
reduced by lessening the area of the milk pail directly exposed to the dust shower. A number
of so-called sanitary or hygienic milk pails have been devised for this purpose. In one case
the pail is smaller at the top than bottom, but in most of them the common form is kept and
the exposed area is lessened by means of a cover, the milk being received through a narrower
opening. In some cases, strainers are also interposed so as to remove more effectually the
coarse particles. It is necessary to have these covers and strainers constructed in such a
way so they can be easily removed and cleaned.

Stocking tested one of these pails (A, Fig. 10) and found that 63 per cent of the dirt and
29 per cent. of the bacteria were prevented from passing into the milk. Eckles examined one
in which the germ content was found to be 3200 per cc. as against 43200 per cc. in a common
open pail. This milk did not sour until it was 64 hours old in the first case while in the
latter it curdled in 43 hours.

~Air in barn.~ The atmosphere of the barn where the milking is done may frequently contribute
considerable infection. Germ life is incapable of development in the air, but in a dried condition,
organisms may retain their vitality for long periods. Anything which contributes to the production
of dust in the stable and aids in the stirring up of the same increases the number of organisms
to be found in the air (Fig. 11). Thus, the feeding of dry fodder and the bedding of animals
with straw adds greatly to the germ life floating in the air. Dust may vary much in its germ
content depending upon its origin. Fraser found the dust from corn meal to contain only about
one-sixth to one-eighth as much germ life as that from hay or bran.[36] In time most of these
dust particles settle to the floor, but where the herd is kept in the barn, the constant movement
of the animals keeps these particles more or less in motion. Much can be done by forethought
to lessen the germ content of stables. Feeding dry feed should not be done until after milking.[37]
In some of the better sanitary dairies, it is customary to have a special milking room that
is arranged with special reference to the elimination of all dust. In this way this source
of infection may be quite obviated as the air of a clean, still room is relatively free from
bacteria, especially if the floor is moistened. It has often been noted that the milk of stall-fed
animals does not keep as well as that milked out of doors, a condition in part attributable
to the lessened contamination.

~Relative importance of different sources of infection.~ It is impossible to measure accurately
the influence of the different sources of infection as these are continually subject to modification
in each and every case. As a general rule, however, where milk is drawn and handled without
any special care, the utensils and the animal contribute the larger proportion of dirt and
bacteria that find their way into milk. Where the manner of milking and handling is designed
to exclude the largest number of organisms possible, the bacteria appearing in the fore milk
make up the major portion remaining. By putting into practice the various suggestions that
have been made with reference to diminishing the bacterial content of milk, it is possible
to greatly reduce the number of organisms found therein, and at the same time materially improve
the keeping quality of the milk. Backhaus[38] estimates that the germ life in milk can be easily
reduced to one-two thousandth of its original number by using care in milking. He reports a
series of experiments covering two years in which milk was secured that averaged less than
10,000 bacteria per cc., while that secured under ordinary conditions averaged over 500,000.

Fig. 13 gives an illustration as to what care in milking will do in the way of eliminating
bacteria. Fig. 12 shows a gelatin plate seeded with the same quantity of milk that was used
in making the culture indicated by Fig. 13. The first plate was inoculated with milk drawn
under good conditions, the germ content of which was found to be 15,500 bacteria per cc., while
the sample secured under as nearly aseptic conditions as possible (Fig. 13) contained only
330 organisms in the same volume.

~"Sanitary" or "certified" milk.~ Within recent years there has been more or less generally
introduced into many cities, the custom of supplying high grade milk that has been handled
in a way so as to diminish its germ content as much as possible. Milk of this character is
frequently known as "sanitary," "hygienic" or "certified," the last term being used in connection
with a certification from veterinary authorities or boards of health as to the freedom of animals
from contagious disease. Frequently a numerical bacterial standard is exacted as a pre-requisite
to the recommendation of the board of examining physicians. Thus, the Pediatric Society of
Philadelphia requires all children's milk that receives its recommendation to have not more
than 10,000 bacteria per cc. Such a standard has its value in the scrupulous cleanliness that
must prevail in order to secure these results. This in itself is practically a guarantee of
the absence of those bacteria liable to produce trouble in children. The number of organisms
found in such milks is surprisingly low when compared with ordinary milk. Naturally, there
is considerable fluctuation from day to day, and occasionally the germ content is increased
to a high figure without any apparent reason. The average results though, show a greatly reduced
number of organisms. De Schweinitz[39] found in a Washington dairy in 113 examinations extending
throughout a year, an average of 6,485 bacteria per cc. The daily analyses made of the Walker-Gordon
supply sold in Philadelphia for an entire year, showed that the milk almost always contained
less than 5,000 bacteria per cc. and on 120 days out of the year the germ content was 1,000
organisms per cc. or less.

From a practical point of view, the improvement in quality of sanitary milk, in comparison
with the ordinary product is seen in the enhanced keeping quality. During the Paris Exposition
in 1900, milk and cream from several such dairies in the United States were shipped to Paris,
arriving in good condition after 15 to 18 days transit. When milk has been handled in such
a way, it is evident that it is much better suited to serve as a food supply than where it
has undergone the fermentative changes incident to the development of myriads of organisms.

~Application of foregoing precautions to all milk producers.~ Milk is so susceptible to bacterial
changes that it is necessary to protect it from invasion, if its original purity is to be maintained,
and yet, from a practical point of view, the use to which it is destined has much to do with
the care necessary to take in handling. The effect of the bacterial contamination of milk depends
largely upon the way in which the product is used. To the milk-man engaged in the distribution
of milk for direct consumption, all bacterial life is more or less of a detriment, while to
the butter-maker and cheese-maker some forms are a direct necessity. It is unnecessary and
impracticable to require the same degree of care in handling milk destined to be worked up
into factory products as is done, for instance, in sanitary milk supplies, but this fact should
not be interpreted to mean that the care of milk for factories is a matter of small consequence.
In fact no more important dairy problem exists, and the purer and better the quality of the
raw material the better the product will be. Particularly is this true with reference to cheese-making.

Dairymen have learned many lessons in the severe school of experience, but it is earnestly
to be hoped that future conditions will not be summed up in the words of the eminent German
dairy scientist, Prof. Fleischmann, when he says that "all the results of scientific investigation
which have found such great practical application in the treatment of disease, in disinfection,
and in the preservation of various products, are almost entirely ignored in milking."

~Growth of bacteria in milk.~ Milk is so well suited as a medium for the development of germ
life that it might be expected that all microörganisms would develop rapidly therein, and yet,
as a matter of fact, growth does not begin at once, even though the milk may be richly seeded.
At ordinary temperatures, such as 70° F., no appreciable increase is to be noted for a period
of 6-9 hours; at lower temperatures (54° F.) this period is prolonged to 30-40 hours or even
longer. After this period has elapsed, active growth begins and continues more or less rapidly
until after curdling.

The cause of this suspended development is attributed to the germicidal properties inherent
to the milk.[40]

Milk is of course seeded with a considerable variety of organisms at first. The liquefying
and inert species are the most abundant, the distinctively lactic acid class occurring sparsely,
if at all. As milk increases in age, germ growth begins to occur. More or less development
of all types go on, but soon the lactic species gain the ascendency, owing to their being better
suited to this environment; they soon outstrip all other species, with the result that normal
curdling generally supervenes. The growth of this type is largely conditioned by the presence
of the milk sugar. If the sugar is removed from milk by dialysis, the liquid undergoes putrefactive
changes due to the fact that the putrefactive bacteria are able to grow if no acid is produced.

~Relation of temperature to growth.~ When growth does once begin in milk, the temperature at
which it is stored exerts the most profound effect on the rate of development. When milk is
not artificially cooled, it retains its heat for some hours, and consequently the conditions
become very favorable for the rapid multiplication of the contained organisms, as is shown
in following results obtained by Freudenreich[41]:

    No. of bacteria per cc. in milk kept at different temperatures.

                                 77° F.       95° F.
     5 hrs. after milking       10,000        30,000
     8  "     "    "            25,000    12,000,000
    12  "     "    "            46,000    35,280,000
    26  "     "    "         5,700,000    50,000,000

Conn[42] is inclined to regard temperature of more significance in determining the keeping
quality than the original infection of the milk itself. Milk which curdled in 18 hours at 98°
F., did not curdle in 48 hours at 70°, and often did not change in two weeks, if the temperature
was kept at 50° F.

Where kept for a considerable period at this low temperature, the milk becomes filled with
bacteria of the undesirable putrefactive type, the lactic group being unable to form acid in
any appreciable amounts. Running well water can be used for cooling, if it is possible to secure
it at a temperature of 48°-50° F. The use of ice, of course, gives better results, and in summer
is greatly to be desired. The influence of these lowered temperatures makes it possible to
ship milk long distances[43] by rail for city supplies, if the temperature is kept low during
transit.

~Mixing night and morning milk.~ Not infrequently it happens when old milk is mixed with new,
that the course of the fermentative changes is more rapid than would have been the case if
the two milks had been kept apart. Thus, adding the cooled night milk to the warm morning milk
sometimes produces more rapid changes in both. The explanation for this often imperfectly understood
phenomenon is that germ growth may have gone on in the cooled milk, and when this material
is added to the warmer, but bacteria-poor, fresh milk, the temperature of the whole mass is
raised to a point suitable for the more rapid growth of all bacteria than would have occurred
if the older milk had been kept chilled.

~Number of bacteria in milk.~ The number of organisms found in milk depends upon (1) the original
amount of contamination, (2) the age of the milk, and (3) the temperature at which it has been
held. These factors all fluctuate greatly in different cases; consequently, the germ life is
subject to exceedingly wide variations. Here in America, milk reaches the consumer with less
bacteria than in Europe, although it may often be older. This is due largely to the more wide-spread
use of ice for chilling the milk en route to market. Examinations have been made of various
supplies with the following results: Sedgwick and Batchelder found in 57 tests of Boston milk
from 30,000-4,220,000 per cc. Jordan and Heineman found 30% of samples of Chicago milk to range
from 100,000 to 1,000,000 while nearly one half were from 1-20,000,000 per cc. The germ content
of city milks increase rapidly in the summer months. Park[44] found 250,000 organisms per cc.
in winter, about 1,000,000 in cool weather and 5,000,000 per cc. in hot summer weather. Knox
and Bassett in Baltimore report 1,500,000 in spring and nearly 4,500,000 in summer. Eckles[45]
studied milk under factory conditions. He finds from 1,000,000 to 5,000,000 per cc. in winter,
and in summer from 15-30 millions.

~Bacterial standards for city supplies.~ It would be very desirable to have a hygienic standard
for city milk supplies, as there is a butter fat and milk-solid test, but the wide spread variation
in germ content and the impracticability of utilizing ordinary bacterial determinations (on
account of time required) makes the selection of such a standard difficult. Some hold, as Park,
that such a standard is feasible. The New York City Milk commission has set a standard of 30,000
bacteria per cc. for their certified milk and 100,000 per cc. for inspected milk. Rochester,
N. Y. has attempted the enforcement of such a standard (limit, 100,000 per cc.) with good results
it is claimed while Boston has placed the legal limit at 500,000 per cc. Quantitative standards
would seem more applicable to "certified" or sanitary supplies than to general city supplies,
where the wide range in conditions lead to such enormous variations that the bacterial standard
seems too refined a method for practical routine inspection.

~Other tests.~ Any test to be of much service must be capable of being quickly applied. The
writer believes for city milk inspectors that the acid test would serve a very useful purpose.
This test measures the acidity of the milk. There is, of course, no close and direct relationship
between the development of acidity and the growth of bacteria, yet in a general way one follows
the other at normal temperatures. Where the temperature is kept rather low, bacterial growth
might go on without much acid development, but in the great majority of cases a high degree
of acidity means either old milk, in which there has been a long period of incubation, or high
temperature, where rapid bacterial growth has been possible. Either of these conditions encourages
germ growth and thus impairs the quality of the milk.

The rapid determination of acidity may be made in an approximate manner so as to serve as a
test at the weigh-can or intake. The test is best made by the use of the well known alkaline
tablet which is composed of a solid alkali, and the indicator, phenolphthalein. The tablets
are dissolved in water, one to each ounce used. A number of white cups are filled with the
proper quantity of the solution necessary to neutralize say, 0.2 per cent. lactic acid. Then,
as the milk is delivered, the proper quantity is taken from each can to which is added the
tablet solution. A retention of the pink color shows that there is not sufficient acid in the
milk to neutralize the alkali used; a disappearance of color indicates an excess of acid. The
standard selected is of course arbitrarily chosen. In our experience, 0.2 per cent. acidity
(figured as lactic), has proven a satisfactory point. With carefully handled milk the acidity
ought to be reduced to about 0.15 per cent. The acidity of the milk may be abnormally reduced
if milk is kept in rusty cans, owing to action of acid on the metal.

~Kinds of bacteria in milk.~ The number of bacteria in milk is not of so much consequence as
the kinds present. With reference to the number of different species, the more dirt and foreign
matter the milk contains, the larger the number of varieties found in the same. While milk
may contain forms that are injurious to man, still the great majority of them have no apparent
effect on human health. In their effect on milk, the case is much different. Depending upon
their action in milk, they may be grouped into three classes:

1. Inert group, those producing no visible change in the milk.

2. Sour milk forms, those breaking up the milk sugar with or without the formation of gas.

3. Digesting or peptonizing group, those capable of rendering the casein of milk soluble and
more or less completely digested.

A surprisingly large number of bacteria that are found in milk belong to the first class. Undoubtedly
they affect the chemical characteristics of the milk somewhat, but not to the extent that it
becomes physically perceptible. Eckles[46] reports in a creamery supply from 20 to 55 per cent.
of entire flora as included in this class.

By far the most important group is that embraced under the second head. It includes not only
the true lactic acid types in which no gas is formed, but those species capable of producing
gases and various kinds of acids. These organisms are the distinctively milk bacteria, although
they do not predominate when the milk is first drawn. Their adaptation to this medium is normally
shown, however, by this extremely rapid growth, in which they soon gain the ascendency over
all other species present. It is to this lactic acid class that the favorable flavor-producing
organisms belong which are concerned in butter-making. They are also indispensable in cheese-making.

The third class represents those capable of producing a liquefied or digested condition on
gelatin or in milk. They are usually the spore-bearing species which gain access from filth
and dirt. Their high powers of resistance due to spores makes it difficult to eradicate this
type, although they are materially held in subjection by the lactic bacteria. The number of
different kinds that have been found in milk is quite considerable, something over 200 species
having been described more or less thoroughly. In all probability, however, many of these forms
will be found to be identical when they are subjected to a more critical study.

~Direct absorption of taints.~ A tainted condition in milk may result from the development
of bacteria, acting upon various constituents of the milk, and transforming these in such a
way as to produce by-products that impair the flavor or appearance of the liquid; or it may
be produced by the milk being brought in contact with any odoriferous or aromatic substance,
under conditions that permit of the direct absorption of such odors.

This latter class of taints is entirely independent of bacterial action, and is largely attributable
to the physical property which milk possesses of being able to absorb volatile odors, the fat
in particular, having a great affinity for many of these substances. This direct absorption
may occur before the milk is withdrawn from the animal, or afterwards if exposed to strong odors.

It is not uncommon for the milk of animals advanced in lactation to have a more or less strongly
marked odor and taste; sometimes this is apt to be bitter, at other times salty to the taste.
It is a defect that is peculiar to individual animals and is liable to recur at approximately
the same period in lactation.

The peculiar "cowy" or "animal odor" of fresh milk is an inherent peculiarity that is due to
the direct absorption of volatile elements from the animal herself. This condition is very
much exaggerated when the animal consumes strong-flavored substances as garlic, leeks, turnips
and cabbage. The volatile substances that give to these vegetables their characteristic odor
are quickly diffused through the system, and if such foods are consumed some few hours before
milking, the odor in the milk will be most pronounced. The intensity of such taints is diminished
greatly and often wholly disappears, if the milking is not done for some hours (8-12) after
such foods are consumed.

This same principle applies in lesser degree to many green fodders that are more suitable as
feed for animals, as silage, green rye, rape, etc. Not infrequently, such fodders as these
produce so strong a taint in milk as to render it useless for human use. Troubles from such
sources could be entirely obviated by feeding limited quantities of such material immediately
after milking. Under such conditions the taint produced is usually eliminated before the next
milking. The milk of swill-fed cows is said to possess a peculiar taste, and the urine of animals
fed on this food is said to be abnormally acid. Brewers' grains and distillery slops when fed
in excess also induce a similar condition in the milk.

Milk may also acquire other than volatile substances directly from the animal, as in cases
where drugs, as belladonna, castor oil, sulfur, turpentine, jalap, croton oil, and many others
have been used as medicine. Such mineral poisons as arsenic have been known to appear eight
hours after ingestion, and persist for a period of three weeks before being eliminated.

~Absorption of odors after milking.~ If milk is brought in contact with strong odors after
being drawn from the animal, it will absorb them readily, as in the barn, where frequently
it is exposed to the odor of manure and other fermenting organic matter.

It has long been a popular belief that milk evolves odors and cannot absorb them so long as
it is warmer than the surrounding air, but from experimental evidence, the writer[47] has definitely
shown that the direct absorption of odors takes place much more rapidly when the milk is warm
than when cold, although under either condition, it absorbs volatile substances with considerable
avidity. In this test fresh milk was exposed to an atmosphere impregnated with odors of various
essential oils and other odor-bearing substances. Under these conditions, the cooler milk was
tainted very much less than the milk at body temperature even where the period of exposure
was brief. It is therefore evident that an exposure in the cow barn where the volatile emanations
from the animals themselves and their excreta taint the air will often result in the absorption
of these odors by the milk to such an extent as to seriously affect the flavor.

The custom of straining the milk in the barn has long been deprecated as inconsistent with
proper dairy practice, and in the light of the above experiments, an additional reason is evident
why this should not be done.

Even after milk is thoroughly cooled, it may absorb odors as seen where the same is stored
in a refrigerator with certain fruits, meats, fish, etc.

~Distinguishing bacterial from non-bacterial taints.~ In perfectly fresh milk, it is relatively
easy to distinguish between taints caused by the growth of bacteria and those attributable
to direct absorption.

If the taint is evident at time of milking, it is in all probability due to character of feed
consumed, or possibly to medicines. If, however, the intensity of the taint grows more pronounced
as the milk becomes older, then it is probably due to living organisms, which require a certain
period of incubation before their fermentative properties are most evident.

Moreover, if the difficulty is of bacterial origin, it can be frequently transferred to another
lot of milk (heated or sterilized is preferable) by inoculating same with some of the original
milk. Not all abnormal fermentations are able though to compete with the lactic acid bacteria,
and hence outbreaks of this sort soon die out by the re-establishment of more normal conditions.

~Treatment of directly absorbed taints.~ Much can be done to overcome taints of this nature
by exercising greater care in regard to the feed of animals, and especially as to the time
of feeding and milking. But with milk already tainted, it is often possible to materially improve
its condition. Thorough aeration has been frequently recommended, but most satisfactory results
have been obtained where a combined process of aeration and pasteurization was resorted to.
Where the milk is used in making butter, the difficulty has been successfully met by washing
the cream with twice its volume of hot water in which a little saltpeter has been dissolved
(one teaspoonful per gallon), and then separating it again.[48]

The treatment of abnormal conditions due to bacteria has been given already under the respective
sources of infection, and is also still further amplified in following chapter.

~Aeration.~ It is a common belief that aeration is of great aid in improving the quality of
milk, yet, when closely studied, no material improvement can be determined, either where the
milk is made into butter or sold as milk. Dean in Canada and Storch in Denmark have both experimented
on the influence of aeration in butter making, but with negative results. Marshall and Doane
failed to observe any material improvement in keeping quality, but it is true that odors are
eliminated from the milk during aeration. The infection of the milk during aeration often more
than counterbalances the reputed advantage. Especially is this so if the aeration is carried
out in an atmosphere that is not perfectly clean and pure.

In practice aeration differs greatly. In some cases, air is forced into the milk; in others,
the milk is allowed to distribute itself in a thin sheet over a broad surface and fall some
distance so that it is brought intimately in contact with the air. This latter process is certainly
much more effective if carried out under conditions which preclude infection. It must be remembered
that aeration is frequently combined with cooling, in which case the reputed advantages may
not be entirely attributable to the process of aeration.

~Infection of milk in the factory.~ The problem of proper handling of milk is not entirely
solved when the milk is delivered to the factory or creamery, although it might be said that
the danger of infection is much greater while the milk is on the farm.

In the factory, infection can be minimized because effective measures of cleanliness can be
more easily applied. Steam is available in most cases, so that all vats, cans, churns and pails
can be thoroughly scalded. Special emphasis should be given to the matter of cleaning pumps
and pipes. The difficulty of keeping these utensils clean often leads to neglect and subsequent
infection. In Swiss cheese factories, the custom of using home-made rennet solutions is responsible
for considerable factory infection. Natural rennets are soaked in whey which is kept warm in
order to extract the rennet ferment. This solution when used for curdling the milk often adds
undesirable yeasts and other gas-generating organisms, which are later the cause of abnormal
ferment action in the cheese (See page 186).

The influence of the air on the germ content of the milk is, as a rule, overestimated. If the
air is quiet, and free from dust, the amount of germ life in the same is not relatively large.
In a creamery or factory, infection from this source ought to be much reduced, for the reason
that the floors and wall are, as a rule, quite damp, and hence germ life cannot easily be dislodged.
The majority of organisms found under such conditions come from the person of the operators
and attendants. Any infection can easily be prevented by having the ripening cream-vats covered
with a canvas cloth. The clothing of the operator should be different from the ordinary wearing-apparel.
If made of white duck, the presence of dirt is more quickly recognized, and greater care will
therefore be taken than if ordinary clothes are worn.

The surroundings of the factory have much to do with the danger of germ infection. Many factories
are poorly constructed and the drainage is poor, so that filth and slime collect about and
especially under the factory. The emanations from these give the peculiar "factory odor" that
indicates fermenting matter. Not only are these odors absorbed directly, but germ life from
the same is apt to find its way into the milk. Connell[49] has recently reported a serious
defect in cheese that was traced to germ infection from defective factory drains.

The water supply of a factory is also a question of prime importance. When taken from a shallow
well, especially if surface drainage from the factory is possible, the water may be contaminated
to such an extent as to introduce undesirable bacteria in such numbers that the normal course
of fermentation may be changed. The quality of the water, aside from flavor, can be best determined
by making a curd test (p. 76) which is done by adding some of the water to boiled milk and
incubating the same. If "gassy" fermentations occur, it signifies an abnormal condition. In
deep wells, pumped as thoroughly as is generally the case with factory wells, the germ content
should be very low, ranging from a few score to a few hundred bacteria per cc. at most.

Harrison[50] has recently traced an off-flavor in cheese in a Canadian factory to an infection
arising from the water-supply. He found the same germ in both water and cheese and by inoculating
a culture into pasteurized milk succeeded in producing the undesirable flavor. The danger from
ice is much less, for the reason that good dairy practice does not sanction using ice directly
in contact with milk or cream. Then, too, ice is largely purified in the process of freezing,
although if secured from a polluted source, reliance should not be placed in the method of
purification; for even freezing does not destroy all vegetating bacteria.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Olson. 24 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat., 1907.

[2] Erf and Melick Bull. 131, Kan. Expt. Stat., Apr. 1905.

[3] Storch (40 Rept. Danish Expt. Stat., Copenhagen, 1898) has devised a test whereby it can
be determined whether this treatment has been carried out or not: Milk contains a soluble enzym
known as galactase which has the property of decomposing hydrogen peroxid. If milk is heated
to 176° F. (80° C.) or above, this enzym is destroyed so that the above reaction no longer
takes place. If potassium iodid and starch are added to unheated milk and the same treated
with hydrogen peroxid, the decomposition of the latter agent releases oxygen which acts on
the potassium salt, which in turn gives off free iodine that turns the starch blue.

[4] McKay, N. Y. Prod. Rev., Mch. 22, 1899.

[5] Doane, Bull. 79, Md. Expt. Stat., Jan. 1902.

[6] Harrison, 22 Rept. Ont. Agr'l Coll., 1896, p. 113.

[7] Moore and Ward, Bull. 158, Cornell Expt. Stat., Jan. 1899; Ward, Bull. 178, Cornell Expt.
Stat., Jan. 1900.

[8] Harrison, 22 Rept. Ont. Agr. Coll., 1896, p. 108; Moore, 12 Rept. Bur. Animal Ind., U.
S. Dept. Ag., 1895-6, p. 261.

[9] Moore, Bacteria in Milk, N. Y. Dept. Ag., 1902.

[10] Freudenreich, Cent. f. Bakt., II Abt., 10: 418, 1903.

[12] Marshall, Bull. 147, Mich. Expt. Stat., p. 42.

[14] Burr, R. H. Cent. f. Bakt., II Abt., 8: 236, 1902. Freudenreich, l. c. p. 418. Ward, Bull.
178, Cornell Expt. Stat., p. 277. Bolley (Cent. f. Bakt., II Abt., 1: 795, 1895), in 30 experiments
found 12 out of 16 species to belong to lactic class. Harrison (Trans. Can. Inst., 7: 474,
1902-3) records the lactic type as most commonly present.

[15] Ford, Journ. of Hyg., 1901, 1: 277.

[16] Freudenreich, l. c. p. 421.

[17] Stocking, Bull. 42, Storrs Expt. Stat., June, 1906.

[18] Dinwiddie, Bull, 45 Ark. Expt. Stat., p. 57. Ward, Journ. Appld. Mic. 1: 205, 1898. Appel,
Milch Zeit., No. 17, 1900. Harrison and Cumming, Journ. Appld. Mic. 5: 2087. Russell and Hastings,
21 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat., 158, 1904.

[19] Fokker, Zeit. f. Hyg., 9: 41, 1890.

[20] Freudenreich, Ann. de Microg., 3: 118, 1891.

[21] Hunziker, Bull. 197, Cornell Expt. Stat., Dec. 1901.

[22] Freudenreich, Cent. f. Bakt., II Abt., 10: 417, 1903.

[23] This general statement is in the main correct, although Ford (Journ. of Hyg., 1: 277,
1901) claims to have found organisms sparingly present in healthy tissues.

[24] Backhaus, Milch Zeit., 26: 357, 1897.

[25] Freudenreich, Die Bakteriologie, p. 30.

[27] Harrison, Cent. f. Bakt., II Abt., 5: 183, 1899.

[28] Drysdale, Trans. High. and Agr. Soc. Scotland. 5 Series, 10: 166, 1898.

[29] Schuppan, (Cent. f. Bakt., 13: 155, 1893) claims to have found a reduction of 48 per cent.
in the Copenhagen filters while in the more extended work of Dunbar and Kister (Milch Zeit.,
pp. 753, 787, 1899) the bacterial content was higher in the filtered milk in 17 cases out of 22.

[30] Backhaus and Cronheim, Journ. f. Landw., 45: 222, 1897.

[31] Eckles and Barnes, Bull. 159 Iowa Expt. Stat., Aug. 1901.

[32] Dunbar and Kister, Milch Zeit., p. 753, 1899. Harrison and Streit, Trans. Can. Inst.,
7: 488, 1902-3.

[33] Doane, Bull. 88 Md. Expt. Stat., May 1903.

[34] Eckles, Hoard's Dairyman, July 8, 1898.

[35] Fraser, Bull. 91, Ill. Expt. Stat.

[36] Fraser, Bull. 91, Ill. Expt. Stat., Dec. 1903.

[38] Backhaus. Ber. Landw. Inst. Univ. Königsberg 2: 12, 1897.

[39] De Schweinitz, Nat. Med. Rev., April, 1899.

[40] Conn, Proc. Soc. Amer. Bacteriologists, 1902.

[41] Freudenreich, Ann. de Microg., 2:115, 1890.

[42] Conn, Bull. 26, Storrs Expt. Stat.

[43] New York City is supplied with milk that is shipped 350 miles.

[44] Park, N. Y. Univ. Bull., 1: 85, 1901.

[45] Eckles, Bull. 59, Iowa Expt. Stat., Aug. 1901.

[47] Russell, 15 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat. 1898, p. 104.

[48] Alvord, Circ. No. 9, U. S. Dept. Agric. (Div. of Bot.).

[49] Connell, Rept. of Commissioner of Agr., Canada, 1897, part XVI, p. 15.

[50] Harrison, Hoard's Dairyman, March 4, 1898.

CHAPTER IV.

FERMENTATIONS IN MILK AND THEIR TREATMENT.

Under the conditions in which milk is drawn, it is practically impossible to secure the same
without bacterial contamination. The result of the introduction of these organisms often changes
its character materially as most bacteria cause the production of more or less pronounced fermentative
processes. Under normal conditions, milk sours, i. e., develops lactic acid, but at times this
more common fermentation may be replaced by other changes which are marked by the production
of some other more or less undesirable flavor, odor or change in appearance.

In referring to these changes, it is usually customary to designate them after the most prominent
by-product formed, but it must be kept in mind that generally some other decomposition products
are usually produced. Whether the organisms producing this or that series of changes prevail
or not depends upon the initial seeding, and the conditions under which the milk is kept. Ordinarily,
the lactic acid organisms grow so luxuriantly in the milk that they overpower all competitors
and so determine the nature of the fermentation; but occasionally the milk becomes infected
with other types of bacteria in relatively large numbers and the conditions may be especially
suitable to the development of these forms, thereby modifying the course of the normal changes
that occur.

The kinds of bacteria that find it possible to develop in milk may be included under two heads:

1. Those which cause no appreciable change in the milk, either in taste, odor or appearance.
While these are frequently designated as the inert bacteria, it must not be supposed that they
have absolutely no effect on milk. It is probably true in most cases that slight changes of
a chemical nature are produced, but the nature of the changes do not permit of ready recognition.

2. This class embraces all those organisms which, as a result of their growth, are capable
of producing evident changes. These transformations may be such as to affect the taste, as
in the sour milk or in the bitter fermentations, or the odor, as in some of the fetid changes,
or the appearance of the milk, as in the slimy and color changes later described.

~Souring of milk.~ Ordinarily if milk is allowed to stand for several days at ordinary temperatures
it turns sour. This is due to the formation of lactic acid, which is produced by the decomposition
of the milk-sugar. While this change is well nigh universal, it does not occur without a pre-existing
cause, and that is the presence of certain living bacterial forms. These organisms develop
in milk with great rapidity, and the decomposition changes that are noted in souring are due
to the by-products of their development.

The milk-sugar undergoes fermentation, the chief product being lactic acid, although various
other by-products, as other organic acids (acetic, formic and succinic), different alcohols
and gaseous products, as CO{2}, H, N and methane (CH{4}) are produced in small amounts.

In this fermentation, the acidity begins to be evident to the taste when it reaches about 0.3
per cent., calculated as lactic acid. As the formation of acid goes on, the casein is precipitated
and incipient curdling or lobbering of the milk occurs. This begins to be apparent when the
acidity is about 0.4 per cent., but the curd becomes more solid with increasing acidity. The
rapidity of curdling is also dependent upon the temperature of the milk. Thus milk which at
ordinary temperatures might remain fluid often curdles when heated. The growth of the bacteria
is continued until about 0.8 to 1.0 per cent. acid is formed, although the maximum amount fluctuates
considerably with different lactic acid species. Further formation then ceases even though
all of the milk-sugar is not used up, because of the inability of the lactic bacteria to continue
their growth in such acid solutions.

As this acidity is really in the milk serum, cream never develops so much acid as milk, because
a larger proportion of its volume is made up of butter-fat globules. This fact must be considered
in the ripening of cream in butter-making where the per cent. of fat is subject to wide fluctuations.

The formation of lactic acid is a characteristic that is possessed by a large number of bacteria,
micrococci as well as bacilli being numerously represented. Still the preponderance of evidence
is in favor of the view that a few types are responsible for most of these changes. The most
common type found in spontaneously soured milk changes the milk-sugar into lactic acid without
the production of any gas. This type has been described by various workers on European as well
as American milks, and is designated by Conn as the Bact. lactis acidi type.[51] It is subject
to considerable variation under different conditions.

Curiously enough if milk which has been drawn with special care is examined immediately after
milking, the lactic organisms are not usually found. They are incapable of development in the
udder itself, as shown by injections into the milk cistern. They abound, however, on hay, in
dust, in the barn air, on the hairy coat of the animal, and from these sources easily gain
access to the milk. In this medium they find an exceptionally favorable environment and soon
begin a very rapid growth, so that by the time milk is consumed, either in the form of milk
or milk products, they make up numerically the larger portion of the bacteria present.

Another widely disseminated, although numerically less prevalent, type is B. lactis aerogenes.
This type forms gas in milk so that the soured milk is torn by the presence of gas bubbles.
It also grows more luxuriantly in contact with the air.

Other types occur more or less sporadically, some of which are capable of liquefying the casein
of milk while at the same time they also develop lactic acid. Conn and Aikman refer to the
fact that over one hundred species capable of producing variable quantities of lactic acid
are already known. It is fair to presume, however, that a careful comparative study of these
would show that simply racial differences exist in many cases, and therefore, that they are
not distinct species.

As a group these bacteria are characterized by their inability to liquefy gelatin or develop
spores. On account of this latter characteristic they are easily destroyed when milk is pasteurized.
They live under aerobic or anaerobic conditions, many of them being able to grow in either
environment, although, according to McDonnell,[52] they are more virulent when air is not excluded.

While growth of these lactic forms may go on in milk throughout a relatively wide range in
temperature, appreciable quantities of acid are not produced except very slowly at temperatures
below 50° F.[53]

From the standpoint of frequency the most common abnormal changes that occur in milk are those
in which gases of varying character are developed in connection with acids, from the milk sugar.
Other volatile products imparting bad flavors usually accompany gas production. These fermentations
are of most serious import in the cheese industry, as they are especially prone to develop
in the manufacture of milk into certain types of cheese. Not often is their development so
rapid that they appear in the milk while it is yet in the hands of the milk producer, but almost
invariably the introduction of the causal organisms takes place while the milk is on the farm.
Numerous varieties of bacteria possess this property of producing gas (H and CO{2} are most
common although N and methane (CH{4}) are sometimes produced). The more common forms are those
represented by B. lactis aerogenes and the common fecal type, B. coli commune. The ordinary
habitat of this type is dirt and intestinal filth. Hence careless methods of milk handling
invite this type of abnormal change in milk.

It is a wide-spread belief that thunder storms cause milk to sour prematurely, but this idea
has no scientific foundation. Experiments[54] with the electric spark, ozone and loud detonations
show no effect on acid development, but the atmospheric conditions usually incident to a thunder
storm are such as permit of a more rapid growth of organisms. There is no reason to believe
but that the phenomenon of souring is wholly related to the development of bacteria. Sterile
milks are never affected by the action of electric storms.

~"Gassy" milks.~ Where these gas bacteria abound, the amount of lactic acid is generally reduced,
due to the splitting up of some of the sugar into gaseous products. This type of germ life
does not seem to be able to develop well in the presence of the typical lactic acid non gas-forming
bacteria.

~"Sweet curdling" and digesting fermentations.~ Not infrequently milk, instead of undergoing
spontaneous souring, curdles in a weakly acid or neutral condition, in which state it is said
to have undergone "sweet curdling." The coagulation of the milk is caused by the action of
enzyms of a rennet type that are formed by the growth of various species of bacteria. Later
the whey separates more or less perfectly from the curd, producing a "wheyed off" condition.
Generally the coagulum in these cases is soft and somewhat slimy. The curd usually diminishes
in bulk, due to the gradual digestion or peptonization of the casein by proteid-dissolving
enzyms (tryptic type) that are also produced by the bacteria causing the change.

A large number of bacteria possess the property of affecting milk in this way. So far as known
they are able to liquefy gelatin (also a peptonizing process) and form spores. The Tyrothrix
type of bacteria (so named by Duclaux on account of the supposed relation to cheese ripening)
belongs to this class. The hay and potato forms are also digesters. Organisms of this type
are generally associated with filth and manure, and find their way into the milk from the accumulations
on the coat of the animal.

Conn[55] has separated the rennet enzym from bacterial cultures in a relatively pure condition,
while Fermi[56] has isolated the digestive ferment from several species.

Duclaux[57] has given to this digesting enzym the name casease or cheese ferment. These isolated
ferments when added to fresh milk possess the power of causing the characteristic curdling
and subsequent digestion quite independent of cell development. The quantity of ferment produced
by different species differs materially in some cases. In these digestive fermentations, the
chemical transformations are profound, the complex proteid molecule being broken down into
albumoses, peptones, amido-acids (tyrosin and leucin) and ammonia as well as fatty acids.

Not infrequently these fermentations gain the ascendency over the normal souring change, but
under ordinary conditions they are held in abeyance, although this type of bacteria is always
present to some extent in milk. When the lactic acid bacteria are destroyed, as in boiled,
sterilized or pasteurized milk, these rennet-producing, digesting species develop.

~Butyric acid fermentations.~ The formation of butyric acid in milk which may be recognized
by the "rancid butter" odor is not infrequently seen in old, sour milk, and for a long time
was thought to be a continuation of the lactic fermentation, but it is now believed that these
organisms find more favorable conditions for growth, not so much on account of the lactic acid
formed as in the absence of dissolved oxygen in the milk which is consumed by the sour-milk
organisms.

Most of the butyric class of bacteria are spore-bearing, and hence they are frequently present
in boiled or sterilized milk. The by-products formed in this series of changes are quite numerous.
In most cases, butyric acid is prominent, but in addition to this, other organic acids, as
lactic, succinic, and acetic, are produced, likewise different alcohols. Concerning the chemical
origin of butyric acid there is yet some doubt. Duclaux[58] affirms that the fat, sugar and
casein are all decomposed by various forms. In some cases, the reaction of the milk is alkaline,
with other species it may be neutral or acid. This type of fermentation has not received the
study it deserves.

In milk these organisms are not of great importance, as this fermentation does not readily
gain the ascendency over the lactic bacteria.

~Ropy or slimy milk.~ The viscosity of milk is often markedly increased over that which it
normally possesses. The intensity of this abnormal condition may vary much; in some cases the
milk becoming viscous or slimy; in others stringing out into long threads, several feet in
length, as in Fig. 17. Two sets of conditions are responsible for these ropy or slimy milks.
The most common is where the milk is clotted or stringy when drawn, as in some forms of garget.
This is generally due to the presence of viscid pus, and is often accompanied by a bloody discharge,
such a condition representing an inflamed state of the udder. Ropiness of this character is
not usually communicable from one lot of milk to another.

The communicable form of ropy milk only appears after the milk has been drawn from the udder
for a day or so, and is caused by the development of various species of bacteria which find
their way into the milk after it is drawn. These defects are liable to occur at any season
of the year. Their presence in a dairy is a source of much trouble, as the unsightly appearance
of the milk precludes its use as food, although there is no evidence that these ropy fermentations
are dangerous to health.

There are undoubtedly a number of different species of bacteria that are capable of producing
these viscid changes,[59] but it is quite probable that they are not of equal importance in
infecting milk under natural conditions.

In the majority of cases studied in this country,[60] the causal organism seems to be B. lactis
viscosus, a form first found by Adametz in surface waters.[61] This organism possesses the
property of developing at low temperatures (45°-50° F.), and consequently it is often able
in winter to supplant the lactic-acid forms. Ward has found this germ repeatedly in water tanks
where milk cans are cooled; and under these conditions it is easy to see how infection of the
milk might occur. Marshall[62] reports an outbreak which he traced to an external infection
of the udder; in another case, the slime-forming organism was abundant in the barn dust. A
defect of this character is often perpetuated in a dairy for some time, and may therefore become
exceedingly troublesome. In one instance in the writer's experience, a milk dealer lost over
$150 a month for several months from ropy cream. Failure to properly sterilize cans, and particularly
strainer cloths, is frequently responsible for a continuance of trouble of this sort.

The slimy substance formed in milk comes from various constituents of the milk, and the chemical
character of the slime produced also varies with different germs. In some cases the slimy material
is merely the swollen outer cell membrane of the bacteria themselves as in the case of B. lactis
viscosus; in others it is due to the decomposition of the proteids, but often the chief decomposition
product appears to come from a viscous fermentation of the milk-sugar.

An interesting case of a fermentation of this class being utilized in dairying is seen in the
use of "lange wei" (long or stringy whey) which is employed as a starter in Holland to control
the gassy fermentations in Edam cheese. This slimy change is due to the growth of Streptococcus
Hollandicus.[63]

~Alcoholic fermentations.~ Although glucose or cane-sugar solutions are extremely prone to
undergo alcoholic fermentation, milk sugar does not readily undergo this change. Where such
changes are produced it is due to yeasts. Several outbreaks attributable to such a cause have
been reported.[64] Russell and Hastings[65] have found these milk-sugar splitting yeasts particularly
abundant in regions where Swiss cheese is made, a condition made possible by the use of whey-soaked
rennets in making such cheese.

Kephir and Koumiss are liquors much used in the Orient which are made from milk that has undergone
alcoholic fermentation. Koumiss was originally made from mare's milk but is now often made
from cows' milk by adding cane sugar and yeast. In addition to the CO{2} developed, alcohol,
lactic acid, and casein-dissolving ferments are formed. Kephir is made by adding to milk Kephir
grains, which are a mass of yeast and bacterial cells. The yeasts produce alcohol and CO{2}
while the bacteria change the casein of milk, rendering it more digestible. These beverages
are frequently recommended to persons who seem to be unable to digest raw milk readily. The
exact nature of the changes produced are not yet well understood.[66]

~Bitter milk.~ The presence of bitter substances in milk may be ascribed to a variety of causes.
A number of plants, such as lupines, ragweed and chicory, possess the property of affecting
milk when the same are consumed by animals. At certain stages in lactation, a bitter salty
taste is occasionally to be noted that is peculiar to individual animals.

A considerable number of cases of bitter milk have, however, been traced to bacterial origin.
For a number of years the bitter fermentation of milk was thought to be associated with the
butyric fermentation, but Weigmann[67] showed that the two conditions were not dependent upon
each other. He found that the organism which produced the bitter taste acted upon the casein.

Conn[68] observed a coccus form in bitter cream that was able to impart a bitter flavor to
milk. Sometimes a bitter condition does not develop in the milk, but may appear later in the
milk products, as in the case of a micrococcus which Freudenreich[69] found in cheese.

Harrison[70] has traced a common bitter condition in Canadian milk to a milk-sugar splitting
yeast, Torula amara which not only grows rapidly in milk but produces an undesirable bitterness
in cheddar cheese.

Cream ripened at low temperatures not infrequently develops a bitter flavor, showing that the
optimum temperature for this type of fermentation is below the typical lactic acid change.

Milk that has been heated often develops a bitter condition. The explanation of this is that
the bacteria producing the bitter substances usually possess endospores, and that while the
boiling or sterilizing of milk easily kills the lactic acid germs, these forms on account of
their greater resisting powers are not destroyed by the heat.

~Soapy milk:~ A soapy flavor in milk was traced by Weigmann and Zirn[71] to a specific bacillus,
B. lactis saponacei, that they found gained access to the milk in one case from the bedding
and in another instance from hay. A similar outbreak has been reported in this country,[72]
due to a germ acting on the casein and albumen.

~Red milk.~ The most common trouble of this nature in milk is due to presence of blood, which
is most frequently caused by some wound in the udder. The ingestion of certain plants as sedges
and scouring rushes is also said to cause a bloody condition; madders impart a reddish tinge
due to coloring matter absorbed. Defects of this class can be readily distinguished from those
due to germ growth because they are apparent at time of milking. Where blood is actually present,
the corpuscles settle out in a short time if left undisturbed.

There are a number of chromogenic or color-producing bacteria that are able to grow in milk,
but their action is so slow that generally they are not of much consequence. Moreover their
development is usually confined to the surface of the milk as it stands in a vessel. The most
important is the well-known B. prodigiosus. Another form found at times in milk possessing
low acidity[73] is B. lactis erythrogenes. This species only develops the red color in the
dark. In the light, it forms a yellow pigment. Various other organisms have been reported at
different times.[74]

~Blue milk.~ Blue milk has been known for many years, its communicable nature being established
as long ago as 1838. It appears on the surface of milk first as isolated particles of bluish
or grey color, which later become confluent, the blue color increasing in intensity as the
acidity increases. The causal organism, B. cyanogenes, is very resistant toward drying,[75]
thus accounting for its persistence. In Mecklenberg an outbreak of this sort once continued
for several years. It has frequently been observed in Europe in the past, but is not now so
often reported. Occasional outbreaks have been reported in this country.

~Other kinds of colored milk.~ Two or three chromogenic forms producing still other colors
have occasionally been found in milk. Adametz[76] discovered in a sample of cooked milk a peculiar
form (Bacillus synxanthus) that produced a citron-yellow appearance which precipitated and
finally rendered soluble the casein. Adametz, Conn, and List have described other species that
confer tints of yellow on milk. Some of these are bright lemon, others orange, and some amber
in color.

Still other color-producing bacteria, such as those that produce violet or green changes in
the milk, have been observed. In fact, almost any of the chromogenic bacteria are able to produce
their color changes in milk as it is such an excellent food medium. Under ordinary conditions,
these do not gain access to milk in sufficient numbers so that they modify the appearance of
it except in occasional instances.

~Treatment of abnormal fermentations.~ If the taint is recognized as of bacterial origin (see
p. 57) and is found in the mixed milk of the herd, it is necessary to ascertain, first, whether
it is a general trouble, or restricted to one or more animals. This can sometimes be done by
separating the milk of the different cows and noting whether any abnormal condition develops
in the respective samples.

~Fermentation tests.~ The most satisfactory way to detect the presence of the taints more often
present is to make a fermentation test of one kind or another. These tests are most frequently
used at the factory, to enable the maker to detect the presence of milk that is likely to prove
unfit for use, especially in cheese making. They are based upon the principle that if milk
is held at a moderately high temperature, the bacteria will develop rapidly. A number of different
methods have been devised for this purpose. In Walther's lacto-fermentator samples of milk
are simply allowed to stand in bottles or glass jars until they sour. They are examined at
intervals of several hours. If the curdled milk is homogeneous and has a pure acid smell, the
milk is regarded as all right. If it floats in a turbid serum, is full of gas or ragged holes,
it is abnormal. As generally carried out, no attempt is made to have these vessels sterile.
Gerber's test is a similar test that has been extensively employed in Switzerland. Sometimes
a few drops of rennet are added to the milk so as to curdle the same, and thus permit of the
more ready detection of the gas that is evolved.

~Wisconsin curd test.~ The method of testing milk described below was devised at the Wisconsin
Experiment Station in 1895 by Babcock, Russell and Decker.[77] It was used first in connection
with experimental work on the influence of gas-generating bacteria in cheese making, but its
applicability to the detection of all taints in milk produced by bacteria makes it a valuable
test for abnormal fermentations in general.

In the curd test a small pat of curd is made in a glass jar from each sample of milk. These
tests may be made in any receptacle that has been cleaned in boiling water, and to keep the
temperature more nearly uniform these jars should be immersed in warm water, as in a wash tub
or some other receptacle. When the milk is about 95° F., about ten drops of rennet extract
are added to each sample and mixed thoroughly with the milk. The jars should then remain undisturbed
until the milk is completely curdled; then the curd is cut into small pieces with a case knife
and stirred to expel the whey. The whey should be poured off at frequent intervals until the
curd mats. If the sample be kept at blood heat (98° F.) for six to eight hours, it will be
ready to examine.

More convenient types of this test than the improvised apparatus just alluded to have been
devised by different dairy manufacturers. Generally, they consist of a special bottle having
a full-sized top, thus permitting the easy removal of the curd. The one shown in Fig. 18 is
provided with a sieve of such construction that the bottles will drain thoroughly if inclined
in an inverted position.

~Interpretation of results of test.~ The curd from a good milk has a firm, solid texture, and
should contain at most only a few small pin holes. It may have some large, irregular, "mechanical"
holes where the curd particles have failed to cement, as is seen in Fig. 19. If gas-producing
bacteria are very prevalent in the milk, the conditions under which the test is made cause
such a rapid growth of the same that the evidence of the abnormal fermentation may be readily
seen in the spongy texture of the curd (Fig. 20). If the undesirable organisms are not very
abundant and the conditions not especially suited to their growth, the "pin holes" will be
less frequent.

Sometimes the curds show no evidence of gas, but their abnormal condition can be recognized
by the "mushy" texture and the presence of "off" flavors that are rendered more apparent by
keeping them in closed bottles. This condition is abnormal and is apt to produce quite as serious
results as if gas was formed.

~Overcoming taints by use of starters.~ Another method of combatting abnormal fermentations
that is often fruitful, is that which rests upon the inability of one kind of bacteria to grow
in the same medium in competition with certain other species.

Some of the undesirable taints in factories can be controlled in large part by the introduction
of starters made from certain organisms that are able to obtain the ascendency over the taint-producing
germ. Such a method is commonly followed when a lactic ferment, either a commercial pure culture,
or a home-made starter, is added to milk to overcome the effect of gas-generating bacteria.

A similar illustration is seen in the case of the "lange wei" (slimy whey), that is used in
the manufacture of Edam cheese to control the character of the fermentation of the milk.

This same method is sometimes applied in dealing with certain abnormal fermentations that are
apt to occur on the farm. It is particularly useful with those tainted milks known as "sweet
curdling." The ferment organisms concerned in this change are unable to develop in the presence
of lactic acid bacteria, so the addition of a clean sour milk as a starter restores the normal
conditions by giving the ordinary milk bacteria the ascendency.

~Chemical disinfection.~ In exceptional instances it may be necessary to employ chemical disinfectants
to restore the normal conditions. Of course with such diseases as tuberculosis, very stringent
measures are required, as they are such a direct menace to human life, but with these abnormal
or taint-producing fermentations, care and cleanliness, well directed, will usually overcome
the trouble.

If it becomes necessary to employ chemical substances as disinfecting agents, their use should
always be preceded by a thorough cleansing with hot water so that the germicide may come in
direct contact with the surface to be disinfected.

It must be borne in mind that many chemicals act as deodorants, i.e., destroy the offensive
odor, without destroying the cause of the trouble.

Sulfur is often recommended as a disinfecting agent, but its use should be carefully controlled,
otherwise the vapors have but little germicidal power. The common practice of burning a small
quantity in a room or any closed space for a few moments has little or no effect upon germ
life. The effect of sulfur vapor (SO{2}) alone upon germ life is relatively slight, but if
this gas is produced in the presence of moisture, sulfurous acid (H{2}SO{3}) is formed, which
is much more efficient. To use this agent effectively, it must be burned in large quantities
in a moist atmosphere (three lbs. to every 1,000 cubic feet of space), for at least twelve
hours. After this operation, the space should be thoroughly aired.

Formalin, a watery solution of a gas known as formaldehyde, is a new disinfectant that recent
experience has demonstrated to be very useful. It may be used as a gas where rooms are to be
disinfected, or applied as a liquid where desired. It is much more powerful in its action than
sulfur, and it has a great advantage over mercury and other strong disinfectants, as it is
not so poisonous to man as it is to the lower forms of life.

Bleaching powder or chloride of lime is often recommended where a chemical can be advantageously
used. This substance is a good disinfectant as well as a deodorant, and if applied as a wash,
in the proportion of four to six ounces of the powder to one gallon of water, it will destroy
most forms of life. In many cases this agent is inapplicable on account of its odor.

Corrosive sublimate (HgCl{2}) for most purposes is a good disinfectant, but it is such an intense
poison that its use is dangerous in places that are at all accessible to stock.

For the disinfection of walls in stables and barns, common thin white wash Ca(OH){2} is admirably
adapted if made from freshly-burned quick lime. It possesses strong germicidal powers, increases
the amount of light in the barn, is a good absorbent of odors, and is exceedingly cheap.

Carbolic acid, creosote, and such products, while excellent disinfectants, cannot well be used
on account of their odor, especially in factories.

For gutters, drains, and waste pipes in factories, vitriol salts (sulfates of copper, iron
and zinc) are sometimes used. These are deodorants as well as disinfectants, and are not so
objectionable to use on account of their odor.

These suggestions as to the use of chemicals, however, only apply to extreme cases and should
not be brought into requisition until a thorough application of hot water, soap, a little soda,
and the scrubbing brush have failed to do their work.

FOOTNOTES:

[51] Günther and Thierfelder, Arch. f. Hyg., 25:164, 1895; Leichmann, Cent. f. Bakt., 2:281,
1896; Esten, 9 Rept. Storrs Expt. Stat., p. 44, 1896; Dinwiddie, Bull. 45, Ark. Expt. Stat.,
May, 1897; Kozai, Zeit. f. Hyg., 38:386, 1901; Weigmann, Hyg. Milk Congress, Hamburg, 1903, p. 375.

[52] McDonnell, Inaug. Diss., Kiel. 1899, p. 39.

[53] Kayser, Cent. f. Bakt. II. Abt. 1:436.

[54] Treadwell, Science, 1894, 17:178.

[55] Conn, 5 Rept. Storrs Expt. Stat., 1892, p. 396.

[56] Fermi, Arch. f. Hyg., 1892, 14:1.

[57] Duclaux, Le Lait, p. 121.

[58] Duclaux, Principes de Laiterie, p. 67.

[59] Guillebeau (Milch Zeit., 1892, p. 808) has studied over a dozen different forms that possess
this property.

[60] Ward, Bull. 165, Cornell Expt. Stat., Mch., 1899; also Bull. 195, Ibid., Nov., 1901.

[61] Adametz, Landw. Jahr., 1891, p. 185.

[62] Marshall, Mich. Expt. Stat., Bull. 140.

[63] Milch Zeit., 1899, p. 982.

[64] Duclaux, Principes de Laiterie, p. 60. Heinze and Cohn, Zeit. f. Hyg., 46: 286, 1904.

[65] Bull. 128, Wis. Expt. Stat., Sept. 1905.

[66] Freudenreich, Landw. Jahr. d. Schweiz, 1896, 10; 1.

[67] Weigmann, Milch Zeit., 1890, p. 881.

[68] Conn, 3 Rept. Storrs Expt. Stat., 1890, p. 158.

[69] Freudenreich, Fühl. Landw. Ztg. 43: 361.

[70] Harrison, Bull. 120 Ont. Agr'l. Coll., May, 1902.

[71] Milch Zeit. 22:569.

[72] Marshall, Bull. 146, Mich. Expt. Stat., p. 16.

[73] Grotenfelt, Milch Zeit., 1889, p. 263.

[74] Menge, Cent. f. Bakt., 6:596; Keferstein, Cent. f. Bakt., 21:177.

[75] Heim, Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesundheitsamte, 5:578.

[76] Adametz, Milch Zeit., 1890, p. 225.

[77] 12 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat., 1895, p. 148; also Bull. 67, Ibid., June, 1898.

CHAPTER V.

RELATION OF DISEASE-BACTERIA TO MILK.

Practical experience with epidemic disease has abundantly demonstrated the fact that milk not
infrequently serves as a vehicle for the dissemination of contagion. Attention has been prominently
called to this relation by Ernest Hart,[78] who in 1880 compiled statistical evidence showing
the numerous outbreaks of various contagious diseases that had been associated with milk infection
up to that time. Since then, further compilations have been made by Freeman,[79] and also by
Busey and Kober,[80] who have collected the data with reference to outbreaks from 1880 to 1899.

These statistics indicate the relative importance of milk as a factor in the dissemination
of disease.

The danger from this source is much intensified for the reason that milk, generally speaking,
is consumed in a raw state; and also because a considerable number of disease-producing bacteria
are able, not merely to exist, but actually thrive and grow in milk, even though the normal
milk bacteria are also present. Moreover the recognition of the presence of such pathogenic
forms is complicated by the fact that often they do not alter the appearance of the milk sufficiently
so that their presence can be detected by a physical examination. These facts which have been
experimentally determined, coupled with the numerous clinical cases on record, make a strong
case against milk serving as an agent in the dissemination of disease.

~Origin of pathogenic bacteria in milk.~ Disease-producing bacteria may be grouped with reference
to their relation toward milk into two classes, depending upon the manner in which infection
occurs:

Class I. Disease-producing bacteria capable of being transmitted directly from a diseased animal
to man through the medium of infected milk.

Class II. Bacteria pathogenic for man but not for cattle which are capable of thriving in milk
after it is drawn from the animal.

In the first group the disease produced by the specific organism must be common to both cattle
and man. The organism must live a parasitic life in the animal, developing in the udder, and
so infect the milk supply. It may, of course, happen that diseases toward which domestic animals
alone are susceptible may be spread from one animal to another in this way without affecting
human beings.

In the second group, the bacterial species lives a saprophytic existence, growing in milk,
if it happens to find its way therein. In such cases milk indirectly serves as an agent in
the dissemination of disease, by giving conditions favorable to the growth of the disease germ.

By far the most important of diseases that may be transmitted directly from animal to man through
a diseased milk supply is tuberculosis, but in addition to this, foot and mouth disease (aphthous
fever in children), anthrax and acute enteric troubles have also been traced to a similar source
of infection.

The most important specific diseases that have been disseminated through subsequent pollution
of the milk are typhoid fever, diphtheria, scarlet fever and cholera, but, of course, the possibility
exists that any disease germ capable of living and thriving in milk may be spread in this way.
In addition to these diseases that are caused by the introduction of specific organisms (the
causal organism of scarlet fever has not yet been definitely determined), there are a large
number of more or less illy-defined troubles of an intestinal character that occur especially
in infants and young children that are undoubtedly attributable to the activity of microörganisms
that gain access to milk during and subsequent to the milking, and which produce changes in
milk before or after its ingestion that result in the formation of toxic products.

DISEASES TRANSMISSIBLE FROM ANIMAL TO MAN THROUGH DISEASED MILK.

~Tuberculosis.~ In view of the wide-spread distribution of this disease in both the human and
the bovine race, the relation of the same to milk supplies is a question of great importance.
It is now generally admitted that the different types of tubercular disease found in different
kinds of animals and man are attributable to the development of the same organism, Bacillus
tuberculosis, although there are varieties of this organism found in different species of animals
that are sufficiently distinct to permit of recognition.

The question of prime importance is, whether the bovine type is transmissible to the human
or not. Artificial inoculation of cattle with tuberculous human sputum as well as pure cultures
of this variety show that the human type is able to make but slight headway in cattle. This
would indicate that the danger of cattle acquiring the infection from man would in all probability
be very slight, but these experiments offer no answer as to the possibility of transmission
from the bovine to the human. Manifestly it is impossible to solve this problem by direct experiment
upon man except by artificial inoculation, but comparative experiments upon animals throw some
light on the question.

Theo. Smith[81] and others[82] have made parallel experiments with animals such as guinea pigs,
rabbits and pigeons, inoculated with both bovine and human cultures of this organism. The results
obtained in the case of all animals tested show that the virulence of the two types was much
different, but that the bovine cultures were much more severe. While of course this does not
prove that transmission from bovine to human is possible, still the importance of the fact
must not be overlooked.

In a number of cases record of accidental infection from cattle to man has been noted.[83]
These have occurred with persons engaged in making post-mortem examinations on tuberculous
animals, and the tubercular nature of the wound was proven in some cases by excision and inoculation.

In addition to data of this sort that is practically experimental in character, there are also
strong clinical reasons for considering that infection of human beings may occur through the
medium of milk. Naturally such infection should produce intestinal tuberculosis, and it is
noteworthy that this phase of the disease is quite common in children especially between the
ages of two and five.[84] It is difficult to determine, though, whether primary infection occurred
through the intestine, for, usually, other organs also become involved. In a considerable number
of cases in which tubercular infection by the most common channel, inhalation, seems to be
excluded, the evidence is strong that the disease was contracted through the medium of the
milk, but it is always very difficult to exclude the possibility of pulmonary infection.

Tuberculosis as a bovine disease has increased rapidly during recent decades throughout many
portions of the world. This has been most marked in dairy regions. Its extremely insidious
nature does not permit of an early recognition by physical means, and it was not until the
introduction of the tuberculin test[85] in 1892, as a diagnostic aid that accurate knowledge
of its distribution was possible. The quite general introduction of this test in many regions
has revealed an alarmingly large percentage of animals as affected. In Denmark in 1894 over
forty per cent were diagnosed as tubercular. In some parts of Germany almost as bad a condition
has been revealed. Slaughter-house statistics also show that the disease has increased rapidly
since 1890. In this country the disease on the average is much less than in Europe and is also
very irregularly distributed. In herds where it gained a foothold some years ago, often the
majority of animals are frequently infected; many herds, in fact the great majority, are wholly
free from all taint. The disease has undoubtedly been most frequently introduced through the
purchase of apparently healthy but incipiently affected animals. Consequently in the older
dairy regions where stock has been improved the most by breeding, more of the disease exists
than among the western and southern cattle.

~Infectiousness of milk of reacting animals.~ Where the disease appears in the udder the milk
almost invariably contains the tubercle organism. Under such conditions the appearance of the
milk is not materially altered at first, but as the disease progresses the percentage of fat
generally diminishes, and at times in the more advanced stages where the physical condition
of the udder is changed (Fig. 21), the milk may become "watery"; but the percentage of animals
showing such udder lesions is not large, usually not more than a few per cent. (4 per cent.
according to Ostertag.)

On the other hand, in the earlier phases of the disease, where its presence has been recognized
solely by the aid of the tuberculin test, before there are any recognizable physical symptoms
in any part of the animal, the milk is generally unaffected. Between these extremes, however,
is found a large proportion of cases, concerning which so definite data are not available.
The results of investigators on this point are conflicting and further information is much
desired. Some have asserted so long as the udder itself shows no lesions that no tubercle bacilli
would be present,[86] but the findings of a considerable number of investigators[87] indicate
that even when the udder is apparently not diseased the milk may contain the specific organism
as revealed by inoculation experiments upon animals. In some cases, however, it has been demonstrated
by post-mortem examination that discoverable udder lesions existed that were not recognizable
before autopsy was made. In the experimental evidence collected, a varying percentage of reacting
animals were found that gave positive results; and this number was generally sufficient to
indicate that the danger of using milk from reacting animals was considerable, even though
apparently no disease could be found in the udder.

The infectiousness of milk can also be proven by the frequent contraction of the disease in
other animals, such as calves and pigs which may be fed on the skim milk. The very rapid increase
of the disease among the swine of Germany and Denmark,[88] and the frequently reported cases
of intestinal infection of young stock also attest the presence of the organism in milk.

The tubercle bacillus is so markedly parasitic in its habits, that, under ordinary conditions,
it is incapable of growing at normal air temperatures. There is, therefore, no danger of the
germ developing in milk after it is drawn from the animal, unless the same is kept at practically
blood heat.

Even though the milk of some reacting animals may not contain the dangerous organism at the
time of making the test, it is quite impossible to foretell how long it will remain free. As
the disease becomes more generalized, or if tuberculous lesions should develop in the udder,
the milk may pass from a healthy to an infectious state.

This fact makes it advisable to exclude from milk supplies intended for human use, all milk
of animals that respond to the tuberculin test; or at least to treat it in a manner so as to
render it safe. Whether it is necessary to do this or not if the milk is made into butter or
cheese is a somewhat different question. Exclusion or treatment is rendered more imperative
in milk supplies, because the danger is greater with children with whom milk is often a prominent
constituent of their diet, and also for the reason that the child is more susceptible to intestinal
infection than the adult.

The danger of infection is much lessened in butter or cheese, because the processes of manufacture
tend to diminish the number of organisms originally present in the milk, and inasmuch as no
growth can ordinarily take place in these products the danger is minimized. Moreover, the fact
that these foods are consumed by the individual in smaller amounts than is generally the case
where milk is used, and also to a greater extent by adults, lessens still further the danger
of infection.

Notwithstanding this, numerous observers[89] especially in Germany have succeeded in finding
the tubercle bacillus in market butter, but this fact is not so surprising when it is remembered
that a very large fraction of their cattle show the presence of the disease as indicated by
the tuberculin test, a condition that does not obtain in any large section in this country.

The observations on the presence of the tubercle bacillus in butter have been questioned somewhat
of late[2] by the determination of the fact that butter may contain an organism that possesses
the property of being stained in the same way as the tubercle organism. Differentiation between
the two forms is rendered more difficult by the fact that this tubercle-like organism is also
capable of producing in animals lesions that stimulate those of tuberculosis, although a careful
examination reveals definite differences. Petri[90] has recently determined that both the true
tubercle and the acid-resisting butter organism may be readily found in market butter.

In the various milk products it has been experimentally determined that the true tubercle bacillus
is able to retain its vitality in butter for a number of months and in cheese for nearly a year.

~Treatment of milk from tuberculosis cows.~ While it has been shown that it is practically
impossible to foretell whether the milk of any reacting animal actually contains tubercle bacilli
or not, still the interests of public health demand that no milk from such stock be used for
human food until it has been rendered safe by some satisfactory treatment.

1. Heating. By far the best treatment that can be given such milk is to heat it. The temperature
at which this should be done depends upon the thermal death point of the tubercle bacillus,
a question concerning which there has been considerable difference of opinion until very recently.
According to the work of some of the earlier investigators, the tubercle bacillus in its vegetative
stage is endowed with powers of resistance greater than those possessed by any other pathogenic
organism. This work has not been substantiated by the most recent investigations on this subject.
In determining the thermal death point of this organism, as of any other, not only must the
temperature be considered, but the period of exposure as well, and where that exposure is made
in milk, another factor must be considered, viz., the presence of conditions permitting of
the formation of a "scalded layer," for as Smith[91] first pointed out, the resistance of the
tubercle organism toward heat is greatly increased under these conditions. If tuberculous milk
is heated in a closed receptacle where this scalded membrane cannot be produced, the tubercle
bacillus is killed at 140° F. in 15 to 20 minutes. These results which were first determined
by Smith, under laboratory conditions, and confirmed by Russell and Hastings,[92] where tuberculous
milk was heated in commercial pasteurizers, have also been verified by Hesse.[93] A great practical
advantage which accrues from the treatment of milk at 140° F. is that the natural creaming
is practically unaffected. Of course, where a higher temperature is employed, the period of
exposure may be materially lessened. If milk is momentarily heated to 176° F., it is certainly
sufficient to destroy the tubercle bacillus. This is the plan practiced in Denmark where all
skim milk and whey must be heated to this temperature before it can be taken back to the farm,
a plan which is designed to prevent the dissemination of tuberculosis and foot and mouth disease
by means of the mixed creamery by-products. This course renders it possible to utilize with
perfect safety, for milk supplies, the milk of herds reacting to the tuberculin test, and as
butter of the best quality can be made from cream or milk heated to even high temperatures,[94]
it thus becomes possible to prevent with slight expense what would otherwise entail a large loss.

2. Dilution. Another method that has been suggested for the treatment of this suspected milk
is dilution with a relatively large volume of perfectly healthy milk. It is a well known fact
that to produce infection, it requires the simultaneous introduction of a number of organisms,
and in the case of tuberculosis, especially that produced by ingestion, this number is thought
to be considerable. Gebhardt[95] found that the milk of tuberculous cows, which was virulent
when injected by itself into animals, was innocuous when diluted with 40 to 100 times its volume
of healthy milk. This fact is hardly to be relied upon in practice, unless the proportion of
reacting to healthy cows is positively known.

It has also been claimed in the centrifugal separation of cream from milk[96] that by far the
larger number of tubercle bacilli were thrown out with the separator slime. Moore[97] has shown
that the tubercle bacilli in an artificially infected milk might be reduced in this way, so
as to be no longer microscopically demonstrable, yet the purification was not complete enough
to prevent the infection of animals inoculated with the milk.

Another way to exclude all possibility of tubercular infection in milk supplies is to reject
all milk from reacting animals. This method is often followed where pasteurization or sterilization
is not desired. In dairies where the keeping quality is dependent upon the exclusion of bacteria
by stringent conditions as to milking and handling ("sanitary" or "hygienic" milk), the tuberculin
test is frequently used as a basis to insure healthy milk.

~Foot and mouth disease.~ The wide-spread extension of this disease throughout Europe in recent
years has given abundant opportunity to show that while it is distinctively an animal malady,
it is also transmissible to man, although the disease is rarely fatal. The causal organism
has not been determined with certainty, but it has been shown that the milk of affected animals
possesses infectious properties[98] although appearing unchanged in earlier phases of the disease.

Hertwig showed the direct transmissibility of the disease to man by experiments made on himself
and others. By ingesting milk from an affected animal, he was able to produce the symptoms
of the disease, the mucous membrane of the mouth being covered with the small vesicles that
characterize the malady. It has also been shown that the virus of the disease may be conveyed
in butter.[99] This disease is practically unknown in this country, although widely spread
in Europe.

There are a number of other bovine diseases such as anthrax,[100] lockjaw,[101] and hydrophobia[102]
in which it has been shown that the virus of the disease is at times to be found in the milk
supply, but often the milk becomes visibly affected, so that the danger of using the same is
greatly minimized.

There are also a number of inflammatory udder troubles known as garget or mammitis. In most
of these, the physical appearance of the milk is so changed, and often pus is present to such
a degree as to give a very disagreeable appearance to the milk. Pus-forming bacteria (staphylococci
and streptococci) are to be found associated with such troubles. A number of cases of gastric
and intestinal catarrh have been reported as caused by such milks.[103]

DISEASES TRANSMISSIBLE TO MAN THROUGH INFECTION OF MILK AFTER WITHDRAWAL.

Milk is so well adapted to the development of bacteria in general, that it is not surprising
to find it a suitable medium for the growth of many pathogenic species even at ordinary temperatures.
Not infrequently, disease-producing bacteria are able to grow in raw milk in competition with
the normal milk bacteria, so that even a slight contamination may suffice to produce infection.

The diseases that are most frequently disseminated in this way are typhoid fever, diphtheria,
scarlet fever and cholera, together with the various illy-defined intestinal troubles of a
toxic character that occur in children, especially under the name of cholera infantum, summer
complaint, etc.

Diseases of this class are not derived directly from animals because cattle are not susceptible
to the same.

~Modes of infection.~ In a variety of ways, however, the milk may be subject to contaminating
influences after it is drawn from the animal, and so give opportunity for the development of
disease-producing bacteria. The more important methods of infection are as follows:

1. Infection directly from a pre-existing case of disease on premises. Quite frequently a person
in the early stage of a diseased condition may continue at his usual vocation as helper in
the barn or dairy, and so give opportunity for direct infection to occur. In the so-called
cases of "walking typhoid," this danger is emphasized. It is noteworthy in typhoid fever that
the bacilli frequently persist in the urine and in diphtheria they often remain in the throat
until after convalescence. In some cases infection has been traced to storage of the milk in
rooms in the house where it became polluted directly by the emanations of the patient.[104]
Among the dwellings of the lower classes where a single room has to be used in common this
source of infection has been most frequently observed.

2. Infection through the medium of another person. Not infrequently another individual may
serve in the capacity of nurse or attendant to a sick person, and also assist in the handling
of the milk, either in milking the animals or caring for the milk after it has been drawn.
Busey and Kober report twenty-one outbreaks of typhoid fever in which dairy employees also
acted in the capacity of nurses.

3. Pollution of milk utensils. The most frequent method of infection of cans, pails, etc.,
is in cleaning them with water that may be polluted with disease organisms. Often wells may
be contaminated with diseased matter of intestinal origin, as in typhoid fever, and the use
of water at normal temperatures, or even in a lukewarm condition, give conditions permitting
of infection. Intentional adulteration of milk with water inadvertently taken from polluted
sources has caused quite a number of typhoid outbreaks.[105] Sedgwick and Chapin[106] found
in the Springfield, Mass., epidemic of typhoid that the milk cans were placed in a well to
cool the milk, and it was subsequently shown that the well was polluted with typhoid fecal matter.

4. Pollution of udder of animal by wading in infected water, or by washing same with contaminated
water. This method of infection would only be likely to occur in case of typhoid. An outbreak
at the University of Virginia in 1893[107] was ascribed to the latter cause.

5. Pollution of creamery by-products, skim-milk, etc. Where the milk supply of one patron becomes
infected with pathogenic bacteria, it is possible that disease may be disseminated through
the medium of the creamery, the infective agent remaining in the skim milk after separation
and so polluting the mixed supply. This condition is more likely to prevail with typhoid because
of the greater tolerance of this organism for acids such as would be found in raw milk. The
outbreaks at Brandon,[108] England, in 1893, Castle Island,[109] Ireland, and Marlboro,[110]
Mass., in 1894, were traced to such an origin.

While most outbreaks of disease associated with a polluted milk supply originate in the use
of the milk itself, yet infected milk may serve to cause disease even when used in other ways.
Several outbreaks of typhoid fever have been traced to the use of ice cream where there were
strong reasons for believing that the milk used in the manufacture of the product was polluted.[111]
Hankin[112] details a case of an Indian confection made largely from milk that caused a typhoid
outbreak in a British regiment.

Although the evidence that milk may not infrequently serve as an agent in spreading disease
is conclusive enough to satisfactorily prove the proposition, yet it should be borne in mind
that the organism of any specific disease in question has rarely ever been found. The reasons
for this are quite the same as those that govern the situation in the case of polluted waters,
except that the difficulties of the problem are much greater in the case of milk than with
water. The inability to readily separate the typhoid germ, for instance, from the colon bacillus,
an organism frequently found in milk, presents technical difficulties not easily overcome.
The most potent reason of failure to find disease bacteria is the fact that infection in any
case must occur sometime previous to the appearance of the outbreak. Not only is there the
usual period of incubation, but it rarely happens that an outbreak is investigated until a
number of cases have occurred. In this interim the original cause of infection may have ceased
to be operative.

~Typhoid fever.~ With reference to the diseases likely to to be disseminated through the medium
of milk, infected after being drawn from the animal, typhoid fever is the most important. The
reason for this is due (1) to the wide spread distribution of the disease; (2) to the fact
that the typhoid bacillus is one that is capable of withstanding considerable amounts of acid,
and consequently finds even in raw milk containing the normal lactic acid bacteria conditions
favorable for its growth.[113] Ability to grow under these conditions can be shown not only
experimentally, but there is abundant clinical evidence that even a slight infection often
causes extensive outbreaks, as in the Stamford, Conn., outbreak in 1895 where 386 cases developed
in a few weeks, 97 per cent. of which occurred on the route of one milk-man. In this case the
milk cans were thoroughly and properly cleaned, but were rinsed out with cold water from a
shallow well that was found to be polluted.

The most common mode of pollution of milk with typhoid organisms is where the milk utensils
are infected in one way or another.[114] Second in importance is the carrying of infection
by persons serving in the dual capacity of nurse and dairy attendant.

~Cholera.~ This germ does not find milk so favorable a nutrient medium as the typhoid organism,
because it is much more sensitive toward the action of acids. Kitasato[115] found, however,
that it could live in raw milk from one to four days, depending upon the amount of acid present.
In boiled or sterilized milk it grows more freely, as the acid-producing forms are thereby
eliminated. In butter it dies out in a few days (4 to 5).

On account of the above relation not a large number of cholera outbreaks have been traced to
milk, but Simpson[116] records a very striking case in India where a number of sailors, upon
reaching port, secured a quantity of milk. Of the crew which consumed this, every one was taken
ill, and four out of ten died, while those who did not partake escaped without any disease.
It was later shown that the milk was adulterated with water taken from an open pool in a cholera
infected district.

~Diphtheria.~ Milk occasionally, though not often, serves as a medium for the dissemination
of diphtheria. Swithinbank and Newman[117] cites four cases in which the causal organism has
been isolated from milk. It has been observed that growth occurs more rapidly in raw than in
sterilized milk.[118]

Infection in this disease is more frequently attributable to direct infection from patient
on account of the long persistence of this germ in the throat, or indirectly through the medium
of an attendant.

~Scarlet fever.~ Although it is more difficult to study the relation of this disease to contaminated
milk supplies, because the causal germ of scarlet fever is not yet known, yet the origin of
a considerable number of epidemics has been traced to polluted milk supplies. Milk doubtless
is infected most frequently from persons in the earlier stages of the disease when the infectivity
of the disease is greater.

~Diarrhoeal diseases.~ Milk not infrequently acquires the property of producing diseases of
the digestive tract by reason of the development of various bacteria that form more or less
poisonous by-products. These troubles occur most frequently during the summer months, especially
with infants and children, as in cholera infantum and summer complaint. The higher mortality
of bottle-fed infants[119] in comparison with those that are nursed directly is explicable
on the theory that cows' milk is the carrier of the infection, because in many cases it is
not consumed until there has been ample time for the development of organisms in it. Where
milk is pasteurized or boiled it is found that the mortality among children is greatly reduced.
As a cause of sickness and death these diseases exceed in importance all other specific diseases
previously referred to. These troubles have generally been explained as produced by bacteria
of the putrefactive class which find their way into the milk through the introduction of filth
and dirt at time of milking.[120] Flügge[121] has demonstrated that certain peptonizing species
possess toxic properties for animals. Recent experimental inquiry[122] has demonstrated that
the dysentery bacillus (Shiga) probably bears a causal relation to some of these summer complaints.

~Ptomaine poisoning.~ Many cases of poisoning from food products are also reported with adults.
These are due to the formation of various toxic products, generally ptomaines, that are produced
as a result of infection of foods by different bacteria. One of these substances, tyrotoxicon,
was isolated by Vaughan[123] from cheese and various other products of milk, and found to possess
the property of producing symptoms of poisoning similar to those that are noted in such cases.
He attributes the production of this toxic effect to the decomposition of the elements in the
milk induced by putrefactive forms of bacteria that develop where milk is improperly kept.[124]
Often outbreaks of this character[125] assume the proportions of an epidemic, where a large
number of persons use the tainted food.

FOOTNOTES:

[78] Hart, Trans. Int. Med. Cong., London, 1881, 4:491-544.

[79] Freeman, Med. Rec., March 28, 1896.

[80] Busey and Kober, Rept. Health Off. of Dist. of Col., Washington, D. C., 1895, p. 299.
These authors present in this report an elaborate article on morbific and infectious milk,
giving a very complete bibliography of 180 numbers. They append to Hart's list (which is published
in full) additional outbreaks which have occurred since, together with full data as to extent
of epidemic, circumstances governing the outbreak, as well as name of original reporter and
reference.

[81] Smith, Theo., Journ. of Expt. Med., 1898, 3:451.

[82] Dinwiddie, Bull. 57, Ark. Expt. Stat., June, 1899; Ravenel, Univ. of Penn. Med. Bull.,
Sept. 1901.

[83] Ravenel, Journ. of Comp. Med. & Vet. Arch., Dec. 1897; Hartzell, Journ. Amer. Med. Ass'n,
April 16, 1898.

[84] Stille, Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 19, 1899.

[85] This test is made by injecting into the animal a small quantity of tuberculin, which is
a sterilized glycerin extract of cultures of the tubercle bacillus. In a tuberculous animal,
even in the very earliest phases of the disease, tuberculin causes a temporary fever that lasts
for a few hours. By taking the temperature a number of times before and after injection it
is possible to readily recognize any febrile condition. A positive diagnosis is made where
the temperature after inoculation is at least 2.0° F. above the average normal, and where the
reaction fever is continued for a period of some hours.

[86] Martin, Brit. Med. Journ. 1895, 1:937; Nocard, Les Tuberculoses animales, 1895.

[87] C. O. Jensen, Milch Kunde und Milch hygiene, p. 69.

[88] Ostertag, Milch Zeit., 22:672.

[89] Obermüller, Hyg. Rund., 1897, p. 712; Petri, Arb. a. d. Kais. Ges. Amte, 1898, 14: 1;
Hormann und Morgenroth, Hyg. Rund., 1898, p. 217.

[90] Rabinowitsch, Zeit. f. Hyg., 1897, 26: 90.

[91] Th. Smith. Journ. of Expt. Med., 1899, 4:217.

[92] Russell and Hastings, 18 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat., 1901.

[93] Hesse, Zeit. f. Hyg., 1900, 34:346.

[94] Practically all of the finest butter made in Denmark is made from cream that has been
pasteurized at temperatures varying from 160°-185° F.

[95] Gebhardt, Virch. Arch., 1890, 119:12.

[96] Scheurlen, Arb. a. d. k. Ges. Amte, 1891, 7:269; Bang, Milch Zeit., 1893, p. 672.

[97] Moore, Year Book of U. S. Dept. Agr., 1895, p. 432.

[98] Weigel and Noack, Jahres. d. Ges. Med., 1890, p. 642; Weissenberg, Allg. med. Cent. Zeit.,
1890, p. 1; Baum, Arch. f. Thierheilkunde, 1892, 18:16.

[99] Schneider, Münch, med. Wochenschr., 1893, No. 27; Fröhner, Zeit f. Fleisch u. Milchhygiene,
1891, p. 55.

[100] Feser, Deutsche Zeit. f. Thiermed., 1880, 6:166.

[101] Nocard, Bull. Gén., 1885, p. 54.

[102] Deutsche Viertelsjahr. f. offentl. Gesundheitspflege, 1890, 20:444.

[103] Zeit. f. Fleisch und Milch hygiene, 11:114.

[104] E. Roth, Deutsche Vierteljahresschr. f. offentl. Gesundheitspfl., 1890, 22:238

[105] S. W. North, London Practitioner, 1889, 43:393.

[106] Sedgwick and Chapin, Boston Med. & Surg. Journ., 1893, 129:485.

[107] Dabney, Phila. Med. News, 1893, 63:630.

[108] Welphy, London Lancet, 1894, 2:1085.

[109] Brit. Med. Journ., 1894, 1:815.

[110] Mass. Bd. Health Rept., 1894, p. 765.

[111] Turner, London Practitioner, 1892, 49:141; Munro, Brit. Med. Journ., 1894, 2:829.

[112] Hankin, Brit. Med. Journ., 1894, 2:613.

[113] Heim (Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesundheitsamte, 1889, 5:303) finds it capable of living from
20-30 days in milk.

[114] Schüder (Zeit. f. Hyg., 1902, 38:34) examined the statistics of 638 typhoid epidemics.
He found 71 per cent. due to infected drinking water, 17 per cent. to infected milk, and 3.5
per cent. caused by other forms of food.

[115] Kitasato. Arb. a. d. Kais. Gesundheitsamte, 1:470.

[116] Simpson, London Practitioner, 1887, 39:144.

[117] Swithinbank and Newman, Bacteriology of Milk, p. 341.

[118] Schottelius and Ellerhorst. Milch Zeit., 1897, pp. 40 and 73.

[119] Baginsky, Hyg. Rund., 1895, p. 176.

[120] Gaffky, Deutsch. med. Wochen., 18:14.

[121] Flügge. Zeit., f. Hyg., 17:272, 1894.

[122] Duval and Bassett, Studies from the Rockefeller Inst. for Med. Research, 2:7, 1904.

[123] Zeit. f. physiol. Chemie, 10:146; 9 Intern. Hyg. Cong. (London), 1891, p. 118.

[124] Vaughan and Perkins, Arch. f. Hyg., 27:308.

[125] Newton and Wallace (Phila. Med. News, 1887, 50:570) report three outbreaks at Long Branch,
N. J., two of which occurred in summer hotels.

CHAPTER VI.

BACTERIA AND MILK SUPPLIES WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO METHODS OF PRESERVATION.

To the milk dealer or distributor, bacteria are more or less of a detriment. None of the organisms
that find their way into milk, nor the by-products formed by their growth, improve the quality
of milk supplies. It is therefore especially desirable from the milk-dealer's point of view
that these changes should be held in abeyance as much as possible. Then too, the possibility
that milk may serve as a medium for the dissemination of disease-breeding bacteria makes it
advisable to protect this food supply from all possible infection from suspicious sources.

In considering, therefore, the relation of bacteria to general milk supplies, the economic
and the hygienic standpoints must be taken into consideration. Ordinarily much more emphasis
is laid upon the first requirement. If the supply presents no abnormal feature as to taste,
odor and appearance, unfortunately but little attention is paid to the possibility of infection
by disease germs. The methods of control which are applicable to general milk supplies are
based on the following foundations: (1) the exclusion of all bacterial life, as far as practicable,
at the time the milk is drawn, and the subsequent storage of the same at temperatures unfavorable
for the growth of the organisms that do gain access; (2) the removal of the bacteria, wholly
or in part, after they have once gained access.

Until within comparatively recent years, practically no attention was given to the character
of milk supplies, except possibly as to the percentage of butter fat, and sometimes the milk
solids which it contained. So long as the product could be placed in the hands of the consumer
in such shape as not to be rejected by him as unfit for food, no further attention was likely
to be given to its character. At present, however, much more emphasis is being given to the
quality of milk, especially as to its germ content; and the milk dealer is beginning to recognize
the necessity of a greater degree of control. This control must not merely concern the handling
of the product after it reaches him, but should go back to the milk producer on the farm. Here
especially, it is necessary to inculcate those methods of cleanliness which will prevent in
large measure the wholesale infection that ordinarily occurs.

The two watch words which are of the utmost importance to the milk dealer are cleanliness and
cold. If the milk is properly drawn from the animal in a clean manner and is immediately and
thoroughly chilled, the dealer has little to fear as to his product. Whenever serious difficulties
do arise, attributable to bacterial changes, it is because negligence has been permitted in
one or both directions. The influence of cleanliness in diminishing the bacterial life in milk
and that of low temperatures in repressing the growth of those forms which inevitably gain
access has been fully dealt with in preceding chapters. It is of course not practicable to
take all of these precautions to which reference has been made in the securing of large supplies
of market milk for city use, but great improvement over existing conditions could be secured
if the public would demand a better supervision of this important food article. Boards of health
in our larger cities are awakening to the importance of this question and are becoming increasingly
active in the matter of better regulations and the enforcement of the same.

New York City Board of Health has taken an advanced position in requiring that all milk sold
in the city shall be chilled down to 45° F. immediately after milking and shall be transported
to the city in refrigerator cars.

Reference has already been made to the application of the acid test (page 52) in the inspection
of city milk supplies, and it is the opinion of the writer that the curd test (see page 76)
could also be used with advantage in determining the sanitary character of milk. This test
reveals the presence of bacteria usually associated with dirt and permits of the recognition
of milks that have been carelessly handled. From personal knowledge of examinations made of
the milk supplies in a number of Wisconsin cities it appears that this test could be utilized
with evident advantage.

~"Sanitary" or "certified" milk supplies.~ In a number of the larger cities, the attempt has
been made to improve the quality of the milk supplies by the installation of dairies in which
is produced an especially high grade of milk. Frequently the inspection of the dairy as well
as the examination of the milk at stated intervals is under the control of milk commissions
or medical societies and as it is customary to distribute the certificate of the examining
board with the product, such milks are frequently known as "certified." In such dairies the
tuberculin test is used at regular intervals, and the herd inspected frequently by competent
veterinarians. The methods of control inaugurated as to clean milking and subsequent handling
are such as to insure the diminution of the bacteria to the lowest possible point. The bacterial
limit set by the Pediatric Society of Philadelphia is 10,000 organisms per cc. Often it is
possible to improve very materially on this standard and not infrequently is the supply produced
where it contains only a few thousand organisms per cc. Where such a degree of care is exercised,
naturally a considerably higher price must be paid for the product,[126] and it should be remembered
that the development of such a system is only possible in relatively large centers where the
dealer can cater to a selected high-class trade. Moreover, it should also be borne in mind
that such a method of control is only feasible in dairies that are under individual control.
The impossibility of exercising adequate control with reference to the milking process and
the care which should be given the milk immediately thereafter, when the same is produced on
different farms under various auspices is evident.

PRESERVATION OF MILK SUPPLIES.

While much can be done to improve the quality of milk supplies by excluding a large proportion
of the bacteria which normally gain access to the milk, and preventing the rapid growth of
those that do find their way therein, yet for general municipal purposes, any practical method
of preservation[127] that is applicable on a commercial scale must rest largely upon the destruction
of bacteria that are present in the milk.

The two possible methods by which bacteria can be destroyed after they have once gained access
is (1) by the use of chemical preservatives; (2) by the aid of physical methods.

~Chemical preservatives.~ Numerous attempts have been made to find some chemical substance
that could be added to milk which would preserve it without interfering with its nutritive
properties, but as a general rule a substance that is toxic enough to destroy or inhibit the
growth of bacterial life exerts a prejudicial effect on the tissues of the body. The use of
chemicals, such as carbolic acid, mercury salts and mineral acids, that are able to entirely
destroy all life, is of course excluded, except when milk is preserved for analytical purposes;
but a number of milder substances are more or less extensively employed, although the statutes
of practically all states forbid their use.

The substances so used may be grouped in two classes:

1. Those that unite chemically with certain by-products of bacterial growth to form inert substances.
Thus bicarbonate of soda neutralizes the acid in souring milk, although it does not destroy
the lactic acid bacteria.

2. Those that act directly upon the bacteria in milk, restraining or inhibiting their development.
The substances most frequently utilized are salicylic acid, formaldehyde and boracic acid.
These are nearly always sold to the milk handler, under some proprietary name, at prices greatly
in excess of what the crude chemicals could be bought for in the open market. Formaldehyde
has been widely advertised of late, but its use is fraught with the greatest danger, for it
practically renders insoluble all albuminous matter and its toxic effect is greatly increased
in larger doses.

These substances are generally used by milk handlers who know nothing of their poisonous action,
and although it may be possible for adults to withstand their use in dilute form, without serious
results, yet their addition to general milk supplies that may be used by children is little
short of criminal. The sale of these preparations for use in milk finds its only outlet with
those dairymen who are anxious to escape the exactions that must be met by all who attempt
to handle milk in the best possible manner. Farrington has suggested a simple means for the
detection of preservalin (boracic acid).[128] When this substance is added to fresh milk, it
increases the acidity of milk without affecting its taste. As normal milk tastes sour when
it contains about 0.3 per cent lactic acid, a milk that tests as much or more than this without
tasting sour has been probably treated with this antiseptic agent.

~Physical methods of preservation.~ Methods based upon the application of physical forces are
less likely to injure the nutritive value of milk, and are consequently more effective, if
of any value whatever. A number of methods have been tried more or less thoroughly in an experimental
way that have not yet been reduced to a practical basis, as electricity, use of a vacuum, and
increased pressure.[129] Condensation has long been used with great success, but in this process
the nature of the milk is materially changed. The keeping quality in condensed milk often depends
upon the action of another principle, viz., the inhibition of bacterial growth by reason of
the concentration of the medium. This condition is reached either by adding sugar and so increasing
the soluble solids, or by driving off the water by evaporation, preferably in a vacuum pan.
Temperature changes are, however, of the most value in preserving milk, for by a variation
in temperature all bacterial growth can be brought to a standstill, and under proper conditions
thoroughly destroyed.

~Use of low temperatures.~ The effect of chilling or rapid cooling on the keeping quality of
milk is well known. When the temperature of milk is lowered to the neighborhood of 45° F.,
the development of bacterial life is so slow as to materially increase the period that milk
remains sweet. Within recent years, attempts have been made to preserve milk so that it could
be shipped long distances by freezing the product, which in the form of milk-ice could be held
for an indefinite period without change.[130] A modification of this process known as Casse's
system has been in use more or less extensively in Copenhagen and in several places in Germany.
This consists of adding a small block of milk-ice (frozen milk) to large cans of milk (one
part to about fifty of milk) which may or may not be pasteurized.[131] This reduces the temperature
so that the milk remains sweet considerably longer. Such a process might permit of the shipment
of milk for long distances with safety but as a matter of fact, the system has not met with
especial favor.

~Use of high temperatures.~ Heat has long been used as a preserving agent. Milk has been scalded
or cooked to keep it from time immemorial. Heat may be used at different temperatures, and
when so applied exerts a varying effect, depending upon temperature employed. All methods of
preservation by heat rest, however, upon the application of the heat under the following conditions:

1. A temperature above the maximum growing-point (105°-115° F.) and below the thermal death-point
(130°-140° F.) will prevent further growth, and consequently fermentative action.

2. A temperature above the thermal death-point destroys bacteria, and thereby stops all changes.
This temperature varies, however, with the condition of the bacteria, and for spores is much
higher than for vegetative forms.

Attempts have been made to employ the first principle in shipping milk by rail, viz., prolonged
heating above growing temperature, but when milk is so heated, its physical appearance is changed.[132]
The methods of heating most satisfactorily used are known as sterilization and pasteurization,
in which a degree of temperature is used approximating the boiling and scalding points respectively.

~Effect of heat on milk.~ When milk is subjected to the action of heat, a number of changes
in its physical and chemical properties are to be noted.

1. Diminished "body." When milk, but more especially cream, is heated to 140° F. or above,
it becomes thinner in consistency or "body," a condition which is due to a change in the grouping
of the fat globules. In normal milk, the butter fat for the most part is massed in microscopic
clots as (Fig. 22). When exposed to 140° F. or above for ten minutes these fat-globule clots
break down, and the globules become homogeneously distributed (Fig. 23). A momentary exposure
to heat as high as 158°-160° may be made without serious effect on the cream lime; but above
this the cream rises so poorly and slowly that it gives the impression of thinner milk.

2. Cooked Taste. If milk is heated for some minutes to 160° F., it acquires a cooked taste
that becomes more pronounced as the temperature is further raised. Milk so heated develops
on its surface a pellicle or "skin." The cause of this change in taste is not well known. Usually
it has been explained as being produced by changes in the nitrogenous elements in the milk,
particularly in the albumen. Thoerner[133] has pointed out the coincidence that exists between
the appearance of a cooked taste and the loss of certain gases that are expelled by heating.
He finds that the milk heated in closed vessels from which the gas cannot escape has a much
less pronounced cooked flavor than if heated in an open vessel. The so-called "skin" on the
surface of heated milk is not formed when the milk is heated in a tightly-closed receptacle.
By some[134] it is asserted that this layer is composed of albumen, but there is evidence to
show that it is modified casein due to the rapid evaporation of the milk serum at the surface
of the milk.

3. Digestibility. Considerable difference of opinion has existed in the minds of medical men
as to the relative digestibility of raw and heated milks. A considerable amount of experimental
work has been done by making artificial digestion experiments with enzyms, also digestion experiments
with animals, and in a few cases with children. The results obtained by different investigators
are quite contradictory, although the preponderance of evidence seems to be in favor of the
view that heating does impair the digestibility of milk, especially if the temperature attains
the sterilizing point.[135] It has been observed that there is a noteworthy increase in amount
of rickets,[136] scurvy and marasmus in children where highly-heated milks are employed. These
objections do not obtain with reference to milk heated to moderate temperatures, as in pasteurization,
although even this lower temperature lessens slightly its digestibility. The successful use
of pasteurized milks in children's hospitals is evidence of its usefulness.

4. Fermentative changes. The normal souring change in milk is due to the predominance of the
lactic acid bacteria, but as these organisms as a class do not possess spores, they are readily
killed when heated above the thermal death-point of the developing cell. The destruction of
the lactic forms leaves the spore-bearing types possessors of the field, and consequently the
fermentative changes in heated milk are not those that usually occur, but are characterized
by the curdling of the milk from the action of rennet enzyms.

5. Action of rennet. Heating milk causes the soluble lime salts to be precipitated, and as
the curdling of milk by rennet (in cheese-making) is dependent upon the presence of these salts,
their absence in heated milks greatly retards the action of rennet. This renders it difficult
to utilize heated milks in cheese-making unless the soluble lime salts are restored, which
can be done by adding solutions of calcium chlorid.

~Sterilization.~ As ordinarily used in dairying, sterilization means the application of heat
at temperatures approximating, if not exceeding, 212° F. It does not necessarily imply that
milk so treated is sterile, i. e., germ-free; for, on account of the resistance of spores,
it is practically impossible to destroy entirely all these hardy forms. If milk is heated at
temperatures above the boiling point, as is done where steam pressure is utilized, it can be
rendered practically germ-free. Such methods are employed where it is designed to keep milk
sweet for a long period of time. The treatment of milk by sterilization has not met with any
general favor in this country, although it has been more widely introduced abroad. In most
cases the process is carried out after the milk is bottled; and considerable ingenuity has
been exercised in the construction of devices which will permit of the closure of the bottles
after the sterilizing process has been completed. Milks heated to so high a temperature have
a more or less pronounced boiled or cooked taste, a condition that does not meet with general
favor in this country. The apparatus suitable for this purpose must, of necessity, be so constructed
as to withstand steam pressure, and consequently is considerably more expensive than that required
for the simpler pasteurizing process.

~Pasteurization.~ In this method the degree of heat used ranges from 140° to 185° F. and the
application is made for only a limited length of time. The process was first extensively used
by Pasteur (from whom it derives its name) in combating various maladies of beer and wine.
Its importance as a means of increasing the keeping quality of milk was not generally recognized
until a few years ago; but the method is now growing rapidly in favor as a means of preserving
milk for commercial purposes. The method does not destroy all germ-life in milk; it affects
only those organisms that are in a growing, vegetative condition; but if the milk is quickly
cooled, it enhances the keeping quality very materially. It is unfortunate that this same term
is used in connection with the heating of cream as a preparatory step to the use of pure cultures
in cream-ripening in butter-making. The objects to be accomplished vary materially and the
details of the two processes are also quite different.

While pasteurizing can be performed on a small scale by the individual, the process can also
be adapted to the commercial treatment of large quantities of milk. The apparatus necessary
for this purpose is not nearly so expensive as that used in sterilizing, a factor of importance
when other advantages are considered. In this country pasteurization has made considerable
headway, not only in supplying a milk that is designed to serve as children's food, but even
for general purposes.

~Requirements essential in pasteurization.~ While considerable latitude with reference to pasteurizing
limits is permitted, yet there are certain conditions which should be observed, and these,
in a sense, fix the limits that should be employed. These may be designated as (1) the physical,
and (2) the biological requirements.

~Physical requirements.~ 1. Avoidance of scalded or cooked taste. The English and American
people are so averse to a scalded or cooked flavor in milk that it is practically impossible
for a highly heated product to be sold in competition with ordinary raw milk. In pasteurization
then, care must be taken not to exceed the temperature at which a permanently cooked flavor
is developed. As previously observed, this point varies with the period of exposure. A momentary
exposure to a temperature of about 170° F. may be made without any material alteration, but
if the heat is maintained for a few minutes (ten minutes or over), a temperature of 158° to
160° F. is about the maximum that can be employed with safety.

2. Normal creaming of the milk. It is especially desirable that a sharp and definite cream
line be evident on the milk soon after pasteurization. If this fails to appear, the natural
inference of the consumer is that the milk is skimmed. If the milk be heated to a temperature
sufficiently high to cause the fat-globule clusters to disintegrate (see Figs. 22 and 23),
the globules do not rise to the surface as readily as before and the cream line remains indistinct.
Where the exposure is made for a considerable period of time (10 minutes or more), the maximum
temperature which can be used without producing this change is about 140° F.; if the exposure
is made for a very brief time, a minute or less, the milk may be heated to 158°-160 F.° without
injuring the creaming property.

3. No diminution in cream "body." Coincident with this change which takes place in the creaming
of the milk is the change in body or consistency which is noted where cream is pasteurized
at too high a temperature. For the same reason as given under (2) cream heated above these
temperatures is reduced in apparent thickness and appears to contain less butter-fat. Of course
the pasteurizing process does not change the fat content, but its "body" is apparently so affected.
Thus a 25 per cent. cream may seem to be no thicker or heavier than an 18 per cent. raw cream.
This real reduction in consistency naturally affects the readiness with which the cream can
be whipped.

~Biological requirements.~ 1. Enhanced keeping quality. In commercial practice the essential
biological requirement is expressed in the enhanced keeping quality of the pasteurized milk.
This expresses in a practical way the reduction in germ life accomplished by the pasteurizing
process. The improvement in keeping quality depends upon the temperature and time of exposure,
but fully as much also on the way in which the pasteurized product is handled after heating.
The lowest temperature which can be used with success to kill the active, vegetative bacteria
is about 140° F., at which point it requires about ten minutes exposure. If this period is
curtailed the temperature must be raised accordingly. An exposure to a temperature of 175°
F. for a minute has approximately the same effect as the lower degree of heat for the longer time.

The following bacteriological studies as to the effect which a variation in temperature exerts
on bacterial life in milk are of importance as indicating the foundation for the selection
of the proper limits. In the following table the exposures were made for a uniform period (20
minutes):

The bacterial content of milk heated at different temperatures.

                          Number of bacteria per cc. in milk.
                            45° C.     50° C.   55° C.   60° C.   65° C.  70° C.
               Unheated    113° F.    122° F.  131° F.  140° F.  149° F. 158° F.
Series I.     2,895,000    ----     1,260,000  798,000  32,000    5,770    3,900
Series II.      750,000    665,000    262,400   201,000    950      700      705
Series III.   1,350,000  1,100,000    260,000  215,000     575      610      650
Series IV.    1,750,000    ----        87,360   ----     4,000     3,500   3,600

It appears from these results that the most marked decrease in temperature occurs at 140° F.
(60° C.). It should also be observed that an increase in heat above this temperature did not
materially diminish the number of organisms present, indicating that those forms remaining
were in a spore or resistant condition. It was noted, however, that the developing colonies
grew more slowly in the plates made from the highly heated milk, showing that their vitality
was injured to a greater extent even though not killed.

2. Destruction of disease bacteria. While milk should be pasteurized so as to destroy all active,
multiplying bacteria, it is particularly important to destroy any organisms of a disease nature
that might find their way into the same. Fortunately most of the bacteria capable of thriving
in milk before or after it is drawn from the animal are not able to form spores and hence succumb
to proper pasteurization. Such is the case with the diphtheria, cholera and typhoid organisms.

The organism that is invested with most interest in this connection is the tubercle bacillus.
On account of its more or less frequent occurrence in milk and its reputed high powers of resistance,
it may well be taken as a standard in pasteurizing.

~Thermal death limits of tubercle bacillus.~ Concerning the exact temperature at which this
germ is destroyed there is considerable difference of opinion. Part of this arises from the
inherent difficulty in determining exactly when the organism is killed (due to its failure
to grow readily on artificial media), and part from the lack of uniform conditions of exposure.
The standards that previously have been most generally accepted are those of De Man,[137] who
found that thirty minutes exposure at 149° F., fifteen minutes at 155° F., or ten minutes at
167° F., sufficed to destroy this germ.

More recently it has been demonstrated,[138] and these results confirmed,[139] that if tuberculous
milk is heated in closed receptacles where the surface pellicle does not form, the vitality
of this disease germ is destroyed at 140° F. in 10-15 minutes, while an exposure at 160° F.
requires only about one minute.[140] If the conditions of heating are such that the surface
of the milk is exposed to the air, the resistance of bacteria is greatly increased. When heated
in open vessels Smith found that the tubercle organism was not killed in some cases where the
exposure was made for at least an hour. Russell and Hastings[141] have shown an instance where
the thermal death-point of a micrococcus isolated from pasteurized milk was increased 12.5°
F., by heating it under conditions that permitted of the formation of the scalded layer. It
is therefore apparent that apparatus used for pasteurization should be constructed so as to
avoid this defect.

~Methods of treatment.~ Two different systems of pasteurization have grown up in the treatment
of milk. One of these has been developed from the hygienic or sanitary aspect of the problem
and is used more particularly in the treatment of cream and relatively small milk supplies.
The other system has been developed primarily from the commercial point of view where a large
amount of milk must be treated in the minimum time. In the first method the milk is heated
for a longer period of time, about fifteen minutes at a relatively low temperature from 140°-155°
F.; in the other, the milk is exposed to the source of heat only while it is passing rapidly
through the apparatus. Naturally, the exposure under such conditions must be made at a considerably
higher temperature, usually in the neighborhood of 160° F.

The types of apparatus used in these respective processes naturally varies. Where the heating
is prolonged, the apparatus employed is built on the principle of a tank or reservoir in which
a given volume of milk may be held at any given temperature for any given period of time.

When the heat is applied for a much shorter period of time, the milk is passed in a continuous
stream through the machine. Naturally the capacity of a continuous-flow apparatus is much greater
than a machine that operates on the intermittent principle; hence, for large supplies, as in
city distribution, this system has a great advantage. The question as to relative efficiency
is however one which should be given most careful consideration.

~Pasteurizing apparatus.~ The problems to be solved in the pasteurization of milk and cream
designed for direct consumption are so materially different from where the process is used
in butter-making that the type of machinery for each purpose is quite different. The equipment
necessary for the first purpose may be divided into two general classes:

1. Apparatus of limited capacity designed for family use.

2. Apparatus of sufficient capacity to pasteurize on a commercial scale.

~Domestic pasteurizers.~ In pasteurizing milk for individual use, it is not desirable to treat
at one time more than will be consumed in one day; hence an apparatus holding a few bottles
will suffice. In this case the treatment can best be performed in the bottle itself, thereby
lessening the danger of infection. Several different types of pasteurizers are on the market;
but special apparatus is by no means necessary for the purpose. The process can be efficiently
performed by any one with the addition of an ordinary dairy thermometer to the common utensils
found in the kitchen. Fig. 24 indicates a simple contrivance that can be readily arranged for
this purpose.

The following suggestions indicate the different steps of the process:

1. Use only fresh milk.

2. Place milk in clean bottles or fruit cans, filling to a uniform level, closing bottles tightly
with a cork or cover. If pint and quart cans are used at the same time, an inverted bowl will
equalize the level. Set these in a flat-bottomed tin pail and fill with warm water to same
level as milk. An inverted pie tin punched with holes will serve as a stand on which to place
the bottles during the heating process.

3. Heat water in pail until the temperature of same reaches 155° to 160° F.; then remove from
source of direct heat, cover with a cloth or tin cover, and allow the whole to stand for half
an hour. In the preparation of milk for children, it is not advisable to use the low-temperature
treatment (140° F.) that is recommended for commercial city delivery.

4. Remove bottles of milk and cool them as rapidly as possible without danger to bottles and
store in a refrigerator.

~Commercial pasteurizers.~ The two methods of pasteurization practiced commercially for the
preservation of milk and cream have been developed because of the two types of machinery now
in use. Apparatus constructed on the reservoir or tank principle permits of the retention of
the milk for any desired period of time. Therefore, a lower temperature can be employed in
the treatment. In those machines where the milk flows through the heater in a more or less
continuous stream, the period of exposure is necessarily curtailed, thereby necessitating a
higher temperature.

~Reservoir pasteurizers.~ The simplest type of apparatus suitable for pasteurizing on this
principle is where the milk is placed in shotgun cans and immersed in water heated by steam.
Ordinary tanks surrounded with water spaces can also be used successfully. The Boyd cream ripening
vat has also been tried. In this the milk is heated by a swinging coil immersed in the vat
through which hot water circulates.

In 1894 the writer[142] constructed a tank pasteurizer which consisted of a long, narrow vat
surrounded by a steam-heated water chamber. Both the milk and the water chambers were provided
with mechanical agitators having a to-and-fro movement.

Another machine which has been quite generally introduced is the Potts' rotating pasteurizer.
This apparatus has a central milk chamber that is surrounded with an outer shell containing
hot water. The whole machine revolves on a horizontal axis, and the cream or milk is thus thoroughly
agitated during the heating process.

~Continuous-flow pasteurizers.~ The demand for greater capacity than can be secured in the
reservoir machines has led to the perfection of several kinds of apparatus where the milk is
heated momentarily as it flows through the apparatus. Most of these were primarily introduced
for the treatment of cream for butter-making purposes, but they are frequently employed for
the treatment of milk on a large scale in city milk trade. Many of them are of European origin
although of late years several have been devised in this country.

The general principle of construction is much the same in most of them. The milk is spread
out in a thin sheet, and is treated by passing it over a surface, heated either with steam
directly or preferably with hot water.

Where steam is used directly, it is impossible to prevent the "scalding on" of the milk proteids
to the heated surface.

In some of these machines (Thiel, Kuehne, Lawrence, De Laval, and Hochmuth), a ribbed surface
is employed over which the milk flows, while the opposite surface is heated with hot water
or steam. Monrad, Lefeldt and Lentsch employ a centrifugal apparatus in which a thin layer
of milk is heated in a revolving drum.

In some types of apparatus, as in the Miller machine, an American pasteurizer, the milk is
forced in a thin sheet between two heated surfaces, thereby facilitating the heating process.
In the Farrington machine heated discs rotate in a reservoir through which the milk flows in
a continuous stream.

One of the most economical types of apparatus is the regenerator type (a German machine), in
which the milk passes over the heating surface in a thin stream and then is carried back over
the incoming cold milk so that the heated liquid is partially cooled by the inflowing fresh
milk. In machines of this class it requires very much less steam to heat up the milk than in
those in which the cold milk is heated wholly by the hot water.

A number of machines have been constructed on the principle of a reservoir which is fed by
a constantly flowing stream. In some kinds of apparatus of this type no attempt is made to
prevent the mixing of the recently introduced milk with that which has been partially heated.
The pattern for this reservoir type is Fjord's heater, in which the milk is stirred by a stirrer.
This apparatus was originally designed as a heater for milk before separation, but it has since
been materially modified so that it is better adapted to the purposes of pasteurization. Reid
was the first to introduce this type of machine into America.

~Objections to continuous flow pasteurizers.~ In all continuous flow pasteurizers certain defects
are more or less evident. While they fulfill the important requirement of large capacity, an
absolute essential where large volumes of milk are being handled, it does not of necessity
follow that they conform to all the hygienic and physical requirements that should be kept
in mind. The greatest difficulty is the shortened period of exposure. The period which the
milk is actually heated is often not more than a minute or so. Another serious defect is the
inability to heat all of the milk for a uniform period of time. At best, the milk is exposed
for an extremely short time, but even then portions pass through the machine much more quickly
than do the remainder. Those portions in contact with the walls of the apparatus are retarded
by friction and are materially delayed in their passage, while the particles in the center
of the stream, however thin, flow through in the least possible time.

The following simple method enables the factory operator to test the period of exposure in
the machine: Start the machine full of water, and after the same has become heated to the proper
temperature, change the inflow to full-cream milk, continuing at the same rate. Note the exact
time of change and also when first evidence of milkiness begins to appear at outflow. If samples
are taken from first appearance of milky condition and thereafter at different intervals for
several minutes, it is possible, by determining the amount of butter-fat in the same, to calculate
with exactness how long it takes for the milk to entirely replace the water.

Tests made by the writer[143] on the Miller pasteurizer showed, when fed at the rate of 1,700
pounds per hour, the minimum period of exposure to be 15 seconds, and the maximum about 60-70
seconds, while about two-thirds of the milk passed the machine in 40-50 seconds. This manifest
variation in the rate of flow of the milk through the machine is undoubtedly the reason why
the results of this type of treatment are subject to so much variation. Naturally, even a fatal
temperature to bacterial life can be reduced to a point where actual destruction of even vegetating
cells does not occur.

~Bacterial efficiency of reservoir pasteurizers.~ The bacterial content of pasteurized milk
and cream will depend somewhat on the number of organisms originally present in the same. Naturally,
if mixed milk brought to a creamery is pasteurized, the number of organisms remaining after
treatment would be greater than if the raw material was fresh and produced on a single farm.

An examination of milk and cream pasteurized on a commercial scale in the Russell vat at the
Wisconsin Dairy school showed that over 99.8 per cent of the bacterial life in raw milk or
cream was destroyed by the heat employed, i. e., 155° F. for twenty minutes duration.[144]
In nearly one-half of the samples of milk, the germ content in the pasteurized sample fell
below 1,000 bacteria per cc., and the average of twenty-five samples contained 6,140 bacteria
per cc. In cream the germ content was higher, averaging about 25,000 bacteria per cc. This
milk was taken from the general creamery supply, which was high in organisms, containing on
an average 3,675,000 bacteria per cc. De Schweinitz[145] has reported the germ content of a
supply furnished in Washington which was treated at 158° to 160° F. for fifteen minutes. This
supply came from a single source. Figures reported were from 48-hour-old agar plates. Undoubtedly
these would have been higher if a longer period of incubation had been maintained. The average
of 82 samples, taken for the period of one year, showed 325 bacteria per cc.

~Bacterial efficiency of continuous-flow pasteurizers.~ A quantitative determination of the
bacteria found in milk and cream when treated in machinery of this class almost always shows
a degree of variation in results that is not to be noted in the discontinuous apparatus.

Harding and Rogers[146] have tested the efficiency of one of the Danish type of continuous
pasteurizers. These experiments were made at 158°, 176° and 185° F. They found the efficiency
of the machine not wholly satisfactory at the lower temperatures. At 158° F. the average of
fourteen tests gave 15,300 bacteria per cc., with a maximum to minimum range from 62,790 to
120. Twenty-five examinations at 176° F. showed an average of only 117, with a range from 300
to 20. The results at 185° F. showed practically the same results as noted at 176° F. Considerable
trouble was experienced with the "scalding on" of the milk to the walls of the machine when
milk of high acidity was used.

Jensen[147] details the results of 139 tests in 1899, made by the Copenhagen Health Commission.
In 66 samples from one hundred thousand to one million organisms per cc. were found, and in
22 cases from one to five millions. Nineteen tests showed less than 10,000 per cc.

In a series of tests conducted by the writer[148] on a Miller pasteurizer in commercial operation,
an average of 21 tests showed 12,350 bacteria remaining in the milk when the milk was pasteurized
from 156°-164° F. The raw milk in these tests ran from 115,000 to about one million organisms
per cc.

A recently devised machine of this type (Pasteur) has been tested by Lehmann, who found that
it was necessary to heat the milk as high as 176° to 185° F., in order to secure satisfactory
results on the bacterial content of the cream.

The writer tested Reid's pasteurizer at 155° to 165° F. with the following results: in some
cases as many as 40 per cent. of the bacteria survived, which number in some cases exceeded
2,000,000 bacteria per cc.

~Pasteurizing details.~ While the pasteurizing process is exceedingly simple, yet, in order
to secure the best results, certain conditions must be rigidly observed in the treatment before
and after the heating process.

It is important to select the best possible milk for pasteurizing, for if the milk has not
been milked under clean conditions, it is likely to be rich in the spore-bearing bacteria.
Old milk, or milk that has not been kept at a low temperature, is much richer in germ-life
than perfectly fresh or thoroughly chilled milk.

The true standard for selecting milk for pasteurization should be to determine the actual number
of bacterial spores that are able to resist the heating process, but this method is impracticable
under commercial conditions.

The following method, while only approximate in its results, will be found helpful: Assuming
that the age or treatment of the milk bears a certain relation to the presence of spores, and
that the acid increases in a general way with an increase in age or temperature, the amount
of acid present may be taken as an approximate index of the suitability of the milk for pasteurizing
purposes. Biological tests were carried out in the author's laboratory[149] on milks having
a high and low acid content, and it was shown that the milk with the least acid was, as a rule,
the freest from spore-bearing bacteria.

This acid determination can be made at the weigh-can by employing the Farrington alkaline tablet
which is used in cream-ripening. Where milk is pasteurized under general creamery conditions,
none should be used containing more than 0.2 per cent acidity. If only perfectly fresh milk
is used, the amount of acid will generally be about 0.15 per cent with phenolphthalein as indicator.

Emphasis has already been laid on the selection of a proper limit of pasteurizing (p. 114).
It should be kept constantly in mind that the thermal death-point of any organism depends not
alone on the temperature used, but on the period of exposure. With the lower limits given,
140° F., it is necessary to expose the milk for not less than fifteen minutes. If a higher
heat is employed (and the cooked flavor disregarded) the period of exposure may be curtailed.

~Chilling the milk.~ It is very essential in pasteurizing that the heated milk be immediately
chilled in order to prevent the germination of the resistant spores, for if germination once
occurs, growth can go on at relatively low temperatures.

The following experiments by Marshall[150] are of interest as showing the influence of refrigeration
on germination of spores:

Cultures of organisms that had been isolated from pasteurized milk were inoculated into bouillon.
One set was left to grow at room temperature, another was pasteurized and allowed to stand
at same temperature, while another heated set was kept in a refrigerator. The unheated cultures
at room temperature showed evidence of growth in thirty trials in an average of 26 hours; 29
heated cultures at room temperature all developed in an average of 50 hours, while the heated
cultures kept in refrigerator showed no growth in 45 days with but four exceptions.

Practically all of the rapid-process machines are provided with especially constructed cooling
devices. In some of them, as in the Miller and Farrington, the cooling is effected by passing
the milk through two separate coolers that are constructed in the same general way as the heater.
With the first cooler, cold running water is employed, the temperature often being lowered
in this way to 58° or 60° F. Further lessening of the temperature is secured by an additional
ice water or brine cooler which brings the temperature down to 40°-50° F.

In the economical use of ice the ice itself should be applied as closely as possibly to the
milk to be cooled, for the larger part of the chilling value of ice comes from the melting
of the same. To convert a pound of ice at 32° F. into a pound of water at the same temperature,
if we disregard radiation, would require as much heat as would suffice to raise 142 pounds
of water one degree F., or one pound of water 142° F. The absorptive capacity of milk for heat
(specific heat) is not quite the same as it is with water, being .847 for milk in comparison
with 1.0 for water.[151] Hot milk would therefore require somewhat less ice to cool it than
would be required by any equal volume of water at the same temperature.

~Bottling the product.~ If the milk has been properly pasteurized, it should, of course, be
dispensed in sterilized bottles. Glass bottles with plain pulp caps are best, and these should
be thoroughly sterilized in steam before using. The bottling can best be done in a commercial
bottling machine. Care must be taken to thoroughly clean this apparatus after use each day.
Rubber valves in these machines suffer deterioration rapidly.

~Restoration of "body" of pasteurized cream.~ The action of heat causes the tiny groupings
of fat globules in normal milk (Fig. 22) to break up, and with this change, which occurs in
the neighborhood of 140° F., where the milk is heated for about 15 minutes and at about 160-165°
F. where rapidly heated in a continuous stream, the consistency of the liquid is diminished,
notwithstanding the fact that the fat-content remains unchanged. Babcock and the writer[152]
devised the following "cure" for this apparent defect. If a strong solution of cane sugar is
added to freshly slacked lime and the mixture allowed to stand, a clear fluid can be decanted
off. The addition of this alkaline liquid, which is called "viscogen," to pasteurized cream
in proportions of about one part of sugar-lime solution to 100 to 150 of cream, restores the
consistency of the cream, as it causes the fat globules to cluster together in small groups.

The relative viscosity of creams can easily be determined by the following method (Fig. 29):

Take a perfectly clean piece of glass (plate or picture glass is preferable, as it is less
liable to be wavy). Drop on one edge two or three drops of cream at intervals of an inch or
so. Then incline piece of glass at such an angle as to cause the cream to flow down surface
of glass. The cream, having the heavier body or viscosity, will move more slowly. If several
samples of each cream are taken, then the aggregate lengths of the different cream paths may
be taken, thereby eliminating slight differences due to condition of glass.

FOOTNOTES:

[126] From 10 to 16 cents per quart is usually paid for such milks.

[127] Much improvement in quality could be made by more careful control of milk during shipment,
especially as to refrigeration; also as to the care taken on the farms. The use of the ordinary
milking machine (see page 37), would go far to reduce the germ content of milk.

[128] Farrington, Journ. Amer. Chem. Soc., Sept., 1896.

[129] Hite, Bull. 58, West Va. Expt. Stat., 1899.

[130] Milch Zeit., 1895, No. 9.

[131] Ibid., 1897, No. 33.

[132] Bernstein, Milch Zeit., 1894, pp. 184, 200.

[133] Thoerner, Chem. Zeit., 18:845.

[134] Snyder, Chemistry of Dairying, p. 59.

[135] Doane and Price (Bull. 77, Md. Expt. Stat., Aug. 1901) give quite a full resumé of the
work on this subject in connection with rather extensive experiments made by them on feeding
animals with raw, pasteurized and sterilized milks.

[136] Rickets is a disease in which the bones lack sufficient mineral matter to give them proper
firmness. Marasmus is a condition in which the ingested food seems to fail to nourish the body
and gradual wasting away occurs.

[137] De Man, Arch. f. Hyg., 1893, 18:133.

[138] Th. Smith, Journ. of Expt. Med., 1899, 4:217.

[139] Russell and Hastings, 17 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat., 1900, p. 147.

[140] Russell and Hastings, 21 Rept. Ibid., 1904.

[141] Russell and Hastings, 18 Rept. Ibid., 1901.

[142] Russell, Bull. 44, Wis. Expt. Stat.

[143] Russell, 22 Wis. Expt. Stat. Rept., 1905, p. 232.

[144] Russell, 12 Wis. Expt. Stat. Rept., 1895, p. 160.

[145] De Schweinitz, Nat. Med. Rev., 1899, No. 11.

[146] Harding and Rogers. Bull. 182, N. Y. (Geneva) Expt. Stat., Dec., 1899.

[147] Jensen, Milchkunde und Milch Hygiene, p. 132.

[148] 22 Wis. Expt. Stat. Rept., 1905, p. 236.

[149] Shockley, Thesis, Univ. of Wis., 1896.

[150] Marshall, Mich. Expt. Stat., Bull. 147, p. 47.

[151] Fleischmann, Landw. Versuchts Stat., 17:251.

[152] Babcock and Russell, Bull. 54, Wis. Expt. Stat., Aug. 1896.

CHAPTER VII.

BACTERIA AND BUTTER-MAKING.

In making butter from the butter fat in milk, it is necessary to concentrate the fat globules
into cream, preliminary to the churning process. The cream may be raised by the gravity process
or separated from the milk by centrifugal action. In either case the bacteria that are normally
present in the milk differentiate themselves in varying numbers in the cream and the skim-milk.
The cream always contains per cc. a great many more than the skim-milk, the reason for this
being that the bacteria are caught and held in the masses of fat globules, which, on account
of their lighter specific gravity, move toward the surface of the milk or toward the interior
of the separator bowl. This filtering action of the fat globules is similar to what happens
in muddy water upon standing. As the suspended particles fall to the bottom they carry with
them a large number of the organisms that are in the liquid.

~Various creaming methods.~ The creaming method has an important bearing on the kind as well
as the number of the bacteria that are to be found in the cream. The difference in species
is largely determined by the difference in ripening temperature, while the varying number is
governed more by the age of the milk.

1. Primitive gravity methods. In the old shallow-pan process, the temperature of the milk is
relatively high, as the milk is allowed to cool naturally. This comparatively high temperature
favors especially the development of those forms whose optimum growing-point is near the air
temperature. By this method the cream layer is exposed to the air for a longer time than with
any other, and consequently the contamination from this source is greater. Usually cream obtained
by the shallow-pan process will contain a larger number of species and also have a higher acid
content.

2. Modern gravity methods. In the Cooley process, or any of the modern gravity methods where
cold water or ice is used to lower the temperature, the conditions do not favor the growth
of a large variety of species. The number of bacteria in the cream will depend largely upon
the manner in which the milk is handled previous to setting. If care is used in milking, and
the milk is kept so as to exclude outside contamination, the cream will be freer from bacteria
than if carelessness prevails in handling the milk. Only those forms will develop in abundance
that are able to grow at the low temperature at which the milk is set. Cream raised by this
method is less frequently infected with undesirable forms than that which is creamed at a higher
temperature.

3. Centrifugal method. Separator cream should contain less germ-life than that which is secured
in the old way. It should contain only those forms that have found their way into the milk
during and subsequent to the milking, for the cream is ordinarily separated so soon that there
is but little opportunity of infection, if care is taken in the handling. As a consequence,
the number of species found therein is smaller.

Where milk is separated, it is always prudent to cool the cream so as to check growth, as the
milk is generally heated before separating in order to skim efficiently.

Although cream is numerically much richer in bacteria than milk, yet the changes due to bacterial
action are slower; hence milk sours more rapidly than cream. For this same reason, cream will
sour sooner when it remains on the milk than it will if it is separated as soon as possible.
This fact indicates the necessity of early creaming, so as to increase the keeping quality
of the product, and is another argument in favor of the separator process.

~Ripening of cream.~ If cream is allowed to remain at ordinary temperatures, it undergoes a
series of fermentation changes that are exceedingly complex in character, the result of which
is to produce in butter made from the same the characteristic flavor and aroma that are so
well known in this article. We are so accustomed to the development of these flavors in butter
that they are not generally recognized as being intimately associated with bacterial activity
unless compared with butter made from perfectly fresh cream. Sweet-cream butter lacks the aromatic
principle that is prominent in the ripened product, and while the flavor is delicate, it is
relatively unpronounced.

In the primitive method of butter-making, where the butter was made on the farm, the ripening
of cream became a necessity in order that sufficient material might be accumulated to make
a churning. The ripening change occurred spontaneously without the exercise of any especial
control. With the development of the creamery system came the necessity of exercising a control
of this process, and therefore the modern butter-maker must understand the principles which
are involved in this series of complex changes that largely give to his product its commercial
value.

In these ripening changes three different factors are to be taken into consideration: the development
of acid, flavor and aroma. Much confusion in the past has arisen from a failure to discriminate
between these qualities. While all three are produced simultaneously in ordinary ripening,
it does not necessarily follow that they are produced by the same cause. If the ripening changes
are allowed to go too far, undesirable rather than beneficial decomposition products are produced.
These greatly impair the value of butter, so that it becomes necessary to know just to what
extent this process should be carried.

In cream ripening there is a very marked bacterial growth, the extent of which is determined
mainly by the temperature of the cream. Conn and Esten[153] find that the number of organisms
may vary widely in unripened cream, but that the germ content of the ripened product is more
uniform. When cream is ready for the churn, it often contains 500,000,000 organisms per cc.,
and frequently even a higher number. This represents a germ content that has no parallel in
any natural material.

The larger proportion of bacteria in cream as it is found in the creamery belong to the acid-producing
class, but in the process of ripening, these forms seem to thrive still better, so that when
it is ready for churning the germ content of the cream is practically made up of this type.

~Effect on churning.~ In fresh cream the fat globules which are suspended in the milk serum
are surrounded by a film of albuminous material which prevents them from coalescing readily.
During the ripening changes, this enveloping substance is modified, probably by partial solution,
so that the globules cohere when agitated, as in churning. The result is that ripened cream
churns more easily, and as it is possible to cause a larger number of the smaller fat-globules
to cohere to the butter granules, the yield is slightly larger--a point of considerable economic
importance where large quantities of butter are made.

~Development of acid.~ The result of this enormous bacterial multiplication is that acid is
produced in cream, lactic being the principal acid so formed.

Other organic acids are undoubtedly formed as well as certain aromatic products. While the
production of acid as a result of fermentative activity is usually accompanied with a development
of flavor, the flavor is not directly produced by the formation of acid. If cream is treated
in proper proportions with a commercial acid, as hydrochloric,[154] it assumes the same churning
properties as found in normally ripened cream, but is devoid of the desired aromatic qualities.
Lactic acid[155] has also been used in a similar way but with no better results.

The amount of acidity that should be developed under natural conditions so as to secure the
optimum quality as to flavor and aroma is the most important question in cream ripening. Concerning
this there have been two somewhat divergent views as to what is best in practice, some holding
that better results were obtained with cream ripened to a high degree of acidity than where
a less amount was developed.[156] The present tendency seems to be to develop somewhat more
than formerly, as it is thought that this secures more of the "high, quick" flavor wanted in
the market. On the average, cream is ripened to about 0.5 to 0.65 per cent. acidity, a higher
percentage than this giving a strong-flavored butter. In the determination of acidity, the
most convenient method is to employ the Farrington alkaline tablet, which permits of an accurate
and rapid estimation of the acidity in the ripening cream. The amount of acidity to be produced
must of necessity be governed by the amount of butter-fat present, for the formation of acid
is confined to the serum of the cream; consequently, a rich cream would show less acid by titration
than a thinner cream, and still contain really as much acid as the other. The importance of
this factor is evident in gathered-cream factories.

The rate of ripening is dependent upon the conditions that affect the rate of growth of bacterial
life, such as time and temperature, number of organisms in cream and also the per cent of butter
fat in the cream. Some years ago it was customary to ripen cream at about 50° to 60° F., but
more recently better results have been obtained, it is claimed, where the ripening temperature
is increased and the period of ripening lessened. As high a temperature as 70° to 75° F. has
been recommended. It should be said that this variation in practice may have a valid scientific
foundation, for the temperature of the ripening cream is undoubtedly the most potent factor
in determining what kind of bacteria will develop most luxuriantly. It is well known that those
forms that are capable of producing bitter flavors are able to thrive better at a lower temperature
than some of the desirable ripening species.

The importance of this factor would be lessened where a pure culture was used in pasteurized
cream, because here practically the selected organism alone controls the field.

It is frequently asserted that better results are obtained by stirring the cream and so exposing
it to the air as much as possible. Experiments made at the Ontario Agricultural College, however,
show practically no difference in the quality of the butter made by these two methods. The
great majority of the bacteria in the cream belong to the facultative class, and are able to
grow under conditions where they are not in direct contact with the air.

~Flavor and aroma.~ The basis for the peculiar flavor or taste which ripened cream-butter possesses
is due, in large part, to the formation of certain decomposition products formed by various
bacteria. Aroma is a quality often confounded with flavor, but this is produced by volatile
products only, which appeal to the sense of smell rather than taste. Generally a good flavor
is accompanied by a desirable aroma, but the origin of the two qualities is not necessarily
dependent on the same organisms. The quality of flavor and aroma in butter is, of course, also
affected by other conditions, as, for instance, the presence or absence of salt, as well as
the inherent qualities of the milk, that are controlled, to some extent at least, by the character
of the feed which is consumed by the animal. The exact source of these desirable but evanescent
qualities in butter is not yet satisfactorily determined. According to Storch,[157] flavors
are produced by the decomposition of the milk sugar and the absorption of the volatile flavors
by the butter fat. Conn[158] holds that the nitrogenous elements in cream serve as food for
bacteria, and in the decomposition of which the desired aromatic substance is produced. The
change is unquestionably a complex one, and cannot be explained as a single fermentation.

There is no longer much doubt but that both acid-forming and casein-digesting species can take
part in the production of proper flavors as well as desirable aromas. The researches of Conn,[159]
who has studied this question most exhaustively, indicate that both of these types of decomposition
participate in the production of flavor and aroma. He has shown that both flavor and aroma
production are independent of acid; that many good flavor-producing forms belong to that class
which renders milk alkaline, or do not change the reaction at all. Some of these species liquefied
gelatin and would therefore belong to the casein-dissolving class. Those species that produced
bad flavors are also included in both fermentative types. Conn has found a number of organisms
that are favorable flavor-producers; in fact they were much more numerous than desirable aroma-yielding
species. None of the favorable aroma forms according to his investigations were lactic-acid
species,--a view which is also shared by Weigmann.[160]

McDonnell[161] has found that the production of aroma in certain cases varies at different
temperatures, the most pronounced being evolved near the optimum growing temperature, which,
as a general rule, is too high for cream ripening.

The majority of bacteria in ripening cream do not seem to exert any marked influence in butter.
A considerable number of species are positively beneficial, inasmuch as they produce a good
flavor or aroma. A more limited number are concerned in the production of undesirable ripening
changes. This condition being true, it may seem strange that butter is as good as it is, because
so frequently the requisite care is not given to the development of proper ripening. In all
probability the chief reason why this is so is that those bacteria that find milk and cream
pre-eminently suited to their development, e. g. the lactic-acid class, are either neutral
or beneficial in their effect on butter.

~Use of starters.~ Experience has amply demonstrated that it is possible to control the nature
of the fermentative changes that occur in ripening cream to such an extent as to materially
improve the quality of the butter. This is frequently done by the addition of a "starter."
While starters have been employed for many years for the purpose mentioned, it is only recently
that their nature has been understood. A starter may be selected from widely divergent sources,
but in all cases it is sure to contain a large number of bacteria, and the presumption is that
they are of such a nature as to produce desirable fermentative changes in the cream.

In the selection of these so-called natural starters, it follows that they must be chosen under
such conditions as experience has shown to give favorable results. For this purpose, whole
milk from a single animal is often used where the same is observed to sour with the production
of no gas or other undesirable taint. A skim-milk starter from a mixed supply is recommended
by many. Butter milk is frequently employed, but in the opinion of butter experts is not as
suitable as the others mentioned.

It not infrequently happens that the practical operator may be misled in selecting a starter
that is not desirable, or by continuing its use after it has become contaminated.

In 1890[162] a new system of cream ripening was introduced in Denmark by Storch that possesses
the merit of being a truly scientific and at the same time practical method. This consisted
in the use of pure cultures of specific organisms that were selected on account of their ability
to produce a desirable ripening change in cream. The introduction of these so-called culture
starters has become universal in Denmark, and in parts of Germany. Their use is also rapidly
extending in this country, Australia and New Zealand.

~Principles of pure-culture cream-ripening.~ In the proper use of pure cultures for ripening
cream, it is necessary first to eliminate as far as possible the bacteria already present in
cream before the culture starter is added. This result is accomplished by heating the cream
to a temperature sufficiently high to destroy the vegetating organisms. The addition of a properly
selected starter will then give the chosen organism such an impetus as will generally enable
it to gain the ascendency over any other bacteria and so control the character of the ripening.
The principle employed is quite like that practiced in raising grain. The farmer prepares his
soil by plowing, in this way killing the weeds. Then he sows his selected grain, which is merely
a pure culture, and by the rapid growth of this, other forms are held in check.

The attempt has been made to use these culture starters in raw sweet cream, but it can scarcely
be expected that the most beneficial results will be attained in this way. This method has
been justified on the basis of the following experiments. Where cream is pasteurized and no
starter is added, the spore-bearing forms frequently produce undesirable flavors. These can
almost always be controlled if a culture starter is added, the obnoxious form being repressed
by the presence of the added starter. This condition is interpreted as indicating that the
addition of a starter to cream which already contains developing bacteria will prevent those
originally present in the cream from growing.[163] This repressive action of one species on
another is a well-known bacteriological fact, but it must be remembered that such an explanation
is only applicable in those cases where the culture organism is better able to develop than
those forms that already exist in the cream.

If the culture organism is added to raw milk or cream which already contains a flora that is
well suited to develop in this medium, it is quite doubtful whether it would gain the supremacy
in the ripening cream. The above method of adding a culture to raw cream renders cream-ripening
details less burdensome, but at the same time Danish experience, which is entitled to most
credence on this question, is opposed to this method.

~Reputed advantages of culture starters.~ 1. Flavor and aroma. Naturally the flavor produced
by pure-culture ferments depends upon the character of the organism used. Those which are most
extensively used are able to produce a perfectly clean but mild flavor, and a delicate but
not pronounced aroma. The "high, quick" flavor and aroma that is so much desired in the American
market is not readily obtained by the use of cultures. It is quite problematical whether the
use of any single species will give any more marked aroma than normally occurs in natural ripening.

2. Uniformity of product. Culture starters produce a more uniform product because the type
of fermentation is under more complete control, and herein is the greatest advantage to be
derived from their use. Even the best butter-maker at times will fail to secure uniform results
if his starter is not perfectly satisfactory.

3. Keeping quality of product. Butter made from pasteurized cream to which a pure-culture starter
has been added will keep much better than the ordinary product, because the diversity of the
bacterial flora is less and the milk is therefore not so likely to contain those organisms
that produce an "off" condition.

4. Elimination of taints. Many defective conditions in butter are attributable to the growth
of undesirable bacteria in the cream that result in the formation of "off" flavors and taints.
If cream is pasteurized, thereby destroying these organisms, then ripened with pure ferments,
it is generally possible to eliminate the abnormal conditions.[164] Taints may also be present
in cream due to direct absorption from the cow or through exposure to foul odors.[165] Troubles
of this sort may thus be carried over to the butter. This is particularly true in regions where
leeks and wild onions abound, as in some of the Atlantic States. The heating of the cream tends
to expel these volatile taints, so that a fairly good article of butter can be made from what
would otherwise be a relatively worthless product.

~Characteristics desired in culture starters.~ Certain conditions as the following are desirable
in starters made from pure cultures:

1. Vigorous growth in milk at ordinary ripening temperatures.

2. Ability to form acid so as to facilitate churning and increase the yield of butter.

3. Able to produce a clean flavor and desirable aroma.

4. Impart a good keeping quality to butter.

5. Not easily modified in its flavor-producing qualities by artificial cultivation.

These different conditions are difficult to attain, for the reason that some of them seem to
be in part incompatible. Weigmann[166] found that a good aroma was generally an evanescent
property, and therefore opposed to good keeping quality. Conn has shown that the functions
of acid-formation, flavor and aroma production are not necessarily related, and therefore the
chances of finding a single organism that possesses all the desirable attributes are not very good.

In all probability no one germ possesses all of these desirable qualities, but natural ripening
is the resultant of the action of several forms.[167] This idea has led to the attempt at mixing
selected organisms that have been chosen on account of certain favorable characteristics which
they might possess. The difficulty of maintaining such a composite culture in its correct proportions
when it is propagated in the creamery is seemingly well nigh insuperable, as one organism is
very apt to develop more or less rapidly than the other.

A very satisfactory way in which these cultures are marketed is to mix the bacterial growth
with some sterile, inert, dry substance. This is the method used in most of the Danish cultures.
In this country, some of the more prominent cultures employed are marketed in a liquid form.

~Culture vs. home-made starters.~ One great advantage which has accrued from the use of culture
or commercial starters has been that in emphasizing the need of closer control of the ripening
process, greater attention has been paid to the carrying out of the details. In the hands of
the better operators, the differences in flavor of butter made with a culture or a natural
starter are not marked,[168] but in the hands of those who fail to make a good product under
ordinary conditions, an improvement is often secured where a commercial culture is used.

~Pasteurization as applied to butter-making.~ This process, as applied to butter making, is
often confounded with the treatment of milk and cream for direct consumption. It is unfortunate
that the same term is used in connection with the two methods, for they have but little in
common except in the use of heat to destroy the germ life of the milk. In pasteurizing cream
for butter-making, it is not necessary to observe the stringent precautions that are to be
noted in the preservation of milk; for the addition of a rapidly developing starter controls
at once the fermentative changes that subsequently occur. Then again, the physical requirement
as to the production of a cooked taste is not so stringent in butter-making. While a cooked
taste is imparted to milk or even cream at about 158° F., it is possible to make butter that
shows no permanent cooked taste from cream that has been raised as high as 185° or even 195°
F. This is due to the fact that the fat does not readily take up those substances that give
to scalded milk its peculiar flavor.

Unless care is taken in the manipulation of the heated cream, the grain or body of the butter
may be injured. This tendency can be overcome if the ripened cream is chilled to 48° F. for
about two hours before churning. It is also essential that the heated cream should be quickly
and thoroughly chilled after being pasteurized.

The Danes, who were the first to employ pasteurization in butter-making, used, in the beginning,
a temperature ranging from 158° to 167° F., but owing to the prevalence of such diseases as
tuberculosis and foot-and-mouth disease, it became necessary to treat all of the skim milk
that was returned from the creameries. For this purpose the skim milk is heated to a temperature
of 176° F., it having been more recently determined that this degree of heat is sufficient
to destroy the seeds of disease. With the use of this higher temperature the capacity of the
pasteurizing apparatus is considerably reduced, but the higher temperature is rendered necessary
by the prevailing conditions as to disease.

When the system was first introduced in Denmark, two methods of procedure were followed: the
whole milk was heated to a sufficiently high temperature to thoroughly pasteurize it before
it was separated, or it was separated first, and the cream pasteurized afterwards. In the latter
case, it is necessary to heat the skim milk after separation to destroy the disease organisms,
but this can be quickly done by the use of steam directly. Much more care must be used in heating
the cream in order to prevent injury to the grain of the butter. In spite of the extra trouble
of heating the cream and skim milk separately, this method has practically supplanted the single
heating. With the continual spread of tuberculosis in America the heating of skim milk separately
is beginning to be introduced.[169]

~Use of starters in pasteurized and unpasteurized cream.~ In order to secure the beneficial
results presumably attributable to the use of a starter, natural as well as a pure culture,
it should be employed in cream in which the bacteria have first been killed out by pasteurization.
This is certainly the most logical and scientific method and is the way in which the process
has been developed in Denmark.

Here in this country, the use of pure cultures has been quite rapidly extended, but the system
of heating the cream has been used in only a slight measure. The increased labor and expense
incurred in pasteurizing the cream has naturally militated somewhat against the wide-spread
use of the process, but doubtless the main factor has been the inability to secure as high
a flavor where the cream was heated as in the unheated product. As the demands of the market
change from a high, quick flavor to one that is somewhat milder but of better keeping quality,
doubtless pasteurization of the cream will become more and more popular. That such a change
is gradually occurring is already evident, although as yet only a small proportion of butter
made in this country is now made in this way. Where the cream is unheated, a considerable number
of species will be found, and even the addition of a pure culture, if that culture is of the
lactic acid-producing species, will to some extent control the type of fermentation that occurs.
Such would not be the case with a culture composed of the casein-digesting type of bacteria.
Only those forms could thus be used which are especially well suited to development in raw
cream. For this reason the pure culture ferments that are generally employed in creamery practice
are organisms of the lactic acid type, able to grow rapidly in cream and produce a pure cream
flavor in the butter.

~Purity of commercial starters.~ Naturally the butter maker is forced to rely on the laboratory
for his commercial starter, and the question will often arise as to the purity and vigor of
the various ferments employed. As there is no way for the factory operator to ascertain the
actual condition of the starter, except by using the same, the greatest care should be taken
by the manufacturer to insure the absolute purity of the seed used.

A bacteriological examination of the various cultures which have been placed on the market
not infrequently reveals an impure condition. In several cases the writer has found a not inconsiderable
number of liquefying bacteria mixed with the selected organism. Molds not infrequently are
found in cultures put up in the dry form. Doubtless the effect of these accidental contaminations
is considerably less in the case of a starter composed of a distinctively lactic acid-producing
organism than with a form which is less capable of thriving vigorously in milk, and it should
be said that these impurities can frequently be eliminated by continued propagation.

The virility and vigor of the starter is also a fluctuating factor, dependent in part at least,
upon the conditions under which the organism is grown. In some cases the germ is cultivated
in solutions in which acid cannot be formed in abundance. Where the conditions permit of the
formation of acid, as would be the case if sugar was present with a lactic acid-producing species,
the vitality of the culture is often impaired by the action of the gradually accumulating acid.
Some manufacturers attempt to minimize this deleterious condition by adding carbonate of lime
which unites with the acid that is formed.

~Propagation of starters for cream-ripening.~ The preparation and propagation of a starter
for cream-ripening is a process involving considerable bacteriological knowledge, whether the
starter is of domestic origin or prepared from a pure-culture ferment. In any event, it is
necessary that the starter should be handled in a way so as to prevent the introduction of
foreign bacteria as far as possible. It should be remembered at all times that the starter
is a live thing and must be handled throughout its entire history in a way so as to retain
its vitality and vigor unimpaired. The following points should be taken into consideration
in growing the starter and transferring it from day to day:

1. If a commercial starter is used, see that it is fresh and that the seal has not been broken.
If the culture is too old, the larger part of the organisms may have died out before it is
transferred, in which case the effect of its addition to the sterilized milk would be of little
value.

When the commercial ferment is received, it should be stored in the refrigerator pending its
use so as to retard as much as possible the changes that naturally go on in the culture liquid.
Be careful that the bottle is not exposed to the influence of direct sunlight for in a transparent
medium the organisms may be readily killed by the disinfecting action of the sun's rays.

2. If a home-made starter is employed, use the greatest possible care in selecting the milk
that is to be used as a basis for the starter.

3. For the propagation and perpetuation of the starter from day to day, it is necessary that
the same should be grown in milk that is as germ-free as it is possible to secure it. For this
purpose sterilize some fresh skim-milk in a covered can that has previously been well steamed.
This can be done easily by setting cans containing skim-milk in a vat filled with water and
heating the same to 180° F. or above for one-half hour or more. Steam should not be introduced
directly. This process destroys all but a few of the most resistant spore-bearing organisms.
This will give a cooked flavor to the milk, but will not affect the cream to which the starter
is added. Dairy supply houses are now introducing the use of starter cans that are specially
made for this purpose.

4. After the heated milk is cooled down to about 70° or 80° F., it can be inoculated with the
desired culture. Sometimes it is desirable to "build up" the starter by propagating it first
in a smaller volume of milk, and then after this has developed, adding it to a larger amount.

This method is of particular value where a large amount of starter is needed for the cream-ripening.

5. After the milk has been inoculated, it should be kept at a temperature that is suitable
for the rapid development of the contained bacteria, 65°-75° F., which temperature should be
kept as uniform as possible.

This can best be done by setting the covered can in a vat filled with warm water. The starter
cans are often arranged so that temperature can be controlled by circulating water.

6. The starter should not be too thoroughly curdled when it is needed for use, but should be
well soured and only partially curdled for it is difficult to break up thoroughly the curd
particles if the starter is completely curdled. If these curd masses are added to ripening
cream, white specks may appear in the butter.

7. The vigor of the starter is in all probability stronger when the milk is on the point of
curdling than it is after the curd has been formed some time. The continued formation of lactic
acid kills many of the bacteria and thus weakens the fermentative action. It is therefore highly
important that the acidity of the starter should be closely watched.

8. Do not refrigerate the starter when it has reached the proper stage of development, as this
retards the bacterial growth in the same manner as cold weather checks the growth of grain.
It is preferable to dilute the starter, if it cannot be used when ready, with sufficient freshly
sterilized sweet milk to hold the acidity at the proper point and thus keep the bacteria in
the starter in a condition which will favor vigorous growth.

9. The starter should be propagated from day to day by adding a small quantity to a new lot
of freshly prepared milk. For this purpose two propagating cans should be provided so that
one starter may be in use while the other is being prepared.

~How long should a starter be propagated?~ No hard-and-fast rule can be given for this, for
it depends largely upon how carefully the starter is handled during its propagation. If the
starter is grown in sterilized milk kept in steamed vessels and is handled with sterile dippers,
it is possible to maintain it in a state of relative purity for a considerable period of time;
if, however, no especial care is given, it will soon become infected by the air, and the retention
of its purity will depend more upon the ability of the contained organism to choke out foreign
growths than upon any other factor. Experience seems to indicate that pure-culture starters
"run out" sooner than domestic starters. While it is possible, by bacteriological methods,
to determine with accuracy the actual condition of a starter as to its germ content, still
such methods are inapplicable in creamery practice. Here the maker must rely largely upon the
general appearance of the starter as determined by taste and smell. The supply houses that
deal in cultures of this class generally expect to supply a new culture at least every month.

~Bacteria in butter.~ As ripened cream is necessarily rich in bacteria, it follows that butter
will also contain germ life in varying amounts, but as butter-fat is not well adapted for bacterial
food, the number of germs in butter is usually less than in ripened cream.

Sweet-cream butter is naturally poorer in germ life than that made from ripened cream. Grotenfelt
reports in sweet-cream butter, the so-called "Paris butter," only a few bacteria while in acid
cream butter the germ content runs from scores to hundreds of thousands.

~Effect of bacteria in wash water.~ An important factor in contamination may be the wash water
that is used. Much carelessness often prevails regarding the location and drainage of the creamery
well, and if same becomes polluted with organic matter, bacterial growth goes on apace. Melick[170]
has made some interesting studies on using pasteurized and sterilized well waters for washing.
He found a direct relation to exist between the bacterial content of the wash water and the
keeping quality of the butter. Some creameries have tried filtered water but under ordinary
conditions a filter, unless it is tended to with great regularity, becomes a source of infection
rather than otherwise.

~Changes in germ content.~ The bacteria that are incorporated with the butter as it first "comes"
undergo a slight increase for the first few days. The duration of this period of increase is
dependent largely upon the condition of the butter. If the buttermilk is well worked out of
the butter, the increase is slight and lasts for a few days only, while the presence of so
nutritious a medium as buttermilk affords conditions much more favorable for the continued
growth of the organisms.

While there may be many varieties in butter when it is fresh, they are very soon reduced in
kind as well as number. The lactic acid group of organisms disappear quite rapidly; the spore-bearing
species remaining for a somewhat longer time. Butter examined after it is several months old
is often found to be almost free from germs.

In the manufacture of butter there is much that is dependent upon the mechanical processes
of churning, washing, salting and working the product. These processes do not involve any bacteriological
principles other than those that are incident to cleanliness. The cream, if ripened properly,
will contain such enormous numbers of favorable forms that the access of the few organisms
that are derived from the churn, the air, or the water in washing will have little effect,
unless the conditions are abnormal.

BACTERIAL DEFECTS IN BUTTER.

~Rancid change in butter.~ Fresh butter has a peculiar aroma that is very desirable and one
that enhances the market price, if it can be retained; but this delicate flavor is more or
less evanescent, soon disappearing, even in the best makes. While a good butter loses with
age some of the peculiar aroma that it possesses when first made, yet a gilt-edged product
should retain its good keeping qualities for some length of time. All butters, however, sooner
or later undergo a change that renders them worthless for table use. This change is usually
a rancidity that is observed in all stale products of this class. The cause of this rancid
condition in butter was at first attributed to the formation of butyric acid, but it is now
recognized that other changes also enter in.[171] Light and especially air also exert a marked
effect on the flavor of butter. Where butter is kept in small packages it is much more prone
to develop off flavors than when packed in large tubs. From the carefully executed experiments
of Jensen it appears that some of the molds as well as certain species of bacteria are able
to incite these changes. These organisms are common in the air and water and it therefore readily
follows that inoculation occurs.

Practically, rancidity is held in check by storing butter at low temperatures where germ growth
is quite suspended.

~Lack of flavor.~ Often this may be due to improper handling of the cream in not allowing it
to ripen far enough, but sometimes it is impossible to produce a high flavor. The lack of flavor
in this case is due to the absence of the proper flavor-producing organisms. This condition
can usually be overcome by the addition of a proper starter.

~Putrid butter.~ This specific butter trouble has been observed in Denmark, where it has been
studied by Jensen.[172] Butter affected by it rapidly acquires a peculiar putrid odor that
ruins it for table use. Sometimes, this flavor may be developed in the cream previous to churning.

Jensen found the trouble to be due to several different putrefactive bacteria. One form which
he called Bacillus foetidus lactis, a close ally of the common feces bacillus, produced this
rotten odor and taste in milk in a very short time. Fortunately, this organism was easily killed
by a comparatively low heat, so that pasteurization of the cream and use of a culture starter
quickly eliminated the trouble, where it was tried.

~Turnip-flavored butter.~ Butter sometimes acquires a peculiar flavor recalling the order of
turnips, rutabagas, and other root crops. Often this trouble is due to feeding, there being
in several of these crops, aromatic substances that pass directly into the milk, but in some
instances the trouble arises from bacteria that are able to produce decomposition products,[173]
the odor and taste of which strongly recalls these vegetables.

~"Cowy" butter.~ Frequently there is to be noted in milk a peculiar odor that resembles that
of the cow stable. Usually this defect in milk has been ascribed to the absorption of impure
gases by the milk as it cools, although the gases and odors naturally present in fresh milk
have this peculiar property that is demonstrable by certain methods of aeration. Occasionally
it is transmitted to butter, and recently Pammel[174] has isolated from butter a bacillus that
produced in milk the same peculiar odor so commonly present in stables.

~Lardy and tallowy butter.~ The presence of this unpleasant taste in butter may be due to a
variety of causes. In some instances, improper food seems to be the source of the trouble;
then again, butter exposed to direct sunlight bleaches in color and develops a lardy flavor.[175]
In addition to these, cases have been found in which the defect has been traced to the action
of bacteria. Storch[176] has described a lactic-acid form in a sample of tallowy butter that
was able to produce this disagreeable odor.

~Oily butter.~ Jensen has isolated one of the causes of the dreaded oily butter that is reported
quite frequently in Denmark. The specific organism that he found belongs to the sour-milk bacteria.
In twenty-four hours it curdles milk, the curd being solid like that of ordinary sour milk.
There is produced, however, in addition to this, an unpleasant odor and taste resembling that
of machine oil, a peculiarity that is transmitted directly to butter made from affected cream.

~Bitter butter.~ Now and then butter develops a bitter taste that may be due to a variety of
different bacterial forms. In most cases, the bitter flavor in the butter is derived primarily
from the bacteria present in the cream or milk. Several of the fermentations of this character
in milk are also to be found in butter. In addition to these defects produced by a biological
cause, bitter flavors in butter are sometimes produced by the milk being impregnated with volatile,
bitter substances derived from weeds.

~Moldy butter.~ This defect is perhaps the most serious because most common. It is produced
by the development of a number of different varieties of molds. The trouble appears most frequently
in packed butter on the outside of the mass of butter in contact with the tub. Mold spores
are so widely disseminated that if proper conditions are given for their germination, they
are almost sure to develop. In some cases the mold is due to the growth of the ordinary bread
mold, Penicillium glaucum; in other cases a black mold develops, due often to Cladosporium
butyri. Not infrequently trouble of this character is associated with the use of parchment
wrappers. The difficulty can easily be held in check by soaking the parchment linings and the
tubs in a strong brine, or paraffining the inside of the tub.

~Fishy butter.~ Considerable trouble has been experienced in Australian butter exported to
Europe in which a fishy flavor developed. It was noted that the production of this defect seemed
to be dependent upon the storage temperature at which the butter was kept. When the butter
was refrigerated at 15° F. no further difficulty was experienced. It is claimed that the cause
of this condition is due to the formation of trimethylamine (herring brine odor) due to the
growth of the mold fungus Oidium lactis, developing in combination with the lactic-acid bacteria.

A fishy taste is sometimes noted in canned butter. Rogers[177] has determined that this flavor
is caused by yeasts (Torula) which produce fat-splitting enzyms capable of producing this undesirable
change.

FOOTNOTES:

[153] Conn and Esten, Cent. f. Bakt., II Abt., 1901, 7:746.

[154] Tiemann, Milch Zeit., 23:701.

[155] Milch Zeit., 1889, p. 7; 1894, p. 624; 1895, p. 383.

[156] Dean, Ont. Agr. Coll., 1897, p. 66.

[157] Storch, Nogle, Unders. over Floed. Syrning, 1890.

[158] Conn, 6 Storrs Expt. Stat., 1893, p. 66.

[159] Conn, 9 Storrs Expt. Stat., 1896, p. 17.

[160] Weigmann, Milch Zeit., 1891, p. 793

[161] McDonnell, ü. Milchsäure Bakterien (Diss. Kiel, 1899), p. 43.

[162] Storch, Milch Zeit., 1890, p. 304.

[163] Conn, 9 Storrs Expt. Stat., 1896, p. 25.

[164] Milch Zeit., 1891, p. 122; 1894, p. 284; 1895, p. 56; 1896, p. 163.

[165] McKay, Bull. 32, Iowa Expt. Stat., p. 47

[166] Weigmann, Landw. Woch. f. Schl. Hol., No. 2, 1890.

[167] Weigmann, Cent. f. Bakt., II Abt., 3:497, 1897.

[168] At the National Creamery Buttermakers' Association for 1901, 193 out of 240 exhibitors
used starters. Of those that employed starters, nearly one-half used commercial cultures. There
was practically no difference in the average score of the two classes of starters, but those
using starters ranked nearly two points higher in flavor than those that did not.

[169] Russell, Bull. 143, Wis. Expt. Stat., Feb. 1907.

[170] Melick, Bull. 138, Kansas Expt. Stat., June 1906.

[171] Reinmann, Cent. f. Bakt., 1900, 6:131; Jensen, Landw. Jahr. d. Schweiz, 1901.

[172] Jensen, Cent. f. Bakt., 1891, 11:409.

[173] Jensen, Milch Zeit., 1892, 6, Nos. 5 and 6.

[174] Pammel, Bull. 21, Iowa Expt. Stat., p. 803.

[175] Fischer, Hyg. Rund., 5:573.

[176] Storch, 18 Rept. Danish Agric. Expt. Stat., 1890.

[177] Rogers Bull. 57, B. A. I. U. S. Dept Agric., 1904.

CHAPTER VIII.

BACTERIA IN CHEESE.

The art of cheese-making, like all other phases of dairying, has been developed mainly as a
result of empirical methods. Within the last decade or so, the subject has received more attention
from the scientific point of view and the underlying causes determined to some extent. Since
the subject has been investigated from the bacteriological point of view, much light has been
thrown on the cause of many changes that were heretofore inexplicable. Our knowledge, as yet,
is quite meager, but enough has already been determined to indicate that the whole industry
is largely based on the phenomena of ferment action, and that the application of bacteriological
principles and ideas is sure to yield more than ordinary results, in explaining, in a rational
way, the reasons underlying many of the processes to be observed in this industry.

The problem of good milk is a vital one in any phase of dairy activity, but it is pre-eminently
so in cheese-making, for the ability to make a first-class product depends to a large extent
on the quality of the raw material. Cheese contains so large a proportion of nitrogenous constituents
that it is admirably suited, as a food medium, to the development of bacteria; much better,
in fact, than butter.

INFLUENCE OF BACTERIA IN NORMAL CHEESE PROCESSES.

In the manufacture of cheddar cheese bacteria exert a marked influence in the initial stages
of the process. To produce the proper texture that characterizes cheddar cheese, it is necessary
to develop a certain amount of acid which acts upon the casein. This acidity is measured by
the development of the lactic-acid bacteria that normally abound in the milk; or, as the cheese-maker
expresses it, the milk is "ripened" to the proper point. The action of the rennet, which is
added to precipitate the casein of the milk, is markedly affected by the amount of acid present,
as well as the temperature. Hence it is desirable to have a standard amount of acidity as well
as a standard temperature for coagulation, so as to unify conditions. It frequently happens
that the milk is abnormal with reference to its bacterial content, on account of the absence
of the proper lactic bacteria, or the presence of forms capable of producing fermentative changes
of an undesirable character. In such cases the maker attempts to overcome the effect of the
unwelcome bacteria by adding a "starter;" or he must vary his method of manufacture to some
extent to meet these new conditions.

~Use of starters.~ A starter may be employed to hasten the ripening of milk that is extremely
sweet, so as to curtail the time necessary to get the cheese to press; or it may be used to
overcome the effect of abnormal conditions.

The starter that is employed is generally one of domestic origin, and is usually taken from
skim milk that has been allowed to ferment and sour under carefully controlled conditions.
Of course much depends upon the quality of the starter, and in a natural starter there is always
the possibility that it may not be perfectly pure.

Within recent years the attempt has been made to control the effect of the starter more thoroughly
by using pure cultures of some desirable lactic-acid form.[178] This has rendered the making
of cheese not only more uniform, but has aided in repressing abnormal fermentations particularly
those that are characterized by the production of gas.

Recently, pure cultures of Adametz's B. nobilis, a digesting organism that is claimed to be
the cause of the breaking down of the casein and also of the peculiar aroma of Emmenthaler
cheese, has been placed on the market under the name Tyrogen. It is claimed that the use of
this starter, which is added directly to the milk and also rubbed on the surface of the cheese,
results in the improvement of the curds, assists in the development of the proper holes, imparts
a favorable aroma and hastens ripening.[179]

Campbell[180] states that the discoloration of cheese in England, which is due to the formation
of white spots that are produced by the bleaching of the coloring matter in the cheese, may
be overcome by the use of lactic-acid starters.

The use of stringy or slimy whey has been advocated in Holland for some years as a means of
overcoming the tendency toward gas formation in Edam cheese which is made from practically
sweet milk. This fermentation, the essential feature of which is produced by a culture of Streptococcus
Hollandicus,[181] develops acid in a marked degree, thereby inhibiting the production of gas.

The use of masses of moldy bread in directing the fermentation of Roquefort cheese is another
illustration of the empirical development of starters, although in this instance it is added
after the curds have been prepared for the press.

~Pasteurizing milk for cheese-making.~ If it were possible to use properly pasteurized milk
in cheese-making, then practically all abnormal conditions could be controlled by the use of
properly selected starters. Numerous attempts have been made to perfect this system with reference
to cheddar cheese, but so far they have been attended with imperfect success. The reason for
this is that in pasteurizing milk, the soluble lime salts are precipitated by the action of
heat, and under these conditions rennet extract does not curdle the casein in a normal manner.
This condition can be restored, in part at least, by the addition of soluble lime salts, such
as calcium chlorid; but in our experience, desirable results were not obtained where heated
milks to which this calcium solution had been added were made into cheddar cheese. Considerable
experience has been gained in the use of heated milks in the manufacture of certain types of
foreign cheese. Klein[182] finds that Brick cheese can be successfully made even where the
milk is heated as high as 185° F. An increased weight is secured by the addition of the coagulated
albumin and also increased moisture.

~Bacteria in rennet.~ In the use of natural rennets, such as are frequently employed in the
making of Swiss cheese, considerable numbers of bacteria are added to the milk. Although these
rennets are preserved in salt, alcohol or boric acid, they are never free from bacteria. Adametz[183]
found ten different species and from 640,000 to 900,000 bacteria per cc. in natural rennets.
Freudenreich has shown that rennet extract solutions can be used in Swiss cheese-making quite
as well as natural rennets; but to secure the best results, a small quantity of pure lactic
ferment must be added to simulate the conditions that prevail when natural rennets are soaked
in whey, which, it must be remembered, is a fluid rich in bacterial life.

Where rennet extract or tablets are used, as is generally the case in cheddar making, the number
of bacteria added is so infinitesimal as to be negligible.

~Development of acid.~ In the manufacture of cheddar cheese, the development of acid exerts
an important influence on the character of the product. This is brought about by holding the
curds at temperatures favorable to the growth of the bacteria in the same. Under these conditions
the lactic-acid organisms, which usually predominate, develop very rapidly, producing thereby
considerable quantities of acid which change materially the texture of the curds. The lactic
acid acts upon the casein in solutions containing salt, causing it to dissolve to some extent,
thus forming the initial compounds of digestion.[184] This solution of the casein is expressed
physically by the "stringing" of the curds on a hot iron. This causes the curds to mat, producing
a close, solid body, free from mechanical holes. Still further, the development of this acid
is necessary for the digestive activity of the pepsin in the rennet extract.

In some varieties of cheese, as the Swiss, acid is not developed and the character of the cheese
is much different from that of cheddar. In all such varieties, a great deal more trouble is
experienced from the production of "gassy" curds, because the development of the gas-producing
bacteria is held in check by the rapid growth of the lactic acid-producing species.

~Bacteria in green cheese.~ The conditions under which cheese is made permit of the development
of bacteria throughout the entire process. The cooking or heating of curds to expel the excessive
moisture is never so high as to be fatal to germ life; on the contrary, the acidity of the
curd and whey is continually increased by the development of bacteria in the same.

The body of green cheese fresh from the press is, to a considerable extent, dependent upon
the acid produced in the curds. If the curds are put to press in a relatively sweet condition
the texture is open and porous. The curd particles do not mat closely together and "mechanical
holes," rough and irregular in outline, occur. Very often, at relatively high temperatures,
such cheese begin to "huff," soon after being taken from the press, a condition due to the
development of gas, produced by gas-generating bacteria acting on the sugar in the curd. This
gas finds its way readily into these ragged holes, greatly distending them, as in Fig. 30.

~Physical changes in ripening cheese.~ When a green cheese is taken from the press, the curd
is tough, firm, but elastic. It has no value as a food product for immediate use, because it
lacks a desirable flavor and is not readily digestible. It is nothing but precipitated casein
and fat. In a short time, a deep-seated change occurs. Physically this change is demonstrated
in the modification that the curd undergoes. Gradually it breaks down and becomes plastic,
the elastic, tough curd being changed into a softened mass. This change in texture of the cheese
is also accompanied by a marked change in flavor. The green cheese has no distinctively cheese
flavor, but in course of time, with the gradual change of texture, the peculiar flavor incident
to ripe cheese is developed.

The characteristic texture and flavor are susceptible of considerable modification that is
induced not only by variation in methods of manufacture, but by the conditions under which
the cheese are cured. The amount of moisture incorporated with the curd materially affects
the physical appearance of the cheese, and the rate of change in the same. The ripening temperature,
likewise the moisture content of the surrounding air, also exerts a marked influence on the
physical properties of the cheese. To some extent the action of these forces is purely physical,
as in the gradual loss by drying, but in other respects they are associated with chemical transformations.

~Chemical changes in ripening cheese.~ Coincident with the physical breaking down of the curd
comes a change in the chemical nature of the casein. The hitherto insoluble casein is gradually
transformed into soluble nitrogenous substances (caseone of Duclaux, or caseogluten of Weigmann).
This chemical phenomenon is a breaking-down process that is analogous to the peptonization
of proteids, although in addition to the peptones and albumoses characteristic of peptic digestion,
amido-acids and ammonia are to be found. The quantity of these lower products increases with
the age of the cheese.

The chemical reaction of cheese is normally acid to phenolphthalein, although there is generally
no free acid, as shown by Congo red, the lactic acid being converted into salts as fast as
formed. In very old cheese, undergoing putrefactive changes, especially on the outside, an
alkaline reaction may be present, due to the formation of free ammonia.

The changes that occur in a ripening cheese are for the most part confined to the proteids.
According to most investigators the fat remains practically unchanged, although the researches
of Weigmann and Backe[185] show that fatty acids are formed from the fat. In the green cheese
considerable milk-sugar is present, but, as a result of the fermentation that occurs, this
is rapidly converted into acid products.

~Bacterial flora of cheese.~ It might naturally be expected that the green cheese, fresh from
the press, would contain practically the same kind of bacteria that are in the milk, but a
study of cheese shows a peculiar change in the character of the flora. In the first place,
fresh cottage cheese, made by the coagulation of the casein through the action of acid, has
a more diversified flora than cheese made with rennet, for the reason, as given by Lafar,[186]
that the fermentative process is farther advanced.

When different varieties of cheese are made from milk in the same locality, the germ content
of even the ripened product has a marked similarity, as is illustrated by Adametz's work[187]
on Emmenthaler or Swiss hard cheese, and Schweitzer Hauskäse, a soft variety. Of the nine species
of bacilli and cocci found in mature Emmenthaler, eight of them were also present in ripened
Hauskäse.

Different investigators have studied the bacterial flora of various kinds of cheese, but as
yet little comparative systematic work has been done. Freudenreich[188] has determined the
character and number of bacteria in Emmenthaler cheese, and Russell[189] the same for cheddar
cheese. The same general law has also been noted in Canadian[190] and English[191] cheese.
At first a marked decrease in numbers is usually noted, lasting for a day or two. This is followed
by an enormous increase, caused by the rapid growth of the lactic-acid type. The development
may reach scores of millions and often over a hundred million organisms per gram. Synchronous
with this increase, the peptonizing and gas-producing bacteria gradually disappear. This rapid
development, which lasts only for a few weeks, is followed by a general decline.

In the ripening of cheese a question arises as to whether the process goes on throughout the
entire mass of cheese, or whether it is more active at or near the surface. In the case of
many of the soft cheese, such as Brie and limburger, bacterial and mold development is exceedingly
active on the exterior, and the enzyms secreted by these organisms diffuse toward the interior.
That such a condition occurs in the hard type of cheese made with rennet is extremely improbable.
Most observers agree that in this type of cheese the ripening progresses throughout the entire
mass, although Adametz opposes this view and considers that in Emmenthaler cheese the development
of the specific aroma-producing organism occurs in the superficial layers. Jensen has shown,
however, that the greatest amount of soluble nitrogenous products are to be found in the innermost
part of the cheese, a condition that is not reconcilable with the view that the most active
ripening is on the exterior.[192]

The course of development of bacteria in cheddar cheese is materially influenced by the ripening
temperature. In cheese ripened at relatively low temperatures (50°-55° F.),[193] a high germ
content is maintained for a much longer period of time than at higher temperatures. Under these
conditions the lactic-acid type continues in the ascendancy as usual. In cheese cured at high
temperatures (80°-86° F.) the number of organisms is greatly diminished, and they fail to persist
in appreciable numbers for as long a time as in cheese cured at temperatures more frequently
employed.

~Influence of temperature on curing.~ Temperature exerts a most potent influence on the quality
of the cheese, as determined not only by the rate of ripening but the nature of the process
itself. Much of the poor quality of cheese is attributable to the effect of improper curing
conditions. Probably in the initial stage of this industry cheese were allowed to ripen without
any sort of control, with the inevitable result that during the summer months the temperature
generally fluctuated so much as to impair seriously the quality. The effect of high temperatures
(70° F. and above) is to produce a rapid curing, and, therefore, a short lived cheese; also
a sharp, strong flavor, and generally a more or less open texture. Unless the cheese is made
from the best quality of milk, it is very apt to undergo abnormal fermentations, more especially
those of a gassy character.

Where cheese is ripened at low temperatures, ranging from 50° F. down to nearly the freezing
temperatures, it is found that the quality is greatly improved.[194] Such cheese are thoroughly
broken down from a physical point of view even though they may not show such a high per cent
of soluble nitrogenous products. They have an excellent texture, generally solid and firm,
free from all tendency to openness; and, moreover, their flavor is clean and entirely devoid
of the sharp, undesirable tang that so frequently appears in old cheese. The keeping quality
of such cheese is much superior to the ordinary product. The introduction of this new system
of cheese-curing promises much from a practical point of view, and undoubtedly a more complete
study of the subject from a scientific point of view will aid materially in unraveling some
of the problems as to flavor production.

~Theories of cheese curing.~ Within the last few years considerable study has been given the
subject of cheese curing or ripening, in order to explain how this physical and chemical transformation
is brought about.

Much of the misconception that has arisen relative to the cause of cheese ripening comes from
a confusion of terms. In the ordinary use of the word, ripening or curing of cheese is intended
to signify the sum total of all the changes that result in converting the green product as
it comes from the press into the edible substance that is known as cured cheese. As previously
shown, the most marked chemical transformation that occurs is that which has to do with the
peptonization or breaking down of the casein. It is true that under ordinary conditions this
decomposition process is also accompanied with the formation of certain flavor-producing substances,
more or less aromatic in character; but it by no means follows that these two processes are
necessarily due to the same cause. The majority of investigators have failed to consider these
two questions of casein decomposition and flavor as independent, or at least as not necessarily
related. They are undoubtedly closely bound together, but it will be shown later that the problems
are quite different and possibly susceptible of more thorough understanding when considered
separately.

In the earlier theories of cheese ripening it was thought to be purely a chemical change, but,
with the growth of bacteriological science, evidence was forthcoming that seemed to indicate
that the activity of organisms entered into the problem. Schaffer[195] showed that if milk
was boiled and made into cheese, the casein failed to break down. Adametz[196] added to green
cheese various disinfectants, as creolin and thymol, and found that this practically stopped
the curing process. From these experiments he drew the conclusion that bacteria must be the
cause of the change, because these organisms were killed; but when it is considered that such
treatment would also destroy the activity of enzyms as well as vital ferments, it is evident
that these experiments were quite indecisive.

A determination of the nature of the by-products found in maturing cheese indicates that the
general character of the ripening change is a peptonization or digestion of the casein.

Until recently the most widely accepted views relating to the cause of this change have been
those which ascribed the transformation to the activity of micro-organisms, although concerning
the nature of these organisms there has been no unanimity of opinion. The overwhelming development
of bacteria in all cheeses naturally gave support to this view; and such experiments as detailed
above strengthened the idea that the casein transformation could not occur where these ferment
organisms were destroyed.

The very nature of the changes produced in the casein signified that to take part in this process
any organism must possess the property of dissolving the proteid molecule, casein, and forming
therefrom by-products that are most generally found in other digestive or peptonizing changes
of this class.

~Digestive bacterial theory.~ The first theory propounded was that of Duclaux,[197] who in
1887 advanced the idea that this change was due to that type of bacteria which is able to liquefy
gelatin, peptonize milk, and cause a hydrolytic change in proteids. To this widely-spread group
that he found in cheese, he gave the generic name Tyrothrix (cheese hairs). According to him,
these organisms do not function directly as ripening agents, but they secrete an enzym or unorganized
ferment to which he applies the name casease. This ferment acts upon the casein of milk, converting
it into a soluble product known as caseone. These organisms are found in normal milk, and if
they function as casein transformers, one would naturally expect them to be present, at least
frequently, if not predominating in the ripening cheese; but such is not the case. In typical
cheddar or Swiss cheese, they rapidly disappear (p. 168), although in the moister, softer varieties,
they persist for considerable periods of time. According to Freudenreich, even where these
organisms are added in large numbers to the curd, they soon perish, an observation that is
not regarded as correct by the later adherents to the digestive bacterial theory, as Adametz
and Winkler.

Duclaux's experiments were made with liquid media for isolation purposes, and his work, therefore,
cannot be regarded as satisfactory as that carried out with more modern technical methods.
Recently this theory has been revived by Adametz,[198] who claims to have found in Emmenthaler
cheese a digesting species, one of the Tyrothrix type, which is capable of peptonizing the
casein and at the same time producing the characteristic flavor of this class of cheese. This
organism, called by him Bacillus nobilis, the Edelpilz of Emmenthaler cheese, has been subjected
to comparative experiments, and in the cheese made with pure cultures of this germ better results
are claimed to have been secured. Sufficient experiments have not as yet been reported by other
investigators to warrant the acceptance of the claims made relative to the effect of this organism.

~Lactic-acid bacterial theory.~ It has already been shown that the lactic-acid bacteria seems
to find in the green cheese the optimum conditions of development; that they increase enormously
in numbers for a short period, and then finally decline. This marked development, coincident
with the breaking down of the casein, has led to the view which has been so ably expounded
by Freudenreich[199] that this type of bacterial action is concerned in the ripening of cheese.
This group of bacteria is, under ordinary conditions, unable to liquefy gelatin, or digest
milk, or, in fact, to exert, under ordinary conditions, any proteolytic or peptonizing properties.
This has been the stumbling-block to the acceptance of this hypothesis, as an explanation of
the breaking down of the casein. Freudenreich has recently carried on experiments which he
believes solve the problem. By growing cultures of these organisms in milk, to which sterile,
freshly precipitated chalk had been added, he was able to prolong the development of bacteria
for a considerable period of time, and as a result finds that an appreciable part of the casein
is digested; but this action is so slow compared with what normally occurs in a cheese, that
exception may well be taken to this type of experiment alone. Weigmann[200] inclines to the
view that the lactic-acid bacteria are not the true cause of the peptonizing process, but that
their development prepares the soil, as it were, for those forms that are more directly concerned
in the peptonizing process. This they do by developing an acid substratum that renders possible
the more luxuriant growth of the aroma-producing species. According to Gorini,[201] certain
of the Tyrothrix forms function at high temperatures as lactic acid producing bacteria, while
at lower temperatures they act as peptonizers. On this basis he seeks to reconcile the discrepancies
that appear in the experiments of other investigators.

~Digestive milk enzym theory.~ In 1897 Babcock and the writer[202] showed that milk underwent
digestive changes spontaneously when bacterial activity was suspended by the addition of such
anaesthetics as ether, chloroform and benzol. The chemical nature of the by-products produced
by this auto-digestion of milk resembles quite closely those found in ripened cheese, except
that ammonia is not produced as is the case in old cheese. The cause of the decomposition of
the casein, they found to be due to the action of a milk enzym which is inherent to the milk
itself. This digestive ferment may be separated from fresh milk by concentrating centrifuge
slime extracts by the usual physiological reagents. This ferment, called by them galactase,
on account of its origin in milk, is a proteolytic enzym of the tryptic type. Its activity
is destroyed by strong chemicals such as formaldehyde, corrosive sublimate, also when heated
to 175° F. or above. When such extracts are added to boiled milk, the digestive process is
started anew, and the by-products produced are very similar to those noted in a normal cheese.

Jensen[203] has also shown that the addition of pancreatic extracts to cheese accelerated the
formation of soluble nitrogenous products.

The action of galactase in milk and cheese has been confirmed by Freudenreich[204] and Jensen,[205]
as well as by American investigators, and this enzym is now generally accepted as one of the
factors concerned in the decomposition of the casein. Freudenreich believes it is able to change
casein into albumose and peptones, but that the lactic-acid bacteria are chiefly responsible
for the further decomposition of the nitrogen to amid form.

Failure before to recognize the presence of galactase in milk is attributable to the fact that
all attempts to secure sterile milk had been made by heating the same, in which case galactase
was necessarily destroyed. A brief exposure at 176° F. is sufficient to destroy its activity,
and even an exposure at lower temperatures weakens its action considerably, especially if the
reaction of the medium is acid. This undoubtedly explains the contradictory results obtained
in the ripening of cheese from pasteurized milk, such cheese occasionally breaking down in
an abnormal manner.

The results mentioned on page 172, in which cheese failed to ripen when treated with disinfectants,--experiments
which were supposed at that time to be the foundation of the bacterial theory of casein digestion--are
now explicable on an entirely different basis. In these cases the casein was not peptonized,
because these strong disinfectants destroyed the activity of the enzyms as well as the bacteria.

Another important factor in the breaking down of the casein is the pepsin in the rennet extract.
The digestive influence of this agent was first demonstrated for cheddar cheese by Babcock,
Russell and Vivian,[206] and simultaneously, although independently, by Jensen[207] in Emmenthaler
cheese. In this digestive action, only albumoses and higher peptones are produced. The activity
of pepsin does not become manifest until there is about 0.3 per cent. acid which is approximately
the amount developed in the cheddar process. These two factors undoubtedly account for by far
the larger proportion of the changes in the casein; and yet, the formation of ammonia in well
ripened cheese is not accounted for by these factors. This by-product is the main end product
of proteid digestion by the liquefying bacteria but their apparent infrequency in cheese makes
it difficult to understand how they can function prominently in the change, unless the small
quantity of digestive enzyms excreted by them in their growth in milk is capable of continuing
its action until a cumulative effect is obtained. Although much light has been thrown on this
question by the researches of the last few years, the matter is far from being satisfactorily
settled at the present time and the subject needs much more critical work. If liquefying bacteria
abound in the milk, doubtless they exert some action, but the rôle of bacteria is doubtless
much greater in the production of flavor than in the decomposition of the curd.

~Conditions determining quality.~ In determining the quality of cheese, several factors are
to be taken into consideration. First and foremost is the flavor, which determines more than
anything else the value of the product. This should be mild and pleasant, although with age
the intensity of the same generally increases but at no time should it have any bitter, sour,
or otherwise undesirable taste or aroma. Texture registers more accurately the physical nature
of the ripening. The cheese should not be curdy and harsh, but should yield quite readily to
pressure under the thumb, becoming on manipulation waxy and plastic instead of crumbly or mealy.
Body refers to the openness or closeness of the curd particles, a close, compact mass being
most desirable. The color of cheese should be even, not wavy, streaked or bleached.

For a cheese to possess all of these characteristics in an optimum degree is to be perfect
in every respect--a condition that is rarely reached.

So many factors influence this condition that the problem of making a perfect cheese becomes
exceedingly difficult. Not only must the quality of the milk--the raw material to be used in
the manufacture--be perfectly satisfactory, but the factory management while the curds are
in the vat demands great skill and careful attention; and finally, the long period of curing
in which variation in temperature or moisture conditions may seriously affect the quality,--all
of these stages, more or less critical, must be successfully gone through, before the product
reaches its highest state of development.

It is of course true that many phases of this complex series of processes have no direct relation
to bacteria, yet it frequently happens that the result attained is influenced at some preceding
stage by the action of bacteria in one way or another. Thus the influence of the acidity developed
in the curds is felt throughout the whole life of the cheese, an over-development of lactic-acid
bacteria producing a sour condition that leaves its impress not only on flavor but texture.
An insufficient development of acid fails to soften the curd-particles so as to permit of close
matting, the consequence being that the body of the cheese remains loose and open, a condition
favorable to the development of gas-generating organisms.

~Production of flavor.~ The importance of flavor as determining the quality of cheese makes
it imperative that the nature of the substances that confer on cheese its peculiar aromatic
qualities and taste be thoroughly understood. It is to be regretted that the results obtained
so far are not more satisfactory, for improvement in technique is hardly to be expected until
the reason for the process is thoroughly understood.

The view that is most generally accepted is that this most important phase of cheese curing
is dependent upon bacterial activity, but the organisms that are concerned in this process
have not as yet been satisfactorily determined. In a number of cases, different species of
bacteria have been separated from milk and cheese that have the power of producing aromatic
compounds that resemble, in some cases, the peculiar flavors and odors that characterize some
of the foreign kinds of cheese; but an introduction of these into curd has not resulted in
the production of the peculiar variety, even though the methods of manufacture and curing were
closely followed. The similarity in germ content in different varieties of cheese made in the
same locality has perhaps a bearing on this question of flavor as related to bacteria. Of the
nine different species of bacteria found in Emmenthaler cheese by Adametz, eight of them were
also present in ripened Hauskäse. If specific flavors are solely the result of specific bacterial
action, it might naturally be expected that the character of the flora would differ.

Some suggestive experiments were made by Babcock and Russell on the question of flavor as related
to bacterial growth, by changing the nature of the environment in cheese by washing the curds
on the racks with warm water. In this way the sugar and most of the ash were removed. Under
such conditions the character of the bacterial flora was materially modified. While the liquefying
type of bacteria was very sparse in normal cheddar, they developed luxuriantly in the washed
cheese. The flavor at the same time was markedly affected. The control cheddar was of good
quality, while that made from the washed curds was decidedly off, and in the course of ripening
became vile. It may be these two results are simply coincidences, but other data[208] bear
out the view that the flavor was to some extent related to the nature of the bacteria developing
in the cheese. This was strengthened materially by adding different sugars to washed curds,
in which case it was found that the flavor was much improved, while the more normal lactic-acid
type of bacteria again became predominant.

~Ripening of moldy cheese.~ In a number of foreign cheeses, the peculiar flavor obtained is
in part due to the action of various fungi which grow in the cheese, and there produce certain
by-products that flavor the cheese. Among the most important of these are the Roquefort cheese
of France, Stilton of England, and Gorgonzola of Italy.

Roquefort cheese is made from goat's or cow's milk, and in order to introduce the desired mold,
which is the ordinary bread-mold, Penicillium glaucum, carefully-prepared moldy bread-crumbs
are added to the curd.

At ordinary temperatures this organism develops too rapidly, so that the cheese to ripen properly
must be kept at a low temperature. The town of Roquefort is situated in a limestone country,
in a region full of caves, and it is in these natural caves that most of the ripening is done.
These caverns are always very moist and have a temperature ranging from 35° to 44° F., so that
the growth of the fungus is retarded considerably. The spread of the mold throughout the ripening
mass is also assisted in a mechanical way. The partially-matured cheese are run through a machine
that pricks them full of small holes. These slender canals allow the mold organism to penetrate
the whole mass more thoroughly, the moldy straw matting upon which the ripening cheese are
placed helping to furnish an abundant seeding of the desired germ.

When new factories are constructed it is of advantage to introduce this necessary germ in quantities,
and the practice is sometimes followed of rubbing the walls and cellars of the new location
with material taken from the old established factory. In this custom, developed in purely an
empirical manner, is to be seen a striking illustration of a bacteriological process crudely
carried out.

In the Stilton cheese, one of the highly prized moldy cheeses of England, the desired mold
fungus is introduced into the green cheese by exchanging plugs taken with a cheese trier from
a ripe Stilton.

~Ripening of soft cheese.~ The type of ripening which takes place in the soft cheeses is materially
different from that which occurs in the hard type. The peptonizing action does not go on uniformly
throughout the cheese, but is hastened by the development of molds and bacteria on the outside
that exert a solvent action on the casein. For this reason, soft cheeses are usually made up
in small sizes, so that this action may be hastened. The organisms that take part in this process
are those that are able to form enzyms (similar in their action to trypsin, galactase, etc.),
and these soluble ferments gradually diffuse from the outside through the cheese.

Most of these peptonizing bacteria are hindered in their growth by the presence of lactic acid,
so that in many cases the appearance of the digesting organisms on the surface is delayed until
the acidity of the mass is reduced to the proper point by the development of other organisms,
principally molds, which prefer an acid substratum for their growth.

In Brie cheese a blue coating of mold develops on the surface. In the course of a few weeks,
a white felting appears which later changes to red. This slimy coat below the mold layer is
made up of diverse species of bacteria and fungi that are able to grow after the acid is reduced
by the blue mold. The organisms in the red slimy coat act upon the casein, producing an alkaline
reaction that is unfavorable to the growth of the blue mold. Two sets of organisms are, therefore
essential in the ripening process, one preparing the soil for the ferment that later produces
the requisite ripening changes. As ordinarily carried on, the process is an empirical one,
and if the red coat does not develop as expected, the maker resorts to all kinds of devices
to bring out the desired ferment. The appearance of the right form is dependent, however, upon
the proper reaction of the cheese, and if this is not suitable, the wished-for growth will
not appear.

INFLUENCE OF BACTERIA IN ABNORMAL CHEESE PROCESSES.

The reason why cheese is more subject to abnormal fermentation than butter is because its high
nitrogen content favors the continued development of bacteria for some time after it is made.
It must be borne in mind, in considering the more important of these changes, that not all
defective conditions in cheese are attributable to the influence of living organisms. Troubles
frequently arise from errors in manufacturing details, as too prolonged cooking of curds, too
high heating, or the development of insufficient or too much acid. Then again, the production
of undesirable flavors or impairment in texture may arise from imperfect curing conditions.

Our knowledge regarding the exact nature of these indefinite faults is as yet too inadequate
to enable many of these undesirable conditions to be traced to their proper source; but in
many cases the taints observed in a factory are due to the abnormal development of certain
bacteria, capable of evolving unpleasant or even putrid odors. Most of them are seeded in the
milk before it comes to the factory and are due to careless manipulation of the milk while
it is still on the farm. Others gain access to the milk in the factory, owing to unclean conditions
of one sort or another. Sometimes the cheese-maker is able to overcome these taints by vigorous
treatment, but often they pass on into the cheese, only to detract from the market value of
the product. Most frequently these "off" flavors appear in cheese that are cured at too high
temperatures, say above 65° F.

~"Gassy" fermentations in cheese.~ One of the worst and at the same time most common troubles
in cheese-making is where the cheese undergoes a fermentation marked by the evolution of gas.
The presence of gas is recognized by the appearance either of spherical or lens-shaped holes
of various sizes in the green cheese; often they appear in the curd before it is put to press.
Usually in this condition the curds look as if they had been punctured with a pin, and are
known as "pin holey" curds. Where the gas holes are larger, they are known as "Swiss holes"
from their resemblance to the normal holes in the Swiss product. If the development of gas
is abundant, these holes are restricted in size. Often the formation of gas may be so intense
as to cause the curds to float on the surface of the whey before they are removed. Such curds
are known as "floaters" or "bloaters."

If "gassy" curds are put to press, the abnormal fermentation may continue. The further production
of gas causes the green cheese to "huff" or swell, until it may be considerably distorted as
in Fig. 33. In such cases the texture of the cheese is greatly injured, and the flavor is generally
impaired.

Such abnormal changes may occur at any season of the year, but the trouble is most common in
summer, especially in the latter part.

This defect is less likely to occur in cheese that is well cheddared than in sweet curd cheese.
When acidity is produced, these gassy fermentations are checked, and in good cheddar the body
is so close and firm as not readily to permit of gaseous changes.

In Swiss cheese, which is essentially a sweet curd cheese, these fermentations are very troublesome.
Where large holes are formed in abundance (blähen), the trouble reaches its maximum. If the
gas holes are very numerous and therefore small it is called a "nissler." Sometimes the normal
"eyes" are even wanting when it is said to be "blind" or a "gläsler."

One method of procedure which is likely to cause trouble in Swiss factories is often produced
by the use of sour, fermented whey in which to soak the natural rennets. Freudenreich and Steinegger[209]
have shown that a much more uniform quality of cheese can be made with rennet extract if it
is prepared with a starter made from a pure lactic ferment.

The cause of the difficulty has long been charged to various sources, such as a lack of aeration,
improper feeding, retention of animal gases, etc., but in all these cases it was nothing more
than a surmise. Very often the milk does not betray any visible symptom of fermentation when
received, and the trouble is not to be recognized until the process of cheese-making is well
advanced.

Studies from a biological standpoint have, however, thrown much light on this troublesome problem;
and it is now known that the formation of gas, either in the curd or after it has been put
to press, is due entirely to the breaking down of certain elements, such as the sugar of milk,
due to the influence of various living germs. This trouble is, then, a type fermentation, and
is, therefore, much more widely distributed than it would be if it was caused by a single specific
organism. These gas-producing organisms are to be found, sparingly at least, in almost all
milks, but are normally held in check by the ordinary lactic species. Among them are a large
number of the bacteria, although yeasts and allied germs are often present and are likewise
able to set up fermentative changes of this sort. In these cases the milk-sugar is decomposed
in such a way as to give off CO{2} and H, and in some cases, alcohol. Russell and Hastings[210]
found a lactose-splitting yeast in a severe outbreak of gassy cheese in a Swiss factory. In
this case the gas did not develop until the cheese were a few weeks old. In severe cases the
cheese actually cracked to pieces.

According to Guillebeau, a close relation exists between those germs that are able to produce
an infectious inflammation (mastitis) in the udder of the cow and some forms capable of gas
evolution.

If pure cultures of these gas-producing bacteria are added to perfectly sweet milk, it is possible
to artificially produce the conditions in cheese that so frequently appear in practice.

~Treatment of "pin-holey" curds.~ When this type of fermentation appears during the manufacture
of the cheese, the maker can control it in part within certain limits. These methods of treatment
are, as a rule, purely mechanical, as when the curds are piled and turned, and subsequently
ground in a curd mill. After the gas has been forced out, the curds are then put to press and
the whole mats into a compact mass.

Another method of treatment based upon bacteriological principles is the addition of a starter
to induce the formation of acid. Where acid is developed as a result of the growth of the lactic-acid
bacteria, the gas-producing species do not readily thrive. Another reason why acid aids in
repressing the development of gas is that the curd particles are partially softened or digested
by the action of the acid. This causes them to mat together more closely, and there is not
left in the cheese the irregular mechanical openings in which the developing gas may find lodgment.

Another method that is also useful with these curds is to employ salt. This represses gaseous
fermentations, and the use of more salt than usual in making the cheese will very often restrain
the production of gas. Tendency to form gas in Edam cheese is controlled by the addition of
a starter prepared from slimy whey (lange wei) which is caused by the development of an acid-forming
organism.

Some have recommended the custom of washing the curds to remove the whey and the gas-producing
bacteria contained therein. Care must be taken not to carry this too far, for the removal of
the sugar permits taint-producing organisms to thrive.[211]

The temperature at which the cheese is cured also materially affects the development of gas.
At high curing temperatures, gas-producing organisms develop rapidly; therefore more trouble
is experienced in summer than at other seasons.

If milks which are prone to undergo "gassy" development are excluded from the general supply,
it would be possible to eliminate the source of the entire trouble. To aid in the early recognition
of such milks that are not apparently affected when brought to the factory, fermentation or
curd tests (p. 76) are of great value. The use of this test in the hands of the factory operator
often enables him to detect the exact source of the trouble, which may frequently be confined
to the milk delivered by a single patron.

~"Fruity" or "sweet" flavor.~ Not infrequently the product of a factory may acquire during
the process of ripening what is known as a "sweet" or "fruity" flavor. This flavor resembles
the odor of fermented fruit or the bouquet of certain kinds of wine. It has been noted in widely
different sections of the country and its presence bears no relation to the other qualities
of the cheese. The cause of this trouble has recently been traced[212] to the presence of various
kinds of yeasts. Ordinarily yeasts are rarely present in good cheese, but in cheese affected
with this trouble they abound. The addition of starters made from yeast cultures resulted in
the production of the undesirable condition.

~Mottled cheese.~ The color of cheese is sometimes cut to that extent that the cheese presents
a wavy or mottled appearance. This condition is apt to appear if the ripening temperature is
somewhat high, or larger quantities of rennet used than usual. The cause of the defect is obscure,
but it has been demonstrated that the same is communicable if a starter is made by grating
some of this mottled cheese into milk. The bacteriology of the trouble has not yet been worked
out, but the defect is undoubtedly due to an organism that is able to grow in the ripening
cheese. It has been claimed that the use of a pure lactic ferment as a starter enables one
to overcome this defect.

~Bitter cheese.~ Bitter flavors are sometimes developed in cheese especially where the ripening
process is carried on at a low temperature in the presence of an excess of moisture for a considerable
length of time.

Guillebeau[213] isolated several forms from Emmenthaler cheese which he connected with udder
inflammation that were able to produce a bitter substance in cheese.

Von Freudenreich[214] has described a new form Micrococcus casei amari (micrococcus of bitter
cheese) that was found in a sample of bitter cheese. This germ is closely related to Conn's
micrococcus of bitter milk. It develops lactic acid rapidly, coagulating the milk and producing
an intensely bitter taste in the course of one to three days. When milk infected with this
organism is made into cheese, there is formed in a few days a decomposition product that imparts
a marked bitter flavor to the cheese.

Harrison[215] has recently found a yeast that grows in the milk and also in the cheese which
produces an undesirable bitter change.

It is peculiar that some of the organisms that are able to produce bitter products in milk
do not retain this property when the milk is worked up into cheese.

~Putrid or rotten cheese.~ Sometimes cheese undergoes a putrefactive decomposition in which
the texture is profoundly modified and various foul smelling gases are evolved. These often
begin on the exterior as small circumscribed spots that slowly extend into the cheese, changing
the casein into a soft slimy mass. Then, again, the interior of the cheese undergoes this slimy
decomposition. The soft varieties are more prone toward this fermentation than the hard, although
the firm cheeses are by no means exempt from the trouble. The "Verlaufen" or "running" of limburger
cheese is a fermentation allied to this. It is where the inside of the cheese breaks down into
a soft semi-fluid mass. In severe cases, the rind may even be ruptured, in which case the whole
interior of the cheese flows out as a thick slimy mass, having sometimes a putrid odor. The
conditions favoring this putrid decomposition are usually associated with an excess of moisture,
and an abnormally low ripening temperature.

~Rusty spot.~ This name is applied to the development of small yellowish-red or orange spots
that are formed sometimes throughout the whole mass of cheddar cheese. A close inspection shows
the colored points to be located along the edges of the curd particles. According to Harding,[216]
this trouble is most common in spring and fall. The cause of the difficulty has been traced
by Connell[217] to the development of a chromogenic bacterium, Bacillus rudensis. The organism
can be most readily isolated on a potato surface rather than with the usual isolating media,
agar or gelatin.

~Other pigment changes.~ Occasionally, with the hard type of cheese, but more frequently with
the softer foreign varieties, various abnormal conditions arise that are marked by the production
of different pigments in or on the cheese. More frequently these are merely superficial and
affect only the outer layers of the cheese. Generally they are attributable to the development
of certain chromogenic organisms (bacteria, molds and yeasts), although occasionally due to
other causes, as in the case of a blue discoloration sometimes noted in foreign cheese made
in copper kettles.[218]

De Vries[219] has described a blue condition that is found in Edam cheese. It appears first
as a small blue spot on the inside, increasing rapidly in size until the whole mass is affected.
This defect he was able to show was produced by a pigment-forming organism, B. cyaneo-fuscus.
By the use of slimy whey (lange wei) this abnormal change was controlled.

~Moldy cheese.~ With many varieties of cheese, especially some of the foreign types, the presence
of mold on the exterior is not regarded as detrimental; in fact a limited development is much
desired. In hard rennet cheese as cheddar or Swiss, the market demands a product free from
mold, although it should be said that this condition is imposed by the desire to secure a good-looking
cheese rather than any injury in flavor that the mold causes. Mold spores are so widely distributed
that, if proper temperature and moisture conditions prevail, these spores will always develop.
At temperatures in the neighborhood of 40° F. and below, mold growth is exceedingly slow, and
often fructification does not occur, the only evidence of the mold being the white, felt-like
covering that is made up of the vegetating filaments. The use of paraffin has been suggested
as a means of overcoming this growth, the cheese being dipped at an early stage into melted
paraffin. Recent experiments have shown that "off" flavors sometimes develop where cheese are
paraffined directly from the press. If paraffin is too hard, it has a tendency to crack and
separate from the rind, thus allowing molds to develop beneath the paraffin coat, where the
conditions are ideal as to moisture, for evaporation is excluded and the air consequently saturated.
The use of formalin (2% solution) has been suggested as a wash for the outside of the cheese.
This substance or sulfur is also applied in a gaseous form. Double bandaging is also resorted
to as a means of making the cheese more presentable through the removal of the outer bandage.

The nature of these molds has not been thoroughly studied as yet. The ordinary blue-green bread
mold, Penicillium glaucum, is most frequently found, but there are numerous other forms that
appear, especially at low temperatures.

~Poisonous cheese.~ Cases of acute poisoning arising from the ingestion of cheese are reported
from time to time. Vaughan has succeeded in showing that this condition is due to the formation
of a highly poisonous alkaloid which he has isolated, and which he calls tyrotoxicon.[220]
This poisonous ptomaine has also been demonstrated in milk and other milk products, and is
undoubtedly due to the development of various putrefactive bacteria that find their way into
the milk. It seems quite probable that the development of these toxic organisms can also go
on in the cheese after it is taken from the press.

~Prevention or cheese defects.~ The defective conditions previously referred to can rarely
be overcome in cheese so as to improve the affected product, for they only become manifest
in most cases during the later stages of the curing process. The only remedy against future
loss is to recognize the conditions that are apt to prevail during the occurrence of an outbreak
and see that the cheese are handled in such a way as to prevent a recurrence of the difficulty.

Many abnormal and undesirable results are incident to the manufacture of the product, such
as "sour" or "mealy" cheese, conditions due to the development of too much acid in the milk
or too high a "cook." These are under the direct control of the maker and for them he alone
is responsible. The development of taints due to the growth of unwelcome bacteria that have
gained access to the milk while it is yet on the farm are generally beyond the control of the
cheese maker, unless they are so pronounced as to appear during the handling of the curds.
If this does occur he is sometimes able, through the intervention of a starter or by varying
some detail in making, to handle the milk in such a way as to minimize the trouble, but rarely
is he able to eliminate it entirely.

One of the most strenuous duties which the maker must perform at all times is to point out
to his patrons the absolute necessity of their handling the milk in such a way as to prevent
the introduction of organisms of a baleful type.

FOOTNOTES:

[178] Russell, 13 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat., 1896, p. 112; Campbell, Trans. High. & Agr. Soc.
Scotland, 5 ser., 1898, 10:181.

[179] Winkler, Milch Zeit. (Hildesheim), Nov. 24, 1900.

[180] Campbell, No. Brit., Agric., May 12, 1897.

[181] Weigmann, Milch Zeit., No. 50, 1889.

[182] Klein, Milch Zeit. (Hildesheim), No. 17, 1900.

[183] Adametz, Landw. Jahr., 18:256.

[184] Van Slyke and Hart, Bull. 214, N. Y. Expt. Stat., July 1902.

[185] Milch Zeit., 1898, No. 49.

[186] Lafar, Technical Mycology, p. 216.

[187] Adametz, Landw. Jahr., 18:228.

[188] Freudenreich, Landw. Jahr. d. Schweiz, 4:17; 5:16.

[189] Russell, 13 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat., 1896, p. 95.

[190] Harrison and Connell, Rev. gen. du Lait, Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, 1903-04.

[191] Lloyd, Bath and West of Eng. Soc. Rept., 1892, 2:180.

[192] Freudenreich, Landw. Jahr. d. Schweiz, 1900; Adametz, Oest. Molk. Zeit., 1899, No. 7.

[193] Russell, 14 Wis. Expt. Stat., 1897, p. 203.

[194] Babcock and Russell, 18 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat., 1901. Dean, Harrison and Harcourt, Bull.
121, Ont. Agr'l. Coll., June 1902.

[195] Schaffer, Milch Zeit., 1889, p. 146.

[196] Adametz, Landw. Jahr., 18:261.

[197] Duclaux, Le Lait, p. 213.

[198] Adametz, Oest. Molk. Zeit., 1900, Nos. 16-18.

[199] Freudenreich, Landw. Jahr. d. Schweiz, 1897, p. 85.

[200] Weigmann, Cent. f. Bakt., II Abt., 1898, 4:593; also 1899, 5:630.

[201] Gorini, Abs. in Expt. Stat. Rec., 11:388.

[202] Babcock and Russell, 14 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat., 1897, p. 161.

[203] Jensen, Cent. f. Bakt., II Abt., 3:752.

[204] Freudenreich, Cent. f. Bakt., II Abt., 1900, 6:332.

[205] Jensen, Ibid., 1900, 6:734.

[206] 17 Rept. Wis. Expt. Stat., 1900, p. 102.

[207] Jensen, Landw. Jahr. d. Schweiz, 1900.

[209] Cent. f. Bakt. 1899, p. 14.

[210] Bull. 128, Wis. Expt. Stat., Sept. 1905.

[212] Harding, Rogers and Smith, Bull. 183, N. Y. (Geneva) Expt. Stat., Dec., 1900.

[213] Guillebeau, Landw. Jahr., 1890, p. 27.

[214] Freudenreich, Füehl. Landw. Ztg., 43:361.

[215] Harrison, Bull. 123 Ont. Agr'l. Coll., May, 1902.

[216] Bull. 183, N. Y. (Geneva) Expt. Stat., Dec. 1900.

[217] Connell, Bull. Canadian Dept. of Agr., 1897.

[218] Schmöger, Milch Zeit., 1883, p. 483.

[219] De Vries, Milch Zeit., 1888, pp. 861, 885.

[220] Zeit. f. physiol. Chemie, 10:146.

INDEX.

Acid, effect of, on churning, 137;
  in butter-making, 138.

Acid test, 52.

Aeration of milk, 59.

Aerobic bacteria, 7.

Alcoholic fermentation in milk, 72.

Anaerobic bacteria, 7.

Animal, influence of, on milk infection, 34.

Animal odor, 56.

Anthrax, 94.

Antiseptics, 9, 88.

Aroma, of butter, 140.

Bacillus: definition of, 2.
  acidi lactici, 64;
  cyaneo-fuscus, 188;
  cyanogenus, 74;
  foetidus lactis, 157;
  lactis aerogenes, 65;
  lactis erythrogenes, 74;
  lactis saponacei, 67;
  lactis viscosus, 71;
  nobilis, 162, 174;
  prodigiosus, 74;
  rudensis, 188;
  synxanthus, 75;
  tuberculosis, 84.

Bacteria:
  on hairs, 35;
  kinds in milk, 63;
  in barn air, 42;
  in milk pails, 27;
  in butter, 154;
  classification of, 4;
  in cheese, 160;
  culture of, 17;
  in cream, 128;
  discovery of, 1;
  external conditions affecting, 8;
  form of, 2;
  in butter, 142;
  in butter-making, 127;
  in centrifuge slime, 39;
  In fore milk, 28;
  in rennet, 163;
  In separator slime, 39;
  manure, 37;
  number of, in milk, 50.
  Distribution of:
    milk of American cities, 50;
    European cities, 50;
    in relation to cheese, 168.
  Of disease:
    anthrax, 94;
    cholera, 98;
    diphtheria, 99;
    lockjaw, 94;
    toxic, 100;
    tuberculosis, 84;
    typhoid fever, 98.
  Methods of study of:
    culture, 15;
    culture media, 13;
    isolation, 14.

Bitter butter, 158;
  cheese, 189;
  milk, 72.

Bloody milk, 74.

Blue cheese, 191;
  milk, 74.

Bovine tuberculosis, 84.

Brie cheese, 182.

Butter:
  bacteria in, 154;
  bitter, 158;
  "cowy," 157;
  fishy, 159;
  lardy, 157;
  moldy, 158;
  mottled, 156;
  oily, 158;
  putrid, 156;
  rancid, 155;
  tallowy, 157;
  turnip flavor in, 157.
  Making:
    aroma, 140;
    flavor in, 140;
    pure culture, 143;
    in ripening of cream, 136.

Butyric acid fermentation, 69.

By-products of factory, methods of preserving, 25.

Casease, 68.

Caseone, 68.

Centrifugal force, cleaning milk by, 38.

Cheese:
  bacterial flora of, 168;
  bitter, 189;
  blue, 187;
  Brie, 182;
  Edam, 72, 162;
  Emmenthaler, 185;
  flavor of, 179;
  gassy fermentations in, 183;
  Gorgonzola, 180;
  molds on, 191;
  mottled, 189;
  "nissler," 185;
  poisonous, 192;
  putrid, 190;
  ripening of moldy, 180;
  ripening of soft, 181;
  Roquefort, 180;
  rusty spot in, 188;
  Stilton, 180;
  Swiss, 185.
  Making and curing:
    chemical changes in curing, 166;
    influence of temperature on curing, 169;
    influence of rennet, 177;
    physical changes in curing, 165;
    prevention of defects, 193;
    starters in, 161;
    temperature in relation to bacterial influence, 169.
  Theories of curing:
    digestive, 173;
    galactase, 175, 177;
    lactic acid, 174.

Chemical changes in cheese-ripening, 166.

Chemical disinfectants in milk:
  bleaching powder, 81;
  corrosive sublimate, 81;
  formalin, 80;
  sulfur, 80;
  whitewash, 81;
  vitriol, 81.

Chemical preservatives, 80.

Children, milk for, 45.

Cholera in milk, 98.

Classification by separator, 38.

Coccus, definition of, 2.

Cold, influence on bacteria, 8, 48.

Contamination of milk through disease germs, 95, 191.

Covered milk pails, 41.

Cream, bacterial changes in, 135;
  mechanical causes for bacteria in, 135;
  pasteurized, 113;
  restoration of consistency of pasteurized, 132.
  Ripening of, 136;
    advantage of pure cultures in, 144;
    by natural starters, 142;
    characteristics of pure cultures in, 145;
    objections to pure cultures in, 146;
    principles of pure cultures in, 143;
    propagation of pure cultures, 151;
    purity of commercial starters, 150;
    home-made starters in, 146.

Creaming methods, 134.

Curd test, 76.

Dairy utensils a source of contamination, 21.

Diarrhoeal diseases, 100.

Digesting bacteria, 67.

Digestibility of heated milk, 111.

Diphtheria, 99.

Dirt in milk, 34.

Dirt, exclusion of, 36.

Disease germs in milk, 95;
  effect of heat on, 91;
  origin of, 83.

Disinfectants in milk:
  alkaline salts, 106;
  boracic acid, 106;
  formalin, 106;
  preservaline, 107;
  salicylic acid, 106.

Domestic pasteurizing apparatus, 119.

Drugs, taints in milk due to, 56.

Drying, effect of, 8.

Edam cheese, 72, 162.

Emmenthaler cheese, 185.

Endospores, 3.

Enzyms, 10.

Factory by-products, 22;
  treatment of, 25.

Farrington alkaline tablet, 52.

Fecal bacteria, effect of, on butter, 35.

Fermentation:
  In cheese: gassy, 183.
  In milk:
    alcoholic, 72;
    bitter, 72;
    blue, 74;
    butyric, 69;
    digesting, 67;
    gassy, 66;
    kephir, 72;
    koumiss, 72;
    lactic acid, 63;
    lange-wei, 72;
    red, 74;
    ropy, 69;
    slimy, 69;
    soapy, 73;
    souring, 63;
    sweet curdling, 67;
    treatment of, 75.
  Tests, 76;
    Gerber's, 76;
    Walther's, 76;
    Wisconsin curd, 76.

Filtration of milk, 38.

Fishy butter, 159.

Flavor:
  of butter, 140;
  of cheese, 179.

Foot and mouth disease, 93.

Fore milk, 28.

Formaldehyde, 80.

Formalin, 80.

Fruity flavor in cheese, 188.

Galactase in cheese, 175.

Gassy fermentations:
  in cheese, 183;
  in milk, 67;
  in Swiss cheese, 167.

Gläsler, 185.

Gorgonzola cheese, 180.

Growth of bacteria, essential conditions for, 4;
  in milk, 46.

Hair, bacteria on, 35.

Heat, influence on bacterial growth, 8.

Heated milk:
  characteristics of, 109;
  action toward rennet, 112;
  body, 110;
  digestibility, 111;
  fermentative changes, 111;
  flavor, 110;
  hydrogen peroxid test in, 23;
  Storch's test, 23.

Hygienic milk, bacteria in, 45.

Infection of milk:
  animal, 34;
  dairy utensils, 21;
  fore milk, 28;
  milker, 36.

Isolation of bacteria, methods of, 14.

Kephir, 72.

Koumiss, 72.

Lactic acid:
  fermentation in milk, 63;
  theory in cheese-curing, 174.

Lange-wei, 72.

Lardy butter, 157.

Light, action on bacteria, 9.

Manure, bacteria in, 33.

Methods:
  of isolation, 14;
  culture, 15.

Micrococcus casei amari, 189.

Microscope, use of, 17.

Milk:
  a bacterial food medium, 19;
  bacteria in, 48.
  Disease organisms in:
    anthrax, 94;
    cholera, 98;
    diphtheria, 99;
    foot and mouth disease, 93;
    poisonous, 101;
    ptomaines, 101;
    scarlet fever, 99;
    tuberculosis, 84;
    typhoid fever, 98.
  Contamination, 20:
    from air, 42;
    from animal odors, 55;
    dirt, 34;
    distinction between bacterial and non-bacterial, 57;
    fore milk, 28;
    infection in factory, 59;
    milker, 36;
    relative importance of various kinds, 43;
    utensils, 21.

Milk fermentations:
  alcoholic, 72;
  bitter, 72;
  bloody, 74;
  blue, 74;
  butyric acid, 69;
  gassy, 66, 167;
  kephir, 72;
  koumiss, 72;
  lactic acid, 63;
  red, 72;
  ropy, 69;
  slimy, 69;
  soapy, 74;
  souring, 63;
  sweet curdling, 67;
  tests for, 76;
  treatment of, 75;
  yellow, 75.

Milk, heated:
  action towards rennet, 112;
  digestibility, 111;
  flavor of, 110;
  fermentative changes in, 111;
  hydrogen peroxid test, 110.

Milking machines, influence of, on germ content, 37.

Milk preservation:
  chemical agents in, 106;
  condensation, 107;
  freezing, 108;
  heat, 108;
  pasteurization, 113;
  sterilization, 112.

Milk-sugar as bacterial food, 19.

Mold, in butter, 158;
  in cheese, 191.

Mottled cheese, 189.

"Nissler" cheese, 185.

Odors, direct absorption of, in milk, 55.

Oidium lactis, 159.

Oily butter, 158.

Pasteurization of milk;
  acid test in, 128;
  bacteriological study of, 124, 126, 149;
  for butter, 147;
  for cheese, 162;
  for direct use, 113;
  of skim milk, 25;
  details of, 128;
  temperature and time limit in, 118.

Pasteurizing apparatus:
  continuous flow, 122;
  coolers, 131;
  Danish, 123;
  domestic, 119;
  Farrington, 122;
  intermittant flow, 121;
  Miller, 122;
  Potts, 121;
  regenerator, 122;
  Reid, 126;
  Russell, 121;
  testing rate of flow, 124.

Penicillium glaucum, 159, 180, 190.

Pepsin, 10.

Physical changes in cheese-ripening, 165.

Poisonous bacteria:
  in cheese, 192;
  in milk, 100, 101.

Preservaline, 167.

Preservation of milk:
  by exclusion, 103;
  chemical agents, 106;
  condensing, 107;
  filtration, 38;
  freezing, 108;
  pasteurization, 112;
  physical agents, 107;
  sterilization, 112.

Ptomaine poisoning, 101.

Pure cultures, 15.

Pure culture starters:
  advantages of, 144;
  characteristics of, 145;
  home-made cultures compared with, 146;
  propagation of, 151.

Putrid cheese, 190;
  butter, 156.

Rancidity in butter, 155.

Red milk, 74.

Rennet:
  action in heated milk, 112;
  bacteria in, 163;
  influence of, on cheese-ripening, 177.

Restoration of consistency in pasteurized cream, 132.

Ripening of cheese:
  moldy cheese, 180;
  soft cheese, 181.
  Of cream, 136;
    artificial starters, 143;
    natural starters, 142;
    principles of pure culture starters in, 143.

Ropy milk, 69.

Roquefort cheese, 180.

Rusty spot in cheese, 190.

Rusty cans: effect of, on acidity, 53.

Sanitary milk, 45, 104.

Sanitary pails, 41.

Scarlet fever in milk, 99.

Separator slime:
  bacteria in, 39;
  tubercle bacillus in, 93.

Scalded layer, resistance of bacteria in, 91.

Skim-milk, a distributor of disease, 96.

Slimy milk, 69.

Soapy milk, 74.

Soft cheese, ripening of, 186.

Sources of contamination in milk:
  barn air, 42;
  dairy utensils, 21;
  dirt from animals, 34;
  factory cans, 25;
  fore-milk, 28;
  milker, 36.

Souring of milk, 63.

Spirillum, definition of, 2.

Spores, 3.

Starters:
  in cheese-making, 161;
  in butter-making, 142;
  propagation of, 151;
  pure cultures in cream-ripening, 143.

Sterilization of milk, 112.

Streptococcus Hollandicus, 72, 162.

Stilton cheese, 181.

Storch's test, 23.

Sulfur as a disinfectant, 81.

Sweet curdling milk, 68.

Sweet flavor in cheese, 188.

Swiss cheese, 177;
  gassy fermentations in, 24, 185.

Taints, absorption of, 55.

Taints, bacterial vs. physical, 58.

Taints in milk, absorption of, 55.

Taints, use of starters in overcoming, 79.

Taints in butter:
  putrid, 156;
  rancidity, 155;
  turnip flavor, 157.

Tallowy butter, 157.

Temperature:
  effect on bacterial development, 6, 48;
  effect of low, 108;
  effect of high, 108;
  and time limit in milk pasteurization, 113.

Tests for milk:
  fermentation, 76;
  Storch's, 23;
  acid, 52.

Theories in cheese-curing:
  digestive, 171;
  galactase, 175, 177;
  lactic acid, 174.

Trypsin, 10.

Tubercle bacillus:
  in milk, 88;
  in separator slime, 93;
  thermal death limits, 117.

Tuberculin test, 86.

Tuberculosis, bovine, 84.

Turnip flavor in butter, 157.

Typhoid fever, 98.

Tyrogen, 162.

Tyrotoxicon, 101, 190.

Udder:
  artificial introduction of bacteria into, 32;
  milk germ-free in, 19;
  infection of, 28;
  washing, 89;
  tuberculosis in, 87.

Viscogen, 132.

Water: as a source of infection, 61.

Whey, pollution of vats, 23;
  method of preserving, 25;
  treatment of, in vats, 25.

Whitewash, 81.

Wisconsin curd test, 76.

Yeasts:
  alcoholic ferments in milk, 73;
  fruity flavor in cheese, 186;
  gassy due to yeasts, 186;
  in bitter cheese, 189;
  in canned butter, 159;
  kephir, 72.

