All this, it must not be forgotten, was written in the year 1801, long after the writer had
finally retired from the battlefield of politics, upon which, at the period when his own account
of his youth breaks off, he had not yet made his first essay. Some practical experience of
actual battlefields was to be gained by the future statesman before his appearance in the parliamentary
arena. Just before the time when, between nineteen and twenty years of age, he was leaving
Oxford, the Seven Years' War broke out, and finding "home detestable, no prospect of a decent
allowance to go abroad [he had a trifling six hundred pounds a year from his father, though],
neither happiness nor quiet," he joined the army and went on foreign service. Here he had the
good-fortune to come under the chivalrous General Wolfe, whom he eulogizes in terms the genuine
warmth and heartiness of which is all the more striking from the contrast with his generally
severe judgments upon his contemporaries. At the battle of Minden in 1759, and again at Kloster
Kampen in the following year, he displayed conspicuous personal courage, which was rewarded,
on his return to England, with the rank of colonel and the court appointment of aide-de-camp
to the new king, George III.

Hardly had camp been exchanged for court when circumstances offered the young Lord Fitzmaurice
his first introduction to a kind of political employ which was to be thenceforward, through
a series of years, his frequent and peculiar function. Lord Bute, the favorite, had begun to
climb the ladder of ministerial office, and had cast his eyes upon that unscrupulous and greedy
but undeniably able politician, Henry Fox, as the man most desirable for his purpose by way
of a House-of-Commons ally. Owing, very possibly, to the fact that there existed some connection
between Fox and Fitzmaurice's father, Lord Fitzmaurice fell into the place of intermediary
between the parties to this negotiation, which had hardly passed out of its first stage when
the death of his father removed him, now Lord Shelburne, to the House of Lords before he had
ever taken the family seat, into which he had been elected at the last general election, in
the lower House. The negotiation was successfully carried through. Fox named his price--a peerage
for his wife--and after considerable haggling got it, and in return undertook a position which
Shelburne announced to Bute in a letter dated October 31, 1761, as follows: "Mr. Fox will attend
[the House of Commons] every day, and will, either by silence or by speaking, as he finds it
prudent according to the occasion, do his best to forward what your lordship wishes, and will
enter into no sort of engagement with any one else whatever." But before the year was out Bute
found himself in want of a closer and more positive support on the part of Fox than he had
in the first instance contracted for. The peace party, which he (Bute) headed, had at last
the close of the continental war full in sight, peace preliminaries were about to be laid before
Parliament, but there was a prospect of the war party fighting over the terms proposed by ministers,
and Bute felt that he must have a strong leader to champion his treaty in the House of Commons.
Fox was his man for the place, and Shelburne was again commissioned to treat with him. The
details of a negotiation of this kind are not of a character to call for very particular attention
a century afterward, but the letters between the parties--many of them now for the first time
published--are not without considerable interest from the light they throw upon the characters
and motives of their writers. The position of a go-between is always more or less perilous;
his task, however well performed, is generally a thankless one; nor in such matters can the
adeptest diplomacy, joined to the most thorough bona fides, always ensure the conduct of the
common agent against misapprehension and sore feelings. Of this the particular negotiation
of which we are now speaking is a typical instance. Bute's offer (through Shelburne) to Fox
was the leadership of the Commons, with a peerage for himself to follow. Fox at the time held
the very lucrative post of paymaster-general--lucrative, because in those days it was deemed
a perfectly legitimate practice for the paymaster to make a private profit out of the investment
of the public moneys for the time being under his control. Shelburne appears to have assumed--and
so, indeed, it was only natural to assume--that Fox would not dream of accepting high office
in the ministry without at the same time resigning his extra-ministerial berth at the Pay Office;
and there is evidence that such--at first, at any rate--was Fox's own intention. The king was
given to understand that Fox's resignation of the Pay Office would be a term of the proposed
arrangements, and consented to them on that footing; and then all at once Fox came out in the
character of Injured Innocent, protested that he had never meant to resign, that he had all
along intended to have his cake as well as eat it, and that Shelburne had entrapped and betrayed
him. The story goes, but on what authority history saith not, that Bute afterward owned to
Fox that Shelburne's conduct in this transaction had been a "pious fraud," and that Fox retorted,
"I can see the fraud plainly enough, but where is the piety?" The correspondence and the other
evidence which, with a pardonable jealousy for his ancestor's fair fame, Lord Edmond Fitzmaurice
sets out with much detail in his biography, requires, we think, at the very least, that a verdict
of "Not proven" should be entered in Shelburne's favor; but a man who chooses to make personal
negotiation his specialty must not be surprised to find his tact sometimes called trickery,
and his double agency set down as double dealing. It is certain that the part he played in
the Bute-Fox negotiations entailed upon Shelburne imputations of duplicity which he never succeeded
in entirely dissipating. The king himself wrote of him as "the Jesuit of Berkeley Square,"
alluding, no doubt, to the nickname "Malagrida" (the name of a prominent Italian Jesuit of
the day) which somebody had fastened upon him, and which served Goldsmith as the text of that
deliciously maladroit remark of his to the earl: "Do you know, I never could conceive the reason
why they call your lordship Malagrida, for Malagrida was a very good sort of man."

Bute, however, obviously retained undiminished confidence in his favorite agent, for in his
arrangements for the formation of a new ministry under the ostensible headship of George Grenville
in the spring of 1763, he not only employed Shelburne in negotiations with no less than seven
politically important personages, but he even wished to get him the seals of secretary of state.
This, however, was more than Grenville would consent to. He objected that the old peers would
be jealous of the elevation of the representative of a family which, however great its note
in Ireland, was a comparatively recent addition to the peerage of Great Britain; and also--reasonably
enough, one is inclined to say--that Shelburne's youth and total inexperience of office rendered
it advisable that he should at least try his 'prentice hand in one of the lower administrative
offices. Shelburne was at this time, it must be remembered, only five-and-twenty years of age.
A man of his parts and rank and opportunities might rise rapidly in those days, but he had
hitherto had absolutely no official training; and the English Parliament had not yet seen,
what it was soon to see in the younger Pitt, a chancellor of the exchequer of the almost undergraduate
age of three-and-twenty. However, Bute persisted in forcing upon his friend--who appears to
have been not unwilling to stand for the time aside--a place in the new ministry, and he accordingly
accepted the presidency of the Board of Trade, was sworn a privy councillor, and entered the
cabinet of the so-called "Triumvirate" administration. Immediately he found himself called
upon to face American questions in which he was destined to play so important a part. Some
time before he took office, Fox, in one of his shrewd letters to Bute, had marked out Shelburne
as a man pre-eminently fitted to effect "that greatest and most necessary of all schemes, the
settlement of America;" and he had hardly been a month at the Board of Trade when a communication
from Lord Egremont, the "Southern" secretary of state, directed his particular attention to
this subject.

The North American colonies--or, as they were commonly called, plantations--labored in those
days, in their relation with the home-country, under the inconveniences of a system of dual
government. The Board of Trade was the working colonial office, framed instructions to the
governors, gave information and advice, and carried on the every-day colonial business generally;
but the secretary of state for the southern department, whose sphere of supervision embraced
all the colonies wherever situate, had always a permanent right to interfere in and control
the conduct of colonial affairs. It was in virtue of this right that in May, 1763, Secretary
Lord Egremont took the initiative in setting the Board of Trade to work to solve the problem
of how best to arrange for the administration of the wide area of North American territory
that the peace had transferred from French to British rule. His instructions were short and
pointed. "The questions (he wrote) which relate to North America in general are--1st, What
new governments should be established there? what form should be adopted for such a government?
and where the capital or residence of each governor should be fixed? 2dly, What military establishment
will be sufficient? what new forts should be erected? and which, if any, may it be expedient
to demolish? 3dly, In what way, least burdensome and most palatable to the colonies, can they
contribute toward the support of the additional expense which must attend their civil and military
establishments upon the arrangement which your lordships shall propose?" Mark the "3dly." It
is interesting, as illustrating the ideas and circumstances which led to the famous Stamp Act,
to see how completely Lord Egremont's question assumes not only the right of the mother-country
to tax her colonies, but the probable expediency of her actually exercising that right. In
his reply, Shelburne, while admitting the revenue question to be a "point of the highest importance,"
practically evaded it on the plea of the inability of the board to form a satisfactory opinion
without further materials. With regard to the new territory, his advice, which was followed,
was, in effect, not to attempt to annex the whole of the north-western acquisitions, but to
form a new colony of Canada, limited by definite geographical boundaries.

"American historians," remarks Lord Shelburne's biographer, "have seen in the policy thus pursued
a deliberate intention of closing the West against further emigration, from the fear that remote
colonies would claim the independence which their position would favor. The statesmen of the
eighteenth century have follies enough to answer for without charging them with this in addition.
However impossible it was in practice to dam up the ever-advancing tide of the English race,
it was equally impossible in theory openly to avow the intention of dispossessing the still
powerful savage nations, which were bound to England by numerous conventions, and were regarded
for the most part as subjects of George III., equally entitled with the inhabitants of Boston,
or even of London, to the protection of his government. To adjust the relations between savage
and civilized man during the period of the struggle which can have but one result is a task
as difficult as it is thankless, but American Presidents have not been accused of attempting
to prevent further colonization of their continent because they have from time to time issued
proclamations ascertaining and attempting to protect the ever-retiring bounds of the Indian
reservations."

But the march of events was soon to take the responsibility of the "settlement" (save the mark!)
of American affairs out of the hands of Shelburne. He had joined the ministry more because
of the insistance of his friend, Bute, the potent cabinet-maker, than from any general sympathy
with the views of the men with whom he had to act; and every week put him more and more out
of touch with them. He protested formally to Egremont against the dual government of the colonies,
and when the latter tried to shelve the question by professing fatigue, curtly told him--what
was true enough--that he must expect more if the affairs of America were to be put in order.
He questioned the legality of the action of his colleagues, the Triumvirate (Grenville, Halifax
and Egremont), in ordering the arrest of Wilkes of North Briton fame. But, oddly enough, considerations
of a wholly different character appear to have influenced his actual resignation of office.
Bute, nominally in retirement, but really playing the rôle of ministerial wirepuller-in-ordinary,
had a surprising fancy for devising unlikely combinations; and now he was minded to conjure
with the still potent name of Pitt. Once more, and, as it happened, for the last time, he sought
the service of Shelburne as negotiator, and once more Shelburne, undeterred by past experiences,
undertook the difficult position. Pitt nibbled, and for a time seemed about to bite, but in
the end he drew off unhooked; whereupon (at the beginning of September, 1763) Shelburne immediately
resigned the Board of Trade. What his real motive in taking this step was, his own letters
do not at all clearly show. Doubtless he felt his uncordial relations with his colleagues irksome,
but we can also hardly doubt that the attraction Pitt was beginning to exercise over him formed
a material factor in his resolve. Freed from the trammels of office, Shelburne boldly stood
forward as an opponent of the arbitrary and fatuous course which the Grenville ministry, all
subservience to the king's wishes, adopted in the miserable business of Wilkes. Jeremy Bentham
has said of Shelburne that he was the only statesman he ever heard of who did not fear the
people. Certainly, Shelburne on this occasion showed, with an unmistakableness that simply
infuriated George III., that he did not fear the court. The king made no secret of his displeasure.
He dismissed the ex-minister even from his post of royal aide-de-camp, and when he appeared
at court snubbed him pointedly by pretending not to notice his presence. Bute followed suit,
and from this time all intercourse between him and Shelburne ceased.

For upward of a year after these events Shelburne kept entirely aloof from the world of politics,
busying himself with the management of his estates in the country, collecting a vast number
of historical documents (which are now in the British Museum), and every now and then coming
up to London to enjoy the society of the "young orators" (as Walpole calls them) who frequented
his house in Hill street, and the non-political clubs of littérateurs. Benjamin Franklin was
among his visitors at this time, and the two, as Shelburne in a letter to Franklin nineteen
years afterward reminds him, "talked upon the means of promoting the happiness of mankind."

But it was not in nature that a man of Shelburne's energetic and practical temperament should
long be content to remain in his tent when a Grenville was afield with such (to say the least)
debatable measures as the taxation of the colonies and the Regency Bill inscribed upon his
banner. His marriage happening to occur just at the time when the famous Stamp Act was in the
House of Lords kept Shelburne away from the debates on that measure, to which we may be sure
he would, if present, have offered a persistent and uncompromising opposition; but at the end
of April, 1765, he appeared in his place in Parliament to deliver a vigorous speech against
the Regency Bill, and showed the courage of his opinions by leading a minority of eight into
the lobby. To Rockingham, now at the head of the ministry, it was obvious that Shelburne, despite
his years--he was barely eight-and-twenty--was a personage whose support was worth conciliating,
and in July he offered to replace him in the Board of Trade. The offer was declined, and not
unnaturally. Shelburne had always, with Pitt, protested against the policy of the Stamp Act,
and could hardly have sat in a cabinet which, domineered over by the king, was preparing to
carry it into execution. We may surmise, too, that he was not unalive to the advantages of
a waiting game, and that, closely allied with Pitt as he had now become, and heartily believing
in him, he was unwilling to take office on any other than what we may call the Pitt platform.
Indeed, he himself says as much in writing to Pitt, a few months afterward, apropos of the
Rockingham overtures: "My answer was very short and very frank--that, independent of my connection,
I was convinced, from my opinion of the state of the court, as well as the state of affairs
everywhere; no system could be formed, durable and respectable, if Mr. Pitt could not be prevailed
on to direct and head it." In the same letter--the date is about December, 1765--he tells Pitt,
"'Tis you, sir, alone, in everybody's opinion, can put an end to this anarchy, if anything
can. I am satisfied your own judgment will best point out the time when you can do it with
most effect. You will excuse me, I am sure, when I hazard my thoughts to you, as it depends
greatly upon you whether they become opinions, but, by all I find from some authentic letters
from America, nothing can be more serious than its present state; and though it is my private
opinion it would be well for this country to be back where it was a year ago, I even despair
of a repeal [of the Stamp Act] effecting that if it is not accompanied with some circumstances
of a firm conduct, and some system immediately following such a concession."

Whatever the faults and weaknesses of the Rockingham administration of 1765-66--and they were
many--their moral courage in proposing and carrying through the repeal of the Stamp Act ought
to stand weightily to their credit. The king was well known to be vehemently averse to the
slightest tampering with the act; and it is difficult for any body of statesmen, even where--which
here was anything but the case--public opinion unanimously admits that a false step has been
taken, to face the obloquy and sneers sure to attend upon any proposal to retrace it. However,
the repealing measure was proposed and carried, Shelburne supporting the ministers with all
his might, though, doubting as he did even the abstract right of England to tax her colonies,
he with only four other peers divided the House against them on the question of the well-known
declaratory resolution. Sic vos non vobis. Though the Rockingham administration repealed the
Stamp Act, it was the popular belief that Pitt had been the real moving cause in the matter.
Pitt, and none other, was demanded by the national voice. The king reluctantly yielded. Pitt
marched into the royal closet with words of profoundest deference upon his tongue and the stern
triumph of a conqueror in his heart, and proceeded to form an administration in which there
was not even the offer of a place for Rockingham. For Shelburne, on the other hand, he immediately
sent, and offered him the seals of secretary of state. Such an appointment must have been a
bitter pill indeed to George III., but Pitt stood firm, and the king had to swallow his dislike
as best he might. What Choiseul, the French minister, thought of the new arrangement appears
from an interesting letter from him to Guerchy in London, which Lord Edmond Fitzmaurice quotes
from a copy at Lansdowne House. His conclusion is: "Alors le ministère d'Angleterre aura une
certaine consistance; sans cela, avec l'opposition de my Lord Temple, l'ineptie de M. Conway,
la jeunesse et peut-être l'étourderie de my Lord Shelburne quoique gouverné par M. Pitt, il
ne sera pas plus fort qu'il ne l'étoit ci-devant. My Lord Chatham à pris une charge trop forte
d'être le gouverneur de tout le monde et le protecteur de tous." At this critical point, the
mosaic administration (as Burke felicitously nicknamed it) just formed, Pitt entering the House
of Lords as earl of Chatham, to the annoyed surprise of the multitude to whom he had so long
been distinctively the Great Commoner, Shelburne at nine-and-twenty essaying the grave responsibilities
of a secretaryship of state, the first volume of the biography before us comes, most tantalizingly,
to a close. We stand on the threshold of the ever-memorable events of the war of independence,
and our appetite is keenly whetted for the feast of freshly interesting details which, though
Mr. Bancroft has enjoyed most liberal access to the papers at Lansdowne House, may confidently
be expected to be brought to light by one possessed of the opportunities, and, as the volume
before, us abundantly shows, the diligence and judgment of Lord Shelburne's present biographer.
The main outlines of Shelburne's career throughout the war are familiar, doubtless, to most
American readers. How he dissented from his colleagues' treatment of the American difficulty,
and was driven, in consequence, to resign his office; how, in opposition, he struggled with
all the energy of his character against the policy of North; how, when that policy received
its deathblow in the surrender of Cornwallis, he had the quiet triumph of seeing the king come
over to the views which he had so long vainly advocated; how, placed at the head of affairs,
he arranged and got the king's consent to preliminaries of peace; and how, before he had time
to finish his work, he was overthrown by the most disgraceful coalition that British parliamentary
government has seen;--are not all these things written in a hundred history books? But pending
the detailed and authentic narrative of these things that we shall look for in a future volume
of this new life of Shelburne, we have here, by anticipation, a most powerful sketch, by Shelburne's
own hand, of one of the principal--we cannot add famous--actors in the conduct of the war;
we mean the notorious Lord George Sackville, who, after being cashiered for cowardice at Minden,
was whitewashed by the first Rockingham ministry, and thenceforward so boldly held up his head
again, and traded on his plausible gravity of manner and family connections, that in the heat
of the war the court actually got him appointed to the peculiarly responsible post of American
secretary. Shelburne is terribly severe upon his conduct. "He sent out (writes Shelburne) the
greatest force which this country ever assembled, both of land and sea forces, which together
perhaps exceeded the greatest effort ever made by any nation, considering the distance and
all other circumstances, but was totally unable to combine the operations of the war, much
less to form any general plan for bringing about a reconciliation. The best plan which was
formed in the office was one which was given in by General Arnold. The inconsistent orders
given to Generals Howe and Burgoyne could not be accounted for except in a way which it must
be difficult for any person who is not conversant with the negligence of office to comprehend.
Among many singularities he had a particular aversion to being put out of his way on any occasion.
He had fixed to go into Kent or Northamptonshire at a particular hour, and to call on his way
at his office to sign the despatches, all of which had been settled, to both these generals.
By some mistake, those to General Howe were not fair copied, and, upon his growing impatient
at it, the office, which was a very idle one, promised to send it to the country after him,
while they despatched the others to General Burgoyne, expecting that the others could be expedited
before the packet sailed with the first, which, however, by some mistake, sailed without them,
and the wind detained the vessel which was ordered to carry the rest. Hence came General Burgoyne's
defeat, the French declaration, and the loss of thirteen colonies." What, indeed, could have
been, even a priori, greater fatuity than to entrust the direction of a war to a man who years
before, on the continent of Europe, had over and over again proved himself to be utterly destitute
of every military quality--of whose general repute the following lines, quoted by Shelburne
(from a newspaper of the time of the Seven Years' War), with the caustic commentary, "It is
feared there was too much foundation for what is insinuated, and more need not be said," are
a sufficiently suggestive indication?--

    All pale and trembling on the Gallic shore,
    His lordship gave the word, but could no more:
    Too small the corps, too few the numbers were,
    Of such a general to demand the care.
    To some mean chief, some major or a brig.,[D]
    He left his charge that night, nor cared a fig.
    'Twixt life and scandal, honor and the grave,
    Quickly deciding which was best to save,
    Back to the ships he ploughed the swelling wave.

Our view of Shelburne would be but a one-sided one if it regarded him solely and wholly as
a public character, and took no count of the domestic and private side of him. We are proportionately
grateful for some extracts from a diary kept at the time by his wife, Lady Shelburne, which
her great-grandson has been able to lay before us. They picture to us a quietly-ordered, rather
serious home, pretty constantly frequented, however, by company, as one would expect from the
many interests and associations of its busy-minded master. He seems to have been in the habit
of treating his wife, in private, to solid readings in history, politics and theology. One
morning breakfast is followed by some chapters of Thucydides, the next by part of one of Abernethy's
sermons, another day "Lord Shelburne read to us a paper concerning the Stamp Act in America;"
while on a fourth occasion Lady Shelburne, after dining at the French ambassador's and going
to a couple of gossipy assemblies afterward, comes home to her lord, who very appropriately
reads to her "a sermon out of Barrow against judging others--a very necessary lesson delivered
in very persuasive and pleasing terms." More of Lord Shelburne's private life we shall no doubt
learn in the second volume of his biography, in which we are promised "a picture of the society
of which Bowood [Lord Shelburne's country-seat in Wiltshire] was the centre during the latter
part of the century." Here, for the present, we conclude by registering once more our cordial
appreciation of the service that is rendered to history by the publication of such biographies
of leading men as that treated of in this paper. Documentary evidence carefully collected,
besides correcting the hasty and generally biased assertions of irresponsible contemporary
chroniclers, forms the only trustworthy foundation for the judgment of the impartial historian.

    W. D. R.

FOOTNOTES:

[C] Life of William, Earl of Shelburne, afterward First Marquess of Lansdowne, with Extracts
from his Papers and Correspondence. By Lord EDMOND FITZMAURICE. Vol. 1., 1737-66. Macmillan
& Co., London and New York, 1875.

[D] Brigadier-general Mostyn.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

SOCIETY IN PARIS.

If there is one point in social matters wherein Philadelphia shines pre-eminent, it is in the
matter of entertainments, whether private or public. A lavish and generous hospitality rules
our actions whenever we bid a guest to our board. Emphatically, it is to our board. If that
hospitality has a flaw, it is to be found in the fact that we make the eating and drinking
part of our festivities of far too much importance. Terrapin and Roederer take the place of
dress and of diamonds. Our cooks, and not our mantuamakers, are set in a flutter at the rumor
of a projected ball. We are less learned in point lace than we are in croquettes. There may
be a flaw in our diamonds, but our butter is peerless. Our balls have their culminating point
in the supper, and not in the German. We invite our best friends more willingly to partake
of a new dish than to meet some distinguished stranger. And at most of our grand entertainments
two great rushes take place--the one toward the dining-room when supper is announced, and the
other out of the front door when the banquet is ended, when repleted Nature finds no more joy
at the thought of terrapin, and when champagne has become a delusion and a snare.

In far different style do people entertain on the other side of the water. In Paris, that very
paradise of cookery, the substantial element of balls and parties is either wholly wanting
or is but a very secondary consideration. A Parisienne will bid you to her house, and leave
you to refresh exhausted Nature with a cup of tea and a sponge-cake. In summer she may vary
the entertainment by offering you a glass of currant syrup and water. She would consider herself
as utterly ruined in a financial point of view did she conceive that an assemblage of some
twenty or thirty people would require anything more substantial. At entertainments on a larger
scale, such as soirées musicales, evening receptions, etc., ices, coffee, sandwiches and a
variety of small cakes are usually handed round during the course of the evening; and that
is all. At the grandest of grand balls the supper is almost invariably composed entirely of
cold dishes--chicken, filet of beef, fish with mayonnaise sauce, etc., with ices, cakes and
delicious bon-bons. If extra magnificence in the matter of viands is aimed at, it is sought
in the matter of unseasonable and consequently costly delicacies. Thus, at a ball which was
given during the month of February last the feature of the supper was strawberries served in
unlimited profusion. The substantiality, the abundance, the variety of one of our Philadelphia
suppers, with its terrapin, its croquettes, its oysters dressed in half a dozen styles, its
game and sweetbreads and chicken salad, its ices and Charlotte Russe and meringues, its fruits
and flowers, its oceans of champagne, rivers of hock and lakes of claret punch, would make
a Parisian open his eyes--ay, and his mouth as well. For, be it known, the foreigners who scorn
suppers in their native land lay aside all such prejudices with marvelous celerity when bidden
to a Philadelphia banquet.

It must, however, be confessed that this simplicity in the matter of food which is characteristic
of French entertainments is a great encouragement to the givers of soirées in general. With
us, to entertain as other people do requires not only a lengthy purse, but a degree of care
and forethought in the preparation for any festivity which is very wearing on body and mind
alike. If Mrs. Quakercity wishes to invite fifty people to her house, her soul is vexed within
her and her body is worn to a shadow with the magnitude of her preparations before the event
can take place. Not so with Madame la Marquise. The purse of Madame la Marquise is but slender
and her rooms are small. Nevertheless, she shrinks not from bidding her friends come to see
her. Either she has, in pleasant sociable fashion, a regular reception-evening, once a week,
when she is "at home" to all her friends and acquaintances, or else she organizes a little
soirée twice or thrice during the season. Fifty or sixty people, as many as her rooms will
conveniently hold, are invited. The mistress of the house provides something in the way of
some good amateur music, a charade or two acted in almost professional style, a bit of declamation,
or possibly the presence of some literary or artistic lion. Everybody comes, and everybody
tries to make himself or herself as agreeable as possible. Nobody turns up his or her nose
at the cup of tea, the delicately cut sandwiches, the tiny cakes that are handed round during
the course of the evening. Nobody goes away groaning, "Heavens! how hungry I am!" Madame la
Marquise cannot afford to give her friends pâté de foie gras and hothouse strawberries, and
they neither expect to have them nor blame her for not offering them. If she were obliged to
offer costly and delicate viands to her friends whenever she invited them to her house, she
would not be able to invite them at all. They recognize the fact, and enjoy the hospitality
which she offers them without expecting anything more. But I should very much like to see a
reception at home where tea and sandwiches formed the sole refreshments of the evening. The
comments of the departing guests would be more audible than flattering to the hostess, I am afraid.

The dinner-parties which form in Paris, as with us, a very prominent feature of social life,
are far less heavy in character than are the same class of entertainments with us. They consist
of fewer courses, which are served more rapidly. The guests are usually invited at seven o'clock,
and are seldom detained at table after ten. Music, either private or professional, usually
fills up the evening. It is customary to invite a certain number of guests to come in after
a grand dinner to pass the remainder of the evening--a practice which proves that in Parisian
society people are far less "cantankerous" than they are in our own. I can scarcely picture
to myself a state of affairs wherein an American belle or society-man would consider an invitation
to "come in" after dinner as anything but an insult. Which proves that we are not, after all,
as we pride ourselves upon being, the most sensible people on the face of the earth in all
respects. That pleasant willingness to accept invitations as they are really meant, and to
appreciate hospitality for its own sake, is a social lesson that the members of American society
would do well to study after the example set by their Parisian brethren.

