 For all these blessings the President
of the United States has asked us to render thanks to Almighty God. Our cause is that of humanity,
of civilization, of Christianity. We write upon our banners, from the inspired words of Holy
Writ: 'God has made of one blood all the nations of the earth.' We acknowledge all as brothers,
and invite them to partake with us alike in the grand inheritance of freedom; and we repeat
the divine sentiment from the Sermon on the Mount: 'Do unto others as you would have them do
unto you.' (Loud cheers.)

Nor let it be supposed that we, as Americans, are entirely selfish in this matter. We believe
that this Union is the most sacred trust ever confided by God to man. We believe that this
American Union is the best, the brightest, the last experiment of self-government; and as it
shall be maintained and perpetuated, or broken and dissolved, the light of liberty shall beam
upon the hopes of mankind, or be forever extinguished amid the scoffs of exulting tyrants,
and the groans of a world in bondage. (Loud applause.) Thanking you, ladies and gentlemen,
for the kind indulgence with which you have been pleased to receive these remarks, I will now
proceed to the toasts which have been prepared for the occasion. Ladies and gentlemen, the
first toast will be, 'The President of the United States,' under whose proclamation we are
this day convened. Before asking you to respond to that toast, I would say that we are honored
by the presence this evening of his excellency, the American Minister, Mr. Adams. (Prolonged
applause.) This is a name for a century, and during three generations most honorably and conspicuously
connected with the cause of our country and of human liberty. The grandfather and father of
our American minister were each elevated to the presidency of the United States by the votes
of the American people. The first, the illustrious John Adams, moved in 1776 the Declaration
of American Independence, and supported that motion by an immortal and most eloquent address.
He was the successor of the peerless Washington as the President of the United States. The
second, John Quincy Adams, eminent for courage, for integrity, for opposition to slavery, for
devotion to the cause of liberty, for learning, science, eloquence, diplomacy, and statesmanship,
was the successor of President Monroe. His son, our honored guest, inheriting all these great
qualities and noble principles of an illustrious ancestry, is requested to respond to the first
toast, 'The President of the United States.' (The toast was drunk amid the most enthusiastic
applause.)

Order of Exercises.

I.--Reading of Thanksgiving Proclamation, R. Hunting.

II.--Prayer.

III.--Hymn (prepared for the occasion).

TUNE--Auld Lang Syne.

  We meet, the Sons of Freedom's Sires
    Unchanged, where'er we roam,
  While gather round their household fires
    The happy bands of home;
  And while across the far blue wave
    Their prayers go up to God,
  We pledge the faith our fathers gave,--
    The land by Freemen trod!

  The heroes of our Native Land
    Their sacred trust still hold,
  The freedom from a mighty band
    Wrenched by the men of old.
  That lesson to the broad earth given
    We pledge beyond the sea,--
  The land from dark oppression riven,
    A blessing on the free!

IV.--Dinner.

V.--Prayer.

VI.--Address of Hon. Robert J. Walker, introducing Toasts.

     1. The President of the United States.

     Responded to by His Excellency Mr. Adams.

     2. Her Majesty the Queen.

     The Company.

     3. The Day. Devoted to thanking God for our victories in the cause
     of LIBERTY and UNION.

     Responded to by George Thompson, Esq.

     4. The Union. From the Atlantic to the Pacific, from the Lakes to
     the Gulf, from the Source to the Mouth of the Mississippi, forever
     one and inseparable.

     Responded to by Z. K. Pangborn.

     5. The Emancipation Proclamation--Slavery's Epitaph, written by the
     finger of God on the heart of the American President.

     Responded to by Hon. Freeman H. Morse.

     6. The Army and Navy--Immortal champions of freedom, who bleed that
     our country may live.

     Responded to by Capt. Mayne Reid.

     7. WASHINGTON. The Man without a Peer. We follow his
     farewell advice--NEVER TO SURRENDER THE UNION.

     Responded to by Capt. J. C. Hoadley.

     8. The Press. The Tyrant's foe, the People's friend--where it is
     free, despotism must perish.

     Responded to by Mr. Snow.

     9. The Ladies. Our Sweethearts, Wives, Mothers, Daughters, Sisters,
     Friends. Their holy influence will break all chains but those which
     bind our hearts to them.

     The Company.

Benediction.

LITERARY NOTICES.

     RUMOR. By the Author of 'Charles Anchester,'
     'Counterparts,' etc. Boston: Published by T. O. H. P. Burnham, No.
     143 Washington street. New York: H. Dexter Hamilton & Co., 113
     Nassau street; O. S. Felt, 36 Walker street.

'Rumor' is a book of genius, but genius of a peculiar character. Gleams of intuition into the
most secret recesses of the heart, analyses of hidden feelings, flash brilliantly upon us from
every leaf, and yet a vague mysticism broods over all. No steady light illumes the pages; scenes
and characters float before as if shrouded in mist, or dimmed by distance. The shadowy forms,
held only by the heart, shimmer and float before us, draped in starry veils and seen through
hues of opal. We are in Dreamland, or in the fair clime of the Ideal. 'Porphyro' we know to
be Louis Napoleon, but who are 'Rodomant and Diamid?' Adelaida and deafness would point to
Beethoven, but other circumstances forbid the identification. Nor do we think Rodomant a fair
type of a musical genius; arrogant, overbearing, and positively ill-mannered as he invariably
is. He may be true to German nature, as he is pictured as a German, but he is no study of the
graceful Italian or elegant and suave Sclavic Artist. We think the authoress unjust and cruel
in her sketch of that ethereal child of genius and suffering, Chopin. Did she study exclusively
in the German schools of musical art? If Beethoven is grand and majestic, Chopin is sublime;
if Beethoven is pathetic, Chopin is pathos itself; if the one is broad and comprehensive, the
other is high and deep; the one appealing to the soul through a noble intellect, the other
reaching it through every nerve and fibre of our basic being. Rubens is a great artist, but
does that gainsay Raphael? Are not Beethoven and Chopin twin stars of undying glory in the
musical firmament, and can we not offer true homage to both, as they blaze so high above us?
Shall the royal purple so daze our eyes, that we cannot see the depths of heavenly blue?

Meantime we advise the admirers of 'Charles Anchester' to read 'Rumor;' it is a book of wider
knowledge and deeper intuitions.

     GENERAL BUTLER IN NEW ORLEANS. History of the
     Administration of the Department of the Gulf, in the year 1862;
     with an account of the Capture of New Orleans, and a sketch of the
     previous career of the General, civil and military. By JAMES
     PARTON, Author of the 'Life and Times of Aaron Burr,' 'Life of
     Andrew Jackson,' etc., etc. New York: Mason Brothers, 5 and 7
     Mercer street. Boston: Mason & Hamlin. Philadelphia: J. B.
     Lippincott & Co. London: D. Appleton &. Co., 16 Little Britain,
     1864.

Nothing is more difficult than, amid the whirl of passing events, to form just estimates of
living men. Either our knowledge of the facts may be incomplete, or, if the external facts
be known, we may be ignorant of the character and motives of the individual. No public man
has made warmer friends or more bitter enemies than General Butler. History will probably,
in the future, pronounce a just and impartial decision in the case. Meantime all that the public
can learn regarding his political and military career will be eagerly examined.

     TALES OF A WAY-SIDE INN. By HENRY WADSWORTH
     LONGFELLOW. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. For sale by D. Appleton
     & Co., New York.

The mere announcement of a new book by H. W. Longfellow, is sufficient to secure for it the
attention of all who read or love poetry. Long before the critic can pronounce upon its merits,
it will be found in the hands of thousands. Longfellow is perhaps the most popular among American
poets. His rhythm is always varied and musical, his diction in good taste, his treatment ever
adapted to the subject he has in hand. If he seldom strikes the deepest chords of being, his
touch is always true, tender, and sympathetic. 'The Birds of Killingworth' is full of beauty.
If the 'Tale of a Poet,' it is also a song of the sage. The 'Children's Hour' is charming in
its home love and naive grace. 'Weariness' is simple as a child's song, but full of natural
and true pathos. Let it pleasure our poet that in this sweet, sad chant of his, he has the
warm sympathies of his fellow men. Let him not weary thinking of the task yet before the 'little
feet,' but rather rejoice in the sunshine he has himself been able to throw o'er the path in
which the 'little feet' must walk.

     THE THOUGHTS OF THE EMPEROR M. AURELIUS ANTONINUS.
     Translated by GEORGE LONG. Boston; Ticknor & Fields. For
     sale by D. Appleton & Co., New York.

Antoninus was born at Rome, A. D. 121, embraced the Stoic philosophy from conviction, and,
though an emperor, lived in accordance with its stern spirit. This little book has been the
companion of many of our greatest men. That it still lives, and is still read by all who delight
in bold and vigorous thought, is sufficient proof of its excellence. It has been rendered into
English, French, Italian, and Spanish.

     REVERIES OF A BACHELOR; or, A Book of the Heart. By
     IK. MARVEL. A new edition. New York: Charles Scribner, 124
     Grand street.

     DREAM LIFE: A Fable of the Seasons. By IK. MARVEL.
     A new edition. Charles Scribner, 124 Grand street, New York.

The old type of these books has from constant use grown so worn and battered as to be unfit
for further use, and it has been found necessary from the constant demand, to issue entirely
new editions. And beautiful editions indeed we have before us. Print and paper alike excellent,
and pleasant binding in vivid green and lustrous gold. It were surely useless to commend Ik.
Marvel now to our readers, since no one ever attained to more rapid popularity. His sketches
are always graceful and genial, his style of singular elegance. He wins his way to our heart
and awakens our interest we scarcely know how, for he is marvellously unpretending and simple
in his delineations of life. Our author says in his Preface to the new edition of the 'Reveries
of a Bachelor:' 'The houses where I was accustomed to linger, show other faces at the windows;
bright and cheery faces, it is true; but they are looking over at a young fellow upon the other
side of the way.'

We would whisper to him: 'Nay, not so. Humanity is ever grateful to its true and earnest friends,
and have borne thee over in triumph to the fair clime of the Ideal, where undying affections
await thee; and ever-yearning loves shall keep thee ever young. Spring flowers are forever
blooming in our hearts as thou breathest upon them, and age is but a name for thy immortal
youth, O friend of dreamy hours and tender reveries.'

     MY FARM OF EDGEWOOD: A Country Book. By the Author of
     'Reveries of a Bachelor.' Eighth Edition. New York: Charles
     Scribner.

A book of farm experience from Ik. Marvel cannot fail to awaken the interest of the community.
If the author sees with the eye of the poet, his imagination is no ignis-fatuus fire to mislead
and bewilder him when moving among the practical things of life. He begins with the beginning,
the search and finding of the farm. Every page is pregnant with valuable hints to the farmer
as well as to the gentleman and scholar. The book is a real picture of country life, its pains,
trials, pursuits, and pleasures, and the most varied information is given with respect to what
it might be made, what it should become. A single glance at the varied table of contents would
be sufficient to convince the reader of the great interest of the topics so pleasantly treated
in the volume before us. We extract a few of them: Around the House; My Bees; What to do with
the Farm; A Sunny Frontage; Laborers; Farm Buildings; The Cattle; The Hill Land; The Farm Flat;
Soiling; An Old Orchard; The Pears; My Garden; Fine Tilth makes Fine Crops; Seeding and Trenching;
How a Garden should look; The lesser Fruits; Grapes; Plums, Apricots, and Peaches; The Poultry;
Is it Profitable? Debit and Credit; Money-making Farmers; Does Farming Pay? Agricultural Chemistry;
Isolation of Farmers; Dickering; The Bright Side; Place for Science; Æsthetics of the Business;
Walks; Shrubbery; Rural Decoration; Flowers; L'Envoi.

     LETTERS TO THE JONESES. By TIMOTHY TITCOMB,
     Author of 'Letters to Young People,' 'Gold Foil,' 'Lessons in
     Life,' etc., etc. Eighth edition. Charles Scribner, 124 Grand
     street, New York.

A work evincing strong practical common sense, and acute discrimination. Our author is a poet,
but no mysticism or sentimentalism disfigures his pages; he is a clear, keen observer and analyzer
of human nature, lashing its vices, discerning its foibles, and reading its subterfuges and
petty vanities. He says: 'The only apologies which he offers for appearing as a censor and
a teacher, are his love of men, his honest wish to do them good, and his sad consciousness
that his nominal criticisms of others are too often actual condemnations of himself.'

He addresses himself in a series of letters to the Joneses of Jonesville, each Jones addressed
being a typal character and such as is of frequent occurrence in our midst. Homely and excellent
advice, appropriate to their faults and needs, is administered to each individual Jones in
turn, as he falls under the salutary but sharp scalpel of this keen dissector. There are twenty-four
letters, consequently twenty-four studies from life, true to reality and detailed as a Dutch
picture. We feel our own faults and foibles bared before us as we read. While these pages are
very interesting to the general reader, the divine may learn from them how best in his preaching
to aim his shafts at personal follies, and the novelist find models for his living portraitures
and varied pictures.

     THE WATER BABIES: a Fairy Tale for a Land Baby. By the
     Rev. Charles Kingsley, Author of 'Two Years Ago,' 'Amyas Leigh,'
     etc. With illustrations by J. Noel Paten, B. S. A. Boston: T. O. H.
     P. Burnham. New York: O. S. Felt, 36 Walker St., 1864.

A lively tale, dedicated to the author's youngest son, and calculated to entertain the elders
who read aloud, as well as the children who listen. There are in it many tender touches, and
numberless satiric blows administered in Mr. Kingsley's own peculiar way.

     ADVENTURES OF DICK ONSLOW AMONG THE RED SKINS. A Book for
     Boys. With Illustrations. Edited by William H. G. Kingston. Boston:
     J. E. Tilton & Co. 1864.

Stories of the Western wilderness, and of life among the Indians, are
sure to meet with favor in the eyes of American boys, the descendants of
a race of pioneers. For sale by D.
     Appleton & Co., New York.

This is a useful book, containing sundry items of military information, and many vivid descriptions
of land and naval engagements during the present war--all interesting to young people.

     LOUIE'S LAST TERM AT ST. MARY'S. By the author of
     'Rutledge,' 'The Sutherlands,' 'Frank Warrington,' etc. New York:
     Carleton, publisher, 413 Broadway, 1864.

A book of school life, intended not less for teachers than for the youthful maidens whose various
typal forms act, love, hate, and suffer through its very natural and interesting pages.

     MILTON'S PARADISE LOST. In Twelve Books. New York: Frank
     H. Dodd, 506 Broadway, 1863.

The text is a literal reprint from Keightley's Library edition. Print, binding, and size all
render the tasteful little book a pleasant form in which to possess the greatest epic in the
English tongue.

     THE GAME OF DRAUGHTS. By HENRY SPAYTH, Author of
     'American Draught Player.' Buffalo: Printed for the Author. For
     sale by Sinclair Tousey, New York.

This book has been pronounced by the highest authorities on checkers, both in the Old and New
World, the best work of the kind ever written.

Mr. Sargent has given us a tale of the times--his scenes are laid in our midst. He grapples
with the questions of the hour, handling even Spiritualism as he passes on. Abraham Lincoln,
Jefferson Davis, George Saunders, Senator Wigfall, &c., are sketched in these pages. The story
is founded on the social revelations which Gen. Butler, Gov. Shepley, Gen. Ullman, the Provost-Marshal,
&c., authenticated in New Orleans after the occupation of that city by the United States forces.
These materials have been skilfully handled by the author of 'Peculiar,' and the result is
a novel of graphic power and sustained interest. It will make its own way, as it has the elements
of success. We must, however, give a caution to our readers: 'Kunnle Delaney Hyde' and 'Carberry
Ratcliff' are true as individuals of the South, but it would not be fair to regard them as
typal characters. Let the magnanimous North be just, even to its enemies. Slavery is a great
wrong, as well as a great mistake in political economy; men are by no means good enough to
be trusted with irresponsible power; slaves have been treated with savage cruelty, and the
institution is indeed demoralizing: all this, and a great deal more, we readily grant our writer;
and yet we cannot help wishing he had shown us something to love, to hope for, in our enemy.
He makes an earnest and able protest against a great wrong, and as such we gladly accept his
book; but as a work of art, we think his tale would have held a higher rank had he given us
some of the softer lights of the picture. In this we may be wrong, for a dread Nemesis stalks
even through the plains of the Ideal. To stand up truly for the Right, we must comprehend the
Wrong; meanwhile an important end is answered. We are taught, a lesson we should all learn,
compassion for the negro, and enabled to understand some of his latent traits. For the ability
and tenderness with which this has been done, we have reason to thank Mr. Sargent. The tale
of Estelle is one of pathos and beauty, and 'Peculiar,' the negro, shines in it like a black
diamond of the purest water. The book cannot fail to interest all who trace the cause of the
mighty transition through which we are passing to its true source, the heart of man.

     POEMS BY JEAN INGELOW. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Many of these poems are vague and incomplete, others evince maturity of thought, and are of
singular beauty. We are quite charmed with the 'Songs of Seven.' It is highly original and
tender. The rhythms vary with the chimes of the different ages, always in tune with the joys
and sorrows sung. The poem is full of nature and simple pathos. There is a dewy freshness on
these leaves, as if a young soul were thus pouring its spring carols into song, Jean Ingelow
has been highly commended by the English critics. London: Sampson Low, Son & Company.

With the many stirring events passing around us, the heroic deeds enacted in our midst, it
is fitting that the poet should begin to find his scenes in his own country. Mr. Stedman has
so done in his 'Alice of Monmonth.' The story of the Poem leads us from the fruit fields and
plains of New Jersey, from love scenes and songs, to the din of battle, and the sufferings
of hospitals in Virginia. There are various changes rung in the rhythm, so that it never becomes
monotonous; and many of the descriptive passages are full of beauty.

     DEEP WATERS. A Novel.

Never having before met with a work by Miss Drury, we were quite surprised to find 'Deep Waters'
a novel of so much power. The plot is original, and well managed throughout, the characters
well conceived and sustained, the morals entirely unobjectionable, the style pure, simple,
and unaffected, and the interest uninterrupted. The tale is indeed one of singular beauty.

     IN WAR TIME, and other Poems. By JOHN GREENLEAF
     WHITTIER. Ticknor & Fields, Boston. D. Appleton & Co., New
     York.

If bold, varied, musical rhythm; high and tender thought; hatred of oppression; warm sympathy
with suffering; correct and flowing diction; intense love of nature and power to depict her
in all her moods, joined with a glowing imagination and devout soul, entitle a man to be classed
with the great poets, then may we justly claim that glorious rank for John Greenleaf Whittier.
All honor to him, who, while he charms our fancy and warms our heart, strengthens our souls,
ennobles our views, and bears us, on the wings of his pure imagination, to the gates of heaven.
We are ready to accord him the highest rank among our living poets. No affectations deform
his lines, no conceits his thoughts, no puerilities his descriptions. His 'Huskers,' should
be graven on every American heart; his 'Andrew Rykman's Prayer' on that of every Christian.
We regard this poem as one of the noblest of the age. Humble devotion and heavenly grace are
in its every line. We pity the being who could read it unmoved. We deem 'the world within his
reach' is indeed

  'Somewhat the better for his living,
    And gladder for his human speech.'

It seems useless to us to commend this volume to our readers; the name
of its author must be all-sufficient to attract due attention. Has not
this truly national and patriotic poet a home in every American heart?
If not, he deserves it, and we for one offer him our grateful homage. By J. RAY, M. D. Ticknor &
     Fields, Boston.

This work is not offered as a systematic treatise on Mental Hygiene. Its purpose is to expose
the bad effects of many customs prevalent in modern society, and to present practical suggestions
relative to the attainment of mental soundness and vigor. Many important facts are clearly
stated, and sound deductions drawn from them. The law of sympathy is clearly traced in the
propagation of tastes, aptitudes, and habits. Many curious and startling examples of its effects
are detailed. The author traces the laws of mind, exhibits the consequences that flow from
obeying or disobeying them, in a succinct and able manner. The art of preserving the health
of the mind against incidents and influences calculated to deteriorate its qualities; the management
of the bodily powers in regard to exercise, rest, food, clothing, climate; the laws of breeding,
the government of the passions, the sympathy with current emotions and opinions, the discipline
of the intellect--all come within the scope of the work. It is designed for the general reader,
and will interest all who care for the preservation of mental or physical health.

The subject is one of great importance in our excitable country, where so many minds are overtasked,
so many brains too early stimulated, and insanity so rapidly on the increase. We heartily commend
it to all readers interested in the subjects of which it treats.

       *       *       *       *       *

     [Continuation of Literary Notices prepared for the present issue
     unavoidably crowded out; they will however appear in our next
     number.]

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Since the above was written, the speech of Earl Russell, in Scotland, indicates a disposition
on the part of the British Government to do us justice, at least in the future; and it is to
be hoped that a satisfactory adjustment of all differences on the whole matter may be peacefully
made.

[2] In the 'Letters to Professor Morse,' in the November number of THE CONTINENTAL, a sentence
on page 521, relating to the Confiscation Law, was left incomplete. The sentence, as thus completed,
contains all I cared then to say on the point--my object being mainly to vindicate the justice
and conformity to public law of the policy of confiscation. In the present article I have gone
more at length into the question of the constitutionality of the law of Congress, and have
come to the conclusions herein expressed.

[3] Our whole area is more than sixty times as large as England.

[4] One hundred years have elapsed since that treaty, and the London Times proclaims that England
will not fight for Canada now.

[5] See Alison's History, chap. xxxvii, p. 269.

[6] Kinglake's Crimea Invasion, p. 250.

[7] Kinglake.

[8] See Kinglake's remarks on the design of Louis Napoleon in making St. Arnaud commander-in-chief
of the French army in the Crimean war, p. 321.

[9] Written in August, 1863.

[10] Pansclavism

[11] The following story, in substance, is to be found in Joinville's Memoirs.

[12] There may be extreme cases, few and far between, when the evil contained in laws may justify
their overthrow by revolutionary force--witness our own separation from Great Britain; but
the doctrine is one most unsafe when lightly broached, and we doubt not the Constitution and
laws of the United States offer a basis broad enough for the legal as well as the most judicious
mode of settlement under the present difficulties.--ED. CON.