Transcriber's note:

   Two words in this text contain macrons over double ee. These
   are denoted in the text with [=ee].

   Superscripted text is denoted by the use of the following
   markings: 12^{mi} where "mi" is superscripted.

   A Transcriber's note at the end of the text lists the changes
   made in transcription.

The Modern Library of the World's Best Books

THE BEST GHOST STORIES

Introduction by Arthur B. Reeve

The Modern Library Publishers New York Copyright, 1919, by Boni & Liveright, Inc. Manufactured
in the United States of America by H. Wolff

CONTENTS

                                                                       PAGE

INTRODUCTION--"THE FASCINATION OF THE GHOST STORY"  Arthur B. Reeve   vii

THE APPARITION OF MRS. VEAL                           Daniel De Foe     3

CANON ALBERIC'S SCRAP-BOOK                     Montague Rhodes James   18

THE HAUNTED AND THE HAUNTERS                    Edward Bulwer-Lytton   31

THE SILENT WOMAN                                     Leopold Kompert   60

BANSHEES                                                                 79

THE MAN WHO WENT TOO FAR                                 E.F. Benson   85

THE WOMAN'S GHOST STORY                            Algernon Blackwood 108

THE PHANTOM RICKSHAW                                  Rudyard Kipling 118

THE RIVAL GHOSTS                                     Brander Matthews 141

THE DAMNED THING                                       Ambrose Bierce 160

THE INTERVAL                                       Vincent O'Sullivan 170

DEY AIN'T NO GHOSTS                               Ellis Parker Butler 177

SOME REAL AMERICAN GHOSTS                                               188

INTRODUCTION

THE FASCINATION OF THE GHOST STORY

ARTHUR B. REEVE

What is the fascination we feel for the mystery of the ghost story?

Is it of the same nature as the fascination which we feel for the mystery of the detective story?

Of the latter fascination, the late Paul Armstrong used to say that it was because we are all
as full of crime as Sing Sing--only we don't dare.

Thus, may I ask, are we not fascinated by the ghost story because, no matter what may be the
scientific or skeptical bent of our minds, in our inmost souls, secretly perhaps, we are as
full of superstition as an obeah man--only we don't let it loose?

Who shall say that he is able to fling off lightly the inheritance of countless ages of superstition?
Is there not a streak of superstition in us all? We laugh at the voodoo worshiper--then create
our own hoodooes, our pet obsessions.

It has been said that man is incurably religious, that if all religions were blotted out, man
would create a new religion.

Man is incurably fascinated by the mysterious. If all the ghost stories of the ages were blotted
out, man would invent new ones.

For, do we not all stand in awe of that which we cannot explain, of that which, if it be not
in our own experience, is certainly recorded in the experience of others, of that of which
we know and can know nothing?

Skeptical though one may be of the occult, he must needs be interested in things that others
believe to be objective--that certainly are subjectively very real to them.

The ghost story is not born of science, nor even of super-science, whatever that may be. It
is not of science at all. It is of another sphere, despite all that the psychic researchers
have tried to demonstrate.

There are in life two sorts of people who, for want of a better classification, I may call
the psychic and the non-psychic. If I ask the psychic to close his eyes and I say to him, "Horse,"
he immediately visualizes a horse. The other, non-psychic, does not. I rather incline to believe
that it is the former class who see ghosts, or rather some of them. The latter do not--though
they share interest in them.

The artists are of the visualizing class and, in our more modern times, it is the psychic who
think in motion pictures, or at least in a succession of still pictures.

However we explain the ghostly and supernatural, whether we give it objective or merely subjective
reality, neither explanation prevents the non-psychic from being intensely interested in the
visions of the psychic.

Thus I am convinced that if we were all quite honest with ourselves, whether we believe in
or do not believe in ghosts, at least we are all deeply interested in them. There is in this
interest something that makes all the world akin.

Who does not feel a suppressed start at the creaking of furniture in the dark of night? Who
has not felt a shiver of goose flesh, controlled only by an effort of will? Who, in the dark,
has not had the feeling of some thing behind him--and, in spite of his conscious reasoning,
turned to look?

If there be any who has not, it may be that to him ghost stories have no fascination. Let him
at least, however, be honest.

To every human being mystery appeals, be it that of the crime cases on which a large part of
yellow journalism is founded, or be it in the cases of Dupin, of Le Coq, of Sherlock Holmes,
of Arsene Lupin, of Craig Kennedy, or a host of others of our fiction mystery characters. The
appeal is in the mystery.

The detective's case is solved at the end, however. But even at the end of a ghost story, the
underlying mystery remains. In the ghost story, we have the very quintessence of mystery.

Authors, publishers, editors, dramatists, writers of motion pictures tell us that never before
has there been such an intense and wide interest in mystery stories as there is to-day. That
in itself explains the interest in the super-mystery story of the ghost and ghostly doings.

Another element of mystery lies in such stories. Deeper and further back, is the supreme mystery
of life--after death--what?

"Impossible," scorns the non-psychic as he listens to some ghost story.

To which, doggedly replies the mind of the opposite type, "Not so. I believe because it is
impossible."

The uncanny, the unhealthy--as in the master of such writing, Poe--fascinates. Whether we will
or no, the imp of the perverse lures us on.

That is why we read with enthralled interest these excursions into the eerie unknown, perhaps
reading on till the mystic hour of midnight increases the creepy pleasure.

One might write a volume of analysis and appreciation of this aptly balanced anthology of ghost
stories assembled here after years of reading and study by Mr. J.L. French.

Foremost among the impressions that a casual reader will derive is the interesting fact, just
as in detective mystery stories, so in ghost stories, styles change. Each age, each period
has the ghost story peculiar to itself. To-day, there is a new style of ghost story gradually
evolving.

Once stories were of fairies, fays, trolls, the "little people," of poltergiest and loup garou.
Through various ages we have progressed to the ghost story of the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries until to-day, in the twentieth, we are seeing a modern style, which the new science
is modifying materially.

High among the stories in this volume, one must recognize the masterful art of Algernon Blackwood's
"The Woman's Ghost Story."

"I was interested in psychic things," says the woman as she starts to tell her story simply,
with a sweep toward the climax that has the ring of the truth of fiction. Here perhaps we have
the modern style of ghost story at its best.

Times change as well as styles. "The Man Who Went Too Far" is of intense interest as an attempt
to bring into our own times an interpretation of the symbolism underlying Greek mythology,
applied to England of some years ago.

To see Pan meant death. Hence in this story there is a philosophy of Pan-theism--no "me," no
"you," no "it." It is a mystical story, with a storm scene in which is painted a picture that
reminds one strongly of "The Fall of the House of Ushur,"--with the frankly added words, "On
him were marks of hoofs of a monstrous goat that had leaped on him,"--uncompromising mysticism.

Happy is the Kipling selection, "The Phantom 'Rickshaw," if only for that obiter dictum of
ghost-presence as Kipling explains about the rift in the brain: "--and a little bit of the
Dark World came through and pressed him to death!"

Then there are the racial styles in ghost stories. The volume takes us from the "Banshees and
Other Death Warnings" of Ireland to a strange example of Jewish mysticism in "The Silent Woman."
Mr. French has been very wide in his choice, giving us these as well as many examples from
the literature of England and France. Finally, he has compiled from the newspapers, as typically
American, many ghost stories of New York and other parts of the country.

Strange that one should find humor in a subject so weird. Yet we find it. Take, for instance,
De Foe's old narrative, "The Apparition of Mrs. Veal." It is a hoax, nothing more. Of our own
times is Ellis Parker Butler's "Dey Ain't No Ghosts," showing an example of the modern Negro's
racial heritage.

In our literature and on the stage, the very idea of a Darky and a graveyard is mirth-provoking.

Humor is succeeded by pathos. In "The Interval" we find a sympathetic twist to the ghost story--an
actual desire to meet the dead.

It is not, however, to be compared for interest to the story of sheer terror, as in Bulwer-Lytton's
"The Haunted and the Haunters," with the flight of the servant in terror, the cowering of the
dog against the wall, the death of the dog, its neck actually broken by the terror, and all
that go to make an experience in a haunted house what it should be.

Thus, at last, we come to two of the stories that attempt to give a scientific explanation,
another phase of the modern style of ghost story.

One of these, perhaps hardly modern as far as mere years are concerned, is this same story
of Bulwer, "The Haunted and the Haunters." Besides being a rattling good old-fashioned tale
of horror, it attempts a new-fashioned scientific explanation. It is enough to read and re-read it.

It is, however, the lamented Ambrose Bierce who has gone furthest in the science and the philosophy
of the matter, and in a very short story, too, splendidly titled "The Damned Thing."

          "Incredible!" exclaims the coroner at the inquest.

          "That is nothing to you, sir," replies the
          newspaper man who relates the experience, and in
          these words expresses the true feeling about
          ghostly fiction, "that is nothing to you, if I
          also swear that it is true!"

But furthest of all in his scientific explanation--not scientifically explaining away, but
in explaining the way--goes Bierce as he outlines a theory. From the diary of the murdered
man he picks out the following which we may treasure as a gem:

          "I am not mad. There are colors that we cannot
          see. And--God help me!--the Damned Thing is of
          such a color!"

This fascination of the ghost story--have I made it clear?

As I write, nearing midnight, the bookcase behind me cracks. I start and turn. Nothing. There
is a creak of a board in the hallway.

I know it is the cool night wind--the uneven contraction of materials expanded in the heat
of the day.

Yet--do I go into the darkness outside otherwise than alert?

It is this evolution of our sense of ghost terror--ages of it--that fascinates us.

Can we, with a few generations of modernism behind us, throw it off with all our science? And,
if we did, should we not then succeed only in abolishing the old-fashioned ghost story and
creating a new, scientific ghost story?

Scientific? Yes. But more,--something that has existed since the beginnings of intelligence
in the human race.

Perhaps, you critic, you say that the true ghost story originated in the age of shadowy candle
light and pine knot with their grotesqueries on the walls and in the unpenetrated darkness,
that the electric bulb and the radiator have dispelled that very thing on which, for ages,
the ghost story has been built.

What? No ghost stories? Would you take away our supernatural fiction by your paltry scientific
explanation?

Still will we gather about the story teller--then lie awake o' nights, seeing mocking figures,
arms akimbo, defying all your science to crush the ghost story. The use which we ought to make
of it, is to consider, that there is a life to come after this, and a just God, who will retribute
to every one according to the deeds done in the body; and therefore to reflect upon our past
course of life we have led in the world; that our time is short and uncertain; and that if
we would escape the punishment of the ungodly, and receive the reward of the righteous, which
is the laying hold of eternal life, we ought, for the time to come, to return to God by a speedy
repentance, ceasing to do evil, and learning to do well: to seek after God early, if happily
He may be found of us, and lead such lives for the future, as may be well pleasing in His sight.

A RELATION OF THE APPARITION OF MRS. VEAL

This thing is so rare in all its circumstances, and on so good authority, that my reading and
conversation has not given me anything like it: it is fit to gratify the most ingenious and
serious inquirer. Mrs. Bargrave is the person to whom Mrs. Veal appeared after her death; she
is my intimate friend, and I can avouch for her reputation, for these last fifteen or sixteen
years, on my own knowledge; and I can confirm the good character she had from her youth, to
the time of my acquaintance. Though, since this relation, she is calumniated by some people,
that are friends to the brother of this Mrs. Veal, who appeared; who think the relation of
this appearance to be a reflection, and endeavor what they can to blast Mrs. Bargrave's reputation,
and to laugh the story out of countenance. But by the circumstances thereof, and the cheerful
disposition of Mrs. Bargrave, notwithstanding the ill-usage of a very wicked husband, there
is not yet the least sign of dejection in her face; nor did I ever hear her let fall a desponding
or murmuring expression; nay, not when actually under her husband's barbarity; which I have
been witness to, and several other persons of undoubted reputation.

Now you must know, Mrs. Veal was a maiden gentlewoman of about thirty years of age, and for
some years last past had been troubled with fits; which were perceived coming on her, by her
going off from her discourse very abruptly to some impertinence. She was maintained by an only
brother, and kept his house in Dover. She was a very pious woman, and her brother a very sober
man to all appearance; but now he does all he can to null or quash the story. Mrs. Veal was
intimately acquainted with Mrs. Bargrave from her childhood. Mrs. Veal's circumstances were
then mean; her father did not take care of his children as he ought, so that they were exposed
to hardships; and Mrs. Bargrave, in those days, had as unkind a father, though she wanted neither
for food nor clothing, whilst Mrs. Veal wanted for both; insomuch that she would often say,
Mrs. Bargrave, you are not only the best, but the only friend I have in the world, and no circumstances
of life shall ever dissolve my friendship. They would often condole each other's adverse fortunes,
and read together Drelincourt upon Death, and other good books; and so, like two Christian
friends, they comforted each other under their sorrow.

Some time after, Mr. Veal's friends got him a place in the custom-house at Dover, which occasioned
Mrs. Veal, by little and little, to fall off from her intimacy with Mrs. Bargrave, though there
was never any such thing as a quarrel; but an indifferency came on by degrees, till at last
Mrs. Bargrave had not seen her in two years and a half; though above a twelvemonth of the time
Mrs. Bargrave hath been absent from Dover, and this last half year has been in Canterbury about
two months of the time, dwelling in a house of her own.

In this house, on the 8th of September, 1705, she was sitting alone in the forenoon, thinking
over her unfortunate life, and arguing herself into a due resignation to providence, though
her condition seemed hard. And, said she, I have been provided for hitherto, and doubt not
but I shall be still; and am well satisfied that my afflictions shall end when it is most fit
for me: and then took up her sewing-work, which she had no sooner done, but she hears a knocking
at the door. She went to see who was there, and this proved to be Mrs. Veal, her old friend,
who was in a riding-habit. At that moment of time the clock struck twelve at noon.

Madam, says Mrs. Bargrave, I am surprised to see you, you have been so long a stranger; but
told her, she was glad to see her, and offered to salute her; which Mrs. Veal complied with,
till their lips almost touched; and then Mrs. Veal drew her hand across her own eyes, and said,
I am not very well; and so waived it. She told Mrs. Bargrave, she was going a journey, and
had a great mind to see her first. But, says Mrs. Bargrave, how came you to take a journey
alone? I am amazed at it, because I know you have a fond brother. Oh! says Mrs. Veal, I gave
my brother the slip, and came away because I had so great a desire to see you before I took
my journey. So Mrs. Bargrave went in with her, into another room within the first, and Mrs.
Veal sat her down in an elbow-chair, in which Mrs. Bargrave was sitting when she heard Mrs.
Veal knock. Then says Mrs. Veal, My dear friend, I am come to renew our old friendship again,
and beg your pardon for my breach of it; and if you can forgive me, you are the best of women.
O, says Mrs. Bargrave, do not mention such a thing; I have not had an uneasy thought about
it; I can easily forgive it. What did you think of me? said Mrs. Veal. Says Mrs. Bargrave,
I thought you were like the rest of the world, and that prosperity had made you forget yourself
and me. Then Mrs. Veal reminded Mrs. Bargrave of the many friendly offices she did her in former
days, and much of the conversation they had with each other in the times of their adversity;
what books they read, and what comfort, in particular, they received from Drelincourt's Book
of Death, which was the best, she said, on that subject ever written. She also mentioned Dr.
Sherlock, the two Dutch books which were translated, written upon death, and several others.
But Drelincourt, she said, had the clearest notions of death, and of the future state, of any
who had handled that subject. Then she asked Mrs. Bargrave, whether she had Drelincourt. She
said, Yes. Says Mrs. Veal, Fetch it. And so Mrs. Bargrave goes up stairs and brings it down.
Says Mrs. Veal, Dear Mrs. Bargrave, if the eyes of our faith were as open as the eyes of our
body, we should see numbers of angels about us for our guard. The notions we have of heaven
now, are nothing like what it is, as Drelincourt says; therefore be comforted under your afflictions,
and believe that the Almighty has a particular regard to you; and that your afflictions are
marks of God's favor; and when they have done the business they are sent for, they shall be
removed from you. And believe me, my dear friend, believe what I say to you, one minute of
future happiness will infinitely reward you for all your sufferings. For, I can never believe
(and claps her hand upon her knee with great earnestness, which indeed ran through most of
her discourse), that ever God will suffer you to spend all your days in this afflicted state;
but be assured, that your afflictions shall leave you, or you them, in a short time. She spake
in that pathetical and heavenly manner, that Mrs. Bargrave wept several times, she was so deeply
affected with it.

Then Mrs. Veal mentioned Dr. Kenrick's Ascetick, at the end of which he gives an account of
the lives of the primitive Christians. Their pattern she recommended to our imitation, and
said, their conversation was not like this of our age: For now, says she, there is nothing
but frothy, vain discourse, which is far different from theirs. Theirs was to edification,
and to build one another up in faith; so that they were not as we are, nor are we as they were:
but, says she, we ought to do as they did. There was an hearty friendship among them; but where
is it now to be found? Says Mrs. Bargrave, It is hard indeed to find a true friend in these
days. Says Mrs. Veal, Mr. Norris has a fine copy of verses, called Friendship in Perfection,
which I wonderfully admire. Have you seen the book? says Mrs. Veal. No, says Mrs. Bargrave,
but I have the verses of my own writing out. Have you? says Mrs. Veal, then fetch them. Which
she did from above stairs, and offered them to Mrs. Veal to read, who refused, and waived the
thing, saying, holding down her head would make it ache; and then desired Mrs. Bargrave to
read them to her, which she did. As they were admiring friendship, Mrs. Veal said, Dear Mrs.
Bargrave, I shall love you for ever. In these verses there is twice used the word Elysian.
Ah! says Mrs. Veal, these poets have such names for heaven. She would often draw her hands
across her own eyes, and say, Mrs. Bargrave, do not you think I am mightily impaired by my
fits? No, says Mrs. Bargrave, I think you look as well as ever I knew you. After all this discourse,
which the apparition put in much finer words than Mrs. Bargrave said she could pretend to,
and as much more than she can remember, (for it cannot be thought, that an hour and three quarters'
conversation could all be retained, though the main of it she thinks she does,) she said to
Mrs. Bargrave, she would have her write a letter to her brother, and tell him, she would have
him give rings to such and such; and that there was a purse of gold in her cabinet, and that
she would have two broad pieces given to her cousin Watson.

Talking at this rate, Mrs. Bargrave thought that a fit was coming upon her, and so placed herself
in a chair just before her knees, to keep her from falling to the ground, if her fits should
occasion it: for the elbow-chair, she thought, would keep her from falling on either side.
And to divert Mrs. Veal, as she thought, took hold of her gown-sleeve several times, and commended
it. Mrs. Veal told her, it was a scowered silk, and newly made up. But for all this, Mrs. Veal
persisted in her request, and told Mrs. Bargrave, she must not deny her: and she would have
her tell her brother all their conversation, when she had opportunity. Dear Mrs. Veal, says
Mrs. Bargrave, this seems so impertinent, that I cannot tell how to comply with it; and what
a mortifying story will our conversation be to a young gentleman? Why, says Mrs. Bargrave,
it is much better, methinks, to do it yourself. No, says Mrs. Veal, though it seems impertinent
to you now, you will see more reason for it hereafter. Mrs. Bargrave then, to satisfy her importunity,
was going to fetch a pen and ink; but Mrs. Veal said, Let it alone now, but do it when I am
gone; but you must be sure to do it: which was one of the last things she enjoined her at parting;
and so she promised her.

Then Mrs. Veal asked for Mrs. Bargrave's daughter; she said, she was not at home: But if you
have a mind to see her, says Mrs. Bargrave, I'll send for her. Do, says Mrs. Veal. On which
she left her, and went to a neighbor's to seek for her; and by the time Mrs. Bargrave was returning,
Mrs. Veal was got without the door in the street, in the face of the beast-market, on a Saturday,
which is market-day, and stood ready to part, as soon as Mrs. Bargrave came to her. She asked
her, why she was in such haste. She said she must be going, though perhaps she might not go
her journey till Monday; and told Mrs. Bargrave, she hoped she should see her again at her
cousin Watson's, before she went whither she was going. Then she said, she would take her leave
of her, and walked from Mrs. Bargrave in her view, till a turning interrupted the sight of
her, which was three quarters after one in the afternoon.

Mrs. Veal died the 7th of September, at twelve o'clock at noon of her fits, and had not above
four hours' senses before her death, in which time she received the sacrament. The next day
after Mrs. Veal's appearing, being Sunday, Mrs. Bargrave was mightily indisposed with a cold,
and a sore throat, that she could not go out that day; but on Monday morning she sent a person
to Captain Watson's, to know if Mrs. Veal was there. They wondered at Mrs. Bargrave's inquiry;
and sent her word, that she was not there, nor was expected. At this answer Mrs. Bargrave told
the maid she had certainly mistook the name, or made some blunder. And though she was ill,
she put on her hood, and went herself to Captain Watson's though she knew none of the family,
to see if Mrs. Veal was there or not. They said, they wondered at her asking, for that she
had not been in town; they were sure, if she had, she would have been there. Says Mrs. Bargrave,
I am sure she was with me on Saturday almost two hours. They said, it was impossible; for they
must have seen her if she had. In comes Captain Watson, while they were in dispute, and said,
that Mrs. Veal was certainly dead, and her escutcheons were making. This strangely surprised
Mrs. Bargrave, when she sent to the person immediately who had the care of them, and found
it true. Then she related the whole story to Captain Watson's family, and what gown she had
on, and how striped; and that Mrs. Veal told her, it was scowered. Then Mrs. Watson cried out,
You have seen her indeed, for none knew, but Mrs. Veal and myself, that the gown was scowered.
And Mrs. Watson owned, that she described the gown exactly: For, said she, I helped her to
make it up. This Mrs. Watson blazed all about the town, and avouched the demonstration of the
truth of Mrs. Bargrave's seeing Mrs. Veal's apparition. And Captain Watson carried two gentlemen
immediately to Mrs. Bargrave's house, to hear the relation of her own mouth. And when it spread
so fast, that gentlemen and persons of quality, the judicious and skeptical part of the world,
flocked in upon her, it at last became such a task, that she was forced to go out of the way.
For they were, in general, extremely satisfied of the truth of the thing, and plainly saw that
Mrs. Bargrave was no hypochondraic; for she always appears with such a cheerful air, and pleasing
mien, that she has gained the favor and esteem of all the gentry; and it is thought a great
favor, if they can but get the relation from her own mouth. I should have told you before,
that Mrs. Veal told Mrs. Bargrave, that her sister and brother-in-law were just come down from
London to see her. Says Mrs. Bargrave, How came you to order matters so strangely? It could
not be helped, says Mrs. Veal. And her brother and sister did come to see her, and entered
the town of Dover just as Mrs. Veal was expiring. Mrs. Bargrave, asked her, whether she would
drink some tea. Says Mrs. Veal, I do not care if I do; but I'll warrant you, this mad fellow
(meaning Mrs. Bargrave's husband) has broke all your trinkets. But, says Mrs. Bargrave, I'll
get something to drink in for all that; but Mrs. Veal waived it, and said, It is no matter,
let it alone; and so it passed.

All the time I sat with Mrs. Bargrave, which was some hours, she recollected fresh sayings
of Mrs. Veal. And one material thing more she told Mrs. Bargrave, that old Mr. Breton allowed
Mrs. Veal ten pounds a year; which was a secret, and unknown to Mrs. Bargrave, till Mrs. Veal
told it her.

Mrs. Bargrave never varies in her story; which puzzles those who doubt of the truth, or are
unwilling to believe it. A servant in the neighbor's yard, adjoining to Mrs. Bargrave's house,
heard her talking to somebody an hour of the time Mrs. Veal was with her. Mrs. Bargrave went
out to her next neighbor's the very moment she parted with Mrs. Veal, and told her what ravishing
conversation she had with an old friend, and told the whole of it. Drelincourt's Book of Death
is, since this happened, bought up strangely. And it is to be observed, that notwithstanding
all the trouble and fatigue Mrs. Bargrave has undergone upon this account, she never took the
value of a farthing, nor suffered her daughter to take anything of anybody, and therefore can
have no interest in telling the story.

But Mr. Veal does what he can to stifle the matter, and said, he would see Mrs. Bargrave; but
yet it is certain matter of fact that he has been at Captain Watson's since the death of his
sister, and yet never went near Mrs. Bargrave; and some of his friends report her to be a liar,
and that she knew of Mr. Breton's ten pounds a year. But the person who pretends to say so,
has the reputation of a notorious liar, among persons whom I know to be of undoubted credit.
Now Mr. Veal is more of a gentleman than to say she lies; but says, a bad husband has crazed
her. But she needs only present herself, and it will effectually confute that pretense. Mr.
Veal says, he asked his sister on her death-bed, whether she had a mind to dispose of anything?
And she said, No. Now, the things which Mrs. Veal's apparition would have disposed of, were
so trifling, and nothing of justice aimed at in their disposal, that the design of it appears
to me to be only in order to make Mrs. Bargrave so to demonstrate the truth of her appearance,
as to satisfy the world of the reality thereof, as to what she had seen and heard; and to secure
her reputation among the reasonable and understanding part of mankind. And then again, Mr.
Veal owns, that there was a purse of gold; but it was not found in her cabinet, but in a comb-box.
This looks improbable; for that Mrs. Watson owned, that Mrs. Veal was so very careful of the
key of the cabinet, that she would trust nobody with it. And if so, no doubt she would not
trust her gold out of it. And Mrs. Veal's often drawing her hand over her eyes, and asking
Mrs. Bargrave whether her fits had not impaired her, looks to me as if she did it on purpose
to remind Mrs. Bargrave of her fits, to prepare her not to think it strange that she should
put her upon writing to her brother to dispose of rings and gold, which looked so much like
a dying person's request; and it took accordingly with Mrs. Bargrave, as the effects of her
fits coming upon her; and was one of the many instances of her wonderful love to her, and care
of her, that she should not be affrighted; which indeed appears in her whole management, particularly
in her coming to her in the day-time, waiving the salutation, and when she was alone; and then
the manner of her parting, to prevent a second attempt to salute her.

Now, why Mr. Veal should think this relation a reflection, as it is plain he does, by his endeavoring
to stifle it, I cannot imagine; because the generality believe her to be a good spirit, her
discourse was so heavenly. Her two great errands were to comfort Mrs. Bargrave in her affliction,
and to ask her forgiveness for the breach of friendship, and with a pious discourse to encourage
her. So that, after all, to suppose that Mrs. Bargrave could hatch such an invention as this
from Friday noon till Saturday noon, supposing that she knew of Mrs. Veal's death the very
first moment, without jumbling circumstances, and without any interest too; she must be more
witty, fortunate, and wicked too, than any indifferent person, I dare say, will allow. I asked
Mrs. Bargrave several times, if she was sure she felt the gown? She answered modestly, If my
senses be to be relied on, I am sure of it. I asked her, if she heard a sound when she clapped
her hand upon her knee? She said, she did not remember she did; but said she appeared to be
as much a substance as I did, who talked with her. And I may, said she, be as soon persuaded,
that your apparition is talking to me now, as that I did not really see her: for I was under
no manner of fear, and received her as a friend, and parted with her as such. I would not,
says she, give one farthing to make any one believe it: I have no interest in it; nothing but
trouble is entailed upon me for a long time, for aught I know; and had it not come to light
by accident, it would never have been made public. But now, she says, she will make her own
private use of it, and keep herself out of the way as much as she can; and so she has done
since. She says, She had a gentleman who came thirty miles to her to hear the relation; and
that she had told it to a room full of people at a time. Several particular gentlemen have
had the story from Mrs. Bargrave's own mouth.

This thing has very much affected me, and I am as well satisfied, as I am of the best-grounded
matter of fact. And why we should dispute matter of fact, because we cannot solve things of
which we can have no certain or demonstrative notions, seems strange to me. Mrs. Bargrave's
authority and sincerity alone, would have been undoubted in any other case.

TO THE READER

The origin of the foregoing curious story seems to have been as follows:--

An adventurous bookseller had ventured to print a considerable edition of a work by the Reverend
Charles Drelincourt, minister of the Calvinist church in Paris, and translated by M. D'Assigny,
under the title of "The Christian's Defense against the Fear of Death, with several directions
how to prepare ourselves to die well."

De Foe's genius and audacity devised a plan which, for assurance and ingenuity, defied even
the powers of Mr. Puff in the Critic: for who but himself would have thought of summoning up
a ghost from the grave to bear witness in favor of a halting body of divinity? There is a matter-of-fact,
business-like style in the whole account of the transaction, which bespeaks ineffable powers
of self-possession. The narrative is drawn up "by a gentleman, a Justice of Peace at Maidstone,
in Kent, a very intelligent person." And, moreover, "the discourse is attested by a very sober
gentlewoman, who lives in Canterbury, within a few doors of the house in which Mrs. Bargrave
lives." The Justice believes his kinswoman to be of so discerning a spirit, as not to be put
upon by any fallacy--and the kinswoman positively assures the Justice, "that the whole matter,
as it is related and laid down, is really true, and what she herself heard, as near as may
be, from Mrs. Bargrave's own mouth, who, she knows, had no reason to invent or publish such
a story, or any design to forge and tell a lie, being a woman of so much honesty and virtue,
and her whole life a course, as it were, of piety." Skepticism itself could not resist this
triple court of evidence so artfully combined, the Justice attesting for the discerning spirit
of the sober and understanding gentlewoman his kinswoman, and his kinswoman becoming bail for
the veracity of Mrs. Bargrave. And here, gentle reader, admire the simplicity of those days.
Had Mrs. Veal's visit to her friend happened in our time, the conductors of the daily press
would have given the word, and seven gentlemen unto the said press belonging, would, with an
obedient start, have made off for Kingston, for Canterbury, for Dover,--for Kamchatka if necessary,--to
pose the Justice, cross-examine Mrs. Bargrave, confront the sober and understanding kinswoman,
and dig Mrs. Veal up from her grave, rather than not get to the bottom of the story. But in
our time we doubt and scrutinize; our ancestors wondered and believed.

Before the story is commenced, the understanding gentlewoman (not the Justice of Peace), who
is the reporter, takes some pains to repel the objections made against the story by some of
the friends of Mrs. Veal's brother, who consider the marvel as an aspersion on their family,
and do what they can to laugh it out of countenance. Indeed, it is allowed, with admirable
impartiality, that Mr. Veal is too much of a gentleman to suppose Mrs. Bargrave invented the
story--scandal itself could scarce have supposed that--although one notorious liar, who is
chastised towards the conclusion of the story, ventures to throw out such an insinuation. No
reasonable or respectable person, however, could be found to countenance the suspicion, and
Mr. Veal himself opined that Mrs. Bargrave had been driven crazy by a cruel husband, and dreamed
the whole story of the apparition. Now all this is sufficiently artful. To have vouched the
fact as universally known, and believed by every one, nem. con., would not have been half so
satisfactory to a skeptic as to allow fairly that the narrative had been impugned, and hint
at the character of one of those skeptics, and the motives of another, as sufficient to account
for their want of belief. Now to the fact itself.

Mrs. Bargrave and Mrs. Veal had been friends in youth, and had protested their attachment should
last as long as they lived; but when Mrs. Veal's brother obtained an office in the customs
at Dover, some cessation of their intimacy ensued, "though without any positive quarrel." Mrs.
Bargrave had removed to Canterbury, and was residing in a house of her own, when she was suddenly
interrupted by a visit from Mrs. Veal, as she was sitting in deep contemplation of certain
distresses of her own. The visitor was in a riding-habit, and announced herself as prepared
for a distant journey (which seems to intimate that spirits have a considerable distance to
go before they arrive at their appointed station, and that the females at least put on a habit
for the occasion). The spirit, for such was the seeming Mrs. Veal, continued to waive the ceremony
of salutation, both in going and coming, which will remind the reader of a ghostly lover's
reply to his mistress in the fine old Scottish ballad:--

          Why should I come within thy bower?
            I am no earthly man;
          And should I kiss thy rosy lips,
            Thy days would not be lang.

They then began to talk in the homely style of middle-aged ladies, and Mrs. Veal proses concerning
the conversations they had formerly held, and the books they had read together. Dr. Kenrick's
Ascetick was also mentioned with approbation by this critical specter [the Doctor's work was
no doubt a tenant of the shelf in some favorite publisher's shop]; and Mr. Norris's Poem on
Friendship, a work, which I doubt, though honored with a ghost's approbation, we may now seek
for as vainly as Correlli tormented his memory to recover the sonata which the devil played
to him in a dream. Presently after, from former habits we may suppose, the guest desires a
cup of tea; but, bethinking herself of her new character, escapes from her own proposal by
recollecting that Mr. Bargrave was in the habit of breaking his wife's china. It would have
been indeed strangely out of character if the spirit had lunched, or breakfasted upon tea and
toast. Such a consummation would have sounded as ridiculous as if the statue of the commander
in Don Juan had not only accepted of the invitation of the libertine to supper, but had also
committed a beefsteak to his flinty jaws and stomach of adamant. A little more conversation
ensued of a less serious nature, and tending to show that even the passage from life to death
leaves the female anxiety about person and dress somewhat alive. The ghost asked Mrs. Bargrave
whether she did not think her very much altered, and Mrs. Bargrave of course complimented her
on her good looks. Mrs. Bargrave also admired the gown which Mrs. Veal wore, and as a mark
of her perfectly restored confidence, the spirit led her into the important secret, that it
was a scoured silk, and lately made up. She informed her also of another secret, namely, that
one Mr. Breton had allowed her ten pounds a year; and, lastly, she requested that Mrs. Bargrave
would write to her brother, and tell him how to distribute her mourning rings, and mentioned
there was a purse of gold in her cabinet. She expressed some wish to see Mrs. Bargrave's daughter;
but when that good lady went to the next door to seek her, she found on her return the guest
leaving the house. She said she must be going, as she had to call upon her cousin Watson (this
appears to be a gratis dictum on the part of the ghost) and, maintaining the character of mortality
to the last, she quietly turned the corner, and walked out of sight.

Then came the news of Mrs. Veal's having died the day before at noon. Says Mrs. Bargrave, "I
am sure she was with me on Saturday almost two hours." And in comes Captain Watson, and says
Mrs. Veal was certainly dead. And then come all the pieces of evidence, and especially the
striped silk gown. And next we have the silly attempts made to discredit the history. Even
Mr. Veal, her brother, was obliged to allow that the gold was found, but with a difference,
and pretended it was not found in a cabinet, but elsewhere; and, in short, we have all the
gossip of says I, and thinks I, and says she, and thinks she, which disputed matters usually
excite in a country town.

When we have thus turned the tale, the seam without, it may be thought too ridiculous to have
attracted notice. But whoever will read it as told by De Foe himself, will agree that, could
the thing have happened in reality, so it would have been told. The sobering the whole supernatural
visit into the language of the middle or low life, gives it an air of probability even in its
absurdity. The ghost of an exciseman's housekeeper, and a seamstress, were not to converse
like Brutus with his Evil Genius. And the circumstances of scoured silks, broken tea-china,
and such like, while they are the natural topics of such persons' conversation, would, one
might have thought, be the last which an inventor would have introduced into a pretended narrative
betwixt the dead and living. In short, the whole is so distinctly circumstantial, that, were
it not for the impossibility, or extreme improbability at least, of such an occurrence, the
evidence could not but support the story.

The effect was most wonderful. Drelincourt upon Death, attested by one who could speak from
experience, took an unequaled run. The copies had hung on the bookseller's hands as heavy as
a pile of lead bullets. They now traversed the town in every direction, like the same balls
discharged from a field-piece. In short, the object of Mrs. Veal's apparition was perfectly
attained.--[See The Miscellaneous Prose Works of Sir Walter Scott, Bart., vol. iv. p. 305,
ed. Let us see what it is you have got."

FOOTNOTES:

[A] We now know that these leaves did contain a considerable fragment of that work, if not
of that actual copy of it.

THE SILENT WOMAN[D]

BY LEOPOLD KOMPERT

The uproarious merriment of a wedding-feast burst forth into the night from a brilliantly lighted
house in the "gasse" (narrow street). It was one of those nights touched with the warmth of
spring, but dark and full of soft mist. Most fitting it was for a celebration of the union
of two yearning hearts to share the same lot, a lot that may possibly dawn in sunny brightness,
but also become clouded and sullen--for a long, long time! But how merry and joyous they were
over there, those people of the happy olden times! They, like us, had their troubles and trials,
and when misfortune visited them it came not to them with soft cushions and tender pressures
of the hand. Rough and hard, with clinched fist, it laid hold upon them. But when they gave
vent to their happy feelings and sought to enjoy themselves, they were like swimmers in cooling
waters. They struck out into the stream with freshness and courage, suffered themselves to
be borne along by the current whithersoever it took its course. This was the cause of such
a jubilee, such a thoughtlessly noisy outburst of all kinds of soul-possessing gayety from
this house of nuptials.

"And if I had known," the bride's father, the rich Ruben Klattaner, had just said, "that it
would take the last gulden in my pocket, then out it would have come."

In fact, it did appear as if the last groschen had really taken flight, and was fluttering
about in the form of platters heaped up with geese and pastry-tarts. Since two o'clock--that
is, since the marriage ceremony had been performed out in the open street--until nearly midnight,
the wedding-feast had been progressing, and even yet the sarvers, or waiters, were hurrying
from room to room. It was as if a twofold blessing had descended upon all this abundance of
food and drink, for, in the first place, they did not seem to diminish; secondly, they ever
found a new place for disposal. To be sure, this appetite was sharpened by the presence of
a little dwarf-like, unimportant-looking man. He was esteemed, however, none the less highly
by every one. They had specially written to engage the celebrated "Leb Narr," of Prague. And
when was ever a mood so out of sorts, a heart so imbittered as not to thaw out and laugh if
Leb Narr played one of his pranks. Ah, thou art now dead, good fool! Thy lips, once always
ready with a witty reply, are closed. Thy mouth, then never still, now speaks no more! But
when the hearty peals of laughter once rang forth at thy command, intercessors, as it were,
in thy behalf before the very throne of God, thou hadst nothing to fear. And the joy of that
"other" world was thine, that joy that has ever belonged to the most pious of country rabbis!

In the mean time the young people had assembled in one of the rooms to dance. It was strange
how the sound of violins and trumpets accorded with the drolleries of the wit from Prague.
In one part the outbursts of merriment were so boisterous that the very candles on the little
table seemed to flicker with terror; in another an ordinary conversation was in progress, which
now and then only ran over into a loud tittering, when some old lady slipped into the circle
and tried her skill at a redowa, then altogether unknown to the young people. In the very midst
of the tangle of dancers was to be seen the bride in a heavy silk wedding-gown. The point of
her golden hood hung far down over her face. She danced continuously. She danced with every
one that asked her. Had one, however, observed the actions of the young woman, they would certainly
have seemed to him hurried, agitated, almost wild. She looked no one in the eye, not even her
own bridegroom. He stood for the most part in the door-way, and evidently took more pleasure
in the witticisms of the fool than in the dance or the lady dancers. But who ever thought for
a moment why the young woman's hand burned, why her breath was so hot when one came near to
her lips? Who should have noticed so strange a thing? A low whispering already passed through
the company, a stealthy smile stole across many a lip. A bevy of ladies was seen to enter the
room suddenly. The music dashed off into one of its loudest pieces, and, as if by enchantment,
the newly made bride disappeared behind the ladies. The bridegroom, with his stupid, smiling
mien, was still left standing on the threshold. But it was not long before he too vanished.
One could hardly say how it happened. But people understand such skillful movements by experience,
and will continue to understand them as long as there are brides and grooms in the world.

This disappearance of the chief personages, little as it seemed to be noticed, gave, however,
the signal for general leave-taking. The dancing became drowsy; it stopped all at once, as
if by appointment. That noisy confusion now began which always attends so merry a wedding-party.
Half-drunken voices could be heard still intermingled with a last, hearty laugh over a joke
of the fool from Prague echoing across the table. Here and there some one, not quite sure of
his balance, was fumbling for the arm of his chair or the edge of the table. This resulted
in his overturning a dish that had been forgotten, or in spilling a beer-glass. While this,
in turn, set up a new hubbub, some one else, in his eagerness to betake himself from the scene,
fell flat into the very débris. But all this tumult was really hushed the moment they all pressed
to the door, for at that very instant shrieks, cries of pain, were heard issuing from the entrance
below. In an instant the entire outpouring crowd with all possible force pushed back into the
room, but it was a long time before the stream was pressed back again. Meanwhile, painful cries
were again heard from below, so painful, indeed, that they restored even the most drunken to
a state of consciousness.

"By the living God!" they cried to each other, "what is the matter down there? Is the house
on fire?"

"She is gone! she is gone!" shrieked a woman's voice from the entry below.

"Who? who?" groaned the wedding-guests, seized, as it were, with an icy horror.

"Gone! gone!" cried the woman from the entry, and hurrying up the stairs came Selde Klattaner,
the mother of the bride, pale as death, her eyes dilated with most awful fright, convulsively
grasping a candle in her hand. "For God's sake, what has happened?" was heard on every side of her.

The sight of so many people about her, and the confusion of voices, seemed to release the poor
woman from a kind of stupor. She glanced shyly about her then, as if overcome with a sense
of shame stronger than her terror, and said, in a suppressed tone:

"Nothing, nothing, good people. In God's name, I ask, what was there to happen?"

Dissimulation, however, was too evident to suffice to deceive them.

"Why, then, did you shriek so, Selde," called out one of the guests to her, "if nothing happened?"

"Yes, she has gone," Selde now moaned in heart-rending tones, "and she has certainly done herself
some harm!"

The cause of this strange scene was now first discovered. The bride has disappeared from the
wedding-feast. Soon after that she had vanished in such a mysterious way, the bridegroom went
below to the dimly-lighted room to find her, but in vain. At first thought this seemed to him
to be a sort of bashful jest; but not finding her here, a mysterious foreboding seized him.
He called to the mother of the bride:

"Woe to me! This woman has gone!"

Presently this party, that had so admirably controlled itself, was again thrown into commotion.
"There was nothing to do," was said on all sides, "but to ransack every nook and corner. Remarkable
instances of such disappearances of brides had been known. Evil spirits were wont to lurk about
such nights and to inflict mankind with all sorts of sorceries." Strange as this explanation
may seem, there were many who believed it at this very moment, and, most of all, Selde Klattaner
herself. But it was only for a moment, for she at once exclaimed:

"No, no, my good people, she is gone; I know she is gone!"

Now for the first time many of them, especially the mothers, felt particularly uneasy, and
anxiously called their daughters to them. Only a few showed courage, and urged that they must
search and search, even if they had to turn aside the river Iser a hundred times. They urgently
pressed on, called for torches and lanterns, and started forth. The cowardly ran after them
up and down the stairs. Before any one perceived it the room was entirely forsaken.

Ruben Klattaner stood in the hall entry below, and let the people hurry past him without exchanging
a word with any. Bitter disappointment and fear had almost crazed him. One of the last to stay
in the room above with Selde was, strange to say, Leb Narr, of Prague. After all had departed,
he approached the miserable mother, and, in a tone least becoming his general manner, inquired:

"Tell me, now, Mrs. Selde, did she not wish to have 'him'?"

"Whom? whom?" cried Selde, with renewed alarm, when she found herself alone with the fool.

"I mean," said Leb, in a most sympathetic manner, approaching still nearer to Selde, "that
maybe you had to make your daughter marry him."

"Make? And have we, then, made her?" moaned Selde, staring at the fool with a look of uncertainty.

"Then nobody needs to search for her," replied the fool, with a sympathetic laugh, at the same
time retreating. "It's better to leave her where she is."

Without saying thanks or good-night, he was gone.

Meanwhile the cause of all this disturbance had arrived at the end of her flight.

Close by the synagogue was situated the house of the rabbi. It was built in an angle of a very
narrow street, set in a framework of tall shade-trees. Even by daylight it was dismal enough.
At night it was almost impossible for a timid person to approach it, for people declared that
the low supplications of the dead could be heard in the dingy house of God when at night they
took the rolls of the law from the ark to summon their members by name.

Through this retired street passed, or rather ran, at this hour a shy form. Arriving at the
dwelling of the rabbi, she glanced backward to see whether any one was following her. But all
was silent and gloomy enough about her. A pale light issued from one of the windows of the
synagogue; it came from the "eternal lamp" hanging in front of the ark of the covenant. But
at this moment it seemed to her as if a supernatural eye was gazing upon her. Thoroughly affrighted,
she seized the little iron knocker of the door and struck it gently. But the throb of her beating
heart was even louder, more violent, than this blow. After a pause, footsteps were heard passing
slowly along the hallway.

The rabbi had not occupied this lonely house a long time. His predecessor, almost a centenarian
in years, had been laid to rest a few months before. The new rabbi had been called, from a
distant part of the country. He was unmarried, and in the prime of life. No one had known him
before his coming. But his personal nobility and the profundity of his scholarship made up
for his deficiency in years. An aged mother had accompanied him from their distant home, and
she took the place of wife and child.

"Who is there?" asked the rabbi, who had been busy at his desk even at this late hour and thus
had not missed hearing the knocker.

"It is I," the figure without responded, almost inaudibly.

"Speak louder, if you wish me to hear you," replied the rabbi.

"It is I, Ruben Klattaner's daughter," she repeated.

The name seemed to sound strange to the rabbi. He as yet knew too few of his congregation to
understand that this very day he performed the marriage ceremony of the person who had just
repeated her name. Therefore he called out, after a moment's pause, "What do you wish so late
at night?"

"Open the door, rabbi," she answered, pleadingly, "or I shall die at once!"

The bolt was pushed back. Something gleaming, rustling, glided past the rabbi into the dusky
hall. The light of the candle in his hand was not sufficient to allow him to descry it. Before
he had time to address her, she had vanished past him and had disappeared through the open
door into the room. Shaking his head, the rabbi again bolted the door.

On reëntering the room he saw a woman's form sitting in the chair which he usually occupied.
She had her back turned to him. Her head was bent low over her breast. Her golden wedding-hood,
with its shading lace, was pulled down over her forehead. Courageous and pious as the rabbi
was, he could not rid himself of a feeling of terror.

"Who are you?" he demanded, in a loud tone, as if its sound alone would banish the presence
of this being that seemed to him at this moment to be the production of all the enchantments
of evil spirits.

She raised herself, and cried in a voice that seemed to come from the agony of a human being:

"Do you not know me--me, whom you married a few hours since under the chuppe (marriage-canopy)
to a husband?"

On hearing this familiar voice the rabbi stood speechless. He gazed at the young woman. Now,
indeed, he must regard her as one bereft of reason, rather than as a specter.

"Well, if you are she," he stammered out, after a pause, for it was with difficulty that he
found words to answer, "why are you here and not in the place where you belong?"

"I know no other place to which I belong more than here where I now am!" she answered, severely.

These words puzzled the rabbi still more. Is it really an insane woman before him? He must
have thought so, for he now addressed her in a gentle tone of voice, as we do those suffering
from this kind of sickness, in order not to excite her, and said:

"The place where you belong, my daughter, is in the house of your parents, and, since you have
to-day been made a wife, your place is in your husband's house."

The young woman muttered something which failed to reach the rabbi's ear. Yet he only continued
to think that he saw before him some poor unfortunate whose mind was deranged. After a pause,
he added, in a still gentler tone: "What is your name, then, my child?"

"God, god," she moaned, in the greatest anguish, "he does not even yet know my name!"

"How should I know you," he continued, apologetically, "for I am a stranger in this place?"

This tender remark seemed to have produced the desired effect upon her excited mind.

"My name is Veile," she said, quietly, after a pause.

The rabbi quickly perceived that he had adopted the right tone towards his mysterious guest.

"Veile," he said, approaching nearer her, "what do you wish of me?"

"Rabbi, I have a great sin resting heavily upon my heart," she replied despondently. "I do
not know what to do."

"What can you have done," inquired the rabbi, with a tender look, "that cannot be discussed
at any other time than just now? Will you let me advise you, Veile?"

"No, no," she cried again, violently, "I will not be advised. I see, I know what oppresses
me. Yes, I can grasp it by the hand, it lies so near before me. Is that what you call to be
advised?"

"Very well," returned the rabbi, seeing that this was the very way to get the young woman to
talk--"very well, I say, you are not imagining anything. I believe that you have greatly sinned.
Have you come here then to confess this sin? Do your parents or your husband know anything
about it?"

"Who is my husband?" she interrupted him, impetuously.

Thoughts welled up in the rabbi's heart like a tumultuous sea in which opposing conjectures
cross and recross each other's course. Should he speak with her as with an ordinary sinner?

"Were you, perhaps, forced to be married?" he inquired, as quietly as possible, after a pause.

A suppressed sob, a strong inward struggle, manifesting itself in the whole trembling body,
was the only answer to this question.

"Tell me, my child," said the rabbi, encouragingly.

In such tones as the rabbi had never before heard, so strange, so surpassing any human sounds,
the young woman began:

"Yes, rabbi, I will speak, even though I know that I shall never go from this place alive,
which would be the very best thing for me! No, rabbi, I was not forced to be married. My parents
have never once said to me 'you must,' but my own will, my own desire, rather, has always been
supreme. My husband is the son of a rich man in the community. To enter his family was to be
made the first lady in the gasse, to sit buried in gold and silver. And that very thing, nothing
else, was what infatuated me with him. It was for that that I forced myself, my heart and will,
to be married to him, hard as it was for me. But in my innermost heart I detested him. The
more he loved me, the more I hated him. But the gold and silver had an influence over me. More
and more they cried to me, 'You will be the first lady in the gasse!'"

"Continue," said the rabbi, when she ceased, almost exhausted by these words.

"What more shall I tell you, rabbi?" she began again. "I was never a liar, when a child, or
older, and yet during my whole engagement it has seemed to me as if a big, gigantic lie had
followed me step by step. I have seen it on every side of me. But to-day, when I stood under
the chuppe, rabbi, and he took the ring from his finger and put it on mine, and when I had
to dance at my own wedding with him, whom I now recognized, now for the first time, as the
lie, and--when they led me away----"

This sincere confession escaping from the lips of the young woman, she sobbed aloud and bowed
her head still deeper over her breast. The rabbi gazed upon her in silence. No insane woman
ever spoke like that! Only a soul conscious of its own sin, but captivated by a mysterious
power, could suffer like this!

It was not sympathy which he felt with her; it was much more a living over the sufferings of
the woman. In spite of the confused story, it was all clear to the rabbi. The cause of the
flight from the father's house at this hour also required no explanation. "I know what you
mean," he longed to say, but he could only find words to say: "Speak further, Veile!"

The young woman turned towards him. He had not yet seen her face. The golden hood with the
shading lace hung deeply over it.

"Have I not told you everything?" she said, with a flush of scorn.

"Everything?" repeated the rabbi, inquiringly. He only said this, moreover, through embarrassment.

"Do you tell me now," she cried, at once passionately and mildly, "what am I to do?"

"Veile!" exclaimed the rabbi, entertaining now, for the first time, a feeling of repugnance
for this confidential interview.

"Tell me now!" she pleaded; and before the rabbi could prevent it the young woman threw herself
down at his feet and clasped his knees in her arms. This hasty act had loosened the golden
wedding-hood from her head, and thus exposed her face to view, a face of remarkable beauty.

So overcome was the young rabbi by the sight of it that he had to shade his eyes with his hands,
as if before a sudden flash of lightning.

"Tell me now, what shall I do?" she cried again. "Do you think that I have come from my parents'
home merely to return again without help? You alone in the world must tell me. Look at me!
I have kept all my hair just as God gave it me. It has never been touched by the shears. Should
I, then, do anything to please my husband? I am no wife. I will not be a wife! Tell me, tell
me, what am I to do?"

"Arise, arise," bade the rabbi; but his voice quivered, sounded almost painful.

"Tell me first," she gasped; "I will not rise till then!"

"How can I tell you?" he moaned, almost inaudibly.

"Naphtali!" shrieked the kneeling woman.

But the rabbi staggered backward. The room seemed ablaze before him, like a bright fire. A
sharp cry rang from his breast, as if one suffering from some painful wound had been seized
by a rough hand. In his hurried attempt to free himself from the embrace of the young woman,
who still clung to his knees, it chanced that her head struck heavily against the floor.

"Naphtali!" she cried once again.

"Silence, silence," groaned the rabbi, pressing both hands against his head.

And still again she called out this name, but not with that agonizing cry. It sounded rather
like a commingling of exultation and lamentation.

And again he demanded, "Silence! silence!" but this time so imperiously, so forcibly, that
the young woman lay on the floor as if conjured, not daring to utter a single word.

The rabbi paced almost wildly up and down the room. There must have been a hard, terrible struggle
in his breast. It seemed to the one lying on the floor that she heard him sigh from the depths
of his soul. Then his pacing became calmer; but it did not last long. The fierce conflict again
assailed him. His step grew hurried; it echoed loudly through the awful stillness of the room.
Suddenly he neared the young woman, who seemed to lie there scarcely breathing. He stopped
in front of her. Had any one seen the face of the rabbi at this moment the expression on it
would have filled him with terror. There was a marvelous tranquillity overlying it, the tranquillity
of a struggle for life or death.

"Listen to me now, Veile," he began, slowly. "I will talk with you."

"I listen, rabbi," she whispered.

"But do you hear me well?"

"Only speak," she returned.

"But will you do what I advise you? Will you not oppose it? For I am going to say something
that will terrify you."

"I will do anything that you say. Only tell me," she moaned.

"Will you swear?"

"I will," she groaned.

"No, do not swear yet, until you have heard me," he cried. "I will not force you."

This time came no answer.

"Hear me, then, daughter of Ruben Klattaner," he began, after a pause. "You have a twofold
sin upon your soul, and each is so great, so criminal, that it can only be forgiven by severe
punishment. First you permitted yourself to be infatuated by the gold and silver, and then
you forced your heart to lie. With the lie you sought to deceive the man, even though he had
intrusted you with his all when he made you his wife. A lie is truly a great sin! Streams of
water cannot drown them. They make men false and hateful to themselves. The worst that has
been committed in the world was led in by a lie. That is the one sin."

"I know, I know," sobbed the young woman.

"Now hear me further," began the rabbi again, with a wavering voice, after a short pause. "You
have committed a still greater sin than the first. You have not only deceived your husband,
but you have also destroyed the happiness of another person. You could have spoken, and you
did not. For life you have robbed him of his happiness, his light, his joy, but you did not
speak. What can he now do, when he knows what has been lost to him?"

"Naphtali!" cried the young woman.

"Silence! silence! do not let that name pass your lips again," he demanded, violently. "The
more you repeat it the greater becomes your sin. Why did you not speak when you could have
spoken? God can never easily forgive you that. To be silent, to keep secret in one's breast
what would have made another man happier than the mightiest monarch! Thereby you have made
him more than unhappy. He will nevermore have the desire to be happy. Veile, God in heaven
cannot forgive you for that."

"Silence! silence!" groaned the wretched woman.

"No, Veile," he continued, with a stronger voice, "let me talk now. You are certainly willing
to hear me speak? Listen to me. You must do severe penance for this sin, the twofold sin which
rests upon your head. God is long-suffering and merciful. He will perhaps look down upon your
misery, and will blot out your guilt from the great book of transgressions. But you must become
penitent. Hear, now, what it shall be."

The rabbi paused. He was on the point of saying the severest thing that had ever passed his lips.

"You were silent, Veile," then he cried, "when you should have spoken. Be silent now forever
to all men and to yourself. From the moment you leave this house, until I grant it, you must
be dumb; you dare not let a loud word pass from your mouth. Will you undergo this penance?"

"I will do all you say," moaned the young woman.

"Will you have strength to do it?" he asked, gently.

"I shall be as silent as death," she replied.

"And one thing more I have to say to you," he continued. "You are the wife of your husband.
Return home and be a Jewish wife."

"I understand you," she sobbed in reply.

"Go to your home now, and bring peace to your parents and husband. The time will come when
you may speak, when your sin will be forgiven you. Till then bear what has been laid upon you."

"May I say one thing more?" she cried, lifting up her head.

"Speak," he said.

"Naphtali!"

The rabbi covered his eyes with one hand, with the other motioned her to be silent. But she
grasped his hand, drew it to her lips. Hot tears fell upon it.

"Go now," he sobbed, completely broken down.

She let go the hand. The rabbi had seized the candle, but she had already passed him, and glided
through the dark hall. The door was left open. The rabbi locked it again.

       *       *       *       *       *

Veile returned to her home, as she had escaped, unnoticed. The narrow street was deserted,
as desolate as death. The searchers were to be found everywhere except there where they ought
first to have sought for the missing one. Her mother, Selde, still sat on the same chair on
which she had sunk down an hour ago. The fright had left her like one paralyzed, and she was
unable to rise. What a wonderful contrast this wedding-room, with the mother sitting alone
in it, presented to the hilarity reigning here shortly before! On Veile's entrance her mother
did not cry out. She had no strength to do so. She merely said: "So you have come at last,
my daughter?" as if Veile had only returned from a walk somewhat too long. But the young woman
did not answer to this and similar questions. Finally she signified by gesticulations that
she could not speak. Fright seized the wretched mother a second time, and the entire house
was filled with her lamentations.

Ruben Klattaner and Veile's husband having now returned from their fruitless search, were horrified
on perceiving the change which Veile had undergone. Being men, they did not weep. With staring
eyes they gazed upon the silent young woman, and beheld in her an apparition which had been
dealt with by God's visitation in a mysterious manner.

From this hour began the terrible penance of the young woman.

The impression which Veile's woeful condition made upon the people of the gasse was wonderful.
Those who had danced with her that evening on the wedding now first recalled her excited state.
Her wild actions were now first remembered by many. It must have been an "evil eye," they concluded--a
jealous, evil eye, to which her beauty was hateful. This alone could have possessed her with
a demon of unrest. She was driven by this evil power into the dark night, a sport of these
malicious potencies which pursue men step by step, especially on such occasions. The living
God alone knows what she must have seen that night. Nothing good, else one would not become
dumb. Old legends and tales were revived, each more horrible than the other. Hundreds of instances
were given to prove that this was nothing new in the gasse. Despite this explanation, it is
remarkable that the people did not believe that the young woman was dumb. The most thought
that her power of speech had been paralyzed by some awful fright, but that with time it would
be restored. Under this supposition they called her "Veile the Silent."

There is a kind of human eloquence more telling, more forcible than the loudest words, than
the choicest diction--the silence of woman! Ofttimes they cannot endure the slightest vexation,
but some great, heart-breaking sorrow, some pain from constant renunciation, self-sacrifice,
they suffer with sealed lips--as if, in very truth, they were bound with bars of iron.

It would be difficult to fully describe that long "silent" life of the young woman. It is almost
impossible to cite more than one incident. Veile accompanied her husband to his home, that
house resplendent with that gold and silver which had infatuated her. She was, to be sure,
the "first" woman in the gasse; she had everything in abundance. Indeed, the world supposed
that she had but little cause for complaint. "Must one have everything?" was sometimes queried
in the gasse. "One has one thing; another, another." And, according to all appearances, the
people were right. Veile continued to be the beautiful, blooming woman. Her penance of silence
did not deprive her of a single charm. She was so very happy, indeed, that she did not seem
to feel even the pain of her punishment. Veile could laugh and rejoice, but never did she forget
to be silent. The seemingly happy days, however, were only qualified to bring about the proper
time of trials and temptations. The beginning was easy enough for her, the middle and end were
times of real pain. The first years of their wedded life were childless. "It is well," the
people in the gasse said, "that she has no children, and God has rightly ordained it to be
so. A mother who cannot talk to her child, that would be something awful!" Unexpectedly to
all, she rejoiced one day in the birth of a daughter. And when that affectionate young creature,
her own offspring, was laid upon her breast, and the first sounds were uttered by its lips--that
nameless, eloquent utterance of an infant--she forgot herself not; she was silent!

She was silent also when from day to day that child blossomed before her eyes into fuller beauty.
Nor had she any words for it when, in effusions of tenderness, it stretched forth its tiny
arms, when in burning fever it sought for the mother's hand. For days--yes, weeks--together
she watched at its bedside. Sleep never visited her eyes. But she ever remembered her penance.

Years fled by. In her arms she carried another child. It was a boy. The father's joy was great.
The child inherited its mother's beauty. Like its sister, it grew in health and strength. The
noblest, richest mother, they said, might be proud of such children! And Veile was proud, no
doubt, but this never passed her lips. She remained silent about things which mothers in their
joy often cannot find words enough to express. And although her face many times lighted up
with beaming smiles, yet she never renounced the habitual silence imposed upon her.

The idea that the slightest dereliction of her penance would be accompanied with a curse upon
her children may have impressed itself upon her mind. Mothers will understand better than other
persons what this mother suffered from her penalty of silence.

Thus a part of those years sped away which we are wont to call the best. She still flourished
in her wonderful beauty. Her maiden daughter was beside her, like the bud beside the full-blown
rose. Suitors were already present from far and near, who passed in review before the beautiful
girl. The most of them were excellent young men, and any mother might have been proud in having
her own daughter sought by such. Even then Veile did not undo her penance. Those busy times
of intercourse which keep mothers engaged in presenting the superiorities of their daughters
in the best light were not allowed her. The choice of one of the most favored suitors was made.
Never before did any couple in the gasse equal this in beauty and grace. A few weeks before
the appointed time for the wedding a malignant disease stole on, spreading sorrow and anxiety
over the greater part of the land. Young girls were principally its victims. It seemed to pass
scornfully over the aged and infirm. Veile's daughter was also laid hold upon by it. Before
three days had passed there was a corpse in the house--the bride!

Even then Veile did not forget her penance. When they bore away the corpse to the "good place,"
she did utter a cry of anguish which long after echoed in the ears of the people; she did wring
her hands in despair, but no one heard a word of complaint. Her lips seemed dumb forever. It
was then, when she was seated on the low stool in the seven days of mourning, that the rabbi
came to her, to bring to her the usual consolation for the dead. But he did not speak with
her. He addressed words only to her husband. She herself dared not look up. Only when he turned
to go did she lift her eyes. They, in turn, met the eyes of the rabbi, but he departed without
a farewell.

After her daughter's death Veile was completely broken down. Even that which at her time of
life is still called beauty had faded away within a few days. Her cheeks had become hollow,
her hair gray. Visitors wondered how she could endure such a shock, how body and spirit could
hold together. They did not know that that silence was an iron fetter firmly imprisoning the
slumbering spirits. She had a son, moreover, to whom, as to something last and dearest, her
whole being still clung.

The boy was thirteen years old. His learning in the Holy Scriptures was already celebrated
for miles around. He was the pupil of the rabbi, who had treated him with a love and tenderness
becoming his own father. He said that he was a remarkable child, endowed with rare talents.
The boy was to be sent to Hungary, to one of the most celebrated teachers of the times, in
order to lay the foundation for his sacred studies under this instructor's guidance and wisdom.
Years might perhaps pass before she would see him again. But Veile let her boy go from her
embrace. She did not say a blessing over him when he went; only her lips twitched with the
pain of silence.

Long years expired before the boy returned from the strange land, a full-grown, noble youth.
When Veile had her son with her again a smile played about her mouth, and for a moment it seemed
as if her former beauty had enjoyed a second spring. The extraordinary ability of her son already
made him famous. Wheresoever he went people were delighted with his beauty, and admired the
modesty of his manner, despite such great scholarship.

The next Sabbath the young disciple of the Talmud, scarcely twenty years of age, was to demonstrate
the first marks of this great learning.

The people crowded shoulder to shoulder in this great synagogue. Curious glances were cast
through the lattice-work of the women's gallery above upon the dense throng. Veile occupied
one of the foremost seats. She could see everything that took place below. Her face was extremely
pale. All eyes were turned towards her--the mother, who was permitted to see such a day for
her son! But Veile did not appear to notice what was happening before her. A weariness, such
as she had never felt before, even in her greatest suffering, crept over her limbs. It was
as if she must sleep during her son's address. He had hardly mounted the stairs before the
ark of the laws--hardly uttered his first words--when a remarkable change crossed her face.
Her cheeks burned. She arose. All her vital energy seemed aroused. Her son meanwhile was speaking
down below. She could not have told what he was saying. She did not hear him--she only heard
the murmur of approbation, sometimes low, sometimes loud, which came to her ears from the quarters
of the men. The people were astonished at the noble bearing of the speaker, his melodious speech,
and his powerful energy. When he stopped at certain times to rest it seemed as if one were
in a wood swept by a storm. She could now and then hear a few voices declaring that such a
one had never before been listened to. The women at her side wept; she alone could not. A choking
pain pressed from her breast to her lips. Forces were astir in her heart which struggled for
expression. The whole synagogue echoed with buzzing voices, but to her it seemed as if she
must speak louder than these. At the very moment her son had ended she cried out unconsciously,
violently throwing herself against the lattice-work:

"God! living God! shall I not now speak?" A dead silence followed this outcry. Nearly all had
recognized this voice as that of the "silent woman." A miracle had taken place!

"Speak! speak!" resounded the answer of the rabbi from the men's seats below. "You may now speak!"

But no reply came. Veile had fallen back into her seat, pressing both hands against her breast.
When the women sitting beside her looked at her they were terrified to find that the "silent
woman" had fainted. She was dead! The unsealing of her lips was her last moment.

Long years afterwards the rabbi died. On his death-bed he told those standing about him this
wonderful penance of Veile.

Every girl in the gasse knew the story of the "silent woman."

FOOTNOTES:

[E] From "True Irish Ghost Stories."

[G] A.G. Bradley, Notes on some Irish Superstitions, p. 9.

[H] Occult Review for September, 1913.

THE MAN WHO WENT TOO FAR

BY E.F. BENSON

The little village of St. Faith's nestles in a hollow of wooded hill up on the north bank of
the river Fawn in the county of Hampshire, huddling close round its gray Norman church as if
for spiritual protection against the fays and fairies, the trolls and "little people," who
might be supposed still to linger in the vast empty spaces of the New Forest, and to come after
dusk and do their doubtful businesses. Once outside the hamlet you may walk in any direction
(so long as you avoid the high road which leads to Brockenhurst) for the length of a summer
afternoon without seeing sign of human habitation, or possibly even catching sight of another
human being. Shaggy wild ponies may stop their feeding for a moment as you pass, the white
scuts of rabbits will vanish into their burrows, a brown viper perhaps will glide from your
path into a clump of heather, and unseen birds will chuckle in the bushes, but it may easily
happen that for a long day you will see nothing human. But you will not feel in the least lonely;
in summer, at any rate, the sunlight will be gay with butterflies, and the air thick with all
those woodland sounds which like instruments in an orchestra combine to play the great symphony
of the yearly festival of June. Winds whisper in the birches, and sigh among the firs; bees
are busy with their redolent labor among the heather, a myriad birds chirp in the green temples
of the forest trees, and the voice of the river prattling over stony places, bubbling into
pools, chuckling and gulping round corners, gives you the sense that many presences and companions
are near at hand.

Yet, oddly enough, though one would have thought that these benign and cheerful influences
of wholesome air and spaciousness of forest were very healthful comrades for a man, in so far
as nature can really influence this wonderful human genus which has in these centuries learned
to defy her most violent storms in its well-established houses, to bridle her torrents and
make them light its streets, to tunnel her mountains and plow her seas, the inhabitants of
St. Faith's will not willingly venture into the forest after dark. For in spite of the silence
and loneliness of the hooded night it seems that a man is not sure in what company he may suddenly
find himself, and though it is difficult to get from these villagers any very clear story of
occult appearances, the feeling is widespread. One story indeed I have heard with some definiteness,
the tale of a monstrous goat that has been seen to skip with hellish glee about the woods and
shady places, and this perhaps is connected with the story which I have here attempted to piece
together. It too is well-known to them; for all remember the young artist who died here not
long ago, a young man, or so he struck the beholder, of great personal beauty, with something
about him that made men's faces to smile and brighten when they looked on him. His ghost they
will tell you "walks" constantly by the stream and through the woods which he loved so, and
in especial it haunts a certain house, the last of the village, where he lived, and its garden
in which he was done to death. For my part I am inclined to think that the terror of the Forest
dates chiefly from that day. So, such as the story is, I have set it forth in connected form.
It is based partly on the accounts of the villagers, but mainly on that of Darcy, a friend
of mine and a friend of the man with whom these events were chiefly concerned.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day had been one of untarnished midsummer splendor, and as the sun drew near to its setting,
the glory of the evening grew every moment more crystalline, more miraculous. Westward from
St. Faith's the beechwood which stretched for some miles toward the heathery upland beyond
already cast its veil of clear shadow over the red roofs of the village, but the spire of the
gray church, over-topping all, still pointed a flaming orange finger into the sky. The river
Fawn, which runs below, lay in sheets of sky-reflected blue, and wound its dreamy devious course
round the edge of this wood, where a rough two-planked bridge crossed from the bottom of the
garden of the last house in the village, and communicated by means of a little wicker gate
with the wood itself. Then once out of the shadow of the wood the stream lay in flaming pools
of the molten crimson of the sunset, and lost itself in the haze of woodland distances.

This house at the end of the village stood outside the shadow, and the lawn which sloped down
to the river was still flecked with sunlight. Garden-beds of dazzling color lined its gravel
walks, and down the middle of it ran a brick pergola, half-hidden in clusters of rambler-rose
and purple with starry clematis. At the bottom end of it, between two of its pillars, was slung
a hammock containing a shirt-sleeved figure.

The house itself lay somewhat remote from the rest of the village, and a footpath leading across
two fields, now tall and fragrant with hay, was its only communication with the high road.
It was low-built, only two stories in height, and like the garden, its walls were a mass of
flowering roses. A narrow stone terrace ran along the garden front, over which was stretched
an awning, and on the terrace a young silent-footed man-servant was busied with the laying
of the table for dinner. He was neat-handed and quick with his job, and having finished it
he went back into the house, and reappeared again with a large rough bath-towel on his arm.
With this he went to the hammock in the pergola.

"Nearly eight, sir," he said.

"Has Mr. Darcy come yet?" asked a voice from the hammock.

"No, sir."

"If I'm not back when he comes, tell him that I'm just having a bathe before dinner."

The servant went back to the house, and after a moment or two Frank Halton struggled to a sitting
posture, and slipped out on to the grass. He was of medium height and rather slender in build,
but the supple ease and grace of his movements gave the impression of great physical strength:
even his descent from the hammock was not an awkward performance. His face and hands were of
very dark complexion, either from constant exposure to wind and sun, or, as his black hair
and dark eyes tended to show, from some strain of southern blood. His head was small, his face
of an exquisite beauty of modeling, while the smoothness of its contour would have led you
to believe that he was a beardless lad still in his teens. But something, some look which living
and experience alone can give, seemed to contradict that, and finding yourself completely puzzled
as to his age, you would next moment probably cease to think about that, and only look at this
glorious specimen of young manhood with wondering satisfaction.

He was dressed as became the season and the heat, and wore only a shirt open at the neck, and
a pair of flannel trousers. His head, covered very thickly with a somewhat rebellious crop
of short curly hair, was bare as he strolled across the lawn to the bathing-place that lay
below. Then for a moment there was silence, then the sound of splashed and divided waters,
and presently after, a great shout of ecstatic joy, as he swam up-stream with the foamed water
standing in a frill round his neck. Then after some five minutes of limb-stretching struggle
with the flood, he turned over on his back, and with arms thrown wide, floated down-stream,
ripple-cradled and inert. His eyes were shut, and between half-parted lips he talked gently
to himself.

"I am one with it," he said to himself, "the river and I, I and the river. The coolness and
splash of it is I, and the water-herbs that wave in it are I also. And my strength and my limbs
are not mine but the river's. It is all one, all one, dear Fawn."

       *       *       *       *       *

A quarter of an hour later he appeared again at the bottom of the lawn, dressed as before,
his wet hair already drying into its crisp short curls again. There he paused a moment, looking
back at the stream with the smile with which men look on the face of a friend, then turned
towards the house. Simultaneously his servant came to the door leading on to the terrace, followed
by a man who appeared to be some half-way through the fourth decade of his years. Frank and
he saw each other across the bushes and garden-beds, and each quickening his step, they met
suddenly face to face round an angle of the garden walk, in the fragrance of syringa.

"My dear Darcy," cried Frank, "I am charmed to see you."

But the other stared at him in amazement.

"Frank!" he exclaimed.

"Yes, that is my name," he said laughing, "what is the matter?"

Darcy took his hand.

"What have you done to yourself?" he asked. "You are a boy again."

"Ah, I have a lot to tell you," said Frank. "Lots that you will hardly believe, but I shall
convince you----"

He broke off suddenly, and held up his hand.

"Hush, there is my nightingale," he said.

The smile of recognition and welcome with which he had greeted his friend faded from his face,
and a look of rapt wonder took its place, as of a lover listening to the voice of his beloved.
His mouth parted slightly, showing the white line of teeth, and his eyes looked out and out
till they seemed to Darcy to be focused on things beyond the vision of man. Then something
perhaps startled the bird, for the song ceased.

"Yes, lots to tell you," he said. "Really I am delighted to see you. But you look rather white
and pulled down; no wonder after that fever. And there is to be no nonsense about this visit.
It is June now, you stop here till you are fit to begin work again. Two months at least."

"Ah, I can't trespass quite to that extent."

Frank took his arm and walked him down the grass.

"Trespass? Who talks of trespass? I shall tell you quite openly when I am tired of you, but
you know when we had the studio together, we used not to bore each other. However, it is ill
talking of going away on the moment of your arrival. Just a stroll to the river, and then it
will be dinner-time."

Darcy took out his cigarette case, and offered it to the other.

Frank laughed.

"No, not for me. Dear me, I suppose I used to smoke once. How very odd!"

"Given it up?"

"I don't know. I suppose I must have. Anyhow I don't do it now. I would as soon think of eating
meat."

"Another victim on the smoking altar of vegetarianism?"

"Victim?" asked Frank. "Do I strike you as such?"

He paused on the margin of the stream and whistled softly. Next moment a moor-hen made its
splashing flight across the river, and ran up the bank. Frank took it very gently in his hands
and stroked its head, as the creature lay against his shirt.

"And is the house among the reeds still secure?" he half-crooned to it. "And is the missus
quite well, and are the neighbors flourishing? There, dear, home with you," and he flung it
into the air.

"That bird's very tame," said Darcy, slightly bewildered.

"It is rather," said Frank, following its flight.

       *       *       *       *       *

During dinner Frank chiefly occupied himself in bringing himself up-to-date in the movements
and achievements of this old friend whom he had not seen for six years. Those six years, it
now appeared, had been full of incident and success for Darcy; he had made a name for himself
as a portrait painter which bade fair to outlast the vogue of a couple of seasons, and his
leisure time had been brief. Then some four months previously he had been through a severe
attack of typhoid, the result of which as concerns this story was that he had come down to
this sequestered place to recruit.

"Yes, you've got on," said Frank at the end. "I always knew you would. A.R.A. with more in
prospect. Money? You roll in it, I suppose, and, O Darcy, how much happiness have you had all
these years? That is the only imperishable possession. And how much have you learned? Oh, I
don't mean in Art. Even I could have done well in that."

Darcy laughed.

"Done well? My dear fellow, all I have learned in these six years you knew, so to speak, in
your cradle. Your old pictures fetch huge prices. Do you never paint now?"

Frank shook his head.

"No, I'm too busy," he said.

"Doing what? Please tell me. That is what every one is for ever asking me."

"Doing? I suppose you would say I do nothing."

Darcy glanced up at the brilliant young face opposite him.

"It seems to suit you, that way of being busy," he said. "Now, it's your turn. Do you read?
Do you study? I remember you saying that it would do us all--all us artists, I mean--a great
deal of good if we would study any one human face carefully for a year, without recording a
line. Have you been doing that?"

Frank shook his head again.

"I mean exactly what I say," he said, "I have been doing nothing. And I have never been so
occupied. Look at me; have I not done something to myself to begin with?"

"You are two years younger than I," said Darcy, "at least you used to be. You therefore are
thirty-five. But had I never seen you before I should say you were just twenty. But was it
worth while to spend six years of greatly-occupied life in order to look twenty? Seems rather
like a woman of fashion."

Frank laughed boisterously.

"First time I've ever been compared to that particular bird of prey," he said. "No, that has
not been my occupation--in fact I am only very rarely conscious that one effect of my occupation
has been that. Of course, it must have been if one comes to think of it. It is not very important.
Quite true my body has become young. But that is very little; I have become young."

Darcy pushed back his chair and sat sideways to the table looking at the other.

"Has that been your occupation then?" he asked.

"Yes, that anyhow is one aspect of it. Think what youth means! It is the capacity for growth,
mind, body, spirit, all grow, all get stronger, all have a fuller, firmer life every day. That
is something, considering that every day that passes after the ordinary man reaches the full-blown
flower of his strength, weakens his hold on life. A man reaches his prime, and remains, we
say, in his prime, for ten years, or perhaps twenty. But after his primest prime is reached,
he slowly, insensibly weakens. These are the signs of age in you, in your body, in your art
probably, in your mind. You are less electric than you were. But I, when I reach my prime--I
am nearing it--ah, you shall see."

The stars had begun to appear in the blue velvet of the sky, and to the east the horizon seen
above the black silhouette of the village was growing dove-colored with the approach of moon-rise.
White moths hovered dimly over the garden-beds, and the footsteps of night tip-toed through
the bushes. Suddenly Frank rose.

"Ah, it is the supreme moment," he said softly. "Now more than at any other time the current
of life, the eternal imperishable current runs so close to me that I am almost enveloped in
it. Be silent a minute."

He advanced to the edge of the terrace and looked out standing stretched with arms outspread.
Darcy heard him draw a long breath into his lungs, and after many seconds expel it again. Six
or eight times he did this, then turned back into the lamplight.

"It will sound to you quite mad, I expect," he said, "but if you want to hear the soberest
truth I have ever spoken and shall ever speak, I will tell you about myself. But come into
the garden if it is not too damp for you. I have never told any one yet, but I shall like to
tell you. It is long, in fact, since I have even tried to classify what I have learned."

They wandered into the fragrant dimness of the pergola, and sat down. Then Frank began:

"Years ago, do you remember," he said, "we used often to talk about the decay of joy in the
world. Many impulses, we settled, had contributed to this decay, some of which were good in
themselves, others that were quite completely bad. Among the good things, I put what we may
call certain Christian virtues, renunciation, resignation, sympathy with suffering, and the
desire to relieve sufferers. But out of those things spring very bad ones, useless renunciations,
asceticism for its own sake, mortification of the flesh with nothing to follow, no corresponding
gain that is, and that awful and terrible disease which devastated England some centuries ago,
and from which by heredity of spirit we suffer now, Puritanism. That was a dreadful plague,
the brutes held and taught that joy and laughter and merriment were evil: it was a doctrine
the most profane and wicked. Why, what is the commonest crime one sees? A sullen face. That
is the truth of the matter.

"Now all my life I have believed that we are intended to be happy, that joy is of all gifts
the most divine. And when I left London, abandoned my career, such as it was, I did so because
I intended to devote my life to the cultivation of joy, and, by continuous and unsparing effort,
to be happy. Among people, and in constant intercourse with others, I did not find it possible;
there were too many distractions in towns and work-rooms, and also too much suffering. So I
took one step backwards or forwards, as you may choose to put it, and went straight to Nature,
to trees, birds, animals, to all those things which quite clearly pursue one aim only, which
blindly follow the great native instinct to be happy without any care at all for morality,
or human law or divine law. I wanted, you understand, to get all joy first-hand and unadulterated,
and I think it scarcely exists among men; it is obsolete."

Darcy turned in his chair.

"Ah, but what makes birds and animals happy?" he asked. "Food, food and mating."

Frank laughed gently in the stillness.

"Do not think I became a sensualist," he said. "I did not make that mistake. For the sensualist
carries his miseries pick-a-back, and round his feet is wound the shroud that shall soon enwrap
him. I may be mad, it is true, but I am not so stupid anyhow as to have tried that. No, what
is it that makes puppies play with their own tails, that sends cats on their prowling ecstatic
errands at night?".

He paused a moment.

"So I went to Nature," he said. "I sat down here in this New Forest, sat down fair and square,
and looked. That was my first difficulty, to sit here quiet without being bored, to wait without
being impatient, to be receptive and very alert, though for a long time nothing particular
happened. The change in fact was slow in those early stages."

"Nothing happened?" asked Darcy rather impatiently, with the sturdy revolt against any new
idea which to the English mind is synonymous with nonsense. "Why, what in the world should happen?"

Now Frank as he had known him was the most generous but most quick-tempered of mortal men;
in other words his anger would flare to a prodigious beacon, under almost no provocation, only
to be quenched again under a gust of no less impulsive kindliness. Thus the moment Darcy had
spoken, an apology for his hasty question was half-way up his tongue. But there was no need
for it to have traveled even so far, for Frank laughed again with kindly, genuine mirth.

"Oh, how I should have resented that a few years ago," he said. "Thank goodness that resentment
is one of the things I have got rid of. I certainly wish that you should believe my story--in
fact, you are going to--but that you at this moment should imply that you do not, does not
concern me."

"Ah, your solitary sojournings have made you inhuman," said Darcy, still very English.

"No, human," said Frank. "Rather more human, at least rather less of an ape."

"Well, that was my first quest," he continued, after a moment, "the deliberate and unswerving
pursuit of joy, and my method, the eager contemplation of Nature. As far as motive went, I
daresay it was purely selfish, but as far as effect goes, it seems to me about the best thing
one can do for one's fellow-creatures, for happiness is more infectious than small-pox. So,
as I said, I sat down and waited; I looked at happy things, zealously avoided the sight of
anything unhappy, and by degrees a little trickle of the happiness of this blissful world began
to filter into me. The trickle grew more abundant, and now, my dear fellow, if I could for
a moment divert from me into you one half of the torrent of joy that pours through me day and
night, you would throw the world, art, everything aside, and just live, exist. When a man's
body dies, it passes into trees and flowers. Well, that is what I have been trying to do with
my soul before death."

The servant had brought into the pergola a table with syphons and spirits, and had set a lamp
upon it. As Frank spoke he leaned forward towards the other, and Darcy for all his matter-of-fact
commonsense could have sworn that his companion's face shone, was luminous in itself. His dark
brown eyes glowed from within, the unconscious smile of a child irradiated and transformed
his face. Darcy felt suddenly excited, exhilarated.

"Go on," he said. "Go on. I can feel you are somehow telling me sober truth. I daresay you
are mad; but I don't see that matters."

Frank laughed again.

"Mad?" he said. "Yes, certainly, if you wish. But I prefer to call it sane. However, nothing
matters less than what anybody chooses to call things. God never labels his gifts; He just
puts them into our hands; just as he put animals in the garden of Eden, for Adam to name if
he felt disposed."

"So by the continual observance and study of things that were happy," continued he, "I got
happiness, I got joy. But seeking it, as I did, from Nature, I got much more which I did not
seek, but stumbled upon originally by accident. It is difficult to explain, but I will try.

"About three years ago I was sitting one morning in a place I will show you to-morrow. It is
down by the river brink, very green, dappled with shade and sun, and the river passes there
through some little clumps of reeds. Well, as I sat there, doing nothing, but just looking
and listening, I heard the sound quite distinctly of some flute-like instrument playing a strange
unending melody. I thought at first it was some musical yokel on the highway and did not pay
much attention. But before long the strangeness and indescribable beauty of the tune struck
me. It never repeated itself, but it never came to an end, phrase after phrase ran its sweet
course, it worked gradually and inevitably up to a climax, and having attained it, it went
on; another climax was reached and another and another. Then with a sudden gasp of wonder I
localized where it came from. It came from the reeds and from the sky and from the trees. It
was everywhere, it was the sound of life. It was, my dear Darcy, as the Greeks would have said,
it was Pan playing on his pipes, the voice of Nature. It was the life-melody, the world-melody."

Darcy was far too interested to interrupt, though there was a question he would have liked
to ask, and Frank went on:

"Well, for the moment I was terrified, terrified with the impotent horror of nightmare, and
I stopped my ears and just ran from the place and got back to the house panting, trembling,
literally in a panic. Unknowingly, for at that time I only pursued joy, I had begun, since
I drew my joy from Nature, to get in touch with Nature. Nature, force, God, call it what you
will, had drawn across my face a little gossamer web of essential life. I saw that when I emerged
from my terror, and I went very humbly back to where I had heard the Pan-pipes. But it was
nearly six months before I heard them again."

"Why was that?" asked Darcy.

"Surely because I had revolted, rebelled, and worst of all been frightened. For I believe that
just as there is nothing in the world which so injures one's body as fear, so there is nothing
that so much shuts up the soul. I was afraid, you see, of the one thing in the world which
has real existence. No wonder its manifestation was withdrawn."

"And after six months?"

"After six months one blessed morning I heard the piping again. I wasn't afraid that time.
And since then it has grown louder, it has become more constant. I now hear it often, and I
can put myself into such an attitude towards Nature that the pipes will almost certainly sound.
And never yet have they played the same tune, it is always something new, something fuller,
richer, more complete than before."

"What do you mean by 'such an attitude towards Nature'?" asked Darcy.

"I can't explain that; but by translating it into a bodily attitude it is this."

Frank sat up for a moment quite straight in his chair, then slowly sunk back with arms outspread
and head drooped.

"That," he said, "an effortless attitude, but open, resting, receptive. It is just that which
you must do with your soul."

Then he sat up again.

"One word more," he said, "and I will bore you no further. Nor unless you ask me questions
shall I talk about it again. You will find me, in fact, quite sane in my mode of life. Birds
and beasts you will see behaving somewhat intimately to me, like that moor-hen, but that is
all. I will walk with you, ride with you, play golf with you, and talk with you on any subject
you like. But I wanted you on the threshold to know what has happened to me. And one thing
more will happen."

He paused again, and a slight look of fear crossed his eyes.

"There will be a final revelation," he said, "a complete and blinding stroke which will throw
open to me, once and for all, the full knowledge, the full realization and comprehension that
I am one, just as you are, with life. In reality there is no 'me,' no 'you,' no 'it.' Everything
is part of the one and only thing which is life. I know that that is so, but the realization
of it is not yet mine. But it will be, and on that day, so I take it, I shall see Pan. It may
mean death, the death of my body, that is, but I don't care. It may mean immortal, eternal
life lived here and now and for ever. Then having gained that, ah, my dear Darcy, I shall preach
such a gospel of joy, showing myself as the living proof of the truth, that Puritanism, the
dismal religion of sour faces, shall vanish like a breath of smoke, and be dispersed and disappear
in the sunlit air. But first the full knowledge must be mine."

Darcy watched his face narrowly.

"You are afraid of that moment," he said.

Frank smiled at him.

"Quite true; you are quick to have seen that. But when it comes I hope I shall not be afraid."

For some little time there was silence; then Darcy rose.

"You have bewitched me, you extraordinary boy," he said. "You have been telling me a fairy-story,
and I find myself saying, 'Promise me it is true.'"

"I promise you that," said the other.

"And I know I shan't sleep," added Darcy.

Frank looked at him with a sort of mild wonder as if he scarcely understood.

"Well, what does that matter?" he said.

"I assure you it does. I am wretched unless I sleep."

"Of course I can make you sleep if I want," said Frank in a rather bored voice.

"Well, do."

"Very good: go to bed. I'll come upstairs in ten minutes."

Frank busied himself for a little after the other had gone, moving the table back under the
awning of the veranda and quenching the lamp. Then he went with his quick silent tread upstairs
and into Darcy's room. The latter was already in bed, but very wide-eyed and wakeful, and Frank
with an amused smile of indulgence, as for a fretful child, sat down on the edge of the bed.

"Look at me," he said, and Darcy looked.

"The birds are sleeping in the brake," said Frank softly, "and the winds are asleep. The sea
sleeps, and the tides are but the heaving of its breast. The stars swing slow, rocked in the
great cradle of the Heavens, and----"

He stopped suddenly, gently blew out Darcy's candle, and left him sleeping.

Morning brought to Darcy a flood of hard commonsense, as clear and crisp as the sunshine that
filled his room. Slowly as he woke he gathered together the broken threads of the memories
of the evening which had ended, so he told himself, in a trick of common hypnotism. That accounted
for it all; the whole strange talk he had had was under a spell of suggestion from the extraordinary
vivid boy who had once been a man; all his own excitement, his acceptance of the incredible
had been merely the effect of a stronger, more potent will imposed on his own. How strong that
will was, he guessed from his own instantaneous obedience to Frank's suggestion of sleep. And
armed with impenetrable commonsense he came down to breakfast. Frank had already begun, and
was consuming a large plateful of porridge and milk with the most prosaic and healthy appetite.

"Slept well?" he asked.

"Yes, of course. Where did you learn hypnotism?"

"By the side of the river."

"You talked an amazing quantity of nonsense last night," remarked Darcy, in a voice prickly
with reason.

"Rather. I felt quite giddy. Look, I remembered to order a dreadful daily paper for you. You
can read about money markets or politics or cricket matches."

Darcy looked at him closely. In the morning light Frank looked even fresher, younger, more
vital than he had done the night before, and the sight of him somehow dinted Darcy's armor
of commonsense.

"You are the most extraordinary fellow I ever saw," he said. "I want to ask you some more questions."

"Ask away," said Frank.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the next day or two Darcy plied his friend with many questions, objections and criticisms
on the theory of life and gradually got out of him a coherent and complete account of his experience.
In brief then, Frank believed that "by lying naked," as he put it, to the force which controls
the passage of the stars, the breaking of a wave, the budding of a tree, the love of a youth
and maiden, he had succeeded in a way hitherto undreamed of in possessing himself of the essential
principle of life. Day by day, so he thought, he was getting nearer to, and in closer union
with the great power itself which caused all life to be, the spirit of nature, of force, or
the spirit of God. For himself, he confessed to what others would call paganism; it was sufficient
for him that there existed a principle of life. He did not worship it, he did not pray to it,
he did not praise it. Some of it existed in all human beings, just as it existed in trees and
animals; to realize and make living to himself the fact that it was all one, was his sole aim
and object.

Here perhaps Darcy would put in a word of warning. "Take care," he said. "To see Pan meant
death, did it not?"

Frank's eyebrows would rise at this.

"What does that matter?" he said. "True, the Greeks were always right, and they said so, but
there is another possibility. For the nearer I get to it, the more living, the more vital and
young I become."

"What then do you expect the final revelation will do for you?"

"I have told you," said he. "It will make me immortal."

But it was not so much from speech and argument that Darcy grew to grasp his friend's conception,
as from the ordinary conduct of his life. They were passing, for instance, one morning down
the village street, when an old woman, very bent and decrepit, but with an extraordinary cheerfulness
of face, hobbled out from her cottage. Frank instantly stopped when he saw her.

"You old darling! How goes it all?" he said.

But she did not answer, her dim old eyes were riveted on his face; she seemed to drink in like
a thirsty creature the beautiful radiance which shone there. Suddenly she put her two withered
old hands on his shoulders.

"You're just the sunshine itself," she said, and he kissed her and passed on.

But scarcely a hundred yards further a strange contradiction of such tenderness occurred. A
child running along the path towards them fell on its face, and set up a dismal cry of fright
and pain. A look of horror came into Frank's eyes, and, putting his fingers in his ears, he
fled at full speed down the street, and did not pause till he was out of hearing. Darcy, having
ascertained that the child was not really hurt, followed him in bewilderment.

"Are you without pity then?" he asked.

Frank shook his head impatiently.

"Can't you see?" he asked. "Can't you understand that that sort of thing, pain, anger, anything
unlovely throws me back, retards the coming of the great hour! Perhaps when it comes I shall
be able to piece that side of life on to the other, on to the true religion of joy. At present
I can't."

"But the old woman. Was she not ugly?"

Frank's radiance gradually returned.

"Ah, no. She was like me. She longed for joy, and knew it when she saw it, the old darling."

Another question suggested itself.

"Then what about Christianity?" asked Darcy.

"I can't accept it. I can't believe in any creed of which the central doctrine is that God
who is Joy should have had to suffer. Perhaps it was so; in some inscrutable way I believe
it may have been so, but I don't understand how it was possible. So I leave it alone; my affair
is joy."

They had come to the weir above the village, and the thunder of riotous cool water was heavy
in the air. Trees dipped into the translucent stream with slender trailing branches, and the
meadow where they stood was starred with midsummer blossomings. Larks shot up caroling into
the crystal dome of blue, and a thousand voices of June sang round them. Frank, bare-headed
as was his wont, with his coat slung over his arm and his shirt sleeves rolled up above the
elbow, stood there like some beautiful wild animal with eyes half-shut and mouth half-open,
drinking in the scented warmth of the air. Then suddenly he flung himself face downwards on
the grass at the edge of the stream, burying his face in the daisies and cowslips, and lay
stretched there in wide-armed ecstasy, with his long fingers pressing and stroking the dewy
herbs of the field. Never before had Darcy seen him thus fully possessed by his idea; his caressing
fingers, his half-buried face pressed close to the grass, even the clothed lines of his figure
were instinct with a vitality that somehow was different from that of other men. And some faint
glow from it reached Darcy, some thrill, some vibration from that charged recumbent body passed
to him, and for a moment he understood as he had not understood before, despite his persistent
questions and the candid answers they received, how real, and how realized by Frank, his idea was.

Then suddenly the muscles in Frank's neck became stiff and alert, and he half-raised his head,
whispering, "The Pan-pipes, the Pan-pipes. Close, oh, so close."

Very slowly, as if a sudden movement might interrupt the melody, he raised himself and leaned
on the elbow of his bent arm. His eyes opened wider, the lower lids drooped as if he focused
his eyes on something very far away, and the smile on his face broadened and quivered like
sunlight on still water, till the exultance of its happiness was scarcely human. So he remained
motionless and rapt for some minutes, then the look of listening died from his face, and he
bowed his head satisfied.

"Ah, that was good," he said. "How is it possible you did not hear? Oh, you poor fellow! Did
you really hear nothing?"

A week of this outdoor and stimulating life did wonders in restoring to Darcy the vigor and
health which his weeks of fever had filched from him, and as his normal activity and higher
pressure of vitality returned, he seemed to himself to fall even more under the spell which
the miracle of Frank's youth cast over him. Twenty times a day he found himself saying to himself
suddenly at the end of some ten minutes' silent resistance to the absurdity of Frank's idea:
"But it isn't possible; it can't be possible," and from the fact of his having to assure himself
so frequently of this, he knew that he was struggling and arguing with a conclusion which already
had taken root in his mind. For in any case a visible living miracle confronted him, since
it was equally impossible that this youth, this boy, trembling on the verge of manhood, was
thirty-five. Yet such was the fact.

July was ushered in by a couple of days of blustering and fretful rain, and Darcy, unwilling
to risk a chill, kept to the house. But to Frank this weeping change of weather seemed to have
no bearing on the behavior of man, and he spent his days exactly as he did under the suns of
June, lying in his hammock, stretched on the dripping grass, or making huge rambling excursions
into the forest, the birds hopping from tree to tree after him, to return in the evening, drenched
and soaked, but with the same unquenchable flame of joy burning within him.

"Catch cold?" he would ask, "I've forgotten how to do it, I think. I suppose it makes one's
body more sensible always to sleep out-of-doors. People who live indoors always remind me of
something peeled and skinless."

"Do you mean to say you slept out-of-doors last night in that deluge?" asked Darcy. "And where,
may I ask?"

Frank thought a moment.

"I slept in the hammock till nearly dawn," he said. "For I remember the light blinked in the
east when I awoke. Then I went--where did I go?--oh, yes, to the meadow where the Pan-pipes
sounded so close a week ago. You were with me, do you remember? But I always have a rug if
it is wet."

And he went whistling upstairs.

Somehow that little touch, his obvious effort to recall where he had slept, brought strangely
home to Darcy the wonderful romance of which he was the still half-incredulous beholder. Sleep
till close on dawn in a hammock, then the tramp--or probably scamper--underneath the windy
and weeping heavens to the remote and lonely meadow by the weir! The picture of other such
nights rose before him; Frank sleeping perhaps by the bathing-place under the filtered twilight
of the stars, or the white blaze of moon-shine, a stir and awakening at some dead hour, perhaps
a space of silent wide-eyed thought, and then a wandering through the hushed woods to some
other dormitory, alone with his happiness, alone with the joy and the life that suffused and
enveloped him, without other thought or desire or aim except the hourly and never-ceasing communion
with the joy of nature.

They were in the middle of dinner that night, talking on indifferent subjects, when Darcy suddenly
broke off in the middle of a sentence.

"I've got it," he said. "At last I've got it."

"Congratulate you," said Frank. "But what?"

"The radical unsoundness of your idea. It is this: All nature from highest to lowest is full,
crammed full of suffering; every living organism in nature preys on another, yet in your aim
to get close to, to be one with nature, you leave suffering altogether out; you run away from
it, you refuse to recognize it. And you are waiting, you say, for the final revelation."

Frank's brow clouded slightly.

"Well?" he asked, rather wearily.

"Cannot you guess then when the final revelation will be? In joy you are supreme, I grant you
that; I did not know a man could be so master of it. You have learned perhaps practically all
that nature can teach. And if, as you think, the final revelation is coming to you, it will
be the revelation of horror, suffering, death, pain in all its hideous forms. Suffering does
exist: you hate it and fear it."

Frank held up his hand.

"Stop; let me think," he said.

There was silence for a long minute.

"That never struck me," he said at length. "It is possible that what you suggest is true. Does
the sight of Pan mean that, do you think? Is it that nature, take it altogether, suffers horribly,
suffers to a hideous inconceivable extent? Shall I be shown all the suffering?"

He got up and came round to where Darcy sat.

"If it is so, so be it," he said. "Because, my dear fellow, I am near, so splendidly near to
the final revelation. To-day the pipes have sounded almost without pause. I have even heard
the rustle in the bushes, I believe, of Pan's coming. I have seen, yes, I saw to-day, the bushes
pushed aside as if by a hand, and piece of a face, not human, peered through. But I was not
frightened, at least I did not run away this time."

He took a turn up to the window and back again.

"Yes, there is suffering all through," he said, "and I have left it all out of my search. Perhaps,
as you say, the revelation will be that. And in that case, it will be good-bye. I have gone
on one line. I shall have gone too far along one road, without having explored the other. But
I can't go back now. I wouldn't if I could; not a step would I retrace! In any case, whatever
the revelation is, it will be God. I'm sure of that."

The rainy weather soon passed, and with the return of the sun Darcy again joined Frank in long
rambling days. It grew extraordinarily hotter, and with the fresh bursting of life, after the
rain, Frank's vitality seemed to blaze higher and higher. Then, as is the habit of the English
weather, one evening clouds began to bank themselves up in the west, the sun went down in a
glare of coppery thunder-rack, and the whole earth broiling under an unspeakable oppression
and sultriness paused and panted for the storm. After sunset the remote fires of lightning
began to wink and flicker on the horizon, but when bed-time came the storm seemed to have moved
no nearer, though a very low unceasing noise of thunder was audible. Weary and oppressed by
the stress of the day, Darcy fell at once into a heavy uncomforting sleep.

He woke suddenly into full consciousness, with the din of some appalling explosion of thunder
in his ears, and sat up in bed with racing heart. Then for a moment, as he recovered himself
from the panic-land which lies between sleeping and waking, there was silence, except for the
steady hissing of rain on the shrubs outside his window. But suddenly that silence was shattered
and shredded into fragments by a scream from somewhere close at hand outside in the black garden,
a scream of supreme and despairing terror. Again, and once again it shrilled up, and then a
babble of awful words was interjected. A quivering sobbing voice that he knew, said:

"My God, oh, my God; oh, Christ!"

And then followed a little mocking, bleating laugh. Then was silence again; only the rain hissed
on the shrubs.

All this was but the affair of a moment, and without pause either to put on clothes or light
a candle, Darcy was already fumbling at his door-handle. Even as he opened it he met a terror-stricken
face outside, that of the man-servant who carried a light.

"Did you hear?" he asked.

The man's face was bleached to a dull shining whiteness.

"Yes, sir," he said. "It was the master's voice."

       *       *       *       *       *

Together they hurried down the stairs, and through the dining-room where an orderly table for
breakfast had already been laid, and out on to the terrace. The rain for the moment had been
utterly stayed, as if the tap of the heavens had been turned off, and under the lowering black
sky, not quite dark, since the moon rode somewhere serene behind the conglomerated thunder-clouds,
Darcy stumbled into the garden, followed by the servant with the candle. The monstrous leaping
shadow of himself was cast before him on the lawn; lost and wandering odors of rose and lily
and damp earth were thick about him, but more pungent was some sharp and acrid smell that suddenly
reminded him of a certain châlet in which he had once taken refuge in the Alps. In the blackness
of the hazy light from the sky, and the vague tossing of the candle behind him, he saw that
the hammock in which Frank so often lay was tenanted. A gleam of white shirt was there, as
if a man sitting up in it, but across that there was an obscure dark shadow, and as he approached
the acrid odor grew more intense.

He was now only some few yards away, when suddenly the black shadow seemed to jump into the
air, then came down with tappings of hard hoofs on the brick path that ran down the pergola,
and with frolicsome skippings galloped off into the bushes. When that was gone Darcy could
see quite clearly that a shirted figure sat up in the hammock. For one moment, from sheer terror
of the unseen, he hung on his step, and the servant joining him they walked together to the
hammock.

It was Frank. He was in shirt and trousers only, and he sat up with braced arms. For one half-second
he stared at them, his face a mask of horrible contorted terror. His upper lip was drawn back
so that the gums of the teeth appeared, and his eyes were focused not on the two who approached
him but on something quite close to him; his nostrils were widely expanded, as if he panted
for breath, and terror incarnate and repulsion and deathly anguish ruled dreadful lines on
his smooth cheeks and forehead. Then even as they looked the body sank backwards, and the ropes
of the hammock wheezed and strained.

Darcy lifted him out and carried him indoors. Once he thought there was a faint convulsive
stir of the limbs that lay with so dead a weight in his arms, but when they got inside, there
was no trace of life. But the look of supreme terror and agony of fear had gone from his face,
a boy tired with play but still smiling in his sleep was the burden he laid on the floor. His
eyes had closed, and the beautiful mouth lay in smiling curves, even as when a few mornings
ago, in the meadow by the weir, it had quivered to the music of the unheard melody of Pan's
pipes. Then they looked further.

Frank had come back from his bath before dinner that night in his usual costume of shirt and
trousers only. He had not dressed, and during dinner, so Darcy remembered, he had rolled up
the sleeves of his shirt to above the elbow. Later, as they sat and talked after dinner on
the close sultriness of the evening, he had unbuttoned the front of his shirt to let what little
breath of wind there was play on his skin. The sleeves were rolled up now, the front of the
shirt was unbuttoned, and on his arms and on the brown skin of his chest were strange discolorations
which grew momently more clear and defined, till they saw that the marks were pointed prints,
as if caused by the hoofs of some monstrous goat that had leaped and stamped upon him.

THE WOMAN'S GHOST STORY[I]

BY ALGERNON BLACKWOOD

"Yes," she said, from her seat in the dark corner, "I'll tell you an experience if you care
to listen. And, what's more, I'll tell it briefly, without trimmings--I mean without unessentials.
That's a thing story-tellers never do, you know," she laughed. "They drag in all the unessentials
and leave their listeners to disentangle; but I'll give you just the essentials, and you can
make of it what you please. But on one condition: that at the end you ask no questions, because
I can't explain it and have no wish to."

We agreed. We were all serious. After listening to a dozen prolix stories from people who merely
wished to "talk" but had nothing to tell, we wanted "essentials."

"In those days," she began, feeling from the quality of our silence that we were with her,
"in those days I was interested in psychic things, and had arranged to sit up alone in a haunted
house in the middle of London. It was a cheap and dingy lodging-house in a mean street, unfurnished.
I had already made a preliminary examination in daylight that afternoon, and the keys from
the caretaker, who lived next door, were in my pocket. The story was a good one--satisfied
me, at any rate, that it was worth investigating; and I won't weary you with details as to
the woman's murder and all the tiresome elaboration as to why the place was alive. Enough that
it was.

"I was a good deal bored, therefore, to see a man, whom I took to be the talkative old caretaker,
waiting for me on the steps when I went in at 11 P.M., for I had sufficiently explained that
I wished to be there alone for the night.

"'I wished to show you the room,' he mumbled, and of course I couldn't exactly refuse, having
tipped him for the temporary loan of a chair and table.

"'Come in, then, and let's be quick,' I said.

"We went in, he shuffling after me through the unlighted hall up to the first floor where the
murder had taken place, and I prepared myself to hear his inevitable account before turning
him out with the half-crown his persistence had earned. After lighting the gas I sat down in
the arm-chair he had provided--a faded, brown plush arm-chair--and turned for the first time
to face him and get through with the performance as quickly as possible. And it was in that
instant I got my first shock. The man was not the caretaker. It was not the old fool, Carey,
I had interviewed earlier in the day and made my plans with. My heart gave a horrid jump.

"'Now who are you, pray?' I said. 'You're not Carey, the man I arranged with this afternoon.
Who are you?'

"I felt uncomfortable, as you may imagine. I was a 'psychical researcher,' and a young woman
of new tendencies, and proud of my liberty, but I did not care to find myself in an empty house
with a stranger. Something of my confidence left me. Confidence with women, you know, is all
humbug after a certain point. Or perhaps you don't know, for most of you are men. But anyhow
my pluck ebbed in a quick rush, and I felt afraid.

"'Who are you?' I repeated quickly and nervously. The fellow was well dressed, youngish and
good-looking, but with a face of great sadness. I myself was barely thirty. I am giving you
essentials, or I would not mention it. Out of quite ordinary things comes this story. I think
that's why it has value.

"'No,' he said; 'I'm the man who was frightened to death.'

"His voice and his words ran through me like a knife, and I felt ready to drop. In my pocket
was the book I had bought to make notes in. I felt the pencil sticking in the socket. I felt,
too, the extra warm things I had put on to sit up in, as no bed or sofa was available--a hundred
things dashed through my mind, foolishly and without sequence or meaning, as the way is when
one is really frightened. Unessentials leaped up and puzzled me, and I thought of what the
papers might say if it came out, and what my 'smart' brother-in-law would think, and whether
it would be told that I had cigarettes in my pocket, and was a free-thinker.

"'The man who was frightened to death!' I repeated aghast.

"'That's me,' he said stupidly.

"I stared at him just as you would have done--any one of you men now listening to me--and felt
my life ebbing and flowing like a sort of hot fluid. You needn't laugh! That's how I felt.
Small things, you know, touch the mind with great earnestness when terror is there--real terror.
But I might have been at a middle-class tea-party, for all the ideas I had: they were so ordinary!

"'But I thought you were the caretaker I tipped this afternoon to let me sleep here!' I gasped.
'Did--did Carey send you to meet me?'

"'No,' he replied in a voice that touched my boots somehow. 'I am the man who was frightened
to death. And what is more, I am frightened now!'

"'So am I!' I managed to utter, speaking instinctively. 'I'm simply terrified.'

"'Yes,' he replied in that same odd voice that seemed to sound within me. 'But you are still
in the flesh, and I--am not!'

"I felt the need for vigorous self-assertion. I stood up in that empty, unfurnished room, digging
the nails into my palms and clenching my teeth. I was determined to assert my individuality
and my courage as a new woman and a free soul.

"'You mean to say you are not in the flesh!' I gasped. 'What in the world are you talking about?'

"The silence of the night swallowed up my voice. For the first time I realized that darkness
was over the city; that dust lay upon the stairs; that the floor above was untenanted and the
floor below empty. I was alone in an unoccupied and haunted house, unprotected, and a woman.
I chilled. I heard the wind round the house, and knew the stars were hidden. My thoughts rushed
to policemen and omnibuses, and everything that was useful and comforting. I suddenly realized
what a fool I was to come to such a house alone. I was icily afraid. I thought the end of my
life had come. I was an utter fool to go in for psychical research when I had not the necessary
nerve.

"'Good God!' I gasped. 'If you're not Carey, the man I arranged with, who are you?'

"I was really stiff with terror. The man moved slowly towards me across the empty room. I held
out my arm to stop him, getting up out of my chair at the same moment, and he came to halt
just opposite to me, a smile on his worn, sad face.

"'I told you who I am,' he repeated quietly with a sigh, looking at me with the saddest eyes
I have ever seen, 'and I am frightened still.'

"By this time I was convinced that I was entertaining either a rogue or a madman, and I cursed
my stupidity in bringing the man in without having seen his face. My mind was quickly made
up, and I knew what to do. Ghosts and psychic phenomena flew to the winds. If I angered the
creature my life might pay the price. I must humor him till I got to the door, and then race
for the street. I stood bolt upright and faced him. We were about of a height, and I was a
strong, athletic woman who played hockey in winter and climbed Alps in summer. My hand itched
for a stick, but I had none.

"'Now, of course, I remember,' I said with a sort of stiff smile that was very hard to force.
'Now I remember your case and the wonderful way you behaved . . . .'

"The man stared at me stupidly, turning his head to watch me as I backed more and more quickly
to the door. But when his face broke into a smile I could control myself no longer. I reached
the door in a run, and shot out on to the landing. Like a fool, I turned the wrong way, and
stumbled over the stairs leading to the next story. But it was too late to change. The man
was after me, I was sure, though no sound of footsteps came; and I dashed up the next flight,
tearing my skirt and banging my ribs in the darkness, and rushed headlong into the first room
I came to. Luckily the door stood ajar, and, still more fortunate, there was a key in the lock.
In a second I had slammed the door, flung my whole weight against it, and turned the key.

"I was safe, but my heart was beating like a drum. A second later it seemed to stop altogether,
for I saw that there was some one else in the room besides myself. A man's figure stood between
me and the windows, where the street lamps gave just enough light to outline his shape against
the glass. I'm a plucky woman, you know, for even then I didn't give up hope, but I may tell
you that I have never felt so vilely frightened in all my born days. I had locked myself in
with him!

"The man leaned against the window, watching me where I lay in a collapsed heap upon the floor.
So there were two men in the house with me, I reflected. Perhaps other rooms were occupied
too! What could it all mean? But, as I stared something changed in the room, or in me--hard
to say which--and I realized my mistake, so that my fear, which had so far been physical, at
once altered its character and became psychical. I became afraid in my soul instead of in my
heart, and I knew immediately who this man was.

"'How in the world did you get up here?' I stammered to him across the empty room, amazement
momentarily stemming my fear.

"'Now, let me tell you,' he began, in that odd faraway voice of his that went down my spine
like a knife. 'I'm in different space, for one thing, and you'd find me in any room you went
into; for according to your way of measuring, I'm all over the house. Space is a bodily condition,
but I am out of the body, and am not affected by space. It's my condition that keeps me here.
I want something to change my condition for me, for then I could get away. What I want is sympathy.
Or, really, more than sympathy; I want affection--I want love!'

"While he was speaking I gathered myself slowly upon my feet. I wanted to scream and cry and
laugh all at once, but I only succeeded in sighing, for my emotion was exhausted and a numbness
was coming over me. I felt for the matches in my pocket and made a movement towards the gas jet.

"'I should be much happier if you didn't light the gas,' he said at once, 'for the vibrations
of your light hurt me a good deal. You need not be afraid that I shall injure you. I can't
touch your body to begin with, for there's a great gulf fixed, you know; and really this half-light
suits me best. Now, let me continue what I was trying to say before. You know, so many people
have come to this house to see me, and most of them have seen me, and one and all have been
terrified. If only, oh, if only some one would be not terrified, but kind and loving to me!
Then, you see, I might be able to change my condition and get away.'

"His voice was so sad that I felt tears start somewhere at the back of my eyes; but fear kept
all else in check, and I stood shaking and cold as I listened to him.

"'Who are you then? Of course Carey didn't send you, I know now,' I managed to utter. My thoughts
scattered dreadfully and I could think of nothing to say. I was afraid of a stroke.

"'I know nothing about Carey, or who he is,' continued the man quietly, 'and the name my body
had I have forgotten, thank God; but I am the man who was frightened to death in this house
ten years ago, and I have been frightened ever since, and am frightened still; for the succession
of cruel and curious people who come to this house to see the ghost, and thus keep alive its
atmosphere of terror, only helps to render my condition worse. If only some one would be kind
to me--laugh, speak gently and rationally with me, cry if they like, pity, comfort, soothe
me--anything but come here in curiosity and tremble as you are now doing in that corner. Now,
madam, won't you take pity on me?' His voice rose to a dreadful cry. 'Won't you step out into
the middle of the room and try to love me a little?'

"A horrible laughter came gurgling up in my throat as I heard him, but the sense of pity was
stronger than the laughter, and I found myself actually leaving the support of the wall and
approaching the center of the floor.

"'By God!' he cried, at once straightening up against the window, 'you have done a kind act.
That's the first attempt at sympathy that has been shown me since I died, and I feel better
already. In life, you know, I was a misanthrope. Everything went wrong with me, and I came
to hate my fellow men so much that I couldn't bear to see them even. Of course, like begets
like, and this hate was returned. Finally I suffered from horrible delusions, and my room became
haunted with demons that laughed and grimaced, and one night I ran into a whole cluster of
them near the bed--and the fright stopped my heart and killed me. It's hate and remorse, as
much as terror, that clogs me so thickly and keeps me here. If only some one could feel pity,
and sympathy, and perhaps a little love for me, I could get away and be happy. When you came
this afternoon to see over the house I watched you, and a little hope came to me for the first
time. I saw you had courage, originality, resource--love. If only I could touch your heart,
without frightening you, I knew I could perhaps tap that love you have stored up in your being
there, and thus borrow the wings for my escape!'

"Now I must confess my heart began to ache a little, as fear left me and the man's words sank
their sad meaning into me. Still, the whole affair was so incredible, and so touched with unholy
quality, and the story of a woman's murder I had come to investigate had so obviously nothing
to do with this thing, that I felt myself in a kind of wild dream that seemed likely to stop
at any moment and leave me somewhere in bed after a nightmare.

"Moreover, his words possessed me to such an extent that I found it impossible to reflect upon
anything else at all, or to consider adequately any ways or means of action or escape.

"I moved a little nearer to him in the gloom, horribly frightened, of course, but with the
beginnings of a strange determination in my heart.

"'You women,' he continued, his voice plainly thrilling at my approach, 'you wonderful women,
to whom life often brings no opportunity of spending your great love, oh, if you only could
know how many of us simply yearn for it! It would save our souls, if but you knew. Few might
find the chance that you now have, but if you only spent your love freely, without definite
object, just letting it flow openly for all who need, you would reach hundreds and thousands
of souls like me, and release us! Oh, madam, I ask you again to feel with me, to be kind and
gentle--and if you can to love me a little!'

"My heart did leap within me and this time the tears did come, for I could not restrain them.
I laughed too, for the way he called me 'madam' sounded so odd, here in this empty room at
midnight in a London street, but my laughter stopped dead and merged in a flood of weeping
when I saw how my change of feeling affected him. He had left his place by the window and was
kneeling on the floor at my feet, his hands stretched out towards me, and the first signs of
a kind of glory about his head.

"'Put your arms round me and kiss me, for the love of God!' he cried. 'Kiss me, oh, kiss me,
and I shall be freed! You have done so much already--now do this!'

"I stuck there, hesitating, shaking, my determination on the verge of action, yet not quite
able to compass it. But the terror had almost gone.

"'Forget that I'm a man and you're a woman,' he continued in the most beseeching voice I ever
heard. 'Forget that I'm a ghost, and come out boldly and press me to you with a great kiss,
and let your love flow into me. Forget yourself just for one minute and do a brave thing! Oh,
love me, love me, LOVE ME! and I shall be free!'

"The words, or the deep force they somehow released in the center of my being, stirred me profoundly,
and an emotion infinitely greater than fear surged up over me and carried me with it across
the edge of action. Without hesitation I took two steps forward towards him where he knelt,
and held out my arms. Pity and love were in my heart at that moment, genuine pity, I swear,
and genuine love. I forgot myself and my little tremblings in a great desire to help another soul.

"'I love you! poor, aching, unhappy thing! I love you,' I cried through hot tears; 'and I am
not the least bit afraid in the world.'

"The man uttered a curious sound, like laughter, yet not laughter, and turned his face up to
me. The light from the street below fell on it, but there was another light, too, shining all
round it that seemed to come from the eyes and skin. He rose to his feet and met me, and in
that second I folded him to my breast and kissed him full on the lips again and again."

All our pipes had gone out, and not even a skirt rustled in that dark studio as the story-teller
paused a moment to steady her voice, and put a hand softly up to her eyes before going on again.

"Now, what can I say, and how can I describe to you, all you skeptical men sitting there with
pipes in your mouths, the amazing sensation I experienced of holding an intangible, impalpable
thing so closely to my heart that it touched my body with equal pressure all the way down,
and then melted away somewhere into my very being? For it was like seizing a rush of cool wind
and feeling a touch of burning fire the moment it had struck its swift blow and passed on.
A series of shocks ran all over and all through me; a momentary ecstasy of flaming sweetness
and wonder thrilled down into me; my heart gave another great leap--and then I was alone.

"The room was empty. I turned on the gas and struck a match to prove it. All fear had left
me, and something was singing round me in the air and in my heart like the joy of a spring
morning in youth. Not all the devils or shadows or hauntings in the world could then have caused
me a single tremor.

"I unlocked the door and went all over the dark house, even into kitchen and cellar and up
among the ghostly attics. But the house was empty. Something had left it. I lingered a short
hour, analyzing, thinking, wondering--you can guess what and how, perhaps, but I won't detail,
for I promised only essentials, remember--and then went out to sleep the remainder of the night
in my own flat, locking the door behind me upon a house no longer haunted.

"But my uncle, Sir Henry, the owner of the house, required an account of my adventure, and
of course I was in duty bound to give him some kind of a true story. Before I could begin,
however, he held up his hand to stop me.

"'First,' he said, 'I wish to tell you a little deception I ventured to practice on you. So
many people have been to that house and seen the ghost that I came to think the story acted
on their imaginations, and I wished to make a better test. So I invented for their benefit
another story, with the idea that if you did see anything I could be sure it was not due merely
to an excited imagination.'

"'Then what you told me about a woman having been murdered, and all that, was not the true
story of the haunting?'

"'It was not. The true story is that a cousin of mine went mad in that house, and killed himself
in a fit of morbid terror following upon years of miserable hypochondriasis. It is his figure
that investigators see.'

"'That explains, then,' I gasped----

"'Explains what?'

"I thought of that poor struggling soul, longing all these years for escape, and determined
to keep my story for the present to myself.

"'Explains, I mean, why I did not see the ghost of the murdered woman,' I concluded.

"'Precisely,' said Sir Henry, 'and why, if you had seen anything, it would have had value,
inasmuch as it could not have been caused by the imagination working upon a story you already
knew.'" Bring my horse."

"Probably she was."

THE INTERVAL[J]

BY VINCENT O'SULLIVAN

From The Boston Evening Transcript

Mrs. Wilton passed through a little alley leading from one of the gates which are around Regent's
Park, and came out on the wide and quiet street. She walked along slowly, peering anxiously
from side to side so as not to overlook the number. She pulled her furs closer round her; after
her years in India this London damp seemed very harsh. Still, it was not a fog to-day. A dense
haze, gray and tinged ruddy, lay between the houses, sometimes blowing with a little wet kiss
against the face. Mrs. Wilton's hair and eyelashes and her furs were powdered with tiny drops.
But there was nothing in the weather to blur the sight; she could see the faces of people some
distance off and read the signs on the shops.

Before the door of a dealer in antiques and second-hand furniture she paused and looked through
the shabby uncleaned window at an unassorted heap of things, many of them of great value. She
read the Polish name fastened on the pane in white letters.

"Yes; this is the place."

She opened the door, which met her entrance with an ill-tempered jangle. From somewhere in
the black depths of the shop the dealer came forward. He had a clammy white face, with a sparse
black beard, and wore a skull cap and spectacles. Mrs. Wilton spoke to him in a low voice.

A look of complicity, of cunning, perhaps of irony, passed through the dealer's cynical and
sad eyes. But he bowed gravely and respectfully.

"Yes, she is here, madam. Whether she will see you or not I do not know. She is not always
well; she has her moods. And then, we have to be so careful. The police--Not that they would
touch a lady like you. But the poor alien has not much chance these days."

Mrs. Wilton followed him to the back of the shop, where there was a winding staircase. She
knocked over a few things in her passage and stooped to pick them up, but the dealer kept muttering,
"It does not matter--surely it does not matter." He lit a candle.

"You must go up these stairs. They are very dark; be careful. When you come to a door, open
it and go straight in."

He stood at the foot of the stairs holding the light high above his head and she ascended.

The room was not very large, and it seemed very ordinary. There were some flimsy, uncomfortable
chairs in gilt and red. Two large palms were in corners. Under a glass cover on the table was
a view of Rome. The room had not a business-like look, thought Mrs. Wilton; there was no suggestion
of the office or waiting-room where people came and went all day; yet you would not say that
it was a private room which was lived in. There were no books or papers about; every chair
was in the place it had been placed when the room was last swept; there was no fire and it
was very cold.

To the right of the window was a door covered with a plush curtain. Mrs. Wilton sat down near
the table and watched this door. She thought it must be through it that the soothsayer would
come forth. She laid her hands listlessly one on top of the other on the table. This must be
the tenth seer she had consulted since Hugh had been killed. She thought them over. No, this
must be the eleventh. She had forgotten that frightening man in Paris who said he had been
a priest. Yet of them all it was only he who had told her anything definite. But even he could
do no more than tell the past. He told of her marriage; he even had the duration of it right--twenty-one
months. He told too of their time in India--at least, he knew that her husband had been a soldier,
and said he had been on service in the "colonies." On the whole, though, he had been as unsatisfactory
as the others. None of them had given her the consolation she sought. She did not want to be
told of the past. If Hugh was gone forever, then with him had gone all her love of living,
her courage, all her better self. She wanted to be lifted out of the despair, the dazed aimless
drifting from day to day, longing at night for the morning, and in the morning for the fall
of night, which had been her life since his death. If somebody could assure her that it was
not all over, that he was somewhere, not too far away, unchanged from what he had been here,
with his crisp hair and rather slow smile and lean brown face, that he saw her sometimes, that
he had not forgotten her. . . .

"Oh, Hugh, darling!"

When she looked up again the woman was sitting there before her. Mrs. Wilton had not heard
her come in. With her experience, wide enough now, of seers and fortune-tellers of all kinds,
she saw at once that this woman was different from the others. She was used to the quick appraising
look, the attempts, sometimes clumsy, but often cleverly disguised, to collect some fragments
of information whereupon to erect a plausible vision. But this woman looked as if she took
it out of herself.

Not that her appearance suggested intercourse with the spiritual world more than the others
had done; it suggested that, in fact, considerably less. Some of the others were frail, yearning,
evaporated creatures, and the ex-priest in Paris had something terrible and condemned in his
look. He might well sup with the devil, that man, and probably did in some way or other.

But this was a little fat, weary-faced woman about fifty, who only did not look like a cook
because she looked more like a sempstress. Her black dress was all covered with white threads.
Mrs. Wilton looked at her with some embarrassment. It seemed more reasonable to be asking a
woman like this about altering a gown than about intercourse with the dead. That seemed even
absurd in such a very commonplace presence. The woman seemed timid and oppressed: she breathed
heavily and kept rubbing her dingy hands, which looked moist, one over the other; she was always
wetting her lips, and coughed with a little dry cough. But in her these signs of nervous exhaustion
suggested overwork in a close atmosphere, bending too close over the sewing-machine. Her uninteresting
hair, like a rat's pelt, was eked out with a false addition of another color. Some threads
had got into her hair too.

Her harried, uneasy look caused Mrs. Wilton to ask compassionately: "Are you much worried by
the police?"

"Oh, the police! Why don't they leave us alone? You never know who comes to see you. Why don't
they leave me alone? I'm a good woman. I only think. What I do is no harm to any one." . . .

She continued in an uneven querulous voice, always rubbing her hands together nervously. She
seemed to the visitor to be talking at random, just gabbling, like children do sometimes before
they fall asleep.

"I wanted to explain----" hesitated Mrs. Wilton.

But the woman, with her head pressed close against the back of the chair, was staring beyond
her at the wall. Her face had lost whatever little expression it had; it was blank and stupid.
When she spoke it was very slowly and her voice was guttural.

"Can't you see him? It seems strange to me that you can't see him. He is so near you. He is
passing his arm round your shoulders."

This was a frequent gesture of Hugh's. And indeed at that moment she felt that somebody was
very near her, bending over her. She was enveloped in tenderness. Only a very thin veil, she
felt, prevented her from seeing. But the woman saw. She was describing Hugh minutely, even
the little things like the burn on his right hand.

"Is he happy? Oh, ask him does he love me?"

The result was so far beyond anything she had hoped for that she was stunned. She could only
stammer the first thing that came into her head. "Does he love me?"

"He loves you. He won't answer, but he loves you. He wants me to make you see him; he is disappointed,
I think, because I can't. But I can't unless you do it yourself."

After a while she said:

"I think you will see him again. You think of nothing else. He is very close to us now."

Then she collapsed, and fell into a heavy sleep and lay there motionless, hardly breathing.
Mrs. Wilton put some notes on the table and stole out on tip-toe.

       *       *       *       *       *

She seemed to remember that downstairs in the dark shop the dealer with the waxen face detained
her to show some old silver and jewelry and such like. But she did not come to herself, she
had no precise recollection of anything, till she found herself entering a church near Portland
Place. It was an unlikely act in her normal moments. Why did she go in there? She acted like
one walking in her sleep.

The church was old and dim, with high black pews. There was nobody there. Mrs. Wilton sat down
in one of the pews and bent forward with her face in her hands.

After a few minutes she saw that a soldier had come in noiselessly and placed himself about
half-a-dozen rows ahead of her. He never turned round; but presently she was struck by something
familiar in the figure. First she thought vaguely that the soldier looked like her Hugh. Then,
when he put up his hand, she saw who it was.

She hurried out of the pew and ran towards him. "Oh, Hugh, Hugh, have you come back?"

He looked round with a smile. He had not been killed. It was all a mistake. He was going to
speak. . . .

Footsteps sounded hollow in the empty church. She turned and glanced down the dim aisle.

It was an old sexton or verger who approached. "I thought I heard you call," he said.

"I was speaking to my husband." But Hugh was nowhere to be seen.

"He was here a moment ago." She looked about in anguish. "He must have gone to the door."

"There's nobody here," said the old man gently. "Only you and me. Ladies are often taken funny
since the war. There was one in here yesterday afternoon said she was married in this church
and her husband had promised to meet her here. Perhaps you were married here?"

"No," said Mrs. Wilton, desolately. "I was married in India."

       *       *       *       *       *

It might have been two or three days after that, when she went into a small Italian restaurant
in the Bayswater district. She often went out for her meals now: she had developed an exhausting
cough, and she found that it somehow became less troublesome when she was in a public place
looking at strange faces. In her flat there were all the things that Hugh had used; the trunks
and bags still had his name on them with the labels of places where they had been together.
They were like stabs. In the restaurant, people came and went, many soldiers too among them,
just glancing at her in her corner.

This day, as it chanced, she was rather late and there was nobody there. She was very tired.
She nibbled at the food they brought her. She could almost have cried from tiredness and loneliness
and the ache in her heart.

Then suddenly he was before her, sitting there opposite at the table. It was as it was in the
days of their engagement, when they used sometimes to lunch at restaurants. He was not in uniform.
He smiled at her and urged her to eat, just as he used in those days. . . .

I met her that afternoon as she was crossing Kensington Gardens, and she told me about it.

"I have been with Hugh." She seemed most happy.

"Did he say anything?"

"N-no. Yes. I think he did, but I could not quite hear. My head was so very tired. The next
time----"

       *       *       *       *       *

I did not see her for some time after that. She found, I think, that by going to places where
she had once seen him--the old church, the little restaurant--she was more certain to see him
again. She never saw him at home. But in the street or the park he would often walk along beside
her. Once he saved her from being run over. She said she actually felt his hand grabbing her
arm, suddenly, when the car was nearly upon her.

She had given me the address of the clairvoyant; and it is through that strange woman that
I know--or seem to know--what followed.

Mrs. Wilton was not exactly ill last winter, not so ill, at least, as to keep to her bedroom.
But she was very thin, and her great handsome eyes always seemed to be staring at some point
beyond, searching. There was a look in them that seamen's eyes sometimes have when they are
drawing on a coast of which they are not very certain. She lived almost in solitude: she hardly
ever saw anybody except when they sought her out. To those who were anxious about her she laughed
and said she was very well.

One sunny morning she was lying awake, waiting for the maid to bring her tea. The shy London
sunlight peeped through the blinds. The room had a fresh and happy look.

When she heard the door open she thought that the maid had come in. Then she saw that Hugh
was standing at the foot of the bed. He was in uniform this time, and looked as he had looked
the day he went away.

"Oh, Hugh, speak to me! Will you not say just one word?"

He smiled and threw back his head, just as he used to in the old days at her mother's house
when he wanted to call her out of the room without attracting the attention of the others.
He moved towards the door, still signing to her to follow him. He picked up her slippers on
his way and held them out to her as if he wanted her to put them on. She slipped out of bed
hastily. . . .

       *       *       *       *       *

It is strange that when they came to look through her things after her death the slippers could
never be found.

FOOTNOTE:

[J] Copyright, 1917, by The Boston Transcript Co. Copyright, 1918, by Vincent O'Sullivan.

FOOTNOTE:

[K] Copyright, 1913, by The Century Company.

SOME REAL AMERICAN GHOSTS

THE GIANT GHOST

(Philadelphia Press, Sept. 13, 1896)

A case in point is the Benton, Indiana, ghost, which is attracting much attention. It has been
seen and investigated by many people with reputations for intelligence and good sense, but
so far no explanation of the strange appearance has been found.

A farmer named John W. French and his wife were the first to see this apparition. They live
in the country near Benton, and were driving home one night from a neighbor's. The road passed
an old church, moss-covered and surrounded by a graveyard, overgrown with shrubbery and filled
with the bones of hundreds who once tilled the soil in the locality. Ten years ago an aged
man who lived alone not far from the old church and visited the graveyard almost daily to pray
over the resting place of some relative was foully murdered for the store of gold he was supposed
to have hidden about his hermit abode. The robbers and murderers escaped justice, and the luckless
graybeard was buried in the graveyard where he spent so much time. Just as French and his wife
drew within sight of the white headstones in the churchyard the horses reared back on their
haunches and snorted in terror. French was alarmed, and suspecting highwaymen had been scented
by the horses, he reached for a shotgun which lay in the bottom of the wagon for just such
an emergency. But before his hand touched it he was startled by a scream from his wife. Clutching
his arm she pointed straight ahead and gasped: "Look, John, look!"

Far down the road, just beside the glimmering monuments of the old graveyard, he saw an apparition.
It was that of a man with a long white beard sweeping over his breast. The figure appeared
to be eight feet in height and in one hand it carried a club, such as the brains of the old
man had been beaten out with ten years before. Slowly raising one arm the ghost with a majestic
sweep beckoned French to come ahead. He was too startled to do anything except try to restrain
the prancing horses, which were straining at the harness in attempts to break away and run.
A cold sweat started out all over the body of the farmer as he realized that he was at last
looking at a ghost, and then the sound of his wife's voice came to him begging him to return
the way they had come and escape the doom which seemed impending. French was still too much
scared and excited to control the horses, and as he gazed steadfastly at the fearful white
object in the road it slowly began to move toward the wagon. The club was now raised to its
shoulder, as a soldier carries a rifle, and it seemed to move forward without touching the
ground, like a winged thing.

Then the farmer recovered his faculties and, whirling his team around, he lashed the horses
into a run and began the trip to the house of the friend he had just left. When they arrived
there both the man and his wife were almost fainting from fright.

The next man to see the ghost was Milton Moon. He had the reputation for being not only a man
of intelligence but one without fear. His experience was much the same as that of the Frenches
and it brought about several investigations by parties of citizens. In each case they saw and
were convinced of the actual presence of the ghost without being able to discover any satisfactory
explanation.

SOME FAMOUS GHOSTS OF THE NATIONAL CAPITOL

(Philadelphia Press, Oct. 2, 1898)

The Capitol at Washington is probably the most thoroughly haunted building in the world.

Not less than fifteen well-authenticated ghosts infest it, and some of them are of a more than
ordinarily alarming character.

What particularly inspires this last remark is the fact that the Demon Cat is said to have
made its appearance again, after many years of absence. This is a truly horrific apparition,
and no viewless specter such as the invisible grimalkin that even now trips people up on the
stairs of the old mansion which President Madison and his wife, Dolly, occupied, at the corner
of Eighteenth Street and New York Avenue, after the White House was burned by the British.
That, indeed, is altogether another story; but the feline spook of the Capitol possesses attributes
much more remarkable, inasmuch as it has the appearance of an ordinary pussy when first seen,
and presently swells up to the size of an elephant before the eyes of the terrified observer.

The Demon Cat, in whose regard testimony of the utmost seeming authenticity was put on record
thirty-five years ago, has been missing since 1862. One of the watchmen on duty in the building
shot at it then, and it disappeared. Since then, until now, nothing more has been heard of
it, though one or two of the older policemen of the Capitol force still speak of the spectral
animal in awed whispers.

Their work, when performed in the night, requires more than ordinary nerve, inasmuch as the
interior of the great structure is literally alive with echoes and other suggestions of the
supernatural. In the daytime, when the place is full of people and the noises of busy life,
the professional guides make a point of showing persons how a whisper uttered when standing
on a certain marble block is distinctly audible at another point quite a distance away, though
unheard in the space between.

A good many phenomena of this kind are observable in various parts of the Capitol, and the
extent to which they become augmented in strangeness during the silence of the night may well
be conceived. The silence of any ordinary house is oppressive sometimes to the least superstitious
individual. There are unaccountable noises, and a weird and eerie sort of feeling comes over
him, distracting him perhaps from the perusal of his book. He finds himself indulging in a
vague sense of alarm, though he cannot imagine any cause for it.

Such suggestions of the supernatural are magnified a thousand fold in the Capitol, when the
watchman pursues his lonely beat through the great corridors whose immense spaces impress him
with a sense of solitariness, while the shadows thrown by his lantern gather into strange and
menacing forms.

One of the most curious and alarming of the audible phenomena observable in the Capitol, so
all the watchmen say, is a ghostly footstep that seems to follow anybody who crosses Statuary
Hall at night. It was in this hall, then the chamber of the House of Representatives, that
John Quincy Adams died--at a spot indicated now by a brass tablet set in a stone slab, where
stood his desk. Whether or not it is his ghost that pursues is a question open to dispute,
though it is to be hoped that the venerable ex-President rests more quietly in his grave. At
all events, the performance is unpleasant, and even gruesome for him who walks across that
historic floor, while the white marble statues of dead statesmen placed around the walls seem
to point at him with outstretched arms derisively. Like the man in Coleridge's famous lines he

          "--walks in fear and dread,
           Because he knows a frightful fiend doth close behind him tread."

At all events he is uncertain lest such may be the case. And, of course, the duties of the
watchman oblige him, when so assigned, to patrol the basement of the building, where all sorts
of hobgoblins lie in wait.

One of the Capitol policemen was almost frightened out of his wits one night when a pair of
flaming eyes looked out at him from the vaults under the chamber of the House of Representatives
where the wood is stored for the fires. It was subsequently ascertained that the eyes in question
were those of a fox, which, being chevied through the town, had sought refuge in the cellar
of the edifice occupied by the national Legislature. The animal was killed for the reason which
obliges a white man to slay any innocent beast that comes under his power.

But, speaking of the steps which follow a person at night across the floor of Statuary Hall,
a bold watchman attempted not long ago to investigate them on scientific principles. He suspected
a trick, and so bought a pair of rubber shoes, with the aid of which he proceeded to examine
into the question. In the stillness of the night he made a business of patrolling that portion
of the principal Government edifice, and, sure enough, the footsteps followed along behind
him. He cornered them; it was surely some trickster! There was no possibility for the joker
to get away. But, a moment later, the steps were heard in another part of the hall; they had
evaded him successfully. Similar experiments were tried on other nights, but they all ended
in the same way.

Four years ago there died in Washington an old gentleman who had been employed for thirty-five
years in the Library of Congress. The quarters of that great book collection, while housed
in the Capitol, were distressingly restricted, and much of the cataloguing was done by the
veteran mentioned in a sort of vault in the sub-cellar. This vault was crammed with musty tomes
from floor to ceiling, and practically no air was admitted. It was a wonder that he lived so
long, but, when he came to die, he did it rather suddenly. Anyhow, he became paralyzed and
unable to speak, though up to the time of his actual demise he was able to indicate his wants
by gestures. Among other things, he showed plainly by signs that he wished to be conveyed to
the old library.

This wish of his was not obeyed, for reasons which seemed sufficient to his family, and, finally,
he relinquished it by giving up the ghost. It was afterward learned that he had hidden, almost
undoubtedly, $6000 worth of registered United States bonds among the books in his sub-cellar
den--presumably, concealed between the leaves of some of the moth-eaten volumes of which he
was the appointed guardian. Certainly, there could be no better or less-suspected hiding-place,
but this was just where the trouble came in for the heirs, in whose interest the books were
vainly searched and shaken, when the transfer of the library from the old to its new quarters
was accomplished. The heirs cannot secure a renewal of the bonds by the Government without
furnishing proof of the loss of the originals, which is lacking, and, meanwhile, it is said
that the ghost of the old gentleman haunts the vault in the sub-basement which he used to inhabit,
looking vainly for the missing securities.

The old gentleman referred to had some curious traits, though he was by no means a miser--such
as the keeping of every burnt match that he came across. He would put them away in the drawer
of his private desk, together with expired street-car transfers--the latter done up in neat
bundles, with India-rubber bands.

Quite an intimate friend he had, named Twine, who lost his grip on the perch, so to speak,
about six years back. Mr. Twine dwelt during the working hours of the day in a sort of cage
of iron, like that of Dreyfus, in the basement of the Capitol. As a matter of fact, Dreyfus
does not occupy a cage at all; the notion that he does so arises from a misunderstanding of
the French word "case," which signifies a hut.

However, Twine's cage was a real one of iron wire, and inside of it he made a business of stamping
the books of the library with a mixture made of alcohol and lampblack. If the observation of
casual employees about the Capitol is to be trusted, Mr. Twine's ghost is still engaged at
intervals in the business of stamping books at the old stand, though his industry must be very
unprofitable since the Government's literary collection has been moved out of the Capitol.

Ghosts are supposed to appertain most appropriately to the lower regions, inasmuch as the ancients
who described them first consigned the blessed as well as the damned to a nether world. Consequently,
it is not surprising to find that phantoms of the Capitol are mostly relegated to the basement.

Exceptions are made in the case of Vice-President Wilson, who, as will be remembered, died
in his room at the Senate end of the building, and also with respect to John Quincy Adams,
whose nocturnal perambulations are so annoying to the watchmen. Mr. Wilson is only an occasional
visitor on the premises, it is understood, finding his way thither, probably, when nothing
else of importance is "up," so to speak, in the spiritual realm which now claims him for its
own. It is related that on one occasion he nearly frightened to death a watchman who was guarding
the coffin of a Tennessee Senator who was lying in state in the Senate Chamber. The startle
was doubtless uncontemplated, inasmuch as the Senator was too well bred a man to take anybody
unpleasantly by surprise.

There was a watchman, employed quite a while ago as a member of the Capitol police, who was
discharged finally for drunkenness. No faith, therefore, is to be placed in his sworn statement,
which was actually made, to the effect that on a certain occasion he passed through the old
Hall of Representatives--now Statuary Hall--and saw in session the Congress of 1848, with John
Quincy Adams and many other men whose names have long ago passed into history. It was, if the
word of the witness is to be believed, a phantom legislative crew, resembling in kind if not
in character the goblins which Rip Van Winkle encountered on his trip to the summits of the
storied Catskills.

But--to come down to things that are well authenticated and sure, comparatively speaking--the
basement of the Capitol, as has been said, is the part of the building chiefly haunted. Beneath
the hall of the House of Representatives strolls by night a melancholy specter, with erect
figure, a great mustache, and his hands clasped behind him. Who he is nobody has ever surmised;
he might be, judging from his aspect, a foreigner in the diplomatic service, but that is merely
guess. Watchmen at night have approached him in the belief that he was an intruder, but he
has faded from sight instantly, like a picture on a magic-lantern slide.

At precisely 12.30 of the clock every night, so it is said, the door of the room occupied by
the Committee on Military and Militia of the Senate opens silently, and there steps forth the
figure of General Logan, recognizable by his long black hair, military carriage, and the hat
he was accustomed to wear in life.

Logan was the chairman of this committee, and, if report be credited, he is still supervising
its duties.

A GENUINE GHOST

(Philadelphia Press, March 25, 1884)

DAYTON, O., March 25.--A thousand people surround the grave yard in Miamisburg, a town near
here, every night to witness the antics of what appears to be a genuine ghost. There is no
doubt about the existence of the apparition, as Mayor Marshall, the revenue collector and hundreds
of prominent citizens all testify to having seen it. Last night several hundred people, armed
with clubs and guns, assaulted the specter, which appeared to be a woman in white. Clubs, bullets
and shot tore the air in which the mystic figure floated without disconcerting it in the least.
A portion of the town turned out en masse to-day and began exhuming all the bodies in the cemetery.

The remains of the Buss family, composed of three people, have already been exhumed. The town
is visited daily by hundreds of strangers and none are disappointed, as the apparition is always
on duty promptly at 9 o'clock. The strange figure was at once recognized by the inhabitants
of the town as a young lady supposed to have been murdered several years ago. Her attitude
while drifting among the graves is one of deep thought, with the head inclined forward and
hands clasped behind.

THE BAGGAGEMAN'S GHOST

"The corpses of the passengers killed in the disaster up at Spuyten Duyvil was fetched down
here and laid out in[1] The room was darkened and I could just make out the out that storage
room," said a Grand Central depot baggageman. "That's what give it the name of morgue. Some
of the boys got scared of going in after that, 'specially in the dark; and a lot of stories
was started about spooks. We had a helper (a drunken chap that didn't know whether he saw a
thing or dreamed it), and he swore to the toughest of the yarns. He says he went in to get
a trunk. It was a whopper, and he braced himself for a big strain; but, when he gripped it,
it come up just as if there wasn't nothing in it more'n air or gas. That unexpected kind of
a lift is like kicking at nothing--it's hurtful, don't you know?"

"I should think so."

"Well, Joe felt as light-headed as the trunk, he says, but he brought it out. When he was putting
it down he was stunned to see a ghost sitting straddle of it."

"What did the ghost look like?"

"Joe was so scared that he can't tell, except that it had grave-clothes on. And it went out
of sight as soon as he got out into the daylight--floated off, and at the same instant the
trunk became as heavy as such a trunk generally is. Some of us believe Joe's story, and some
don't, and he's one of them that does. He throwed up his job rather than go into the morgue again."

DRUMMERS SEE A SPECTER

(St Louis Globe-Democrat, Oct. 6, 1887)

[The last man in the world to be accused of a belief in the supernatural would be your go-ahead,
hard-headed American "drummer" or traveling-man. Yet here is a plain tale of how not one but
two of the western fraternity saw a genuine ghost in broad daylight a few years ago.--ED.]

JACKSON, MO., October 6. At a place on the Turnpike road, between Cape Girardeau and Jackson,
is what is familiarly known as Spooks' Hollow. The place is situated fours miles from the Cape
and is awfully dismal looking where the road curves gracefully around a high bluff.

Two drummers, representing a single leading wholesale house of St. Louis, were recently making
the drive from Jackson to the Cape, when their attention was suddenly attracted at the Spooks'
Hollow by a white and airy object which arose in its peculiar form so as to be plainly visible
and then maneuvered in every imaginable manner, finally taking a zigzag wayward journey through
the low dismal-looking surroundings, disappearing suddenly into the mysterious region from
whence it came.

More than one incident of dreadful experience has been related of this gloomy abode, and the
place is looked upon by the midnight tourist and the lonesome citizen on his nocturnal travels
as an unpleasant spot, isolated from the beautiful country which surrounds it.

DR. FUNK SEES THE SPIRIT OF BEECHER

(New York Herald, April 4, 1903)

While he will not admit that he is a believer in spiritualism, the Rev. Dr. Isaac Funk, head
of the publishing house of Funk & Wagnalls, is so impressed with manifestations he has received
from the spirit of Henry Ward Beecher that he has laid the entire matter before the Boston
Society for Psychical Research, and is anxiously awaiting a solution or explanation of what
appears to him, after twenty-five years' study of the subject, the most remarkable test of
the merit of the claims of spiritualists that has ever come within his observation.

Although he has resorted to every means within his power to discover any fraud that may have
been practiced upon him, he has been unable to explain away not only messages to him from the
great minister, but the actual appearance to him of Mr. Beecher in the flesh.

Dr. Funk and Mr. Beecher were intimate friends, and it would be difficult to practice deception
as to Mr. Beecher's appearance. When the apparition appeared to Dr. Funk at a séance a short
time ago Dr. Funk was less than three feet distant from it, and had plenty of opportunity to
detect a fraud if it was being perpetrated, he believes.

"Every feature stood out distinctly," Dr. Funk said yesterday, in describing his experience,
"even to the hair and eyes, the color of the skin and the expression of the mouth.[1] lines
of the body, but it was still light enough to make the face plainly visible. I had a short
conversation with the embodied spirit, and then it appeared to sink to the floor and fade away."

MYSTERY OF THE COINS

Dr. Funk was especially anxious to have an opportunity to see and talk with Mr. Beecher, in
the hope that light would be thrown on the mystery which surrounds a previous manifestation.
Through the spirit of one "Jack" Rakestraw, who says he used to lead the choir in one of Mr.
Beecher's churches, but frankly admits that he cannot remember exactly where the church was
located--even spirits have a way of forgetting things, spiritualists declare--Dr. Funk was
informed that Mr. Beecher was troubled because the publisher had failed to return a coin, known
as the "widow's mite," which he had borrowed some years ago, from the late Professor Charles
E. West, a well known numismatist, to make a cut to illustrate a dictionary. Dr. Funk supposed
the coin had been returned a long time ago, but upon looking the matter up found it in a drawer
of a safe, among some old papers, exactly as Mr. Rakestraw maintained.

When Mr. Beecher appeared to him in person, so far as he could determine, Dr. Funk asked him
several direct questions, to which the replies, he admits, were somewhat sublime. Although
Dr. Funk has found the long-lost coin--which, by the way, is said to be worth $2,500--he is
not certain to whom it should be returned, now that Professor West is dead and his collection
of coins sold. Should the "widow's mite" go to Professor West's heirs or to the purchaser of
the collection? is a question which has as yet remained unanswered.

"That is a matter I am leaving to be determined by the Society for Psychical Research and Mrs.
Piper, who ought to be able to learn from the spirit world what disposition Professor West
wishes to have made of the coin," said Dr. Funk. It is at any rate a matter that does not appear
to concern the spirit of Mr. Beecher.

MR. BEECHER APPEASED

"When what seemed to be Mr. Beecher's embodied spirit appeared to me," Dr. Funk said, "I asked
that very question. He smiled and replied that it was not a matter that concerned him especially,
and that the whole thing was in the nature of a test, to prove to me that there actually are
spirits, and that it is possible to have communication with them when all the conditions are
favorable. He remarked that he was glad the old coin had been found, but seemed to consider
the disposition of it a matter of minor importance. He told me he was glad I was taking interest
in the subject, as he believed it would result in good for the world, and then, excusing himself
on the ground that he had an engagement which it was necessary for him to keep, the apparition
disappeared."

Dr. Funk borrowed the coin from Professor West's collection, as a lighter colored one he already
had was of doubtful authenticity. Both coins were sent to the government expert in Philadelphia
and the lighter one was declared to be the genuine one. By the spirits it is now declared,
however, that a mistake was made and that the darker one belonging to Professor West has the
greater value.

"I found both the light and the dark one in the drawer," said Dr. Funk, "and remembered distinctly
that it was the darker of the two which I had borrowed from Professor West. I went to the next
séance, and when Rakestraw's spirit arrived I asked him to find out which one was to be returned.
After a brief interval his voice came to me.

"'Return the dark one, of course,' he said. 'That is the genuine coin and is the one you borrowed
from Dr. Beecher's friend.'

"While I do not wish to be classed as a believer in Spiritualism, I certainly am open to conviction
after what has come under my personal observation," Dr. Funk concluded. "I am confident that
no fraud was practiced on me at the séance at which I was told about the old coin. The medium
is an elderly woman living in Brooklyn, who never appears in public, and the only persons present
were members of her family and known to me. But none of them knew any more about the coin being
in my safe than I did."

MARYLAND GHOSTS

(Baltimore American, May, 1886)

For forty years the Rev. Dr. B. has been the rector of a prominent parish on the Eastern Shore.
He had, when the scenes recorded below happened twenty-two years ago, a mission charge sixteen
miles distant from the town in which he resided, and he was therefore constantly traveling
between these two places. About six miles distant was the country residence of Judge S., a
well-known and venerable parishioner of the worthy doctor. The sod had been turned above this
gentleman's grave only about six weeks, when Dr. B. chanced to be returning from his mission
charge in company with a friend. It was broad daylight, just about sunset, and not far from
Judge S.'s gate, when a carriage, drawn by a white horse, passed them rapidly from behind and
was soon out of sight.

"That fellow must be in a hurry to reach C.," remarked the doctor.

"Did you notice anything peculiar about that vehicle?" inquired his companion.

"Only that it moves very quietly. I heard no sound as it went by."

"Nor did I," said his friend. "Neither rattling of wheels nor noise of hoofs. It is certainly
strange."

       *       *       *       *       *

The matter, however, was soon forgotten in other conversation, and they had traveled perhaps
a mile, when suddenly, the same horse and carriage passed them as before. Nothing was discernible
of the driver except his feet, the carriage curtains hiding his body. There was no cross road
by which a vehicle in front could possibly have got behind without making a circuit of many
miles and consuming several hours. Yet there was not the shadow of a doubt as to the identity
of the vehicle, and the two gentlemen gazed at each other in blank amazement, and with a certain
defined sense of awe which precluded any discussion of the matter, particularly as the horse
was to all appearances the well-known white habitually driven by the deceased Judge. A half
mile brought them in sight of Judge S.'s gate, when for the third time the ghostly team dashed
by in the same dreadful mysterious silence. This time it turned in full view into the gate.
Without a word of comment the doctor quickened his horse's speed, and reached the gate only
a few yards behind the silent driver. Both gentlemen peered eagerly up the long, open lane
leading to the house; but neither carriage nor wheel-track was visible, though it was still
clear daylight, and there was no outlet from the lane, nor could any vehicle in the time occupied
accomplish half the distance. The peculiar features of this strange incident are that it was
equally and simultaneously evident to two witnesses, both entirely unprepared for any such
manifestation, and differing widely in temperament, habits of life, mental capacity and educational
attainments, and by mere accident making this journey together, and that to this day both of
them--witnesses, be it noted, of unimpeachable credibility--attest it, and fully corroborate
each other, but without being able to suggest the slightest explanation.

THE GHOST OF PEG ALLEY'S POINT

Peg Alley's Point is a long and narrow strip of wooded land, situated between the main stream
of Miles river and one of the navigable creeks which flow into it. This little peninsula is
about two miles long, from fifty to three hundred yards in width and is bounded by deep water
and is overgrown with pine and thick underbrush. There is extant a tradition to the effect
that many years ago a party of Baltimore oystermen encamped on the point, among whom was a
man named Alley, who had abandoned his wife. The deserted woman followed up her husband, and
found him at the camp. After some conversation had passed between them, the man induced her,
upon some unknown pretext, to accompany him into a thicket. The poor wife never came out alive.
Her husband cruelly murdered her with a club. The point of land has ever since been known by
Peg Alley's name, and her perturbed spirit has been supposed to haunt the scene of her untimely
taking off. About twelve years ago a gang of rail-splitters were at work on the point, and
one day the foreman flatly refused to go back, declaring that queer things happened down there,
and that he had seen a ghost. Mr. Kennedy, his employer, laughed at him and dismissed the matter
from his mind. Some time after this Mr. Kennedy had occasion to ride through the woods to look
after some sheep, there being but one road and the water on either side. As he approached the
point his horse started violently and refused to go on, regardless of whip or spur. Glancing
about for the cause of this unnatural fright, he saw a woman rise up from a log, a few yards
in advance, and stand by the roadside, looking at him. She was very poorly clad in a faded
calico dress, and wore a limp sun-bonnet, from beneath which her thin, jet-black hair straggled
down on her shoulders; her face was thin and sallow and her eyes black and piercing. Knowing
that she had no business there, and occupied in controlling his horse, he called to her somewhat
angrily to get out of the way, as his animal was afraid of her. Slowly she turned and walked
into the thicket, uttering not a syllable and looking reproachfully at him as she went. With
much difficulty he forced his horse to the spot, hoping to find out who the strange intruder
might be, but the most careful search failed to reveal the trace of any one, although there
was no place of concealment and no possible way of escape, for which, indeed, there was not
sufficient time.

AN APPARITION AND DEATH

The old family seat of the T.'s, one of the most prominent names in the community, is not far
from the scenes of the above-mentioned adventure. In all this region of lovely situations and
charming water views, its site is one of the most beautiful. The brick mansion, with all the
strangely mixed comforts and discomforts of ancient architecture, rears its roof up from an
elevated lawn, while the silvery thread of a land-locked stream winds nearly around the whole.
Over the further bank dance the sparkling waters of a broad estuary, flashing in the glance
of the sunshine or tossing its white-capped billows in angry mimicry of the sea. The gleam
of white sails is never lacking to add variety and picturesqueness to the scene. In the dead,
hushed calm of a summer evening, when the lifted oar rests on the gunwale, unwilling to disturb
with its dip the glassy surface, one has a strange, dreamy sense of being suspended in space,
the sky, in all its changing beauties, being accurately reflected in illimitable depth by the
still water, until the charm is broken by the splash and ripple of a school of nomadic alewives
or the gliding, sinuous fin of a piratical shark. In this lovely home it was wont for the family
to assemble on the occasion of certain domestic celebrations, and it was at one of these that
the following incident occurred: All were present except one member, who was detained by sickness
at her residence, fifteen miles away. It was in early afternoon that one of the ladies standing
at an open window, suddenly exclaimed: "Why, there's Aunt Milly crossing the flower garden!"
The party approached the window, and beheld, in great surprise, the lady, in her ordinary costume,
slowly strolling among the flowers. She paused and looked earnestly at the group, her features
plainly visible; then turned and disappeared amidst the shrubbery. No trace of her presence
being discoverable, it was natural that a gloom fell upon the company. A few hours later a
messenger arrived with the intelligence of her death. The time of her apparition and the time
of her death coincided.

AN IDIOT GHOST WITH BRASS BUTTONS

(Philadelphia Press, June 16, 1889)

In a pretty but old-fashioned house in Stuyvesant square--ghosts like squares, I think--is
another ghost. This house stood empty for several years, and about six years ago a gentleman,
his wife and little daughter moved in there, and while fitting up allowed the child to play
about the empty attic, which had apparently been arranged for a children's playroom long ago.
There was a fireplace and a large fireboard in front of it.

When the house was about finished down stairs the mother began to pay more attention to the
little girl and tried to keep her down there with her, but the child always stole away and
went back up stairs again and again, until finally the mother asked why she liked to go up
there so much. She replied that she liked to play with the funny little boy. Investigation
showed that it was utterly impossible for any person, man or child, to get in that place or
be concealed there, but the little girl insisted and told her parents that he "went in there,"
pointing to the fireboard.

The parents were seriously concerned, believing that their daughter was telling them an untruth,
and threatened to punish her for it, but she insisted so strongly that she saw and played with
a "funny little boy, with lots of brass buttons on his jacket," that they finally gave up threatening
and resolved to investigate.

The father, who is an old sea captain, found out that this house had been occupied by an Englishman
named Cowdery who had had three children--two boys and a girl. One of the boys was an idiot.
This idiot was supposed to have fallen into the East River, as his cap was found there, and
he had always shown a liking for the river when his nurse took him out. Soon after this Mr.
Cowdery moved West.

This was enough for my friend's friend, who had the fireboard taken down, and short work in
the wall by the side of the chimney brought the body of the unfortunate idiot boy. The back
of his skull was crushed in. He still had the dark blue jacket on, with four rows of buttons
on the front. The poor little bones were buried and the affair kept quiet, but the captain
left the house.

A MODEL GHOST STORY

(Boston Courier, Aug. 10)

A very singular story which forms one of the sensational social topics of the day is the best
authenticated of the many stories of the supernatural that have been lately told. Only a short
time ago a young and well-known artist, Mr. A., was invited to pay a visit to his distinguished
friend, Mr. Izzard. The house was filled with guests, but a large and handsome room was placed
at his disposal, apparently one of the best in the house. For three days he had a delightful
visit; delightful in all particulars save one, he had each night a horrible dream. He dreamed
he was--or was really--suddenly awakened by some person entering his room, and in looking around
saw the room brilliantly lighted, while at the window stood a lady elegantly attired, in the
act of throwing something out. This accomplished, she turned her face toward the only spectator
showing a countenance so distorted by evil passions that he was thrilled with horror. Soon
the light and the figure with the dreadful face disappeared, leaving the artist suffering from
a frightful nightmare. On returning to his city home he was so haunted by the fearful countenance
which had for three consecutive nights troubled him, that he made a sketch of it, and so real
that the evil expression seemed to horrify every one who saw it. Not a great while after, the
artist went to make an evening visit on Mr. Izzard; that gentleman invited him to his picture
gallery, as he wished to show him some remarkable, old family portraits. What was Mr. A.'s
surprise to recognize among them, in the likeness of a stately, well-dressed lady, the one
who had so troubled his slumbers on his previous visit, lacking, however, the revolting, wicked
expression. Soon as he saw it he involuntarily exclaimed, "Why, I have seen that lady!" "Indeed!"
said Mr. I., smiling, "that is hardly possible, as she died more than a hundred years ago.
She was the second wife of my great-grandfather, and reflected anything but credit on the family.
She was strongly suspected of having murdered her husband's son by a former marriage, in order
to make her own child heir to the property. The unfortunate boy broke his neck in a fall from
a window, and there was every reason to believe that he was precipitated from the window by
his stepmother." The artist then told his host the circumstances of his thrice-repeated experience,
or dream, and sent for his sketch, which, so far as the features were concerned, was identical
with the portrait in Mr. Izzard's gallery. The sketch has since been photographed, but from
its hideous expression is not very pleasant to look upon.

A GHOST THAT WILL NOT DOWN

(Cincinnati Enquirer, Sept. 30, 1884)

GRANTSVILLE, W. VA., September 30.--The ghost of Betts' farm will not lay. Something over a
year ago the Enquirer contained an account or an occult influence or manifestation at the farm
house of Mr. Collins Betts, about three miles below this town, in which story were delineated
a number of weird, strange instances of ghostly manifestations, all of which were verified
by the testimony of honest, brave and reliable citizens, the names of many of whom were mentioned.
That story went the rounds of newspapers all over the country and resulted in the proprietor
of the place receiving hundreds of letters from all over the country.

Since then the old house has been torn down, the family of Mr. Betts rebuilding a home place
on a different portion of the farm. This act, it was believed, would lay or forever quiet the
ramblings and queer doings of the inexplicable mystery. But such has not been the case. Since
the building has been razed the mysterious manifestation has made itself visible at places
sometimes quite a distance from the scene of its former domicile.

At a distance of several hundred yards from the old Betts place a neighboring farmer had erected
a house in which he intended to reside, and in fact did reside a short time, but the "Cale
Betts ghost," as the manifestation is commonly called for a distance of many miles, was no
respecter of persons and oblivious of distance, and it so annoyed and frightened the farmer
and his family at untoward times that he has removed his house to the opposite end of the farm,
leaving his garden, orchard and all the improvements usually made about a farm-house to take
care of themselves.

This in itself was considered strange enough, but the ghostly visitant did not stop there.
The high road, running some distance away, has been the theater of almost numberless scenes
of frights and frightful appearances. Among those who have lately seen the ghost is a young
man named Vandevener, whose father had once been frightened nearly to death, as related in
a former letter. Young Vandevener had frequently made sport of the old man's fright, but he
does so no more--in fact, the young man is willing to make affidavit that the old man's story
was mildly drawn.

The young man was driving along quietly one night about half a mile from the Betts place, when
he saw a strange being, which, in the pale light of the moon, he took to be a man walking at
the head of his horses. A few minutes later the man, or whatever it was, glided, without making
a particle of noise, around the horses' heads and got into the wagon and took a seat by his side.

Young Vandevener says it rode along with him several hundred yards, and spoke to him. It first
told him not to be afraid, as it did not intend to injure him in the least. What it said he
will not tell, except that it admonished him not to say anything about it until a certain time.
After it had spoken to him Vandevener says it got up and glided off into the woods and disappeared.
He says the shape was that of a headless man, and that while it was with him he felt a cold
chill run over him, although it was a warm evening, and this chilly feeling did not leave him
until the disappearance of the shape.

Since then Vandevener can not be induced to go over the ground after night. He still persists
in the same story, and as he is a truthful young fellow, the people who know him are satisfied
that he really saw what he claims to have seen.

Only one day last week another young man, Henry Stephens I believe, on his way past the same
place, saw a peculiar shape rise out of the brush by the side of the road and glide along by
the side of the wagon. Stephens got out of his wagon and gathered together a handful of rocks,
which he threw at the object. Some of the stones appeared to go through it, but did not seem
to affect it in the least. It still continued to float along at a short distance away until
Stephens became frightened and whipped up his horses until they flew at a two-minute gait down
the road, the object following at some distance until quite away from the scene of its first
appearance, when it disappeared like a cloud of vapor. There are dozens of authentic stories
of the ghostly peculiarities of the Betts ghost which are new and peculiar.

It appears, since the destruction of the Betts homestead, to have taken up its quarters near
the highway, and here it appears to people who have generally scoffed and laughed at the former
stories. That it is bullet-proof does not need testimony, located, as it is, in a section of
country which has for years been noted for its fearless men--such as the Duskys, Downs and
others of national fame as sharp-shooters, scouts, etc., during the late war. None of these
men have succeeded in "laying" or putting a quietus to it. There is a story that a couple of
men had been murdered or disappeared in this vicinity, and that the ghost is the uneasy spirit
of one of these men, but there is no real evidence that anybody was ever killed there.

There is no doubt that Calhoun County has a mystery which neither time, bullets, courage nor
philosophy can either drive away or explain. It has come to stay. If you meet a Calhouner just
mention it, and he will tell you that the "Betts ghost" is a county possession which it will
gladly dispose of at any price.

TOM CYPHER'S PHANTOM ENGINE

(Seattle Press-Times, Jan. 10, 1892)

Locomotive engineers are as a class said to be superstitious, but J.M. Pinckney, an engineer
known to almost every Brotherhood man, is an exception to the rule. He has never been able
to believe the different stories told of apparitions suddenly appearing on the track, but he
had an experience last Sunday night on the Northern Pacific east-bound overland that made his
hair stand on end.

By the courtesy of the engineer, also a Brotherhood man, Mr. Pinckney was riding on the engine.
They were recounting experiences, and the fireman, who was a green hand, was getting very nervous
as he listened to the tales of wrecks and disasters, the horrors of which were graphically
described by the veteran engineers.

The night was clear and the rays from the headlight flashed along the track, and, although
they were interested in spinning yarns, a sharp lookout was kept, for they were rapidly nearing
Eagle gorge, in the Cascades, the scene of so many disasters and the place which is said to
be the most dangerous on the 2,500 miles of road. The engineer was relating a story and was
just coming to the climax when he suddenly grasped the throttle, and in a moment had "thrown
her over," that is, reversed the engine. The air brakes were applied and the train brought
to a standstill within a few feet of the place where Engineer Cypher met his death two years
ago. By this time the passengers had become curious as to what was the matter, and all sorts
of questions were asked the trainmen. The engineer made an excuse that some of the machinery
was loose, and in a few moments the train was speeding on to her destination.

"What made you stop back there?" asked Pinckney. "I heard your excuse, but I have run too long
on the road not to know that your excuse is not the truth."

His question was answered by the engineer pointing ahead and saying excitedly:

"There! Look there! Don't you see it?"

"Looking out of the cab window," said Mr. Pinckney, "I saw about 300 yards ahead of us the
headlight of a locomotive."

"Stop the train, man," I cried, reaching for the lever.

"Oh, it's nothing. It's what I saw back at the gorge. It's Tom Cypher's engine, No. 33. There's
no danger of a collision. The man who is running that ahead of us can run it faster backward
than I can this one forward. Have I seen it before? Yes, twenty times. Every engineer on the
road knows that engine, and he's always watching for it when he gets to the gorge."

"The engine ahead of us was running silently, but smoke was puffing from the stack and the
headlight threw out rays of red, green, and white light. It kept a short distance ahead of
us for several miles, and then for a moment we saw a figure on the pilot. Then the engine rounded
a curve and we did not see it again. We ran by a little station, and at the next, when the
operator warned us to keep well back from a wild engine that was ahead, the engineer said nothing.
He was not afraid of a collision. Just to satisfy my own mind on the matter I sent a telegram
to the engine wiper at Sprague, asking him if No. 33 was in. I received a reply stating that
No. 33 had just come in, and that her coal was exhausted and boxes burned out. I suppose you'll
be inclined to laugh at the story, but just ask any of the boys, although many of them won't
talk about it. I would not myself if I were running on the road. It's unlucky to do so."

With this comment upon the tale Mr. Pinckney boarded a passing caboose and was soon on his
way to Tacoma. It is believed by Northern Pacific engineers that Thomas Cypher's spirit still
hovers near Eagle gorge.

GHOSTS IN CONNECTICUT

(N.Y. Sun, Sept. 1, 1885)

"There is as much superstition in New-England to-day as there was in those old times when they
slashed Quakers and built bonfires for witches." It was a New York man who gave expression
to this rather startling statement. He has been summering in Connecticut, and he avers that
his talk about native superstition is founded on close observation. Perhaps it is; anyhow he
regaled the Times's correspondent with some entertaining incidents which he claims establish
the truth of his somewhat astonishing theories.

Old Stratford, the whitewashed town between this place and Bridgeport, made famous by mysterious
"rappings" many years ago, and more recently celebrated as the scene of poor Rose Clark Ambler's
strange murder, is much concerned over a house which the almost universal verdict pronounces
"haunted." The family of Elihu Osborn lives in this house, and ghosts have been clambering
through it lately in a wonderfully promiscuous fashion. Two or three families were compelled
to vacate the premises before the Osborns, proud and skeptical, took possession of them. Now
the Osborns are hunting for a new home. Children of the family have been awakened at midnight
by visitors which persisted in shaking them out of bed; Mrs. Osborn has been confronted with
ghostly spectacles, and through the halls and vacant rooms strange footsteps are frequently
heard when all the family are trying to sleep; sounds loud enough to arouse every member of
the household. Then the manifestations sometimes change to moanings and groanings sufficiently
vehement and pitiful to distract all who hear them. Once upon a time, perhaps a dozen years
ago, Jonathan Riggs lived in this house, and as the local gossips assert, Riggs caused the
death of his wife by his brutal conduct and then swallowed poison to end his own life. The
anniversary of the murderous month in the Riggs family has arrived and the manifestations are
so frequent and so lively that "the like has never been seen before," as is affirmed by a veteran
Stratford citizen. There is no shadow of doubt in Stratford that the spirits of the Riggses
are spryly cavorting around their former abode.

Over at the Thimble Islands, off Stony Creek, is an acre or two of soil piled high on a lot
of rocks. The natives call it Frisbie Island. Not more than a hundred yards off shore it contains
a big bleak looking house which was built about twenty years ago to serve as a Summer hotel
when Connecticut capitalists were deep in schemes to tempt New Yorkers to this part of the
Sound shore to spend their Summers. New Yorkers declined to be tempted, and the old house is
rapidly approaching decay. It has recently assumed a peculiar interest for the residents of
Stony Creek. Midnight lights have suddenly appeared in all its windows at frequent intervals,
fitfully flashing up and down like the blaze in the Long Island lighthouses. Ghosts! This is
the universal verdict. Nobody disputes it. Once or twice a hardy crew of local sailors have
volunteered to go out and investigate the mystery, but when the time for the test has arrived,
there somehow have always been reasons for postponing the excursion. Cynical people profess
to believe that practical jokers are at the root of the manifestations, but such a profane
view is not widely entertained among the good people who have their homes at Stony Creek.

Over near Middletown is a farmer named Edgar G. Stokes, a gentleman who is said to have graduated
with honor in a New England college more than a quarter of a century ago. He enjoys, perhaps,
the most notable bit of superstition to be found anywhere in this country, in or out of Connecticut.
He owns the farm on which he lives, and it is valuable; not quite so valuable though as it
once was, for Mr. Stokes's eccentric disposition has somewhat changed the usual tactics that
farmers pursue when they own fertile acres. The average man clears his soil of stones; Mr.
Stokes has been piling rocks all over his land. Little by little the weakness--or philosophy--has
grown upon him; and not only from every part of Middlesex County, but from every part of this
State he has been accumulating wagonloads of pebbles and rocks. He seeks for no peculiar stone
either in shape, color, or quality. If they are stones that is sufficient. And his theory is
that stones have souls--souls, too, that are not so sordid and earthly as the souls that animate
humanity. They are souls purified and exalted. In the rocks are the spirits of the greatest
men who have lived in past ages, developed by some divinity until they have become worthy of
their new abode. Napoleon Bonaparte's soul inhabits a stone, so does Hannibal's, so does Cæsar's,
but poor plebeian John Smith and William Jenkins, they never attained such immortality.

Farmer Stokes has dumped his rocks with more or less reverence all along his fields, and this
by one name and that by another he knows and hails them all. A choice galaxy of the distinguished
lights of the old days are in his possession, and just between the burly bits of granite at
the very threshold of his home is a smooth-faced crystal from the Rocky Mountains. This stone
has no soul yet. The rough, jagged rock on its left is George Washington. The granite spar
on the right is glorified with the spirit of good Queen Bess. The smooth-faced crystal one
of these days is to know the bliss of swallowing up the spirit of good Farmer Edgar Garton
Stokes. It was not until recently that mystified neighbors obtained the secret of the vast
accumulation of rough stones on the Stokes farm. Mr. Stokes has a family. They all seem to
be intelligent, practical business people. There may be a will contested in Middletown one
of these days.

THE SPOOK OF DIAMOND ISLAND

(St. Louis Globe-Democrat, Sept. 18, 1888)

HARDEN, Ill., Sept. 18.--For some time past rumors have been circulated in Hardin to the effect
that Diamond Island, in the river about two miles from this place, was the home of a ghost.
The stories concerning the movements of the alleged spook were, of course, not given any credence
at first, but later, when several reputable citizens of Hardin announced that they had positively
seen an uncanny looking object moving about on the island at night, the rumors were more seriously
considered. Now, after investigation, the mysterious something is no longer considered a myth.

Along toward midnight a peculiar light is seen at the foot of the island. It has the appearance
of a huge ball of fire, and is about the size and shape of an ordinary barrel.

A few nights ago a party of young men from this place determined to visit the island and fathom
the mystery if possible. Equipped with revolvers, knives, shotguns, and clubs, the party secured
a boat and were soon cutting through the water at a good speed for a point on the island near
where the specter usually made its appearance. Arriving at the landing place, the skiff was
hauled up on the shore and the young men took up a position in a clump of trees close at hand
to watch and wait.

Suddenly the whole point of the island was illumined as a bright red object rose apparently
from the water and glided up into the air. Ascending probably to a height of forty yards, the
watchers saw the lurid ball fade away. The investigating party had seen all they wanted. They
made a mad rush for the boat, but, just as they reached the place where it had been left, they
were horrified to see the little craft moving out on the water from the island. At first its
only occupant seemed to be the red ball of fire, but the next moment the watchers saw the crimson
object gradually take the form of a man, and they saw him, too, dip the oars at regular intervals
and pull a long, steady stroke. The man's features were fully concealed by a wide-rimmed slouch
hat, which was drawn over his face. A peculiar light illumined the boat and the waters around
it, making the craft and its mysterious occupant perfectly discernible to the party on the
shore, who stood paralyzed with fear, unable to speak or move, their eyes riveted by some mysterious
influence they could not resist on the spectral object before them.

The boat was now about in midstream, and suddenly the group of watchers saw the skiff's occupant
change again into the crimson ball. Then it slowly began to move upward, and when it was about
parallel with the tops of the trees on the island it disappeared. Next instant the watchers
looking across the river saw nothing but the flickering lights in Hardin.

The cries of the crowd on the island awakened a sleeping fisherman on the opposite side of
the river, and he kindly pulled across and rescued the ghost-seeking youths. The fiery spook,
it is said, still makes its nightly trips to Diamond Island, but no more investigating parties
have ventured across to solve the mystery.

It is said that some years ago a foul murder was committed on this island, and by the superstitious
the crimson object is believed to be the restless spirit of the slain man.

THE GHOST'S FULL HOUSE

(N.Y. Sun, April 10, 1891)

The Bleecker street ghost drew as large a "house" last night as Barnum's Circus or any of the
theaters. There was a bigger crowd about "Cohnfeld's Folly" than there was three weeks ago
when the flames gutted the buildings from Mercer to Greene streets and did damage away up in
the millions. The wraith was not due till midnight, but the street was packed with watchers
as early as 9 o'clock. The crowd was so dense that pedestrians with difficulty forced their
way through it and twice a squad of blue-coats descended on the mob and routed it. Five minutes
after the police had retired the street was as impassable as before.

In the midst of the ruins of the big fire a single wall towers away above the surrounding brick
partitions. It looks feeble and almost tottering and the shop-keepers in the vicinity say that
when there is a high wind it sways to and fro and threatens to come down in a heap. After dark
the outlines of the summit of this wall are very indistinct. The detail of the wreck could
not be made out even in last night's bright starlight. There is a sheet of tin, however, on
the top of the wall, which was probably a cornice before the fire. Only one side of it is attached
to the brickwork, and when there is any wind it trembles in the breeze and rattles with an
uncertain sound. It may have been that the sheen of the tin in the starlight or a windy night
first suggested the idea of a ghost to some weird imagination.

There is an old Frenchman living in the vicinity, however, who avers that three nights ago
he saw with his own eyes a lady in white standing out against the darkened sky on the very
summit of the tottering wall. Her long, flowing robes fluttered in the breeze, and even while
he watched there came a low, wailing sound, and the wraith dissolved into air. He kept his
eye fixed on the spot for a full minute, but the vision did not reappear, and as he turned
to walk away he thought he heard groaning as of a lost spirit. The sound, he says, made his
blood run cold and kept him shivering the whole night through.

The alleged appearance of the ghost has set the whole neighborhood a talking, and some of the
"old residenters" have recalled a murder which took place in the vicinity many years ago, when
A.T. Stewart lived there and the street was one of the fashionable places of residence of the
town. There was a wealthy old gentleman of foreign birth who lived in the street and was quite
a recluse. He would pass the time of day with his neighbors when he met them in the street,
but he was never known to enter into conversation with any one. The blinds were always drawn
in his front windows, and at night there was not a ray of light to be seen about the house.
His only servants were a couple somewhat advanced in years, who were as foreign and uncommunicative
as himself. The master of the house would be away for months at a time and the neighbors had
all sorts of theories as to his disappearances. Some thought he was engaged in unlawful business,
others suggested that his absence might be attributed to the supernatural, but those who were
less flighty concluded that he simply went off on periodical visits to his native land.

On his return from one of these visits, however, the old gentleman brought with him a beautiful
young girl. She was little more than a child in appearance, and had the soft eyes, olive complexion
and lithe, graceful figure of a Spaniard. She was never seen alive after she passed the shadow
of the old man's doorway. A few weeks later the old gentleman disappeared as mysteriously as
if he had been snatched up into the clouds. The old couple who kept his home walked away one
day and never returned. There was an investigation, and in a hole dug in the cellar was found
the body of the beautiful young girl. There were no marks on her body, and it was supposed
she had been smothered. The exact date of this tragedy is not fixed. Inspector Byrnes says
that if it ever occurred it was before his time.

The ghost, if ghost there is, is undoubtedly the spirit of this unfortunate and nameless young
woman. A World reporter watched the Bleecker street ruins with the crowd last night and was
there at the midnight hour, but never a sign of a ghost did he see. There were those in the
crowd, nevertheless, who thought or pretended to think that they did. Once there was a rattling
sound in the ruins, which caused a commotion among the lookers-on, but it was only because
a small boy had shied a brick at the old wall. The living spirits boomed the liquor business
in the saloons of the vicinity. A skull and cross-bones over one of these bars was surmounted
with the somewhat appropriate legend freshly painted:

"In the midst of life we are in debt."

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTE:

[1] Transcriber's Note: The original is missing text following this mark. Both it and a reprint
of the same were searched and were printed in this way.

       *       *       *       *       *

   Obvious printing punctuation errors were repaired.

   On pages 50-51, the top paragraph had a printing problem in the
   page gutter. From the letters that were left, the following changes
   were made in the text. (and said, in a suppressed tone)

   Page 72: "hed" changed to "had" (had ever passed his lip.)

   Page 73: "woful" changed to "woeful" (woeful condition)

   Page 102: "frace" change to "face" (from his face)

   Page 147: "be" changed to "he" (But he kept his title?)

   Page 172: "breathd" changed to "breathed" (she breathed heavily)

