Yet one other factor contributed to the success of the revolution and that was the over-confidence
of the Government. The soldiers had been loyal until now and it never occurred to those in
power that they might not always be so. They made no special preparations other than placing
machine guns on roofs. They did not even make use of the armored cars. When they realized that
the army in the city could not be trusted, they called for troops from the front but they came
too late.

From the point of view of the monarchy it was unfortunate that Protopopov sent the Emperor
to the front after having secured from him a signed blank to dismiss the Duma; for if the Tsar
had been at Tsarskoe Selo, he might have been prevailed upon to make some concessions and saved
the dynasty for a time at least.

By Tuesday morning, March 13, the revolution was generally accepted as a fait accompli; it
was believed that the old despotism was gone never to return. This was followed by an outburst
of idealism and patriotism such as comes but once or twice in the life of a nation. Every Russian
was bubbling over with enthusiasm over the glorious future of his country. Liberty so greatly
desired, so long worked for, so much suffered for had at last come. The intelligent and persecuted
Russians, they who had spent years under the shadow of the police, in prison, in exile, and
in Siberia, had their day at last and they were eager to realize their Utopia. Their first
demand was that all prison doors should be opened and that the oppressed the world over should
be freed. The Russian Revolution was not a class revolution, it was brought about neither by
the proletariat nor by the bourgeoisie and the aristocracy; all classes contributed, it was
a national revolution. So worthless had the monarchy become that all the people were glad to
get rid of it and see it go. They who helped to bring about its ruin were the first to deny
it and seek safety; and even the Synod, in an almost unseemly haste, took out the names of
the imperial family from the prayer book.

The revolution was picturesque and full of color. Nearly every morning one could see regiment
after regiment, soldiers, Cossacks, and sailors, with their regimental colors, and bands, and
revolutionary flags, marching to the Duma to take the new oath of allegiance. They were cheered,
they were blessed, handerchiefs were waved, hats were raised, cigarettes were distributed as
mark of appreciation and gratitude to these men, without whose help there would have been no
revolution. The enthusiasm became so contagious that men and women, young and old, high and
low, fell in alongside or behind, joined in the singing of the Marseillaise, and walked to
the Duma to take the oath of allegiance and having taken it they felt as purified as if they
had partaken of the communion. Another picturesque sight was the army trucks filled with armed
soldiers, red handkerchiefs tied to their bayonets, dashing up and down the streets, ostensibly
for the purpose of protecting the citizens but really for the mere joy of riding about and
being cheered. One of these trucks stands out vividly in my mind: it contained about twenty
soldiers, having in their midst a beautiful young woman with a red banner, and a young hoodlum
astride the engine, a cigarette in one hand and a sword in the other. The streets were full
of people, or "tovarishchi" (comrades), as they called one another, not only the sidewalks
but in the very center, for the tramways were not running. Great events were transpiring and
every one who could came out to hear and to see what was going on. There were no newspapers
and the street was the news center. Automobiles came dashing through scattering proclamations
and copies of the Izvestiia (a news-sheet published by a committee of newspaper men with the
authority of the Duma); and as the crowd made a rush to pick these up it looked for a moment
as if the whole world was walking on its head and feet at the same time. Those who were fortunate
enough to seize a paper ran home with it to read it to the family, those who were not gathered
around one of the many bonfires, made from the wooden imperial eagles, crowns, and other insignia
of royalty, to listen to the reading of the news, usually by a student. The part played by
the students during the revolution has not received the attention it deserves. When all others
were hiding or excited it was the students who took charge of the leaderless soldiers, found
food for them, collected money for their welfare, and told them what to do. It was interesting
to watch with what deference the soldiers looked up to them and hung upon their words. This
importance was not wholly lost upon the students, both men and women, and they read the proclamations
as if they were tablets of law handed down from heaven. After the reading came the discussion.
One of the favorite topics was the comparative bloodlessness of the revolution (something like
169 killed and 1264 wounded) which proved that the Russian Revolution was superior to the French
or any other. Having started in this vein the discussion turned on the mighty and noble deeds
Russia was going to do now. Just as it once freed Europe from the yoke of Napoleon so will
it now liberate her from the militarism and barbarism of William and give freedom to all the
world, to all nationalities, races, and creeds. The light of the world is to come from Russia.
The crowd meant it. The soldiers were in earnest and patriotic--the praise showered upon them
and the responsibility placed upon them seemed to uplift them--the man with the hoe became
a free citizen and behaved as such. On Wednesday, March 14, the soldiers posted bulletins in
different parts of the city calling on their comrades to abstain from liquor and violence and
to prevent others from committing lawless deeds. Not satisfied with mere words small companies
of militia visited the places where drinks were sold and emptied the barrels and bottles into
the gutter. For days the Astoria Hotel looked and smelled like a wrecked saloon after Carrie
Nation and her associates had stoned it.

For some time the whereabouts and intentions of the Tsar were unknown and numerous rumors were
afloat. Some said that he had committed suicide, that he was in the city, that he was on the
way, that he was under arrest, that he had fled the country. Another interesting question was
the form of the new government, should it be a republic or a constitutional monarchy. Many
of the educated classes and members of the Duma advocated a constitutional monarchy of the
English type, while others, particularly the socialistic groups, favored a republic, a democratic
republic; whatever they meant by that is not clear. Needless to say the great mass of people
did not know the difference between one kind of government and another but they shouted as
loudly as those who knew. One soldier demanded a republic like that of England, another insisted
on a republic with a tsar at the head, the wife of the porter of the house where I lived cried
as if her heart would break because "they wanted a republic," and some of the peasant women
in the country clamored for the tsar because "if they take away the tsar they will also take
away God and what will then become of the muzhik." In one place at the front several regiments
almost came to blows over this question. An orator ended his eloquent speech by saying that
"from now on Russia will have but one monarch, the revolutionary proletariat." This phrase
puzzled the soldiers, they also misunderstood the word "monarch" which they thought to be "monakh"
(monk). They therefore concluded that it was planned to put a monk on the throne, and an argument
arose whether they would have a monk or not. Some were in favor and others opposed. By the
time it got to the next regiment the question was whether they would have the monk Iliodor
as their ruler. It was no longer a question whether Russia was to have a tsar but whether the
tsar should be a monk or not, and whether it should be Iliodor or some other one.

Strange to say, as evening came a kind of fear seized the population, particularly the more
ignorant. It was difficult for them to shake off the terror of the old police; all the time
that they were talking against the tsar they had a feeling that they were doing wrong, and
that some one was denouncing them. It was hard for them to believe that all that they saw and
heard during the day was real and that the old regime was powerless. Some one would start a
rumor that a monarchist general with an army was marching on the city and that he would kill
and burn. Early Friday evening, March 16, as I was walking down the street, soldiers ran by
me shouting for every one to get under cover for several hundred police from Tsarskoe Selo
were coming and that there would be street fighting. Frightened mothers grabbed their little
ones and hurried home, storekeepers closed the shops, porters barricaded the gates, housewives
extinguished the lights, and the streets became as dark and as silent as a cemetery. This lasted
for an hour or more and then came more soldiers announcing that all was well, that the supposed
policemen were revolutionary soldiers who had come to take the oath of allegiance.

The exultation reached its highest point when the first temporary government, with Prince Lvov
at the head, was announced. Every one was pleased with the men selected, they were without
doubt the ablest leaders of the country, men who had always fought for the cause of liberty
and for the interests of the public. There was nothing but praise for them and assurances of
support. The fact that there was a "pravitelstvo" (government) calmed the people and they gradually
went back to their old occupations, but as new men, with broader outlooks and with higher aspirations.

The taking of the oath of office by the new Ministry was the last act of that wonderful week
to be unanimously approved by the people. When the temporary government attempted to govern
it was interfered with by the Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Deputies; the cry was raised
by the Socialist groups that it was they who had won the revolution and that they, therefore,
should have all the power. Since then the country has become more and more divided against
itself, love has turned into hate, joy into sorrow.

THE JUGO-SLAV MOVEMENT

By Robert J. Keener

     [FN: As used in this paper, the term Jugo-Slav comprehends
     the Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes, but not the Bulgars. It is
     not necessary here to consider whether the latter are Slavs
     or Slavicized Tartars, but merely to point out that since
     the Congress of Berlin in 1878, the Bulgars have taken no
     part in the movement which has resulted in the creation of
     Jugo-Slav nationalism. The word "jug" means "south" in
     Slavic. It is also written "youg" and "[iu]g."]

If there are miracles in history, the Jugo-Slav movement is a miracle. It is the story of a
nation which entered its new home in the Balkans in the seventh century and became divided
geographically and politically, in faith and written language, and in economic and social life,
until at last its spokesmen could truthfully say that it was divided into thirteen separate
administrative units dependent upon fifteen legislative bodies. [FN: In 1915 the Slovenes inhabiting
Carniola, Carinthia, Styria, Istria, and Goerz-Gradisca, and the Serbo-Croats of Istria and
Dalmatia, were under the direct rule of Austria. Trieste and its district were a part of Austria.
The Serbs of Hungary belonged to Hungary proper for the most part; the Croats by a fundamental
agreement were entitled to autonomy in Croatia. Fiume, the seaport of Croatia and Hungary,
had an administration of its own. Bosnia-Herzegovina possessed a diet and was under the dual
rule of Austria and Hungary. All the provinces or districts mentioned above were governed by
the two parliaments at Vienna and Budapest. There were, in addition, two independent Serb states,
Serbia and Montenegro. Down to 1912 Turkey ruled over a large number of Serbs.] How did it
come about that this evolution of twelve centuries, beginning with primeval unity and passing
through a political, economic, and social decomposition of a most bewildering character, has
once more arrived at national unity and is even now demanding the last step--political amalgamation?
Is it a doctrine or a dream or is it a reality?

I

When the Jugo-Slavs first occupied the western half of the Balkan peninsula, they were one
in speech, in social customs and ancestry, and were divided only into tribes. The Slovenes,
who settled in the northern end of the west Balkan block, were not separated from their Croat
and Serb kinsmen by the forces of geography, but rather by the course of political evolution.
On the other hand, the Croats became separated from the Serbs by forces largely geographical,
though partially economic and political, in nature.

The Slovenes gave way before the pressure of the Germans who swept through the Alps and down
the Danube and forced the Slovene vojvodes to acknowledge their suzerainty and accept their
religion. The Germans would doubtless have succeeded in obliterating them had not the Magyar
invasion weakened their offensive. The Slovenes, however, were left a wrecked nationality whose
fate became blended with that of the Habsburg possessions and who against the forces of geography--which
firmly bound them to the Croats--were politically riveted to the Habsburg north. This division
was therefore the result of forces created by man and changeable by him. The Croats settled
in the northwestern half of the territory south of the Slovenes; the Serbs roughly in the southeastern
part of it. Here geographical influences--the direction of the rivers and the Dinaric ridges--combined
with divergent political and economic possibilities, produced a dualism. The Croats on the
Save and its tributaries naturally expanded westward and aspired to closer connection with
the sea where their struggle with the remnants of Roman civilization and a superior culture
absorbed their energies. They developed out of their tribal state more quickly, while the Serbs,
further inland and amid more difficult surroundings, developed more slowly. The people who
lived along the Save aspired to control the Dalmatian coast which military and geographical
authorities claim can best be held from the mainland. The people who lived in Montenegro or
along the Morava, which was the gateway to the peninsula, would naturally expand south and
east toward the other cultural center, Constantinople, and thus seek to dominate the Balkan
peninsula. In both cases, the attraction proved too much for feudal kings and led to the formation
of cosmopolitan empires instead of strong national monarchies.

The kingdoms of Croatia and Serbia thus parted company politically. The former became a separate
kingdom attached to Hungary in 1102 and to the Habsburg dynasty in 1527, while the Serbs began
their expansion under the Nemanja dynasty late in the twelfth century and almost realized the
dominion over the Balkans under Stephen Du[s]an in the fourteenth century.

