"Make fast the door, boy, an thou'lt not have my curse on thee!--I tell 'ee, she shan't come
hither!--No--never--never;--there's poison in her breath--a' will spurn her from me!--A pest
on her!--What; wilt not do my bidding?"

"O! feyther, feyther!" cried the young peasant, whose heart seemed overcharged with grief,
"It be a cold, raw night--ye wou'dna kick a cur from the door to perish in the storm! Doant
'ee be hot and hasty, feyther, thou art not uncharitable--On me knees!"--

"Psha!" exclaimed the enraged father, only exasperated by his remonstrances. "Whoy talk 'ee
to me, son--I am deaf--deaf!--Mine own hand shall bar the door agen her!"--adding with bitterness--"let
her die!"--and stepping past his prostrate son, was about to execute his purpose--when, a young
girl, whose once gay and flimsy raiment was drenched and stained, and torn by the violence
of the storm, appeared at the door. The old man recoiled with a shudder--she was as pale as
death--and her trembling limbs seemed scarcely able to support her--a profusion of light brown
hair hung dishevelled and in disorder about her neck and shoulders, and added to her forlorn
appearance. She stretched forth her arms and pronounced the name of "Father!" but further utterance
was prevented by the convulsive sobs that heaved her bosom.

"Mary--woman!" cried the old man, trembling--"Call me not feyther--thou art none of mine--thou
hast no feyther now--nor I a daughter--thou art a serpent that hath stung the bosom that cherished
thee! Go to the fawning villain--the black-hearted sycophant that dragged thee from our arms--from
our happy home to misery and pollution--go, and bless him for breaking thy poor old feyther's
heart!"

Overcome by these heart-rending reproaches, the distressed girl fainted; but the strong arm
of the young Cotter supported her--for her tender-hearted youth, moved by his fallen sister's
sorrows, had ventured again to intercede.

"Hah! touch not her defiled and loathsome body," cried the old man--"thrust her from the door,
and let her find a grave where she may. Boy! wilt thou dare disobey me?" and he raised his
clenched hand, while anger flashed from his eye.

"Strike! feyther--strike me!" said the poor lad, bursting into tears--"fell me to the 'arth!
Kill me, an thou wilt--I care not--I will never turn my heart agen poor Mary!--Bean't she my
sister? Did thee not teach me to love her?--Poor lass!--she do want it all now, feyther--for
she be downcast and broken-hearted!--Nay, thee art kind and good, feyther--know thee art--I
zee thine eyes be full o' tears--and thee--thee woant cast her away from thee, I know thee
woant. Mother, speak to 'un; speak to sister Mary too--it be our own Mary! Doant 'ee kill her
wi' unkindness!"

The old man, moved by his affectionate entreaties, no longer offered any opposition to his
son's wishes, but hiding his face in his hands, he fled from the affecting scene to an adjoining
room.

Her venerable mother having recovered from the shock of her lost daughter's sudden appearance,
now rose to the assistance of the unfortunate, and by the aid of restoratives brought poor
Mary to the full sense of her wretchedness. She was speedily conveyed to the same humble pallet,
to which, in the days of her innocence and peace, she had always retired so light-hearted and
joyously, but where she now found a lasting sleep--an eternal repose!--Yes, poor Mary died!--and
having won the forgiveness and blessing of her offended parents, death was welcome to her.--Absurdities:
in Prose and Verse.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINS AND INVENTIONS.

No. XXVII.

       *       *       *       *       *

VAUXHALL GARDENS.

POPE.

Of the origin of these enchanting gardens, Mr. Aubrey, in his "Antiquities of Surrey," gives
us the following account;--"At Vauxhall, Sir Samuel Morland built a fine room, anno 1667, the
inside all of looking-glass, and fountains very pleasant to behold, which is much visited by
strangers: it stands in the middle of the garden, covered with Cornish slate, on the point
of which he placed a punchinello, very well carved, which held a dial, but the winds have demolished
it." And Sir John Hawkins, in his "History of Music," has the following account of it:--"The
house seems to have been rebuilt since the time that Sir Samuel Morland dwelt in it. About
the year 1730, Mr. Jonathan Tyers became the occupier of it, and, there being a large garden
belonging to it, planted with a great number of stately trees, and laid out in shady walks,
it obtained the name of Spring Gardens; and the house being converted into a tavern, or place
of entertainment, was much frequented by the votaries of pleasure. Mr. Tyers opened it with
an advertisement of a Ridotto al Fresco, a term which the people of this country had till that
time been strangers to. These entertainments were repeated in the course of the summer, and
numbers resorted to partake of them. This encouraged the proprietor to make his garden a place
of musical entertainment, for every evening during the summer season. To this end he was at
great expense in decorating the gardens with paintings; he engaged a band of excellent musicians;
he issued silver tickets at one guinea each for admission, and receiving great encouragement,
he set up an organ in the orchestra, and, in a conspicuous part of the garden, erected a fine
statue of Mr. Handel." These gardens are said to be the first of the kind in England; but they
are not so old as the Mulberry Gardens, (on the spot now called Spring Gardens, near St. James's
Park,) where king Charles II. went to regale himself the night after his restoration, and formed
an immediate connexion with Mrs. Palmer, afterwards Duchess of Cleveland. The trees, however,
are more than a century old, and, according to tradition, were planted for a public garden.
This property was formerly held by Jane Fauxe, or Vaux, widow, in 1615; and it is highly probable
(says Nichols) that she was the relict of the infamous Guy. In the "Spectator," No. 383, Mr.
Addison introduces a voyage from the Temple Stairs to Vauxhall, in which he is accompanied
by his friend, Sir Roger de Coverley. In the "Connoisseur," No. 68, we find a very humourous
description of the behaviour of an old penurious citizen, who had treated his family here with
a handsome supper. The magnificence of these gardens calls to recollection the magic representations
in the "Arabian Nights' Entertainments," where

    "The blazing glories, with a cheerful ray,
    Supply the sun, and counterfeit the day."

Grosely, in his "Tour to London,"[4] says, (relating to Ranelagh and Vauxhall,) "These entertainments,
which begin in the month of May, are continued every night. They bring together persons of
all ranks and conditions; and amongst these, a considerable number of females, whose charms
want only that cheerful air, which is the flower and quintessence of beauty. These places serve
equally as a rendezvous either for business or intrigue. They form, as it were, private coteries;
there you see fathers and mothers, with their children, enjoying domestic happiness in the
midst of public diversions. The English assert, that such entertainments as these can never
subsist in France, on account of the levity of the people. Certain it is, that those of Vauxhall
and Ranelagh, which are guarded only by outward decency, are conducted without tumult and disorder,
which often disturb the public diversions of France. I do not know whether the English are
gainers thereby; the joy which they seem in search of at those places does not beam through
their countenances; they look as grave at Vauxhall and Ranelagh as at the Bank, at church,
or a private club. All persons there seem to say, what a young English nobleman said to his
governor, Am I as joyous as I should be?"

P. T. W.

    [4] 1765, translated from the French by Thomas Nugent, LL.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHIEF CAUSES OF THE SUCCESS OF PAINTING AND SCULPTURE IN GREECE AND ROME.

(For the Mirror.)

A cursory glance at the principal occasion of the amazing success obtained by the Greeks and
Romans, in painting and sculpture, during the early ages, may perhaps prove interesting to
the lovers of the arts in this country.

The elevation to which the arts in Greece arrived was owing to the concurrence of various circumstances.
The imitative arts, we are told, in that classic country formed a part of the administration,
and were inseparably connected with the heathen worship. The temples were magnificently erected,
and adorned with numerous statues of pagan deities, before which, in reverential awe, the people
prostrated themselves. Every man of any substance had an idol in his own habitation, executed
by a reputed sculptor. In all public situations the patriotic actions of certain citizens were
represented, that beholders might be induced to emulate their virtues. On contemplating these
masterpieces of art, which were so truly exquisite that the very coldest spectator was unable
to resist their almost magical influence, the vicious were reclaimed, and the ignorant stood
abashed. Indeed, it has often been asserted, that the statues by Phidias and Praxiteles were
so inimitably executed, that the people of Paros adored them as living gods. Those artists
who performed such extraordinary wonders as these were held in an esteemed light, of which
we cannot form the least idea. We are certain they were paid most enormous prices for their
productions, and consequently could afford to adorn them with every beauty of art, and to bestow
more time on them than can ever be expected from any modern artist.

As soon as the arts had arrived at their highest pitch of excellency in Greece, the country
was laid waste by the invading power of the Romans. All the Greek cities which contained the
greatest treasures were demolished, and all the pictures[5] and statues fell into the hands
of the victorious general, who had them carefully preserved and conveyed from the land where
they had been adored. Of the estimation in which these great works were held by the Romans,
we may form some idea by the general assuring a soldier, to whose charge he gave a statue by
Praxiteles, that if he broke it, he should get another as well made in its place. War is a
very destructive enemy to painting and sculpture; the intestine quarrels which ensued after
the Romans had conquered the country, rendered the exercise of the art impracticable.

The arts were neglected in Rome until the introduction of the popish religion. At that eventful
era, statues and pictures were eagerly sought for; the admirable Grecian works were appropriated
to purposes quite contrary to their pagan origin, for in many cases heathen deities were converted
into apostles. The labours of Phidias, Myron, Praxiteles, Lysippus, and Scopas,[6] were highly
valued by the Romans, who became the correct imitators, and in time the rivals, of those celebrated
sculptors. G.W.N.

    [5] The pictures alluded to were the works of Apelles,
    Apollodorus, and Protogenes.

    [6] These sculptors, according to Pliny, were the most reputed
    among the ancients.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE'S VICTIM.[7]

    She left her own warm home
      To tempt the frozen waste,
    What time the traveller fear'd to roam,
      And hunter shunn'd the blast,
    Love pour'd his strength into her soul--
    Could peril e'er his power controul!

