SE-QUO-YAH.

From Harper's New Monthly, V. 41, 1870

In the year 1768 a German peddler, named George Gist, left the settlement of Ebenezer, on the
lower Savannah, and entered the Cherokee Nation by the northern mountains of Georgia. He had
two pack-horses laden with the petty merchandise known to the Indian trade. At that time Captain
Stewart was the British Superintendent of the Indians in that region. Besides his other duties,
he claimed the right to regulate and license such traffic. It was an old bone of contention.
A few years before, the Governor and Council of the colony of Georgia claimed the sole power
of such privilege and jurisdiction. Still earlier, the colonial authorities of South Carolina
assumed it. Traders from Virginia, even, found it necessary to go round by Carolina and Georgia,
and to procure licenses. Augusta was the great centre of this commerce, which in those days
was more extensive than would be now believed. Flatboats, barges, and pirogues floated the
bales of pelts to tide-water. Above Augusta, trains of pack-horses, sometimes numbering one
hundred, gathered in the furs, and carried goods to and from remote regions. The trader immediately
in connection with the Indian hunter expected to make one thousand per cent. The wholesale
dealer made several hundred. The governors, councilors, and superintendents made all they could.
It could scarcely be called legitimate commerce. It was a grab game.

Our Dutch friend Gist was, correctly speaking, a contrabandist. He had too little influence
or money to procure a license, and too much enterprise to refrain because he lacked it. He
belonged to a class more numerous than respectable, although it would be a good deal to say
that there was any virtue in yielding to these petty exactions. It was a mere question of confiscation,
or robbery, without redress, by the Indians. He risked it. With traders, at that time, it was
customary to take an Indian wife. She was expected to furnish the eatables, as well as cook
them. By the law of many Indian tribes property and the control of the family go with the mother.
The husband never belongs to the same family connection, rarely to the same community or town
even, and often not even to the tribe. He is a sort of barnacle, taken in on his wife's account.
To the adventurer, like a trader, this adoption gave a sort of legal status or protection.
Gist either understood this before he started on his enterprise, or learned it very speedily
after. Of the Cherokee tongue he knew positively nothing. He had a smattering of very broken
English. Somehow or other he managed to induce a Cherokee girl to become his wife.

This woman belonged to a family long respectable in the Cherokee Nation. It is customary for
those ignorant of the Indian social polity to speak of all prominent Indians as "chiefs." Her
family had no pretension to chieftaincy, but was prominent and influential; some of her brothers
were afterward members of the Council. She could not speak English; but, in common with many
Cherokees of even that early date, had a small proportion of English blood in her veins. The
Cherokee woman, married or single, owns her property, consisting chiefly of cattle, in her
own right. A wealthy Cherokee or Creek, when a son or daughter is born to him, marks so many
young cattle in a new brand, and these become, with their increase, the child's property. Whether
her cattle constituted any portion of the temptation, I can not say. At any rate, the girl,
who had much of the beauty of her race, became the wife of the German peddler.

Of George Gist's married life we have little recorded. It was of very short duration. He converted
his merchandise into furs, and did not make more than one or two trips. With him it had merely
been cheap protection and board. We might denounce him as a low adventurer if we did not remember
that he was the father of one of the most remarkable men who ever appeared on the continent.
Long before that son was born he gathered together his effects, went the way of all peddlers,
and never was heard of more.

He left behind him in the Cherokee Nation a woman of no common energy, who through a long life
was true to him she still believed to be her husband. The deserted mother called her babe "Se-quo-yah,"
in the poetical language of her race. His fellow-clansmen as he grew up gave him, as an English
one, the name of his father, or something sounding like it. No truer mother ever lived and
cared for her child. She reared him with the most watchful tenderness. With her own hands she
cleared a little field and cultivated it, and carried her babe while she drove up her cows
and milked them.

His early boyhood was laid in the troublous times of the war of the Revolution, yet its havoc
cast no deeper shadows in the widow's cabin.

As he grew older he showed a different temper from most Indian children. He lived alone with
his mother, and had no old man to teach him the use of the bow, or indoctrinate him in the
religion and morals of an ancient but perishing people. He would wander alone in the forest,
and showed an early mechanical genius in carving with his knife many objects from pieces of
wood. He employed his boyish leisure in building houses in the forest. As he grew older these
mechanical pursuits took a more useful shape. The average native American is taught as a question
of self-respect to despise female pursuits. To be made a "woman" is the greatest degradation
of a warrior.

Se-quo-yah first exercised his genius in making an improved kind of wooden milk-pans and skimmers
for his mother. Then he built her a milk-house, with all suitable conveniences, on one of those
grand springs that gurgle from the mountains of the old Cherokee Nation. As a climax, he even
helped her to milk her cows; and he cleared additions to her fields, and worked on them with
her. She contrived to get a petty stock of goods, and traded with her countrymen. She taught
Se-quo-yah to be a good judge of furs. He would go on expeditions with the hunters, and would
select such skins as he wanted for his mother before they returned. In his boyish days the
buffalo still lingered in the valleys of the Ohio and Tennessee. On the one side the French
sought them. On the other were the English and Spaniards. These he visited with small pack-horse
trains for his mother.

For the first hundred years the European colonies were of traders rather than agriculturists.
Besides the fur trade, rearing horses and cattle occupied their attention. The Indians east
of the Mississippi, and lying between the Appallachian Mountains and the Gulf, had been agriculturists
and fishermen. Buccaneers, pirates, and even the regular navies or merchant ships of Europe,
drove the natives from the haunted coast. As they fell back, fur traders and merchants followed
them with professions of regard and extortionate prices. Articles of European manufacture--knives,
hatchets, needles, bright cloths, paints, guns, powder--could only be bought with furs. The
Indian mother sighed in her hut for the beautiful things brought by the Europeans. The warrior
of the Southwest saw with terror the conquering Iroquois, armed with the dreaded fire-arms
of the stranger. When the bow was laid aside, or handed to the boys of the tribe, the warriors
became the abject slaves of traders. Guns meant gunpowder and lead. These could only come from
the white man. His avarice guarded the steps alike to bear-meat and beaver-skins. Thus the
Indian became a wandering hunter, helpless and dependent. These hunters traveled great distances,
sometimes with a pack on their backs weighing from thirty to fifty pounds. Until the middle
of the eighteenth century horses had not become very common among them, and the old Indian
used to laugh at the white man, so lazy that he could not walk. A consuming fire was preying
on the vitals of an ancient simple people. Unscrupulous traders, who boasted that they made
a thousand per cent, held them in the most abject thrall. It has been carefully computed that
these hunters worked, on an average, for ten cents a day. The power of their old village chiefs
grow weaker. No longer the old men taught the boys their traditions, morals, or religion. They
had ceased to be pagans, without becoming Christians.

The wearied hunter had fire-water given him as an excitement to drown the cares common to white
and red. Slowly the polity, customs, industries, morals, religion, and character of the red
race were consumed in this terrible furnace of avarice. The foundations of our early aristocracies
were laid. Byrd, in his "History of the Dividing Line," tells us that a school of seventy-seven
Indian children existed in 1720, and that they could all read and write English; but adds,
that the jealousy of traders and land speculators, who feared it would interfere with their
business, caused it to be closed. Alas! this people had encountered the iron nerve of Christianity,
without reaping the fruit of its intelligence or mercy.

Silver, although occasionally found among the North American Indians, was very rare previous
to the European conquest. Afterward, among the commodities offered, were the broad silver pieces
of the Spaniards, and the old French and English silver coins. With the most mobile spirit
the Indian at once took them. He used them as he used his shell-beads, for money and ornament.
Native artificers were common in all the tribes. The silver was beaten into rings, and broad
ornamented silver bands for the head. Handsome breast-plates were made of it; necklaces, bells
for the ankles, and rings for the toes.

It is not wonderful that Se-quo-yah's mechanical genius led him into the highest branch of
art known to his people, and that he became their greatest silversmith. His articles of silverware
excelled all similar manufactures among his countrymen.

He next conceived the idea of becoming a blacksmith. He visited the shops of white men from
time to time. He never asked to be taught the trade. He had eyes in his head, and hands; and
when he bought the necessary material and went to work, it is characteristic that his first
performance was to make his bellows and his tools; and those who afterward saw them told me
they were very well made.

Se-quo-yah was now in comparatively easy circumstances. Besides his cattle, his store, and
his farm, he was a blacksmith and a silversmith. In spite of all that has been alleged about
Indian stupidity and barbarity, his countrymen were proud of him. He was in danger of shipwrecking
on that fatal sunken reef to American character, popularity. Hospitality is the ornament, and
has been the ruin, of the aborigine. His home, his store, or his shop, became the resort of
his countrymen; there they smoked and talked, and learned to drink together. Among the Cherokees
those who have are expected to be liberal to those who have not; and whatever weaknesses he
might possess, niggardliness or meanness was not among them.

After he had grown to man's estate he learned to draw. His sketches, at first rude, at last
acquired considerable merit. He had been taught no rules of perspective; but while his perspective
differed from that of a European, he did not ignore it, like the Chinese. He had now a very
comfortable hewed-log residence, well furnished with such articles as were common with the
better class of white settlers at that time, many of them, however, made by himself.

Before he reached his thirty-fifth year he became addicted to convivial habits to an extent
that injured his business, and began to cripple his resources. Unlike most of his race, however,
he did not become wildly excited when under the influence of liquor.

Se-quo-yah, who never saw his father, and never could utter a word of the German tongue, still
carried, deep in his nature, an odd compound of Indian and German transcendentalism; essentially
Indian in opinion and prejudice, but German in instinct and thought. A little liquor only mellowed
him--it thawed away the last remnant of Indian reticence. He talked with his associates upon
all the knotty questions of law, art, and religion. Indian Theism and Pantheism were measured
against the Gospel as taught by the land-seeking, fur-buying adventurers. A good class of missionaries
had, indeed, entered the Cherokee Nation; but the shrewd Se-quo-yah, and the disciples this
stoic taught among his mountains, had just sense enough to weigh the good and the bad together,
and strike an impartial balance as the footing up for this new proselyting race.

It has been erroneously alleged that Se-quo-yah was a believer in, or practiced, the old Indian
religious rites. Christianity had, indeed, done little more for him than to unsettle the pagan
idea, but it had done that.

It was some years after Se-quo-yah had learned to present the bottle to his friends before
he degenerated into a toper. His natural industry shielded him, and would have saved him altogether
but for the vicious hospitality by which he was surrounded. With the acuteness that came of
his foreign stock, he learned to buy his liquor by the keg. This species of economy is as dangerous
to the red as to the white race. The auditors who flocked to see and hear him were not likely
to diminish while the philosopher furnished both the dogmas and the whisky. Long and deep debauches
were often the consequence. Still it was not in the nature of George Gist to be a wild, shouting
drunkard. His mild, philosophic face was kindled to deeper thought and warmer enthusiasm as
they talked about the problem of their race. All the great social questions were closely analyzed
by men who were fast becoming insensible to them. When he was too far gone to play the mild,
sedate philosopher, he began that monotonous singing whose music carried him back to the days
when the shadow of the white man never darkened the forests, and the Indian canoe alone rippled
the tranquil waters.

Should this man be thus lost? He was aroused to his danger by the relative to whom he owed
so much. His temper was eminently philosophic. He was, as he proved, capable of great effort
and great endurance. By an effort which few red or white men can or do make, he shook off the
habit, and his old nerve and old prosperity came back to him. It was during the first few years
of this century that he applied to Charles Hicks, a half-breed, afterward principal chief of
the nation, to write his English name. Hicks, although educated after a fashion, made a mistake
in a very natural way. The real name of Se-quo-yah's father was George Gist. It is now written
by the family as it has long been pronounced in the tribe when his English name is used--"Guest."
Hicks, remembering a word that sounded like it, wrote it--George Guess. It was a "rough guess,"
but answered the purpose. The silversmith was as ignorant of English as he was of any written
language. Being a fine workman, he made a steel die, a facsimile of the name written by Hicks.
With this he put his "trade mark" on his silver-ware, and it is borne to this day on many of
these ancient pieces in the Cherokee nation.

Between 1809 and 1821, which latter was his fifty-second year, the great work of his life was
accomplished. The die, which was cut before the former date, probably turned his active mind
in the proper direction. Schools and missions were being established. The power by which the
white man could talk on paper had been carefully noted and wondered at by many savages, and
was far too important a matter to have been overlooked by such a man as Se-quo-yah. The rude
hieroglyphics or pictoriographs of the Indians were essentially different from all written
language. These were rude representations of events, the symbols being chiefly the totemic
devices of the tribes. A few general signs for war, death, travel, or other common incidents,
and strokes for numerals, represented days or events as they were perpendicular or horizontal.
Even the wampum belts were little more than helps to memory, for while they undoubtedly tied
up the knots for years, like the ancient inhabitants of China and Japan, still the meagre record
could only be read by the initiated, for the Indians only intrusted their history and religion
to their best and ablest men. The general theory with many Indians was, that the written speech
of the white man was one of the mysterious gifts of the Great Spirit. Se-quo-yah boldly avowed
it to be a mere ingenious contrivance that the red man could master, if he would try.

Repeated discussion on this point at length fully turned his thoughts in this new channel.
He seems to have disdained the acquirement of the English language. Perhaps he suspected first
what he was bound to know before he completed his task, that the Cherokee language has certain
necessities and peculiarities of its own. It is almost impossible to write Indian words and
names correctly in English. The English alphabet has not capacity for its expression. If ten
white men sat down to write the word an Indian uttered, the probabilities are that one half
of them would write them differently from the other half. It is this which has led to such
endless confusion in Indian dictionaries. For instance, we write the word for the tribe Cherokee,
and the letter R, or its sound, is scarcely used in their language. Today a Cherokee always
pronounces it Chalaque, the pronunciation being between that and Shalakke. On these peculiarities
it is not the purpose of this article to enter, but hasten to George Gist, brooding over a
written language for his people.

His first essay was natural enough. He tried to invent symbols to represent words. These he
sometimes cut out of bark with his knife, but generally wrote, or rather drew. With these symbols
he would carry on a conversation with a person in another apartment. As may be supposed, his
symbols multiplied fearfully and wonderfully. The Indian languages are rich in their creative
power. By using pieces of well-known words that contain the prominent idea, double or compound
words are freely made. This has been called by writers treating this subject, the polysynthetic.
It is, in fact, a jumbling of sentences into words, by abbreviation, the omitted parts of words
being implied or understood. There is one important fact which I will merely note here that
is generally overlooked. These compounded words, to a large extent, represent the intrusive
or European idea. The names the Indians gave many of the European things were mere DEFINITIONS.
Such as "Big Knives," etc. Occasionally they made a dash at the French or English sounds, as
in the word "Yengees" for English, which has finally been corrupted in our language to Yankees.

Of course an attempt at fixed symbols for words was an unhappy experiment in a language one
prominent element of which is, the facility of making words out of pieces of words, or compounded
words. Besides this difficulty, no language can be taught successfully by means of a dictionary,
until the human memory acquires more power. Three years of hopeless struggle with the mighty
debris of his symbols left him, although in the main reticent, a mighty man of words. But his
labors were not lost. Through that heroic, unaided struggle he gained the first true glimpses
into the elements of language. It is a startling fact, that an uneducated man, of a race we
are pleased to call barbarians, attained in a few years, without books or tutors, what was
developed through several ages of Phoenician, Egyptian, and Greek wisdom.

Se-quo-yah discovered that the language possessed certain musical sounds, such as we call vowels,
and dividing sounds, styled by us consonants. In determining his vowels he varied during the
progress of his discoveries, but finally settled on the six--A, E, I, O, U, and a guttural
vowel sounding like U in UNG.

These had long and short sounds, with the exception of the guttural. He next considered his
consonant, or dividing sounds, and estimated the number of combinations of these that would
give all the sounds required to make words in their language. He first adopted fifteen for
the dividing sounds, but settled on twelve primary, the G and K being one, and sounding more
like K than G, and D like T. These may be represented in English as G, H, L, M, N, QU, T, DL
or TL, TS, W, Y, Z.

It will be seen that if these twelve be multiplied by the six vowels, the number of possible
combinations or syllables would be seventy-two, and by adding the vowel sounds, which maybe
syllables, the number would be seventy-eight. However, the guttural V, or sound of U in UNG,
does not appear as among the combinations, which make seventy-seven.

Still his work was not complete. The hissing sound of S entered into the ramifications of so
many sounds, as in STA, STU, SPA, SPE, that it would have required a large addition to his
alphabet to meet this demand. This he simplified by using a distinct character for the S (OO),
to be used in such combinations. To provide for the varying sound G, K, he added a symbol which
has been written in English KA. As the syllable NA is liable to be aspirated, he added symbols
written NAH, and KNA. To have distinct representatives for the combinations rising out of the
different sounds of D and T, he added symbols for TA, TE, TI, and another for DLA, thus TLA.
These completed the eighty-five characters of his alphabet, which was thus an alphabet of syllables,
and not of letters.

It was a subject of astonishment to scientific men that a language so copious only embraced
eighty-five syllables. This is chiefly accounted for by the fact that every Cherokee syllable
ends in a vocal or nasal sound, and that there are no double consonants but those provided
for the TL or DL, and TS, and combinations of the hissing S, with a few consonants.

The fact is, that many of our combinations of consonants in the English written language are
artificial, and worse than worthless. To indicate by a familiar illustration the syllabic character
of the alphabet of Se-quo-yah, I will take the name of William H. Seward, which was appended
to the Emancipation Proclamation of Mr. Lincoln, printed in Cherokee. It was written thus:
"O [wi] P[li] 4 [se] G [wa] 6 [te]," and might be anglicized Will Sewate. As has been observed,
there is no R in the Cherokee language, written or spoken, and as for the middle initial of
Mr. Seward's name, H., there being, of course, no initial in a syllabic alphabet, the translator,
who probably did not know what it stood for, was compelled to omit it. It was in the year 1821
that the American Cadmus completed his alphabet.

As will be observed by examining the alphabet, which is on the table in the engraving, he used
many of the letters of the English alphabet, also numerals. The fact was, that he came across
an old English spelling-book during his labors, and borrowed a great many of the symbols. Some
he reversed, or placed upside down; others he modified, or added to. He had no idea of either
their meaning or sound, in English, which is abundantly evident from the use he made of them.
As was eminently fitting, the first scholar taught in the language was the daughter of Se-quo-yah.
She, like all the other Cherokees who tried it, learned it immediately. Having completed it
without the white man's hints or aid, he visited the agent, Colonel Lowry, a gentleman of some
intelligence, who only lived three miles from him, and informed that gentleman of his invention.
It is not wonderful that the agent was skeptical, and suggested that the whole was a mere act
of memory, and that the symbols bore no relation to the language, or its necessities. Like
all other benefactors of the race, he had to encounter a little of the ridicule of those who,
being too ignorant to comprehend, maintain their credit by sneering. The rapid progress of
the language among the people settled the matter, however. The astonishing rapidity with which
it is acquired has always been a wonder, and was the first thing about it that struck the writer
of this article. In my own observation, Indian children will take one or two, at times several,
years to master the English printed and written language, but in a few days can read and write
in Cherokee. They do the latter, in fact, as soon as they learn to shape letters. As soon as
they master the alphabet they have got rid of all the perplexing questions in orthography that
puzzle the brains of our children. Is it not too much to say that a child will learn in a month,
by the same effort, as thoroughly, in the language of Se-quo-yah, that which in ours consumes
the time of our children for at least two years.

There has been a great clamor for a universal language. We once had it, in our learned world,
in the Latin, in which books were locked up for the scholars and dead to the world. Language
is the handmaiden of thought, and to be useful must be obedient to its changes as well as its
elemental characteristics. For the English of three hundred years ago we need a glossary, and
to carry down his immortal thoughts in their pristine vigor, must have, every two hundred years,
a Johnson to modernize a Shakspeare. To probe the causes of the change of language, to ascertain
why even a WRITTEN language is mutable, to pick up this garment of thought and run its threads
back through all their vagaries to their origin and points of divergence, is one of the grand
tasks for the intellectual historian. He, indeed, must give us the history of ideas, of which
all art, including language, is but the fructification. To say, therefore, that the alphabet
of Se-quo-yah is better adapted for his language than our alphabet is for the English, would
be to pay it a very wretched compliment.

George Gist received all honor from his countrymen. A short time after his invention written
communication was opened up by means of it with that portion of the Cherokee Nation then in
their new home west of the Arkansas. Zealous in his work, he traveled many hundred miles to
teach it to them; and it is no reproach to their intellect to say that they received it readily.

It has been said the Indians are besotted against all improvements. The cordiality with which
this was received is worthy of attention.

In 1823 the General Council of the Cherokee Nation voted a large silver medal to George Gist
as a mark of distinction for his discovery. On one side were two pipes, the ancient symbol
of Indian religion and law; on the other a man's head. The medal had the following inscription
in English, also in, Cherokee in his own alphabet:

"Presented to George Gist, by the General Council of the Cherokee Nation, for his ingenuity
in the invention of the Cherokee alphabet."

John Ross, acting as principal chief of the Cherokee Nation, sent it West to Se-quo-yah, together
with an elaborate address, the latter being at that time in the new nation.

In 1828 Gist went to Washington city as a delegate from the Western Cherokees. He was then
in his fifty-ninth year. At that time the portrait was taken, an engraving from which we present
to our readers. He is represented with a table containing his alphabet. The missionaries were
not slow to employ it. It was arranged with the Cherokee, and English sounds and definitions.
Rev. S.A. Worcester endeavored to get the outlines of its grammar, and both he and Mr. Boudinot
prepared vocabularies of it, as did many others. In this way, by having more and better observers,
we know more of this language than many others, and affinities have been traced between it
and some others, supposed to be radically different, which would have appeared in the case
of some others, had they been as fully or correctly written.

Besides the Scriptures, a very considerable number of books were printed in it, and parts of
several different newspapers existing from time to time; also almanacs, songs, and psalms.

During the closing portion of his life, the home of Se-quo-yah was near Brainerd, a mission
station in the new nation. Like his countrymen, he was driven an exile from his old home, from
his fields, work-shops, and orchards by the clear streams flowing from the mountains of Georgia.
Is it wonderful if such treatment should throw a sadder tinge on a disposition otherwise mild,
hopeful, and philosophic?

One of his sons is a very fair artist, using promiscuously pencil, pen, chalk, or charcoal.
He served, as a private soldier, in the Union army in the late war, and there, in his quarters,
made many sketches. His power of caricaturing was very considerable. If a humorous picture
of some officer who had rendered himself obnoxious was found, chalked in unmistakable but grotesque
lineaments, on the commissary door, it was said, "It must have been by the son of Se-quo-yah."

In his mature years, at Brainerd, although approaching seventy, the nerve or fire of the old
man was not dead. Some narrow-minded ecclesiastics, because Gist would not go through the routine
of a Christian profession after the fashion they prescribed, have not scrupled to intimate
that he was a pagan, and grieved that the Bible was printed in the language he gave. This arose
simply from not comprehending him. They persisted in considering him an ignorant savage, while
he comprehended himself and measured them.

In his old days a new and deeper ambition seized him. He was not in the habit of asking advice
or assistance in his projects. In his journey to the West, as well as to Washington, he had
an opportunity of examining different languages, of which, as far as lay in his power, he carefully
availed himself. His health had been somewhat affected by rheumatism, one of the few inheritances
he got from the old fur peddler of Ebenezer; but the strong spirit was slow to break.

He formed a theory of certain relations in the language of the Indian tribes, and conceived
the idea of writing a book on the points of similarity and divergence. Books were, to a great
extent, closed to him; but as of old, when he began his career as a blacksmith by making his
bellows, so he now fell back on his own resources. This brave Indian philosopher of ours was
not the man to be stopped by obstacles. He procured some articles for the Indian trade he had
learned in his boyhood, and putting these and his provisions and camping equipage in an ox-cart,
he took a Cherokee boy with him as driver and companion, and started out among the wild Indians
of the plain and mountain, on a philological crusade such as the world never saw.

One of the most remarkable features of his experience was the uniform peace and kindness with
which his brethren of the prairie received him. They furnished him means, too, to prosecute
his inquiries in each tribe or clan. That they should be more sullen and reticent to white
men is not wonderful when we reflect that they have a suspicion that all these pretended inquirers
in science or religion have a lurking eye to real estate. Several journeys were made. The task
was so vast it might have discouraged him. He started on his longest and his last journey.
There was among the Cherokees a tradition that part of their nation was somewhere in New Mexico,
separated from them before the advent of the whites. Se-quo-yah knew this, and expected in
his rambles to meet them. He had camped on the spurs of the Rocky Mountains; he had threaded
the valleys of New Mexico; looked at the adobe villages of the Pueblos, and among the race,
neither Indian nor Spaniard, with swarthy face and unkempt hair. He had occasion to moralize
over those who had voluntarily become the slaves of others even meaner than themselves, who
spoke a jargon neither Indian nor Spanish. Catholics in name, who ate red pepper pies, gambled
like the fashionable frequenters of Baden, and swore like troopers.

It was late in the year 1842 that the wanderer, sick of a fever, worn and weary, halted his
ox-cart near San Fernandino, in Northern Mexico. Fate had willed that his work should die with
him. But little of his labor was saved, and that not enough to aid any one to develop his idea.
Bad nursing, exposure, and lack of proper medical attendance finished the work. He sleeps,
not far from the Rio Grande, the greatest of his race.

At one time Congress contemplated having his remains removed and a monument erected over them;
it was postponed, however.

The Legislature of the Little Cherokee Nation every year includes in its general appropriations
a pension of three hundred dollars to his widow--the only literary pension paid in the United
States.

