Great Writers." EDITED BY PROFESSOR ERIC S. ROBERTSON, M.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIFE OF MILTON.

LIFE

OF

JOHN MILTON

BY

RICHARD GARNETT, LL.D.

LONDON WALTER SCOTT, 24, WARWICK LANE 1890 (All rights reserved.)

NOTE.

The number of miniature "Lives" of Milton is great; great also is the merit of some of them.
With one exception, nevertheless, they are all dismissed to the shelf by the publication of
Professor Masson's monumental and authoritative biography, without perpetual reference to which
no satisfactory memoir can henceforth be composed. One recent biography has enjoyed this advantage.
Its author, the late Mark Pattison, wanted neither this nor any other qualification except
a keener sense of the importance of the religious and political controversies of Milton's time.
His indifference to matters so momentous in Milton's own estimation has, in our opinion, vitiated
his conception of his hero, who is represented as persistently yielding to party what was meant
for mankind. We think, on the contrary, that such a mere man of letters as Pattison wishes
that Milton had been, could never have produced a "Paradise Lost." If this view is well-founded,
there is not only room but need for yet another miniature "Life of Milton," notwithstanding
the intellectual subtlety and scholarly refinement which render Pattison's memorable. It should
be noted that the recent German biography by Stern, if adding little to Professor Masson's
facts, contributes much valuable literary illustration; and that Keighley's analysis of Milton's
opinions occupies a position of its own, of which no subsequent biographical discoveries can
deprive it. The present writer has further to express his deep obligations to Professor Masson
for his great kindness in reading and remarking upon the proofs--not thereby rendering himself
responsible for anything in these pages; and also to the helpful friend who has provided him
with an index.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.                                                            11

      Milton born in Bread Street, Cheapside, December 9, 1608;
      condition of English literature at his birth; part in its
      development assigned to him; materials available for his
      biography; his ancestry; his father; influences that surrounded
      his boyhood; enters St. Paul's School, 1620; distinguished for
      compositions in prose and verse; matriculates at Cambridge, 1625;
      condition of the University at the period; his misunderstandings
      with his tutor; graduates B.A., 1629, M.A., 1632; his relations
      with the University; declines to take orders or follow a
      profession; his first poems; retires to Horton, in
      Buckinghamshire, where his father had settled, 1632

CHAPTER II.                                                           35

      Horton, its scenery and associations with Milton; Milton's studies
      and poetical aspirations; exceptional nature of his poetical
      development; his Latin poems; "Arcades" and "Comus" composed and
      represented at the instance of Henry Lawes, 1633 and 1634; "Comus"
      printed in 1637; Sir Henry Wootton's opinion of it; "Lycidas"
      written in the same year, on occasion of the death of Edward King;
      published in 1638; criticism on "L'Allegro" and "Il Penseroso,"
      "Lycidas" and "Comus"; Milton's departure for Italy, April, 1638.

CHAPTER III.                                                          57

      State of Italy at the period of Milton's visit; his acquaintance
      with Italian literati at Florence; visit to Galileo; at Rome and
      Naples; returns to England, July, 1639; settles in St. Bride's
      Churchyard, and devotes himself to the education of his nephews;
      his elegy on his friend Diodati; removes to Aldersgate Street,
      1640; his pamphlets on ecclesiastical affairs, 1641 and 1642; his
      tract on Education his "Areopagitica," November, 1644; attacks the
      Presbyterians.

CHAPTER IV.                                                           83

      Milton as a Parliamentarian; his sonnet, "When the Assault was
      intended to the City," November, 1642; goes on a visit to the
      Powell family in Oxfordshire, and returns with Mary Powell as his
      wife, May and June, 1643; his domestic unhappiness; Mary Milton
      leaves him, and refuses to return, July to September, 1643;
      publication of his "Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce," August,
      1643, and February, 1644; his father comes to live with him; he
      takes additional pupils; his system of education; he courts the
      daughter of Dr. Davis; his wife, alarmed, returns, and is
      reconciled to him, August, 1645; he removes to the Barbican,
      September, 1645; publication of his collected poems, January,
      1646; he receives his wife's relatives under his roof; death of
      his father, March, 1647; he writes "The Tenure of Kings and
      Magistrates," February, 1649; becomes Latin Secretary to the
      Commonwealth, March, 1649.

CHAPTER V.                                                           104

      Milton's duties as Latin Secretary; he drafts manifesto on the
      state of Ireland; occasionally employed as licenser of the press;
      commissioned to answer "Eikon Basilike"; controversy on the
      authorship of this work; Milton's "Eikonoklastes" published,
      October, 1649; Salmasius and his "Defensio Regia pro Carolo I.";
      Milton undertakes to answer Salmasius, February, 1650; publication
      of his "Pro Populo Anglicano Defensio," March, 1651; character and
      complete controversial success of this work; Milton becomes
      totally blind, March, 1652; his wife dies, leaving him three
      daughters, May, 1652; his controversy with Morus and other
      defenders of Salmasius, 1652-1655; his characters of the eminent
      men of the Commonwealth; adheres to Cromwell; his views on
      politics; general character of his official writings: his marriage
      to Elizabeth Woodcock, and death of his wife, November,
      1656-March, 1658; his nephews; his friends and recreations.

CHAPTER VI.                                                          128

      Milton's poetical projects after his return from Italy; drafts of
      "Paradise Lost" among them; the poem originally designed as a
      masque or miracle-play; commenced as an epic in 1658; its
      composition speedily interrupted by ecclesiastical and political
      controversies; Milton's "Treatise of Civil Power in Ecclesiastical
      Causes," and "Considerations on the likeliest means to remove
      Hirelings out of the Church"; Royalist reaction in the winter of
      1659-60; Milton writes his "Ready and Easy Way to Establish a Free
      Commonwealth"; conceals himself in anticipation of the
      Restoration, May 7, 1660; his writings ordered to be burned by the
      hangman, June 16; escapes proscription, nevertheless; arrested by
      the Serjeant-at-Arms, but released by order of the Commons,
      December 15; removes to Holborn; his pecuniary losses and
      misfortunes; the undutiful behaviour of his daughters; marries
      Elizabeth Minshull, February, 1663; lives successively in Jewin
      Street and in Artillery Walk, Bunhill Fields; particulars of his
      private life; "Paradise Lost" completed in or about 1663;
      agreement for its publication with Samuel Symmons; difficulties
      with the licenser; poem published in August, 1667.

CHAPTER VII.                                                         152

      Place of "Paradise Lost" among the great epics of the world; not
      rendered obsolete by changes in belief; the inevitable defects of
      its plan compensated by the poet's vital relation to the religion
      of his age; Milton's conception of the physical universe; his
      theology; magnificence of his poetry; his similes; his
      descriptions of Paradise; inevitable falling off of the later
      books; minor critical objections mostly groundless; his diction;
      his indebtedness to other poets for thoughts as well as phrases;
      this is not plagiarism; his versification; his Satan compared with
      Calderon's Lucifer; plan of his epic, whether in any way suggested
      by Andreini, Vondel, or Ochino; his majestic and unique position
      in English poetry.

CHAPTER VIII.                                                        173

      Milton's migration to Chalfont St. Giles to escape the plague in
      London, July, 1665; subject of "Paradise Regained" suggested to
      him by the Quaker Ellwood; his losses by the Great Fire, 1666;
      first edition of "Paradise Lost" entirely sold by April, 1669;
      "Paradise Regained" and "Samson Agonistes" published, 1671;
      criticism on these poems; Samson partly a personification of
      Milton himself, partly of the English people; Milton's life in
      Bunhill Fields; his daughters live apart from him; Dryden adapts
      "Paradise Lost" as an opera; Milton's "History of Britain," 1670;
      second editions of his poems, 1673, and of "Paradise Lost," 1674;
      his "Treatise on Christian Doctrine"; fate of the manuscript;
      Milton's mature religious opinions; his death and burial, 1674;
      subsequent history of his widow and descendants; his personal
      character.

INDEX                                                                199

LIFE OF MILTON.

CHAPTER I.

John Milton was born on December 9, 1608, when Shakespeare had lately produced "Antony and
Cleopatra," when Bacon was writing his "Wisdom of the Ancients" and Ralegh his "History of
the World," when the English Bible was hastening into print; when, nevertheless, in the opinion
of most foreigners and many natives, England was intellectually unpolished, and her literature
almost barbarous.

The preposterousness of this judgment as a whole must not blind us to the fragment of truth
which it included. England's literature was, in many respects, very imperfect and chaotic.
Her "singing masons" had already built her "roofs of gold"; Hooker and one or two other great
prose-writers stood like towers: but the less exalted portions of the edifice were still half
hewn. Some literatures, like the Latin and the French, rise gradually to the crest of their
perfection; others, like the Greek and the English, place themselves almost from the first
on their loftiest pinnacle, leaving vast gaps to be subsequently filled in. Homer was not less
the supreme poet because history was for him literally an old song, because he would have lacked
understanding for Plato and relish for Aristophanes. Nor were Shakespeare and the translators
of the Bible less at the head of European literature because they must have failed as conspicuously
as Homer would have failed in all things save those to which they had a call, which chanced
to be the greatest. Literature, however, cannot remain isolated at such altitudes, it must
expand or perish. As Homer's epic passed through Pindar and the lyrical poets into drama history
and philosophy, continually fitting itself more and more to become an instrument in the ordinary
affairs of life, so it was needful that English lettered discourse should become popular and
pliant, a power in the State as well as in the study. The magnitude of the change, from the
time when the palm of popularity decorated Sidney's "Arcadia" to that when it adorned Defoe
and Bunyan, would impress us even more powerfully if the interval were not engrossed by a colossal
figure, the last of the old school in the erudite magnificence of his style in prose and verse;
the first of the new, inasmuch as English poetry, hitherto romantic, became in his hands classical.
This "splendid bridge from the old world to the new," as Gibbon has been called in a different
connection, was John Milton: whose character and life-work, carefully analyzed, resolve themselves
into pairs of equally vivid contrasts. A stern Puritan, he is none the less a freethinker in
the highest and best sense of the term. The recipient of direct poetical inspiration in a measure
vouchsafed to few, he notwithstanding studies to make himself a poet; writes little until no
other occupation than writing remains to him; and, in general, while exhibiting even more than
the usual confidence, shows less than the usual exultation and affluence of conscious genius.
Professing to recognize his life's work in poetry, he nevertheless suffers himself to be diverted
for many a long year into political and theological controversy, to the scandal and compassion
of one of his most competent and attached biographers. Whether this biographer is right or
wrong, is a most interesting subject for discussion. We deem him wrong, and shall not cease
to reiterate that Milton would not have been Milton if he could have forgotten the citizen
in the man of letters. Happy, at all events, it is that this and similar problems occupy in
Milton's life the space which too frequently has to be spent upon the removal of misconception,
or the refutation of calumny. Little of a sordid sort disturbs the sentiment of solemn reverence
with which, more even than Shakespeare's, his life is approached by his countrymen; a feeling
doubtless mainly due to the sacred nature of his principal theme, but equally merited by the
religious consecration of his whole existence. It is the easier for the biographer to maintain
this reverential attitude, inasmuch as the prayer of Agur has been fulfilled in him, he has
been given neither poverty nor riches. He is not called upon to deal with an enormous mass
of material, too extensive to arrange, yet too important to neglect. Nor is he, like Shakespeare's
biographer, reduced to choose between the starvation of nescience and the windy diet of conjecture.
If a humbling thought intrudes, it is how largely he is indebted to a devoted diligence he
never could have emulated; how painfully Professor Masson's successors must resemble the Turk
who builds his cabin out of Grecian or Roman ruins.

Milton's genealogy has taxed the zeal and acumen of many investigators. He himself merely claims
a respectable ancestry (ex genere honesto). His nephew Phillips professed to have come upon
the root of the family tree at Great Milton, in Oxfordshire, where tombs attested the residence
of the clan, and tradition its proscription and impoverishment in the Wars of the Roses. Monuments,
station, and confiscation have vanished before the scrutiny of the Rev. Joseph Hunter; it can
only be safely concluded that Milton's ancestors dwelt in or near the village of Holton, by
Shotover Forest, in Oxfordshire, and that their rank in life was probably that of yeomen. Notwithstanding
Aubrey's statement that Milton's grandfather's name was John, Mr. Hyde Clarke's researches
in the registers of the Scriveners' Company have proved that Mr. Hunter and Professor Masson
were right in identifying him with Richard Milton, of Stanton St. John, near Holton; and Professor
Masson has traced the family a generation further back to Henry Milton, whose will, dated November
21, 1558, attests a condition of plain comfort, nearer poverty than riches. Henry Milton's
goods at his death were inventoried at £6 19s.; when his widow's will is proved, two years
afterwards, the estimate is £7 4s. 4d. Richard, his son, is stated, but not proved, to have
been an under-ranger of Shotover Forest. He appears to have married a widow named Jeffrey,
whose maiden name had been Haughton, and who had some connection with a Cheshire family of
station. He would also seem to have improved his circumstances by the match, which may account
for the superior education of his son John, whose birth is fixed by an affidavit to 1562 or
1563. Aubrey, indeed, next to Phillips and Milton himself, the chief contemporary authority,
says that he was for a time at Christ Church, Oxford--a statement in itself improbable, but
slightly confirmed by his apparent acquaintance with Latin, and the family tradition that his
course of life was diverted by a quarrel with his father. Queen Mary's stakes and faggots had
not affected Richard Milton as they affected most Englishmen. Though churchwarden in 1582,
he must have continued to adhere to the ancient faith, for he was twice fined for recusancy
in 1601, which lends credit to the statement that his son was cast off by him for Protestantism.
"Found him reading the Bible in his chamber," says Aubrey, who adds that the younger Milton
never was a scrivener's apprentice; but this is shown to be an error by Mr. Hyde Clarke's discovery
of his admission to the Scriveners' Company in 1599, where he is stated to have been apprentice
to James Colborn. Colborn himself had been only four years in business, instead of the seven
which would usually be required for an apprentice to serve out his indenture--which suggests
that some formalities may have been dispensed with on account of John Milton's age. A scrivener
was a kind of cross between an attorney and a law stationer, whose principal business was the
preparation of deeds, "to be well and truly done after my learning, skill, and science," and
with due regard to the interests of more exalted personages. "Neither for haste nor covetousness
I shall take upon me to make any deed whereof I have not cunning, without good advice and information
of counsel." Such a calling offered excellent opportunities for investments; and John Milton,
a man of strict integrity and frugality, came to possess a "plentiful estate." Among his possessions
was the house in Bread Street destroyed in the Great Fire. The tenement where the poet was
born, being a shop, required a sign, for which he chose The Spread Eagle, either from the crest
of such among the Miltons as had a right to bear arms, among whom he may have reckoned himself;
or as the device of the Scriveners' Company. He had been married about 1600 to a lady whose
name has been but lately ascertained to have been Sarah Jeffrey. John Milton the younger was
the third of six children, only three of whom survived infancy. He grew up between a sister,
Anne, several years older, and a brother, Christopher, seven years younger than himself.

Milton's birth and nurture were thus in the centre of London; but the London of that day had
not half the population of the Liverpool of ours. Even now the fragrance of the hay in far-off
meadows may be inhaled in Bread Street on a balmy summer's night; then the meadows were near
the doors, and the undefiled sky was reflected by an unpolluted stream. There seems no reason
to conclude that Milton, in his early boyhood, enjoyed any further opportunities of resort
to rural scenery than the vicinity of London could afford; but if the city is his native element,
natural beauty never appeals to him in vain.

Paramount to all other influences must have been the character of his father, a "mute" but
by no means an "inglorious" Milton, the preface and foreshadowing of the son. His great step
in life had set the son the example from which the latter never swerved, and from him the younger
Milton derived not only the independence of thought which was to lead him into moral and social
heresy, and the fidelity to principle which was to make him the Abdiel of the Commonwealth,
but no mean share of his poetical faculty also. His mastery of verbal harmony was but a new
phase of his father's mastery of music, which he himself recognizes as the complement of his
own poetical gift:--

   "Ipse volens Phoebus se dispertire duobus,
    Altera dona mihi, dedit altera dona parenti."

As a composer, the circumspect, and, as many no doubt thought prosaic scrivener, took rank
among the best of his day. One of his compositions, now lost, was rewarded with a gold medal
by a Polish prince (Aubrey says the Landgrave of Hesse), and he appears among the contributors
to The Triumphs of Oriana, a set of twenty-five madrigals composed in honour of Queen Elizabeth.
"The Teares and Lamentations of a Sorrowful Soule"--dolorous sacred songs, Professor Masson
calls them--were, according to their editor, the production of "famous artists," among whom
Byrd, Bull, Dowland, Orlando Gibbons, certainly figure, and three of them were composed by
the elder Milton. He also harmonized the Norwich and York psalm tunes, which were adapted to
six of the Psalms in Ravenscroft's Collection. Such performance bespeaks not only musical accomplishment,
but a refined nature; and we may well believe that Milton's love of learning, as well as his
love of music, was hereditary in its origin, and fostered by his contact with his father. Aubrey
distinctly affirms that Milton's skill on the organ was directly imparted to him by his father,
and there would be nothing surprising if the first rudiments of knowledge were also instilled
by him. Poetry he may have taught by precept, but the one extant specimen of his Muse is enough
to prove that he could never have taught it by example.

We have therefore to picture Milton growing up in a narrow street amid a strict Puritan household,
but not secluded from the influences of nature or uncheered by melodious recreations; and tenderly
watched over by exemplary parents--a mother noted, he tells us, for her charities among her
neighbours, and a father who had discerned his promise from the very first. Given this perception
in the head of a religious household, it almost followed in that age that the future poet should
receive the education of a divine. Happily, the sacerdotal caste had ceased to exist, and the
education of a clergyman meant not that of a priest, but that of a scholar. Milton was instructed
daily, he says, both at grammar schools and under private masters, "as my age would suffer,"
he adds, in acknowledgment of his father's considerateness. Like Disraeli two centuries afterwards
(perhaps the single point of resemblance), he went for schooling to a Nonconformist in Essex,
"who," says Aubrey, "cut his hair short." His own hair? or his pupil's? queries Biography.
We boldly reply, Both. Undoubtedly Milton's hair is short in the miniature painted of him at
the age of ten by, as is believed, Cornelius Jansen. A thoughtful little face, that of a well-nurtured,
towardly boy; lacking the poetry and spirituality of the portrait of eleven years later, where
the long hair flows down upon the ruff.

After leaving his Essex pedagogue, Milton came under the private tuition of Thomas Young, a
Scotchman from St. Andrews, who afterwards rose to be master of Jesus College, Cambridge. It
would appear from the elegies subsequently addressed to him by his pupil that he first taught
Milton to write Latin verse. This instruction was no doubt intended to be preliminary to the
youth's entrance at St. Paul's School, where he must have been admitted by 1620 at the latest.

At the time of Milton's entry, St. Paul's stood high among the schools of the metropolis, competing
with Merchant Taylors', Westminster, and the now extinct St. Anthony's. The headmaster, Dr.
Gill, was an admirable scholar, though, as Aubrey records, "he had his whipping fits." His
fitful severity was probably more tolerable than the systematic cruelty of his predecessor
Mulcaster (Spenser's schoolmaster when he presided over Merchant Taylors'), of whom Fuller
approvingly records: "Atropos might be persuaded to pity as soon as he to pardon where he found
just fault. The prayers of cockering mothers prevailed with him as much as the requests of
indulgent fathers, rather increasing than mitigating his severity on their offending children."
Milton's father, though by no means "cockering," would not have tolerated such discipline,
and the passionate ardour with which Milton threw himself into the studious life of the school
is the best proof that he was exempt from tyranny. "From the twelfth year of my age," he says,
"I scarcely ever went from my lessons to bed before midnight." The ordinary school tasks cannot
have exacted so much time from so gifted a boy: he must have read largely outside the regular
curriculum, and probably he practised himself diligently in Latin verse. For this he would
have the prompting, and perhaps the aid, of the younger Gill, assistant to his father, who,
while at the University, had especially distinguished himself by his skill in versification.
Gill must also have been a man of letters, affable and communicative, for Milton in after-years
reminds him of their "almost constant conversations," and declares that he had never left his
company without a manifest accession of literary knowledge. The Latin school exercises have
perished, but two English productions of the period, paraphrases of Psalms executed at fifteen,
remain to attest the boy's proficiency in contemporary English literature. Some of the unconscious
borrowings attributed to him are probably mere coincidences, but there is still enough to evince
acquaintance with "Sylvester, Spenser, Drummond, Drayton, Chaucer, Fairfax, and Buchanan."
The literary merit of these versions seems to us to have been underrated. There may be no individual
phrase beyond the compass of an apt and sensitive boy with a turn for verse-making; but the
general tone is masculine and emphatic. There is not much to say, but what is said is delivered
with a "large utterance," prophetic of the "os magna soniturum," and justifying his own report
of his youthful promise:--"It was found that whether aught was imposed me by them that had
the overlooking, or betaken to of mine own choice, in English or other tongue, prosing or versing,
but chiefly by this latter, the style, by certain vital signs it had, was likely to live."

Among the incidents of Milton's life at St. Paul's School should not be forgotten his friendship
with Charles Diodati, the son of a Genevese physician settled in England, whose father had
been exiled from Italy for his Protestantism. A friendship memorable not only as Milton's tenderest
and his first, but as one which quickened his instinctive love of Italian literature, enhanced
the pleasure, if it did not suggest the undertaking, of his Italian pilgrimage, and doubtless
helped to inspire the execration which he launched in after years against the slayers of the
Vaudois. The Italian language is named by him among three which, about the time of his migration
to the University, he had added to the classical and the vernacular, the other two being French
and Hebrew. It has been remarked, however, that his use of "Penseroso," incorrect both in orthography
and signification, shows that prior to his visit to Italy he was unacquainted with the niceties
of the language. He entered as "a lesser pensioner" at Christ's College, Cambridge, on February
12, 1625; the greatest poetic name in an University roll already including Spenser, and destined
to include Dryden, Gray, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, and Tennyson. Why Oxford was not preferred
has been much debated. The father may have taken advice from the younger Gill, whose Liberalism
had got him into trouble at that University. He may also have been unwilling to place his son
in the neighbourhood of his estranged relatives. Shortly before Milton's matriculation his
sister had married Mr. Edward Phillips, of the office of the Clerk of the Crown, now abolished,
then charged with the issue of Parliamentary and judicial writs. From this marriage were to
spring the young men who were to find an instructor in Milton, as he in one of them a biographer.

The external aspect of Milton's Cambridge is probably not ill represented by Lyne's coloured
map of half a century earlier, now exhibited in the King's Library at the British Museum. Piles
of stately architecture, from King's College Chapel downward, tower all about, over narrow,
tortuous, pebble-paved streets, bordered with diminutive, white-fronted, red-tiled dwellings,
mere dolls' houses in comparison. So modest, however, is the chartographer's standard, that
a flowery Latin inscription assures the men of Cambridge they need but divert Trumpington Brook
into Clare Ditch to render their town as elegant as any in the universe. Sheep and swine perambulate
the environs, and green spaces are interspersed among the colleges, sparsely set with trees,
so pollarded as to justify Milton's taunt when in an ill-humour with his university:--

   "Nuda nec arva placent, umbrasque negantia molles,
    Quam male Phoebicolis convenit ille locus!"

His own college stands conspicuous at the meeting of three ways, aptly suggestive of Hecate
and infernal things. Its spiritual and intellectual physiognomy, and that of the university
in general, must be learned from the exhaustive pages of Professor Masson. A book unpublished
when he wrote, Ball's life of Dr. John Preston, Master of Emmanuel, vestige of an entire continent
of submerged Puritanism, also contributes much to the appreciation of the place and time. We
can here but briefly characterize the University as an institution undergoing modification,
rather by the decay of the old than by the intrusion of the new. The revolution by which mathematics
became the principal instrument of culture was still to be deferred forty years. Milton, who
tells us that he delighted in mathematics, might have been nearly ignorant of that subject
if he pleased, and hardly could become proficient in it by the help of his Alma Mater. The
scholastic philosophy, however, still reigned. But even here tradition was shaky and undermined;
and in matters of discipline the rigid code which nominally governed the University was practically
much relaxed. The teaching staff was respectable in character and ability, including many future
bishops. But while the academical credentials of the tutors were unimpeachable, perhaps not
one among them all could show a commission from the Spirit. No one then at Cambridge seems
to have been in the least degree capable of arousing enthusiasm. It might not indeed have been
easy for a Newman or a Green to captivate the independent soul of Milton, even at this susceptible
period of his life; failing any approach to such external influence, he would be likely to
leave Cambridge the same man as he entered it. Ere, indeed, he had completed a year's residence,
his studies were interrupted by a temporary rupture with the University, probably attributable
to his having been at first placed under an uncongenial tutor. William Chappell was an Arminian
and a tool of Laud, who afterwards procured him preferment in Ireland, and, as Professor Masson
judges from his treatise on homiletics, "a man of dry, meagre nature." His relations with such
a pupil could not well be harmonious; and Aubrey charges him with unkindness, a vague accusation
rendered tangible by the interlined gloss, "Whipt him." Hence the legend, so dear to Johnson,
that Milton was the last man to be flogged at college. But Aubrey can hardly mean anything
more than that Chappell on some occasion struck or beat his pupil, and this interpretation
is supported by Milton's verses to Diodati, written in the spring of 1626, in which, while
acknowledging that he had been directed to withdraw from Cambridge ("nec dudum vetiti me laris
angit amor") he expresses his intention of speedily returning:--

   "Stat quoque juncosas Cami remeare paludes,
    Atque iterum raucae murmur adire scholae."

A short rustication would be just the notice the University would be likely to take of the
conduct of a pupil who had been engaged in a scuffle with his tutor, in which the fault was
not wholly or chiefly his. Formal corporal punishment would have rendered rustication unnecessary.
That Milton was not thought wholly in the wrong appears from his not having been mulcted of
a term's residence, his absence notwithstanding, and from the still more significant fact that
Chappell lost his pupil. His successor was Nathaniel Tovey, in whom his patroness, the Countess
of Bedford, had discerned "excellent talent." What Milton thought of him there is nothing to show.

This temporary interruption of the smoothness of Milton's University life occurred, as has
been seen, quite early in its course. Had it indeed implied a stigma upon him or the University,
the blot would in either case have been effaced by the perfect regularity of his subsequent
career. He went steadily through the academic course, which to attain the degree of Master
of Arts, then required seven years' residence. He graduated as Bachelor at the proper time,
March, 1629, and proceeded Master in July, 1632. His general relations with the University
during the period may be gathered partly from his own account in after years, when perhaps
he in some degree "confounded the present feelings with the past," partly from a remarkable
passage in one of his academical exercises, fortunately preserved to us, the importance of
which was first discerned by his editor and biographer Mitford. Professor Masson, however,
ascertained the date, which is all important. We must picture Milton "affable, erect, and manly,"
as Wood describes him, speaking from a low pulpit in the hall of Christ's College, to an audience
of various standing, from grave doctors to skittish undergraduates, with most of whom he was
in daily intercourse. The term is the summer of 1628, about nine months before his graduation;
the words were Latin, but we resort to the version of Professor Masson:--

      "Then also there drew and invited me, in no ordinary degree, to
      undertake this part your very recently discovered graciousness to
      me. For when, some few months ago, I was about to perform an
      oratorical office before you, and was under the impression that
      any lucubrations whatsoever of mine would be the reverse of
      agreeable to you, and would have more merciful judges in Aeacus
      and Minos than almost any of you would prove, truly, beyond my
      fancy, beyond my hope if I had any, they were, as I heard, nay, as
      I myself felt, received with the not ordinary applause of
      all--yea, of those who at other times were, on account of
      disagreements in our studies, altogether of an angry and
      unfriendly spirit towards me. A generous mode of exercising
      rivalry this, and not unworthy of a royal breast, if, when
      friendship itself is wont often to misconstrue much that is
      blamelessly done, yet then sharp and hostile enmity did not grudge
      to interpret much that was perchance erroneous, and not a little,
      doubtless, that was unskilfully said, more clemently than I
      merited."

It is sufficiently manifest from this that after two years' residence Milton had incurred much
anger and unpopularity "on account of disagreements in our studies," which can scarcely mean
anything else than his disapprobation of the University system. Notwithstanding this he had
been received on a former occasion with unexpected favour, and on the present is able to say,
"I triumph as one placed among the stars that so many men, eminent for erudition, and nearly
the whole University have flocked hither." We have thus a miniature history of Milton's connection
with his Alma Mater. We see him giving offence by the freedom of his strictures on the established
practices, and misliking them so much as to write in 1642, "Which [University] as in the time
of her better health and mine own younger judgment, I never greatly admired, so now much less."
But, on the other hand, we see his intellectual revolt overlooked on account of his unimpeachable
conduct and his brilliant talents, and himself selected to represent his college on an occasion
when an able representative was indispensable. Cambridge had all imaginable complacency in
the scholar, it was towards the reformer that she assumed, as afterwards towards Wordsworth,
the attitude of

      "Blind Authority beating with his staff
    The child that would have led him."

The University and Milton made a practical covenant like Frederick the Great and his subjects:
she did what she pleased, and he thought what he pleased. It may be added here that his comeliness
and his chastity gained him the appellation of "Lady" from his fellow collegians: and the rooms
at Christ's alleged to have been his are still pointed out as deserving the veneration of poets
in any event; for whether Milton sacrificed to Apollo in them or not, it is certain that in
them Wordsworth sacrificed to Bacchus.

For Milton's own sake and ours his departure from the University was the best thing that could
have happened to him. It saved him from wasting his time in instructing others when he ought
to be instructing himself. From the point of view of advantage to the University, it is perhaps
the most signal instance of the mischief of strictly clerical fellowships, now happily things
of the past. Only one fellowship at Christ's was tenable by a layman: to continue in academical
society, therefore, he must have taken orders. Such had been his intention when he first repaired
to Cambridge, but the young man of twenty-three saw many things differently from the boy of
sixteen. The service of God was still as much as ever the aim of his existence, but he now
thought that not all service was church service. How far he had become consciously alienated
from the Church's creed it is difficult to say. He was able, at all events, to subscribe the
Articles on taking his degree, and no trace of Arianism appears in his writings for many years.
As late as 1641 he speaks of "the tri-personal Deity." Curiously enough, indeed, the ecclesiastical
freethought of the day was then almost entirely confined to moderate Royalists, Hales, Chillingworth,
Falkland. But he must have disapproved of the Church's discipline, for he disapproved of all
discipline. He would not put himself in the position of those Irish clergymen whom Strafford
frightened out of their conscientious convictions by reminding them of their canonical obedience.
This was undoubtedly what he meant when he afterwards wrote: "Perceiving that he who would
take orders must subscribe slave." Speaking of himself a little further on as "Church-outed
by the prelates," he implies that he would not have refused orders if he could have had them
on his own terms. As regarded Milton personally this attitude was reasonable, he had a right
to feel himself above the restraints of mere formularies; but he spoke unadvisedly if he meant
to contend that a priest should be invested with the freedom of a Prophet. His words, however,
must be taken in connection with the peculiar circumstances of the time. It was an era of High
Church reaction, which was fast becoming a shameful persecution. The two moderate prelates,
Abbot and Williams, had for years been in disgrace, and the Church was ruled by the well-meaning,
but sour, despotic, meddlesome bigot whom wise King James long refused to make a bishop because
"he could not see when matters were well." But if Laud was infatuated as a statesman, he was
astute as a manager; he had the Church completely under his control, he was fast filling it
with his partisans and creatures, he was working it for every end which Milton most abhorred,
and was, in particular, allying it with a king who in 1632 had governed three years without
a Parliament. The mere thought that he must call this hierarch his Father in God, the mere
foresight that he might probably come into collision with him, and that if he did his must
be the fate of the earthen vessel, would alone have sufficed to deter Milton from entering
the Church.

Even so resolute a spirit as Milton's could hardly contemplate the
relinquishment of every definite calling in life without misgiving, and
his friends could hardly let it pass without remonstrance. There exists
in his hand the draft of a letter of reply to the verbal admonition of
some well-wisher, to whom he evidently feels that he owes deference. His
friend seems to have thought that he was yielding to the allurements of
aimless study, neglecting to return as service what he had absorbed as
knowledge. Milton pleads that his motive must be higher than the love of
lettered ease, for that alone could never overcome the incentives that
urge him to action. "Why should not all the hopes that forward youth and
vanity are afledge with, together with gain, pride, and ambition, call
me forward more powerfully than a poor, regardless, and unprofitable
sin of curiosity should be able to withhold?" And what of the "desire of
honour and repute and immortal fame seated in the breast of every true
scholar?"
    Yet be it less or more, or soon or slow,
      It shall be still in strictest measure even
      To that same lot, however mean or high,
    Towards which Time leads me, and the Will of Heaven.
      All is, if I have grace to use it so,
      As ever in my great Taskmaster's eye."

The poetical temperament is especially liable to misgiving and despondency, and from this Milton
evidently was not exempt.

There is something very fine in the steady resolution with which, after so fully admitting
to himself that his promise is yet unfulfilled, and that appearances are against him, he recurs
to his purpose, frankly owning the while that the gift he craves is Heaven's, and his only
the application. He had received a lesson against over-confidence in the failure of his solitary
effort up to this time to achieve a work on a large scale. To the eighth and last stanza of
his poem, "The Passion of Christ," is appended the note: "This subject the author finding to
be above the years he had when he wrote it, and nothing satisfied with what was begun, left
it unfinished." It nevertheless begins nobly, but soon deviates into conceits, bespeaking a
fatigued imagination.

In some degree this magnificent composition loses force in our day from its discordance with
modern sentiment. We look upon religions as members of the same family, and are more interested
in their resemblances than their antagonisms. Moloch and Dagon themselves appear no longer
as incarnate fiends, but as the spiritual counterparts of antediluvian monsters; and Milton's
treatment of the Olympian deities jars upon us who remember his obligations to them. If the
most Hebrew of modern poets, he still owed more to Greece than to Palestine. How living a thing
Greek mythology was to him from his earliest years appears from his college vacation exercise
of 1628, where there are lines which, if one did not know to be Milton's, one would declare
to be Keats's. Among his other compositions by the time of his quitting Cambridge are to be
named the superb verses, "At a Solemn Music," perhaps the most perfect expression of his ideal
of song; the pretty but over fanciful lines, "On a fair Infant dying of a cough;" and the famous
panegyric of Shakespeare, a fancy made impressive by dignity and sonority of utterance.

With such earnest of a true vocation, Milton betook himself to retirement at Horton, a village
between Colnbrook and Datchet, in the south-eastern corner of Buckinghamshire, county of nightingales,
where his father had settled himself on his retirement from business. This retreat of the elder
Milton may be supposed to have taken place in 1632, for in that year he took his clerk into
partnership, probably devolving the larger part of the business upon him. But it may have been
earlier, for in 1626 Milton tells Diodati--

   "Nos quoque lucus habet vicina consitus ulmo,
    Atque suburbani nobilis umbra loci."

And in a college declamation, which cannot have been later than 1632, he "calls to witness
the groves and rivers, and the beloved village elms, under which in the last past summer I
remember having had supreme delight with the Muses, when I too, among rural scenes and remote
forests, seemed as if I could have grown and vegetated through a hidden eternity."

CHAPTER II.

Doctor Johnson deemed "the knowledge of nature half the task of a poet," but not until he had
written all his poetry did he repair to the Highlands. Milton allows natural science and the
observation of the picturesque no place among the elements of a poetical self-education, and
his practice differs entirely from that which would in our day be adopted by an aspirant happy
in equal leisure. Such an one would probably have seen no inconsiderable portion of the globe
ere he could resolve to bury himself in a tiny hamlet for five years. The poems which Milton
composed at Horton owe so much of their beauty to his country residence as to convict him of
error in attaching no more importance to the influences of scenery. But this very excellence
suggests that the spell of scenery need not be exactly proportioned to its grandeur.

The beauties of Horton are characterized by Professor Masson as those of "rich, teeming, verdurous
flat, charming by its appearance of plenty, and by the goodly show of wood along the fields
and pastures, in the nooks where the houses nestle, and everywhere in all directions to the
sky-bound verge of the landscape." He also notices "the canal-like abundance and distribution
of water. There are rivulets brimming through the meadows among rushes and water-plants; and
by the very sides of the ways, in lieu of ditches, there are slow runnels, in which one can
see the minnows swimming." The distant keep of Windsor, "bosomed high in tufted trees," is
the only visible object that appeals to the imagination, or speaks of anything outside of rural
peace and contentment. Milton's house, as Todd was informed by the vicar of the parish, stood
till about 1798. If so, however, it is very remarkable that the writer of an account of Horton
in the Gentleman's Magazine for August, 1791, who speaks of Milton with veneration, and transcribes
his mother's epitaph, does not allude to the existence of his house. Its site is traditionally
identified with that of Berkyn Manor, near the church, and an old pigeon-house is asserted
to be a remnant of the original building. The elder Milton was no doubt merely the tenant;
his landlord is said to have been the Earl of Bridgewater, but as there is no evidence of the
Earl having possessed property in Horton, the statement may be merely an inference from Milton's
poetical connection with the family. If not Bridgewater, the landlord was probably Bulstrode,
the lord of the manor, and chief personage in the village. The Miltons still kept a footing
in the metropolis. Christopher Milton, on his admission to the Inner Temple in September, 1632,
is described as second son of John Milton of London, and subsequent legal proceedings disclose
that the father, with the aid of his partner, was still doing business as a scrivener in 1637.
It may be guessed that the veteran cit would not be sorry to find himself occasionally back
in town. What with social exclusiveness, political and religious controversy, and uncongeniality
of tastes, the Miltons' country circle of acquaintance was probably narrow. After five years
of country life the younger Milton at all events thought seriously of taking refuge in an Inn
of Court, "wherever there is a pleasant and shady walk," and tells Diodati, "Where I am now
I live obscurely and in a cramped manner." He had only just made the acquaintance of his distinguished
neighbour, Sir Henry Wotton, Provost of Eton, by the beginning of 1638, though it appears that
he was previously acquainted with John Hales.

Milton's five years at Horton were nevertheless the happiest of his life. It must have been
an unspeakable relief to him to be at length emancipated from compulsory exercises, and to
build up his mind without nod or beck from any quarter. For these blessings he was chiefly
indebted to his father, whose industry and prudence had procured his independence and his rural
retirement, and whose tender indulgence and noble confidence dispensed him from what most would
have deemed the reasonable condition that he should at least earn his own living. "I will not,"
he exclaims to his father, "praise thee for thy fulfilment of the ordinary duties of a parent,
my debt is heavier (me poscunt majora). Thou hast neither made me a merchant nor a barrister":--

           "Neque enim, pater, ire jubebas
    Qua via lata patet, qua pronior area lucri,
    Certaque condendi fulget spes aurea nummi:
    Nec rapis ad leges, male custoditaque gentis
    Jura, nec insulsis damnas clamoribus aures."

The stroke at the subserviency of the lawyers to the Crown (male custodita jura gentis) would
be appreciated by the elder Milton, nor can we doubt that the old Puritan fully approved his
son's resilience from a church denied by Arminianism and prelacy. He would not so easily understand
the dedication of a life to poetry, and the poem from which the above citation is taken seems
to have been partly composed to smooth his repugnance away. He was soon to have stronger proofs
that his son had not mistaken his vocation: it would be pleasant to be assured that the old
man was capable of valuing "Comus" and "Lycidas" at their worth. The circumstances under which
"Comus" was produced, and its subsequent publication with the extorted consent of the author,
show that Milton did not wholly want encouragement and sympathy. The insertion of his lines
on Shakespeare in the Second Folio (1632) also denotes some reputation as a wit. In the main,
however, remote from urban circles and literary cliques, with few correspondents and no second
self in sweetheart or friend, he must have led a solitary intellectual life, alone with his
great ambition, and probably pitied by his acquaintance. The special nature of Milton's studies
cannot now be exactly ascertained. Of his manner of studying he informs Diodati, "No delay,
no rest, no care or thought almost of anything holds me aside until I reach the end I am making
for, and round off, as it were, some great period of my studies." Of his object he says: "God
has instilled into me, at all events, a vehement love of the beautiful. Not with so much labour
is Ceres said to have sought Proserpine as I am wont day and night to seek for the idea of
the beautiful through all the forms and faces of things, and to follow it leading me on as
with certain assured traces." We may be sure that he read the classics of all the languages
which he understood. His copies of Euripides, Pindar, Aratus, and Lycophron, are, or have been
recently, extant, with marginal notes, proving that he weighed what he read. A commonplace
book contains copious extracts from historians, and he tells Diodati that he has read Greek
history to the fall of Constantinople. He speaks of having occasionally repaired to London
for instruction in mathematics and music. This is not the ideal of a mere scholar, as Mark
Paulson thinks he at one time was, and would wish him to have remained. "Affairs" are placed
fully on a level with "arts." Milton was kept from politics in his youth, not by any notion
of their incompatibility with poetry; but by the more cogent arguments at their command "under
whose inquisitious and tyrannical duncery no free and splendid wit can flourish."

Milton's poetical development is, in many respects, exceptional. Most poets would no doubt,
in theory, agree with Landor, "febriculis non indicari vires, impatientiam ab ignorantia non
differre," but their faith will not be proved by lack of works, as Landor's precept and example
require. He, who like Milton lisps in numbers usually sings freely in adolescence; he who is
really visited by a true inspiration generally depends on mood rather than on circumstance.
Milton, on the other hand, until fairly embarked on his great epic, was comparatively an unproductive,
and literally an occasional poet. Most of his pieces, whether English or Latin, owe their existence
to some impulse from without: "Comus" to the solicitation of a patron, "Lycidas" to the death
of a friend. The "Allegro" and the "Penseroso" seem almost the only two written at the urgency
of an internal impulse; and perhaps, if we knew their history, we should discover that they
too were prompted by extraneous suggestion or provoked into being by accident. Such is the
way with Court poets like Dryden and Claudian; it is unlike the usual procedure of Milton's
spiritual kindred. Byron, Shelley, Tennyson, write incessantly; whatever care they may bestow
upon composition, the impulse to produce is never absent. With Milton it is commonly dormant
or ineffectual; he is always studying, but the fertility of his mind bears no apparent proportion
to the pains devoted to its cultivation. He is not, like Wordsworth, labouring at a great work
whose secret progress fills him with a majestic confidence; or, like Coleridge, dreaming of
works which he lacks the energy to undertake; or, save once, does he seem to have felt with
Keats:--

   "Fears that I may cease to be
      Before my pen has gleaned my teeming brain,
    Before that books, in high piled charactery,
      Hold in rich garners the full ripened grain."

He neither writes nor wishes to write; he simply studies, piling up the wood on the altar,
and conscious of the power to call down fire from Heaven when he will. There is something sublime
in this assured confidence; yet its wisdom is less evident than its grandeur. "No man," says
Shelley, "can say, 'I will compose poetry.'" If he cannot say this of himself to-day, still
less can he say it of himself to-morrow. He cannot tell whether the illusions of youth will
forsake him wholly; whether the joy of creation will cease to thrill; what unpropitious blight
he may encounter in an enemy or a creditor, or harbour in an uncongenial mate. Milton, no doubt,
entirely meant what he said when he told Diodati: "I am letting my wings grow and preparing
to fly, but my Pegasus has not yet feathers enough to soar aloft in the fields of air." But
the danger of this protracted preparation was shown by his narrow escape from poetical shipwreck
when the duty of the patriot became paramount to that of the poet. The Civil War confounded
his anticipations of leisurely composition, and but for the disguised blessing of his blindness,
the mountain of his attainment might have been Pisgah rather than Parnassus.

It is in keeping with the infrequency of Milton's moods of overmastering inspiration, and the
strength of will which enabled him to write steadily or abstain from writing at all, that his
early compositions should be, in general, so much more correct than those of other English
poets of the first rank. The childish bombast of "Titus Andronicus," the commonplace of Wordsworth,
the frequent inanity of the youthful Coleridge and the youthful Byron, Shelley's extravagance,
Keats's cockneyism, Tennyson's mawkishness, find no counterpart in Milton's early compositions.
All these great writers, though the span of some of them was but short, lived long enough to
blush for much of what they had in the days of their ignorance taken for poetry. The mature
Milton had no cause to be ashamed of anything written by the immature Milton, reasonable allowance
being made for the inevitable infection of contemporary false taste. As a general rule, the
youthful exuberance of a Shakespeare would be a better sign; faults, no less than beauties,
often indicate the richness of the soil. But Milton was born to confute established opinions.
Among other divergencies from usage, he was at this time a rare example of an English poet
whose faculty was, in large measure, to be estimated by his essays in Latin verse. England
had up to this time produced no distinguished Latin poet, though Scotland had: and had Milton's
Latin poems been accessible, they would certainly have occupied a larger place in the estimation
of his contemporaries than his English compositions. Even now they contribute no trifling addition
to his fame, though they cannot, even as exercises, be placed in the highest rank. There are
two roads to excellence in Latin verse--to write it as a scholar, or to write it as a Roman.
England has once, and only once, produced a poet so entirely imbued with the Roman spirit that
Latin seemed to come to him like the language of some prior state of existence, rather remembered
than learned. Landor's Latin verse is hence greatly superior to Milton's, not, perhaps, in
scholarly elegance, but in absolute vitality. It would be poor praise to commend it for fidelity
to the antique, for it is the antique. Milton stands at the head of the numerous class who,
not being actually born Romans, have all but made themselves so. "With a great sum obtained
I this freedom." His Latin compositions are delightful, but precisely from the qualities least
characteristic of his genius as an English poet. Sublimity and imagination are infrequent;
what we have most commonly to admire are grace, ease, polish, and felicitous phrases rather
concise in expression than weighty with matter. Of these merits the elegies to his friend Diodati,
and the lines addressed to his father and to Manso, are admirable examples. The "Epitaphium
Damonis" is in a higher strain, and we shall have to recur to it.

Except for his formal incorporation with the University of Oxford, by proceeding M.A. there
in 1635, and the death of his mother on April 3, 1637, Milton's life during his residence at
Horton, as known to us, is entirely in his writings. These comprise the "Sonnet to the Nightingale,"
"L'Allegro," "Il Penseroso," all probably written in 1633; "Arcades," probably, and "Comus"
certainly written in 1634; "Lycidas" in 1637. The first three only are, or seem to be, spontaneous
overflowings of the poetic mind: the others are composed in response to external invitations,
and in two instances it is these which stand highest in poetic desert. Before entering on any
criticism, it will be convenient to state the originating circumstances of each piece.

"Arcades" and "Comus" both owe their existence to the musician Henry Lawes, unless the elder
Milton's tenancy of his house from the Earl of Bridgewater can be accepted as a fact. Both
were written for the Bridgewater family, and if Milton felt no special devotion to this house,
his only motive could have been to aid the musical performance of his friend Henry Lawes, whose
music is discommended by Burney, but who, Milton declares:

   "First taught our English music how to span
    Words with just note and accent."

Masques were then the order of the day, especially after the splendid exhibition of the Inns
of Court in honour of the King and Queen, February, 1634. Lawes, as a Court musician, took
a leading part in this representation, and became in request on similar occasions. The person
intended to be honoured by the "Arcades" was the dowager Countess of Derby, mother-in-law of
the Earl of Bridgewater, whose father, Lord Keeper Egerton, she had married in 1600. The aged
lady, to whom more than forty years before Spenser had dedicated his "Teares of the Muses,"
and who had ever since been an object of poetic flattery and homage, lived at Harefield, about
four miles from Uxbridge; and there the "Arcades" were exhibited, probably in 1634. Milton's
melodious verses were only one feature in a more ample entertainment. That they pleased we
may be sure, for we find him shortly afterwards engaged on a similar undertaking of much greater
importance, commissioned by the Bridgewater family.

He therefore readily fell in with Lawes's proposal to write a masque to celebrate Lord Bridgewater's
assumption of the Lord Presidency of the Welsh Marches. The Earl had entered upon the office
in October, 1633, and "Comus" was written some time between this and the following September.
Singular coincidences frequently linked Milton's fate with the north-west Midlands, from which
his grandmother's family and his brother-in-law and his third wife sprung, whither the latter
retired, where his friend Diodati lived, and his friend King died, and where now the greatest
of his early works was to be represented in the time-hallowed precincts of Ludlow Castle, where
it was performed on Michaelmas night, in 1634. If, as we should like to think, he was himself
present, the scene must have enriched his memory and his mind. The castle--in which Prince
Arthur had spent with his Spanish bride the six months of life which alone remained to him,
in which eighteen years before the performance Charles the First had been installed Prince
of Wales with extraordinary magnificence, and which, curiously enough, was to be the residence
of the Cavalier poet, Butler--would be a place of resort for English tourists, if it adorned
any country but their own. The dismantled keep is still an imposing object, lowering from a
steep hill around whose base the curving Teme alternately boils and gushes with tumultuous speed.

Lawes himself acted the attendant Spirit, the Lady and the Brothers were performed by Lord
Bridgewater's youthful children, whose own nocturnal bewilderment in Haywood Forest, could
we trust a tradition, doubted by the critics, but supported by the choice of the neighbourhood
of Severn as the scene of the drama, had suggested his theme to Milton. He is evidently indebted
for many incidents and ideas to Peele's "Old Wives' Tale," and the "Comus" of Erycius Puteanus;
but there is little morality in the former production and little fancy in the latter. The peculiar
blending of the highest morality with the noblest imagination is as much Milton's own as the
incomparable diction. "Although not openly acknowledged by the author," says Lawes in his apology
for printing prefixed to the poem, "it is a legitimate offspring, so lovely and so much desired
that the often copying of it hath tired my pen to give my several friends satisfaction, and
brought me to a necessity of producing it to the public view." The publication is anonymous,
and bears no mark of Milton's participation except a motto, which none but the author could
have selected, intimating a fear that publication is premature. The title is simply "A Maske
presented at Ludlow Castle," nor did the piece receive the name of "Comus" until after Milton's
death.

It has been remarked that one of the most characteristic traits of Milton's genius, until he
laid hand to "Paradise Lost," is the dependence of his activity upon promptings from without.
"Comus" once off his mind, he gives no sign of poetical life for three years, nor would have
given any then but for the inaccurate chart or unskilful seamanship which proved fatal to his
friend Edward King, August 10, 1637.

Suddenly the vessel struck on a rock, foundered, and all on board perished except some few
who escaped in a boat. Of King it was reported that he refused to save himself, and sank to
the abyss with hands folded in prayer. Great sympathy was excited among his friends at Cambridge,
enough at least to evoke a volume of thirty-six elegies in various languages, but not enough
to inspire any of the contributors, except Milton, with a poetical thought, while many are
so ridiculous that quotation would be an affront to King's memory. But the thirty-sixth is
"Lycidas." The original manuscript remains, and is dated in November. Of the elegy's relation
to Milton's biography it may be said that it sums up the two influences which had been chiefly
moulding his mind of late years, the natural influences of which he had been the passive recipient
during his residence at Horton, and the political and theological passion with which he was
becoming more and more inspired by the circumstances of the time. By 1637 the country had been
eight years without a parliament, and the persecution of Puritans had attained its acme. In
that year Laud's new Episcopalian service book was forced, or rather was attempted to be forced,
upon Scotland; Prynne lost his ears; and Bishop Williams was fined eighteen thousand pounds
and ordered to be imprisoned during the King's pleasure. Hence the striking, if incongruous,
introduction of "The pilot of the Galilean lake," to bewail, in the character of a shepherd,
the drowned swain in conjunction with Triton, Hippotades, and Camus. "The author," wrote Milton
afterwards, "by occasion, foretells the ruin of the corrupted clergy, then in their height."
It was a Parthian dart, for the volume was printed at the University Press in 1638, probably
a little before his departure for Italy.

The "Penseroso" and the "Allegro," notwithstanding that each piece is the antithesis of the
other, are complementary rather than contrary, and may be, in a sense, regarded as one poem,
whose theme is the praise of the reasonable life. It resembles one of those pictures in which
the effect is gained by contrasted masses of light and shade, but each is more nicely mellowed
and interfused with the qualities of the other than it lies within the resources of pictorial
skill to effect. Mirth has an undertone of gravity, and melancholy of cheerfulness. There is
no antagonism between the states of mind depicted; and no rational lover, whether of contemplation
or of recreation, would find any difficulty in combining the two. The limpidity of the diction
is even more striking than its beauty. Never were ideas of such dignity embodied in verse so
easy and familiar, and with such apparent absence of effort. The landscape-painting is that
of the seventeenth century, absolutely true in broad effects, sometimes ill-defined and even
inaccurate in minute details. Some of these blemishes are terrible in nineteenth-century eyes,
accustomed to the photography of our Brownings and Patmores. Milton would probably have made
light of them, and perhaps we owe him some thanks for thus practically refuting the heresy
that inspiration implies infallibility.

"The song of the nightingale," remarks Peacock, "ceases about the time the grass is mown."
The charm, however, is less in such detached beauties, however exquisite, than in the condensed
opulence--"every epithet a text for a canto," says Macaulay--and in the general impression
of "plain living and high thinking," pursued in the midst of every charm of nature and every
refinement of culture, combining the ideal of Horton with the ideal of Cambridge.

"Lycidas" is far more boldly conventional, not merely in the treatment of landscape, but in
the general conception and machinery. An initial effort of the imagination is required to feel
with the poet; it is not wonderful that no such wing bore up the solid Johnson. Talk of Milton
and his fellow-collegian as shepherds! "We know that they never drove afield, and that they
had no flocks to batten." There is, in fact, according to Johnson, neither nature nor truth
nor art nor pathos in the poem, for all these things are inconsistent with the introduction
of a shepherd of souls in the character of a shepherd of sheep. A nineteenth-century reader,
it may be hoped, finds no more difficulty in idealizing Edward King as a shepherd than in personifying
the ocean calm as "sleek Panope and all her sisters," which, to be sure, may have been a trouble
to Johnson. Its innumerable beauties are rather exquisite than magnificent. It is an elegy,
and cannot, therefore, rank as high as an equally consummate example of epic, lyric, or dramatic
art. Even as elegy it is surpassed by the other great English masterpiece, "Adonais," in fire
and grandeur. There is no incongruity in "Adonais" like the introduction of "the pilot of the
Galilean lake"; its invective and indignation pour naturally out of the subject; their expression
is not, as in "Lycidas," a splendid excrescence. There is no such example of sustained eloquence
in "Lycidas" as the seven concluding stanzas of "Adonais" beginning, "Go thou to Rome." But
the balance is redressed by the fact that the beauties of "Adonais" are the inimitable. Shelley's
eloquence is even too splendid for elegy. It wants the dainty thrills and tremors of subtle
versification, and the witcheries of verbal magic in which "Lycidas" is so rich--"the opening
eyelids of the morn;" "smooth-sliding Mincius, crowned with vocal reeds;" Camus's garment,
"inwrought with figures dim;" "the great vision of the guarded mount;" It will be noticed that
these exquisite phrases have little to do with Lycidas himself, and it is a fact not to be
ignored, that though Milton and Shelley doubtless felt more deeply than Dryden when he composed
his scarcely inferior threnody on Anne Killegrew, whom he had never seen, both might have found
subjects of grief that touched them more nearly. Shelley tells us frankly that "in another's
woe he wept his own."

"Comus," the richest fruit of Milton's early genius, is the epitome of the man at the age at
which he wrote it. It bespeaks the scholar and idealist, whose sacred enthusiasm is in some
danger of contracting a taint of pedantry for want of acquaintance with men and affairs. The
Elder Brother is a prig, and his dialogues with his junior reveal the same solemn insensibility
to the humorous which characterizes the kindred genius of Wordsworth, and would have provoked
the kindly smile of Shakespeare. It is singular to find the inevitable flaw of "Paradise Lost"
prefigured here, and the wicked enchanter made the real hero of the piece. These defects are
interesting, because they represent the nature of Milton as it was then, noble and disinterested
to the height of imagination, but self-assertive, unmellowed, angular. They disappear entirely
when he expatiates in the regions of exalted fancy, as in the introductory discourse of the
Spirit, and the invocation to Sabrina. They recur when he moralizes; and his morality is too
interwoven with the texture of his piece to be other than obtrusive. He fatigues with virtue,
as Lucan fatigues with liberty; in both instances the scarcely avoidable error of a young preacher.
What glorious morality it is no one need be told; nor is there any poem in the language where
beauties of thought, diction, and description spring up more thickly than in "Comus." No drama
out of Shakespeare has furnished such a number of the noblest familiar quotations. It is, indeed,
true that many of these jewels are fetched from the mines of other poets: great as Milton's
obligations, to Nature were, his obligations to books were greater. But he has made all his
own by the alchemy of his genius, and borrows little but to improve. The most remarkable coincidence
is with a piece certainly unknown to him--Calderon's "Magico Prodigioso," which was first acted
in 1637, the year of the publication of "Comus," a great year in the history of the drama,
for the "Cid" appeared in it also. The similarity of the situations of Justina tempted by the
Demon, and the Lady in the power of Comus, has naturally begotten a like train of thought in
both poets.

     "Justina. Thought is not in my power, but action is.
    I will not move my foot to follow thee.

      Demon.

      Justina. By my free will.

      Demon.                    I
    Must force thy will.

      Justina.           It is invincible.
    It were not free if thou had'st power upon it."

It must be admitted that where the Spaniard and the Englishman come directly into competition
the former excels. The dispute between the Lady and Comus may be, as Johnson says it is, "the
most animating and affecting scene in the drama;" but, tried by the dramatic test which Calderon
bears so well, it is below the exigencies and the possibilities of the subject. Nor does the
poetry here, quite so abundantly as in the other scenes in this unrivalled "suite of speeches,"
atone for the deficiencies of the play.

It is a just remark of Pattison's that "in a mind of the consistent texture of Milton's, motives
are secretly influential before they emerge in consciousness." In September, 1637, Milton had
complained to Diodati of his cramped situation in the country, and talked of taking chambers
in London. Within a few months we find this vague project matured into a settled scheme of
foreign travel. One tie to home had been severed by the death of his mother in the preceding
April; and his father was to find another prop of his old age in his second son, Christopher,
about to marry and reside with him. "Lycidas" had appeared meanwhile, or was to appear, and
its bold denunciation of the Romanizing clergy might well offend the ruling powers. The atmosphere
at home was, at all events, difficult breathing for an impotent patriot; and Milton may have
come to see what we so clearly see in "Comus," that his asperities and limitations needed contact
with the world. Why speak of the charms of Italy, in themselves sufficient allurement to a
poet and scholar?

CHAPTER III.

Four times has a great English poet taken up his abode in "the paradise of exiles," and remained
there until deeply imbued with the spirit of the land. The Italian residence of Byron and Shelley,
of Landor and Browning, has infused into English literature a new element which has mingled
with its inmost essence. Milton's brief visit could not be of equal moment. Italian letters
had already done their utmost for him; and he did not stay long enough to master the secret
of Italian life. A real enthusiasm for Italy's classical associations is indicated by his original
purpose of extending his travels to Greece, an enterprise at that period requiring no little
disdain of hardship and peril. But it would have been an anachronism if he could have contemplated
the comprehensive and scientific scheme of self-culture by Italian influences of every kind
which, a hundred and fifty years later, was conceived and executed by Goethe. At the time of
Milton's visit Italian letters and arts sloped midway in their descent from the Renaissance
to the hideous but humorous rococo so graphically described by Vernon Lee. Free thought had
perished along with free institutions in the preceding century, and as a consequence, though
the physical sciences still numbered successful cultivators, originality of mind was all but
extinct. Things, nevertheless, wore a gayer aspect than of late. The very completeness of the
triumph of secular and spiritual despotism had made them less suspicious, surly, and austere.
Spanish power was visibly decaying. The long line of zelanti Popes had come to an end; and
it was thought that if the bosom of the actual incumbent could be scrutinized, no little complacency
in Swedish victories over the Faith's defenders would be found. An atmosphere of toleration
was diffusing itself, bigotry was imperceptibly getting old-fashioned, the most illustrious
victim of the Inquisition was to be well-nigh the last. If the noble and the serious could
not be permitted, there was no ban upon the amiable and the frivolous: never had the land been
so full of petty rhymesters, antiquarian triflers, and gregarious literati, banded to play
at authorship in academies, like the seven Swabians leagued to kill the hare. For the rest,
the Italy of Milton's day, its superstition and its scepticism, and the sophistry that strove
to make the two as one; its monks and its bravoes; its processions and its pantomimes; its
cult of the Passion and its cult of Paganism; the opulence of its past and the impotence of
its present; will be found depicted by sympathetic genius in the second volume of "John Inglesant."

Milton arrived in Paris about the end of April or beginning of May. Of his short stay there
it is only known that he was received with distinction by the English Ambassador, Lord Scudamore,
and owed to him an introduction to one of the greatest men in Europe, Hugo Grotius, then residing
at Paris as envoy from Christina of Sweden. Travelling by way of Nice, Genoa, Leghorn, and
Pisa, he arrived about the beginning of August at Florence; where, probably by the aid of good
recommendations, he "immediately contracted the acquaintance of many noble and learned," and
doubtless found, with the author of "John Inglesant," that "nothing can be more delightful
than the first few days of life in Italy in the company of polished and congenial men." The
Florentine academies, he implies answered one of the purposes of modern clubs, and enabled
the traveller to multiply one good introduction into many. He especially mentions Gaddi, Dati,
Frescobaldi, Coltellini, Bonmattei, Chimentelli, and Francini, of all of whom a full account
will be found in Masson. Two of them, Dati and Francini, have linked their names with Milton's
by their encomiums on him inserted in his works. The key-note of these surprising productions
is struck by Francini when he remarks that the heroes of England are accounted in Italy superhuman.
If this is so, Dati may be justified in comparing a young man on his first and last foreign
tour to the travelled Ulysses; and Francini in declaring that Thames rivals Helicon in virtue
of Milton's Latin poems, which alone the panegyrist could read. Truly, as Smollett says, Italian
is the language of compliments. If ludicrous, however, the flattery is not nauseous, for it
is not wholly insincere. Amid all conventional exaggerations there is an under-note of genuine
feeling, showing that the writers really had received a deep impression from Milton, deeper
than they could well explain or understand. The bow drawn at a venture did not miss the mark,
but it is a curious reflection that those of his performances which would really have justified
their utmost enthusiasm were hieroglyphical to them. Such of his literary exercises as they
could understand consisted, he says, of "some trifles which I had in memory composed at under
twenty or thereabout; and other things which I had shifted, in scarcity of books and conveniences,
to patch up among them." The former class of compositions may no doubt be partly identified
with his college declamations and Latin verses. What the "things patched up among them" may
have been is unknown. It is curious enough that his acquaintance with the Italian literati
should have been the means of preserving one of their own compositions, the "Tina" of Antonio
Malatesti, a series of fifty sonnets on a mistress, sent to him in manuscript by the author,
with a dedication to the illustrissimo signore et padrone osservatissimo. The pieces were not
of a kind to be approved by the laureate of chastity, and annoyance at the implied slur upon
his morals may account for his omission of Malatesti from the list of his Italian acquaintance.
He carried the MS. home, nevertheless, and a copy of it, finding its way back to Italy in the
eighteenth century, restored Malatesti's fifty indiscretions to the Italian Parnassus. That
his intercourse with men of culture involved freedom of another sort we learn from himself.
"I have sate among their learned men," he says, "and been counted happy to be born in such
a place of philosophic freedom as they supposed England was, while they themselves did nothing
but bemoan the servile condition into which learning amongst them was brought, that this was
it which had damped the glory of Italian wits; that nothing had been written there now these
many years but flattery and fustian." Italy had never acquiesced in her degradation, though
for a century and a half to come she could only protest in such conventicles as those frequented
by Milton.

The very type and emblem of the free spirit of Italy, crushed but not conquered, then inhabited
Florence in the person of "the starry Galileo," lately released from confinement at Arcetri,
and allowed to dwell in the city under such severe restraint of the Inquisition that no Protestant
should have been able to gain access to him. It may not have been until Milton's second visit
in March, 1639, when Galileo had returned to his villa, that the English stranger stood unseen
before him. The meeting between the two great blind men of their century is one of the most
picturesque in history; it would have been more pathetic still if Galileo could have known
that his name would be written in "Paradise Lost," or Milton could have foreseen that within
thirteen years he too would see only with the inner eye, but that the calamity which disabled
the astronomer would restore inspiration to the poet.

It would be interesting to know if Milton's Florentine acquaintance included that romantic
adventurer, Robert Dudley, strange prototype of Shelley in face and fortune, whom Lord Herbert
of Cherbury and Dean Bargrave encountered at Florence, but whom Milton does not mention. The
next stage in his pilgrimage was the Eternal City, by this time resigned to live upon its past.
The revenues of which Protestant revolt had deprived it were compensated by the voluntary contributions
of the lovers of antiquity and art; and it had become under Paul V. one of the centres of European
finance. Recent Popes had added splendid architectural embellishments, and the tendency to
secular display was well represented by Urban VIII., a great gatherer and a great dispenser
of wealth, an accomplished amateur in many arts, and surrounded by a tribe of nephews, inordinately
enriched by their indulgent uncle. Milton arrived early in October. The most vivid trace of
his visit is his presence at a magnificent concert given by Cardinal Barberini, who, "himself
waiting at the doors, and seeking me out in so great a crowd, nay, almost laying hold of me
by the hand, admitted me within in a truly most honourable manner." There he heard the singer,
Leonora Baroni, to whom he inscribed three Latin epigrams, omitted from the fifty-six compositions
in honour of her published in the following year. But we may see her as he saw her in the frontispiece,
reproduced in Ademollo's monograph upon her. The face is full of sensibility, but not handsome.
She lived to be a great lady, and if any one spoke of her artist days she would say, Chi le
ricercava queste memorie? Next to hers, the name most entwined with Milton's Roman residence
is that of Lucas Holstenius, a librarian of the Vatican. Milton can have had little respect
for a man who had changed his religion to become the dependant of Cardinal Barberini, but Holstenius's
obliging reception of him extorted his gratitude, expressed in an eloquent letter. Of the venerable
ruins and masterpieces of ancient and modern art which have inspired so many immortal compositions,
Milton tells us nothing, and but one allusion to them is discoverable in his writings. The
study of antiquity, as distinguished from that of classical authors, was not yet a living element
in European culture: there is also truth in Coleridge's observation that music always had a
greater attraction for Milton than plastic art.

After two months' stay in Rome, Milton proceeded to Naples, whence, after two months' residence,
he was recalled by tidings of the impending troubles at home, just as he was about to extend
his travels to Sicily and Greece. The only name associated with his at Naples is that of the
Marquis Manso, then passing his seventy-ninth year with the halo of reverence due to a veteran
who fifty years ago had soothed and shielded Tasso, and since had protected Marini. He now
entertained Milton with equal kindness, little dreaming that in return for hospitality he was
receiving immortality. Milton celebrated his desert as the friend of poets, in a Latin poem
of singular elegance, praying for a like guardian of his own fame, in lines which should never
be absent from the memory of his biographers. He also unfolded the project which he then cherished
of an epic on King Arthur, and assured Manso that Britain was not wholly barbarous, for the
Druids were really very considerable poets. He is silent on Chaucer and Shakespeare. Manso
requited the eulogium with an epigram and two richly-wrought cups, and told Milton that he
would have shown him more observance still if he could have abstained from religious controversy.
Milton had not acted on Sir Henry Wootton's advice to him, il volto sciolto, i pensieri stretti.
"I had made this resolution with myself," he says, "not of my own accord to introduce conversation
about religion; but, if interrogated respecting the faith, whatsoever I should suffer, to dissemble
nothing." To this resolution he adhered, he says, during his second two months' visit to Rome,
notwithstanding threats of Jesuit molestation, which probably were not serious. At Florence
his friends received him with no less warmth than if they had been his countrymen, and with
them he spent another two months. His way to Venice lay through Bologna and Ferrara, and if
his sonnets in the Italian language were written in Italy, and all addressed to the same person,
it was probably at Bologna, since the lady is spoken of as an inhabitant of "Reno's grassy
vale," and the Reno is a river between Bologna and Ferrara. But there are many difficulties
in the way of this theory, and, on the whole, it seems most reasonable to conclude that the
sonnets were composed in England, and that their autobiographical character is at least doubtful.
That nominally inscribed to Diodati, however, would well suit Leonora Baroni. Diodati had been
buried in Blackfriars on August 27, 1638, but Milton certainly did not learn the fact until
after his visit to Naples, and possibly not until he came to pass some time at Geneva with
Diodati's uncle. He had come to Geneva from Venice, where he had made some stay, shipping off
to England a cargo of books collected in Italy, among which were many of "immortal notes and
Tuscan air." These, we may assume, he found awaiting him when he again set foot on his native
soil, about the end of July, 1639.

Milton's conduct on his return justifies Wordsworth's commendation:--

                              "Thy heart
    The lowliest duties on herself did lay."

Full, as his notebooks of the period attest, of magnificent aspiration for "flights above the
Aonian mount," he yet quietly sat down to educate his nephews, and lament his friend. His brother-in-law
Phillips had been dead eight years, leaving two boys, Edward and John, now about nine and eight
respectively. Mrs. Phillips's second marriage had added two daughters to the family, and from
whatever cause, it was thought best that the education of the sons should be conducted by their
uncle. So it came to pass that "he took him a lodging in St. Bride's Churchyard, at the house
of one Russel, a tailor;" Christopher Milton continuing to live with his father.

We may well believe that when the first cares of resettlement were over, Milton found no more
urgent duty than the bestowal of a funeral tribute upon his friend Diodati. The "Epitaphium
Damonis" is the finest of his Latin poems, marvellously picturesque in expression, and inspired
by true manly grief. In Diodati he had lost perhaps the only friend whom, in the most sacred
sense of the term, he had ever possessed; lost him when far away and unsuspicious of the already
accomplished stroke; lost him when returning to his side with aspirations to be imparted, and
intellectual treasures to be shared. Bis ille miser qui serus amavit. All this is expressed
with earnest emotion in truth and tenderness, surpassing "Lycidas," though void of the varied
music and exquisite felicities which could not well be present in the conventionalized idiom
of a modern Latin poet. The most pathetic passage is that in which he contrasts the general
complacency of animals in their kind with man's dependence for sympathy on a single breast;
the most biographically interesting where he speaks of his plans for an epic on the story of
Arthur, which he seems about to undertake in earnest. But the impulses from without which generally
directed the course of this seemingly autocratic, but really susceptible, nature, urged him
in quite a different direction: for some time yet he was to live, not make a poem.

The tidings which, arriving at Naples about Christmas, 1638, prevailed upon Milton to abandon
his projected visit to Sicily and Greece, were no doubt those of the revolt of Scotland, and
Charles's resolution to quell it by force of arms. Ere he had yet quitted Italy, the King's
impotence had been sufficiently demonstrated, and about a month ere he stood on English soil
the royal army had "disbanded like the break-up of a school." Milton may possibly have regretted
his hasty return, but before many months had passed it was plain that the revolution was only
beginning. Charles's ineffable infatuation brought on a second Scottish war, ten times more
ridiculously disastrous than the first, and its result left him no alternative but the convocation
(November, 1640) of the Long Parliament, which sent Laud to the Tower and Strafford to the
block, cleared away servile judges and corrupt ministers, and made the persecuted Puritans
persecutors in their turn. Not a member of this grave assemblage, perhaps, but would have laughed
if told that not its least memorable feat was to have prevented a young schoolmaster from writing
an epic.

Milton had by this time found the lodgings in St. Bride's Churchyard insufficient for him,
and had taken a house in Aldersgate Street, beyond the City wall, and suburban enough to allow
him a garden. "This street," writes Howell, in 1657, "resembleth an Italian street more than
any other in London, by reason of the spaciousness and uniformity of the buildings and straightness
thereof, with the convenient distance of the houses." He did not at this time contemplate mixing
actively in political or religious controversy.

      "I looked about to see if I could get any place that would hold
      myself and my books, and so I took a house of sufficient size in
      the city; and there with no small delight I resumed my intermitted
      studies; cheerfully leaving the event of public affairs, first to
      God, and then to those to whom the people had committed that
      task."

But this was before the convocation of the Long Parliament. When it had met,

      "Perceiving that the true way to liberty followed on from these
      beginnings, inasmuch also as I had so prepared myself from my
      youth that, above all things, I could not be ignorant what is of
      Divine and what of human right, I resolved, though I was then
      meditating certain other matters, to transfer into this struggle
      all my genius and all the strength of my industry."

Milton's note-books, to be referred to in another place, prove that he did not even then cease
to meditate themes for poetry, but practically he for eighteen years ceased to be a poet.

There is no doubt something grating and unwelcome in the descent of the scholar from regions
of serene culture to fierce political and religious broils. But to regret with Pattison that
Milton should, at this crisis of the State, have turned aside from poetry to controversy is
to regret that "Paradise Lost" should exist. Such a work could not have proceeded from one
indifferent to the public weal, and if Milton had been capable of forgetting the citizen in
the man of letters we may be sure that "a little grain of conscience" would ere long have "made
him sour." It is sheer literary fanaticism to speak with Pattison of "the prostitution of genius
to political party." Milton is as much the idealist in his prose as in his verse; and although
in his pamphlets he sides entirely with one of the two great parties in the State, it is not
as its instrument, but as its prophet and monitor. He himself tells us that controversy is
highly repugnant to him.

But he felt that if he allowed such motives to prevail with him, it would be said to him:

      "Timorous and ungrateful, the Church of God is now again at the
      foot of her insulting enemies, and thou bewailest, What matters it
      for thee or thy bewailing? When time was, thou would'st not find a
      syllable of all that thou hast read or studied to utter on her
      behalf. Yet ease and leisure was given thee for thy retired
      thoughts, but of the sweat of other men. Thou hast the diligence,
      the parts, the language of a man, if a vain subject were to be
      adorned or beautified; but when the cause of God and His Church
      was to be pleaded, for which purpose that tongue was given thee
      which thou hast, God listened if He could hear thy voice among His
      zealous servants, but thou wert dumb as a beast; from henceforward
      be that which thine own brutish silence hath made thee."

A man with "Paradise Lost" in him must needs so think and act, and, much
as it would have been to have had another "Comus" or "Lycidas," were not
even such well exchanged for a hymn like this, the high-water mark of
English impassioned prose ere Milton's mantle fell upon Ruskin? And Thou, the third subsistence of
      Divine Infinitude, illuminating Spirit, the joy and solace of
      created things! one Tri-personal godhead! look upon this Thy poor
      and almost spent and expiring Church, leave her not thus a prey to
      these importunate wolves, that wait and think long till they
      devour Thy tender flock; these wild boars that have broke into Thy
      vineyard, and left the print of their polluting hoofs on the souls
      of Thy servants. O let them not bring about their damned designs
      that stand now at the entrance of the bottomless pit, expecting
      the watchword to open and let out those dreadful locusts and
      scorpions to reinvolve us in that pitchy cloud of infernal
      darkness, where we shall never more see the sun of Thy truth
      again, never hope for the cheerful dawn, never more hear the bird
      of morning sing. Be moved with pity at the afflicted state of this
      our shaken monarchy, that now lies labouring under her throes, and
      struggling against the grudges of more dreaded calamities.

      "O Thou, that, after the impetuous rage of five bloody
      inundations, and the succeeding sword of intestine war, soaking
      the land in her own gore, didst pity the sad and ceaseless
      revolution of our swift and thick-coming sorrows; when we were
      quite breathless of Thy free grace didst motion peace and terms of
      covenant with us; and, having first well-nigh freed us from
      anti-Christian thraldom, didst build up this Britannic Empire to a
      glorious and enviable height, with all her daughter-islands about
      her; stay us in this felicity, let not the obstinacy of our
      half-obedience and will-worship bring forth that viper of
      sedition, that for these fourscore years hath been breeding to eat
      through the entrails of our peace; but let her cast her abortive
      spawn without the danger of this travailing and throbbing kingdom:
      that we may still remember in our solemn thanksgivings, how, for
      us, the northern ocean, even to the frozen Thule, was scattered
      with the proud shipwrecks of the Spanish Armada, and the very maw
      of Hell ransacked, and made to give up her concealed destruction,
      ere she could vent it in that horrible and damned blast.

      "O how much more glorious will those former deliverances appear,
      when we shall know them not only to have saved us from greatest
      miseries past, but to have reserved us for greatest happiness to
      come? Hitherto Thou hast but freed us, and that not fully, from
      the unjust and tyrannous claim of Thy foes, now unite us entirely
      and appropriate us to Thyself, tie us everlastingly in willing
      homage to the prerogative of Thy eternal throne.

      "And now we know, O Thou, our most certain hope and defence, that
      Thine enemies have been consulting all the sorceries of the great
      whore, and have joined their plots with that sad, intelligencing
      tyrant that mischiefs the world with his mines of Ophir, and lies
      thirsting to revenge his naval ruins that have larded our seas:
      but let them all take counsel together, and let it come to nought;
      let them decree, and do Thou cancel it; let them gather
      themselves, and be scattered; let them embattle themselves, and be
      broken; let them embattle, and be broken, for Thou art with us.

      "Then amidst the hymns and hallelujahs of saints, some one may
      perhaps be heard offering at high strains in new and lofty
      measures, to sing and celebrate Thy Divine mercies and marvellous
      judgments in this land throughout all ages; whereby this great and
      warlike nation, instructed and inured to the fervent and continual
      practice of truth and righteousness, and casting far from her the
      rags of her old vices, may press on hard to that high and happy
      emulation to be found the soberest, wisest, and most Christian
      people at that day, when Thou, the Eternal and shortly-expected
      King, shalt open the clouds to judge the several kingdoms of the
      world, and distributing national honours and rewards to religious
      and just commonwealths, shall put an end to all earthly tyrannies,
      proclaiming Thy universal and mild monarchy through heaven and
      earth; where they undoubtedly, that by their labours, counsels,
      and prayers, have been earnest for the common good of religion,
      and their country, shall receive above the inferior orders of the
      blessed, the regal addition of principalities, legions, and
      thrones into their glorious titles, and in supereminence of
      beatific vision, progressing the dateless and irrevoluble circle
      of eternity, shall clasp inseparable hands with joy and bliss, in
      over-measure for ever.

      "But they contrary, that by the impairing and diminution of the
      true faith, the distresses and servitude of their country, aspire
      to high dignity, rule and promotion here, after a shameful end in
      this life (which God grant them), shall be thrown down eternally
      into the darkest and deepest gulf of Hell, where, under the
      despiteful control, the trample and spurn of all the other damned,
      that in the anguish of their torture, shall have no other ease
      than to exercise a raving and bestial tyranny over them as their
      slaves and negroes, they shall remain in that plight for ever, the
      basest, the lowermost, the most dejected, most underfoot, and
      down-trodden vassals of perdition."

The five pamphlets in which Milton enunciated his views on Church Government fall into two
well-marked chronological divisions. Three--"Of Reformation touching Church Discipline in England,"
"Of Prelatical Episcopacy," "Animadversions upon the Remonstrant's Defence against Smectymnuus"--which
appeared almost simultaneously, belong to the middle of 1641, when the question of episcopacy
was fiercely agitated. Two--"The Reason of Church Government urged against Prelacy," and "The
Apology for Smectymnuus,"[1] belong to the early part of 1642, when the bishops had just been
excluded from the House of Lords. To be just to Milton we must put ourselves in his position.
At the present day forms of church government are usually debated on the ground of expediency,
and even those to whom they seem important cannot regard them as they were regarded by Milton's
contemporaries. Many may protest against Episcopacy receiving especial recognition from the
State, but no one dreams of abolishing it, or of endowing another form of ecclesiastical administration
in its room. It is no longer contended that the national religion should be changed, the contention
is that no religion should be national, but that all should be placed on an impartial footing.
But Milton at this time desired a theocracy, and nothing doubted that he could produce a pattern
agreeable in every respect to the Divine will if only Prelacy could be hurled after Popery.
The controversy, therefore, assumed far grander proportions than would be possible in our day,
when it is three-fourths a protest against the airs of superiority which the alleged successors
of the Apostles think it becoming to assume towards teachers whose education and circumstances
approach more closely than their own to the Apostolic model. What would seem exaggerated now
was then perfectly in place. Milton, in his own estimation, had a theme for which the cloven
tongues of Pentecost were none too fiery, or the tongues of angels too melodious. As bursts
of impassioned prose-poetry the finest passages in these writings have never been surpassed,
nor ever will be equalled so long as short sentences prevail, and the interminable period must
not unfold itself in heights and hollows like the incoming tide of ocean, nor peal forth melodious
thunder like a mighty organ. But, considered as argumentative compositions, they are exceedingly
weak. No masculine head could be affected by them; but a manly heart may easily imbibe the
generous contagion of their noble enthusiastic idealism. No man with a single fibre of ideality
or enthusiasm can help confessing that Milton has risen to a transcendent height, and he may
imagine that it has been attained by the ladder of reason rather than the pinion of poetry.
Such an one may easily find reasons for agreeing with Milton in many inspired outbursts of
eloquence simulating the logic that is in fact lacking to them. The following splendid passage,
for instance, and there are very many like it, merely proves that a seat in the House of Lords
is not essential to the episcopal office, which no one ever denied. It would have considerable
force if the question involved the nineteenth century one of the Pope's temporal sovereignty:--

      "Certainly there is no employment more honourable, more worthy to
      take up a great spirit, more requiring a generous and free
      nurture, than to be the messenger and herald of heavenly truth
      from God to man, and by the faithful work of holy doctrine to
      procreate a number of faithful men, making a kind of creation like
      to God's by infusing his spirit and likeness into them, to their
      salvation, as God did into him; arising to what climate soever he
      turn him, like that Sun of Righteousness that sent him, with
      healing in his wings, and new light to break in upon the chill and
      gloomy hearts of his hearers, raising out of darksome barrenness a
      delicious and fragrant spring of saving knowledge and good works.
      Can a man thus employed find himself discontented or dishonoured
      for want of admittance to have a pragmatical voice at sessions and
      jail deliveries? or because he may not as a judge sit out the
      wrangling noise of litigious courts to shrive the purses of
      unconfessing and unmortified sinners, and not their souls, or be
      discouraged though men call him not lord, whereas the due
      performance of his office would gain him, even from lords and
      princes, the voluntary title of father?"

When it was said of Robespierre, cet homme ira bien loin, car il croit tout ce qu'il dit, it
was probably meant that he would attain the chief place in the State. It might have been said
of Milton in the literal sense. The idealist was about to apply his principles of church polity
to family life, to the horror of many nominal allies. His treatise on Divorce was the next
of his publications in chronological order, but is so entwined with his domestic life that
it will be best to postpone it until we again take up the thread of his personal history, and
to pass on for the present to his next considerable writings, his tracts on education and on
the freedom of the press.

Milton's tract on Education, like so many of his performances, was the fruit of an impulse
from without. "Though it be one of the greatest and noblest designs that can be thought on,
and for want of which this nation perishes, I had not at this time been induced but by your
earnest entreaties and serious conjurements." The efficient cause thus referred to existed
in the person of Samuel Hartlib, philanthropist and polypragmatist, precursor of the Franklins
and Rumfords of the succeeding century. The son of a Polish exile of German extraction, Hartlib
had settled in England about 1627. He found the country behindhand both economically and socially,
and with benign fervour applied himself to its regeneration. Agriculture was his principal
hobby, and he effected much towards its improvement in England, rather however by editing the
unpublished treatises of Weston and Child than by any direct contributions of his own. Next
among the undertakings to which he devoted himself were two of no less moment than the union
of British and foreign Protestants, and the reform of English education by the introduction
of the methods of Comenius. This Moravian pastor, the Pestalozzi of his age, had first of men
grasped the idea that the ordinary school methods were better adapted to instil a knowledge
of words than a knowledge of things. He was, in a word, the inventor of object lessons. He
also strove to organize education as a connected whole from the infant school to the last touch
of polish from foreign travel. Milton alludes almost scornfully to Comenius in his preface
to Hartlib, but his tract is nevertheless imbued with the Moravian's principles. His aim, like
Comenius's, is to provide for the instruction of all, "before the years of puberty, in all
things belonging to the present and future life." His view is as strictly utilitarian as Comenius's.
"Language is but the instrument conveying to us things useful to be known." Of the study of
language as intellectual discipline he says nothing, and his whole course of instruction is
governed by the desire of imparting useful knowledge. Whatever we may think of the system of
teaching which in our day allows a youth to leave school disgracefully ignorant of physical
and political geography, of history and foreign languages, it cannot be denied that Milton
goes into the opposite extreme, and would overload the young mind with more information than
it could possibly digest. His scheme is further vitiated by a fault which we should not have
looked for in him, indiscriminate reverence for the classical writers, extending to subjects
in which they were but children compared with the moderns. It moves something more than a smile
to find ingenuous youth referred to Pliny and Solinus for instruction in physical science;
and one wonders what the agricultural Hartlib thought of the proposed course of "Cato, Varro,
and Columella," whose precepts are adapted for the climate of Italy. Another error, obvious
to any dunce, was concealed from Milton by his own intellectual greatness. He legislates for
a college of Miltons. He never suspects that the course he is prescribing would be beyond the
abilities of nine hundred and ninety-nine scholars in a thousand, and that the thousandth would
die of it. If a difficulty occurs he contemptuously puts it aside. He has not provided for
Italian, but can it not "be easily learned at any odd hour"? "Ere this time the Hebrew tongue"
(of which we have not hitherto heard a syllable), "might have been gained, whereto it would
be no impossibility to add the Chaldee and the Syrian dialect." This sublime confidence in
the resources of the human intellect is grand, but it marks out Milton as an idealist, whose
mission it was rather to animate mankind by the greatness of his thoughts than to devise practical
schemes for human improvement. As an ode or poem on education, Milton's tract, doubtless, has
delivered many a teacher and scholar from bondage to routine; and no man's aims are so high
or his thoughts so generous that he might not be further profited and stimulated by reading
it. As a practical treatise it is only valuable for its emphatic denunciation of the folly
of teasing youth, whose element is the concrete, with grammatical abstractions, and the advice
to proceed to translation as soon as possible, and to keep it up steadily throughout the whole
course. Neglect of this precept is the principal reason why so many youths not wanting in capacity,
and assiduously taught, leave school with hardly any knowledge of languages. Milton's scheme
is also remarkable for its bold dealing with day schools and universities, which it would have
entirely superseded.

The next publication of Milton's is another instance of the dependence of his intellectual
workings upon the course of events outside him. We owe the "Areopagitica," not to the lonely
overflowings of his soul, or even to the disinterested observation of public affairs, but to
the real jeopardy he had incurred by his neglect to get his books licensed. The Long Parliament
had found itself, in 1643, with respect to the Press, very much in the position of Lord Canning's
government in India at the time of the Mutiny. Twelve London ministers, therefore, were nominated
to license books in divinity, which was equivalent to enacting that nothing contrary to Presbyterian
orthodoxy should be published in England.[2] Other departments, not forgetting poetry and fiction,
were similarly provided for. The ordinance is dated June 14, 1643. Milton had always contemned
the licensing regulations previously existing, and within a month his brain was busy with speculations
which no reverend licenser could have been expected to confirm with an imprimatur. About August
1st the "Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce" appeared, with no recognition of or from a licenser;
and the second edition, published in the following February, equally infringed the Parliamentary
ordinance. No notice appears to have been taken until the election of a new Master of the Stationers'
Company, about the middle of 1644. The Company had an interest in the enforcement of the ordinance,
which was aimed at piracy as well as sedition and heresy; and whether for this reason, or at
the instigation of Milton's adversaries, they (August 24th) petitioned Parliament to call him
to account. The matter was referred to a committee, but more urgent business thrust it out
of sight. Milton, nevertheless, had received his marching orders, and on November 24, 1644,
appeared "Areopagitica; a Speech for the Liberty of Unlicensed Printing": itself unlicensed.

The "Areopagitica" is by far the best known of Milton's prose writings, being the only one
whose topic is not obsolete. It is also composed with more care and art than the others. Elsewhere
he seeks to overwhelm, but here to persuade. He could without insincerity profess veneration
for the Lords and Commons to whom his discourse is addressed, and he spares no pains to give
them a favourable opinion both of his dutifulness and his reasonableness. More than anywhere
else he affects the character of a practical man, pressing home arguments addressed to the
understanding rather than to the pure reason. He points out sensibly, and for him calmly, that
the censorship is a Papal invention, contrary to the precedents of antiquity; that while it
cannot prevent the circulation of bad books, it is a grievous hindrance to good ones; that
it destroys the sense of independence and responsibility essential to a manly and fruitful
literature. We hear less than might have been expected about first principles, of the sacredness
of conscience, of the obligation on every man to manifest the truth as it is within him. He
does not dispute that the magistrate may suppress opinions esteemed dangerous to society after
they have been published; what he maintains is that publication must not be prevented by a
board of licensers. He strikes at the censor, not at the Attorney-General. This judicious caution
cramped Milton's eloquence; for while the "Areopagitica" is the best example he has given us
of his ability as an advocate, the diction is less magnificent than usual. Yet nothing penned
by him in prose is better known than the passage beginning, "Methinks I see in my mind a noble
and puissant nation;" and none of his writings contain so many seminal sentences, pithy embodiments
of vital truths. "Revolutions of ages do not oft recover the loss of a rejected truth." "A
dram of well-doing should be preferred before many times as much the forcible hindrance of
evil doing. For God more esteems the growth and completing of one virtuous person than the
restraint of ten vicious." "Opinion in good men is but knowledge in the making." "A man maybe
a heretic in the truth." Towards the end the argument takes a wider sweep, and Milton, again
the poet and the seer, hails with exultation the approach of the time he thinks he discerns
when all the Lord's people shall be prophets. He clearly indicates that he regards the licensing
ordinance as not really the offspring of an honest though mistaken concern for religion and
morality, but as a device of Presbyterianism to restrain this outpouring of the spirit and
silence Independents as well as Royalists. Presbyterianism had indeed been weighed in the balance
and found wanting, and Milton's pamphlet was the handwriting on the wall. This is a startling
passage. We should have pronounced hitherto that Milton's one hopeless, congenital, irremediable
want, alike in literature and in life, was humour. And now, surely as ever Saul was among the
prophets, behold Milton among the wits.

CHAPTER IV.

Ranging with Milton's spirit over the "fresh woods and pastures new," foreshadowed in the closing
verse of "Lycidas," we have left his mortal part in its suburban dwelling in Aldersgate Street,
which he seems to have first inhabited shortly before the convocation of the Long Parliament
in November, 1640. His visible occupations are study and the instruction of his nephews; by
and by he becomes involved in the revolutionary tempest that rages around; and, while living
like a pedagogue, is writing like a prophet.

There is eloquent testimony of his interest in public affairs in his subscription of four pounds,
a large sum in those days, for the relief of the homeless Protestants of Ulster. The progress
of events must have filled him with exultation, and when at length civil war broke out in September,
1642, Parliament had no more zealous champion. His zeal, however, did not carry him into the
ranks, for which some biographers blame him. But if he thought that he could serve his cause
better with a pamphlet than with a musket, surely he had good reason for what he thought.

If this strain seems deficient in the fierceness befitting a besieged patriot, let it be remembered
that Milton's doors were literally defenceless, being outside the rampart of the City.

We now approach the most curious episode of Milton's life, and the most irreconcilable with
the conventional opinion of him. Up to this time this heroic existence must have seemed dull
to many, for it has been a life without love. He has indeed, in his beautiful Sonnet to the
Nightingale (about 1632), professed himself a follower of Love: but if so, he has hitherto
followed at a most respectful distance.

It is highly probable that the very reaction from party strife turned the young man's fancies
to thoughts of love in the spring of 1643. Escorted, we must fear, by a chorus of mocking cuckoos,
Milton, about May 21st, rode into the country on a mysterious errand. It is a ghoulish and
ogreish idea, but it really seems as if the elder Milton quartered his progeny upon his debtors,
as the ichneumon fly quarters hers upon caterpillars. Milton had, at all events for the last
sixteen years, been regularly drawing interest from an Oxfordshire squire, Richard Powell of
Forest Hill, who owed him £500, which must have been originally advanced by the elder Milton.
The Civil War had no doubt interfered with Mr. Powell's ability to pay interest, but, on the
other hand, must have equally impaired Milton's ability to exact it; for the Powells were Cavaliers,
and the Parliament's writ would run but lamely in loyal Oxfordshire. Whether Milton went down
on this eventful Whitsuntide in the capacity of a creditor cannot now be known; and a like
uncertainty envelops the precise manner of the metamorphosis of Mary Powell into Mary Milton.
The maiden of seventeen may have charmed him by her contrast to the damsels of the metropolis,
she may have shielded him from some peril, such as might easily beset him within five miles
of the Royalist headquarters, she may have won his heart while pleading for her harassed father;
he may have fancied hers a mind he could mould to perfect symmetry and deck with every accomplishment,
as the Gods fashioned and decorated Pandora. Milton also seems to imply that his, or his bride's,
better judgment was partly overcome by "the persuasion of friends, that acquaintance, as it
increases, will amend all." It is possible, too, that he had long been intimate with his debtor's
family, and that Mary had previously made an impression upon him. If not, his was the most
preposterously precipitate of poets' marriages; for a month after leaving home he presented
a mistress to his astounded nephews and housekeeper. The newly-wedded pair were accompanied
or quickly followed by a bevy of the bride's friends and relatives, who danced and sang and
feasted for a week in the quiet Puritan house, then departed--and after a few weeks Milton
finds himself moved to compose his tract on the "Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce."

How many weeks? The story seemed a straightforward one until Professor Masson remarked what
had before escaped attention. According to Phillips, an inmate of the house at the period--"By
that time she had for a month, or thereabouts, led a philosophical life (after having been
used to a great house, and much company and joviality), her friends, possibly incited by her
own desire, made earnest suit by letter to have her company the remaining part of the summer,
which was granted, on condition of her return at the time appointed, Michaelmas or thereabout.
He thought it would be dishonourable ever to receive her again after such a repulse, and accordingly
wrote two treatises," &c. Here we are distinctly assured that Mary Milton's desertion of her
husband, about Michaelmas, was the occasion of his treatise on divorce. It follows that Milton's
tract must have been written after Michaelmas. But the copy in the British Museum belonged
to the bookseller Thomason, who always inscribed the date of publication on every tract in
his collection, when it was known to him, and his date, as Professor Masson discovered, is
August 1. Must we believe that Phillips's account is a misrepresentation? Must we, in Pattison's
words, "suppose that Milton was occupying himself with a vehement and impassioned argument
in favour of divorce for incompatibility of temper, during the honeymoon"? It would certainly
seem so, and if Milton is to be vindicated it can only be by attention to traits in his character,
invisible on its surface, but plainly discoverable in his actions.

The grandeur of Milton's poetry, and the dignity and austerity of his private life, naturally
incline us to regard him as a man of iron will, living by rule and reason, and exempt from
the sway of passionate impulse. The incident of his marriage, and not this incident alone,
refutes this conception of his character; his nature was as lyrical and mobile as a poet's
should be. We have seen "Comus" and "Lycidas" arise at another's bidding, we shall see a casual
remark beget "Paradise Regained." He never attempts to utter his deepest religious convictions
until caught by the contagious enthusiasm of a revolution. If any incident in his life could
ever have compelled him to speak or die it must have been the humiliating issue of his matrimonial
adventure. To be cast off after a month's trial like an unsatisfactory servant, to forfeit
the hope of sympathy and companionship which had allured him into the married state, to forfeit
it, unless the law could be altered, for ever! The feelings of any sensitive man must find
some sort of expression in such an emergency. At another period what Milton learned in suffering
would no doubt have been taught in song. But pamphlets were then the order of the day, and
Milton's "Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce," in its first edition, is as much the outpouring
of an overburdened heart as any poem could have been. It bears every mark of a hasty composition,
such as may well have been written and printed within the last days of July, following Mary
Milton's departure. It is short. It deals with the most obvious aspects of the question. It
is meagre in references and citations; two authors only are somewhat vaguely alleged, Grotius
and Beza. It does not contain the least allusion to his domestic circumstances, nor anything
unless the thesis itself, that could hinder his wife's return. Everything betokens that it
was composed in the bitterness of wounded feeling upon the incompatibility becoming manifest;
but that he had not yet arrived at the point of demanding the application of his general principle
to his own special case. That point would be reached when Mary Milton deliberately refused
to return, and the chronology of the greatly enlarged second edition, published in the following
February, entirely confirms Phillips's account. In one point only he must be wrong. Mary Milton's
return to her father's house cannot have been a voluntary concession on Milton's part, but
must have been wrung from him after bitter contentions. Could we look into the household during
those weeks of wretchedness, we should probably find Milton exceedingly deficient in consideration
for the inexperienced girl of half his age, brought from a gay circle of friends and kindred
to a grave, studious house. But it could not well have been otherwise. Milton was constitutionally
unfit "to soothe and fondle," and his theories cannot have contributed to correct his practice.
His "He for God only, she for God in him," condenses every fallacy about woman's true relation
to her husband and her Maker. In his Tractate on Education there is not a word on the education
of girls, and yet he wanted an intellectual female companion. Where should the woman be found
at once submissive enough and learned enough to meet such inconsistent exigencies? It might
have been said to him as afterwards to Byron: "You talk like a Rosicrucian, who will love nothing
but a sylph, who does not believe in the existence of a sylph, and who yet quarrels with the
whole universe for not containing a sylph."

If Milton's first tract on divorce had not been a mere impromptu, extorted by the misery of
finding "an image of earth and phlegm" in her "with whom he looked to be the co-partner of
a sweet and gladsome society," he would certainly have rendered his argument more cogent and
elaborate. The tract, in its inspired portions, is a fine impassioned poem, fitter for the
Parliament of Love than the Parliament at Westminster. The second edition is far more satisfactory
as regards that class of arguments which alone were likely to impress the men of his generation,
those derived from the authority of the Scriptures and of divines. In one of his principal
points all Protestants and philosophers will confess him to be right, his reference of the
matter to Scripture and reason, and repudiation of the mediæval canon law. It is not here,
nevertheless, that Milton is most at home. The strength of his position is his lofty idealism,
his magnificent conception of the institution he discusses, and his disdain for whatever degrades
it to conventionality or mere expediency. "His ideal of true and perfect marriage," says Mr.
Ernest Myers, "appeared to him so sacred that he could not admit that considerations of expediency
might justify the law in maintaining sacred any meaner kind, or at least any kind in which
the vital element of spiritual harmony was not." Here he is impregnable and above criticism,
but his handling of the more sublunary departments of the subject must be unsatisfactory to
legislators, who have usually deemed his sublime idealism fitter for the societies of the blest
than for the imperfect communities of mankind. When his "doctrine and discipline" shall have
been sanctioned by lawgivers, we may be sure that the world is already much better, or much worse.

As the girl-wife vanishes from Milton's household her place is taken by the venerable figure
of his father. The aged man had removed with his son Christopher to Reading, probably before
August, 1641, when the birth of a child of his name--Christopher's offspring as it should seem--appears
in the Reading register. Christopher was to exemplify the law of reversion to a primitive type.
Though not yet a Roman Catholic like his grandfather, he had retrograded into Royalism, without
becoming on that account estranged from his elder brother. The surrender of Reading to the
Parliamentary forces in April, 1643, involved his "dissettlement," and the migration of his
father to the house of John, with whom he was moreover better in accord in religion and politics.
Little external change resulted, "the old gentleman," says Phillips, "being wholly retired
to his rest and devotion, with the least trouble imaginable." About the same time the household
received other additions in the shape of pupils, admitted, Phillips is careful to assure us,
by way of favour, as M. Jourdain selected stuffs for his friends. Milton's pamphlet was perhaps
not yet published, or not generally known to be his, or his friends were indifferent to public
sentiment. We have already seen that he had incurred danger of prosecution from the Stationers'
Company, and in July, 1644, he was denounced by name from the pulpit by a divine of much note,
Herbert Palmer, author of a book long attributed to Bacon. But, if criticised, he was read.
By 1645 his Divorce tract was in the third edition, and he had added three more pamphlets--one
to prove that the revered Martin Bucer had agreed with him; two, the "Tetrachordon" and "Colasterion,"
directed against his principal opponents, Palmer, Featley, Caryl, Prynne, and an anonymous
pamphleteer, who seems to have been a somewhat contemptible person, a serving-man turned attorney,
but whose production contains some not unwelcome hints on the personal aspects of Milton's
controversy. Milton's later tracts are not specially interesting, except for the reiteration
of his fine and bold idealism on the institution of marriage, qualified only by his no less
strenuous insistance on the subjection of woman.

Milton's seminary, meanwhile, was prospering to such a degree as to compel him to take a more
commodious house. Was it necessity or enthusiasm that kept him to a task so little compatible
with the repose he must have needed even for such intellectual exercise as the "Areopagitica,"
much more for the high designs he had not ceased to meditate in verse? Enthusiasm, one would
certainly say, only that it is impossible to tell to what extent his father's income, chiefly
derived from money out at interest, may have been impaired by the confusion of the times. Whether
he had done rightly or wrongly in taking the duties of a preceptor upon himself, his nephew's
account attests the self-sacrificing zeal with which he discharged them: we groan as we read
of hours which should have been devoted to lonely musing or noble composition passed in "increasing
as it were by proxy" his knowledge of "Frontinus his Stratagems, with the two egregious poets
Lucretius and Manilius." The excerpter of Amesius and Wollebius, as we have so often insisted,
needed great stimulus for great achievements. Such stimulus would probably have come superabundantly
if he could at this time have had his way, for the most moral of men was bent on assuming a
direct antagonism to conventional morality. He had maintained that marriage ought to be dissolved
for mere incompatibility; his case must have seemed much stronger now that incompatibility
had produced desertion. He was not the man to shrink from acting on his opinion when the fit
season seemed to him to have arrived; and in the summer of 1645 he was openly paying his addresses
to "a very handsome and witty gentlewoman, one of Dr. Davis's daughters." Considering the consequences
to the female partner to the contract, it is clear that Miss Davis could not be expected to
entertain Milton's proposals unless her affection for him was very strong indeed. It is equally
clear that he cannot be acquitted of selfishness in urging his suit unless he was quite sure
of this, and his own heart also was deeply interested. An event was about to occur which seems
to prove that these conditions were wanting.

Nearly two years have passed since we have heard of Mary Milton, who has been living with her
parents in Oxfordshire. Her position as a nominal wife must have been most uncomfortable, but
there is no indication of any effort on her part to alter it, until the Civil War was virtually
terminated by the Battle of Naseby, June, 1645. Obstinate malignants had then nothing to expect
but fine and forfeiture, and their son-in-law's Puritanism may have presented itself to the
Powells in the light of a merciful dispensation. Rumours of Milton's suit to Miss Davis may
also have reached them; and they would know that an illegal tie would be as fatal to all hopes
of reconciliation as a legal one. So, one day in July or August, 1645, Milton, paying his usual
call on a kinsman named Blackborough,[3] not otherwise mentioned in his life, who lived in
St. Martin's-le-Grand Lane, where the General Post Office now stands, "was surprised to see
one whom he thought to have never seen more, making submission and begging pardon on her knees
before him." There are two similar scenes in his writings, of which this may have formed the
groundwork, Dalila's visit to her betrayed husband in "Samson Agonistes," and Eve's repentance
in the tenth book of "Paradise Lost." Samson replies, "Out, out, hyæna!" Eve's "lowly plight"

                              "in Adam wrought
    Commiseration;...
    As one disarmed, his anger all he lost,
    And thus with peaceful words upraised her soon." With a man of his magnanimous temper, conscious no doubt that
he had himself been far from blameless, such a result was to be
expected. But it was certainly well that he had made no deeper
impression than he seems to have done upon "the handsome and witty
gentlewoman." One would like to know whether she and Mistress Milton
ever met, and what they said to and thought of each other. For the
present, Mary Milton dwelt with Christopher's mother-in-law, and about
September joined her husband in the more commodious house in the
Barbican whither he was migrating at the time of the reconciliation. It
stood till 1864, when it was destroyed by a railway company.

Soon after removing to the Barbican, Milton set his Muse's house in order, by publishing such
poems, English and Latin, as he deemed worthy of presentation. It is a remarkable proof both
of his habitual cunctativeness and his dependence on the suggestions of others, that he should
so long have allowed such pieces to remain uncollected, and should only have collected them
at all at the solicitation of the publisher, Humphrey Moseley. The transaction is most honourable
to the latter. The volume was published on Jan. 2, 1646. It is divided into two parts, with
separate title-pages, the first containing the English poems, the second the Latin. They were
probably sold separately. The frontispiece, engraved by Marshall, is unfortunately a sour and
silly countenance, passing as Milton's, but against which he protests in four lines of Greek
appended, which the worthy Marshall seems to have engraved without understanding them. The
British Museum copy in the King's Library contains an additional MS. poem of considerable merit,
in a hand which some have thought like Milton's, but few now believe it to have been either
written or transcribed by him. It is dated 1647, but for which circumstance one might indulge
the fancy that the copy had been a gift from him to some Italian friend, for the binding is
Italian, and the book must have seen Italy.

Milton was now to learn what he afterwards taught, that "they also serve who only stand and
wait." He had challenged obloquy in vindication of what he deemed right: the cross actually
laid upon him was to fill his house with inimical and uncongenial dependants on his bounty
and protection. The overthrow of the Royalist cause was utterly ruinous to the Powells. All
went to wreck on the surrender of Oxford in June, 1646. The family estate was only saved from
sequestration by a friendly neighbour taking possession of it under cover of his rights as
creditor; the family mansion was occupied by the Parliamentarians, and the household stuff
sold to the harpies that followed in their train; the "malignant's" timber went to rebuild
the good town of Banbury. It was impossible for the Powells to remain in Oxfordshire, and Milton
opened his doors to them as freely as though there had never been any estrangement. Father,
mother, several sons and daughters came to dwell in a house already full of pupils, with what
inconvenience from want of room and disquiet from clashing opinions may be conjectured. Milton's
readiness to receive the mother, deemed the chief instigator of her daughter's "frowardness,"
may have been partly due to the situation of the latter, who gave him a daughter on July 29,
1646. In January, 1647, Mr. Powell died, leaving his affairs in dire confusion. Two months
afterwards Milton's father followed him at the age of eighty-four, partly cognisant, we will
hope, of the gift he had bestowed on his country in his son. It was probably owing to the consequent
improvement in Milton's circumstances that he about this time gave up his pupils, except his
nephews, and removed to a smaller house in High Holborn, not since identified; the Powells
also removing to another dwelling. "No one," he says of himself at this period, "ever saw me
going about, no one ever saw me asking anything among my friends, or stationed at the doors
of the Court with a petitioner's face. I kept myself almost entirely at home, managing on my
own resources, though in this civil tumult they were often in great part kept from me, and
contriving, though burdened with taxes in the main rather oppressive, to lead my frugal life."
The traces of his literary activity at this time are few--preparations for a history of England,
published long afterwards, an ode, a sonnet, correspondence with Dati, some not very successful
versions of the Psalms. He seems to have been partly engaged in preparing the treatise on Christian
Doctrine, which was fortunately reserved for a serener day. In undertaking it at this period
he was missing a great opportunity. He might have been the apostle of toleration in England,
as Roger Williams had been in America. The moment was most favourable. Presbyterianism had
got itself established, but could not pretend to represent the majority of the nation. It had
been branded by Milton himself in the memorable line: "New Presbyter is but old Priest writ
large." The Independents were for toleration, the Episcopalians had been for the time humbled
by adversity, the best minds in the nation, including Cromwell, were Seekers or Latitude men,
or sceptics. Here was invitation enough for a work as much greater than the "Areopagitica"
as the principle of freedom of thought is greater than the most august particular application
of it. Milton might have added the better half of Locke's fame to his own, and compelled the
French philosophers to sit at the feet of a Bible-loving Englishman. But unfortunately no external
impulse stirred him to action, as in the case of the "Areopagitica." Presbyterians growled
at him occasionally; they did not fine or imprison him, or put him out of the synagogue. Thus
his pen slumbered, and we are in danger of forgetting that he was, in the ordinary sense of
that much-abused term, no Puritan, but a most free and independent thinker, the vast sweep
of whose thought happened to coincide for a while with the narrow orbit of so-called Puritanism.

Impulse to work of another sort was at hand. On January 30, 1649, Charles the First's head
rolled on the scaffold. On February 13th was published a pamphlet from Milton's hand, which
cannot have been begun before the King's trial, another proof of his feverish impetuosity when
possessed by an overmastering idea. The title propounds two theses with very different titles
to acceptance. That kings have no more immunity than others from the consequences of evil doing
is a proposition which seemed monstrous to many in Milton's day, but which will command general
assent in ours. But to lay it down that "any who has the power" may interpose to correct what
he chooses to consider the laches of the lawful magistrate is to hand over the administration
of the law to Judge Lynch--rather too high a price to pay for the satisfaction of bringing
even a bad king to the block. Milton's sneer at "vulgar and irrational men, contesting for
privileges, customs, forms, and that old entanglement of iniquity, their gibberish laws," is
equivalent to an admission that his party had put itself beyond the pale of the law. The only
defence would be to show that it had acted under great and overwhelming necessity; but this
he takes for granted, though knowing well that it was denied by more than half the nation.
His argument, therefore, is inconclusive, except that portion of it which modern opinion allows
to pass without argument. He seems indeed to admit in his "Defensio Secunda" that the tract
was written less to vindicate the King's execution than to saddle the protesting Presbyterians
with a share of the responsibility. The diction, though robust and spirited, is not his best,
and, on the whole, the most admirable feature in his pamphlet is his courage in writing it.
He was to speak yet again on this theme as the mouthpiece of the Commonwealth, thus earning
honour and reward; it was well to have shown first that he did not need this incentive to expose
himself to Royalist vengeance, but had prompting enough in the intensity of his private convictions.

He had flung himself into a perilous breach. "Eikon Basilike"--most timely of manifestoes--had
been published only four days before the appearance of "The Tenure of Kings and Magistrates."
Between its literary seduction and the horror generally excited by the King's execution, the
tide of public opinion was turning fast. Milton no doubt felt that no claim upon him could
be equal to that which the State had a right to prefer. He accepted the office of "Secretary
for Foreign Tongues" to the Committee of Foreign Affairs, a delegation from the Council of
State of forty-one members, by which the country was at that time governed. Vane, Whitelocke,
and Marten were among the members of the committee. The specified duties of the post were the
preparation and translation of despatches from and to foreign governments. These were always
in Latin,--the Council, says that sturdy Briton, Edward Phillips, "scorning to carry on their
affairs in the wheedling, lisping jargon of the cringing French." But it must have been understood
that Milton's pen would also be at the service of the Government outside the narrow range of
official correspondence. The salary was handsome for the time--£288, equivalent to about £900
of our money. It was an honourable post, on the manner of whose discharge the credit of England
abroad somewhat depended; the foreign chanceries were full of accomplished Latinists, and when
Blake's cannon was not to be the mouthpiece, the Commonwealth's message needed a silver trumpet.
It was also as likely as any employment to make a scholar a statesman. If in some respects
it opposed new obstacles to the fulfilment of Milton's aspirations as a poet, he might still
feel that it would help him to the experience which he had declared to be essential: "He who
would not be frustrate of his hope to write well hereafter in laudable things, ought himself
to be a true poem, that is, a composition and pattern of the best and honourablest things,
not presuming to sing high praises of heroic men or famous cities, unless he have within himself
the experience and the practice of all that which is praiseworthy." Up to this time Milton's
experience of public affairs had been slight; he does not seem to have enjoyed the intimate
acquaintance of any man then active in the making of history. In our day he would probably
have entered Parliament, but that was impossible under a dispensation which allowed a Parliament
to sit till a Protector turned it out of doors. He was, therefore, only acting upon his own
theory, and he seems to us to have been acting wisely as well as courageously, when he consented
to become a humble but necessary wheel of the machinery of administration, the Orpheus among
the Argonauts of the Commonwealth.

CHAPTER V.

Milton was appointed Secretary for Foreign Tongues on March 15, 1649. He removed from High
Holborn to Spring Gardens to be near the scene of his labours, and was soon afterwards provided
with an official residence in Whitehall Palace, a huge intricacy of passages and chambers,
of which but a fragment now remains. His first performance was in some measure a false start;
for the epistle offering amity to the Senate of Hamburg, clothed in his best Latin, was so
unamiably regarded by that body that the English envoy never formally delivered it. An epistle
to the Dutch on the murder of the Commonwealth's ambassador, Dorislaus, by refugee Cavaliers,
had a better reception; and Milton was soon engaged in drafting, not merely translating, a
State paper designed for the press--observations on the peace concluded by Ormond, the Royalist
commander in Ireland, with the confederated Catholics in that country, and on the protest against
the execution of Charles I. volunteered by the Presbytery of Belfast. The commentary was published
in May, along with the documents. It is a spirited manifesto, cogent in enforcing the necessity
of the campaign about to be undertaken by Cromwell. Ireland had at the moment exactly as many
factions as provinces; and never, perhaps, since the days of Strongbow had been in a state
of such utter confusion. Employed in work like this, Milton did not cease to be "an eagle towering
in his pride of place," but he may seem to have degenerated into the "mousing owl" when he
pounced upon newswriters and ferreted unlicensed pamphlets for sedition. True, there was nothing
in this occupation formally inconsistent with anything he had written in the "Areopagitica";
yet one wishes that the Council of State had provided otherwise for this particular department
of the public service. Nothing but a sense of duty can have reconciled him to a task so invidious;
and there is some evidence of what might well have been believed without evidence--that he
mitigated the severity of the censorship as far as in him lay. He was not to want for better
occupation, for the Council of State was about to devolve upon him the charge of answering
the great Royalist manifesto, "Eikon Basilike."

The controversy respecting the authorship of the "Eikon Basilike" is a remarkable instance
of the degree in which literary judgment may be biassed by political prepossession. In the
absence of other testimony one might almost stamp a writer as Royalist or Parliamentarian according
as his verdict inclined to Charles I. or Bishop Gauden. In fact, it is no easy matter to balance
the respective claims of two entirely different kinds of testimony. The external evidence of
Charles's authorship is worth nothing. It is almost confined to the assertions, forty years
after the publication, of a few aged Cavaliers, who were all morally certain that Charles wrote
the book, and to whom a fiction supplying the accidental lack of external testimony would have
seemed laudable and pious. The only wonder is that such legends are not far more numerous.
On the other hand, the internal evidence seems at first sight to make for the king. The style
is not dissimilar to that of the reputed royal author; the sentiments are such as would have
well become him; the assumed character is supported throughout with consistency; and there
are none of the slips which a fabricator might have been thought hardly able to avoid. The
supposed personator of the King was unquestionably an unprincipled time-server. Is it not an
axiom that a worthy book can only proceed from a worthy mind?

Against such considerations we have to set the stubborn facts that Bishop Gauden did actually
claim the authorship that he preferred his claim to the very persons who had the strongest
interest in exploding it; that he invoked the testimony of those who must have known the truth,
and could most easily have crushed the lie; that he convinced not only Clarendon, but Charles's
own children, and received a substantial reward. In the face of these undeniable facts, the
numerous circumstances used with skill and ingenuity by Dr. Wordsworth to invalidate his claim,
are of little weight. The stronger the apparent objections, the more certain that the proofs
in Gauden's hands must have been overwhelming, and the greater the presumption that he was
merely urging what had always been known to several persons about the late king. When, with
this conviction, we recur to the "Eikon," and examine it in connection with Gauden's acknowledged
writings, the internal testimony against him no longer seems so absolutely conclusive. Gauden's
style is by no means so bad as Hume represents it. Many remarkable parallels between it and
the diction of the "Eikon" have been pointed out by Todd, and the most searching modern investigator,
Doble. We may also discover one marked intellectual resemblance. Nothing is more characteristic
in the "Eikon" than its indirectness. The writer is full of qualifications, limitations, allowances;
he fences and guards himself, and seems always on the point of taking back what he has said,
but never does; and veers and tacks, tacks and veers, until he has worked himself into port.
The like peculiarity is very observable in Gauden, especially in his once-popular "Companion
to the Altar." There is also a strong internal argument against Charles's authorship in the
preponderance of the theological element. That this should occupy an important place in the
writings of a martyr for the Church of England was certainly to be expected, but the theology
of the "Eikon" has an unmistakably professional flavour. Let any man read it with an unbiassed
mind, and then say whether he has been listening to a king or to a chaplain. "One of us," pithily
comments Archbishop Herring. "I write rather like a divine than a prince," the assumed author
acknowledges, or is made to acknowledge. When to these considerations is added that any scrap
of the "Eikon" in the King's handwriting would have been treasured as an inestimable relic,
and that no scrap was ever produced, there can be little question as to the verdict of criticism.
For all practical purposes, nevertheless, the "Eikon" in Milton's time was the King's book,
for everybody thought it so. Milton hints some vague suspicions, but refrains from impugning
it seriously, and indeed the defenders of its authenticity will be quite justified in asserting
that if Gauden had been dumb, Criticism would have been blind.

According to Selden's biographer, Cromwell was at first anxious that the "Eikon" should be
answered by that consummate jurist, and it was only on his declining the task that it came
into Milton's hands. That he also would have declined it but for his official position may
be inferred from his own words: "I take it on me as a work assigned, rather than by me chosen
or affected." His distaste may further be gauged by his tardiness; while "The Tenure of Kings
and Magistrates" had been written in little more than a week, his "Eikonoklastes," a reply
to a book published in February, did not appear until October 6th. His reluctance may be partly
explained by his feeling that "to descant on the misfortunes of a person fallen from so high
a dignity, who hath also paid his final debt both to nature and his faults, is neither of itself
a thing commendable, nor the intention of this discourse." The intention it may not have been,
but it was necessarily the performance. The scheme of the "Eikon" required the respondent to
take up the case article by article, a thing impossible to be done without abundant "descant"
of the kind which Milton deprecates. He is compelled to fight the adversary on the latter's
chosen ground, and the eloquence which might have swept all before it in a discussion of general
principles is frittered away in tiresome wrangling over a multitude of minutiæ. His vigorous
blows avail but little against the impalpable ideal with which he is contending; his arguments
might frequently convince a court of justice, but could do nothing to dispel the sorcery which
enthralled the popular imagination. Milton's "Eikonoklastes" had only three editions, including
a translation, within the year; the "Eikon Basilike" is said to have had fifty.

Milton's reputation as a political controversialist, however, was not to rest upon "Eikonoklastes,"
or to be determined by a merely English public. The Royalists had felt the necessity of appealing
to the general verdict of Europe, and had entrusted their cause to the most eminent classical
scholar of the age. To us the idea of commissioning a political manifesto from a philologist
seems eccentric; but erudition and the erudite were never so highly prized as in the seventeenth
century. Men's minds were still enchained by authority, and the precedents of Agis, or Brutus,
or Nehemiah, weighed like dicta of Solomon or Justinian. The man of Greek, or Latin, or Hebrew
learning was, therefore, a person of much greater consequence than he is now, and so much the
more if he enjoyed a high reputation and wrote good Latin. All these qualifications were combined
in Claudius Salmasius, a Frenchman, who had laid scholars under an eternal obligation by his
discovery of the Palatine MS. of the Anthology at Heidelberg, and who, having embraced Protestantism
from conviction, lived in splendid style at Leyden, where the mere light of his countenance--for
he did not teach--was valued by the University at three thousand livres a year. It seems marvellous
that a man should become dictator of the republic of letters by editing "Solinus" and "The
Augustan History," however ably; but an achievement like this, not a "Paradise Lost" or a "Werther"
was the sic itur ad astra of the time. On the strength of such Salmasius had pronounced ex
cathedra on a multiplicity of topics, from episcopacy to hair-powder, and there was no bishop
and no perfumer between the Black Sea and the Irish who would not rather have the scholar for
him than against him. A man, too, to be named with respect; no mere annotator, but a most sagacious
critic; peevish, it might be, but had he not seven grievous disorders at once? One who had
shown such independence and integrity in various transactions of his life, that we may be very
sure that Charles II.'s hundred Jacobuses, if ever given or even promised, were the very least
of the inducements that called him into the field against the executioners of Charles I.

Whether, however, the hundred Jacobuses were forthcoming or not, Salmasius's undertaking was
none the less a commission from Charles II., and the circumstance put him into a false position,
and increased the difficulty of his task. Human feeling is not easily reconciled to the execution
of a bad magistrate, unless he has also been a bad man. Charles I. was by no means a bad man,
only a mistaken one. He had been guilty of many usurpations and much perfidy: but he had honestly
believed his usurpations within the limits of his prerogative; and his breaches of faith were
committed against insurgents whom he regarded as seamen look upon pirates, or shepherds upon
wolves. Salmasius, however, pleading by commission from Charles's son, can urge no such mitigating
plea. He is compelled to maintain the inviolability even of wicked sovereigns, and spends two-thirds
of his treatise in supporting a proposition to state which is to refute it in the nineteenth
century. In the latter part he is on stronger ground. Charles had unquestionably been tried
and condemned by a tribunal destitute of legal authority, and executed contrary to the wish
and will of the great majority of his subjects. But this was a theme for an Englishman to handle.
Salmasius cannot think himself into it, nor had he sufficient imagination to be inspired by
Charles as Burke (who, nevertheless, has borrowed from him) was to be inspired by Marie Antoinette.

His book--entitled "Defensio Regia pro Carolo I."--appeared in October or November, 1649. On
January 8, 1650, it was ordered by the Council of State "that Mr. Milton do prepare something
in answer to the Book of Salmasius, and when he hath done it bring it to the Council." There
were many reasons why he should be entrusted with this commission, and only one why he should
not; but one which would have seemed conclusive to most men. His sight had long been failing.
He had already lost the use of one eye, and was warned that if he imposed this additional strain
upon his sight, that of the other would follow. He had seen the greatest astronomer of the
age condemned to inactivity and helplessness, and could measure his own by the misery of Galileo.
He calmly accepted his duty along with its penalty, without complaint or reluctance. If he
could have performed his task in the spirit with which he undertook it, he would have produced
a work more sublime than "Paradise Lost."

This, of course, was not possible. The efficiency of a controversialist in the seventeenth
century was almost estimated in the ratio of his scurrility, especially when he wrote Latin.
From this point of view Milton had got his opponent at a tremendous disadvantage. With the
best will in the world, Salmasius had come short in personal abuse, for, as the initiator of
the dispute, he had no personal antagonist. In denouncing the general herd of regicides and
parricides he had hurt nobody in particular, while concentrating all Milton's lightnings on
his own unlucky head. They seared and scathed a literary dictator whom jealous enemies had
long sighed to behold insulted and humiliated, while surprise equalled delight at seeing the
blow dealt from a quarter so utterly unexpected. There is no comparison between the invective
of Milton and of Salmasius; not so much from Milton's superiority as a controversialist, though
this is very evident, as because he writes under the inspiration of a true passion. His scorn
of the presumptuous intermeddler who has dared to libel the people of England is ten thousand
times more real than Salmasius's official indignation at the execution of Charles. His contempt
for Salmasius's pedantry is quite genuine; and he revels in ecstasies of savage glee when taunting
the apologist of tyranny with his own notorious subjection to a tyrannical wife. But the reviler
in Milton is too far ahead of the reasoner. He seems to set more store by his personalities
than by his principles. On the question of the legality of Charles's execution he has indeed
little argument to offer; and his views on the wider question of the general responsibility
of kings, sound and noble in themselves, suffer from the mass of irrelevant quotation with
which it was in that age necessary to prop them up. The great success of his reply ("Pro Populo
Anglicano Defensio") arose mainly from the general satisfaction that Salmasius should at length
have met with his match. The book, published in or about March, 1651, instantly won over European
public opinion, so far as the question was a literary one. Every distinguished foreigner then
resident in London, Milton says, either called upon him to congratulate him, or took the opportunity
of a casual meeting. By May, says Heinsius, five editions were printed or printing in Holland,
and two translations. "I had expected nothing of such quality from the Englishman," writes
Vossius. The Diet of Ratisbon ordered "that all the books of Miltonius should be searched for
and confiscated." Parisian magistrates burned it on their own responsibility. Salmasius himself
was then at Stockholm, where Queen Christina, who did not, like Catherine II., recognize the
necessity of "standing by her order," could not help letting him see that she regarded Milton
as the victor. Vexation, some thought, contributed as much as climate to determine his return
to Holland. He died in September, 1653, at Spa, as, remote from books, but making his memory
his library, he was penning his answer. This unfinished production, edited by his son, appeared
after the Restoration, when the very embers of the controversy had grown cold, and the palm
of literary victory had been irrevocably adjudged to Milton.

Milton could hear the plaudits, he could not see the wreaths. The total loss of his sight may
be dated from March, 1652, a year after the publication of his reply. It was then necessary
to provide him with an assistant--that no change should have been made in his position or salary
shows either the value attached to his services or the feeling that special consideration was
due to one who had voluntarily given his eyes for his country. "The choice lay before me,"
he writes, "between dereliction of a supreme duty and loss of eyesight; in such a case I could
not listen to the physician, not if Æsculapius himself had spoken from his sanctuary; I could
not but obey that inward monitor, I know not what, that spoke to me from heaven." In September,
1654, he described the symptoms of his infirmity to his friend, the Greek Philaras, who had
flattered him with hopes of cure from the dexterity of the French oculist Thevenot. He tells
him how his sight began to fail about ten years before; how in the morning he felt his eyes
shrinking from the effort to read anything; how the light of a candle appeared like a spectrum
of various colours; how, little by little, darkness crept over the left eye; and objects beheld
by the right seemed to waver to and fro; how this was accompanied by a kind of dizziness and
heaviness which weighed upon him throughout the afternoon. "Yet the darkness which is perpetually
before me seems always nearer to a whitish than to a blackish, and such that, when the eye
rolls itself, there is admitted, as through a small chink, a certain little trifle of light."
Elsewhere he says that his eyes are not disfigured:

                               "Clear
    To outward view of blemish or of spot."

These symptoms have been pronounced to resemble those of glaucoma. Milton himself, in "Paradise
Lost," hesitates between amaurosis ("drop serene") and cataract ("suffusion"). Nothing is said
of his having been recommended to use glasses or other precautionary contrivances. Cheselden
was not yet, and the oculist's art was probably not well understood. The sufferer himself,
while not repining or despairing of medical assistance, evidently has little hope from it.
"Whatever ray of hope may be for me from your famous physician, all the same, as in a case
quite incurable, I prepare and compose myself accordingly. My darkness hitherto, by the singular
kindness of God, amid rest and studies, and the voices and greetings of friends, has been much
easier to bear than that deathly one. But if, as is written, 'Man doth not live by bread alone,
but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God,' what should prevent me from resting
in the belief that eyesight lies not in eyes alone, but enough for all purposes in God's leading
and providence? Verily, while only He looks out for me, and provides for me, as He doth; teaching
me and leading me forth with His hand through my whole life, I shall willingly, since it hath
seemed good to Him, have given my eyes their long holiday. And to you I now bid farewell, with
a mind not less brave and steadfast than if I were Lynceus himself for keenness of sight."
Religion and philosophy, of which no brighter example was ever given, did not, in this sore
trial, disdain the support of a manly pride:--

                 "What supports me, dost thou ask?

Noble words, and Milton might well triumph in his victory in the field of intellectual combat.
But if his pamphlet could have put Charles the First's head on again, then, and then only,
could it have been of real political service to his party.

Milton's loss of sight was accompanied by domestic sorrow, though perhaps not felt with special
acuteness. Since the birth of his eldest daughter in 1646, his wife had given him three more
children--a daughter, born in October, 1648; a son, born in March, 1650, who died shortly afterwards;
and another daughter, born in May, 1652. The birth of this child may have been connected with
the death of the mother in the same or the following month. The household had apparently been
peaceful, but it is unlikely that Mary Milton can have been a companion to her husband, or
sympathized with such fraction of his mind as it was given her to understand. She must have
become considerably emancipated from the creeds of her girlhood if his later writings could
have been anything but detestable to her; and, on the whole, much as one pities her probably
wasted life, her disappearance from the scene, if tragic in her ignorance to the last of the
destiny that might have been hers, is not unaccompanied with a sense of relief. Great, nevertheless,
must have been the blind poet's embarrassment as the father of three little daughters. Much
evil, it is to be feared, had already been sown; and his temperament, his affliction, and his
circumstances alike nurtured the evil yet to come. He was then living in Petty France, Westminster,
having been obliged, either by the necessities of his health or of the public service, to give
up his apartments in Whitehall. The house stood till 1877, a forlorn tenement in these latter
years; far different, probably, when the neighbourhood was fashionable and the back windows
looked on St. James's Park. It is associated with other celebrated names, having been owned
by Bentham and occupied by Hazlitt.

The controversy with Salmasius had an epilogue, chiefly memorable in so far as it occasioned
Milton to indulge in autobiography, and to record his estimate of some of the heroes of the
Commonwealth. Among various replies to his "Defensio," not deserving of notice here, appeared
one of especial acrimony, "Regii Sanguinis Clamor ad Coelum," published about August, 1652.
It was a prodigy of scurrilous invective, bettering the bad example which Milton had set (but
which hundreds in that age had set him) of ridiculing Salmasius's foibles when he should have
been answering his arguments. Having been in Italy, he was taxed with Italian vices: he would
have been accused of cannibalism had his path lain towards the Caribee Islands. A fulsome dedication
to Salmasius tended to fix the suspicion of authorship upon Alexander Morus, a Frenchman of
Scotch extraction, Professor of Sacred History at Amsterdam, and pastor of the Walloon Church,
then an inmate of Salmasius's house, who actually had written the dedication and corrected
the proof. The real author, however, was Peter Du Moulin, ex-rector of Wheldrake, in Yorkshire.
The dedicatory ink was hardly dry ere Morus was involved in a desperate quarrel with Salmasius
through the latter's imperious wife, who accused Morus of having been over-attentive to her
English waiting-maid, whose patronymic is lost to history under the Latinized form of Bontia.
Failing to make Morus marry the damsel, she sought to deprive him of his ecclesiastical and
professorial dignities. The correspondence of Heinsius and Vossius shows what intense amusement
the affair occasioned to such among the scholars of the period as were unkindly affected towards
Salmasius. Morus was ultimately acquitted, but his position in Holland had become uncomfortable,
and he was glad to accept an invitation from the congregation at Charenton, celebrated for
its lunatics. Understanding, meanwhile, that Milton was preparing a reply, and being naturally
unwilling to brave invective in the cause of a book which he had not written, and of a patron
who had cast him off, he protested his innocence of the authorship, and sought to ward off
the coming storm by every means short of disclosing the writer. Milton, however, esteeming
his Latin of much more importance than Morus's character, and justly considering with Voltaire,
"que cet Habacuc était capable de tout," persisted in exhibiting himself as the blind Cyclop
dealing blows amiss. His reply appeared in May, 1654, and a rejoinder by Morus produced a final
retort in August, 1655. Both are full of personalities, including a spirited description of
the scratching of Morus's face by the injured Bontia. These may sink into oblivion, while we
may be grateful for the occasion which led Milton to express himself with such fortitude and
dignity on his affliction and its alleviations:--"Let the calumniators of God's judgments cease
to revile me, and to forge their superstitious dreams about me. Let them be assured that I
neither regret my lot nor am ashamed of it, that I remain unmoved and fixed in my opinion,
that I neither believe nor feel myself an object of God's anger, but actually experience and
acknowledge His fatherly mercy and kindness to me in all matters of greatest moment--especially
in that I am able, through His consolation and His strengthening of my spirit, to acquiesce
in His divine will, thinking oftener of what He has bestowed upon me than of what He has withheld:
finally, that I would not exchange the consciousness of what I have done with that of any deed
of theirs, however righteous, or part with my always pleasant and tranquil recollection of
the same." He adds that his friends cherish him, study his wants, favour him with their society
more assiduously even than before, and that the Commonwealth treats him with as much honour
as if, according to the customs of the Athenians of old, it had decreed him public support
for his life in the Prytaneum.

Milton's tract is also interesting for its pen-portraits of some of the worthies of the Commonwealth,
and its indications of his own views on the politics of his troubled times. Bradshaw is eulogized
with great elegance and equal truth for his manly courage and strict consistency. "Always equal
to himself, and like a consul re-elected for another year, so that you would say he not only
judged the King from his tribunal, but is judging him all his life." This was matter of notoriety:
one may hope that Milton had equal reason for his praise of Bradshaw's affability, munificence,
and placability. The comparison of Fairfax to the elder Scipio Africanus is more accurate than
is always or often the case with historical parallels, and by a dexterous turn, surprising
if we have forgotten the scholar in the controversialist, Fairfax's failure in statesmanship,
as Milton deemed it, is not only extenuated, but is made to usher in the more commanding personality
of Cromwell. Cæsar, says Johnson, had not more elegant flattery than Cromwell received from
Milton: nor Augustus, he might have added, encomiums more heartfelt and sincere. Milton was
one of the innumerable proofs that a man may be very much of a Republican without being anything
of a Liberal. He was as firm a believer in right divine as any Cavalier, save that in his view
such right was vested in the worthiest; that is, practically, the strongest. An admirable doctrine
for 1653,--how unfit for 1660 remained to be discovered by him. Under its influence he had
successively swallowed Pride's Purge, the execution of Charles I. by a self-constituted tribunal,
and Cromwell's expulsion of the scanty remnant of what had once seemed the more than Roman
senate of 1641. There is great reason to believe with Professor Masson that a tract vindicating
this violence was actually taken down from his lips. It is impossible to say that he was wrong.
Cromwell really was standing between England and anarchy. But Milton might have been expected
to manifest some compunction at the disappointment of his own brilliant hopes, and some alarm
at the condition of the vessel of the State reduced to her last plank. Authority actually had
come into the hands of the kingliest man in England, valiant and prudent, magnanimous and merciful.
But Cromwell's life was precarious, and what after Cromwell? Was the ancient constitution,
with its halo of antiquity, its settled methods, and its substantial safeguards, wisely exchanged
for one life, already the mark for a thousand bullets? Milton did not reflect, or he kept his
reflections to himself. The one point on which he does seem nervous is lest his hero should
call himself what he is. The name of Protector even is a stumbling-block, though one can get
over it. "You have, by assuming a title likest that of Father of your Country, allowed yourself
to be, one cannot say elevated, but rather brought down so many stages from your real sublimity,
and as it were forced into rank for the public convenience." But there must be no question
of a higher title:--

      "You have, in your far higher majesty, scorned the title of King.
      And surely with justice: for if in your present greatness you were
      to be taken with that name which you were able when a private man
      to reduce and bring to nothing, it would be almost as if, when by
      the help of the true God you had subdued some idolatrous nation,
      you were to worship the gods you had yourself overcome."

This warning, occurring in the midst of a magnificent panegyric, sufficiently vindicates Milton
against the charge of servile flattery. The frank advice which he gives Cromwell on questions
of policy is less conclusive evidence: for, except on the point of disestablishment, it was
such as Cromwell had already given himself. Professor Masson's excellent summary of it may
be further condensed thus--1. Reliance on a council of well-selected associates. 2. Absolute
voluntaryism in religion. 3. Legislation not to be meddlesome or over-puritanical. 4. University
and scholastic endowments to be made the rewards of approved merit. 5. Entire liberty of publication
at the risk of the publisher. 6. Constant inclination towards the generous view of things.
The advice of an enthusiastic idealist, Puritan by the accident of his times, but whose true
affinities were with Mill and Shelley and Rousseau.

An interesting question arises in connection with Milton's official duties: had he any real
influence on the counsels of Government? or was he a mere secretary? It would be pleasing to
conceive of him as Vizier to the only Englishman of the day whose greatness can be compared
with his; to imagine him playing Aristotle to Cromwell's Alexander. We have seen him freely
tendering Cromwell what might have been unpalatable advice, and learn from Du Moulin's lampoon
that he was accused of having behaved to the Protector with something of dictatorial rudeness.
But it seems impossible to point to any direct influence of his mind in the administration;
and his own department of Foreign Affairs was neither one which he was peculiarly qualified
to direct, nor one in which he was likely to differ from the ruling powers. "A spirited foreign
policy" was then the motto of all the leading men of England. Before Milton's loss of sight
his duties included attendance upon foreign envoys on State occasions, of which he must afterwards
have been to a considerable extent relieved. The collection of his official correspondence
published in 1676 is less remarkable for the quantity of work than the quality. The letters
are not very numerous, but are mostly written on occasions requiring a choice dignity of expression.
"The uniformly Miltonic style of the greater letters," says Professor Masson, "utterly precludes
the idea that Milton was only the translator of drafts furnished him." We seem to see him sitting
down to dictate, weighing out the fine gold of his Latin sentences to the stately accompaniment,
it may be, of his chamber-organ. War is declared against the Dutch; the Spanish ambassador
is reproved for his protraction of business; the Grand Duke of Tuscany is warmly thanked for
protecting English ships in the harbour of Leghorn; the French king is admonished to indemnify
English merchants for wrongful seizure; the Protestant Swiss cantons are encouraged to fight
for their religion; the King of Sweden is felicitated on the birth of a son and heir, and on
the Treaty of Roeskilde; the King of Portugal is pressed to use more diligence in investigating
the attempted assassination of the English minister; an ambassador is accredited to Russia;
Mazarin is congratulated on the capture of Dunkirk. Of all his letters, none can have stirred
Milton's personal feelings so deeply as the epistle of remonstrance to the Duke of Savoy on
the atrocious massacre of the Vaudois Protestants (1655); but the document is dignified and
measured in tone.

This is what Johnson calls "carving heads upon cherry-stones!"

Milton's calamity had, of course, required special assistance. He had first had Weckherlin
as coadjutor, then Philip Meadows, finally Andrew Marvell. His emoluments had been reduced,
in April, 1655, from £288 to £150 a year, but the diminished allowance was made perpetual instead
of annual, and seems to have been intended as a retiring pension. He nevertheless continued
to work, drawing salary at the rate of £200 a year, and his pen was never more active than
during the last months of Oliver's Protectorate. He continued to serve under Richard, writing
eleven letters between September, 1658, and February, 1659.

The principal domestic events in Milton's life, meanwhile, had been his marriage with Katherine,
daughter of an unidentified Captain Woodcock, in November, 1656; and the successive loss of
her and an infant daughter in February and March, 1658. It is probable that Milton literally
never saw his wife, whose worth and the consequent happiness of the fifteen months of their
too brief union, are sufficiently attested by his sonnet on the dream in which he fancied her
restored to him, with the striking conclusion, "Day brought back my night." Of his daughters
at the time, much may be conjectured, but nothing is known; his nephews, whose education had
cost him such anxious care, though not undutiful in their personal relations with him, were
sources of uneasiness from their own misadventures, and might have been even more so as sinister
omens of the ways in which the rising generation was to walk. The fruits of their bringing
up upon the egregious Lucretius and Manilius were apparently "Satyr against Hypocrites," i.e.,
Puritans; "Mysteries of Love and Eloquence;" "Sportive Wit or Muses' Merriment," which last
brought the Council down upon John Phillips as a propagator of immorality. In his nephews Milton
might have seen, though we may be sure he did not see, how fatally the austerity of the Commonwealth
had alienated those who would soon determine whether the Commonwealth should exist. Unconscious
of the "engine at the door," he could spend happy social hours with attached friends--Andrew
Marvell, his assistant in the secretaryship and poetical satellite; his old pupil Cyriack Skinner;
Lady Ranelagh; Oldenburg, the Bremen envoy, destined to fame as Secretary of the Royal Society
and the correspondent of Spinoza; and a choice band of "enthusiastic young men who accounted
it a privilege to read to him, or act as his amanuenses, or hear him talk."

CHAPTER VI.

   "Thought by thought in heaven-defying minds
    As flake by flake is piled, till some great truth
    Is loosened, and the nations echo round."

These lines, slightly altered from Shelley, are more applicable to the slow growth and sudden
apparition of "Paradise Lost" than to most of those births of genius whose maturity has required
a long gestation. In most such instances the work, however obstructed, has not seemed asleep.
In Milton's case the germ slumbered in the soil seventeen or eighteen years before the appearance
of a blade, save one of the minutest. After two or three years he ceased, so far as external
indications evince, to consciously occupy himself with the idea of "Paradise Lost." His country
might well claim the best part of his energies, but even the intervals of literary leisure
were given to Amesius and Wollebius rather than Thamyris and Mæonides. Yet the material of
his immortal poem must have gone on accumulating, or inspiration, when it came at last, could
not so soon have been transmuted into song. It can hardly be doubted that his cruel affliction
was, in truth, the crowning blessing of his life. Remanded thus to solemn meditation, he would
gradually rise to the height of his great argument; he would reflect with alarm how little,
in comparison with his powers, he had yet done to "sustain the expectation he had not refused:"
and he would come little by little to the point when he could unfold his wings upon his own
impulse, instead of needing, as always hitherto, the impulse of others. We cannot tell what
influence finally launched this high-piled avalanche of thrice-sifted snow. The time is better
ascertained. Aubrey refers it to 1658, the last year of Oliver's Protectorate. As Cromwell's
death virtually closed Milton's official labours, a Genie, overshadowing land and sea, arose
from the shattered vase of the Latin Secretaryship.

Nothing is more interesting than to observe the first gropings of genius in pursuit of its
aim. Ample insight, as regards Milton, is afforded by the precious manuscripts given to Trinity
College, Cambridge, by Sir Henry Newton Puckering (we know not how he got them), and preserved
by the pious care of Charles Mason and Sir Thomas Clarke. By the portion of the MSS. relating
to Milton's drafts of projected poems, which date about 1640-1642, we see that the form of
his work was to have been dramatic, and that, in respect of subject, the swift mind was divided
between Scripture and British History. No fewer than ninety-nine possible themes--sixty-one
Scriptural, and thirty-eight historical or legendary--are jotted down by him. Four of these
relate to "Paradise Lost." Among the most remarkable of the other subjects are "Sodom" (the
plan is detailed at considerable length, and, though evidently impracticable, is interesting
as a counterpart of "Comus"), "Samson Marrying," "Ahab," "John the Baptist," "Christus Patiens,"
"Vortigern," "Alfred the Great," "Harold," "Athirco" (a very striking subject from a Scotch
legend), and "Macbeth," where Duncan's ghost was to have appeared instead of Banquo's, and
seemingly taken a share in the action. "Arthur," so much in his mind when he wrote the "Epitaphium
Damonis," does not appear at all. Two of the drafts of "Paradise Lost" are mere lists of dramatis
personæ, but the others indicate the shape which the conception had then assumed in Milton's
mind as the nucleus of a religious drama on the pattern of the mediæval mystery or miracle
play. Could he have had any vague knowledge of the autos of Calderon? In the second and more
complete draft Gabriel speaks the prologue. Lucifer bemoans his fall and altercates with the
Chorus of Angels. Eve's temptation apparently takes place off the stage, an arrangement which
Milton would probably have reconsidered. The plan would have given scope for much splendid
poetry, especially where, before Adam's expulsion, "the Angel causes to pass before his eyes
a masque of all the evils of this life and world," a conception traceable in the eleventh book
of "Paradise Lost." But it is grievously cramped in comparison with the freedom of the epic,
as Milton must soon have discovered. That he worked upon it appears from the extremely interesting
fact, preserved by Phillips, that Satan's address to the Sun is part of a dramatic speech which,
according to Milton's plan in 1642 or 1643, would have formed the exordium of his tragedy.
Of the literary sources which may have originated or enriched the conception of "Paradise Lost"
in Milton's mind we shall speak hereafter. It must suffice for the present to remark that his
purpose had from the first been didactic. This is particularly visible in the notes of alternative
subjects in his manuscripts, many of which palpably allude to the ecclesiastical and political
incidents of his time, while one is strikingly prophetic of his own defence of the execution
of Charles I. "The contention between the father of Zimri and Eleazar whether he ought to have
slain his son without law; next the ambassadors of the Moabites expostulating about Cosbi,
a stranger and a noblewoman, slain by Phineas. It may be argued about reformation and punishment
illegal, and, as it were, by tumult. After all arguments driven home, then the word of the
Lord may be brought, acquitting and approving Phineas." It was his earnest aim at all events
to compose something "doctrinal and exemplary to a nation." An easier task than that of "justifying
the ways of God to man" by the cosmogony and anthropology of "Paradise Lost."

If it is true--and the fact seems well attested--that Milton's poetical vein flowed only from
the autumnal equinox to the vernal[5], he cannot well have commenced "Paradise Lost" before
the death of Cromwell, or have made very great progress with it ere his conception of his duty
called him away to questions of ecclesiastical policy. The one point on which he had irreconcilably
differed from Cromwell was that of a State Church; Cromwell, the practical man, perceiving
its necessity, and Milton, the idealist, seeing only its want of logic. Unfortunately, this
inconsequence existed only for the few thinkers who could in that age rise to the acceptance
of Milton's premises. In his "Treatise of Civil Power in Ecclesiastical Causes," published
in February, 1659, he emphatically insists that the civil magistrate has neither the right
nor the power to interfere in matters of religion, and concludes: "The defence only of the
Church belongs to the magistrate. Had he once learnt not further to concern himself with Church
affairs, half his labour might be spared and the commonwealth better tended." It is to be regretted
that he had not entered upon this great subject at an earlier period. The little tract, addressed
to the Republican members of Parliament, is designedly homely in style, and the magnificence
of Milton's diction is still further tamed down by the necessity of resorting to dictation.
It is nevertheless a powerful piece of argument, in its own sphere of abstract reason unanswerable,
and only questionable in that lower sphere of expediency which Milton disdained. In the following
August appeared a sequel with the sarcastic title, "Considerations on the likeliest means to
remove Hirelings out of the Church." The recipe is simple and efficacious--cease to hire them,
and they will cease to be hirelings. Suppress all ecclesiastical endowments, and let the clergyman
be supported by free-will offerings. The fact that this would have consigned about half the
established clergy to beggary does not trouble him; nor were they likely to be greatly troubled
by a proposal so sublimely impracticable. Vested interests can only be over-ridden in times
of revolution, and 1659, in outward appearance a year of anarchy, was in truth a year of reaction.
For the rest, it is to be remarked that Milton scarcely allowed the ministry to be followed
as a profession, and that his views on ecclesiastical organization had come to coincide very
nearly with those now held by the Plymouth Brethren.

There is much plausibility in Pattison's comparison of the men of the Commonwealth disputing
about matters of this sort on the eve of the Restoration, to the Greeks of Constantinople contending
about the Azymite controversy while the Turks were breaching their walls. In fact, however,
this blindness was not confined to one party. Anthony Wood, a Royalist, writing thirty years
afterwards, speaks of the Restoration as an event which no man expected in September, 1659.
The Commonwealth was no doubt dead as a Republic. "Pride's Purge," the execution of Charles,
and Cromwell's expulsion of the remnant of the Commons, had long ago given it mortal wounds.
It was not necessarily defunct as a Protectorate, or a renovated Monarchy: the history of England
might have been very different if Oliver had bequeathed his power to Henry instead of to Richard.
No such vigorous hand taking the helm, and the vessel of the State drifting more and more into
anarchy, the great mass of Englishmen, to the frustration of many generous ideals, but to the
credit of their practical good sense, pronounced for the restoration of Charles the Second.
It is impossible to think without anger and grief of the declension which was to ensue, from
Cromwell enforcing toleration for Protestants to Charles selling himself to France for a pension,
from Blake at Tunis to the Dutch at Chatham. But the Restoration was no national apostasy.
The people as a body did not decline from Milton's standard, for they had never attained to
it; they did not accept the turpitudes of the new government, for they did not anticipate them.
So far as sentiment inspired them, it was not love of license, but compassion for the misfortunes
of an innocent prince. Common sense, however, had much more to do with prompting their action,
and common sense plainly informed them that they had no choice between a restored king and
a military despot. They would not have had even that if the leading military chief had not
been a man of homely sense and vulgar aims; such an one as Milton afterwards drew in--

   "Mammon, the least erected spirit that fell
    From heaven, for even in heaven his looks and thoughts
    Were always downward bent, admiring more
    The riches of heaven's pavement, trodden gold."

In the field, or on the quarter-deck, George Monk was the stout soldier, acquitting himself
of his military duty most punctually. In his political conduct he laid himself out for titles
and money, as little of the ambitious usurper as of the self-denying patriot. Such are they
for whom more generous spirits, imprudently forward in revolutions, usually find that they
have laboured. "Great things," said Edward Gibbon Wakefield, "are begun by men with great souls
and little breeches-pockets, and ended by men with great breeches-pockets and little souls."

Milton would not have been Milton if he could have acquiesced in an ever so needful Henry Cromwell
or Charles Stuart. Never quick to detect the course of public opinion, he was now still further
disabled by his blindness. There is great pathos in the thought of the sightless patriot hungering
for tidings, "as the Red Sea for ghosts," and swayed hither and thither by the narratives and
comments of passionate or interested reporters. At last something occurred which none could
misunderstand or misrepresent. On February 11th, about ten at night, Mr. Samuel Pepys, being
in Cheapside, heard "all the bells in all the churches a-ringing. This burning of the Rump
meant that the attempt of a miserable minority to pose as King, Lords, and Commons, had broken
down, and that the restoration of Charles, for good or ill, was the decree of the people. A
modern Republican might without disgrace have bowed to the gale, for such an one, unless hopelessly
fanatical, denies the divine right of republics equally with that of kings, and allows no other
title than that of the consent of the majority of citizens. But Milton had never admitted the
rights of the majority: and in his supreme effort for the Republic, "The Ready and Easy Way
to establish a free Commonwealth," he ignores the Royalist plurality, and assumes that the
virtuous part of the nation, to whom alone he allows a voice, is as desirous as himself of
the establishment of a Republic, and only needs to be shown the way. As this was by no means
the case, the whole pamphlet rests upon sand: though in days when public opinion was guided
not from the press but from the rostrum, many might have been won by the eloquence of Milton's
invectives against the inhuman pride and hollow ceremonial of kingship, and his encomiums of
the simple order when the ruler's main distinction from the ruled is the severity of his toil.
"Whereas they who are the greatest are perpetual servants and drudges to the public at their
own cost and charges, neglect their own affairs, yet are not elevated above their brethren;
live soberly in their families, walk the street as other men, may be spoken to freely, familiarly,
friendly without adoration." Whatever generous glow for equality such words might kindle, was
only too likely to be quenched when the reader came to learn on what conditions Milton thought
it attainable. His panacea was a permanent Parliament or Council of State, self-elected for
life, or renewable at most only in definite proportions, at stated times. The whole history
of England for the last twelve years was a commentary on the impotence of a Parliament that
had outlived its mandate, and every line of the lesson had been lost upon Milton. He does indeed,
near the end, betray a suspicion that the people may object to hand over the whole business
of legislation to a self-elected and irresponsible body, and is led to make a remarkable suggestion,
prefiguring the federal constitution of the United States, and in a measure the Home Rule and
Communal agitations of our own day. He would make every county independent in so far as regards
the execution of justice between man and man. The districts might make their own laws in this
department, subject only to a moderate amount of control from the supreme council. This must
have seemed to Milton's contemporaries the official enthronement of anarchy, and, in fact,
his proposal, thrown off at a heat with the feverish impetuosity that characterizes the whole
pamphlet, is only valuable as an aid to reflection. Yet, in proclaiming the superiority of
healthy municipal life to a centralized administration, he has anticipated the judgment of
the wisest publicists of our day, and shown a greater insight than was possessed by the more
scientific statesmen of the eighteenth century.

One quality of Milton's pamphlet claims the highest admiration, its audacious courage. On the
very eve of the Restoration, and with full though tardy recognition of its probable imminence,
he protests as loudly as ever the righteousness of Charles's execution, and of the perpetual
exclusion of his family from the throne. When all was lost, it was no disgrace to quit the
field. His pamphlet appeared on March 3, 1660; a second edition, with considerable alterations,
was for the time suppressed. On March 28th the publisher was imprisoned for vending treasonable
books, among which the pamphlet was no doubt included. Every ensuing day added something to
the discomfiture of the Republicans, until on May 1st, "the happiest May-day," says that ardent
Royalist du lendemain, Pepys, "that hath been many a year to England," Charles II.'s letter
was read to a Parliament that none could deny to have been freely chosen, and acclaimed, "without
so much as one No." On May 7th, as is conjectured by the date of an assignment made to Cyriack
Skinner as security for a loan, Milton quitted his house, and concealed himself in Bartholomew
Close, Smithfield. Charles re-entered his kingdom on May 29th, and the hue and cry after regicides
and their abettors began. The King had wisely left the business to Parliament, and, when the
circumstances of the times, and the sincere horror in which good men held what they called
regicide and sacrilege are duly considered, it must be owned that Parliament acted with humanity
and moderation. Still, in the nature of things, proscription on a small scale was inevitable.
Besides the regicides proper, twenty persons were to be named for imprisonment and permanent
incapacitation for office then, and liable to prosecution and possibly capital punishment hereafter.
It seemed almost inevitable that Milton should be included. On June 16th his writings against
Charles I. were ordered to be burned by the hangman, which sentence was performed on August
27th. A Government proclamation enjoining their destruction had been issued on August 13th,
and may now be read in the King's Library at the British Museum. He had not, then, escaped
notice, and how he escaped proscription it is hard to say. Interest was certainly made for
him. Andrew Marvell, Secretary Morrice, and Sir Thomas Clarges, Monk's brother-in-law, are
named as active on his behalf; his brother and his nephew both belonged to the Royalist party,
and there is a romantic story of Sir William Davenant having requited a like obligation under
which he lay to Milton himself. More to his honour this than to have been the offspring of
Shakespeare, but one tale is no better authenticated than the other. The simplest explanation
is that twenty people were found more hated than Milton: it may also have seemed invidious
to persecute a blind man. It is certainly remarkable that the authorities should have failed
to find the hiding-place of so recognizable a person, if they really looked for it. Whether
by his own adroitness or their connivance, he avoided arrest until the amnesty resolution of
August 29th restored him to the world without even being incapacitated from office. He still
had to run the gauntlet of the Serjeant-at-Arms, who at some period unknown arrested him as
obnoxious to the resolution of June 16th, and detained him, charging exorbitant fees, until
compelled to abate his demands by the Commons' resolution of December 15th. Milton relinquished
his house in Westminster, and formed a temporary refuge on the north side of Holborn. His nerves
were shaken; he started in his broken sleep with the apprehension and bewilderment natural
to one for whom, physically and politically, all had become darkness.

His condition, in sooth, was one of well-nigh unmitigated misfortune, and his bearing up against
it is not more of a proof of stoic fortitude than of innate cheerfulness. His cause lost, his
ideals in the dust, his enemies triumphant, his friends dead on the scaffold, or exiled, or
imprisoned, his name infamous, his principles execrated, his property seriously impaired by
the vicissitudes of the times. He had been deprived of his appointment and salary as Latin
Secretary, even before the Restoration: and he was now fleeced of two thousand pounds, invested
in some kind of Government security, which was repudiated in spite of powerful intercession.
Another "great sum" is said by Phillips to have been lost "by mismanagement and want of good
advice," whether at this precise time is uncertain. The Dean and Chapter of Westminster reclaimed
a considerable property which had passed out of their hands in the Civil War. The Serjeant-at-Arms
had no doubt made all out of his captive that the Commons would let him. On the whole, Milton
appears to have saved about £1500 from the wreck of his fortunes, and to have possessed about
£200 income from the interest of this fund and other sources, destined to be yet further reduced
within a few years. The value of money being then about three and a half times as great as
now, this modest income was still a fair competence for one of his frugal habits, even when
burdened with the care of three daughters. The history of his relations with these daughters
is the saddest page of his life. "I looked that my vineyard should bring forth grapes, and
it brought forth wild grapes." If any lot on earth could have seemed enviable to an imaginative
mind and an affectionate heart, it would have been that of an Antigone or a Romola to a Milton.
Milton's daughters chose to reject the fair repute that the simple fulfilment of evident duty
would have brought them, and to be damned to everlasting fame, not merely as neglectful of
their father, but as embittering his existence. The shocking speech attributed to one of them
is, we may hope, not a fact; and it may not be true to the letter that they conspired to rob
him, and sold his books to the ragpickers. The course of events down to his death, nevertheless,
is sufficient evidence of the unhappiness of his household. Writing "Samson Agonistes" in calmer
days, he lets us see how deep the iron had entered into his soul:

                      "I dark in light exposed
    To daily fraud, contempt, abuse, and wrong,
    Within doors, or without, still as a fool
    In power of others, never in my own."

He probably never understood how greatly he was himself to blame. He had, in the first place,
neglected to give his daughters the education which might have qualified them in some measure
to appreciate him. The eldest, Anne, could not even write her name; and it is but a poor excuse
to say that, though good-looking, she was deformed, and afflicted with an impediment in her
speech. The second, Mary, who resembled her mother, and the third, Deborah, the most like her
father, were better taught; but still not to the degree that could make them intelligent doers
of the work they had to perform for him. They were so drilled in foreign languages, including
Greek and Latin (Hebrew and Syriac are also mentioned, but this is difficult of belief), that
they could read aloud to him without any comprehension of the meaning of the text. Sixty years
afterwards, passages of Homer and Ovid were found lingering as melodious sounds in the memory
of the youngest. Such a task, inexpressibly delightful to affection, must have been intolerably
repulsive to dislike or indifference: we can scarcely wonder that two of these children (of
the youngest we have a better report), abhorred the father who exacted so much and imparted
so little. Yet, before visiting any of the parties with inexorable condemnation, we should
consider the strong probability that much of the misery grew out of an antecedent state of
things, for which none of them were responsible. The infant minds of two of the daughters,
and the two chiefly named as undutiful, had been formed by their mother. Mistress Milton cannot
have greatly cherished her husband, and what she wanted in love must have been made up in fear.
She must have abhorred his principles and his writings, and probably gave free course to her
feelings whenever she could have speech with a sympathizer, without caring whether the girls
were within hearing. Milton himself, we know, was cheerful in congenial society, but he were
no poet if he had not been reserved with the uncongenial. To them the silent, abstracted, often
irritable, and finally sightless father would seem awful and forbidding. It is impossible to
exaggerate the susceptibility of young minds to first impressions. The probability is that
ere Mistress Milton departed this life, she had intentionally or unintentionally avenged all
the injuries she could imagine herself to have received from her husband, and furnished him
with a stronger argument than any that had found a place in the "Doctrine and Discipline of
Divorce."

It is something in favour of the Milton girls that they were at least not calculating in their
undutifulness. Had they reflected, they must have seen that their behaviour was little to their
interest. If they brought a stepmother upon themselves, the blame was theirs. Something must
certainly be done to keep Milton's library from the rag-women; and in February, 1663, by the
advice of his excellent physician Dr. Paget, he married Elizabeth Minshull, daughter of a yeoman
of Wistaston in Cheshire, a distant relation of Dr. Paget's own, and exactly thirty years younger
than Milton. "A genteel person, a peaceful and agreeable woman," says Aubrey, who knew her,
and refutes by anticipation Richardson's anonymous informant, perhaps Deborah Clarke, who libelled
her as "a termagant." She was pretty, and had golden hair, which one connects pleasantly with
the late sunshine she brought into Milton's life. She sang to his accompaniment on the organ
and bass-viol, but is not recorded to have read or written for him; the only direct testimony
we have of her care of him is his verbal acknowledgment of her attention to his creature comforts.
Yet Aubrey's memoranda show that she could talk with her husband about Hobbes, and she treasured
the letters he had received from distinguished foreigners. At the time of their marriage Milton
was living in Jewin Street, Aldersgate, from which he soon afterwards removed to Artillery
Walk, Bunhill Fields, his last residence. He lodged in the interim with Millington, the book
auctioneer, a man of superior ability, whom an informant of Richardson's had often met in the
streets leading his inmate by the hand.

It is at this era of Milton's history that we obtain the fullest details of his daily life,
as being nearer to the recollection of those from whom information was sought after his death.
His household was larger than might have been expected in his reduced circumstances; he had
a man-servant, Greene, and a maid, named Fisher. That true hero-worshipper, Aubrey, tells us
that he generally rose at four, and was even then attended by his "man" who read to him out
of the Hebrew Bible. Such erudition in a serving-man almost surpasses credibility: the English
Bible probably sufficed both. It is easier to believe that some one read to him or wrote for
him from seven till dinner time: if, however, "the writing was nearly as much as the reading,"
much that Milton dictated must have been lost. His recreations were walking in his garden,
never wanting to any of his residences, where he would continue for three or four hours at
a time; swinging in a chair when weather prevented open-air exercise; and music, that blissful
resource of blindness. His instrument was usually the organ, the counterpart of the stately
harmony of his own verse. To these relaxations must be added the society of faithful friends,
among whom Andrew Marvell, Dr. Paget, and Cyriack Skinner are particularly named. Nor did Edward
Phillips neglect his uncle, finding him, as Aubrey implies, "most familiar and free in his
conversation to those to whom most sour in his way of education." Milton had made him "a songster,"
and we can imagine the "sober, silent, and most harmless person" (Evelyn) opening his lips
to accompany his uncle's music. Of Milton's manner Aubrey says, "Extreme pleasant in his conversation,
and at dinner, supper, etc., but satirical." Visitors usually came from six till eight, if
at all, and the day concluded with a light supper, sometimes of olives, which we may well imagine
fraught for him with Tuscan memories, a pipe, and a glass of water. This picture of plain living
and high thinking is confirmed by the testimony of the Quaker Thomas Ellwood, who for a short
time read to him, and who describes the kindness of his demeanour, and the pains he took to
teach the foreign method of pronouncing Latin. Even more; "having a curious ear, he understood
by my tone when I understood what I read and when I did not, and accordingly would stop me,
examine me, and open the most difficult passages to me." Milton must have felt a special tenderness
for the Quakers, whose religious opinions, divested of the shell of eccentricity which the
vulgar have always mistaken for the kernel, had become substantially his own. He had outgrown
Independency as formerly Presbyterianism. His blindness served to excuse his absence from public
worship; to which, so long at least as Clarendon's intolerance prevailed in the councils of
Charles the Second, might be added the difficulty of finding edification in the pulpit, had
he needed it. But these reasons, though not imaginary, were not those which really actuated
him. He had ceased to value rites and forms of any kind, and, had his religious views been
known, he would have been "equalled in fate" with his contemporary Spinoza. Yet he was writing
a book which orthodox Protestantism has accepted as but a little lower than the Scriptures.

"The kingdom of heaven cometh not with observation." We know but little of the history of the
greatest works of genius. That something more than usual should be known of "Paradise Lost"
must be ascribed to the author's blindness, and consequent dependence upon amanuenses. When
inspiration came upon him any one at hand would be called upon to preserve the precious verses,
hence the progress of the poem was known to many, and Phillips can speak of "parcels of ten,
twenty, or thirty verses at a time." We have already heard from him that Milton's season of
inspiration lasted from the autumnal equinox to the vernal: the remainder of the year doubtless
contributed much to the matter of his poem, if nothing to the form.

This is something more precise than a mere poetical allusion to his blindness, and the inference
is strengthened by the anecdote that when "his celestial patroness" "Deigned nightly visitation
unimplored," his daughters were frequently called at night to take down the verses, not one
of which the whole world could have replaced. This was as it should be. Grand indeed is the
thought of the unequalled strain poured forth when every other voice was hushed in the mighty
city, to no meaner accompaniment than the music of the spheres. Respecting the date of composition,
we may trust Aubrey's statement that the poem was commenced in 1658, and when the rapidity
of Milton's composition is considered ("Easy my unpremeditated verse") it may, notwithstanding
the terrible hindrances of the years 1659 and 1660, have been, as Aubrey thinks, completed
by 1663. It would still require mature revision, which we know from Ellwood that it had received
by the summer of 1665. Internal evidence of the chronology of the poem is very scanty. Professor
Masson thinks that the first two books were probably written before the Restoration. In support
of this view it may be urged that lines 500-505 of Book i. wear the appearance of an insertion
after the Restoration, and that in the invocation to the Third Book Milton may be thought to
allude to the dangers his life and liberty had afterwards encountered, figured by the regions
of nether darkness which he had traversed as a poet.

   "Hail holy Light!...
    Thee I revisit now with bolder wing,
    Escaped the Stygian pool, though long detained
    In that obscure sojourn, while in my flight
    Through utter and through middle darkness borne." Still govern thou my song,
    Urania, and fit audience find, though few.
    But drive far off the barbarous dissonance
    Of Bacchus and his revellers, the race
    Of that wild rout that tore the Thracian bard."

This allusion to the licentiousness of the Restoration literature could hardly have been made
until its tendencies had been plainly developed. At this time "Paradise Lost" was half finished.
("Half yet remains unsung.") The remark permits us to conclude that Milton conceived and executed
his poem as a whole, going steadily through it, and not leaving gaps to be supplied at higher
or lower levels of inspiration. There is no evidence of any resort to older material, except
in the case of Satan's address to the Sun.

The publication of "Paradise Lost" was impeded like the birth of Hercules. In 1665 London was
a city of the dying and the dead; in 1666 the better part of it was laid in ashes. One remarkable
incident of the calamity was the destruction of the stocks of the booksellers, which had been
brought into the vaults of St. Paul's for safety, and perished with the cathedral. "Paradise
Lost" might have easily, like its hero--

        "In the singing smoke
    Uplifted spurned the ground."

but the negotiations for its publication were not complete until April 27, 1667, on which day
John Milton, "in consideration of five pounds to him now paid by Samuel Symmons, and other
the considerations herein mentioned," assigned to the said Symmons, "all that book, copy, or
manuscript of a poem intituled 'Paradise Lost,' or by whatsoever ether title or name the same
is or shall be called or distinguished, now lately licensed to be printed." The other considerations
were the payment of the like sum of five pounds upon the entire sale of each of the first three
impressions, each impression to consist of thirteen hundred copies. "According to the present
value of money," says Professor Masson, "it was as if Milton had received £17 10s. down, and
was to expect £70 in all. That was on the supposition of a sale of 3,900 copies." He lived
to receive ten pounds altogether; and his widow in 1680 parted with all her interest in the
copyright for eight pounds, Symmons shortly afterwards reselling it for twenty-five. He is
not, therefore, to be enumerated among those publishers who have fattened upon their authors,
and when the size of the book and the unfashionableness of the writer are considered, his enterprise
may perhaps appear the most remarkable feature of the transaction. As for Milton, we may almost
rejoice that he should have reaped no meaner reward than immortality.

It will have been observed that in the contract with Symmons "Paradise Lost" is said to have
been "lately licensed to be printed." The censorship named in "Areopagitica" still prevailed,
with the difference that prelates now sat in judgment upon Puritans. The Archbishop gave or
refused license through his chaplains, and could not be ignored as Milton had ignored the little
Presbyterian Popes; Geneva in his person must repair to Lambeth. Chaplain Tomkyns, who took
cognisance of "Paradise Lost," was fortunately a broad-minded man, disposed to live and let
live, though scrupling somewhat when he found "perplexity" and "fear of change" imputed to
"monarchs." His objections were overcome, and on August 20, 1667--three weeks after the death
of Cowley, and eight days after Pepys had heard the deceased extolled as the greatest of English
poets--John Milton came forth clad as with adamantine mail in the approbation of Thomas Tomkyns.
The moment beseemed the event, it was a crisis in English history, when heaven's "golden scales"
for weighing evil against good were hung--

    "Betwixt Astrea and the Scorpion sign,"

one weighted with a consuming fleet, the other with a falling minister. The Dutch had just
burned the English navy at Chatham; on the other hand, the reign of respectable bigotry was
about to pass away with Clarendon. Far less reputable men were to succeed, but men whose laxity
of principle at least excluded intolerance. The people were on the move, if not, as Milton
would have wished, "a noble and puissant nation rousing herself like a strong man after sleep,"
at least a faint and weary nation creeping slowly--Tomkyns and all--towards an era of liberty
and reason when Tomkyns's imprimatur would be accounted Tomkyns's impertinence.

CHAPTER VII.

The world's great epics group themselves in two divisions, which may be roughly defined as
the natural and the artificial. The spontaneous or self-created epic is a confluence of traditions,
reduced to symmetry by the hand of a master. Such are the Iliad, the Odyssey, the great Indian
and Persian epics, the Nibelungen Lied. In such instances it may be fairly said that the theme
has chosen the poet, rather than the poet the theme. When the epic is a work of reflection,
the poet has deliberately selected his subject, and has not, in general, relied so much upon
the wealth of pre-existing materials as upon the capabilities of a single circumstance. Such
are the epics of Virgil, Camoens, Tasso, Milton; Dante, perhaps, standing alone as the one
epic poet (for we cannot rank Ariosto and Spenser in this class) who owes everything but his
creed to his own invention. The traditional epic, created by the people and only moulded by
the minstrel, is so infinitely the more important for the history of culture, that, since this
new field of investigation has become one of paramount interest, the literary epic has been
in danger of neglect. Yet it must be allowed that to evolve an epic out of a single incident
is a greater intellectual achievement than to weave one out of a host of ballads. We must also
admit that, leaving the unique Dante out of account, Milton essayed a more arduous enterprise
than any of his predecessors, and in this point of view may claim to stand above them all.
We are so accustomed to regard the existence of "Paradise Lost" as an ultimate fact, that we
but imperfectly realize the gigantic difficulty and audacity of the undertaking. To paint the
bloom of Paradise with the same brush that has depicted the flames and blackness of the nether
world; to make the Enemy of Mankind, while preserving this character, an heroic figure, not
without claims on sympathy and admiration; to lend fit speech to the father and mother of humanity,
to angels and archangels, and even Deity itself;--these achievements required a Michael Angelo
shorn of his strength in every other province of art, that all might be concentrated in song.

It is easy to represent "Paradise Lost" as obsolete by pointing out that its demonology and
angelology have for us become mere mythology. This criticism is more formidable in appearance
than in reality. The vital question for the poet is his own belief, not the belief of his readers.
If the Iliad has survived not merely the decay of faith in the Olympian divinities, but the
criticism which has pulverized Achilles as a historical personage, "Paradise Lost" need not
be much affected by general disbelief in the personality of Satan, and universal disbelief
in that of Gabriel, Raphael, and Uriel. A far more vulnerable point is the failure of the purpose
so ostentatiously proclaimed, "To justify the ways of God to men." This problem was absolutely
insoluble on Milton's data, except by denying the divine foreknowledge, a course not open to
him. The conduct of the Deity who allows his adversary to ruin his innocent creature from the
purely malignant motive

   "That with reiterated crimes he might
    Heap on himself damnation,"

without further interposition than a warning which he foresees will be fruitless, implies a
grievous deficiency either in wisdom or in goodness, or at best falsifies the declaration:

                    "Necessity and chance
    Approach me not, and what I will is fate."

The like flaw runs through the entire poem, where Satan alone is resolute and rational. Nothing
can exceed the imbecility of the angelic guard to which Man's defence is entrusted. Uriel,
after threatening to drag Satan in chains back to Tartarus, and learning by a celestial portent
that he actually has the power to fulfil his threat, considerately draws the fiend's attention
to the circumstance, and advises him to take himself off, which Satan judiciously does, with
the intention of returning as soon as convenient. The angels take all possible pains to prevent
his gaining an entrance into Paradise, but omit to keep Adam and Eve themselves in sight, notwithstanding
the strong hint they have received by finding the intruder

   "Squat like a toad, close at the ear of Eve,
    Assaying by his devilish art to reach
    The organs of her fancy, and with them forge
    Illusions as he list, phantasms and dreams."

If anything more infatuated can be imagined, it is the simplicity of the All-Wise Himself in
entrusting the wardership of the gate of Hell, and consequently the charge of keeping Satan
in, to the beings in the universe most interested in letting him out. The sole but sufficient
excuse is that these faults are inherent in the subject. If Milton had not thought that he
could justify the ways of Jehovah to man he would not have written at all; common sense on
the part of the angels would have paralysed the action of the poem; we should, if conscious
of our loss, have lamented the irrefragable criticism that should have stifled the magnificent
allegory of Sin and Death. Another critical thrust is equally impossible to parry. It is true
that the Evil One is the hero of the epic. Attempts have been made to invest Adam with this
character. He is, indeed, a great figure to contemplate, and such as might represent the ideal
of humanity till summoned to act and suffer. When, indeed, he partakes of the forbidden fruit
in disobedience to his Maker, but in compassion to his mate, he does seem for a moment to fulfil
the canon which decrees that the hero shall not always be faultless, but always shall be noble.
The moment, however, that he begins to wrangle with Eve about their respective shares of blame,
he forfeits his estate of heroism more irretrievably than his estate of holiness--a fact of
which Milton cannot have been unaware, but he had no liberty to forsake the Scripture narrative.
Satan remains, therefore, the only possible hero, and it is one of the inevitable blemishes
of the poem that he should disappear almost entirely from the latter books.

These defects, and many more which might be adduced, are abundantly compensated by the poet's
vital relation to the religion of his age. No poet whose fame is co-extensive with the civilised
world, except Shakespeare and Goethe, has ever been greatly in advance of his times. Hence
it is that in the "Adonais," Shelley calls Milton "the third among the sons of light."

A clear conception of the universe as Milton's inner eye beheld it, and of his religious and
philosophical opinions in so far as they appear in the poem, is indispensable for a correct
understanding of "Paradise Lost." The best service to be rendered to the reader within such
limits as ours is to direct him to Professor Masson's discussion of Milton's cosmology in his
"Life of Milton," and also in his edition of the Poetical Works. Generally speaking, it may
be said that Milton's conception of the universe is Ptolemaic, that for him sun and moon and
planets revolve around the central earth, rapt by the revolution of the crystal spheres in
which, sphere enveloping sphere, they are successively located. But the light which had broken
in upon him from the discoveries of Galileo has led him to introduce features not irreconcilable
with the solar centre and ethereal infinity of Copernicus; so that "the poet would expect the
effective permanence of his work in the imagination of the world, whether Ptolemy or Copernicus
should prevail." So Professor Masson, who finely and justly adds that Milton's blindness helped
him "by having already converted all external space in his own sensations into an infinite
of circumambient blackness through which he could flash brilliance at his pleasure." His inclination
as a thinker is evidently towards the Copernican theory, but he saw that the Ptolemaic, however
inferior in sublimity, was better adapted to the purpose of a poem requiring a definite theatre
of action. For rapturous contemplation of the glory of God in nature, the Copernican system
is immeasurably the more stimulating to the spirit, but when made the theatre of an action
the universe fatigues with its infinitude--

   "Millions have meaning; after this
      Cyphers forget the integer."

An infinite sidereal universe would have stultified the noble description how Satan--

        "In the emptier waste, resembling air,
    Weighs his spread wings, at leisure to behold
    Far off the empyreal heaven, extended wide
    In circuit, undetermined square or round,
    With opal towers and battlements adorned
    Of living sapphire, once his native seat;
    And fast by, hanging in a golden chain,
    This pendant world, in bigness as a star
    Of smallest magnitude close by the moon."

This pendant world, observe, is not the earth, as Addison understood it, but the entire sidereal
universe, depicted not as the infinity we now know it to be, but as a definite object, so insulated
in the vastness of space as to be perceptible to the distant Fiend as a minute star, and no
larger in comparison with the courts of Heaven--themselves not wholly seen--than such a twinkler
matched with the full-orbed moon. Such a representation, if it diminishes the grandeur of the
universe accessible to sense, exalts that of the supersensual and extramundane regions where
the action takes its birth, and where Milton's gigantic imagination is most perfectly at home.

There is no such compromise between religious creeds in Milton's mind as he saw good to make
between Ptolemy and Copernicus. The matter was, in his estimation, far too serious. Never was
there a more unaccountable misstatement than Ruskin's, that "Paradise Lost" is a poem in which
every artifice of invention is consciously employed--not a single fact being conceived as tenable
by any living faith. Milton undoubtedly believed most fully in the actual existence of all
his chief personages, natural and supernatural, and was sure that, however he might have indulged
his imagination in the invention of incidents, he had represented character with the fidelity
of a conscientious historian. His religious views, moreover, are such as he could never have
thought it right to publish if he had not been intimately convinced of their truth. He has
strayed far from the creed of Puritanism. He is an Arian; his Son of God, though an unspeakably
exalted being, is dependent, inferior, not self-existent, and could be merged in the Father's
person or obliterated entirely without the least diminution of Almighty perfection. He is,
moreover, no longer a Calvinist: Satan and Adam both possess free will, and neither need have
fallen. The reader must accept these views, as well as Milton's conception of the materiality
of the spiritual world, if he is to read to good purpose. "If his imagination," says Pattison,
pithily, "is not active enough to assist the poet, he must at least not resist him."

This is excellent advice as respects the general plan of "Paradise Lost," the materiality of
its spiritual personages, and its system of philosophy and theology. Its poetical beauties
can only be resisted where they are not perceived. They have repeated the miracles of Orpheus
and Amphion, metamorphosing one most bitterly obnoxious, of whom so late as 1687 a royalist
wrote that "his fame is gone out like a candle in a snuff, and his memory will always stink,"
into an object of universal veneration. From the first instant of perusal the imagination is
led in captivity, and for the first four books at least stroke upon stroke of sublimity follows
with such continuous and undeviating regularity that sublimity seems this Creation's first
law, and we feel like pigmies transported to a world of giants. There is nothing forced or
affected in this grandeur, no visible effort, no barbaric profusion, everything proceeds with
a severe and majestic order, controlled by the strength that called it into being. The similes
and other poetical ornaments, though inexpressibly magnificent, seem no more so than the greatness
of the general conception demands.

These similes, and an infinity of others, are grander than anything in Homer, who would, however,
have equalled them with an equal subject. Dante's treatment is altogether different; the microscopic
intensity of perception in which he so far surpasses Homer and Milton affords, in our opinion,
no adequate compensation for his inferiority in magnificence. That the theme of "Paradise Lost"
should have evoked such grandeur is a sufficient compensation for its incurable flaws and the
utter breakdown of its ostensible moral purpose. There is yet another department of the poem
where Milton writes as he could have written on nothing else. The elements of his under-world
are comparatively simple, fire and darkness, fallen angels now huddled thick as leaves in Vallombrosa;
anon,

    "A forest huge of spears and thronging helms,"

charming their painful steps over the burning marl by

            "The Dorian mood
    Of flutes and soft recorders;"

the dazzling magnificence of Pandemonium; the ineffable welter of Chaos; proudly eminent over
all like a tower, the colossal personality of Satan. The description of Paradise and the story
of Creation, if making less demand on the poet's creative power, required greater resources
of knowledge, and more consummate skill in combination. Nature must yield up her treasures,
whatever of fair and stately the animal and vegetable kingdoms can afford must be brought together,
blended in gorgeous masses or marshalled in infinite procession. Here Milton is as profuse
as he has hitherto been severe, and with good cause; it is possible to make Hell too repulsive
for art, it is not possible to make Eden too enchanting. In his descriptions of the former
the effect is produced by a perpetual succession of isolated images of awful majesty; in his
Paradise and Creation the universal landscape is bathed in a general atmosphere of lustrous
splendour. This portion of his work is accordingly less great in detached passages, but is
little inferior in general greatness. No less an authority than Tennyson, indeed, expresses
a preference for the "bowery loneliness" of Eden over the "Titan angels" of the "deep-domed
Empyrean." If this only means that Milton's Eden is finer than his war in heaven, we must concur;
but if a wider application be intended, it does seem to us that his Pandemonium exalts him
to a greater height above every other poet than his Paradise exalts him above his predecessor,
and in some measure, his exemplar, Spenser.

To remain at such an elevation was impossible. Milton compares
unfavourably with Homer in this; his epic begins at its zenith, and
after a while visibly and continually declines. His genius is
unimpaired, but his skill transcends his stuff. The fall of man and its
consequences could not by any device be made as interesting as the fall
of Satan, of which it is itself but a consequence. It was, moreover,
absolutely inevitable that Adam's fall, the proper catastrophe of the
poem, should occur some time before the conclusion, otherwise there
would have been no space for the unfolding of the scheme of Redemption,
equally essential from the point of view of orthodoxy and of art. The
effect is the same as in the case of Shakespeare's "Julius Cæsar,"
which, having proceeded with matchless vigour up to the flight of the
conspirators after Antony's speech, becomes comparatively tame and
languid, and cannot be revived even by such a masterpiece as the
contention between Brutus and Cassius. It is to be regretted that
Milton's extreme devotion to the letter of Scripture has not permitted
him to enrich his latter books with any corresponding episode.
    Some natural tears they dropped, but wiped them soon.
    The world was all before them, where to choose
    Their place of rest, and Providence their guide.
    They, hand in hand, with wandering steps and slow,
    Through Eden took their solitary way."

Some minor objections may be briefly noticed. The materiality of Milton's celestial warfare
has been censured by every one from the days of Sir Samuel Morland,[6] a splenetic critic,
who had incurred Milton's contempt by his treachery to Cromwell and Thurloe. Warfare, however,
there must be: war cannot be made without weapons; and Milton's only fault is that he has rather
exaggerated than minimized the difficulties of his subject. A sense of humour would have spiked
his celestial artillery, but a lively perception of the ridiculous is scarcely to be demanded
from a Milton. After all, he was borrowing from good poets,[7] whose thought in itself is correct,
and even profound; it is only when artillery antedates humanity that the ascription of its
invention to the Tempter seems out of place. The metamorphosis of the demons into serpents
has been censured as grotesque; but it was imperatively necessary to manifest by some unmistakable
outward sign that victory did not after all remain with Satan, and the critics may be challenged
to find one more appropriate. The bridge built by Sin and Death is equally essential. Satan's
progeny must not be dismissed without some exploit worthy of their parentage. The one passage
where Milton's taste seems to us entirely at fault is the description of the Paradise of Fools
(iii., 481-497), where his scorn of--

                        "Reliques, beads,
    Indulgences, dispenses, pardons, bulls,"

has tempted him to chequer the sublime with the ludicrous.

No subject but a Biblical one would have insured Milton universal popularity among his countrymen,
for his style is that of an ancient classic transplanted, like Aladdin's palace set down with
all its magnificence in the heart of Africa; and his diction, the delight of the educated,
is the despair of the ignorant man. Not that this diction is in any respect affected or pedantic.
Milton was the darling poet of our greatest modern master of unadorned Saxon speech, John Bright.
But it is freighted with classic allusion--not alone from the ancient classics--and comes to
us rich with gathered sweets, like a wind laden with the scent of many flowers. "It is," says
Pattison, "the elaborated outcome of all the best words of all antecedent poetry--the language
of one who lives in the companionship of the great and the wise of past time." "Words," the
same writer reminds us, "over and above their dictionary signification, connote all the feeling
which has gathered round them by reason of their employment through a hundred generations of
song." So it is, every word seems instinct with its own peculiar beauty, and fraught with its
own peculiar association, and yet each detail is strictly subordinate to the general effect.
No poet of Milton's rank, probably, has been equally indebted to his predecessors, not only
for his vocabulary, but for his thoughts. Reminiscences throng upon him, and he takes all that
comes, knowing that he can make it lawfully his own. The comparison of Satan's shield to the
moon, for instance, is borrowed from the similar comparison of the shield of Achilles in the
Iliad, but what goes in Homer comes out Milton. Homer merely says that the huge and massy shield
emitted a lustre like that of the moon in heaven.

Thus does Milton appropriate the wealth of past literature, secure of being able to recoin
it with his own image and superscription. The accumulated learning which might have choked
the native fire of a feebler spirit was but nourishment to his. The polished stones and shining
jewels of his superb mosaic are often borrowed, but its plan and pattern are his own.

One of the greatest charms of "Paradise Lost" is the incomparable metre, which, after Coleridge
and Tennyson have done their utmost, remains without equal in our language for the combination
of majesty and music. It is true that this majesty is to a certain extent inherent in the subject,
and that the poet who could rival it would scarcely be well advised to exert his power to the
full unless his theme also rivalled the magnificence of Milton's. Milton, on his part, would
have been quite content to have written such blank verse as Wordsworth's "Yew Trees," or as
the exordium of "Alastor," or as most of Coleridge's idylls, had his subject been less than
epical. The organ-like solemnity of his verbal music is obtained partly by extreme attention
to variety of pause, but chiefly, as Wordsworth told Klopstock, and as Mr. Addington Symonds
points out more at length, by the period, not the individual line, being made the metrical
unit, "so that each line in a period shall carry its proper burden of sound, but the burden
shall be differently distributed in the successive verses." Hence lines which taken singly
seem almost unmetrical, in combination with their associates appear indispensable parts of
the general harmony. Mr. Symonds gives some striking instances. Milton's versification is that
of a learned poet, profound in thought and burdened with the further care of ordering his thoughts:
it is therefore only suited to sublimity of a solemn or meditative cast, and most unsuitable
to render the unstudied sublimity of Homer.

How exquisite the indication of the pauseless continuity of the nightingale's song by the transition
from short sentences, cut up by commas and semicolons, to the "linked sweetness long drawn
out" of "She all night long her amorous descant sung"! The poem is full of similar felicities,
none perhaps more noteworthy than the sequence of monosyllables that paints the enormous bulk
of the prostrate Satan:--

    "So stretched out huge in length the Arch-fiend lay."

It is a most interesting subject for inquiry from what sources, other than the Scriptures,
Milton drew aid in the composition of "Paradise Lost." The most striking counterpart is Calderon,
to whom he owed as little as Calderon can have owed to him. "El Magico Prodigioso," already
cited as affording a remarkable parallel to "Comus," though performed in 1637, was not printed
until 1663, when "Paradise Lost" was already completed.[8] The two great religious poets have
naturally conceived the Evil One much in the same manner, and Calderon's Lucifer,

    "Like the red outline of beginning Adam,"

might well have passed as the original draft of Milton's Satan:--

                               "In myself I am
    A world of happiness and misery;
    This I have lost, and that I must lament
    For ever. Nor was I alone,
    Nor am I now, nor shall I be, alone.

A striking proof that resemblance does not necessarily imply plagiarism. Milton's affinity
to Calderon has been overlooked by his commentators; but four luminaries have been named from
which he is alleged to have drawn, however sparingly, in his golden urn--Caedmon, the Adamus
Exul of Grotius, the Adamo of the Italian dramatist Andreini, and the Lucifer of the Dutch
poet Vondel. Caedmon, first printed in 1655, it is but barely possible that he should have
known, and ere he could have known him the conception of "Paradise Lost" was firmly implanted
in his mind. External evidence proves his acquaintance with Grotius, internal evidence his
knowledge of Andreini: and small as are his direct obligations to the Italian drama, we can
easily believe with Hayley that "his fancy caught fire from that spirited, though irregular
and fantastic composition." Vondel's Lucifer--whose subject is not the fall of Adam, but the
fall of Satan--was acted and published in 1654, when Milton is known to have been studying
Dutch, but when the plan of "Paradise Lost" must have been substantially formed. There can,
nevertheless, be no question of the frequent verbal correspondences, not merely between Vondel's
Lucifer and "Paradise Lost," but between his Samson and "Samson Agonistes." Milton's indebtedness,
so long ago as 1829, attracted the attention of an English poet of genius, Thomas Lovell Beddoes,
who pointed out that his lightning-speech, "Better to reign in hell than serve in heaven,"
was a thunderbolt condensed from a brace of Vondel's clumsy Alexandrines, which Beddoes renders
thus:--

   "And rather the first prince at an inferior court
    Than in the blessed light the second or still less."

Mr. Gosse followed up the inquiry, which eventually became the subject of a monograph by Mr.
George Edmundson ("Milton and Vondel," 1885). That Milton should have had, as he must have
had, Vondel's works translated aloud to him, is a most interesting proof, alike of his ardour
in the enrichment of his own mind, and of his esteem for the Dutch poet. Although, however,
his obligations to predecessors are not to be overlooked, they are in general only for the
most obvious ideas and expressions, lying right in the path of any poet treating the subject.
Je l'aurais bien pris sans toi. When, as in the instance above quoted, he borrows anything
more recondite, he so exalts and transforms it that it passes from the original author to him
like an angel the former has entertained unawares. This may not entirely apply to the Italian
reformer, Bernardino Ochino, to whom, rather than to Tasso, Milton seems indebted for the conception
of his diabolical council. Ochino, in many respects a kindred spirit to Milton, must have been
well known to him as the first who had dared to ventilate the perilous question of the lawfulness
of polygamy. In Ochino's "Divine Tragedy," which he may have read either in the Latin original
or in the nervous translation of Bishop Poynet, Milton would find a hint for his infernal senate.
"The introduction to the first dialogue," says Ochino's biographer Benrath, "is highly dramatic,
and reminds us of Job and Faust." Ochino's arch-fiend, like Milton's, announces a masterstroke
of genius. "God sent His Son into the world, and I will send my son." Antichrist accordingly
comes to light in the shape of the Pope, and works infinite havoc until Henry VIII. is divinely
commissioned for his discomfiture. It is a token, not only of Milton's, but of Vondel's, indebtedness,
that, with Ochino as with them, Beelzebub holds the second place in the council, and even admonishes
his leader. "I fear me," he remarks, "lest when Antichrist shall die, and come down hither
to hell, that as he passeth us in wickedness, so he will be above us in dignity." Prescience
worthy of him who

                         "In his rising seemed
    A pillar of state; deep on his front engraven
    Deliberation sat, and public care;
    And princely counsel in his face yet shone."

Milton's borrowings, nevertheless, nowise impair his greatness. The obligation is rather theirs,
of whose stores he has condescended to avail himself. He may be compared to his native country,
which, fertile originally in little but enterprise, has made the riches of the earth her own.
He has given her a national epic, inferior to no other, and unlike most others, founded on
no merely local circumstance, but such as must find access to every nation acquainted with
the most widely-circulated Book in the world. He has further enriched his native literature
with an imperishable monument of majestic diction, an example potent to counteract that wasting
agency of familiar usage by which language is reduced to vulgarity, as sea-water wears cliffs
to shingle. He has reconciled, as no other poet has ever done, the Hellenic spirit with the
Hebraic, the Bible with the Renaissance. And, finally, as we began by saying, his poem is the
mighty bridge--

    "Bound with Gorgonian rigour not to move,"

across which the spirit of ancient poetry has travelled to modern times, and by which the continuity
of great English literature has remained unbroken.

CHAPTER VIII.

In recording the publication of "Paradise Lost" in 1667, we have passed over the interval of
Milton's life immediately subsequent to the completion of the poem in 1663. The first incident
of any importance is his migration to Chalfont St. Giles, near Beaconsfield, in Buckinghamshire,
about July, 1665, to escape the plague then devastating London. Ell wood, whose family lived
in the neighbourhood of Chalfont, had at his request taken for him "a pretty box" in that village;
and we are, says Professor Masson, "to imagine Milton's house in Artillery Walk shuttered up,
and a coach and a large waggon brought to the door, and the blind man helped in, and the wife
and the three daughters following, with a servant to look after the books and other things
they have taken with them, and the whole party driven away towards Giles-Chalfont." According
to the same authority, Chalfont well deserves the name of Sleepy Hollow, lying at the bottom
of a leafy dell. Milton's cottage, alone of his residences, still exists, though divided into
two tenements. It is a two-storey dwelling, with a garden, is built of brick, with wooden beams,
musters nine rooms--though a question arises whether some of them ought not rather to be described
as closets; the porch in which Milton may have breathed the summer air is gone, but the parlour
retains the latticed casement at which he sat, though through it he could not see. His infirmity
rendered the confined situation less of a drawback, and there are abundance of pleasant lanes,
along which he could be conducted in his sightless strolls:--

   "As one who long in populous city pent,
    Where houses thick and sewers annoy the air,
    Forth issuing on a summer's morn to breathe
    Among the pleasant villages and farms
    Adjoined, from each new thing conceives delight,
    The smell of grain, or tedded grass, or kine,
    Or dairy, each rural sight, each rural sound."

Milton was probably no stranger to the neighbourhood, having lived within thirteen miles of
it when he dwelt at Horton. Ellwood could not welcome him on his arrival, being in prison on
account of an affray at what should have been the paragon of decorous solemnities--a Quaker
funeral. When released, about the end of August or the beginning of September, he waited upon
Milton, who, "after some discourses, called for a manuscript of his; which he delivered to
me, bidding me take it home with me and read it at my leisure. When I set myself to read it,
I found it was that excellent poem which he entitled 'Paradise Lost.'" Professor Masson justly
remarks that Milton would not have trusted the worthy Quaker adolescent with the only copy
of his epic; we may be sure, therefore, that other copies existed, and that the poem was at
this date virtually completed and ready for press. The plague was then at its height, and did
not abate sufficiently for Milton to return to town with safety until about February in the
following year, leaving, it has been asserted, a record of himself at Chalfont in the shape
of a sonnet on the pestilence regarded as a judgment for the sins of the King, written with
a diamond on a window-pane--as if the blind poet could write even with a pen! The verses, nevertheless,
may not impossibly be genuine: they are almost too Miltonic for an imitator between 1665 and
1738, when they were first published.

The public calamity of 1666 affected Milton more nearly than that of 1665. The Great Fire came
within a quarter of a mile of his house, and though he happily escaped the fate of Shirley,
and did not make one of the helpless crowd of the homeless and destitute, his means were seriously
abridged by the destruction of the house in Bread Street where he had first seen the light,
and which he had retained through all the vicissitudes of his fortunes. He could not, probably,
have published "Paradise Lost" without the co-operation of Samuel Symmons. Symmons's endeavours
to push the sale of the book make the bibliographical history of the first edition unusually
interesting. There were at least nine different issues, as fresh batches were successively
bound up, with frequent alterations of title-page as reasonable cause became apparent to the
strategic Symmons. First Milton's name is given in full, then he is reduced to initials, then
restored; Symmons's own name, at first suppressed, by and by appears; his agents are frequently
changed; and the title is altered to suit the year of issue, that the book may seem a novelty.
The most important of all these alterations is one in which the author must have actively participated--the
introduction of the Argument which, a hundred and forty years afterwards, was to cause Harriet
Martineau to take up "Paradise Lost" at the age of seven, and of the Note on the metre conveying
"a reason of that which stumbled many, why this poem rimes not." Partly, perhaps, by help of
these devices, certainly without any aid from advertising or reviewing, the impression of thirteen
hundred copies was disposed of within twenty months, as attested by Milton's receipt for his
second five pounds, April 26, 1669--two years, less one day, since the signature of the original
contract. The first printed notice appeared after the edition had been entirely sold. It was
by Milton's nephew, Edward Phillips, and was contained in a little Latin essay appended to
Buchlerus's "Treasury of Poetical Phrases."

      "John Milton, in addition to other most elegant writings of his,
      both in English and Latin, has recently published 'Paradise Lost,'
      a poem which, whether we regard the sublimity of the subject, or
      the combined pleasantness and majesty of the style, or the
      sublimity of the invention, or the beauty of its images and
      descriptions of nature, will, if I mistake not, receive the name
      of truly heroic, inasmuch as by the suffrages of many not
      unqualified to judge, it is reputed to have reached the perfection
      of this kind of poetry."

The "many not unqualified" undoubtedly included the first critic of the age, Dryden. Lord Buckhurst
is also named as an admirer--pleasing anecdotes respecting the practical expression of his
admiration, and of Sir John Denham's, seem apocryphal.

While "Paradise Lost" was thus slowly upbearing its author to the highest heaven of fame, Milton
was achieving other titles to renown, one of which he deemed nothing inferior. We shall remember
Ellwood's hint that he might find something to say about Paradise Found, and the "muse" into
which it cast him. Ellwood does not tell us the date of this visit, and Phillips may be right
in believing that "Paradise Regained" was entirely composed after the publication of "Paradise
Lost"; but it seems unlikely that the conception should have slumbered so long in Milton's
mind, and the most probable date is between Michaelmas, 1665, and Lady-day, 1666. Phillips
records that Milton could never hear with patience "Paradise Regained" "censured to be much
inferior" to "Paradise Lost." "The most judicious," he adds, agreed with him, while allowing
that "the subject might not afford such variety of invention," which was probably all that
the injudicious meant. There is no external evidence of the date of his next and last poem,
"Samson Agonistes," but its development of Miltonic mannerisms would incline us to assign it
to the latest period possible. The poems were licensed by Milton's old friend, Thomas Tomkyns,
July 2, 1670, but did not appear until 1671. They were published in the same volume, but with
distinct title-pages and paginations; the publisher was John Starkey; the printer an anonymous
"J.M.," who was far from equalling Symmons in elegance and correctness.

"Paradise Regained" is in one point of view the confutation of a celebrated but eccentric definition
of poetry as a "criticism of life." If this were true it would be a greater work than "Paradise
Lost," which must be violently strained to admit a definition not wholly inapplicable to the
minor poem. If, again, Wordsworth and Coleridge are right in pronouncing "Paradise Regained"
the most perfect of Milton's works in point of execution, the proof is afforded that perfect
execution is not the chief test of poetic excellence. Whatever these great men may have propounded
in theory, it cannot be believed that they would not have rather written the first two books
of "Paradise Lost" than ten such poems as "Paradise Regained," and yet they affirm that Milton's
power is even more advantageously exhibited in the latter work than in the other. There can
be no solution except that greatness in poetry depends mainly upon the subject, and that the
subject of "Paradise Lost" is infinitely the finer. Perhaps this should not be. Perhaps to
"the visual nerve purged with euphrasy and rue" the spectacle of the human soul successfully
resisting supernatural temptation would be more impressive than the material sublimities of
"Paradise Lost," but ordinary vision sees otherwise. Satan "floating many a rood" on the sulphurous
lake, or "up to the fiery concave towering high," or confronting Death at the gate of Hell,
kindles the imagination with quite other fire than the sage circumspection and the meek fortitude
of the Son of God. "The reason," says Blake, "why Milton wrote in fetters when he wrote of
Angels and God, and at liberty when of Devils and Hell, is because he was a true Poet, and
of the Devil's party without knowing it." The passages in "Paradise Regained" which most nearly
approach the magnificence of "Paradise Lost," are those least closely connected with the proper
action of the poem, the episodes with which Milton's consummate art and opulent fancy have
veiled the bareness of his subject. The description of the Parthian military expedition; the
picture, equally gorgeous and accurate, of the Roman Empire at the zenith of its greatness;
the condensation into a single speech of all that has made Greece dear to humanity--these are
the shining peaks of the regained "Paradise," marvels of art and eloquence, yet, unlike "Paradise
Lost," beautiful rather than awful. The faults inherent in the theme cannot be imputed to the
poet. No human skill could make the second Adam as great an object of sympathy as the first:
it is enough, and it is wonderful, that spotless virtue should be so entirely exempt from formality
and dulness. The baffled Satan, beaten at his own weapons, is necessarily a much less interesting
personage than the heroic adventurer of "Paradise Lost." Milton has done what can be done by
softening Satan's reprobate mood with exquisite strokes of pathos:--

                        "Though I have lost
    Much lustre of my native brightness, lost
    To be beloved of God, I have not lost
    To love, at least contemplate and admire
    What I see excellent in good or fair,
    Or virtuous; I should so have lost all sense."

These words, though spoken with a deceitful intention, express a truth. Milton's Satan is a
long way from Goethe's Mephistopheles. Profound, too, is the pathos of--

   "I would be at the worst, worst is my best,
    My harbour, and my ultimate repose."

The general sobriety of the style of "Paradise Regained" is a fertile
theme for the critics. It is, indeed, carried to the verge of baldness;
frigidity, used by Pattison, is too strong a word. This does not seem to
be any token of a decay of poetical power. As writers advance in life
their characteristics usually grow upon them, and develop into
mannerisms. In "Paradise Regained," and yet more markedly in "Samson
Agonistes," Milton seems to have prided himself on showing how
independent he could be of the ordinary poetical stock-in-trade. Except
in his splendid episodical descriptions he seeks to impress by the massy
substance of his verse. It is a great proof of the essentially poetical
quality of his mind that though he thus often becomes jejune, he is
never prosaic. He is ever unmistakably the poet, even when his beauties
are rather those of the orator or the moralist.
    Deep versed in books and shallow in himself."

Perhaps, too, the sparse flowers of pure poetry are more exquisite from their contrast with
the general austerity:--

   "The field, all iron, cast a gleaming brown."

                                    "Morning fair
    Came forth with pilgrim steps in amice gray."

Poetic magic these, and Milton is still Milton.

"I have lately read his Samson, which has more of the antique spirit than any production of
any other modern poet. He is very great." Thus Goethe to Eckermann, in his old age. The period
of life is noticeable, for "Samson Agonistes" is an old man's poem as respects author and reader
alike. There is much to repel, little to attract a young reader; no wonder that Macaulay, fresh
from college, put it so far below "Comus," to which the more mature taste is disposed to equal
it. It is related to the earlier work as sculpture is to painting, but sculpture of the severest
school, all sinewy strength; studious, above all, of impressive truth. "Beyond these an ancient
fisherman and a rock are fashioned, a rugged rock, whereon with might and main the old man
drags a great net from his cast, as one that labours stoutly. Thou wouldest say that he is
fishing with all the might of his limbs, so big the sinews swell all about his neck, grey-haired
though he is, but his strength is as the strength of youth."[9] Behold here the Milton of "Samson
Agonistes," a work whose beauty is of metal rather than of marble, hard, bright, and receptive
of an ineffaceable die. The great fault is the frequent harshness of the style, principally
in the choruses, where some strophes are almost uncouth. In the blank verse speeches perfect
grace is often united to perfect dignity: as in the farewell of Dalila:--

   "Fame if not double-faced is double-mouthed,
    And with contrary blast proclaims most deeds;
    On both his wings, one black, the other white,
    Bears greatest names in his wild aery flights.
    My name perhaps among the circumcised,
    In Dan, in Judah, and the bordering tribes,
    To all posterity may stand defamed,
    With malediction mentioned, and the blot
    Of falsehood most unconjugal traduced.
    But in my country where I most desire,
    In Ecron, Gaza, Asdod, and in Gath,
    I shall be named among the famousest
    Of women, sung at solemn festivals,
    Living and dead recorded, who to save
    Her country from a fierce destroyer, chose
    Above the faith of wedlock-bands; my tomb
    With odours visited and annual flowers."

The scheme of "Samson Agonistes" is that of the Greek drama, the only one appropriate to an
action of such extreme simplicity, admitting so few personages, and these only as foils to
the hero. It is, but for its Miltonisms of style and autobiographic and political allusion,
just such a drama as Sophocles or Euripides would have written on the subject, and has all
that depth of patriotic and religious sentiment which made the Greek drama so inexpressibly
significant to Greeks. Consummate art is shown in the invention of the Philistine giant, Harapha,
who not only enriches the meagre action, and brings out strong features in the character of
Samson, but also prepares the reader for the catastrophe. We must say reader, for though the
drama might conceivably be acted with effect on a Court or University stage, the real living
theatre has been no place for it since the days of Greece. Milton confesses as much when in
his preface he assails "the poet's error of intermixing comic stuff with tragic sadness and
gravity; or introducing trivial and vulgar persons, which by all judicious hath been counted
absurd; and brought in without discretion, corruptly to gratify the people." In his view tragedy
should be eclectic; in Shakespeare's it should be all embracing. On the whole, "Samson Agonistes"
is a noble example of a style which we may hope will in no generation be entirely lacking to
our literature, but which must always be exotic, from its want of harmony with the more essential
characteristics of our tumultous, undisciplined, irrepressible national life.

In one point of view, however, "Samson Agonistes" deserves to be esteemed a national poem,
pregnant with a deeper allusiveness than has always been recognized. Samson's impersonation
of the author himself can escape no one. Old, blind, captive, helpless, mocked, decried, miserable
in the failure of all his ideals, upheld only by faith and his own unconquerable spirit, Milton
is the counterpart of his hero. Particular references to the circumstances of his life are
not wanting: his bitter self-condemnation for having chosen his first wife in the camp of the
enemy, and his surprise that near the close of an austere life he should be afflicted by the
malady appointed to chastise intemperance. But, as in the Hebrew prophets Israel sometimes
denotes a person, sometimes a nation, Samson seems no less the representative of the English
people in the age of Charles the Second. His heaviest burden is his remorse, a remorse which
could not weigh on Milton:--

              "I do acknowledge and confess
    That I this honour, I this pomp have brought
    To Dagon, and advanced his praises high
    Among the heathen round; to God have brought
    Dishonour, obloquy, and oped the mouths
    Of idolists and atheists; have brought scandal
    To Israel, diffidence of God, and doubt
    In feeble hearts, propense enough before
    To waver, to fall off, and join with idols;
    Which is my chief affliction, shame, and sorrow,
    The anguish of my soul, that suffers not
    My eye to harbour sleep, or thoughts to rest."

Milton might reproach himself for having taken a Philistine wife, but not with having suffered
her to shear him. But the same could not be said of the English nation, which had in his view
most foully apostatized from its pure creed, and most perfidiously betrayed the high commission
it had received from Heaven. "This extolled and magnified nation, regardless both of honour
won, or deliverances vouchsafed, to fall back, or rather to creep back, so poorly as it seems
the multitude would, to their once abjured and detested thraldom of kingship! To be ourselves
the slanderers of our own just and religious deeds! To verify all the bitter predictions of
our triumphing enemies, who will now think they wisely discerned and justly censured us and
all our actions as rash, rebellious, hypocritical, and impious!" These things, which Milton
refused to contemplate as possible when he wrote his "Ready Way to establish a Free Commonwealth,"
had actually come to pass. The English nation is to him the enslaved and erring Samson--a Samson,
however, yet to burst his bonds, and bring down ruin upon Philistia. "Samson Agonistes" is
thus a prophetic drama, the English counterpart of the world-drama of "Prometheus Bound."

Goethe says that our final impression of any one is derived from the last circumstances in
which we have beheld him. Let us, therefore, endeavour to behold Milton as he appeared about
the time of the publication of his last poems, to which period of his life the descriptions
we possess seem to apply. Richardson heard of his sitting habitually "in a grey coarse cloth
coat at the door of his house near Bunhill Fields, in warm sunny weather to enjoy the fresh
air"--a suggestive picture. What thoughts must have been travelling through his mind, undisturbed
by external things! How many of the passers knew that they flitted past the greatest glory
of the age of Newton, Locke, and Wren? For one who would reverence the author of "Paradise
Lost," there were probably twenty who would have been ready with a curse for the apologist
of the killing of the King. In-doors he was seen by Dr. Wright, in Richardson's time an aged
clergyman in Dorsetshire, who found him up one pair of stairs, in a room hung with rusty green
"sitting in an elbow chair, black clothes, and neat enough, pale but not cadaverous; his hands
and fingers gouty and with chalk-stones." Gout was the enemy of Milton's latter days; we have
seen that he had begun to suffer from it before he wrote "Samson Agonistes." Without it, he
said, he could find blindness tolerable. Yet even in the fit he would be cheerful, and would
sing. It is grievous to write that, about 1670, the departure of his daughters promoted the
comfort of his household. They were sent out to learn embroidery as a means of future support--a
proper step in itself, and one which would appear to have entailed considerable expense upon
Milton. But they might perfectly well have remained inmates of the family, and the inference
is that domestic discord had at length grown unbearable to all. Friends, or at least visitors,
were, on the other hand, more numerous than of late years. The most interesting were the "subtle,
cunning, and reserved" Earl of Anglesey, who must have "coveted Milton's society and converse"
very much if, as Phillips reports, he often came all the way to Bunhill Fields to enjoy it;
and Dryden, whose generous admiration does not seem to have been affected by Milton's over-hasty
sentence upon him as "a good rhymester, but no poet." One of Dryden's visits is famous in literary
history, when he came with the modest request that Milton would let him turn his epic into
an opera. "Aye," responded Milton, equal to the occasion, "tag my verses if you will"--to tag
being to put a shining metal point--compared in Milton's fancy to a rhyme--at the end of a
lace or cord. Dryden took him at his word, and in due time "Paradise Lost" had become an opera
under the title of "The State of Innocence and Fall of Man," which may also be interpreted
as referring to the condition of the poem before Dryden laid hands upon it and afterwards.
It is a puzzling performance altogether; one sees not any more than Sir Walter Scott could
see how a drama requiring paradisiacal costume could have been acted even in the age of Nell
Gwyn; and yet it is even more unlikely that Dryden should have written a play not intended
for the stage. The same contradiction prevails in the piece itself; it would not be unfair
to call it the most absurd burlesque ever written without burlesque intention; and yet it displays
such intellectual resources, such vigour, bustle, adroitness, and bright impudence, that admiration
almost counterweighs derision. Dryden could not have made such an exhibition of Milton and
himself twenty years afterwards, when he said that, much as he had always admired Milton, he
felt that he had not admired him half enough. The reverence which he felt even in 1674 for
"one of the greatest, most noble, and most sublime poems which either this age or nation has
produced," contrasts finely with the ordinary Restoration estimate of Milton conveyed in the
complimentary verses by Lee, prefixed to "The State of Innocence":--

   "To the dead bard your fame a little owes,
    For Milton did the wealthy mine disclose,
    And rudely cast what you could well dispose.
    He roughly drew, on an old-fashioned ground,
    A chaos, for no perfect world was found,
    Till through the heap your mighty genius shined;
    He was the golden ore, which you refined."

These later years also produced several little publications of Milton's own, mostly of manuscripts
long lying by him, now slightly revised and fitted for the press. Such were his miniature Latin
grammar, published in 1669; and his "Artis Logicae Plenior Institutio; or The Method of Ramus,"
1672. The first is insignificant; and the second even Professor Masson pronounces, "as a digest
of logic, disorderly and unedifying." Both apparently belong to his school-keeping days: the
little tract, "Of True Religion, Heresy, Schism, Toleration," (1673) is, on the other hand,
contemporary with a period of great public excitement, when Parliament (March, 1673) compelled
the king to revoke his edict of toleration autocratically promulgated in the preceding year,
and to assent to a severe Test Act against Roman Catholics. The good sense and good nature
which inclined Charles to toleration were unfortunately alloyed with less creditable motives.
Protestants justly suspected him of insidiously aiming at the re-establishment of Roman Catholicism,
and even the persecuted Nonconformists patriotically joined with High Churchmen to adjourn
their own deliverance until the country should be safe from the common enemy. The wisdom and
necessity of this course were abundantly evinced under the next reign, and while we must regret
that Milton contributed his superfluous aid to restrictions only defensible on the ground of
expediency, we must admit that he could not well avoid making Roman Catholics an exception
to the broad tolerance he claims for all denominations of Protestants. And, after all, has
not the Roman Catholic Church's notion of tolerance always been that which Macaulay imputes
to Southey, that everybody should tolerate her, and that she should tolerate nobody?

A more important work, though scarcely worthy of Milton's industry, was his "History of Britain"
(1670). This was a comparatively early labour, four of the six books having been written before
he entered upon the Latin Secretaryship, and two under the Commonwealth. From its own point
of view, this is a meritorious performance, making no pretensions to the character of a philosophical
history, but a clear, easy narrative, sometimes interrupted by sententious disquisition, of
transactions down to the Conquest. Like Grote, though not precisely for the same reason, Milton
hands down picturesque legendary matter as he finds it, and it is to those who would see English
history in its romantic aspect that, in these days of exact research, his work is chiefly to
be recommended. It is also memorable for what he never saw himself, the engraved portrait,
after Faithorne's crayon sketch.

      "No one," says Professor Masson, "can desire a more impressive and
      authentic portrait of Milton in his later life. The face is such
      as has been given to no other human being; it was and is uniquely
      Milton's. Underneath the broad forehead and arched temples there
      are the great rings of eye-socket, with the blind, unblemished
      eyes in them, drawn straight upon you by your voice, and
      speculating who and what you are; there is a severe composure in
      the beautiful oval of the whole countenance, disturbed only by the
      singular pouting of the rich mouth; and the entire expression is
      that of English intrepidity mixed with unutterable sorrow."

Milton's care to set his house in order extended to his poetical writings. In 1673 the poems
published in 1645, both English and Latin, appeared in a second edition, disclosing novas frondes
in one or two of Milton's earliest unprinted poems, and such of the sonnets as political considerations
did not exclude; and non sua poma in the Tractate of Education, curiously grafted on at the
end. An even more important publication was the second edition of "Paradise Lost" (1674) with
the original ten books for the first time divided into twelve as we now have them. Nor did
this exhaust the list of Milton's literary undertakings. He was desirous of giving to the world
his correspondence when Latin Secretary, and the "Treatise on Christian Doctrine" which had
employed so much of his thoughts at various periods of his life. The Government, though allowing
the publication of his familiar Latin correspondence (1674), would not tolerate the letters
he had written as secretary to the Commonwealth, and the "Treatise on Christian Doctrine" was
still less likely to propitiate the licenser. Holland was in that day the one secure asylum
of free thought, and thither, in 1675, the year following Milton's death, the manuscripts were
taken or sent by Daniel Skinner, a nephew of Cyriack's, to Daniel Elzevir, who agreed to publish
them. Before publication could take place, however, a clandestine but correct edition of the
State letters appeared in London, probably by the agency of Edward Phillips. Skinner, in his
vexation, appealed to the authorities to suppress this edition: they took the hint, and suppressed
his instead. Elzevir delivered up the manuscripts, which the Secretary of State pigeon-holed
until their existence was forgotten. At last, in 1823, Mr. Robert Lemon, rummaging in the State
Paper Office, came upon the identical parcel addressed by Elzevir to Daniel Skinner's father
which contained his son's transcript of the State Letters and the "Treatise on Christian Doctrine."
Times had changed, and the heretical work was edited and translated by George the Fourth's
favourite chaplain, and published at his Majesty's expense.

The "Treatise on Christian Doctrine" is by far the most remarkable of all Milton's later prose
publications, and would have exerted a great influence on opinion if it had appeared when the
author designed. Milton's name would have been a tower of strength to the liberal eighteenth-century
clergy inside and outside the Establishment. It should indeed have been sufficiently manifest
that "Paradise Lost" could not have been written by a Trinitarian or a Calvinist; but theological
partisanship is even slower than secular partisanship to see what it does not choose to see;
and Milton's Arianism was not generally admitted until it was here avouched under his own hand.
The general principle of the book is undoubting reliance on the authority of Scripture, with
which such an acquaintance is manifested as could only have been gained by years of intense
study. It is true that the doctrine of the inward light as the interpreter of Scripture is
asserted with equal conviction; but practically this illumination seems seldom to have guided
Milton to any sense but the most obvious. Hence, with the intrepid consistency that belongs
to him, he is not only an Arian, but a tolerator of polygamy, finding that practice nowhere
condemned in Scripture, but even recommended by respectable examples; an Anthropomorphist,
who takes the ascription of human passion to the Deity in the sense certainly intended by those
who made it; a believer in the materiality and natural mortality of the soul, and in the suspension
of consciousness between death and the resurrection. Where less fettered by the literal Word
he thinks boldly; unable to conceive creation out of nothing, he regards all existence as an
emanation from the Deity, thus entitling himself to the designation of Pantheist. He reiterates
his doctrine of divorce; and is as strong an Anti-Sabbatarian as Luther himself. On the Atonement
and Original Sin, however, he is entirely Evangelical; and he commends public worship so long
as it is not made a substitute for spiritual religion. Liturgies are evil, and tithes abominable.
His exposition of social duty tempers Puritan strictness with Cavalier high-breeding, and the
urbanity of a man of the world. Of his motives for publication and method of composition he says:--

      "It is with a friendly and benignant feeling towards mankind that
      I give as wide a circulation as possible to what I esteem my best
      and richest possession.... And whereas the greater part of those
      who have written most largely on these subjects have been wont to
      fill whole pages with explanations of their own opinions,
      thrusting into the margin the texts in support of their doctrines,
      I have chosen, on the contrary, to fill my pages even to
      redundance with quotations from Scripture, so that as little space
      as possible might be left for my own words, even when they arise
      from the context of revelation itself."

There is consequently little scope for eloquence in a treatise consisting to so large an extent
of quotations; but it is pervaded by a moral sublimity, more easily felt than expressed. Particular
opinions will be diversely judged; but if anything could increase our reverence for Milton
it would be that his last years should have been devoted to a labour so manifestly inspired
by disinterested benevolence and hazardous love of truth.

His life's work was now finished, and finished with entire success as far as depended upon
his own will and power. He had left nothing unwritten, nothing undone, nor was he ignorant
what manner of monument he had raised for himself, It was only the condition of the State that
afflicted him, and this, looking forward, he saw in more gloomy colours than it appears to
us who look back. Had he attained his father's age his apprehensions would have been dispelled
by the Revolution: but he had evidently for some time past been older in constitution than
in years. In July, 1674, he was anticipating death; but about the middle of October, "he was
very merry and seemed to be in good health of body." Early in November "the gout struck in,"
and he died on November 8th, late at night, "with so little pain that the time of his expiring
was not perceived by those in the room." On November 12th, "all his learned and great friends
in London, not without a concourse of the vulgar, accompanied his body to the church of St.
Giles, near Cripplegate, where he was buried in the chancel." In 1864, the church was restored
in honour of the great enemy of religious establishments. "The animosities die, but the humanities
live for ever."

       *       *       *       *       *

Milton's resources had been greatly impaired in his latter years by losses, and the expense
of providing for his daughters. He nevertheless left, exclusive of household goods, about £900,
which, by a nuncupative will made in July, 1674, he had wholly bequeathed to his wife. His
daughters, he told his brother Christopher (now a Roman Catholic, and on the road to become
one of James the Second's judges, but always on friendly terms with John), had been undutiful,
and he thought that he had done enough for them. They naturally thought otherwise, and threatened
litigation. The interrogatories administered on this occasion afford the best clue to the condition
of Milton's affairs and household. At length the dispute was compromised, the nuncupative will,
a kind of document always regarded with suspicion, was given up, and the widow received two-thirds
of the estate instead of the whole, probably the fairest settlement that could have been arrived
at. After residing some years in London she retired to Nantwich in her native county, where
divers glimpses reveal her as leading the decent existence of a poor but comfortable gentlewoman
as late as August or September, 1727. The inventory of her effects, amounting to £38 8s. 4d.,
is preserved, and includes: "Mr. Milton's pictures and coat of arms, valued at ten guineas;"
and "two Books of Paradise," valued at ten shillings. Of the daughters, Anne married "a master-builder,"
and died in childbirth some time before 1678; Mary was dead when Phillips wrote in 1694; and
Deborah survived until August 24, 1727, dying within a few days of her stepmother. She had
married Abraham Clarke, a weaver and mercer in Dublin, who took refuge in England during the
Irish troubles under James the Second, and carried on his business in Spitalfields. She had
several children by him, one of whom lived to receive, in 1750, the proceeds of a theatrical
benefit promoted by Bishop Newton and Samuel Johnson. Deborah herself was brought into notice
by Addison, and was visited by Professor Ward of Gresham College, who found her "bearing the
inconveniences of a low fortune with decency and prudence." Her last days were made comfortable
by the generosity of Princess Caroline and others: it is more pleasant still to know that her
affection for her father had revived. When shown Faithorne's crayon portrait (not the one engraved
in Milton's lifetime, but one exceedingly like it) she exclaimed, "in a transport, ''Tis my
dear father, I see him, 'tis him!' and then she put her hands to several parts of her face,
''Tis the very man, here! here!'"

       *       *       *       *       *

Milton's character is one of the things which "securus judicat orbis terrarum." On one point
only there seems to us, as we have frequently implied, to be room for modification. In the
popular conception of Milton the poet and the man are imperfectly combined. We allow his greatness
as a poet, but deny him the poetical temperament which alone could have enabled him to attain
it. He is looked upon as a great, good, reverend, austere, not very amiable, and not very sensitive
man. The author and the book are thus set at variance, and the attempt to conceive the character
as a whole results in confusion and inconsistency. To us, on the contrary, Milton, with all
his strength of will and regularity of life, seems as perfect a representative as any of his
compeers of the sensitiveness and impulsive passion of the poetical temperament. We appeal
to his remarkable dependence upon external prompting for his compositions; to the rapidity
of his work under excitement, and his long intervals of unproductiveness; to the heat and fury
of his polemics; to the simplicity with which, fortunately for us, he inscribes small particulars
of his own life side by side with weightiest utterances on Church and State; to the amazing
precipitancy of his marriage and its rupture; to his sudden pliability upon appeal to his generosity;
to his romantic self-sacrifice when his country demanded his eyes from him; above all, to his
splendid ideals of regenerated human life, such as poets alone either conceive or realize.
To overlook all this is to affirm that Milton wrote great poetry without being truly a poet.
One more remark may be added, though not required by thinking readers.

If we knew for certain which of the many causes that have enlisted noble minds in our age would
array Milton's spirit "in brief dust and light," supposing it returned to earth in this nineteenth
century, we should know which was the noblest of them all, but we should be as far as ever
from knowing a final and stereotyped Milton.

THE END.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: A famous Presbyterian tract of the day, so called from the combined initials of
the authors, one of whom was Milton's old instructor, Thomas Young. The "Remonstrant" to whom
Milton replied was Bishop Hall.]

[Footnote 2: This principle admitted of general application. For example, astrological books
were to be licensed by John Booker, who could by no means see his way to pass the prognostications
of his rival Lilly without "many impertinent obliterations," which made Lilly exceeding wroth.]

[Footnote 3: Two persons of this uncommon name are mentioned in the State Papers of Milton's
time--one a merchant who imported a cargo of timber; the other a leatherseller. The name also
occurs once in Pepys.]

[Footnote 4: Rossetti's sonnet, "On the Refusal of Aid between Nations," is an almost equally
remarkable instance.]

[Footnote 5: The same is recorded of Friedrich Hebbel, the most original of modern German dramatists.]

[Footnote 6: In his "Urim of Conscience," 1695. This curious book contains one of the first
English accounts of Buddha, whom the author calls Chacabout (Sakhya Buddha, apparently), and
of the "Christians of St. John" at Bassora.]

[Footnote 7: Ariosto and Marcellus Palingenius. Both these wrote before Ronsard, to whom the
thought is traced by Pattison, and Valvasone, to whom Hayley deems Milton indebted for it.]

[Footnote 8: We cannot agree with Mr. Edmundson that Milton was in any respect indebted to
Vondel's "Adam's Banishment," published in 1664.]

[Footnote 9: Theocritus, Idyll I.; Lang's translation.]

INDEX.

A.

Adam, not the hero of "Paradise Lost," 155

Adonais compared with Lycidas, 51

Aldersgate Street, Milton's home in, 67, 83

"Allegro, L.," 49-50

Andreini, his "Adamo" supposed to have suggested "Paradise Lost," 169

Anglesey, Earl of, visits Milton, 186

"Animadversions upon the Remonstrant," 72

"Apology for Smectymnuus," 72

"Arcades," 44

"Areopagitica, the," 78;
  argument of, 79-82

Arian opinions of Milton, 159, 191

Ariosto, Milton borrows from, 164

Artillery Walk, Milton's last house, 144

"At a Solemn Music," 33

Aubrey's biographical notices of Milton, 14, 15, 19, 24, 129, 144, 145

B.

Ball's Life of Preston, 23

Barbican, Milton's house in the, 96

Baroni, Leonora, admired by Milton, 62

Beddoes, T.L., on Milton and Vondel, 170

Benrath on Ochino's "Divine Tragedy," 171

Blake on Milton, 179

Bradshaw, Milton's praise of, 120

Bread Street, Milton born in, 16

Bridgewater, Lord, "Comus" written in his honour, 45

Bright, John, his admiration for Milton, 164.

British Museum, copy of Milton's poems in, 97;
  proclamation against Milton's books preserved in the, 139

Buckhurst, Lord, his admiration of "Paradise Lost," 177

C.

Caedmon, question of Milton's indebtedness to, 169

Calderon's "Magico Prodigioso" compared with "Comus," 54;
  with "Paradise Lost," 163

Cambridge in Milton's time, 22

Cardinal Barberini receives Milton, 62

Caroline, Princess, her kindness to Milton's daughter, 195

Chalfont St. Giles, Milton's residence at, 173

Chappell, W., Milton's college tutor, 24

Charles I., illegal government of, 30;
  expedition against the Scots, 67;
  execution of, 100;
  alleged authorship of "Eikon Basilike," 105-107;
  a bad king, but not a bad man, 110

Charles II., restoration of, 138;
  favour to Roman Catholics, 188

Christ's College, Milton at, 22

"Christian Doctrine," Milton's treatise on, 99, 190-193

"Civil Power in Ecclesiastical Causes," 132

Clarke, Deborah, Milton's youngest daughter;
  her reminiscences of her father, 195

Clarke, Mr. Hyde, his discoveries respecting Milton's ancestry, 14, 15

Clarke, Sir T., Milton's MSS. preserved by, 129

Coleridge, Milton compared with, 41;
  on Milton's taste for music, 63;
  on "Paradise Regained," 178

Comenius, educational method of, 76

Commonwealth, Milton's views of a free, 136

"Comus," production of, 38, 44, 46;
  criticism on, 53-55

"Considerations on the likeliest means to remove Hirelings out of the Church," 133

Copernican theory only partly adopted in "Paradise Lost," 158

Cosmogony of Milton, 157

Cromwell, Milton's character of, 121;
  Milton's advice to, 122

D.

Dante and Milton compared, 160

Daughters, character of Milton's, 142

Davis, Miss, Milton's suit to, 94

Deity, imperfect conception of, in "Paradise Lost," 154

Denham, Sir J., his admiration of "Paradise Lost," 177

Diodati, Milton's friendship with, 21;
  verses to, 25;
  letters to, 39, 41, 55;
  death of, 65;
  Milton's elegy on, 43, 67

"Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce," 79, 87-91

Dryden, on "Paradise Lost," 177;
  visits Milton, 187;
  dramatizes "Paradise Lost," 187

Du Moulin, Peter, author of "Regii Sanguinis Clamor ad Coelum," 118

E.

Edmundson, Mr. G., on Milton and Vondel, 170

Education, Milton's tract on, 75-77

"Eikon Basilike," authorship of, 105-107

"Eikonoklastes," Milton's reply to "Eikon Basilike," 108

Ellwood, Thomas, the Quaker, reads to Milton, 145;
  suggests "Paradise Regained," 175

Elzevir, Daniel, receives and gives up the MS. of "State Letters" and the "Treatise on Christian
Doctrine," 191

F.

Fairfax, Milton's character of, 120

Faithorne's portrait of Milton, 189

G.

Galileo, Milton's visit to, 61

Gauden, Bishop, author of "Eikon Basilike," 106

Gentleman's Magazine, account of Horton in, 36

Goethe on "Samson Agonistes," 181

Gill, Mr., Milton's master at St. Paul's school, 20

Gosse, Mr., on Milton and Vondel, 170

Greek, influence of, on Milton, 33, 39

Grotius, Hugo, Milton introduced to, 59;
  Milton's study of, 169

H.

Hartlib, S., Milton's tract on Education inspired by, 75

"History of Britain" by Milton, 99, 189

Holstenius, Lucas, librarian of the Vatican, 63

Homer and Shakespeare compared, 2;
  and compared with Milton, 160, 165, 167

Horton, Milton retires to, 33;
 poems written at, 44

Hunter, Rev. Joseph, on Milton's ancestors, 14

"Hymn on the Nativity," 32

I.

Italian sonnets by Milton, 64

Italy, Milton's journey to, 56-65

J.

Jansen, Cornelius, paints Milton's portrait, 19

Jeffrey, Sarah, Milton's mother, 16

Jewin Street, Milton's house in, 144

Johnson, Dr., on "Lycidas," 51;
  benefits Milton's granddaughter, 195

K.

Keats, Milton contrasted with, 41

King, Edward, "Lycidas," an elegy on his death, 48

L.

Landor, his Latin verse compared with Milton's, 43

Latin grammar by Milton, 188

Latin Secretaryship to the Commonwealth, Milton's appointment to, 102

Laud, Archbishop, Church government of, 30;
  Milton's veiled attack on, 49

Lawes, Henry, writes music to "Comus" and "Arcades," 44;
  edits "Comus," 47

Lee, Nathaniel, his verses on Milton, 188

Lemon, Mr. Robert, discovers MS. of "State Letters" and the "Treatise on Christian Doctrine," 191

Letters, Milton's official, 123

Logic, Milton's tract on, 188

Long Parliament, meeting of the, 68;
  licensing of books by, 78

Lucifer, Vondel's, 170

Ludlow Castle, "Comus" first performed at, 46

"Lycidas," origin of, 40, 48;
  analysis of, criticism on, 50, 52

M.

Manso, Marquis, poem on, 64

Marshall, Milton's portrait engraved by, 97

Marriage, Milton's views on, 94

Martineau, Harriet, reads "Paradise Lost" at seven years of age, 176

Mason, C., Milton's MSS. preserved by, 129

Masson, Prof. David, his monumental biography of Milton, 14;
  on Milton's ancestors, ib.;
  on Milton's college career, 23, 25;
  on the scenery of Horton, 35;
  on date of Divorce pamphlet, 87;
  on date of "Paradise Lost," 147;
  on money received for "Paradise Lost," 150;
  on Milton's cosmogony, 156;
  his description of Chalfont, 173;
  on Milton's portrait, 189

Milton, Christopher, John Milton's younger brother, birth of, 16;
  a Royalist, 91;
  a Roman Catholic, and one of James the Second's judges, 194

Milton, John, the elder, birth, 15;
  a scrivener by profession, ib.;
  musical compositions of, 18;
  retirement to Horton, 33;
  his noble confidence in his son, 37, 45;
  comes to live with his son, 91;
  dies, 98

Milton, John, birth, 11;
  genealogy of, 14;
  birthplace, 16;
  his father, 17;
  his education, 18-27;
  knowledge of Italian, 21;
  at Cambridge, 22-28;
  rusticated, 25;
  his degree, 1629; 25;
  will not enter the church, 29;
  early poems, 32;
  writes "Comus," 38;
  required incitement to write, 40, 48;
  correctness of his early poems, 42;
  his life at Horton, 44-55;
  his "Comus" and "Arcades," 44-48;
  his "Lycidas," 48;
  his mother's death, 55;
  goes to Italy, 56;
  his Italian friends, 59;
  visits Galileo, 61;
  Italian sonnets, 64;
  educates his nephews, 65;
  elegy to Diodati, 67;
  eighteen years' poetic silence, 68;
  takes part with the Commonwealth, 68;
  pamphlets on Church government, 72;
  tract on Education, 75;
  "Areopagitica," 79;
  Italian sonnet, 85;
  his first marriage, 86;
  deserted by his wife, his treatise on Divorce, 87;
  his pupils, 91;
  return of his wife, 96;
  his daughter born, 98;
  becomes Secretary for Foreign Tongues, 102;
  his State papers, 104;
  licenses pamphlets, 105;
  answers "Eikon Basilike," 108;
  answers Salmasius, 111;
  loses his sight, 114;
  death of his wife, 116;
  reply to Morus, 119;
  his official duties 122;
  his retirement and second marriage, 125;
  projected ninety-nine themes preparatory to "Paradise Lost," 129;
  wrote chiefly from autumn to spring, 132;
  his views of a republic, 136;
  escapes proscription at Restoration, 139;
  unhappy relations with his daughters, 141;
  third marriage, 143;
  writing "Paradise Lost," 147-150;
  analysis of his work, 152-172;
  compared with modern poets, 166;
  his indebtedness to earlier poets, 169;
  retires to Chalfont to escape the plague, 173;
  he suffers from the Great Fire, 175;
  his "Paradise Regained," 177;
  his "Samson Agonistes," 180-85;
  his later life, 186;
  his later tracts, 188, 190;
  his "History of Britain," 189;
  his Arian opinions, 192;
  his death, 193;
  his will, 194;
  his widow and daughters, 195;
  estimate of his character, 196

Milton, Richard, Milton's grandfather, 14, 15

Minshull, Elizabeth, Milton's third wife, 143;
  Milton's will in favour of, 194;
  death, ib.

Monk, General, character of, 135

Morland, Sir Samuel, on "Paradise Lost," 163

Morus, A., his controversy with Milton, 118-119

Myers, Mr. E., on Milton's views of marriage, 91

N.

Newton, Bishop, benefits Milton's granddaughter, 195

O.

Ochino, B., Milton's indebtedness to, 171

"On a fair Infant," 33

P.

Paget, Dr., Milton's physician, 143, 145

Palingenius, Marcellus, Milton borrows from, 164

Pamphlets, Milton's, 72, 75, 78, 79, 87, 99, 100, 108, 113, 132, 133, 136-8

"Paradise Lost," 128;
  four schemes for, 129;
  first conceived as drama, 130;
  manner of composition, 147;
  dates of, 147-150;
  critique of, 152-172;
  successive publications of, 176

"Paradise Regained," 177;
  criticism on, 178-180

"Passion of Christ," 32

Pattison, Mark, on "Lycidas," 51;
  on Milton's political career, 68;
  on fanaticism of Commonwealth, 133;
  on "Paradise Lost," 159;
  on Milton's diction, 165

"Penseroso, Il," 40, 49

Pepys, S., on Restoration, 135, 138

Petty France, Westminster, Milton's home in, 117

Philaras, Milton's Greek friend, 114

Phillips, E., Milton's brother-in-law, 22, 65

Phillips, Edward, Milton's nephew, on Milton's ancestry, 14;
  educated by his uncle, 65;
  his account of Milton's separation from his first wife, 87;
  of their reconciliation, 96;
  becomes a Royalist, 129;
  his attention to his uncle, 145;
  on "Paradise Lost," 176;
  on "Paradise Regained," 177

"Pilot of the Galilean Lake," 49

"Plymouth Brethren," resemblance of Milton's views to, 133

Powell, Mary, Milton marries, 86;
  she leaves him, 87;
  returns to him, 95;
  her family live with Milton, 98;
  her death, 116;
  probable bad influence on her daughters, 163

"Prelatical Episcopacy" pamphlet, 72

"Pro Populo" pamphlet, 113

Ptolemaic system followed by Milton in "Paradise Lost," 157

Puckering, Sir H., gave Milton's MSS. to the University of Cambridge, 129

R.

Reading, surrender of to Parliamentary army, 91

"Ready way to establish a Commonwealth," 136

"Reason of Church Government" pamphlet, 72

"Reformation touching Church Discipline" pamphlet, 72

Restoration, consequences to Milton of the, 138-141

Richardson, J., on Milton's later life, 186

Rome, Milton in, 62

Rump, burning of the, 136

S.

St. Bride's Churchyard, Milton lodges in, 65

St. Giles's Cripplegate, Milton's grave in, 194

St. Paul's school, Milton at, 19

Salmasius, Claudius, his character, 109;
  author of "Defensio Regia," 111;
  Milton's controversy with, 112, 114

Samson, Vondel's, 170

"Samson Agonistes," 141, 178;
  criticism on, 180-185

Satan, the hero of "Paradise Lost," 155

Shakespeare, 2;
  Milton's panegyric on, 33, 38;
  his view of tragedy compared with Milton's, 183

Shelley, on poetical inspiration, 41;
  his estimate of Milton, 156;
  on tragedy and comedy, 183;
  quoted, 17, 197

Skinner, Cyriack, his loan to Milton, 138

Skinner, David, endeavours to publish "State Letters" and
  "Treatise on Christian Doctrine," 191

Sonnet, "When the assault was intended to the City," 84;
  from the Italian, 85;
  on Vaudois Protestants, 124;
  to his second wife, 125;
  to Henry Lawrence, 126;
  inscribed on a window-pane, 175

"State Letters," 191

Stationers' Company and Milton, 92

Symmons, S., publisher of "Paradise Lost," 149, 175

Symonds, Mr. J.A., on metre of "Paradise Lost," 166

T.

Tennyson, on Milton's Eden, 162

"Tenure of Kings and Magistrates," 100

"Tina," by Antonio Malatesti, 68

Tomkyns, Thomas, licenses "Paradise Lost," 151;
  and the poems, 178

Tovey, Nathaniel, Milton's college tutor, 25

Treatise on Christian Doctrine, 190

U.

Ulster Protestants, Milton's subscription for, 83

V.

Vernon Lee, 57

Vondel, Milton's indebtedness to, 170

W.

Wakefield, E.G., on the champions of great causes, 135

Wood, Anthony, on Restoration, 133

Woodcock, Katherine, Milton's second wife, her marriage and death, 125

Wootton, Sir H., on "Comus," 47

Wordsworth, quoted, 27, 65;
  Milton contrasted with, 41;
  on "Paradise Regained," 178

Wright, Dr., reminiscence of his visit to Milton, 186

Y.

Young, Thomas, Milton's private tutor, 14

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

BY

JOHN P. ANDERSON

(British Museum).

       *       *       *       *       *

  I. WORKS.

 II. POETICAL WORKS.

III. PROSE WORKS.

 IV. SINGLE WORKS.

  V. SELECTIONS.

 VI. APPENDIX--
       Biography, Criticism, etc.
       Magazine Articles, etc.

VII. CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

I. WORKS.

The Works of John Milton in verse and prose, printed from the original editions, with a life
of the author by J. Mitford. 8 vols. London, 1851, 8vo.

II. POETICAL WORKS. London [January 2], 1645, 8vo.
      First collective edition, and the first work bearing Milton's
      name.

---- Poems, etc., upon several occasions, both English and Latin, etc., composed at several
times. With a small Tractate of Education to Mr. Hartlib. 2 parts. London, 1673, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. Containing Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained, Samson
Agonistes, and his poems on several occasions. Together with explanatory notes on each book
of the Paradise Lost [by P.H., i.e., Patrick Hume]. 5 parts. London, 1695, folio.

---- The Poetical Remains of Mr Milton, etc. By C. Gildon. London, 1698, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. 2 vols. London, 1707, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of Mr. John Milton. (Notes upon the twelve books of Paradise Lost,
by Mr. Addison. A small Tractate of Education to Mr. Hartlib.) 2 vols. London, 1720, 4to.

---- Another edition. 2 vols. London, 1721, 12mo.

---- Another edition. 2 vols. London, 1727, 8vo.

---- Another edition. 2 vols.

---- Another edition. 4 vols. London, 1746, 12mo.

---- Another edition, with notes of various authors, by Thomas Newton, bishop of Bristol. 3
vols. London, 1749-52, 4to.

---- The Poetical Works of Milton, etc. 2 vols. Edinburgh, 1762, 8vo.

---- Another edition, by Newton. 4 vols. London, 1763, 8vo.

---- Another edition. 4 vols. London, 1766, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of Milton. With prefatory characters of the several pieces; the life
of Milton, a glossary, etc. Edinburgh, 1767, 8vo.

---- Another edition. 4 vols, London, 1770, 8vo.

---- Another edition. 4 vols. London, 1773, 8vo.

---- Poems on several occasions. (British Poets, vol. iv.) Edinburgh, 1773, 8vo.

---- Another edition. 3 vols. London, 1775, 4to.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. From the text of Dr. Newton. (Bell's Poets of Great
Britain, vols. 35-38.) Edinburgh, 1776, 12mo.

---- The Poems of Milton. (Johnson's Works of the English Poets, vols. 3-5.) London, 1779, 8vo.

---- Poems upon several occasions, English, Italian, and Latin, with translations: viz., Lycidas,
L'Allegro, Il Penseroso, Arcades, Comus, Odes, Sonnets, Miscellanies, English Psalms, Elegiarum
Liber, Epigrammatum Liber, Sylvarum Liber. With notes critical and explanatory, and other illustrations,
by T. Warton. London, 1785, 8vo.

---- Second edition, with many alterations, and large additions. London, 1791, 8vo.

---- Poems. Another edition. (Johnson's Works of the English Poets, vols. 10-12.) London, 1790,
8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. To which is prefixed the life of the author. (Anderson's
Poets of Great Britain, vol. v.) Edinburgh, 1792, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With a life of the author, by W. Hayley [and engravings
after Westall]. 3 vols. London, 1794-97, folio.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, from the text of Dr. Newton. With the life of the author,
and a critique on Paradise Lost, by J. Addison. Cooke's edition. Embellished with engravings.
2 vols. London, 1795-96, 12mo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With the principal notes of various commentators. To
which are added illustrations, with some account of the life of Milton. By H.J. Todd. (Mr.
Addison's criticism on the Paradise Lost. Dr. Johnson's Remarks on Milton's Versification.
Dr. C. Burney's observations on the Greek verses of Milton.) 6 vols. London, 1801, 8vo.

---- Second edition, with considerable additions, and with a verbal index to the whole of Milton's
poetry, etc. 7 vols. London, 1809, 8vo.

---- Third edition, with other illustrations, etc. 6 vols. London, 1826, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With a preface, biographical and
critical, by J. Aikin. (Life of Milton by Dr. Johnson.) 3 vols. London,
1805, 8vo.
      Vols. xii.-xv. of an edition of "The Works of the English Poets.
      With preface by Dr. Johnson."

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With a preface, biographical and critical, by S. Johnson.
Re-edited, with new biographical and critical matter, by J. Aikin, M.D. 3 vols. London, 1806, 12mo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. 2 vols. London, 1806, 16mo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. 4 vols. (Park's Works of the British Poets, vols. i.-iii.)
London, 1808, 16mo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, with the life of the author. By S. Johnson. 3 vols.
London, 1809, 16mo.

---- Cowper's Milton. [Edited, with a life of Milton, by W. Hayley.
Together with "Adam: a sacred drama, translated from the Italian of G.B.
Andreini," by W. Cowper and W. Hayley.] 4 vols. Chichester, 1810, 8vo.
      The British Museum copy contains MS. notes by J. Mitford.

---- The Poems of John Milton. (Chalmers' Works of the English Poets, vol. vii.) London, 1810, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With the life of the author, by S. Johnson. (Select
British Poets.) London, 1810, 8vo.

---- Poems on several occasions. Lycidas, L'Allegro, Il Penseroso. London, 1817, 12mo.

---- Another edition, with Fenton's life and Dr. Johnson's criticism. 2
vols. London, 1818, 12mo.
      This forms part of "Walker's British Classics."

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, with a life of the author, by E. Sanford. (Works of
the British Poets, vols. vii., viii.) 2 vols. Philadelphia, 1819, 12mo.

---- The Poems of John Milton. (British Poets, vols. xvi.-xviii.) Chiswick, 1822, 12mo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, with notes of various authors, principally from the
editions of T. Newton, C. Dunster, and T. Warton; to which is prefixed Newton's life of Milton.
By E. Hawkins. 4 vols. Oxford, 1824, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost. A new edition, with notes, critical and explanatory,
by J.D. Williams. (Paradise Regained, Samson Agonistes, and Poems.) 2
vols. London, 1824, 12mo.
      The British Museum copy contains copious MS. notes by the editor.

---- Poetical Works, with Cowper's Translations of the Latin and Italian poems, and life of
Milton by his nephew, E. Philips, etc. 3 vols. London, 1826, 8vo.

---- Poems on several occasions. [With Westall's plates.] London, 1827, 16mo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. [Edited by J. Mitford, with life
of Milton by the editor.] 3 vols. London, 1832, 8vo.
      Part of the "Aldine Edition of the British Poets."

---- Another edition. 3 vols. London, 1866, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. Printed from the text of Todd and others. A new edition.
With the poet's life by E. Philips. Leipzig, 1834, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. Edited by Sir Egerton Brydges, Bart. [With a life of
Milton, by Sir E.B.] 6 vols. London, 1835, 8vo.

---- The Complete Poetical Works of John Milton: with explanatory notes and a life of the author,
by the Rev. H. Stebbing. To which is prefixed Dr. Channing's essay on the poetical genius of
Milton. London, 1839, 12mo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, J. Thomson, and E. Young. Edited by H.F. Cary. With
a biographical notice of each author. 3 pts. London, 1841, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, with a memoir and critical remarks on his genius and
writings, by J. Montgomery, and one hundred and twenty engravings from drawings by W. Harvey.
2 vols. London, 1843, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton: with life and notes. Edinburgh [1848], 24mo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. (Tauchnitz Collection of British Authors, vol. 194.)
Leipzig, 1850, 8vo.

---- Poetical Works. (Cabinet Edition of the British Poets, vol. i.) London, 1851, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, with notes and a life by the Rev. H. Stebbing, etc.
London, 1851, 12mo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. (Universal Library. Poetry, vol. i.) London, 1853, 8vo.

---- Milton's Poetical Works. With life, critical dissertation, and
notes by G. Gilfillan. 2 vols. Edinburgh, 1853, 8vo.
      One of a series entitled, "Library Edition of the British Poets."

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, with life. London, 1853, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton: with a life of the author, preliminary dissertations
on each poem, notes critical and explanatory, and a verbal index. Edited by C.D. Cleveland.
Philadelphia, 1853, 12mo.

---- The Complete Poetical Works of John Milton, with life. Edinburgh [1855], 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With a life by J. Mitford. 3 vols. Boston [U.S.], 1856,
8vo.

---- The Poems of John Milton, with notes by T. Keightley. 2 vols. New edition, etc. 2 vols.
(Bohn's Illustrated Library.) London, 1861, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With illustrations by C.H. Corbould and J. Gilbert.
London, 1864, 8vo.

---- English Poems by John Milton. Edited, with life, introduction, and selected notes, by
R.C. Browne. (Clarendon Press Series.) 2 vols. Oxford, 1870, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. Illustrated by F. Gilbert. [With life of Milton.] London,
1870, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. Edited, with a critical memoir,
by W.M. Rossetti. Illustrated by T. Seccombe. London [1871], 8vo.
      Reprinted in 1880 and 1881.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With life of the author, and an appendix containing
Addison's Critique upon the Paradise Lost, and Dr. Channing's Essay on the poetical genius
of Milton. With illustrations. London [1872], 8vo.

---- The Complete Poetical Works of Milton and Young. London [1872], 8vo.
      Part of "Blackwood's Universal Library of Standard Authors."

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. Reprinted from the Chandos Poets. With memoir, explanatory
notes, etc. (Chandos Classics.) London [1872], 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, printed from the original editions, with a life of
the author by A. Chalmers. London [1873], 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With life, critical dissertation, and explanatory notes
[by G. Gilfillan], The text edited by C.C. Clarke. 2 vols. London [1874], 8vo. [With portraits.]
3 vols. London, 1874, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With introductions and notes by
D. Masson. 2 vols. London, 1874, 8vo.
      Forming part of the "Golden Treasury Series."

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. Edited by Sir E. Brydges, Bart. Illustrated. A new
edition. London [1876], 8vo.

---- The Globe edition. The Poetical Works of John Milton. With introductions by D. Masson.
London, 1877, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. London [1878], 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. Edited, with Notes, explanatory and philological, by
J. Bradshaw. 2 vols. London, 1878, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of Milton and Marvell. With a memoir of each [that of Milton by D.
Masson. With notes to the poems of Milton by J. Mitford]. 4 vols. in 2.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. A new edition revised from the
text of T. Newton [by T.A.W. Buckley]. London [1880], 8vo.
      Part of the "Excelsior Series."

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With life, etc. Edinburgh
[1881], 8vo.
      Part of "The Landscape Series of Poets." With twelve
illustrations by R. Westall. London, 1881, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton; edited, with memoir, introductions, notes, and an essay
on Milton's English and Versification, by D. Masson. 3 vols. London, 1882, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. With biographical notice. New York [1884], 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, edited by J. Bradshaw. Second edition. 2 vols.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton, with biographical notice by J.
Bradshaw. London, 1887, 12mo.
      One of the "Canterbury Poets" Series.

---- Poetical Works. 2 vols. London, 1887, 8vo.

---- The Poetical Works of John Milton. Edited by J. Bradshaw. Paradise
Regained. Minor Poems. London, 1888, 8vo.
      One of the "Canterbury Poets" Series.

       *       *       *       *       *

Paradise Lost, etc. The life of John Milton. [By E. Fenton.] Paradise
Regained.--Poems upon several occasions.--Sonnets.--Of Education. 2
vols. London, 1751, 12mo.
      The copy in the British Museum Library contains MS. Notes by C.
      Lamb.

Milton's Italian Poems, translated and addressed to a gentleman of Italy. By Dr. Langhorne.
London, 1776, 4to.

Milton's Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained. With explanatory notes by J. Edmondston. London,
1854, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1855, 16mo.

Paradise Lost, etc. (Paradise Regained: and other Poems.--The Life of John Milton [by E. Fenton.])
2 vols. London, 1855, 32mo.

Paradise Regained. To which is added Samson Agonistes: and poems upon several occasions. A
new edition. By T. Newton. London, 1777, 4to.

Paradise Regained, Samson Agonistes, and the Minor English Poems.
London, 1886, 16mo.
      Part of the "Religious Tract Society Library."

Latin and Italian poems of Milton translated into English verse, and a fragment of a commentary
on Paradise Lost, by the late W. Cowper, with a preface and notes by the Editor (W. Hayley),
and notes of various authors. Chichester, 1808, 4to.

The Latin and Italian Poems of Milton. Translated into English verse by J.G. Strutt. London,
1814, 8vo.

Milton's Samson Agonistes and Lycidas. With illustrative notes by J. Hunter. London, 1870, 8vo.

Milton's Earlier Poems, including the translations by William Cowper of those written in Latin
and Italian. (Cassell's National Library, vol. xxxiv.) London, 1886, 8vo.

Miscellaneous Poems, Sonnets, and Psalms, etc. London [1886], 8vo.
      Part of "Ward, Lock, & Co.'s Popular Library of Literary
      Treasures."

The Minor Poems of John Milton, Edited, with notes, by W.J. Rolfe. New York, 1887, 8vo.

The Sonnets of John Milton. Edited by Mark Pattison. London, 1883, 8vo.
      Part of the "Parchment Library."

L'Allegro, Il Penseroso [revised by C. Jennens], ed il Moderato [by C.
Jennens]. Set to musick by Mr. Handel. London, 1740, 4to.
      The words only.

---- Another edition. London, 1740, 4to.

---- L'Allegro, Il Penseroso as set to musick. [London, 1750], 8vo.

---- L'Allegro ed Il Penseroso. [Arranged for music.] [London, 1779], 8vo.

L'Allegro ed Il Penseroso. And a song for St. Cecilia's day, by Dryden.
Set to musick by G.F. Handel. London, 1754, 4to.
      The words without the music.

L'Allegro ed Il Penseroso. Another edition. London [1754], 4to.

L'Allegro and Il Penseroso. Glasgow, 1751, 4to.

L'Allegro and Il Penseroso. With thirty illustrations designed expressly for the Art Union
of London [by G. Scharf, H. O'Neil, and others]. [London], 1848, 4to.

Milton's L'Allegro and Il Penseroso, illustrated with [Thirty] Etchings
on Steel by B. Foster. London, 1855, 8vo.
      There is a copy in the British Museum Library which contains the
      autographs and photographs of George Cruikshank and his wife.

L'Allegro and Il Penseroso, illustrated by engravings on steel after designs by Birket Foster.
London, 1860, 8vo.

L'Allegro, Il Penseroso, and other poems. Illustrated. Boston, 1877, 16mo.

Milton's L'Allegro and Il Penseroso. With notes by J. Aikin. Poona [1881], 8vo.

L'Allegro, Il Penseroso, and the Hymn on the Nativity. Illustrated. London, 1885, 8vo.

Milton's Comus, L'Allegro, and Il Penseroso. With numerous illustrative notes adapted for use
in training colleges. By John Hunter. London, 1864, 12mo.

---- Revised edition. London [1874], 8vo.

Comus, Lycidas, L'Allegro, Il Penseroso, and selected Sonnets. With notes by H.R. Huckin. London,
1871, 16mo.

Milton's Arcades and Sonnets. With notes by J. Hunter. London, 1880, 12mo.

The Lycidas and Epitaphium Damonis. Edited, with notes and introduction (including a reprint
of the rare Latin version of the Lycidas, by W. Hogg, 1694), by C.S. Jarram. London, 1874, 8vo.

---- Second edition, revised. London, 1881, 8vo.

III. PROSE WORKS.

The Works of Mr. John Milton. [In English Prose.] [London], 1697, fol.
      Not mentioned by Lowndes or Watt, but a copy is in the British
      Museum.

A Complete Collection of the Historical, Political, and Miscellaneous Works of John Milton,
both English and Latin. With some papers never before publish'd. To which is prefixed the life
of the author, etc. [By J. Toland]. 3 vols. Amsterdam [London], 1698, fol. 2 vols. London,
1738, fol.

The Works of John Milton, Historical, Political, and Miscellaneous. Now more correctly printed
from the originals than in any former edition, and many passages restored which have been hitherto
omitted. To which is prefixed an account of his life and writings (by T. Birch). (Edited by
T. Birch and R. Barron?). London, 1753, 8vo.

The Prose Works of John Milton; with a life of the author, interspersed with translations and
critical remarks, by C. Symmons. 7 vols. London, 1806, 8vo.

The Prose Works of John Milton. With an introductory review by R. Fletcher. London, 1833, 8vo.

Select Prose Works of Milton. Account of his studies. Apology for his early life and writings.
Tractate on Education. Areopagitica. Tenure of Kings. Eikonoclastes. Divisions of the Commonwealth.
Delineation of a Commonwealth. Mode of establishing a Commonwealth. Familiar Letters. With
a preliminary discourse and notes by J.A. St. John. (Masterpieces of English Prose Literature.)
2 vols. London, 1836, 8vo.

Extracts from the Prose Works of John Milton, containing the whole of his writings on the church
question. Now first published separately. Edinburgh, 1836, 12mo.

The Prose Works of John Milton. With a biographical introduction by R.W. Griswold. 2 vols.
New York, 1847, 8vo.

The Prose Works of John Milton, with a preface, preliminary remarks, and notes by J.A. St.
John. 5 vols. (Bohn's Standard Library.) London, 1848-53, 8vo.

Areopagitica, Letter on Education, Sonnets and Psalms. (Cassell's National Library, vol. cxxi.)
London, 1888, 8vo.

IV. SINGLE WORKS.

Accedence commenc't Grammar, supply'd with sufficient rules, for the use of such as are desirous
to attain the Latin tongue with little teaching and their own industry. London, 1669, 12mo.

An account of an original autograph sonnet by John Milton, contained in a copy of Mel Heliconium
written by Alexander Rosse, 1642, etc. London, 1859, 8vo.

L'Allegro, illustrated by the Etching Club. London, 1849, fol.

---- L'Allegro. [With illustrations engraved by W.J. Linton.] London, 1859, 8vo.

---- L'Allegro. [With illustrations.] London [1875], 8vo.
      Forming part of "The Choice Series."

---- Milton's L'Allegro. Edited, with interpretation, notes, and derivations, by F. Main. London,
1877, 8vo.

Animadversions upon the Remonstrant's defence [i.e., the defence of J. Hall, Bishop of Norwich?]
against Smectymnuus. London, 1641, 4to.

Apographum literarum serenissimi protectoris, etc. [Leyden?] 1656, 4to.

An apology against a Pamphlet [by J. Hall?] called A Modest Confutation of the Animadversions
upon the Remonstrant against Smectymnuus. London, 1641, 4to.

Areopagitica; a Speech of Mr. John Milton for the liberty of Unlicenc'd Printing, to the Parliament
of England. London, 1644, 4to.

---- Areopagitica Another edition. With a preface by another hand. London, 1738, 8vo.

---- Another edition, with prefatory remarks, copious notes, and excursive illustrations, by
T. Holt White, etc. London, 1819, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1772, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1780, 12mo.

---- Another edition, edited by James Losh. London, 1791, 8vo.

---- Areopagitica. (Occasional Essays, etc.) London, 1809, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London [1834], 8vo.

---- Areopagitica, etc. London, 1840, 8vo.
      Tracts for the People, No. 10.

---- English Reprints. John Milton. Areopagitica. Carefully edited by Edward Arber. London,
1868, 18mo.

---- A Modern Version of Milton's Areopagitica: with notes, appendix, and tables. By S. Lobb.
Calcutta, 1872, 12mo.

---- Milton, Areopagitica. Edited, with introduction and notes, by J.W. Hales. Oxford, 1874, 8vo.

---- Milton's Areopagitica. (Morley's Universal Library, vol. 43.) London, 1886, 8vo.

Autobiography of John Milton: or Milton's Life in his own words. Edited by J.J.G. Graham. London,
1872, 8vo.

A brief history of Moscovia; and other less known countries lying eastward of Russia as far
as Cathay. Gather'd from the writings of several eye-witnesses. London, 1682, 8vo.

The Cabinet-Council; containing the Chief Arts of Empire, and Mysteries of State discabineted.
By Sir Walter Raleigh, published by John Milton. London, 1658, 8vo.

---- Another edition.

Colasterion, a reply to a nameles [sic] answer against "The Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce."
By the former author, J[ohn] M[ilton]. [London] 1645, 4to.

A Common-Place Book of John Milton, and a Latin essay and Latin verses
presumed to be by Milton. Edited from the original MSS. in the
possession of Sir F.W. Graham, Bart., by A.J. Horwood. London, 1876, 4to.
      Printed for the Camden Society.

---- Revised edition. London, 1877, 4to.

A Maske [Comus] presented at Ludlow Castle, 1634: on Michaelmasse night,
before the right honorable John, Earle of Bridgewater, Viscount Brackly,
Lord President of Wales. [Edited by H. Lawes.] London, 1637, 4to.
      The first edition of Comus.

---- Comus: a mask, etc. Glasgow, 1747, 12mo.

---- Comus, a mask presented at Ludlow Castle, 1634, before the Earl of Bridgewater, with notes
critical and explanations by various commentators, and with preliminary illustrations; to which
is added a copy of the mask from a manuscript belonging to his Grace the Duke of Bridgewater;
by H.J. Todd. Canterbury, 1798, 8vo.

---- Comus, a mask; presented at Ludlow Castle, 1634. To which are added, L'Allegro and Il
Penseroso; and Mr. Warton's account of the origin of Comus. London, 1799, 8vo.

---- Comus: a mask. With annotations. London, 1808, 8vo.

---- Comus: a masque. (Cumberland's British Theatre, vol. 32.) London [1829], 12mo.

---- Comus. A mask with thirty illustrations by Pickersgill, B. Foster, H. Weir, etc. London,
1858, 4to.

---- Milton's Comus. Published under the direction of the Committee appointed by the Society
for Promoting Christian Knowledge. London [1860], 12mo.

---- Comus: a mask. With explanatory notes. Published under the direction of the Society for
Promoting Christian Knowledge. London [1861], 12mo.

---- Milton's Comus. With notes [by W. Wallace]. London, 1871, 16mo.

---- The Mask of Comus. Edited, with copious notes, by H.B. Sprague. New York, 1876, 8vo.

---- Milton's "Comus" annotated, with a glossary and notes. With three introductory essays
upon the masque proper, and upon the origin and history of the poem. By B.M. Ranking and D.F.
Ranking. London, 1878, 8vo.

---- Milton's Comus, with introduction and notes. London, 1884, 8vo.
      Forming part of "Chambers's Reprints of English Classics."

---- Milton's Comus. Edited, with introduction and notes, by A.M. Williams. London, 1888, 8vo.

---- ---- Songs, Duets, Choruses, etc., in Milton's Comus: a masque in two acts, with additions
from the author's poem "L'Allegro," and from Dryden's opera of "King Arthur." London [1842], 8vo.

Considerations touching the likeliest means to remove Hirelings out of the Church. Wherein
is also discourc'd of Tithes, Church-Fees, Church-Revenues, and whether any maintenance of
ministers can be settl'd by law. The author J. M[ilton]. London, 1659, 12mo.

---- Another edition. London, 1717, 12mo.

Another edition. London, 1723, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London [1834], 8vo.

A Declaration, or Letters Patents of the Election of this present King of Poland, John the
Third. Translated [by John Milton]. London, 1674, 4to.

---- The Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce. Now the second time revis'd and much augmented.
London, 1644, 4to.

---- Another edition. London, 1645, 4to.

Eikonoklastes, in answer to a book intitl'd Eikon Basilike, the Portrature of his Sacred Majesty
in his solitudes and sufferings. [By J. Gauden, Bishop of Exeter?] The author J[ohn] M[ilton].
London, 1649, 4to.

---- Eikonoklastes. Published now the second time, and much enlarg'd. London, 1650, 4to.

---- Eikonoklastes in answer to a book entitled Eikon Basilike, the Portraiture of his sacred
majesty King Charles the first in his solitudes and sufferings. Amsterdam, 1690, 8vo.

---- Eikonoklastes: in answer to a book intitled Eikon Basilikon, the portraiture of his sacred
majesty in his solitudes and sufferings. Now first published from the author's second edition,
printed in 1650; with many enlargements, by R. Baron. With a preface shewing the transcendent
excellency of Milton's prose works. To which is added an original Letter [from J. Wall] to
Milton, never before published. London, 1756, 4to.

---- A new edition, corrected by the late Reverend R. Baron. London, 1770, 8vo.

The History of Britain, that part especially now call'd England, from the first traditional
beginning, continu'd to the Norman Conquest. Collected out of the antientest and best authors
by John Milton. London, 1670, 4to.

The History of Britain. Another edition. London, 1677, 8vo.

---- Second edition. London, 1678, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1695, 8vo.

Il Penseroso. With designs by J.E.G.; etched by J.E.G. and H.P.G. on India paper. London, 1844,
folio.

---- Milton. Il Penseroso. (Clarendon Press Series.) Oxford, 1874, 8vo.

Joannis Miltoni Angli, Artis Logicæ Plenior Institutio, ad Petri Rami Methodum concinnata.
Adjecta est Praxis Analytica and P. Rami vita. Londini, 1672, 12mo. Cantabrigiæ, 1825, 4to.

---- Another edition. Brunsvigae, 1827, 8vo.

---- A Treatise of Christian Doctrine, compiled from the Holy Scriptures alone. Translated
from the original by C.R. Sumner. Cambridge, 1825, 4to.

---- John Milton's last thoughts on the Trinity. Extracted from his Treatise on Christian Doctrine.
London, 1828, 12mo.

---- New edition. London, 1859, 8vo.

Joannis Miltonii Angli Epistolarum familiarium liber unus: quibus accesserunt ejusdem jam olim
in collegio adolescentis prolusiones quædam oratoriæ. Londini, 1674, 12mo.

---- Milton's familiar letters. Translated from the Latin, with notes, by J. Hall. Philadelphia,
1829, 8vo.

Joannis Miltoni Angli pro populo Anglicano defensio, contra Claudii Anonymi, aliàs Salmasii,
defensionem regiam. Cum indice. Londini, 1651, 12mo.

---- Another edition. Londini, 1651, 4to.

---- Another edition. Londini, 1651, 12mo.

---- Editio emendatior. Londini, 1651, folio.

---- Another edition. Londini, 1652, 12mo.

---- Editio correctior et auctior, ab autore denuo recognita. Londini, 1658, 8vo.

---- A Defense of the People of England in answer to Salmasius's defence of the king. [Translated
from the Latin by Mr. Washington, of the Temple.] [London?] 1692, 8vo.

Joannis Miltoni pro populo Anglicano defensio secunda. Contra infamem libellum anonymum [by
P. Du Moulin] cui titulus, Regii sanguinis clamor ad coelum adversus parricidas Anglicanos.
Londini, 1654, 8vo.

---- Another edition. [With preface by G. Crantzius.] 2 parts. Hagæ Comitum, 1654, 12mo.

---- Milton's Second Defence of the People of England [translated by
Archdeacon Wrangham]. London, 1816, 8vo.
      Included in Scraps by the Rev. Francis Wrangham.
Londini, 1655, 8vo.

The judgement of Martin Bucer concerning divorce, now Englisht [by John Milton]. Wherein a
late book [by John Milton] restoring the doctrine and discipline of divorce is heer confirm'd,
etc. London, 1644, 4to.

A Letter written to a Gentleman in the Country, touching the dissolution of the late Parliament,
and the reasons thereof. [By John Milton, signed N. Ll.] London [May 26], 1653, 4to.

Literæ ab Olivario protectore ad sacram regiam majestem Sueciæ. [Leyden?] 1656, 4to.

Literæ Pseudo-Senatus Anglicani, Cromwellii, reliquorumque Perduellium nomine ac jussu conscriptæ
a Joanne Miltono. [London] 1676, 12mo.

---- Another edition. Literæ nomine Senatus Anglicani Cromwellii Richardique ad diversos in
Europa principes et Respublicas exaratæ a Joanne Miltono, quas nunc primum in Germania recudi
fecit J.G. Pritius. Lipsiæ Francofurti, 1690, 12mo.

---- Milton's Republican-Letters, or a collection of such as were written by Comand of the
late Commonwealth of England, etc. [Amsterdam?] 1682, 4to.

---- Letters of State written by Mr. John Milton to most of the
Sovereign princes and Republicks of Europe, from the year 1649 till
1659. To which is added an Account of his Life [by E. Phillips],
together with several of his poems, etc. London, 1694, 12mo.
      The "several poems" consist of four sonnets only.

---- Oliver Cromwell's Letters to Foreign Princes and States for strengthening and preserving
the Protestant Religion, etc. [Translated from the Latin of John Milton.] London, 1700, 4to.

Lycidas. [First edition.] (Justa Edouardo King naufrago, ab Amicis
moerentibus, etc.) 2 pts. Cantabrigiæ, 1638, 4to.
      Part II., "Obsequies to the Memorie of Mr. Edward King," has a
      distinct title-page and pagination, and contains the first edition
      of Lycidas.

---- Milton's Lycidas, with notes, critical, explanatory, and grammatical, by a Graduate. Melbourne,
1869, 8vo.

---- Lycidas. Reprinted from the first edition of 1638, and collated with the autograph copy
in the library of Trinity College, Cambridge. With a version in Latin hexameters. By F.A. Paley.
London, 1874, 8vo.

---- Milton. Lycidas. With introduction and notes. By T.D. Hall. Manchester [1876], 8vo.

---- Second edition. London [1880], 8vo.

---- Milton's Lycidas. Edited, with interpretation and notes, by F. Main, etc. London, 1876, 8vo.

---- Second edition. London, 1876, 8vo. [Edited by J. Tyrrell? or by Arthur, Earl of Anglesey?]
London, 1681, 4to.

Milton's Ode on the Morning of Christ's Nativity. Illustrated by eminent artists. London, 1868,
8vo.

Mr. John Milton's Satyre against hypocrites. Written whilst he was Latin secretary to Oliver
Cromwell. [By John Phillips?] London, 1710, 8vo.

Milton's unpublished Poem, corrected by J.E. Wall from a defective copy
found by Mr. Morley in the British Museum. Epitaph on a Rose Tree
confined in a Garden Tub. [London, 1873?] s. sh. 8vo.
      The original is in the King's Library, British Museum, and is
      written on the last leaf of a copy of "Poems of Mr. John Milton,"
      1646.

Observations upon the Articles of Peace with the Irish Rebels, on the Letter of Ormond to Col.
Jones, and the Representation of the Presbytery at Belfast. (Articles of Peace made and concluded
with the Irish Rebels, by James Earle of Ormond, etc.) London, 1649, 4to.

Of Education. To Master S. Hartlib. [London, 1644] 4to.

---- Milton's Tractate on Education. A facsimile reprint from the edition of 1673. Edited by
Oscar Browning. (Pitt Press Series.) Cambridge, 1883, 8vo.

Original Letters and Papers of State, addressed to Oliver Cromwell, concerning the affairs
of Great Britain from 1649 to 1658, found among the political collections of John Milton, published
from the originals. By John Nickolls. London, 1743, folio.

Of Prelatical Episcopacy, and whether it may be deduc'd from the Apostolical times by vertue
of those Testimonies which are alledg'd to that purpose in some late Treatises of James, Archbishop
of Armagh. London, 1641, 4to.

Of Reformation touching Church-Discipline in England: and the causes that hitherto have hindred
it. London, 1641, 4to.

Of True Religion, Hæresie, Schism, Toleration, and what best means may be used against the
growth of Popery. The author J[ohn] M[ilton]. London, 1673, 4to.

---- New edition, with preface by Bp. Burgess. London, 1826, 8vo.

Paradise Lost. A poem written in ten books by John Milton. Licensed and
entred according to order. London, 1667, 4to.
      First edition. Without argument or preface. There are nine
      distinct variations of the title and preliminary pages.

---- Paradise Lost. A poem in ten books. The author J. Milton. (The
argument. The verse.) London, 1668, 4to.
      The same edition as the preceding, with a new title-page, and with
      the addition of the argument.

---- Paradise Lost. A poem in ten books. The author John Milton. London,
1669, 4to.
      The same edition as the two preceding, with a new title-page and
      some slight alterations in the text. There is another copy in the
      British Museum which differs slightly. It has also the title-page
      dated 1668, and Marvell's commendatory verses in MS.

---- Paradise Lost. A poem, in twelve books. The author John Milton.
Second edition, revised and augmented by the same author. London,
1674, 8vo.
      To this edition are prefixed the commendatory verses of Barrow and
      Marvell. In another copy in the British Museum conjectural
      emendations from the quarto edition, 1749, and the octavo
      edition, 1674, corrected by the quarto edition, 1668, printed on
      two leaves, have been inserted.

---- The third edition. Revised and augmented by the same author. London, 1678, 8vo.

---- The fourth edition. Adorn'd with sculptures. London, 1688, folio.
      The first illustrated edition.

---- Another edition [with cuts]. London, 1692, folio.

---- Another edition. With copious and learned notes by P[atrick] H[ume]. London, 1695, folio.

---- Seventh edition. Adorn'd with sculptures. London, 1705, 8vo.

---- Eighth edition. Adorn'd with sculptures. 2 vols. London, 1707, 8vo.

---- Ninth edition. Adorn'd with sculptures. London, 1711, 12mo.
      The British Museum copy is said to be the only one on thick paper.

---- Tenth edition. With sculptures. London, 1719, 12mo.

---- Another edition. Dublin, 1724, 8vo.

---- Twelfth edition. To which is prefixed an account of his life [by E. Fenton]. London, 1725,
12mo.

---- Thirteenth edition. To which is prefixed an account of his life [by E. Fenton]. London,
1727, 8vo.

---- Fourteenth edition. To which is prefixed an account of his life [by E. Fenton]. London,
1730, 8vo.

---- New edition [with notes and proposed emendations] by R. Bentley.
London, 1732, 4to.
      One of the copies in the British Museum contains MS. notes by B.
      Stillingfleet, and another MS. notes by W. Cole. A third copy has
      inserted plates, a pencil sketch of Milton's house at Chalfont St.
      Giles, and a cutting from the Literary Gazette, May 29th, 1830,
      relating to Bentley.

---- Another edition. London, 1737, 8vo.

---- Another edition [with life by E. Fenton]. London, 1738, 8vo.

---- Another edition. (The life of John Milton by E. Fenton.) 2 vols. London, 1746, 1747, 12mo.

---- Another edition. Dublin, 1747, 8vo.

---- Another edition. Compared and revised by John Hawkey. Dublin, 1748, 8vo.

---- New edition. With notes of various authors, by T. Newton. (The life of Milton [by the
editor]. A critique on Paradise Lost. By Mr. Addison.) 2 vols. London, 1749, 4to.

---- Another edition. According to the author's last edition, in the year 1672. Glasgow, 1750, 8vo.

---- Second edition. With notes of various authors, by T. Newton. 2 vols.

Paradise Lost. Another edition. With notes, etymological, critical, classical, and explanatory;
collected from Dr. Bentley, Dr. Pearce, Richardson and Son, Addison, Paterson, Newton, and
other authors. By J. Marchant. London, 1751, 12mo.

---- Another edition. 2 vols. London, 1752, 51, 12mo.
      Vol. ii. is a duplicate of the corresponding vol. of the previous
      edition.

---- Another edition. [To which is prefixed the life of Milton, by E. Fenton.] London, 1753, 12mo.

---- Another edition. [With the life of Milton, by E. Fenton, and a glossary.] 2 vols. Paris,
1754, 16mo.

---- Another edition [in prose]. With historical, critical, and explanatory notes. From Raymond
de St. Maur. London, 1755, 8vo.

---- Another edition. From the text of T. Newton. Birmingham, 1758, 4to.

---- Another edition. From the text of T. Newton. Birmingham, 1759, 4to.

---- Another edition. (The life of Milton [by T. Newton]). London, 1760, 12mo.

---- Another edition. [With the life of John Milton, by E. Fenton. Illustrated.] London, 1761, 8vo.

---- Sixth edition. With notes of various authors, by T. Newton. 2 vols. London, 1763, 8vo.

---- Seventh edition. With notes of various authors, by T. Newton. 2 vols. London, 1770, 8vo.

---- New edition. To which is added the life of the author, by E. Fenton. Edinburgh, 1765, 12mo.

---- New edition. To which is added historical, philosophical, and explanatory notes, translated
from the French of Raymond de St. Maur. [Edited by John Wood, and preceded by a life of Milton
by E. Fenton.] Edinburgh, 1765, 12mo.

---- Another edition [in prose]. With historical, philosophical, critical, and explanatory
notes, from Raymond de St. Maur. Embellished with fourteen copper-plates. London, 1767, 8vo.

---- Second edition, adorned with copper-plates. London [1770], 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost, a poem. The author, John Milton. Glasgow, 1770,
folio.
      The copy in the British Museum was presented to George III. by the
      binder, J. Scott.

---- Paradise Lost. (The life of Milton, by Dr. Newton.) London, 1770, 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost, a poem in twelve books. 2 vols. Glasgow, 1771, 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost. (British Poets, vols. i.-ii.) Edinburgh, 1773, 8vo.

---- New edition. 2 vols. London, 1775, 12mo.

---- Another edition, from the text of T. Newton. London, 1777, 12mo.

---- Eighth edition, with notes of various authors, by T. Newton. 2 vols. London, 1778, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost. (The Life of Milton, by Dr. Newton.) London, 1778, 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost. With a biographical and critical account of the author and his writings
[by E. Fenton]. Kilmarnock, 1785, 12mo.

---- Another edition, illustrated with texts of Scripture by J. Gillies. [With life by E. Fenton.]
London, 1788, 12mo.

---- Ninth edition, with notes of various authors, by T. Newton [and a portrait of Milton],
2 vols. London, 1790, 8vo.

---- Another edition. Printed from the first and second editions collated. The original system
of orthography restored, the punctuation corrected and extended. With various readings; and
notes, chiefly rythmical. By Capel Lofft. [Book i.] Bury St. Edmunds, 1792, 4to.

---- Paradise Lost. Books i.-iv. [London, 1792-95], 4to.
      The British Museum copy contains the first four books only. With
      illustrations after Stothard, engraved by Bartolozzi. Without
      title-page.

---- Milton's Paradise Lost, illustrated with texts of Scripture by J. Gillies. Second edition.
[With life by E. Fenton.] London, 1793, 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost; a poem, in twelve books. [With engravings.] London, 1794, 4to.

---- Milton's Paradise Lost. (The Life of John Milton [by E. Fenton]. Criticism on Paradise
Lost by S. Johnson.) London, 1795, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost. Printed from the text of Tonson's edition of 1711. With notes and the life
of the author by T. Newton and others. [Edited by C.M.] 3 vols. London, 1795, 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost, with notes selected from Newton and others. With a critical dissertation
on the poetical works of Milton by S. Johnson. 2 vols. London, 1796, 8vo.

---- Milton's Paradise Lost, with a life of the author [by J. Evans]. To which is prefixed
the celebrated critique by S. Johnson. London, 1799, 8vo.

---- Milton's Paradise Lost. A new edition. Adorned with plates [engraved chiefly by F. Bartolozzi,
from designs by W. Hamilton and H. Fuseli.] 2 vols. London, 1802, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost, with a life of the author [by E. Fenton], and a critique on the poem [by
S. Johnson]. A new edition. London, 1802, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost. A new edition. London, 1803, 12mo. [Life of Milton, by E. Fenton.] London,
1804, 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost. A poem. Printed from the text of Tonson's correct edition of 1711. London,
1804, 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost. Printed from the text of Tonson's edition of 1711. A new edition, with
plates, etc. London, 1808, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost, a poem, etc. (The life of Milton [by E. Fenton].) London, 1805, 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost, a poem. (The life of Milton [by E. Fenton].) London, 1812, 16mo.

---- Another edition. To which is prefixed the life of the author [by E. Fenton]. London, 1813,
12mo.

---- Paradise Lost, a poem in twelve books. [With the life of John Milton by E. Fenton, and
"A critique upon the Paradise Lost" by J. Addison.] Romsey, 1816, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost. To which are prefixed the life of the author [by E. Fenton]; and a criticism
on the poem by S. Johnson. London, 1817, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost. London, 1817, 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost. [With engravings from the designs of R. Westall.] 2 vols. London, 1817, 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost. To which is prefixed a life of the author [by E. Fenton].

---- Paradise Lost. [With a life of the author, by E. Fenton.] Boston, 1820, 12mo. London,
1821, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost, etc. 2 vols. London, 1825, 12mo.

---- The Paradise Lost of Milton, with illustrations designed and engraved by J. Martin. 2
vols. London, 1827, folio.

---- Paradise Lost, etc. [With the life of J. Milton, by E. Fenton.] London [1830], 16mo.

---- Paradise Lost. With a memoir of the author [by E. Fenton]. New edition. London, 1833, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost: with copious notes, also a memoir of his life by J. Prendeville. London,
1840, 8vo.

---- [Paradise Lost. Edited by A.J. Ellis? Phonetically printed.] [London], 1846, 16mo.

---- The Paradise Lost, with notes explanatory and critical. Edited by J.R. Boyd. New York,
1851, 12mo.

---- Milton's Paradise Lost, with notes, critical and explanatory, original and selected, by
J.R. Major. London, 1853, 8vo.

---- Milton's Paradise Lost.

---- Milton's Paradise Lost. In twelve books. London, 1861, 16mo.
      One of "Bell & Daldy's Pocket Volumes."

---- Paradise Lost. To which is prefixed a life of the author, and Dr. Channing's Essay on
the poetical genius of Milton. London, 1862, 12mo.

---- Milton's Paradise Lost. Illustrated by Gustave Doré. Edited, with
notes and a life of Milton, by R. Vaughan. London [1866], folio.
      A re-issue appeared in 1871-72.

---- Paradise Lost, in ten books. The text exactly reproduced from the first edition of 1667.
With an appendix containing the additions made in later issues and a monograph on the original
publication of the poem. [By R.H.S., i.e., R.H. Shepherd?] London, 1873, 4to.

---- Paradise Lost, as originally published, being a fac-simile of the first edition. With
an introduction by D. Masson. London, 1877 [1876], 4to.

---- Paradise Lost. Illustrated by thirty-eight designs in outline by F.
Thrupp. [Containing only fragments of the text.] London, 1879, obl.
folio.
      Re-issued in 1888.

---- Paradise Lost. The text emended, with notes and preface by M. Hull. London, 1884, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost. London, 1887, 16 mo.
      Part of "Routledge's Pocket Library."

---- Paradise Lost. (Cassell's National Library, vols. 162, 163.) London, 1889, 8vo.

---- ---- The Story of our first Parents; selected from Milton's Paradise Lost: for the use
of young persons. By Mrs. Siddons. London, 1822, 8vo.

Paradise Regain'd. A Poem in four books. To which is added Samson Agonistes. The author, J.
Milton. 2 pts. London, 1671, 8vo.

---- Paradise Regain'd. To which is added Samson Agonistes. London, 1680, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1688, folio.

---- Paradise Regained. Samson Agonistes, and the smaller poems. Sixth edition. London, 1695,
folio.

---- Paradise Regain'd. To which is added Samson Agonistes, and poems upon several occasions,
compos'd at several times. Fourth edition. London, 1705, 8vo.

---- Paradise Regain'd. To which is added Samson Agonistes, etc. The fifth edition. London,
1707, 8vo.

---- Paradise Regain'd. To which is added Samson Agonistes, etc. Fifth edition. Adorned with
cuts. London, 1713, 12mo.

---- Sixth edition, corrected. London, 1725, 8vo.

---- Seventh edition, corrected. 3 pts. London, 1727, 8vo.

---- Seventh edition, corrected. London, 1730, 12mo.

---- Eighth edition. London, 1743, 8vo.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. London, 1747, 12mo.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. Glasgow, 1747, 12mo.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. A new edition. With notes of various authors, by T. Newton. London,
1752, 4to.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. Glasgow, 1752, 12mo.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. The second edition, with notes of various authors, by T. Newton.
2 vols. London, 1753, 8vo.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. London, 1753, 12mo.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. London, 1756, 12mo.

---- Paradise Regained, etc. Birmingham, 1758, 4to.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. London, 1760, 12mo.

---- Paradise Regain'd (British Poets, vol. iii.). Edinburgh, 1773, 8vo.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. 2 vols. Glasgow, 1772, 12mo.

---- A new edition. 2 vols. London, 1773, 8vo.

---- A new edition. By T. Newton. London, 1777, 4to.

---- A new edition, with notes of various authors, by T. Newton. 2 vols. London, 1785, 8vo.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. London, 1779, 12mo.

---- Paradise Regain'd, etc. Alnwick, 1793, 12mo.

---- A new edition, with notes of various authors, by C. Dunster. London. 1795. 4to.

---- Another edition. London [1800], 4to.

---- Milton's Paradise Regained; with select notes subjoined: to which is added a complete
collection of his Miscellaneous Poems, both English and Latin. London, 1796, 8vo.

---- Paradise Regained. With select notes subjoined, etc. London, 1817, 8vo.

---- Paradise Regained, Samson Agonistes, Comus, and Arcades. London, 1817, 12mo.

---- Paradise Regained, and other poems. London, 1823, 16mo.

---- Paradise Regained, Samson Agonistes, Comus, and Arcades. [With Westall's plates.] London,
1827, 16mo.

---- Paradise Regained; and other poems. London, 1832, 16mo.

---- Milton's Paradise Regained, and other poems. London, 1861, 16mo.
      One of "Bell & Daldy's Pocket Volumes."

The readie and easie way to establish a free Commonwealth, and the excellence thereof, compar'd
with the inconveniences and dangers of re-admitting Kingship in this nation. The author J[ohn]
M[ilton]. London, 1660, 4to.

The Reason of Church-Government urg'd against Prelaty. In two books. London, 1641, 4to.

Samson Agonistes. London, 1688, folio.
      First appeared with the Paradise Regained in 1671.

---- Samson Agonistes. London, 1695, folio.
      Reprinted from the preceding edition.

---- Samson Agonistes. (Bell's British Theatre, vol. 34.) London, 1797, 8vo.

---- Samson Agonistes. London [1869], 8vo.

---- Milton. Samson Agonistes. Edited by John Churton Collins. (Clarendon Press Series.) Oxford,
1883, 8vo.

Scriptum Dom. Protectoris contra Hispanos. [By John Milton.] Londini, 1655, 4to.

---- A Manifesto of the Lord Protector against the Depredations of the Spaniards. Written in
Latin by John Milton. London, 1738, 8vo.

---- A true Copy of Oliver Cromwell's Manifesto against Spain, dated October 26, 1655 [written
by John Milton]. London, 1741, 4to. London, 1649, 4to.

---- Another edition, with additions. London, 1650, 4to.

Tetrachordon: expositions upon the foure chief places in Scripture which
treat of mariage, or nullities in manage, wherein the doctrine and
discipline of divorce, as was lately publish'd, is confirm'd. By the
former author J. M[ilton]. London, 1645 [1644 O.S.], 4to.
      The author's name appears in full at the end of the address "To
      the Parliament."

A Treatise on Civil Power in Ecclesiastical Causes; shewing that it is not lawfull for any
power on earth to compell in matter of religion. The author J[ohn] M[ilton]. London, 1659, 12mo.

---- A Treatise of Civil Power in Ecclesiastical Causes. First printed anno 1659. London, reprinted
1790, 8vo.

---- A Treatise on Civil Power in Ecclesiastical Causes, etc. London,
1839, 8vo.
      Tracts for the People, No. I.

---- On the Civil Power in Ecclesiastical Causes; and on the likeliest
means to remove Hirelings out of the Church. London, 1851, 8vo.
      Part XI. of "Buried Treasures."

V. SELECTIONS.

The Beauties of Milton, Thomson, and Young. Dublin, 1783, 12mo.

The Beauties of Milton; consisting of selections from his poetry and prose, by A. Howard. London
[1834], 12mo.

The Poetry of Milton's Prose; selected from his various writings; with notes, and an introductory
essay [by C.]. London, 1827, 12mo.

Readings from Milton. With an introduction by Bishop H.W. Warren.
Boston, 1886, 8vo.
      Part of the "Chatauqua Library--Garnet Series."

Selected Prose Writings of John Milton, with an introductory essay by E.
Myers. London, 1883, 8vo.
      Fifty copies only printed.

Selections from the Prose Writings of John Milton. Edited, with memoir, notes, and analyses,
by S. Manning. London, 1862, 8vo.

Selections from the Prose Works of John Milton. With critical remarks and elucidations. Edited
by J.J.G. Graham. London, 1870, 8vo.

Shakespeare and Milton Reader; being scenes and other extracts from the writings of Shakespeare
and Milton, etc. London [1883], 8vo.

VI. APPENDIX.

BIOGRAPHY, CRITICISM, ETC.

Acton, Rev. Henry.--Religious opinions and examples of Milton, Locke, and Newton. A lecture,
with notes. London, 1833, 8vo.

Addison, Rt. Hon. Joseph.--Notes upon the twelve books of Paradise Lost.
Collected from the Spectator. London, 1719, 12mo.
      Appeared originally in the Spectator, Dec. 31, 1711--May 3,
      1712.

Ademollo, A.--La Leonora di Milton e di Clemente IX. Milano [1886], 8vo.

Andrews, Samuel.--Our Great Writers; or, Popular chapters on some
leading authors. London, 1884, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 84-112.

Arnold, Matthew.--Mixed Essays. London, 1879, 8vo.
      A French Critic on Milton, pp. 237-273.

---- Essays in Criticism. Second Series. London, 1888, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 56-68.

Bagehot, Walter.--Literary Studies. 2 vols. London, 1879, 8vo.
      John Milton, vol. i., pp. 173-220.

---- Third edition. 2 vols. London, 1884, 8vo.

Balfour, Clara Lucas.--Sketches of English Literature, etc. London,
1852, 8vo.
      Milton and his Literary Contemporaries, pp. 151-173.

Barron, William.--Lectures on Belles Lettres and Logic. 2 vols. London,
1806, 8vo.
      Milton, vol. ii., pp. 281-300.

Baumgarten, Dr.--John Milton und das Verlorene Paradies. Coburg [1875], 4to.

Bayne, Peter.--The Chief Actors in the Puritan Revolution. London,
1878, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 297-346.

Bentley, Richard.--Dr. Bentley's emendations on the twelve books of Milton's Paradise Lost.
London, 1732, 12mo.

Bickersteth, E.H.--Milton's Paradise Lost. (The St. James's Lectures, Second Series.) London,
1876, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1877, 8vo.

Birrell, Augustine.--Obiter Dicta. Second series. London, 1887, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 1-50.

Blackburne, Francis.--Remarks on Johnson's Life of Milton. To which are added Milton's Tractate
of Education and Areopagitica. London, 1780, 16mo.

Blair, Hugh.--Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Lettres, etc. 2 vols.
London, 1783, 4to.
      Paradise Lost, vol. ii., pp. 471-476.

Bodmer, J. Jacob.--J.J. Bodmer's critische Abhandlung, von dem Wunderbaren in der Poesie in
einer Vertheidigung des Gedichtes J. Milton's von dem verlohrnen Paradiese, etc. Zürich, 1740, 8vo.

Bradburn, Eliza W.--The Story of Paradise Lost, for children. Portland, 1830, 16mo.

Brooke, Stopford A.--Milton. [An account of his life and works.]
London, 1879, 8vo.
      Part of the series entitled Classical Writers, ed. J.R. Green.

Bruce, Archibald.--A critical account of the life, character, and discourses of Mr. Alexander
Morus, in which the attack made upon him in the writings of Milton is particularly considered.
Edinburgh, 1813, 8vo.

Brydges, Sir Samuel Egerton.--The Life of John Milton. London [1835], 8vo.

Bulwer Lytton, E.--The Siamese Twins, etc. London, 1831, 8vo.
      Milton, a poem, pp. 315-362.

Burney, Charles.--Remarks on the Greek Verses of Milton. [London, 1790], 8vo.

Buckland, Anna.--The Story of English Literature. London, 1882, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 230-296.

Callander, John.--Letter and Report respecting the Unpublished Commentary on Milton's Paradise
Lost, by the late John Callander, of Craigforth, Esq., in the possession of the Society. (Archæologia
Scotica, vol. iii., 1831, pp. 83-91.) Edinburgh, 1831, 4to.

Camerini, Eugenio.--Profili Letterari. Firenze, 1870, 8vo.
      Milton e l'Italia, pp. 264-274.

Cann, Miss Christian.--A scriptural and allegorical glossary to Milton's Paradise Lost. London
[1828], 8vo.

Carpenter, William.--The Life and Times of John Milton. London [1836], 8vo.

Channing, William Ellery.--Remarks on the Character and Writings of John Milton; occasioned
by the publication of his lately discovered "Treatise on Christian Doctrine." From the Christian
Examiner, vol. iii., No. 1. Boston, 1826, 8vo.

Charles I.--By the King. A Proclamation for calling in and suppressing of two books written
by John Milton: the one Intituled Johannis Miltoni Angli pro Populo Anglicano defensio, etc.,
and the other, The Pourtraicture of his Sacred Majesty, etc. London, 1660, s. sh. fol.

---- The Life and Reigne of King Charls; or, the Pseudo-Martyr
discovered, etc. London, 1651, 8vo.
      In the Bodleian Catalogue this work is erroneously stated to be by
      John Milton.

Chassang, A., and Marcou, F.L.--Les Chefs-d'Oeuvre Épiques de tous les
peuples. Paris, 1879, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 279-297.

Clarke, Samuel.--Some reflections on that part of a book called Amyntor, or the defence of
Milton's life, which relates to the writings of the primitive fathers, etc. (Letter to Mr.
Dodwell, etc., pp. 451-475.) London, 1781, 8vo.

Cleveland, C.D.--A Complete Concordance to the Poetical Works of John Milton. London, 1867, 8vo.

Coleridge, Samuel Taylor.--Seven lectures on Shakespeare and Milton, etc. London, 1856, 8vo.

Darby, Samuel.--A letter to T. Warton, on his late edition of Milton's Juvenile Poems [entitled
"Poems upon several occasions, English, Italian, and Latin."] London, 1785, 8vo.

Dawson, George.--Biographical Lectures. London, 1886, 8vo.
      John Milton, pp. 82-88.

De Morgan, J.--John Milton considered as a Politician. (Men of the Commonwealth, No. 1.) [London,
1875], 16mo.

Dennis, John.--Heroes of Literature. English Poets. London, 1883, 8vo.
      John Milton, pp. 114-147.

De Quincey, T.--Works. 16 vols. London, 1853-60, 8vo.
      Milton, vol. vi., pp. 311-325; Life of Milton, vol. x., pp. 79-98.

Des Essarts, E.--De Veterum poetarum tum Græciæ tum Romæ apud Miltonem imitatione thesim proponebat
E. Des Essarts. Parisiis, 1871, 8vo.

Diderot, Denis.--An Essay on Blindness, etc. Interspersed with several anecdotes of Sanderson,
Milton, and others. Translated from the French. London [1750], 12mo.

Dobson, W.T.--The Classic Poets, their lives and their times, etc.
London, 1879, 8vo.
      Milton's Paradise Lost, pp. 394-446; Paradise Regained,
      pp. 446-452.

Donoughue, Edward Jones.--Milton: a lecture. London, 1843, 8vo.

Douglas, John.--Milton vindicated from the charge of plagiarism brought against him by Mr.
Lauder, etc. London, 1751, 8vo.

---- Milton no plagiary; or, a detection of the forgeries contained in Lauder's essay, etc.
Second edition. London, 1756, 8vo.

Dowden, Edward.--Transcripts and Studies. London, 1888, 8vo.
      The Idealism of Milton, pp. 454-473.

Dowling, William.--Poets and Statesmen; their homes and haunts in the
neighbourhood of Eton and Windsor. London, 1857, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 1-39.

Dryden, John.--The State of Innocence, and Fall of Man; an opera, etc. London, 1677, 4to. [A
reply to Milton's "Defensio pro populo Anglicano."] Hagæ Comitum, 1652, 4to.

---- Editio secunda. Hagæ Comitum, 1661, 12mo.

Dunster, C.--Considerations on Milton's early reading, and the prima stamina of his Paradise
Lost, etc. London, 1800, 8vo.

Edmonds, Cyrus R.--John Milton; a biography. Especially designed to exhibit the ecclesiastical
principles of that illustrious man. London, 1851, 8vo.

Edmundson, George.--Milton and Vondel. A curiosity of literature. London, 1885, 8vo.

Ellwood, Thomas.--Reflections of [Thomas Ellwood] with John Milton (Arber's English Garner,
vol. iii., pp. 473-486). London, 1880, 8vo.

English Poets.--Cursory remarks on some of the ancient English poets, particularly Milton.
[By P. Neve.] London, 1789, 8vo.

Epigoniad.--A critical essay on the Epigoniad, wherein the author's abuse of Milton is examined.
Edinburgh, 1757, 8vo.

Eyre, Charles.--The Fall of Adam, from Milton's Paradise Lost. London [1852], 8vo.

Filmer, Sir Robert.--Observations concerning the originall of Government upon Mr. Hobs Leviathan,
Mr. Milton against Salmasius, H. Grotius De Jure Belli. London, 1652, 4to.

---- The Free-holders grand inquest, etc. (Reflections concerning the Original of Government
upon Mr. Milton against Salmasius.) London, 1679, 8vo.

Flatters, J.J.--The Paradise Lost of Milton, translated into fifty-four
designs, by J.J. Flatters, sculptor. London, 1843, folio.
      Without letterpress.

Fry, Alfred A.--A lecture on the writings, prose and poetic, and the character, public and
personal, of John Milton. London, 1838, 8vo.

Geffroy, Mathieu A.--Étude sur les pamphlets politiques et religieux de Milton. Paris, 1848, 8vo.

Gilfillan, George.--A Second Gallery of Literary Portraits. London,
1850, 8vo.
      John Milton, pp. 1-39.

---- Modern Christian Heroes, etc. London, 1869, 8vo.
      John Milton, pp. 81-118.

Giraud, Jane E.--Flowers of Milton. London, 1850, 4to.

Godwin, William.--Lives of E. and J. Philips, nephews and pupils of Milton, to which are added:
I. Collections for the life of Milton, by J. Aubrey, printed from the manuscript copy in the
Ashmolean Museum. II. The Life of Milton, by E. Philips, printed 1694. London, 1815, 4to.

Goodwin, Thomas.--The Student's Practical Grammar of the English Language; together with a
commentary on the first book of Milton's Paradise Lost. London, 1855, 12mo.

Greenwood, F.W.P.--The Miscellaneous Writings of F.W.P. Greenwood.
Boston, 1846, 8vo.
      Milton's Prose Works, pp. 208-226.

Grotius, H. de.--The Adamus Exul of Grotius; or, the prototype of Paradise Lost. Translated
from the Latin, by Francis Barham. London, 1839, 8vo.

Guerle, Edmond de.--Milton, sa vie et ses oeuvres. Paris, 1868, 8vo.

Güntzer, C.--Dissertationis ad quaedam loca Miltoni pars posterior. Argentorati, 1657, 4to.

Hamilton, W. Douglas.--Original Papers, illustrative of the life and
writings of John Milton, including sixteen letters of State written by
him, now first published from MSS. in the State Paper Office, etc.
London, 1859, 4to.
      Printed for the Camden Society.

Hamilton, Walter.--Parodies of the Works of English and American
Authors, collected and annotated by W. Hamilton. London, 1885, 4to.
      John Milton, vol. ii., pp. 217-236.

Hare, Julius Charles.--Essays and Tales. 2 vols. London, 1848, 8vo.
      Milton, vol. i., pp. 73-86.
[Signed J. H(arrington); a satire.] London, 1660, 4to.
      Reprinted in the Harleian Miscellany.

Hayley, William.--The Life of Milton; to which are added conjectures on
the origin of Paradise Lost. (The second edition enlarged.) London,
1796, 4to.
      This life appeared originally in 1794 in vol. i. of Milton's
      Poetical Works.

Hillebrand, C.--De sacro apud Christianos carmine epico dissertationem seu Dantis, Miltonis,
Klopstockii poetarum collationem proponebat C. Hillebrand, Parisiis, 1861, 8vo.

Hodgson, Shadworth H.--Outcast Essays, etc. London, 1881, 8vo.
      The supernatural in English poetry; Shakespere; Milton; Wordsworth
      Tennyson, pp. 99-180.

Holloway, Laura C.--The Mothers of Great Men and Women, etc. New York,
1884, 8vo.
      Milton's Wives, pp. 457-478.

Hood, Edwin Paxton.--John Milton: the Patriot and Poet. London, 1852, 18mo.

Hopkins, J.--Milton's Paradise Lost, imitated in rhyme; in the fourth, sixth, and ninth books,
etc. London, 1699, 8vo.

Howitt, William.--Homes and Haunts of the most eminent British Poets.
Third edition. London, 1857, 8vo.
      John Milton, pp. 46-68.

Huet, C.B.--Litterarische Fantasien en Kritieken. Haarlem [1883], 8vo.
      Milton, 12th Deel, pp. 150-220.

Hunt, Theodore W.--Representative English Prose and Prose Writers. New
York, 1887, 8vo.
      The prose style of John Milton, pp. 246-264.

Hutton, Laurence.--Literary Landmarks of London. London, 1885, 8vo.
      John Milton, pp. 210-216, etc.

Ivimey, Joseph.--John Milton; his life and times; religious and political opinions; with an
appendix, containing animadversions upon Dr. Johnson's Life of Milton, etc. London, 1833, 8vo.

Jackson, W.--Lycidas: a musical entertainment. The words altered from Milton. London, 1767, 8vo.

Jane, Joseph.--The Image Unbroaken a perspective of the Impudence, Falshood, Vanitie, and Prophannes,
in a Libell entitled Eikonoklastes. [London], 1651, 4to.

Johnson, Samuel.--Prefaces to Milton and Butler. (Prefaces to the Works of the English Poets,
vol. ii.) London, 1779, 8vo.

---- Court and Country: a paraphrase upon Milton. [In a dialogue.] By the author of Hurlothrumbo
[i.e., Samuel Johnson]. London [1780], 8vo.

Jortin, John.--Remarks on Spenser's Poems. London, 1734, 8vo.
      Remarks on Milton, pp. 171-186.

Keightley, Thomas.--An account of the Life, Opinions, and Writings of John Milton. With an
introduction to Paradise Lost. London, 1855, 8vo.

Keogh, Rt. Hon. William.--Milton's Prose. (Afternoon Lectures on Literature and Art, delivered
in the Theatre of the Museum of Industry, Dublin, 1865, 3rd Series.) London, 1866, 8vo.

Lamartine, M.L.A. de.--Héloïse et Abélard [Biographies]. Paris, 1864, 12mo.
      Includes a biography of Milton, pp. 113-215.

Lauder, William.--An essay on Milton's use and imitation of the moderns in his Paradise Lost.
[With a preface by Dr. Johnson.] London, 1750, 8vo.

---- A letter to the reverend Mr. Douglas, occasioned by his vindication of Milton, etc. [Written
by Dr. Johnson.] London, 1751, 4to.

---- An apology for Mr. Lauder [written by himself] in a letter most humbly addressed to his
grace the Archbishop of Canterbury. London, 1751, 8vo.

---- Delectus auctorum sacrorum, Miltono facem prælucentium. 2 tom. London, 1752, 8vo.

---- King Charles I. vindicated from the charge of plagiarism brought against him by Milton,
etc. To the whole is subjoined the Judgment of several learned and impartial authors concerning
Milton's political writings. London, 1754, 8vo.

L'Estrange, R.--No Blind Guides, in answer to a seditious pamphlet of Milton's, intituled Brief
notes upon a late sermon titl'd The fear of God and the King, preach'd and since publish'd.
By M. Griffith, etc. London, 1660, 4to.

Letters.--Letters concerning poetical translations and Virgil's and Milton's Arts of Verse,
etc. London, 1739, 8vo.

Liebert, Gustav.--Milton. Studien zur Geschichte des englischen Geistes. Hamburg, 1860, 8vo.

Lotheissen, Ferdinand.--Studien über John Milton's poetische Werke. Budingen, 1860, 4to.

Lowell, James Russell.--Among my Books. Second series. London, 1876, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 252-302.

M.J.A.--An introduction to the Study of Shakespeare and Milton. [By J.A.M. With selections
from their works.] London [1884], 8vo.

Macaulay, Thomas Babington.--Critical and historical essays contributed
to the Edinburgh Review. 2 vols. London, 1854, 8vo.
      Milton, vol. i., pp. 1-28.

---- The Miscellaneous Writings of Lord Macaulay. London, 1860, 8vo.

---- An Essay on the Life and Works of John Milton, together with the imaginary conversation
between him and H. Cowley. London, 1868, 8vo.

---- Milton's Essay on Milton. From the Edinburgh Review. With introductory notice and notes.
London, 1872, 16mo.

---- John Milton. [A biographical sketch.] Boston, 1877, 16mo.

---- Macaulay's Milton, edited to illustrate the laws of Rhetoric and Composition, by Alexander
Mackie. London, 1884, 8vo.

Maceuen, Malcolm.--Celebrities of the Past and Present. Philadelphia,
1874, 8vo.
      Milton and Poetry, pp. 195-202.

Mackenzie, Sir George.--Jus Regium: or, the just and solid foundations of monarchy in general
maintain'd against Buchanan, Dolman, Milton, etc. Edinburgh, 1684, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1684, 8vo.

McNicoll, Thomas.--Essays on English Literature. London, 1861, 8vo.
      Milton and Pollok, pp. 65-111.

Marquis, G.A.--Select Poetical Pieces, with a logical arrangement, or practical commentary
on Milton's Paradise Lost. Second edition enlarged. Paris, 1842, 12mo.

Marsh, John F.--Papers connected with the affairs of Milton and his
family. Edited by J.F. Marsh. Manchester, 1851, 4to.
      In vol. i. of the Chetham Miscellanies, published by the Chetham
      Society.

---- Notice of the inventory of the effects of Mrs. Milton, widow of the
poet. Liverpool, 1855, 8vo.
      Extracted from the proceedings of the Historic Society of
      Lancashire and Cheshire.

---- On the engraved portrait and pretended portraits of Milton. Extracted from the Transactions
of the Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire. Liverpool, 1860, 8vo.

Martyn, W. Carlos.--Life and Times of John Milton. [Published by the "American Tract Society."
With portrait.] New York [1866], 12mo.

Mason, W.--Musæus; a monody to the memory of Mr. Pope in imitation of Milton's Lycidas. London,
1747, 4to.

Massey, William.--Remarks upon Milton's Paradise Lost, etc. London, 1761, 12mo.

Masson, David.--Essays biographical and critical: chiefly on English
poets. Cambridge, 1856, 8vo.
      Milton's Youth, pp. 37-52; The Three Devils: Luther's, Milton's,
      and Goethe's, pp. 53-87.

---- The Three Devils: Luther's, Milton's, and Goethe's. London, 1874, 8vo. 6 vols. Cambridge,
1859-80, 8vo.

---- New and revised edition. London, 1881, etc., 8vo.

---- John Milton. (Encyclopædia Britannica, vol. xvi., pp. 324-340.) London, 1883, 4to.

Meadowcourt, Richard.--A critique on Milton's Paradise Regained. London, 1732, 4to.

---- A Critical Dissertation, with notes, on Milton's Paradise Regain'd. The second edition
corrected. London, 1748, 8vo.

Milton, John.--An answer to a book [by John Milton], intituled, The Divorce and Discipline
of Divorce, etc. London, 1644, 4to.

---- Carolus I. Britanniarum Rex, a Securi et Calamo Miltonii vindicatus. Dublini, 1652, 12mo.

---- Areopagitica Secunda: or, speech of the shade of John Milton on Mr. Sergeant Talfourd's
Copyright Extension Bill. London, 1838, 8vo.

---- Comus, a mask: (now adapted to the stage) as alter'd [by J. Dalton] from Milton's Mask.
London, 1738, 8vo.

---- Second edition. Dublin, 1738, 8vo.

---- Sixth edition. London, 1741, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1750, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1759, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1760, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1762, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1777, 8vo.

---- Comus, a masque [altered by J. Dalton from John Milton], London,
1791, 8vo.
      In vol. i. of "Bell's Theatre."

---- Comus [altered from Milton by J. Dalton]. London, 1811, 8vo.
      In the "Modern British Drama," vol. ii.

---- Comus: a mask, altered from Milton. [By J. Dalton.] London, 1815,
16mo.
      In vol. x. of Dibdin's "London Theatre."

---- Comus. [Adapted to the stage by J. Dalton.] London, 1826, 8vo.
      In the "British Drama," vol. ii.

---- Comus: a masque [in two acts]. Altered from Milton [by G. Colman]. As performed at the
Theatre-Royal in Covent Garden. The musick composed by Dr. Arne. London, 1772, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1774, 8vo.

---- Comus: a masque. Altered by Mr. Colman. (Bell's British Theatre, vol. ix.) London, 1777, 12mo.

---- Comus: a masque. Altered from Milton [by G. Colman]. Edinburgh,
1786, 12mo.
      Vol. iv. of the "British Stage."

---- Comus. Altered for the stage by Colman. (Modern British Drama, vol. v.) London, 1811, 8vo.

---- Comus: a masque. Altered from Milton, by G. Colman. (Inchbald's Collection of Farces,
vol. vii.) London, 1815, 12mo.

---- Milton's Comus: a masque, in two acts [altered from Milton], as
revised at Covent Garden, April 28, 1815. London, 1815, 8vo.
      There is a copy in the British Museum with the autograph of Sir
      Henry Bishop.

---- Comus: a masque. Altered from Milton [by G. Colman]. London [1824],
8vo.
      Vol. ii. of "The London Stage."

---- Comus. Altered from Milton. [By G. Colman, the elder.] London,
1872, 8vo.
      In the "British Drama," vol. xii.

---- Comus: a masque. Altered from Milton. (Supplement to Bell's British Theatre, vol. iv.)
London, 1784, 12mo.

---- Miltonis epistola ad Pollionem. Edidit et notis illustravit F.S. Cantabrigiensis. Londini,
1738, folio.

---- Editio altera. Londini, 1738, folio.

---- Milton's Epistle to Pollio. Translated from the Latin, and illustrated with notes. London,
1740, folio.

---- Milton restor'd and Bentley depos'd, containing, I. Some observations on Dr. Bentley's
preface. II. His various readings and notes on Paradise Lost and Milton's text, set in opposite
columns, with remarks therein. III. Paradise Lost, attempted in rime. Book I., Numb. I. From
Dean Swift. London, 1732, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost: a poem attempted in Rhime. [Altered from Milton.] London, 1740, 8vo.

---- Paradise Lost. An oratorio [in three acts and in verse] altered and adapted to the stage
from Milton [by B. Stillingfleet]. London, 1760, 4to.

---- Paradise Lost. An oratorio in four parts. The words selected from the works of Milton
by J.L. Ellerton. London [1862], 12mo.

---- Paradise Lost. Oratorio in three parts, from the poem of Milton. English version by J.
Pittman. London [1880], 8vo.

---- The State of Innocence and Fall of Man described in Milton's Paradise Lost. Render'd into
prose with notes from the French of Raymond [or rather Nicolas Francois Dupré] de St. Maur.
By a gentleman of Oxford [George Smith Green?]. London, 1745, 8vo.

---- Another edition. Aberdeen, 1770, 12mo.

---- A verbal Index to Milton's Paradise Lost; adapted to every edition but the first, etc.
London, 1741, 12mo.

---- An essay upon Milton's imitations of the Ancients in his Paradise Lost. With some observations
on the Paradise Regain'd. London, 1741, 8vo.

---- A new occasional Oratorio [on the suppression of the Rebellion],
the words taken from Milton, Spenser, etc., and set to musick by Mr.
Handel. London, 1746, 4to.
      The words only.

---- The Progress of Envy, a poem occasioned by Lauder's attack on the character of Milton.
London, 1751, 4to.

---- A familiar explanation of the poetical works of Milton. To which is prefixed Mr. Addison's
criticism on Paradise Lost. With a preface by Rev. Mr. Dodd. London, 1672, 12mo.

---- The Recovery of Man: or, Milton's Paradise Regained. In Prose. After the manner of the
Archbishop of Cambray. To which is prefixed the life of the author. [London], 1771, 12mo.

---- Samson. An Oratorio [in three acts]. As it is performed at the
Theatres-royal. Altered from the Samson Agonistes of Milton [by N.
Hamilton]. Set to musick by Mr. Handel. London [1742], 8vo.
      The words only.

---- Another edition. London [1742], 4to.

---- Another edition. London [1742], 4to.

---- Another edition. London, 1743, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1751, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1759, 4to.

---- Samson: an oratorio [altered and adapted to the stage from the Samson Agonistes by N.
Hamilton]. [Oxford], 1749, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1762, 4to.

---- Samson. Set to musick by Mr. Handel. London, 1762, 4to.

---- Samson. An oratorio [altered from the Samson Agonistes, by N. Hamilton]. Salisbury, 1765, 8vo.

---- Handel's oratorio, Samson. The words chiefly from Milton. [Compiled by T. Morell.] London
[1840], 4to.

---- The Life of John Milton.

---- A Milton Memorial. A sketch of the life of John Milton, compiled with reference to the
proposed restoration of the Church of St. Giles, Cripplegate (where he was buried). By Antiquitatis
historicæ studiosus. London, 1862, 8vo.

Mirabeau, Count de.--Théorie de la Royauté d'après la Doctrine de Milton. [Translated from
the Defence of the People of England. With a preliminary dissertation, "Sur Milton et ses ouvrages";
by H.G. Riquetti, Comte de Mirabeau?] [Paris], 1789, 8vo.

Moers, F. Josephus.--De fontibus Paradisi Amissi Miltoniani. Dissertatio philologica, etc.
Bonnae [1865], 8vo.

Morris, Joseph W.--John Milton: a vindication, specially from the charge of Arianism. London
[1862], 8vo.

Mortimer, Charles Edward.--An historical memoir of the Political Life of John Milton. London,
1805, 4to.

Morus, Alexander.--A. Mori Fides Publica, contra calumnias Joannis Miltoni. Hagæ-Comitum, 1654,
12mo.

Mouron, H.--Jean Milton. Conférence. Deuxième édition. Strasbourg, 1875, 8vo.

Munkácsy, M.--Opinions of the Continental Press on M. Munkácsy and his latest picture, "Milton
dictating Paradise Lost to his daughters." Paris, 1879, 8vo.

Neve, Philip.--A narrative of the disinterment of Milton's coffin in the Parish Church of St.
Giles, Cripplegate, 4th August 1790; and of the treatment of the corpse during that and the
following day. London, 1790, 8vo.

Nicoll, Henry J.--Landmarks of English Literature. London, 1883, 8vo.
      John Milton, pp. 112-125.

Paterson, James.--A complete commentary on Milton's Paradise Lost, etc. London, 1744, 8vo.

Pattison, Mark.--Milton. [An account of his life and works.] London,
1879, 8vo.
      One of the "English Men of Letters" series.

Pauli, Reinhold.--Aufsätze zur Englischen Geschichte. Leipzig, 1869, 8vo.
      John Milton, pp. 348-391.

Pearce, Z., Bishop of Rochester.--A review of the text of Milton's Paradise Lost; in which
the chief of Dr. Bentley's Emendations are consider'd; and several other emendations and observations
are offer'd to the public. London, 1732, 8vo.

---- Another edition. London, 1733, 8vo.

Peck, Francis.--New Memoirs of the Life and Poetical Works of Mr. John Milton, etc. London,
1740, 4to.

---- Memoirs of the life and actions of Oliver Cromwell: as delivered in three panegyrics of
him. The first, as said, by Don Juan Rodriguez de Saa Meneses; the second, as affirmed by a
certain Jesuit; yet both, it is thought, composed by Mr. John Milton, as was the third, etc.
London, 1740, 4to.

Penn, John.--Critical, poetical, and dramatic works. 2 vols. London,
1798, 8vo.
      Samson Agonistes, vol. ii., pp. 213-263.

Philips, John.--Poems attempted in the style of Milton, etc. London, 1762, 12mo.

Philo-Milton, pseud.--Milton's Sublimity asserted: in a poem occasion'd by a late piece entituled
Cyder, a poem [by J. Philips]. In blank verse. London, 1709, 4to.

---- A vindication of the Paradise Lost from the charge of exculpating Lord Byron's "Cain,
a Mystery." London, 1822, 8vo.

Plaint.--The Plaint of Freedom. (To the Memory of Milton. In verse.) Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 1852,
4to.

Prendergast, G.L.--A complete concordance to the poetical works of Milton. Madras, 1856-57, 4to.

Prodromus.--Verax Prodromus in Delirum. [An invective against John Milton.] [Amsterdam? 1656?] 4to.

R * *--Lettres critiques à Mr. le comte * * * sur le Paradis perdu, et reconquis, de Milton,
par R * * [outh]. Paris, 1731, 8vo.

Reed, Henry.--Lectures on the British Poets. 2 vols. Philadelphia,
1858, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 199-232.

Rice, Allen Thorndike.--Essays from the North American Review. New York,
1879, 8vo.
      John Milton, by Ralph Waldo Emerson, pp. 99-122.

Richardson, Jonathan.--Explanatory notes and remarks on Milton's Paradise Lost. By J. Richardson,
father and son. London, 1734, 8vo.

Richardson, Jonathan.--Zoilomastix; or, a vindication of Milton from all the invidious charges
of W. Lauder. With several new remarks on Paradise Lost. London, 1747, 8vo.

Ring, Max.--John Milton und seine Zeit. Historischer Roman. Frankfurt a. Main, 1857, 8vo.

---- John Milton and his times, a historical novel. Translated by J. Jefferson. Manchester,
1889, 8vo.

Rolli, P.--Sabrina; an opera [in three acts and in verse. Founded on the "Comus" of Milton].
Ital. and Eng. London, 1737, 8vo.

Rossetti, William Michael.--Lives of Famous Poets. London, 1878, 8vo.
      John Milton, pp. 65-79.

Rowland, J.--Pro Rege et Populo Anglicano apologia, contra Joannis Polypragmatici (alias Miltoni
Angli) defensionem destructivam Regis et Populi Anglicani. Antwerpiæ, 1651, 12mo.

---- Another edition. Antwerpiæ, 1652, 12mo.

S.G.--The dignity of Kingship asserted: in answer to Mr. Milton's Ready and Easie way to establish
a free Commonwealth. By G.S. (George Searle?), a lover of loyalty. London, 1660, 8vo.

Saintsbury, George.--A History of Elizabethan Literature. London,
1887, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 315-329.

Salmasius, Claudius de.--Claudii Salmasii ad Johannem Miltonum Responsio. Opus posthumum. Londini,
1660, 12mo.

Say, Samuel.--Poems on several occasions: and two critical Essays--viz., the first on the harmony,
variety, and power of numbers, whether in prose or verse; the second, on the numbers of Paradise
Lost. [With a portrait of Milton, etched by J. Richardson.] London, 1745, 4to.

Scherer, Edmond.--Études sur la Littérature Contemporaine. Paris,
1882, 8vo.
      Milton et le Paradis Perdu, tom. vi., pp. 161-194.

Scolari, Filippo.--Saggio di Critica sul Paradiso Perduto, Poema di Giovanni Milton, e sulle
annotazioni a quello di Giuseppe Addison. Aggiuntovi l'Adamo sacra rappresentazione di G.B.
Andreini, etc. Venezia, 1818, 8vo.

Scott, John.--Critical Essays on some of the poems of several English
poets, etc. London, 1785, 8vo.
      On Milton's Lycidas, pp. 37-64.

Seeley, J.R.--Lectures and Essays. London, 1870, 8vo.
      Milton's Political Opinions, pp. 89-119; Milton's Poetry,
      pp. 120-154.

Shenston, J.B.--The Authority of Jehovah asserted, ... with some remarks on the article on
Milton's Essay on the Sabbath and the Lord's Day, which appeared in the Evangelical Review,
1826. London, 1826, 8vo.

Smectymnuus, pseud. [i.e., Stephen Marshall, Edmund Calamy etc.]--A modest confutation of a
slanderous and scurrilous libell, entituled, Animadversions [by John Milton] upon the remonstrants'
defense against Smectymnuus. [London] 1642, 4to.

Sotheby, Samuel Leigh.--Ramblings in the elucidation of the Autograph of Milton. [With plates.]
London, 1861, 4to.

Steel, David.--Elements of Punctuation, and critical observations on some passages in Milton.
London, 1786, 8vo.

Stern, Alfred.--Milton und seine Zeit. 2 Thle. Leipzig, 1877-79, 8vo.

---- Milton und Cromwell. Berlin, 1875, 8vo.
      Serie x., Hft. 236 of Virchow and Holtzendorff's "Sammlung
      gemeinverständlicher wissenschaftlicher Vorträge, etc."

Symmons, Charles.--The Life of John Milton, etc. London, 1806, 8vo.

---- Second edition. London, 1810, 8vo.

---- Third edition. London, 1882, 8vo.

Taine, H.A.--Histoire de la Littérature Anglaise. 4 tom. Paris, 1863-4,
8vo.
      Milton, tom, ii., pp. 327-435.

---- History of English Literature. Translated by H. Van Laun. 4 vols.
Edinburgh, 1873-4, 8vo.
      Milton, vol. ii., pp. 239-318.

Tasso, Torquato.--Il Tasso, a dialogue. The speakers, John Milton, Torquato Tasso. London,
1762, 8vo.

Todd, Henry John.--Some account of the life and writings of John Milton.
Second edition, with additions, and with a verbal index to the whole of
Milton's poetry. London, 1809, 8vo.
      This forms vol. i. of the 1809 edition of Todd's Milton; a certain
      number of copies being printed off with a distinct title-page.

---- Some account of the life and writings of John Milton, derived principally from documents
in His Majesty's State-paper Office, now first published. London, 1826, 8vo.

Toland, John.--The Life of John Milton, containing, besides the history of his works, several
extraordinary characters of men and books, sects, parties, and opinions. [Signed J.T., i.e.
J. Toland.] London, 1699, 8vo.

---- Amyntor; or, a Defence of Milton's Life, etc. London, 1699, 8vo.

---- The Life of John Milton; with Amyntor; or a Defence of Milton's Life, etc. London, 1761, 8vo.

Tomlinson, John.--Three Household Poets--viz., Milton, Cowper, Burns, etc. London, 1869, 8vo.

Tulloch, John.--English Puritanism and its leaders, Cromwell, Milton, Baxter, Bunyan. Edinburgh,
1861, 8vo.

Vericour, Raymond de.--Milton et la poésie épique, etc. Paris, 1838, 8vo.

Ward, Thomas H.--The English Poets; selections, with critical
introductions, etc. 4 vols. London, 1880, 8vo.
      John Milton, by Mark Pattison, vol. ii., pp. 293-379.

Warton, Thomas.--A Letter to T. Warton on his editon of Milton's juvenile poems. [By S. Darby?]
London, 1785, 8vo.

White, Thomas Holt.--A Review of Johnson's criticism on the style of Milton's English Prose,
etc. London, 1818, 8vo.

Wilson, J.--Vindiciæ Carolinæ; or a defence of Eikon Basilike, etc. London, 1692, 8vo.

Yonge, Charles Duke.--Three Centuries of English Literature. London,
1872, 8vo.
      Milton, pp. 185-210.

Zicari da Paola, F.--Sulla scoverta dell' originale Italiano da cui Milton trasse il suo poema
del Paradiso Perduto. Napoli, 1844, 12mo.

Ziegler, C.--C. Ziegleri circa regicidium Anglorum exercitationes. Accedit Jacobi Schalleri
Dissertatio ad loca quædam Miltoni. Lugd. Batavorum, 1653, 12mo.

MAGAZINE ARTICLES, ETC.

Milton, John.--Edinburgh Review, by T.B. Macaulay, vol. 42, 1825,
pp. 304-346.
  --Christian Examiner, by W.E. Channing, vol. 3, 1826, pp. 29-77;
    same article, Pamphleteer, vol. 29, pp. 507-547.
  --United States Literary Gazette, vol. 4, 1826, pp. 278-293.
  --Quarterly Review, by J.J. Blunt, vol. 36, 1827, pp. 29-61.
  --American Quarterly Review, vol. 5, 1829, pp. 301-310.
  --American Quarterly Observer, vol. 1, 1833, pp. 115-125.
  --Congregational Magazine, vol. 9, 1833, pp. 193-211.
  --North American Review, by R.W. Emerson, vol. 47, 1838, pp. 56-73.
  --Blackwood's Magazine, vol. 46, 1839, pp. 775-780.
  --Penny Magazine, vol. 10, 1841, pp. 97-101.
  --National Review, vol. 9, 1859, pp. 150-186.
  --Chambers's Journal, vol. 11, 1859, pp. 117-119.
  --Radical, by B.W. Wall, vol. 3, 1868, pp. 718-723.
  --Contemporary Review, by P. Bayne, vol. 22, 1873, pp. 427-460;
    same article, Eclectic Magazine, vol. 18 N.S., pp. 565-585;
    Littell's Living Age, vol. 3, 5th ser., pp. 643-662.
  --New Monthly Magazine, vol. 4 N.S., 1873, pp. 27-35.
  --Congregationalist, by T.H. Gill, vol. 3, 1874, pp. 705-714.
  --Macmillan's Magazine, by Mark Pattison, vol. 31, 1875, pp. 380-387;
    same article, Littell's Living Age, vol. 10, 5th ser., pp. 323-329.
  --Western, by H.H. Morgan, vol. 5, 1879, pp. 107-138.
  --Modern Review, by H. New, vol. 2, 1881, pp. 103-128;
    same article, Littell's Living Age, vol. 148, pp. 515-525.

---- and the Commonwealth. British Quarterly Review, vol. 10, 1849,
pp. 224-254;
    same article, Eclectic Magazine, vol. 18, pp. 346-362.

---- and Dante. St. James's Magazine, vol. 15, 1866, pp. 243-250.

---- and Galileo. Fraser's Magazine, by Sir Richard Owen, vol. 79, 1869, pp. 678-684.

---- and his daughters. People's Journal, by Mrs. Leman Gillies, vol. 5, 1848, pp. 227, 228.

---- and Homer contrasted. Analectic Magazine, vol. 14, 1819, pp. 224-229.

---- and Macaulay. De Bow's Review, by G. Fitzhugh, vol. 28, 1860, pp. 667-679.

---- and Masenius. Month, vol. 8, 1868, pp. 542-550.

---- and the Daughters of Eve. St. Paul's, vol. 13, 1873, pp. 405-418.

---- and Vondel. Academy, by Edmund Gosse and G. Edmundson, vol. 28,
1885, pp. 265, 266, 293, 294, 342; and by J.R. Mac Ilraith, pp. 308, 309.
  --Athenæum, Nov. 7, 1885, pp. 599, 600.
  --Nation, vol. 42, 1886, pp. 264, 265.

---- and Wordsworth. Temple Bar, vol. 60, 1880, pp. 106-115.

---- Angels of. New Englander, by John A. Himes, vol. 43, 1884, pp. 527-543.

---- Areopagitica. Retrospective Review, vol. 9, 1824, pp. 1-19.

---- as a Reformer. Methodist Quarterly Review, by F.H. Newhall, vol. 39, 1857, pp. 542-559.

---- At Cambridge. American Journal of Education, vol. 28, 1878, pp. 383-400.

---- Bibliographical account of his works. Retrospective Review, vol. 14, 1826, pp. 282-305.

---- Blank Verse of. Fortnightly Review, by J.A. Symonds, vol. 16 N.S., 1874, pp. 767-781.

---- Blindness of. Chambers's Journal, vol. 3 N.S., 1845, pp. 392-394.

---- Byron and Southey. De Bow's Review, by G. Fitzhugh, vol. 29, 1860, pp. 430-440.

---- Channing on. Edinburgh Review, by H. Brougham, vol. 69, 1839,
pp. 214-230.
  --Monthly Review, vol. 7 N.S., 1828, pp. 471-478.
  --Fraser's Magazine, vol. 17, 1838, pp. 627-635.

---- Christian Doctrine. Quarterly Review, vol. 32, 1835, pp. 442-457.
  --North American Review, by S. Willard, vol. 22, 1826, pp. 364-373.
  --United States Literary Gazette, vol. 3, 1826, pp. 321-327.
  --Monthly Review, vol. 107, 1825, pp. 273-294.
  --Congregational Magazine, vol. 8, 1825, pp. 588-592.
  --Eclectic Review, vol. 25 N.S., 1826, pp. 1-18, 114-141.

---- Comus. New Monthly Magazine, vol. 7, 1823, pp. 222-229.

---- Comus, and Fletcher's Faithful Shepherdess. Manchester Quarterly, by W.E.A. Axon, vol.
1, 1882, pp. 285-295.

---- Dante and Æschylus. Tait's Edinburgh Magazine, vol. 20 N.S., 1853, pp. 513-525, 577-587,
641-650.

---- De Vericour's Lectures on. Monthly Review, vol. 2 N.S., 1838, pp. 342-351.

---- Doctrinal Error of his later life. Bibliotheca Sacra, by T. Hunt, vol. 42, 1885, pp. 251-269.

---- Doctrine of Divorce. Monthly Review, vol. 93, 1820, pp. 144-158.

---- Early Life. Methodist Quarterly Review, by P. Church, vol. 48, 1866, pp. 580-595.

---- Effigies of. Historical Magazine, vol. 2, 1858, pp. 230-233.

---- Familiar Letters. Southern Review, vol.

---- French Critic on. Quarterly Review, vol. 143, 1877, pp. 186-204;
  same article, Littell's Living Age, vol. 132, pp. 579-589.

---- Genius of. Tait's Edinburgh Magazine, by G. Gilfillan, vol. 15
N.S., 1848, pp. 511-522;
  same article, Eclectic Magazine, vol. 15, pp. 196-212.

---- History of England. Retrospective Review, vol. 6, 1822, pp. 87-100.

---- Hollis' Bust of. Scribner's Monthly, by C. Cook, vol. 11, 1876, pp. 472-476.

---- Home, School, and College Training of. American Journal of Education, vol. 14, 1864, pp.
159-190.

---- Idealism of. Contemporary Review, by E. Dowden, vol. 19, 1872,
pp. 198-209;
  same article, Littell's Living Age, vol. 112, 1872, pp. 408-414.

---- in our Day. Christian Examiner, by S. Good, vol. 57, 1854, pp. 323-340.

---- Italian Element in. Penn Monthly Magazine, by O.H. Kendall, vol. 1, 1870, pp. 388-400.

---- Keble's Estimate of. Macmillan's Magazine, by J.C. Shairp, vol. 31, 1875, pp. 554-560.

---- Keightley's Life of. North American Review, by H.A. Whitney, vol. 82, 1856, pp. 388-404.
Littell's Living Age (from the Saturday Review), vol. 63, 1859, pp. 226-229.

---- Lamartine on. Littell's Living Age (from the Literary Gazette), vol. 44, 1855, pp. 497-499.

---- Latin Poems of, Cowper's Translations. Eclectic Review, Sept. 1808, pp. 780-791.

---- Life of. North British Review, by D. Masson, vol. 16, 1852,
pp. 295-335;
  same article, Eclectic Magazine, vol. 25, 1852, pp. 433-447.
  --New Quarterly Review, vol. 8, 1859, pp. 40-54.

---- Life and Poetry of. Hogg's Instructor, vol. 1 N.S., 1853, pp.
234-242;
  same article, Eclectic Magazine, vol. 30, pp. 364-372.

---- Lycidas. American Monthly Magazine, vol. 5 N.S., 1838, pp. 341-353.
  --Quarterly Review, vol. 158, 1884, pp. 162-183.

---- ---- Language of Lycidas. Sharpe's London Magazine, vol. 25 N.S., 1864, pp. 293-296.

---- ---- Notes on Lycidas. Journal of Speculative Philosophy, by A.C. Brackett, vol. 1, 1867,
pp. 87-90.

---- Masson's Life of. British Quarterly Review, vol. 29, 1859, pp.
185-214; vol. 59, 1874, pp. 81-100.
  --North British Review, vol. 30, 1859, pp. 281-308;
    same article, Littell's Living Age, vol. 61, pp. 731-747.
  --Dublin University Magazine, vol. 53, 1859, pp. 609-623.
  --New Monthly Magazine, vol. 115, 1859, pp. 163-172.
  --Eclectic Review, vol. 1 N.S., 1859, pp. 1-21.
  --Christian Examiner, by G.E. Ellis, vol. 66, 1859, pp. 401-431.
  --Old and New, vol. 4, 1871, pp. 704-708.
  --Nation, by W.F. Allen, vol. 13, 1871, pp. 91, 92; vol. 17, 1873,
    pp. 165, 166; vol. 31, 1880, pp. 15, 16.
  --International Review, by H.C. Lodge, vol. 9, 1880, pp. 125-135.
  --Quarterly Review, vol. 132, 1872, pp. 393-423.
  --Presbyterian Quarterly, by E.H. Gillett, vol. 1, 1872, pp. 382-394.
  --North American Review, by J.R. Lowell, vol. 114, 1872, pp. 204-218.
  --Macmillan's Magazine, by G.B. Smith, vol. 28, 1873, pp. 536-547.
  --Christian Observer, vol. 73, 1873, pp. 815-834.
  --International Review, vol. 1, 1874, pp. 131-135.
  --North American Review, vol. 126, 1878, pp. 537-542.
  --Nation, by J.L. Dyman, vol. 26, 1878, pp. 342-344.
  --Westminster Review, vol. 57 N.S., 1880, pp. 365-385.

---- Minor Poems. Dublin University Magazine, vol. 63, 1864, pp. 619-625.

---- Mitford's Life of. New Monthly Magazine, vol. 34, 1832, pp. 581, 582.

---- Nephews of. Edinburgh Review, by Sir J. Mackintosh, vol. 25, 1815, pp. 485-501.

---- Newly-discovered Prose Writings of. Hours at Home, by E.H. Gillett, vol. 9, 1869, pp. 532-536.

---- Ode to. Harper's New Monthly Magazine, by A.A. Lipscomb, vol. 20, 1860, pp. 771-778.

---- On the Divinity of Christ. Christian Examiner, vol. 2, 1825, pp. 423-429.

---- Paradise Lost. Journal of Sacred Literature, by F.A. Cox, vol. 1, 1848, pp. 236-257.

---- ---- Chateaubriand's Translation of Paradise Lost. Foreign Quarterly Review, vol. 19,
1837, pp. 35-50.

---- ---- Cosmology of Paradise Lost. Lutheran Quarterly, by J.A. Himes, vol. 6, p. 187, etc.

---- ---- De Lille's Translation of Paradise Lost. Edinburgh Review, vol. 8, 1806, pp. 167-190.

---- ---- First Edition of Paradise Lost. Book-Lore, vol. 3, 1886, pp. 72-75. Leisure Hour,
April 28, 1877, pp. 269, 270.

---- ---- Moral Estimate of the Paradise Lost. Christian Observer, vol. 22, 1822, pp. 211-218,
278-284.

---- ---- Mull's edition of Paradise Lost. Spectator, December 6,
1884, pp. 1635, 1636.
  --Saturday Review, vol. 58, pp. 570, 571.

---- ---- Origin of the Paradise Lost. North American Review, by L.E. Dubois, vol. 91, 1860,
pp. 539-555.

---- ---- Plan of Paradise Lost. New Englander, by Professor Himes, vol. 42, 1883, pp. 196-211.

---- ---- Prendeville's edition of Paradise Lost. Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine, vol. 47,
1840, pp. 691-716.

---- ---- Sorelli's Italian Translation of Paradise Lost. Foreign Quarterly Review, vol. 10,
1832, pp. 508-513.

---- ---- Theism of the Paradise Lost. Unitarian Review, by H. Carpenter, vol. 5, pp. 302, etc.

---- Poetry of. Edinburgh Review, vol. 42, 1825, pp. 304-324.
  --Selections from the Edinburgh Review, vol. 2, 1835, pp. 34-64.
  --Macmillan's Magazine, by J.R. Seeley, vol. 17, 1868, pp. 299-311;
    vol. 19, pp. 407-421.
  --Temple Bar, vol. 39, 1873, pp. 458-473.

---- Political Writings. Nation, by Goldwin Smith, vol. 30, 1880, pp. 30-32.

---- Prose Writings of. New Monthly Magazine, vol. 40, 1834, pp. 39-50.
  --Congregational Magazine, vol. 10 N.S., 1834, pp. 217-224.
  --American Monthly Magazine, vol. 1 N.S., 1836, pp. 142-146.
  --Eclectic Review, vol. 25 N.S., 1849, pp. 507-521.
  --Spectator, Oct. 3, 1885, pp. 1317, 1318.
  --Athenæum, Sept. 20, 1884, pp. 359, 360.

---- Public Conduct of. Edinburgh Review, vol. 42, 1825, pp. 324-346.
    --Selections from the Edinburgh Review, vol. 2, 1835, pp. 48-64.

---- Relics of, at Cambridge. Chambers's Journal, vol. 8, 1857, pp. 319, 320.

---- Religious Life and Opinions of. Bibliotheca Sacra, by A.D. Barber, vol. 16, 1859, pp.
557-603; vol. 17, pp. 1-42.

---- Rural Scenes of. Fraser's Magazine, vol. 23, 1841, pp. 519-528.

---- Satan of. Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine, vol. 1, 1817, pp. 140-142.

---- ---- and Lucifer of Byron Compared. Knickerbocker, vol. 30, 1847, pp. 150-155.

---- ---- Satan of Paradise Lost. Dublin University Magazine, vol. 88, 1876, pp. 707-714.

---- Select Prose Works. Boston Quarterly Review, vol. 5, 1842, pp. 322-342.

---- Shadow of the Puritan War in. Catholic Presbyterian, by A. Macleod, vol. 9, 1883, pp.
169-176, 321-330.

---- Sonnets of, Pattison's edition. Academy, by J.A. Noble, vol. 24,
1883, pp. 57, 58.
  --Saturday Review, vol. 56, 1883, pp. 252, 253.
  --Spectator, Aug. 18, 1883, pp. 1062, 1063.
  --Athenæum, Sept. 1, 1883, pp. 263-265.

---- Spenser, and Shakspere. Victoria Magazine, vol. 25, 1875, pp. 856-868, 1059-1065; vol.
26, pp. 24-31, 108-117.

---- State Papers relating to. London Magazine, vol. 6 N.S., 1826, pp. 377-396.

---- Theology of. Boston Monthly Magazine, vol. 1, 1825, pp. 489-491.

---- Todd's Life of. Quarterly Review, vol. 36, 1827, pp. 29-61.
  --Monthly Review, vol. 3 N.S., 1826, pp. 258-273.
  --Museum of Foreign Literature, vol. 10, p. 67, etc.; vol. 11, pp. 114,
    etc., 385, etc.
  --Congregational Magazine, vol. 3, 1827, pp. 33-40.

---- Treatise on Christian Doctrine. Evangelical Magazine, vol. 4 N.S., 1826, pp. 371-375.

---- versus Robert Montgomery. Knickerbocker, vol. 3, 1834, pp. 120-134.

---- Works of. American Church Review, by J.H. Hanson, vol. 2, pp. 153, etc.

---- Youth of. Edinburgh Review, vol. 111, 1860, pp. 312-347;
  same article, Littell's Living Age, vol. 65, pp. 579-597.
  --Argosy, vol. 6, 1868, pp. 267-273.

       *       *       *       *       *

VII. CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF WORKS.

A Maske [Comus]                                                     1637

Lycidas                                                             1638
  (In Justa Edouardo King Naufrago)

Of Reformation touching Church-Discipline in England                1641

Of Prelatical Episcopacy                                            1641

Animadversions upon the Remonstrant's defence against Smectymnuus   1641

The Reason of Church-Government urg'd against Prelaty               1641

Apology against a Pamphlet called A Modest Confutation of the Animadversions, etc.        
1641

Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce                                  1643

Of Education.

Crown 8vo, Cloth. Price 3s. 6d. per Vol.; Hlf. Mor. 6s. 6d.

THE CONTEMPORARY SCIENCE SERIES.

EDITED BY HAVELOCK ELLIS.

Most of the vols. will be illustrated, containing between 300 and 400 pp. The first vol. will
be issued on Oct. 25, 1889. Others to follow at short intervals.

       *       *       *       *       *

The contemporary science series will bring within general reach of the English-speaking public
the best that is known and thought in all departments of modern scientific research. The influence
of the scientific spirit is now rapidly spreading in every field of human activity. Social
progress, it is felt, must be guided and accompanied by accurate knowledge,--knowledge which
is, in many departments, not yet open to the English reader. In the Contemporary Science Series
all the questions of modern life--the various social and politico-economical problems of to-day,
the most recent researches in the knowledge of man, the past and present experiences of the
race, and the nature of its environment--will be frankly investigated and clearly presented.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first volumes of the Series will be:--

THE EVOLUTION OF SEX. By Prof. PATRICK GEDDES and J. ARTHUR THOMSON. With 90 Illustrations,
and about 300 pages. [Now Ready.

ELECTRICITY IN MODERN LIFE. By G.W. DE TUNZELMANN. With 88 Illustrations. [Ready 25th November.

THE ORIGIN OF THE ARYANS. By Dr. ISAAC TAYLOR. With numerous Illustrations. [Ready 25th December.

The following Writers, among others, are preparing volumes for this Series:--

Prof. E.D. Cope, Prof. G.F. Fitzgerald, Prof. J. Geikie, G.L. Gomme, E.C.K. Gonner, Prof. J.
Jastrow (Wisconsin), E Sidney Hartland, Prof. C.H. Herford, J. Bland Sutton, Dr. C. Mercier,
Sidney Webb, Dr. Sims Woodhead, Dr. C.M. Woodward (St. Louis, Mo.), etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON: WALTER SCOTT, 24 Warwick Lane, Paternoster Row.

GREAT WRITERS.

A NEW SERIES OF CRITICAL BIOGRAPHIES.

Edited by Professor ERIC S. ROBERTSON, M.A.

MONTHLY SHILLING VOLUMES.

VOLUMES ALREADY ISSUED--

LIFE OF LONGFELLOW. By Prof. Eric S. Robertson. "A most readable little work."--Liverpool Mercury.

LIFE OF COLERIDGE. By Hall Caine. "Brief and vigorous, written throughout with spirit and great
literary skill."--Scotsman.

LIFE OF DICKENS. By Frank T. Marzials. "Notwithstanding the mass of matter that has been printed
relating to Dickens and his works ... we should, until we came across this volume, have been
at a loss to recommend any popular life of England's most popular novelist as being really
satisfactory. The difficulty is removed by Mr. Marzials's little book."--Athenæum.

LIFE OF DANTE GABRIEL ROSSETTI By J. Knight. "Mr. Knight's picture of the great poet and painter
is the fullest and best yet presented to the public."--The Graphic.

LIFE OF SAMUEL JOHNSON. By Colonel F. Grant. "Colonel Grant has performed his task with diligence,
sound judgment good taste, and accuracy."--Illustrated London News.

LIFE OF DARWIN. By G.T. Bettany. "Mr. G.T. Bettany's Life of Darwin is a sound and conscientious
work."--Saturday Review.

LIFE OF CHARLOTTE BRONTË. By A. Birrell. "Those who know much of Charlotte Brontë will learn
more, and those who know nothing about her will find all that is best worth learning in Mr.
Birrell's pleasant book."--St. James' Gazette.

LIFE OF THOMAS CARLYLE. By R. Garnett, LL.D. "This is an admirable book. Nothing could be more
felicitous and fairer than the way in which he takes us through Carlyle's life and works."--Pall
Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF ADAM SMITH. By R.B. Haldane, M.P. "Written with a perspicuity seldom exemplified when
dealing with economic science."--Scotsman.

LIFE OF KEATS. By W.M. Rossetti. "Valuable for the ample information which it contains."--Cambridge
Independent.

LIFE OF SHELLEY. By William Sharp. "The criticisms ... entitle this capital monograph to be
ranked with the best biographies of Shelley."--Westminster Review.

LIFE OF SMOLLETT. By David Hannay. "A capable record of a writer who still remains one of the
great masters of the English novel"--Saturday Review.

LIFE OF GOLDSMITH. By Austin Dobson. "The story of his literary and social life in London,
with all its humorous and pathetic vicissitudes, is here retold, as none could tell it better."-Daily
News.

LIFE OF SCOTT. By Professor Yonge. "For readers and lovers of the poems and novels of Sir Walter
Scott, this is a most enjoyable boot."--Aberdeen Free Press.

LIFE OF BURNS. By Professor Blackie. "The editor certainly made a hit when he persuaded Blackie
to write about Burns."--Pall Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF VICTOR HUGO-By Frank T. Marzials. "Mr. Marzials's volume presents to us, in a more
handy form than any English, or even French handbook gives, the summary of what, up to the
moment in which we write, is known or conjectured about the life of the great poet."--Saturday
Review.

LIFE OF EMERSON. By Richard Garnett, LL.D. "As to the larger section of the public, ... no
record of Emerson's life and work could be more desirable, both in breadth of treatment and
lucidity of style, than Dr. Garnett's."--Saturday Review.

LIFE OF GOETHE. By James Sime. "Mr. James Sime's competence as a biographer of Goethe, both
in respect of knowledge of his special subject, and of German literature generally, is beyond
question."--Manchester Guardian.

LIFE OF CONGREVE. By Edmund Gosse. "Mr. Gosse has written an admirable and most interesting
biography of a man of letters who is of particular interest to other men of letters."-The Academy.

LIFE OF BUNYAN. By Canon Venables. "A most intelligent, appreciative, and valuable memoir."--Scotsman.

LIFE OF CRABBE. By T.E. Kebbel. "No English poet since Shakespeare has observed certain aspects
of nature and of human life more closely; ... Mr. Kebbel's monograph is worthy of the subject."--Athenæum.

LIFE OF HEINE. By William Sharp. "This is an admirable monograph ... more fully written up
to the level of recent knowledge and criticism of its theme than any other English work."--Scotsman.

LIFE OF MILL. By W.L. Courtney. "A most sympathetic and discriminating memoir."--Glasgow Herald.

LIFE OF SCHILLER. By Henry W. Nevinson. "Presents the leading facts of the poet's life in a
neatly rounded picture, and gives an adequate critical estimate of each of Schiller's separate
works and the effect of the whole upon literature."--Scotsman.

LIFE OF CAPTAIN MARRYAT. By David Hannay. "We have nothing but praise for the manner in which
Mr. Hannay has done justice to him whom he well calls 'one of the most brilliant and the least
fairly recognised of English novelists.'"--Saturday Review.

Complete Bibliography to each volume, by J.P. ANDERSON, British Museum.

       *       *       *       *       *

Volumes are in preparation by Goldwin Smith, Frederick Wedmore, Oscar Browning, Arthur Symons,
W.E. Henley, Hermann Merivale, H.E. Watts, T.W. Rolleston, Cosmo Monkhouse, Dr. Garnett, Frank
T. Marzials, W.H. Pollock, John Addington Symonds, Stepniak, etc., etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIBRARY EDITION OF "GREAT WRITERS."--Printed on large paper of extra quality, in handsome binding,
Demy 8vo, price 2s. 6d.

Monthly Shilling Volumes. Cloth, cut or uncut edges.

THE CAMELOT SERIES.

EDITED BY ERNEST RHYS. VOLUMES ALREADY ISSUED--

ROMANCE OF KING ARTHUR.           Edited by E. Rhys. THOREAU'S WALDEN.                 Edited
by W.H. Dircks. ENGLISH OPIUM-EATER.              Edited by William Sharp. LANDOR'S CONVERSATIONS.
Edited by H. Ellis. PLUTARCH'S LIVES.                 Edited by B.J. Snell, M.A. RELIGIO MEDICI,
&c.               Edited by J.A. Symonds. SHELLEY'S LETTERS.                Edited by Ernest
Rhys. PROSE WRITINGS OF SWIFT.          Edited by W. Lewin. MY STUDY WINDOWS.             
Edited by R. Garnett, LL.D. GREAT ENGLISH PAINTERS.           Edited by W. Sharp. LORD BYRON'S
LETTERS.             Edited by M. Blind. ESSAYS BY LEIGH HUNT.             Edited by A. Symons.
LONGFELLOW'S PROSE.               Edited by W. Tirebuck. GREAT MUSICAL COMPOSERS.         
Edited by E. Sharp. MARCUS AURELIUS.                  Edited by Alice Zimmern. SPECIMEN DAYS
IN AMERICA.         By Walt Whitman. WHITE'S SELBORNE.                 Edited by Richard Jefferies.
DEFOE'S SINGLETON.                Edited by H. Halliday Sparling. MAZZINI'S ESSAYS.       
Edited by William Clarke. PROSE WRITINGS OF HEINE.          Edited by H. Ellis. REYNOLDS' DISCOURSES.
Edited by Helen Zimmern. PAPERS OF STEELE & ADDISON.       Edited by W. Lewin. BURNS'S LETTERS.
Edited by J. Logie Robertson, M.A. VOLSUNGA SAGA.                    Edited by H.H. Sparling.
SARTOR RESARTUS.                  Edited by Ernest Rhys. WRITINGS OF EMERSON.             
Edited by Percival Chubb. SENECA'S MORALS.                  Edited by Walter Clode. DEMOCRATIC
VISTAS.                By Walt Whitman. LIFE OF LORD HERBERT.             Edited by Will H.
Dircks. ENGLISH PROSE.                    Edited by Arthur Gallon. IBSEN'S PILLARS OF SOCIETY.
Edited by H. Ellis. FAIRY AND FOLK TALES.             Edited by W.B. Yeats. EPICTETUS.    
Edited by T.W. Rolleston. THE ENGLISH POETS.                By James Russell Lowell. ESSAYS
OF DR. JOHNSON.            Edited by Stuart T. Reid. ESSAYS OF WILLIAM HAZLITT.        Edited
by F. Carr. LANDOR'S PENTAMERON, &c.          Edited by H. Ellis. POE'S TALES AND ESSAYS. 
Edited by Ernest Rhys. VICAR OF WAKEFIELD.               By Oliver Goldsmith. POLITICAL ORATIONS.
Edited by William Clarke. CHESTERFIELD'S LETTERS.           Selected by C. Sayle. THOREAU'S
WEEK.                   Edited by Will H. Dircks. STORIES from CARLETON.            Edited
by W.B. Yeats. Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table.  By O.W. Holmes. JANE EYRE.               
By Charlotte Brontë.

The Canterbury Poets.

EDITED BY WILLIAM SHARP.

In SHILLING Monthly Volumes, Square 8vo. Well printed on fine toned paper, with Red-line Border,
and strongly bound in Cloth.

Cloth, Red Edges          1s. Cloth, Uncut Edges        1s. Red Roan, Gilt Edges      2s. 6d.
Pad. Morocco, Gilt Edges  5s.

THE FOLLOWING VOLUMES ARE NOW READY.

KEBLE'S CHRISTIAN YEAR.
COLERIDGE.                     Ed. by J. Skipsey.
LONGFELLOW.                    Ed. by E. Hope.
CAMPBELL.                      Ed. by J. Hogben.
SHELLEY.                       Edited by J. Skipsey.
WORDSWORTH.                    Edited by A.J. Symington.
BLAKE.                         Ed. by Joseph Skipsey.
WHITTIER.                      Ed. by Eva Hope.
POE.                           Edited by Joseph Skipsey.
CHATTERTON.                    Edited by John Richmond.
BURNS. Poems}                    Edited by
BURNS. Songs}                  Joseph Skipsey.
MARLOWE.                       Ed. by P.E. Pinkerton.
KEATS.                         Edited by John Hogben.
HERBERT.                       Edited by E. Rhys.
HUGO.                          Trans. by Dean Carrington.
COWPER.                        Edited by Eva Hope.
SHAKESPEARE.
  Songs, Poems, and Sonnets.   Edited by William Sharp.
EMERSON.                       Edited by W. Lewin.
SONNETS of this CENTURY.       Edited by William Sharp.
WHITMAN.                       Edited by E. Rhys.
SCOTT. Marmion, etc.
SCOTT. Lady of the Lake, etc.  Edited by William Sharp.
PRAED.                         Edited by Fred. Cooper.
HOGG.                          By his Daughter, Mrs Garden.
GOLDSMITH.                     Ed. by W. Tirebuck.
MACKAY'S LOVE LETTERS.
SPENSER.                       Edited by Hon. R. Noel
CHILDREN OF THE POETS.         Edited by Eric S. Robertson.
JONSON.                        Edited by J.A. Symonds.
BYRON (2 Vols.)                Ed. by M. Blind.
THE SONNETS OF EUROPE.         Edited by S. Waddington.
RAMSAY.                        Ed. by J.L. Robertson
DOBELL.                        Edited by Mrs. Dobell.
DAYS OF THE YEAR.              With Introduction by Wm. Sharp.
POPE.                          Edited by John Hogben.
HEINE.                         Edited by Mrs. Kroeker.
BEAUMONT & FLETCHER.           Edited by J.S. Fletcher.
BOWLES, LAMB, &c.              Edited by William Tirebuck.
EARLY ENGLISH POETRY.          Edited by H. Macaulay Fitzgibbon.
SEA MUSIC.                     Edited by Mrs Sharp.
HERRICK.                       Edited by Ernest Rhys.
BALLADES AND RONDEAUS.         Edited by J. Gleeson White.
IRISH MINSTRELSY.              Edited by H. Halliday Sparling.
MILTON'S PARADISE LOST.        Edited by J. Bradshaw, M.A., LL.D.
JACOBITE BALLADS.              Edited by G.S. Macquoid.
AUSTRALIAN BALLADS.            Edited by D.B.W. Sladen, B.A.
MOORE.                         Edited by John Dorrian.
BORDER BALLADS.                Edited by Graham R. Tomson.
SONG-TIDE.                     By P.B. Marston.
ODES OF HORACE.                Translations by Sir S. de Vere, Bt.
OSSIAN.                        Edited by G.E. Todd.
ELFIN MUSIC.                   Ed. by A. Waite.
SOUTHEY.                       Ed. by S.R. Thompson.
CHAUCER.                       Edited by F.N. Paton.
POEMS OF WILD LIFE.            Edited by Chas. G.D. Roberts, M.A.
PARADISE REGAINED.             Edited by J. Bradshaw, M.A., LL.D.
CRABBE.                        Edited by E. Lamplough.
DORA GREENWELL.                Edited by William Dorling.
FAUST.                         Edited by E. Craigmyle.
AMERICAN SONNETS.              Edited by William Sharp.
LANDOR'S POEMS.                Selected and Edited by E. Radford.
GREEK ANTHOLOGY.               Edited by Graham R. Tomson.
HUNT AND HOOD.                 Edited by J. Harwood Panting.

Crown 8vo, about 350 pp. each, Cloth Cover, 2s. 6d. per vol. Half-polished Morocco, gilt top, 5s.

COUNT TOLSTOÏ'S WORKS.

Arrangements have been made to publish, in Monthly Volumes, a series of translations of works
by the eminent Russian Novelist, Count Lyof. N. Tolstoï. The English reading public will be
introduced to an entirely new series of works by one who is probably the greatest living master
of fiction in Europe. To those unfamiliar with the charm of Russian fiction, and especially
with the works of Count Tolstoï, these volumes will come as a new revelation of power.

The following Volumes are already issued--

A RUSSIAN PROPRIETOR. THE COSSACKS. IVAN ILYITCH, AND OTHER STORIES. THE INVADERS, AND OTHER
STORIES. MY RELIGION. LIFE. MY CONFESSION. CHILDHOOD, BOYHOOD, YOUTH. THE PHYSIOLOGY OF WAR.
ANNA KARÉNINA. (2 VOLS.) WHAT TO DO? WAR AND PEACE. (4 VOLS.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Ready November 25th.

THE LONG EXILE, AND OTHER STORIES FOR CHILDREN.

OTHERS TO FOLLOW.

Small Crown 8vo. Printed on Antique Laid Paper. Cloth Elegant, Gilt Edges, Price 3/6.

SUMMER LEGENDS.

BY RUDOLPH BAUMBACH.

TRANSLATED BY MRS. HELEN B. DOLE.

This is a collection of charming fanciful stories translated from the German. In Germany they
have enjoyed remarkable popularity, a large number of editions having been sold. Rudolph Baumbach
deals with a wonderland which is all his own, though he suggests Hans Andersen in his simplicity
of treatment, and Heine in his delicacy, grace, and humour. These are stories which will appeal
vividly to the childish imagination, while the older reader will discern the satirical or humorous
application that underlies them.

       *       *       *       *       *

London: WALTER SCOTT, 24 Warwick Lane.

Windsor Series of Poetical Anthologies.

Printed on Antique Paper. Crown 8vo. Bound in Blue Cloth, each with suitable Emblematic Design
on Cover, Price 3s. 6d. Also in various Calf and Morocco Bindings. Edited by Mrs. William Sharp.

Sonnets of this Century. With an Exhaustive Essay on the Sonnet. Edited by Wm. Sharp.

The Children of the Poets. An Anthology from English and American Writers of Three Centuries.
Edited by Professor Eric S. Robertson.

Sacred Song. A Volume of Religious Verse. Selected and arranged by Samuel Waddington.

A Century of Australian Song. Selected and Edited by Douglas B.W. Sladen, B.A., Oxon.

Jacobite Songs and Ballads. Selected and Edited, with Notes, by G.S. Macquoid.

Irish Minstrelsy. Edited, with Notes and Introduction, by H. Halliday Sparling.

The Sonnets of Europe. A Volume of Translations. Selected and arranged by Samuel Waddington.

Early English and Scottish Poetry. Selected and Edited by H. Macaulay Fitzgibbon.

Ballads of the North Countrie. Edited, with Introduction, by Graham R. Tomson.

Songs and Poems of the Sea. An Anthology of Poems Descriptive of the Sea. Edited by Mrs. William
Sharp.

Songs and Poems of Fairyland. An Anthology of English Fairy Poetry, selected and arranged,
with an Introduction, by Arthur Edward Waite.

Songs and Poems of the Great Dominion. Edited by W.D. Lighthall, of Montreal.

RECENT VOLUMES OF VERSE.

Edition de Luxe. Crown 4to, on Antique Paper, Price 12s. 6d. SONNETS OF THIS CENTURY. BY WILLIAM
SHARP.

Crown 8vo, Cloth, Bevelled Boards, Price 3s. 6d. each. IN FANCY DRESS. "IT IS THYSELF." BY
MARK ANDRE RAFFALOVICH. CAROLS FROM THE COAL-FIELDS: AND OTHER SONGS AND BALLADS. BY JOSEPH
SKIPSEY.

Cloth Gilt, Price 3s. LAST YEAR'S LEAVES. BY JOHN JERVIS BERESFORD, M.A.

Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, Price 3s. 6d. BALLADS AND OTHER POEMS. BY GEORGE ROBERTS HEDLEY.

Fourth Edition, Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, Price 3s. 6d. TALES AND BALLADS OF WEARSIDE. BY JOHN GREEN.

Second Edition. Price 3s. ROMANTIC BALLADS AND POEMS OF PHANTASY. BY WILLIAM SHARP.

Parchment Limp, 3s. DEATH'S DISGUISES AND OTHER SONNETS. BY FRANK T. MARZIALS.

NEW BOOKLETS.

Crown 8vo, in White Embossed Boards, Gilt Lettering, One Shilling each.

BY COUNT LEO TOLSTOÏ.

WHERE LOVE IS, THERE GOD IS ALSO. THE TWO PILGRIMS. WHAT MEN LIVE BY.

Published originally in Russia, as tracts for the people, these little stories, which Mr. Walter
Scott will issue separately early in February, in "booklet" form, possess all the grace, naïveté,
and power which characterise the work of Count Tolstoï, and while inculcating in the most penetrating
way the Christian ideas of love, humility, and charity, are perfect in their art form as stories
pure and simple.

ADAPTED FOR PRESENTATION AT EASTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

London: WALTER SCOTT, 24 Warwick Lane.

