THE CITIZEN-SOLDIER;

OR,

MEMOIRS OF A VOLUNTEER.

BY

JOHN BEATTY.

       *       *       *       *       *

          CINCINNATI:
          WILSTACH, BALDWIN & CO., PUBLISHERS,
          NOS. 141 AND 143 RACE STREET.
          1879.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1879, by

ELLEN B. HENDERSON,

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

TO MY BROTHER,

MAJOR WILLIAM GURLEY BEATTY,

WHOSE GENEROUS SACRIFICE OF HIS OWN INCLINATION AT THE

COMMENCEMENT OF THE WAR, AND FAITHFUL DEVOTION

TO MY FAMILY AND BUSINESS,

ENABLED ME TO ENTER THE ARMY AND REMAIN THREE YEARS,

THIS VOLUME

IS RESPECTFULLY AND AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.

INTRODUCTORY.

In the lifetime of all who arrive at mature age, there comes a period when a strong desire
is felt to know more of the past, especially to know more of those from whom we claim descent.
Many find even their chief pleasure in searching among parish records and local histories for
some knowledge of ancestors, who for a hundred or five hundred years have been sleeping in
the grave. Long pilgrimages are made to the Old World for this purpose, and when the traveler
discovers in the crowded church-yard a moss-covered, crumbling stone, which bears the name
he seeks, he takes infinite pains to decipher the half-obliterated epitaph, and finds in this
often what he regards as ample remuneration for all his trouble. How vastly greater would be
his satisfaction if he could obtain even the simplest and briefest history of those in whom
he takes so deep an interest. Who were they? How were their days spent, and amongst what surroundings?
What were their thoughts, fears, hopes, acts? Who were their associates, and on which side
of the great questions of the day did they stand? A full or even partial answer to these queries
would possess for him an incalculable value.

So, sitting here to-night, in my little library, with wife and children near, and by God's
great kindness all in life and health, I look forward one, two, five hundred years, and see
in each succeeding century, and possibly in each generation, so long as the name shall last,
a wonder-eyed boy, curious youth, or inquisitive old man, exploring closets and libraries for
things of the old time, stumbling finally on this volume, which has, by the charity of the
State Librarian, still been preserved; he discovers, with quickening pulse, that it bears his
own name, and that it was written for him by one whose body has for centuries been dust. Dull
and uninteresting as it may be to others, for him it will possess an inexpressible charm. It
is his own blood speaking to him from the shadowy and almost forgotten past. The message may
be poorly written, the matter in the main may be worthless, and the greater events recorded
may be dwarfed by more recent and important ones, but the volume is nevertheless of absorbing
interest to him, for by it he is enabled to look into the face and heart of one of his own
kin, who lived when the Nation was young. In leaving this unpretentious record, therefore,
I seek to do simply what I would have had my fathers do for me.

Kinsmen of the coming centuries, I bid you hail and godspeed!

COLUMBUS, December 16, 1878.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Third Ohio Volunteer Infantry served under two separate terms of enlistment--the one for
three months, and the other for three years.

The regiment was organized April 21, 1861, and on April 27th it was mustered into the United
States service, with the following field officers: Isaac H. Marrow, Colonel; John Beatty, Lieutenant
Colonel, and J. Warren Keifer, Major.

The writer's record begins with the day on which his regiment entered Virginia, June 22, 1861,
and ends on January 1, 1864. He does not undertake to present a history of the organizations
with which he was connected, nor does he attempt to describe the operations of armies. His
record consists merely of matters which came under his own observation, and of camp gossip,
rumors, trifling incidents, idle speculations, and the numberless items, small and great, which,
in one way and another, enter into and affect the life of a soldier. In short, he has sought
simply to gather up the scraps which fell in his way, leaving to other and more competent hands
the weightier matters of the great civil war.

Many errors of opinion and of fact he might now correct, and many items which appear unworthy
of a paragraph he might now strike out, but he prefers to leave the record as it was written,
when cyclopedias could not be consulted, nor time taken for thorough investigation.

Who can really know what an army is unless he mingles with the individuals who compose it,
and learns how they live, think, talk, and act?

THE CITIZEN SOLDIER;

OR,

MEMOIRS OF A VOLUNTEER.

       *       *       *       *       *

JUNE, 1861.

22. Arrived at Bellaire at 3 P. M. There is trouble in the neighborhood of Grafton. Have been
ordered to that place.

The Third is now on the Virginia side, and will in a few minutes take the cars.

23. Reached Grafton at 1 P. M. All avowed secessionists have run away; but there are, doubtless,
many persons here still who sympathize with the enemy, and who secretly inform him of all our
movements.

24. Colonel Marrow and I dined with Colonel Smith, member of the Virginia Legislature. He professes
to be a Union man, but his sympathies are evidently with the South. He feels that the South
is wrong, but does not relish the idea of Ohio troops coming upon Virginia soil to fight Virginians.
The Union sentiment here is said to be strengthening daily.

26. Arrived at Clarksburg about midnight, and remained on the cars until morning. We are now
encamped on a hillside, and for the first time my bed is made in my own tent.

Clarksburg has apparently stood still for fifty years. Most of the houses are old style, built
by the fathers and grandfathers of the present occupants. Here, for the first time, we find
slaves, each of the wealthier, or, rather, each of the well-to-do, families owning a few.

There are probably thirty-five hundred troops in this vicinity--the Third, Fourth, Eighteenth,
Nineteenth, and part of the Twenty-second Ohio, one company of cavalry, and one of artillery.
Rumors of skirmishes and small fights a few miles off; but as yet the only gunpowder we have
smelled is our own.

28. At twelve o'clock to-day our battalion left Clarksburg, followed a stream called Elk creek
for eight miles, and then encamped for the night. This is the first march on foot we have made.
The country through which we passed is extremely hilly and broken, but apparently fertile.
If the people of Western Virginia were united against us, it would be almost impossible for
our army to advance. In many places the creek on one side, and the perpendicular banks on the
other, leave a strip barely wide enough for a wagon road.

Buckhannon, twenty miles in advance of us, is said to be in the hands of the secession troops.
To-morrow, or the day after, if they do not leave, a battle will take place. Our men appear
eager for the fray, and I pray they may be as successful in the fight as they are anxious for one.

29. It is half-past eight o'clock, and we are still but eight miles from Clarksburg. We were
informed this morning that the secession troops had left Buckhannon, and fallen back to their
fortifications at Laurel Hill and Rich mountain. It is said General McClellan will be here
to-morrow, and take command of the forces in person.

In enumerating the troops in this vicinity, I omitted to mention Colonel Robert McCook's Dutch
regiment, which is in camp two miles from us. The Seventh Ohio Infantry is now at Clarksburg,
and will, I think, move in this direction to-morrow.

Provisions outside of camp are very scarce. I took breakfast with a farmer this morning, and
can say truly that I have eaten much better meals in my life. We had coffee without sugar,
short-cake without butter, and a little salt pork, exceedingly fat. I asked him what the charge
was, and he said "Ninepence," which means one shilling. I rejoiced his old soul by giving him
two shillings.

The country people here have been grossly deceived by their political leaders. They have been
made to believe that Lincoln was elected for the sole purpose of liberating the negro; that
our army is marching into Virginia to free their slaves, destroy their property, and murder
their families; that we, not they, have set the Constitution and laws at defiance, and that
in resisting us they are simply defending their homes and fighting for their constitutional rights.

JULY, 1861.

2. Reached Buckhannon at 5 P. M., and encamped beside the Fourth Ohio, in a meadow, one mile
from town. The country through which we marched is exceedingly hilly; or, perhaps, I might
say mountainous. The scenery is delightful. The road for miles is cut around great hills, and
is just wide enough for a wagon. A step to the left would send one tumbling a hundred or two
hundred feet below, and to the right the hills rise hundreds of feet above. The hills, half
way to their summits, are covered with corn, wheat, or grass, while further up the forest is
as dense as it could well have been a hundred years ago.

3. For the first time to-day, I saw men bringing tobacco to market in bags. One old man brought
a bag of natural leaf into camp to sell to the soldiers, price ten cents per pound. He brought
it to a poor market, however, for the men have been bankrupt for weeks, and could not buy tobacco
at a dime a bagfull.

4. The Fourth has passed off quietly in the little town of Buckhannon and in camp.

At ten o'clock the Third and Fourth Regiments were reviewed by General McClellan. The day was
excessively warm, and the men, buttoned up in their dress-coats, were much wearied when the
parade was over.

In the court-house this evening, the soldiers had what they call a "stag dance." Camp life
to a young man who has nothing specially to tie him to home has many attractions--abundance
of company, continual excitement, and all the fun and frolic that a thousand light-hearted
boys can devise.

To-night, in one tent, a dozen or more are singing "Dixie" at the top of their voices. In another
"The Star-Spangled Banner" is being executed so horribly that even a secessionist ought to
pity the poor tune. Stories, cards, wrestling, boxing, racing, all these and a thousand other
things enter into a day in camp. The roving, uncertain life of a soldier has a tendency to
harden and demoralize most men. The restraints of home, family, and society are not felt. The
fact that a few hours may put them in battle, where their lives will not be worth a fig, is
forgotten. They think a hundred times less of the perils by which they may be surrounded than
their friends do at home. They encourage and strengthen each other to such an extent that,
when exposed to danger, imminent though it be, they do not seem to realize it.

7. On the 5th instant a scouting party, under Captain Lawson, started for Middle Fork bridge,
a point eighteen miles from camp. At eight o'clock last night, when I brought the battalion
from the drill-ground, I found that a messenger had arrived with intelligence that Lawson had
been surrounded by a force of probably four hundred, and that, in the engagement, one of his
men had been killed and three wounded. The camp was alive with excitement. Each company of
the Third had contributed five men to Captain Lawson's detachment, and each company, therefore,
felt a special interest in it. The messenger stated that Captain Lawson was in great need of
help, and General McClellan at once ordered four companies of infantry and twenty mounted men
to move to his assistance. I had command of the detachment, and left camp about nine o'clock
P. M., accompanied by a guide. The night was dark. My command moved on silently and rapidly.
After proceeding about three miles, we left the turnpike and turned onto a narrow, broken,
bad road, leading through the woods, which we followed about eight miles, when we met Captain
Lawson's detachment on its way back. Here we removed the wounded from the farm wagon in which
they had been conveyed thus far, to an ambulance brought with us for the purpose, countermarched,
and reached our quarters about three o'clock this morning.

I will not undertake to give the details of Captain Lawson's skirmish. I may say, however,
that the number of the enemy killed and wounded, lacerated and torn, by Corporal Casey, was
beyond all computation. Had the rebels not succeeded in getting a covered bridge between themselves
and the invincible Irishman, he would, if we may believe his own statement, have annihilated
the whole force, and brought back the head of their commanding officer on the point of his bayonet.

8. This morning, at seven o'clock, our tents were struck, and, with General McClellan and staff
in advance, we moved to Middle Fork bridge. It was here that Captain Lawson's skirmish on Saturday
had occurred. The man killed had been buried by the Fourth Ohio before our arrival. Almost
every house along the road is deserted by the men, the women sometimes remaining. The few Union
men of this section have, for weeks past, been hiding away in the hills. Now the secessionists
have taken to the woods. The utmost bitterness of feeling exists between the two. A man was
found to-day, within a half mile of this camp, with his head cut off and entrails ripped out,
probably a Union man who had been hounded down and killed. The Dutch regiment (McCook's), when
it took possession of the bridge, had a slight skirmish with the enemy, and, I learn, killed
two men. On the day after to-morrow I apprehend the first great battle will be fought in Western
Virginia.

I ate breakfast in Buckhannon at six o'clock A. M., and now, at six o'clock P. M. am awaiting
my second meal.

The boys, I ascertain, searched one secession house on the road, and found three guns and a
small amount of ammunition. The guns were hunting pieces, all loaded. The woman of the house
was very indignant, and spoke in disrespectful terms of the Union men of the neighborhood,
whom she suspected of instigating the search. She said she "had come from a higher sphere than
they, and would not lay down with dogs." She was an Eastern Virginia woman, and, although poor
as a church mouse, thought herself superior to West Virginia people. As an indication of this
lady's refinement and loyalty, it is only necessary to say that a day or two before she had
displayed a secession flag made, as she very frankly told the soldiers, of the tail of an old
shirt, with J. D. and S. C. on it, the letters standing for Jefferson Davis and the Southern
Confederacy.

Four or five thousand men are encamped here, huddled together in a little circular valley,
with high hills surrounding. A company of cavalry is just going by my tent on the road toward
Beverly, probably to watch the front.

As we were leaving camp this morning, an officer of an Ohio regiment rode at break-neck speed
along the line, inquiring for General McClellan, and yelling, as he passed, that four companies
of the regiment to which he belongs had been surrounded at Glendale, by twelve hundred secessionists,
under O. Jennings Wise. Our men, misapprehending the statement, thought Buckhannon had been
attacked, and were in a great state of excitement.

The officers of General Schleich's staff were with me on to-day's march, and the younger members,
Captains Hunter and Dubois, got off whatever poetry they had in them of a military cast. "On
Linden when the sun was low," was recited to the hills of Western Virginia in a manner that
must have touched even the stoniest of them. I could think of nothing but "There was a sound
of revelry by night," and as this was not particularly applicable to the occasion, owing to
the exceeding brightness of the sun, and the entire absence of all revelry, I thought best
not to astonish my companions by exhibiting my knowledge of the poets.

West Virginia hogs are the longest, lankest, boniest animals in creation. I am reminded of
this by that broth of an Irish lad, Conway, who says, in substance, and with a broad Celtic
accent, that their noses have to be sharpened every morning to enable them to pick a living
among the rocks.

Colonel Marrow informs me that an attack is apprehended to-night. We have sent out strong pickets.
The cannon are so placed as to shoot up the road. Our regiment is to form on the left of the
turnpike, and the Dutch regiment on the right, in case the secession forces should be bold
enough to come down on us.

9. Moved from the Middle Fork of the Buckhannon river at seven o'clock this morning, and arrived
at Roaring creek at four P. M. We came over the hills with all the pomp and circumstance of
glorious war; infantry, cavalry, artillery, and hundreds of army wagons; the whole stretching
along the mountain road for miles. The tops of the Alleghanies can now be seen plainly. We
are at the foot of Rich mountain, encamped where our brothers of the secession order pitched
their tents last night. Our advance guard gave them a few shots and they fled precipitately
to the mountains, burning the bridge behind them. When our regiment arrived a few shots were
heard, and the bayonets and bright barrels of the enemy's guns could be seen on the hills.

It clouded up shortly after, and before we had pitched our tents, the clouds came over Rich
mountain, settling down upon and hiding its summit entirely. Heaven gave us a specimen of its
artillery firing, and a heavy shower fell, drenching us all completely. As I write, the sound
of a cannon comes booming over the mountain. There it goes again! Whether it is at Phillippi
or Laurel Hill, I can not tell. Certain it is that the portion of our army advancing up the
Valley river is in battle, somewhere, and not many miles away.

We do not know the strength of our opponents, nor the character and extent of their fortifications.
These mountain passes must be ugly things to go through when in possession of an enemy; our
boys look forward, however, to a day of battle as one of rare sport. I do not. I endeavor to
picture to myself all its terrors, so that I may not be surprised and dumbfounded when the
shock comes. Our army is probably now making one of the most interesting chapters of American
history. God grant it may be a chapter our Northern people will not be ashamed to read!

I am not confident of a speedy termination of the war. These people are in the wrong, but have
been made to believe they are in the right--that we are the invaders of their hearthstones,
come to conquer and destroy. That they will fight with desperation, I have no doubt. Nature
has fortified the country for them. He is foolishly oversanguine who predicts an easy victory
over such a people, intrenched amidst mountains and hills. I believe the war will run into
a war of emancipation, and when it ends African slavery will have ended also. It would not,
perhaps, be politic to say so, but if I had the army in my own hands, I would take a short
cut to what I am sure will be the end--commence the work of emancipation at once, and leave
every foot of soil behind me free.

10. From the best information obtainable, we are led to believe the mountains and hills lying
between this place and Beverly are strongly fortified and full of men. We can see a part of
the enemy's fortifications very plainly from a hill west of camp. Our regiment was ordered
to be in readiness to march, and was under arms two hours. During this time the Dutch regiment
(McCook's), the Fourth Ohio, four pieces of artillery, one company of cavalry, with General
McClellan, marched to the front, the Dutchmen in advance. They proceeded, say a mile, when
they overhauled the enemy's pickets, and in the little skirmish which ensued one man of McCook's
regiment was shot, and two of the enemy captured. By these prisoners it is affirmed that eight
or nine thousand men are in the hills before us, well armed, with heavy artillery planted so
as to command the road for miles. How true this is we can not tell. Enough, however, has been
learned to satisfy McClellan that it is not advisable to attack to-day. What surprises me is
that the General should know so little about the character of the country, the number of the
enemy, and the extent of his fortifications.

During the day, Colonel Marrow, apparently under a high state of excitement, informed me that
he had just had an interview with George (he usually speaks of General McClellan in this familiar
way), that an attack was to be made, and the Third was to lead the column. He desired me, therefore,
to get out my horse at once, take four men with me, and search the woods in our front for a
practicable road to the enemy. I asked if General McClellan had given him any information that
would aid me in this enterprise, such as the position of the rebels, the location of their
outposts, their distance from us, and the character of the country between our camp and theirs.
He replied that George had not. It occurred to me that four men were rather too few, if the
work contemplated was a reconnoissance, and rather too many if the service required was simply
that for which spies are usually employed. I therefore spoke distrustingly of the proposed
expedition, and questioned the propriety of sending so small a force, so utterly without information,
upon so hazardous an enterprise, and apparently so foolish a one. My language gave offense,
and when I finally inquired what four men I should take, the Colonel told me, rather abruptly,
to take whom I pleased, and look where I pleased. His manner, rather than his words, indicated
a doubt of my courage, and I turned from him, mounted my horse, and started for the front,
determined to obey the order to the best of my ability, but to risk the lives of no others
on what was evidently a fool's errand. After proceeding some distance, I found that the wagon-master
was at my heels, and, together, we traced every cow-path and mountain road we could find, and
passed half a mile beyond the enemy's outposts, and over ground visited by his scouts almost
hourly. When I returned to make my report, I was curtly informed that no report was desired,
as the plan had been changed.

A little after midnight the Colonel returned from head-quarters with important information,
which he desired to communicate to the regiment. The men were, therefore, ordered to turn out,
and came hesitatingly and sleepily from their tents. They looked like shadows as they gathered
in the darkness about their chieftain. It was the hour when graveyards are supposed to yawn,
and the sheeted dead to walk abroad.

As this speech progressed my hair began to stiffen at the roots, and a chilly sensation like
that which might ensue from the unexpected and clammy touch of the dead, ran through me. It
was hard to die so young and so far from home. Theological questions which before had attracted
little or no attention, now came uppermost in our minds. We thought of mothers, wives, sweethearts--of
opportunities lost, and of good advice disregarded. Some soldiers kicked together the expiring
fragments of a camp-fire, and the little blaze which sprang up revealed scores of pallid faces.
In short, we all wanted to go home.

When a boy I had read Plutarch, and knew something of the great warriors of the old time; but
I could not, for the life of me, recall an instance wherein they had made such an address to
their soldiers on the eve of battle. It was their habit, at such a time, to speak encouragingly
and hopefully. With all due respect, therefore, for the superior rank and wisdom of the Colonel,
I plucked him by the sleeve, took him one side, and modestly suggested that his speech had
had rather a depressing effect on the regiment, and had taken that spirit out of the boys so
necessary to enable them to do well in battle. I urged him to correct the mistake, and speak
to them hopefully. He replied that what he had said was true, and they should know the truth.

The morning dawned; but instead of being called upon to lead the column, we were left to the
inglorious duty of guarding the camp, while other regiments moved forward toward the enemy's
line. In half an hour, in all probability, the work of destruction will commence. I began this
memoranda on the evening of the 10th, and now close it on the morning of the 11th.

11. At 10 A. M. we were ordered to the front; passed quite a number of regiments on our way
thither, and finally took position not far from the enemy's works. We were now at the head
of the column. A small brook crossed the road at this point, and the thick woods concealed
us from the enemy. A few rods further on, a bend in the road gave us a good view of the entire
front of his fortifications. Major Keifer and a few other gentlemen, in their anxiety to get
more definite information in regard to the position of the secessionists, and the extent of
their works, went up the road, and were saluted by a shot from their battery. We expected every
moment to receive an order to advance. After a time, however, we ascertained that Rosecrans,
with a brigade, was seeking the enemy's rear by a mountain path, and we conjectured that, so
soon as he had reached it, we would be ordered to make the assault in front. It was a dark,
gloomy day, and the hours passed slowly.

Between two and three o'clock we heard shots in the rear of the fortifications; then volleys
of musketry, and the roar of artillery. Every man sprang to his feet, assured that the moment
for making the attack had arrived. General McClellan and staff came galloping up, and a thousand
faces turned to hear the order to advance; but no order was given. The General halted a few
paces from our line, and sat on his horse listening to the guns, apparently in doubt as to
what to do; and as he sat there with indecision stamped on every line of his countenance, the
battle grew fiercer in the enemy's rear. Every volley could be heard distinctly. There would
occasionally be a lull for a moment, and then the uproar would break out again with increased
violence. If the enemy is too strong for us to attack, what must be the fate of Rosecrans'
four regiments, cut off from us, and struggling against such odds? Hours passed; and as the
last straggling shots and final silence told us the battle had ended, gloom settled down on
every soldier's heart, and the belief grew strong that Rosecrans had been defeated, and his
brigade cut to pieces or captured. This belief grew to certain conviction soon after, when
we heard shout after shout go up from the fortifications in our front.

Major Keifer with two companies had, early in the afternoon, climbed the hill on our right
to look for a position from which artillery could be used effectively. The ground over which
he moved was broken and covered with a dense growth of trees and underbrush; finally an elevation
was discovered which commanded the enemy's camp, but before a road could be cut, and the artillery
brought up, it was too late in the day to begin the attack.

Night came on. It was intensely dark. About nine o'clock we were ordered to withdraw our pickets
quietly and return to our old quarters. On our way thither a rough voice cried: "Halt! Who
comes there?" And a thousand shadowy forms sprang up before us. The challenge was from Colonel
Robert McCook, and the regiment his. The scene reminded me of the one where

          "That whistle garrisoned the glen
           At once with full five hundred men,
           As if the yawning hill to heaven
           A subterranean host had given."

12. We were rejoiced this morning to hear of Rosecrans' success, and, at the same time, not
well pleased at the escape of the enemy under cover of night. We were ordered to move, and
got under way at eight o'clock. On the road we met General Rosecrans and staff. He was jubilant,
as well he might be, and as he rode by received the congratulations of the officers and cheers
of the men.

Arriving on yesterday's battle-field, the regiment was allowed a half hour for rest. The dead
had been gathered and placed in a long trench, which was still open. The wounded of both armies
were in hospital, receiving the attention of the surgeons. There were a few prisoners, most
of them too unwell to accompany their friends in retreat.

Soon after reaching the summit of Rich mountain, we caught glimpses of Tygart's valley, and
of Cheat mountain beyond, and before nightfall reached Beverly and went into camp.

13. Six or eight hundred Southern troops sent in a flag of truce, and surrendered unconditionally.
They are a portion of the force which fought Rosecrans at Rich mountain, and Morris at Laurel Hill.

We started up the Valley river at seven o'clock this morning, our regiment in the lead. Found
most of the houses deserted. Both Union men and secessionists had fled. The Southern troops,
retreating in this direction, had frightened the people greatly, by telling them that we shot
men, ravished women, and destroyed property. When within three-quarters of a mile of Huttonville,
we were informed that forty or fifty mounted secessionists were there. The order to double-quick
was given, and the regiment entered the village on a run. As we made a turn in the road, we
discovered a squad of cavalry retreating rapidly. The bridge over the river had been burned,
and was still smoking. Our troops sent up a hurrah and quickened their pace, but they had already
traveled eleven miles on a light breakfast, and were not in condition to run down cavalry.
That we might not lose at least one shot at the enemy, I got an Enfield rifle from one of the
men, galloped forward, and fired at the retreating squad. It was the best shot I could make,
and I am forced to say it was a very poor one, for no one fell. On second thought, it occurred
to me that it would have been criminal to have killed one of these men, for his death could
have had no possible effect on the result of the war.

Huttonville is a very small place at the foot of Cheat mountain. We halted there perhaps one
hour, to await the arrival of General McClellan; and when he came up, were ordered forward
to secure a mountain pass. It is thought fifteen hundred secessionists are a few miles ahead,
near the top of the mountain. Two Indiana regiments and one battery are with us. More troops
are probably following.

The man who owns the farm on which we are encamped is, with his family, sleeping in the woods
to-night, if, indeed, he sleeps at all.

14. The Ninth and Fourth Ohio, Fifteenth Indiana, and one company of cavalry, started up the
mountain between seven and eight o'clock. The Colonel being unwell, I followed with the Third.
Awful rumors were afloat of fortifications and rebels at the top; but we found no fortifications,
and as for the rebels, they were scampering for Staunton as fast as their legs could carry them.

This mountain scenery is magnificent. As we climbed the Cheat the views were the grandest I
ever looked upon. Nests of hills, appearing like eggs of the mountain; ravines so dark that
one could not guess their depth; openings, the ends of which seemed lost in a blue mist; broken-backed
mountains, long mountains, round mountains, mountains sloping gently to the summit; others
so steep a squirrel could hardly climb them; fatherly mountains, with their children clustered
about them, clothed in birch, pine, and cedar; mountain streams, sparkling now in the sunlight,
then dashing down into apparently fathomless abysses.

It was a beautiful day, and the march was delightful. The road is crooked beyond description,
but very solid and smooth.

The farmer on whose premises we are encamped has returned from the woods. He has discovered
that we are not so bad as we were reported. Most of the negroes have been left at home. Many
were in camp to-day with corn-bread, pies, and cakes to sell. Fox, my servant, went out this
afternoon and bought a basket of bread. He brought in two chickens also, which he said were
presented to him. I suspect Fox does not always tell the truth.

16. The Fourteenth Indiana and one company of cavalry went to the summit this morning to fortify.

The Colonel has gone to Beverly. The boys repeat his Rich mountain speech with slight variations:
"Men, there are ten thousand secessionists in Rich mountain, with forty rifled cannon, well
fortified. There's bloody work ahead. You are going to a butcher-shop rather than a battle.
Ten thousand men and forty rifled cannon! Hostler, you d--d scoundrel, why don't you wipe Jerome's
nose?" Jerome is the Colonel's horse, known in camp as the White Bull.

Conway, who has been detailed to attend to the Colonel's horses, is almost as good a speech-maker
as the Colonel. This, in brief, is Conway's address to the White Bull:

"Stand still there, now, or I'll make yer stand still. Hold up yer head there, now, or I'll
make yer hold it up. Keep quiet; what the h--ll yer 'bout there, now? D--n you! do you want
me to hit you a lick over the snoot, now--do you? Are you a inviten' me to pound you over the
head with a saw-log? D--n yer ugly pictures, whoa!"

18. This afternoon, when riding down to Huttonville, I met three or four hundred sorry-looking
soldiers. They were without arms. On inquiry, I found they were a part of the secession army,
who, finding no way of escape, had come into our lines and surrendered. They were badly dressed,
and a hard, dissolute-looking lot of men. To use the language of one of the soldiers, they
were "a milk-sickly set of fellows," and would have died off probably without any help from
us if they had been kept in the mountains a little longer. They were on their way to Staunton.
General McClellan had very generously provided them with provisions for three days, and wagons
to carry the sick and wounded; and so, footsore, weary, and chopfallen, they go over the hills.

An unpleasant rumor is in camp to-night, to the effect that General Patterson has been defeated
at Williamsport. This, if true, will counterbalance our successes in Western Virginia, and
make the game an even one.

The Southern soldiers mentioned above are encamped for the night a little over a mile from
here. About dusk I walked over to their camp. They were gathered around their fires preparing
supper. Many of them say they were deceived, and entered the service because they were led
to believe that the Northern army would confiscate their property, liberate their slaves, and
play the devil generally. As they thought this was true, there was nothing left for them to
do but to take up arms and defend themselves.

While we were at Buckhannon, an old farmer-looking man visited us daily, bringing tobacco,
corn-bread, and cucumber pickles. This innocent old gentleman proves to have been a spy, and
obtained his reward in the loss of a leg at Rich mountain.

19. To-day, eleven men belonging to a company of cavalry which accompanied the Fourteenth Indiana
to the Summit, were sent out on a scouting expedition. When about ten miles from camp, on the
opposite side of the mountain, they halted, and while watering their horses were fired upon.
One man was killed and three wounded. The other seven fled. Colonel Kimball sent out a detachment
to bring in the wounded; but whether it succeeded or not I have not heard.

A musician belonging to the Fourth Ohio, when six miles out of Beverly, on his way to Phillippi,
was fired upon and instantly killed. So goes what little there is of war in Western Virginia.

20. The most interesting of all days in the mountains is one on which the sky is filled with
floating clouds, not hiding it entirely, but leaving here and there patches of blue. Then the
shadows shift from place to place, as the moving clouds either let in the sunshine or exclude
it. Standing at my tent-door at eleven o'clock in the morning, with a stiff breeze going, and
the clouds on the wing, we see a peak, now in the sunshine, then in the shadow, and the lights
and shadows chasing each other from point to point over the mountains, presenting altogether
a panorama most beautiful to look upon, and such an one as God only can present.

I can almost believe now that men become, to some extent, like the country in which they live.
In the plain country the inhabitants learn to traffic, come to regard money-getting as the
great object in life, and have but a dim perception of those higher emotions from which spring
the noblest acts. In a mountain country God has made many things sublime, and some things very
beautiful. The rugged, the smooth, the sunshine, and the shadow meet one at every turn. Here
are peaks getting the earliest sunlight of the morning, and the latest of the evening; ravines
so deep the light of day can never penetrate them; bold, rugged, perpendicular rocks, which
have breasted the storms for ages; gentle slopes, swelling away until their summits seem to
dip in the blue sky; streams, cold and clear, leaping from crag to crag, and rushing down nobody
knows whither. Like the country, may we not look to find the people unpolished, rugged and
uneven, capable of the noblest heroism or the most infernal villainy--their lives full of lights
and shadows, elevations and depressions?

The mountains, rising one above another, suggest, forcibly enough, the infinite power of the
Creator, and when the peaks come in contact with the clouds it requires but little imagination
to make one feel that God, as at Sinai, has set His foot upon the earth, and that earth and
heaven are really very near each other.

21. This morning, at two o'clock, I was rattled up by a sentinel, who had come to camp in hot
haste to inform me that he had seen and fired upon a body of twenty-five or more men, probably
the advance guard of the enemy. He desired me to send two companies to strengthen the outpost.
I preferred, however, to go myself to the scene of the trouble; and, after investigation, concluded
that the guard had been alarmed by a couple of cows.

Another lot of secession prisoners, some sixty in number, passed by this afternoon. They were
highly pleased with the manner in which they had been treated by their captors.

The sound of a musket is just heard on the picket post, three-quarters of a mile away, and
the shot is being repeated by our line of sentinels. * * * The whole camp has been in an uproar.
Many men, half asleep, rushed from their tents and fired off their guns in their company grounds.
Others, supposing the enemy near, became excited and discharged theirs also. The tents were
struck, Loomis' First Michigan Battery manned, and we awaited the attack, but none was made.
It was a false alarm. Some sentinel probably halted a stump and fired, thus rousing a thousand
men from their warm beds. This is the first night alarm we have had.

22. We hear that General Cox has been beaten on the Kanawha; that our forces have been repulsed
at Manassas Gap, and that our troops have been unsuccessful in Missouri. I trust the greater
part, if not all, of this is untrue.

We have been expecting orders to march, but they have not come. The men are very anxious to
be moving, and when moving, strange to say, always very anxious to stop.

23. Officers and men are low-spirited to-night. The news of yesterday has been confirmed. Our
army has been beaten at Manassas with terrible loss. General McClellan has left Beverly for
Washington. General Rosecrans will assume command in Western Virginia. We are informed that
twenty miles from us, in the direction of Staunton, some three thousand secessionists are in
camp. We shall probably move against them.

24. The news from Manassas Junction is a little more cheering, and all feel better to-day.

We have now a force of about four thousand men in this vicinity, and two or three thousand
at Beverly. We shall be in telegraphic communication with the North to-morrow.

The moon is at its full to-night, and one of the most beautiful sights I have witnessed was
its rising above the mountain. First the sky lighted up, then a halo appeared, then the edge
of the moon, not bigger than a star, then the half-moon, not semi-circular, but blazing up
like a great gaslight, and, finally, the full, round moon had climbed to the top, and seemed
to stop a moment to rest and look down on the valley.

27. The Colonel left for Ohio to-day, to be gone two weeks.

I came from the quarters of Brigadier-General Schleich a few minutes ago. He is a three-months'
brigadier, and a rampant demagogue. Schleich said that slaves who accompanied their masters
to the field, when captured, should be sent to Cuba and sold to pay the expenses of the war.
I suggested that it would be better to take them to Canada and liberate them, and that so soon
as the Government began to sell negroes to pay the expenses of the war I would throw up my
commission and go home. Schleich was a State Senator when the war began. He is what might be
called a tremendous little man, swears terribly, and imagines that he thereby shows his snap.
Snap, in his opinion, is indispensable to a military man. If snap is the only thing a soldier
needs, and profanity is snap, Schleich is a second Napoleon. This General Snap will go home,
at the expiration of his three-months' term, unregretted by officers and men. Major Hugh Ewing
will return with him. Last night the Major became thoroughly elevated, and he is not quite
sober yet. He thinks, when in his cups, that our generals are too careful of their men. "What
are a th-thousand men," said he, "when (hic) principle is at stake? Men's lives (hic) shouldn't
be thought of at such a time (hic). Amount to nothing (hic). Our generals are too d--d slow
(hic)." The Major is a man of excellent natural capacity, the son of Hon. Thomas Ewing, of
Lancaster, and brother-in-law of W. T. Sherman, now a colonel or brigadier-general in the army.
W. T. Sherman is the brother of John Sherman.

The news from Manassas is very bad. The disgraceful flight of our troops will do us more injury,
and is more to be regretted, than the loss of fifty thousand men. It will impart new life,
courage, and confidence to our enemies. They will say to their troops: "You see how these scoundrels
run when you stand up to them."

29. Was slightly unwell this morning; but about noon accompanied General Reynolds, Colonel
Wagner, Colonel Heffron, and a squad of cavalry, up the valley, and returned somewhat tired,
but quite well. Lieutenant-Colonel Owen was also of the party. He is fifty or fifty-five years
old, a thin, spare man, of very ordinary personal appearance, but of fine scientific and literary
attainments. For some years he was a professor in a Southern military school. He has held the
position of State Geologist of Indiana, and is the son of the celebrated Robert J. Owen, who
founded the Communist Society at New Harmony, Indiana. Every sprig, leaf, and stem on the route
suggested to Colonel Owen something to talk about, and he proved to be a very entertaining
companion.

General Reynolds is a graduate of West Point, and has the theory of war completely; but whether
he has the broad, practical common sense, more important than book knowledge, time will determine.
As yet he is an untried quantity, and, therefore, unknown.

30. About two o'clock P. M., for want of something better to do, I climbed the high mountain
in front of our camp. The side is as steep as the roof of a gothic house. By taking hold of
bushes and limbs of trees, after a half hour of very hard work, I managed to get to the top,
completely exhausted. The outlook was magnificent. Tygart's valley, the river winding through
it, and a boundless succession of mountains and ridges, all lay before me. My attention, however,
was soon diverted from the landscape to the huckleberries. They were abundant; and now and
then I stumbled on patches of delicious raspberries. I remained on the mountain, resting and
picking berries, until half-past four. I must be in camp at six to post my pickets, but there
was no occasion for haste. So, after a time, I started leisurely down, not the way I had come
up, but, as I supposed, down the eastern slope, a way, apparently, not so steep and difficult
as the one by which I had ascended. I traveled on, through vines and bushes, over fallen timber,
and under great trees, from which I could scarcely obtain a glimpse of the sky, until finally
I came to a mountain stream. I expected to find the road, not the stream, and began to be a
little uncertain as to my whereabouts. After reflection, I concluded I would be most likely
to reach camp by going up the stream, and so started. Trees in many places had fallen across
the ravine, and my progress was neither easy nor rapid; but I pushed on as best I could. I
never knew so well before what a mountain stream was. I scrambled over rocks and fallen trees,
and through thickets of laurel, until I was completely worn out. Lying down on the rocks, which
in high water formed part of the bed of the stream, I took a drink, looked at my watch, and
found it was half-past five. My pickets were to be posted at six. Having but a half hour left,
I started on. I could see no opening yet. The stream twisted and turned, keeping no one general
direction for twenty rods, and hardly for twenty feet. It grew smaller, and as the ravine narrowed
the way became more difficult. Six o'clock had now come. I could not see the sun, and only
occasionally could get glimpses of the sky. I began to realize that I was lost; but concluded
finally that I would climb the mountain again, and ascertain, if I could, in what direction
the camp lay. I have had some hard tramps, and have done some hard work, but never labored
half so hard in a whole week as I did for one hour in getting up that mountain, pushing through
vines, climbing over logs, breaking through brush. Three or four times I lay down out of breath,
utterly exhausted, and thought I would proceed no further until morning; but when I thought
of my pickets, and reflected that General Reynolds would not excuse a trip so foolish and untimely,
I made new efforts and pushed on. Finally I reached the summit of the mountain, but found it
not the one from which I had descended. Still higher mountains were around me. The trees and
bushes were so dense I could hardly see a rod before me. It was now seven o'clock, an hour
after the time when I should have been in camp. I lay down, determined to remain all night;
but my clothing was so thin that I soon became chilly, and so got up and started on again.
Once I became entangled in a wilderness of grapevines and briers, and had much difficulty in
getting through them. It was now half-past seven, and growing dark; but, fortunately, at this
time, I heard a dog bark, a good way off to the right, and, turning in that direction, I came
to a cow-path. Which end of it should I take? Either end, I concluded, would be better than
to remain where I was; so I worked myself into a dog-trot, wound down around the side of the
mountain, and reached the road, a mile and a half south of camp, and went to my quarters fast
as my legs could carry me. I found my detail for picket duty waiting and wondering what could
so detain the officer of the day.

31. The Fifteenth Indiana, Colonel Wagner, moved up the valley eight miles.

The sickly months are now on us. Considerable dysentery among the men, and many reported unfit
for duty.

My limbs are stiff and sore from yesterday's exercise, but my adventure proves to have been
a lucky one. The mountain path I stumbled on was unknown to us before, and we find, on inquiry,
that it leads over the ridges. The enemy might, by taking this path, follow it up during the
day, encamp almost within our picket lines without being discovered, and then, under cover
of night, or in the early morning, come down upon us while we were in our beds. It will be
picketed hereafter.

A private of Company E wrote home that he had killed two secessionists. A Zanesville paper
published the letter. When the boys of his company read it they obtained spades, called on
the soldier who had drawn so heavily on the credulity of his friends, and told him they had
come to bury the dead. The poor fellow protested, apologized, and excused himself as best he
could, but all to no purpose. He is never likely to hear the last of it.

I am reminded that when coming from Bellaire to Fetterman, a soldier doing guard duty on the
railroad said that a few mornings before he had gone out, killed two secessionists who were
just sitting down to breakfast, and then eaten the breakfast himself.

AUGUST, 1861.

1. It is said the pickets of the Fourteenth Indiana and the enemy's cavalry came in collision
to-day, and that three of the latter were killed.

It is now 9 P. M. Sergeants are calling the roll for the last time to-night. In half an hour
taps will be sounded and the lights extinguished in every private's tent. The first call in
the morning, reveille, is at five; breakfast call, six; surgeon's call, seven; drill, eight;
recall, eleven; dinner, twelve; drill again at four; recall, five; guard-mounting, half-past
five; first call for dress-parade, six; second call, half-past six; tattoo at nine, and taps
at half-past. So the day goes round.

Hardee for a month or more was a book of impenetrable mysteries. The words conveyed no idea
to my mind, and the movements described were utterly beyond my comprehension; but now the whole
thing comes almost without study.

2. Jerrolaman went out this afternoon and picked nearly a peck of blackberries. Berries of
various kinds are very abundant. The fox-grape is also found in great plenty, and as big as
one's thumb.

The Indianians are great ramblers. Lieutenant Bell says they can be traced all over the country,
for they not only eat all the berries, but nibble the thorns off the bushes.

General Reynolds told me, this evening, he thought it probable we would be attacked soon. Have
been distributing ammunition, forty rounds to the man.

My black horse was missing this morning. Conway looked for him the greater part of the day,
and finally found him in possession of an Indiana captain. It happened in this way: Captain
Rupp, Thirteenth Indiana, told his men he would give forty dollars for a sesesh horse, and
they took my horse out of the pasture, delivered it to him, and got the money. He rode the
horse up the valley to Colonel Wagner's station, and when he returned bragged considerably
over his good luck; but about dark Conway interviewed him on the subject, when a change came
o'er the spirit of his dream. Colonel Sullivan tells me the officers now talk to Rupp about
the fine points of his horse, ask to borrow him, and desire to know when he proposes to ride again.

A little group of soldiers are sitting around a camp-fire, not far away, entertaining each
other with stories and otherwise. Just now one of them lifts up his voice, and in a melancholy
strain sings:

          Somebody ---- "is weeping
            For gallant Andy Gay,
           Who now in death lies sleeping
            On the field of Monterey."

While I write he strikes into another air, and these are the words as I catch them:

          "Come back, come back, my purty fair maid!
           Ten thousand of my jinture on you I will bestow
           If you'll consent to marry me;
           Oh, do not say me no."

But the maid is indifferent to jintures, and replies indignantly:

          "Oh, hold your tongue, captain, your words are all in vain;
           I have a handsome sweetheart now across the main,
           And if I do not find him I'll mourn continuali."

More of this interesting dialogue between the captain and the pretty fair maid I can not catch.

The sky is clear, but the night very dark. I do not contemplate my ride to the picket posts
with any great degree of pleasure. A cowardly sentinel is more likely to shoot at you than
a brave one. The fears of the former do not give him time to consider whether the person advancing
is friend or foe.

3. We hear of the enemy daily. Colonel Kimball, on the mountain, and Colonel Wagner, up the
valley, are both in hourly expectation of an attack. The enemy, encouraged by his successes
at Manassas, will probably attempt to retrieve his losses in Western Virginia.

4. At one o'clock P. M. General Reynolds sent for me. Two of Colonel Wagner's companies had
been surrounded, and an attack on Wagner's position expected to-night. The enemy reported three
thousand strong. He desired me to send half of my regiment and two of Loomis' guns to the support
of Wagner. I took six companies and started up the valley. Reached Wagner's quarters at six
o'clock. Brought neither tents nor provisions, and to-night will turn in with the Indianians.

It is true that the enemy number three thousand; the main body being ten or fifteen miles away.
Their pickets and ours, however, are near each other; but General Reynolds was misinformed
as to two of Wagner's companies. They had not been surrounded.

To-morrow Colonel Wagner and I will make a reconnoissance, and ascertain if the rebels are
ready to fight. Wagner has six hundred and fifty men fit for duty, and I have four hundred.
Besides these, we have three pieces of artillery. Altogether, we expect to be able to hoe them
a pretty good row, if they should advance on us. Four of the enemy were captured to-day. A
company of cavalry is approaching. "Halt! who comes there?" cries the sentinel. "Lieutenant
Denny, without the countersign." "All right," shouts Colonel Wagner, "let him come." I write
with at least four fleas hopping about on my legs.

5. To-day we felt our way up the valley eight miles, but did not reach the rebels.

To-night our pickets were sure they heard firing off in the direction of Kanawha. If so, Cox
and Wise must be having a pleasant little interchange of lead.

The chaplain of the Thirteenth Indiana is the counterpart of Scott's Holy Clerk of Copmanhurst,
or the fighting friar of the times of Robin Hood. In answer to some request he has just said
that he will "go to thunder before doing it." The first time I saw this fighting parson was
at the burnt bridge near Huttonville. He had two revolvers and a hatchet in his belt, and appeared
more like a firebrand of war than a minister of peace. I now hear the rough voice of a braggadocio
captain in the adjoining tent, who, if we may believe his own story, is the most formidable
man alive. His hair-breadth escapes are innumerable, and his anxiety to get at the enemy is
intense. Is it not ancient Pistol come again to astonish the world by deeds of reckless daring?

We have sent out a scouting party, and hope to learn something more of the rebels during the
night. Wagner, Major Wood, Captain Abbott, and others are having a game of whist.

6. Our camp equipage came up to-day, so that we are now in our own tents.

Four of my companies are on picket, scattered up the valley for miles, and half of the other
two are doing guard duty in the neighborhood of the camp. I do not, by any means, approve of
throwing out such heavy pickets and scattering our men so much. We are in the presence of a
force probably twice as large as our own, and should keep our troops well in hand.

Our scouts have been busy; but, although they have brought in a few prisoners, mostly farmers
residing in the vicinity of the enemy's camp, we have obtained but little information respecting
the rebels. I intend to send out a scouting party in the morning. Lieutenant Driscoll will
command it. He is a brave, and, I think, prudent officer, and will leave camp at four o'clock,
follow the road six miles, then take to the mountains, and endeavor to reach a point where
he can overlook the enemy and estimate his strength.

7. The scouting party sent out this morning were conveyed by wagons six miles up the valley,
and were to take to the mountains, half a mile beyond. I instructed Lieutenant Driscoll to
exercise the utmost caution, and not take his men further than he thought reasonably safe.
Of course perfect safety is not expected. Our object, however, is to get information, not to
give it by losing the squad.

At eleven o'clock a courier came in hot haste from the front, to inform us that a flag of truce,
borne by a Confederate major, with an escort of six dragoons, was on the way to camp. Colonel
Wagner and I rode out to meet the party, and were introduced to Major Lee, the son, as I subsequently
ascertained, of General Robert E. Lee, of Virginia. The Major informed us that his communication
could only be imparted to our General, and a courier was at once dispatched to Huttonville.

At four o'clock General Reynolds arrived, accompanied by Colonel Sullivan and a company of
cavalry. Wagner and I joined the General's party, and all galloped to the outpost, to interview
the Confederate major. His letter contained a proposition to exchange prisoners captured by
the rebels at Manassas for those taken at Rich mountain. The General appointed a day on which
a definite answer should be returned, and Major Lee, accompanied by Lieutenant-Colonel Owen
and myself, rode to the outlying picket station, where his escort had been halted and detained.

Major Lee is near my own age, a heavy set, but well-proportioned man, somewhat inclined to
boast, not overly profound, and thoroughly impregnated with the idea that he is a Virginian
and a Lee withal. As I shook hands at parting with this scion of an illustrious house, he complimented
me by saying that he hoped soon to have the honor of meeting me on the battle-field. I assured
him that it would afford me pleasure, and I should make all reasonable efforts to gratify him
in this regard. I did not desire to fight, of course, but I was bound not to be excelled in
the matter of knightly courtesy.

8. Major Wood, Fifteenth Indiana, thought he heard chopping last night, and imagined that the
enemy was engaged in cutting a road to our rear.

Lieutenant Driscoll and party returned to-day. They slept on the mountains last night; were
inside the enemy's picket lines; heard reveille sounded this morning, but could not obtain
a view of the camp.

Have just returned from a sixteen-mile ride, visiting picket posts. The latter half of the
ride was after nightfall. Found officers and men vigilant and ready to meet an attack.

Obtained some fine huckleberries and blackberries on the mountain to-day. Had a blackberry
pie and pudding for dinner. Rather too much happiness for one day; but then the crust of the
pudding was tolerably tough. The grass is a foot high in parts of my tent, where it has not
been trodden down, and the gentle grasshopper makes music all the day, and likewise all the night.

Our fortifications are progressing slowly. If the enemy intends to attack at all, he will probably
do so before they are complete; and if he does not, the fortifications will be of no use to
us. But this is the philosophy of a lazy man, and very similar to that of the Irishman who
did not put roof on his cabin: when it rained he could not, and in fair weather he did not need it.

9. Pickets report firing, artillery and musketry, over the mountain, in the direction of Kimball.

The enemy's scouts were within three miles of our camp this afternoon, evidently looking for
a path that would enable them to get to our rear. Fifty men have just been sent in pursuit;
but owing to a little misunderstanding of instructions, I fear the expedition will be fruitless.
Colonel Wagner neither thinks clearly nor talks with any degree of exactness. He has a loose,
slip-shod, indefinite way with him, that tends to confusion and leads to misunderstandings
and trouble.

I have been over the mountain on our left, hunting up the paths and familiarizing myself with
the ground, so as to be ready to defeat any effort that may be made to turn our flank. Colonel
Owen has been investigating the mountain on our right. The Colonel is a good thinker, an excellent
conversationalist, and a very learned man. Geology is his darling, and he keeps one eye on
the enemy, and the other on the rocks.

10. My tent is on the bank of the Valley river. The water, clear as crystal, as it hurries
on over the rocks, keeps up a continuous murmur.

There will be a storm to-night. The sky is very dark, the wind rising, and every few minutes
a vivid flash of lightning illuminates the valley, and the thunder rolls off among the mountains
with a rumbling, echoing noise, like that which the gods might make in putting a hundred trains
of celestial artillery in position.

11. Lieutenant Bowen, of topographical engineers, and myself, with ten men, carrying axes and
guns, started up the mountain at seven o'clock this morning, followed a path to the crest,
or dividing ridge, and felled trees to obstruct the way as much as possible. Returned to camp
for dinner.

During the afternoon Lieutenant W. O. Merrill, Lieutenant Bowen, and I, ascended the mountain
again by a new route. After reaching the crest, we endeavored to find the path which Lieutenant
Bowen and I had traveled over in the morning, but were unable to do so. We continued our search
until it became quite dark, when the two engineers, as well as myself, became utterly bewildered.
Finally, Lieutenant Merrill took out his pocket compass, and said the camp was in that direction,
pointing with his hand. I insisted he was wrong; that he would not reach camp by going that
way. He insisted that he would, and must be governed by some general principles, and so started
off on his own hook, leaving us to pursue our own course. Finally Bowen lost confidence in
me, said I was not going in the right direction at all, and insisted that we should turn squarely
around, and go the opposite way. At last I yielded with many misgivings, and allowed him to
lead. After going down a thousand feet or more, we found ourselves in a ravine, through which
a small stream of water flowed. Following this, we finally reached the valley. We knew now
exactly where we were, and by wading the river reached the road, and so got to camp at nine
o'clock at night.

Merrill, who was governed by general principles, failed to strike the camp directly, strayed
three or four miles to the right of it, came down in Stewart's run valley, and did not reach
camp until about midnight.

On our trip to-day, we found a bear trap, made of heavy logs, the lid arranged to fall when
the bear entered and touched the bait.

12. This is the fourth day that Captain Cunard's company has been lying in the woods, three
miles from camp, guarding an important road, although a very rough and rugged one. Companies
upon duty like this, remain at their posts day and night, good weather and bad, without any
shelter, except that afforded by the trees, or by little booths constructed of logs and branches.
From the main station, where the captain remains, sub-pickets are sent out in charge of sergeants
and corporals, and these often make little houses of logs, which they cover with cedar boughs
or branches of laurel, and denominate forts. In the wilderness, to-day, I stumbled upon Fort
Stiner, the head-quarters of a sub-picket commanded by Corporal William Stiner, of the Third.
The Corporal and such of his men as were off duty, were sitting about a fire, heating coffee
and roasting slices of fat pork, preparing thus the noonday meal.

13. At noon Colonel Marrow, Major Keifer, and I, took dinner with Esquire Stalnaker, an old-style
man, born fifty years ago in the log house where he now lives. Two spinning-wheels were in
the best room, and rattled away with a music which carried me back to the pioneer days of Ohio.
A little girl of five or six years stole up to the wheel when the mother's back was turned,
and tried her skill on a roll. How proud and delighted she was when she had spun the wool into
a long, uneven thread, and secured it safely on the spindle. Surely, the child of the palace,
reared in the lap of luxury and with her hands in the mother's jewel-box, could not have been
happier or more triumphant in her bearing.

These West Virginians are uncultivated, uneducated and rough, and need the common school to
civilize and modernize them. Many have never seen a railroad, and the telegraph is to them
an incomprehensible mystery.

Governor Dennison has appointed a Mr. John G. Mitchell, of Columbus, adjutant of the Third.

14. Privates Vincent and Watson, sentinels of a sub-picket, under command of Corporal Stiner,
discovered a man stealing through the woods, and halted him.

Captain Cunard questioned the prisoner closely, asked whom he worked for, how much he was getting
a month for his services, and, finally, pointing to the long-legged military boots which he
was still holding in his hands, asked how much they cost. "Fifteen dollars," replied the prisoner.
"Fifteen dollars! Is not that rather more than a farm hand who gets but twelve dollars a month
can afford to pay for boots?" inquired the Captain. "Well, the fact is, boots is a gettin'
high since the war, as well as every thing else." But Captain Cunard was not satisfied. The
prisoner was not well up in the character he had undertaken to play, and was told that he must
go to head-quarters. Finding that he was caught, he at once threw off the mask, and confessed
that he was Captain J. A. De Lagniel, formerly of the regular army, but now in the Confederate
service. Wounded at the battle of Rich mountain, he had been secreted at a farm-house near
Beverly until able to travel, and was now trying to get around our pickets and reach the rebel
army. He had been in the mountains five days and four nights. The provisions with which he
started, and which consisted of a little bag of biscuit, had become moldy. He thought, from
the distance traveled, that he must be beyond our lines and out of danger.

De Lagniel is an educated man, and his wife and friends believe him to have been killed at
Rich mountain. He speaks in high terms of Captain Cunard, and says, when the latter began to
question him, he soon found it was useless to play Major Andre, for Paulding was before him,
too sharp to be deceived and too honest to be bribed. When De Lagniel was brought into camp
he was wet and shivering, weak, and thoroughly broken down by starvation, cold, exposure, and
fatigue. The officers supplied him with the clothing necessary to make him comfortable.

15. I have a hundred axmen in my charge, felling timber on the mountain, and constructing rough
breastworks to protect our left flank.

General Reynolds came up to-day to see De Lagniel. They are old acquaintances, were at West
Point together, and know each other like brothers.

The irrepressible Corporal Casey, who, in fact, had nothing whatever to do with the capture
of De Lagniel, is now surrounded by a little group of soldiers. He is talking to them about
the prisoner, who, since it is known that he is an acquaintance of General Reynolds, has become
a person of great importance in the camp. The Corporal speaks in the broadest Irish brogue,
and is telling his hearers that he knew the fellow was a sesesh at once; that he leveled his
musket at him and towld him to halt; that if he hadn't marched straight up to him he would
have put a minnie ball through his heart; that he had his gun cocked and his finger on the
trigger, and was a mind to shoot him anyway. Then he tells how he propounded this and that
question, which confused the prisoner, and finally concludes by saying that De Lagniel might
be d--d thankful indade that he escaped with his life.

The Corporal is the best-known man in the regiment. He prides himself greatly on the Middle
Fork "skrimage." A day or two after that affair, and at a time when whisky was so scarce that
it was worth its weight in gold, some officers called the Corporal up and asked him to give
them an account of the "skrimage." Before he entered upon the subject, it was suggested that
Captain Dubois, who had the little whisky there was in the party, should give him a taste to
loosen his tongue. The Corporal, nothing loth, took the flask, and, raising it to his mouth,
emptied it, to the utter dismay of the Captain and his friends. The dhrap had the effect desired.
The Corporal described, with great particularity, his manner of going into action, dwelt with
much emphasis on the hand-to-hand encounters, the thrusts, the parries, the final clubbing
of the musket, and the utter discomfiture and mortal wounding of his antagonist. In fact by
this time there were two of them; and finally, as the fight progressed, a dozen or more bounced
down on him. It was lively! There was no time for the loading of guns. Whack, thump, crack!
The head of one was broken, another lay dying of a bayonet thrust, and still another had perished
under the sledge-hammer blow of his fist. The ground was covered now with the slain. He stood
knee-deep in secesh blood; but a bugle sounded away off on the hills, and the d--d scoundrels
who were able to get away ran off as fast as their legs could carry them. Had they stood up
like men he would have destroyed the whole regiment; for, you see, he was just getting his
hand in. "But, Corporal," inquired Captain Hunter, "what were the other soldiers of your company
doing all this time?" "Bless your sowl, Captain, and do you think I had nothing to do but to
watch the boys? Be jabers, it was a day when every man had to look after himself."

16. The opinion seems to be growing that the rebels do not intend to attack us. They have put
it off too long.

A scouting party will start out in the morning, under the guidance of "old Leather Breeches,"
a primitive West Virginian, who has spent his life in the mountains. His right name is Bennett.
He wears an antiquated pair of buckskin pantaloons, and has a cabin-home on the mountain, twelve
miles away.

A tambourine is being played near by, and Fox, with a heart much lighter than his complexion,
is indulging in a double shuffle.

There are many snakes in the mountains: rattlesnakes, copperheads, blacksnakes, and almost
every other variety of the snake kind; in short, the boys have snake on the brain. To-day one
of the choppers made a sudden grab for his trouser leg; a snake was crawling up. He held the
loathsome reptile tightly by the head and body, and was fearfully agitated. A comrade slit
down the leg of the pantaloon with a knife, when lo! an innocent little roll of red flannel
was discovered.

The boys are very liberal in the bestowal of titles. Colonel Hogseye is indebted to them for
his commission. The Colonel commands an ax just now. Ordinarily he carries a musket, sleeps
and dines with his subordinates, and is not above traveling on foot.

Fox's real name, I ascertained lately, is William Washington. His brother, now in the service
of the surgeon, is called Handsome, and Colonel Marrow's servant is known by the boys as the
Bay Nigger.

17. Was awakened this morning at one o'clock, by a soldier in search of a surgeon. One of our
pickets had been wounded. The post was on the river bank. The sentinel saw a man approaching
on the opposite side of the river, challenged, and saw him level his gun. Both fired. The sentinel
was wounded in the leg by a small squirrel bullet. The other man was evidently wounded, for
after it became light enough he was traced half a mile by blood on the ground, weeds, and leaves.
The surgeon is of the opinion that the ball struck his left arm. From information obtained
this morning, it is believed this man is secreted not many miles away. A party of ten has been
sent to look for him.

This is by far the pleasantest camp we have ever had. The river runs its whole length. The
hospital and surgeons' tents are located on a very pretty little island, a quiet, retired spot,
festooned with vines, in the shadow of great trees, and carpeted with moss soft and velvety
as the best of Brussels.

18. The name of our camp is properly Elk Water, not Elk Fork. The little stream which comes
down to the river, from which the camp derives its name, is called Elk Water, because tradition
affirms that in early days the elk frequented the little valley through which it runs.

The fog has been going up from the mountains, and the rain coming down in the valley. The river
roars a little louder than usual, and its water is a little less clear.

The party sent in pursuit of the bushwhacker has returned. Found no one.

Two men were seen this evening, armed with rifles, prowling among the bushes near the place
where the affair of last night occurred. They were fired upon, but escaped.

An accident, which particularly interests my old company, occurred a few minutes ago. John
Heskett, Jeff Long, and four or five other men, were detailed from Company I for picket duty.
Heskett and Long are intimate friends, and were playing together, the one with a knife and
the other with a pocket pistol. The pistol was discharged accidentally, and the ball struck
Heskett in the neck, inflicting a serious wound, but whether fatal or not the surgeon can not
yet tell. The affair has cast a shadow over the company. Young Heskett bears himself bravely.
Long is inconsolable, and begs the boys to shoot him.

20. These mountain streams are unreliable. We had come to regard the one on which we are encamped
as a quiet, orderly little river, that would be good enough to notify us when it proposed to
swell out and overflow the adjacent country. In fact we had bragged about it, made all sorts
of complimentary mention of it, put our tents on its margin, and allowed it to encircle our
sick and wounded; but we have now lost all confidence in it. Yesterday, about noon, it began
to rise. It had been raining, and we thought it natural enough that the waters should increase
a little. At four o'clock it had swelled very considerably, but still kept within its bed of
rock and gravel, and we admired it all the more for the energy displayed in hurrying along
branches, logs, and sometimes whole trees. At six o'clock we found it was rising at the rate
of one foot per hour, and that the water had now crept to within a few feet of the hospital
tent, in which lay two wounded and a dozen or more of sick. Dr. McMeens became alarmed and
called for help. Thirty or more boys stripped, swam to the island, and removed the hospital
to higher ground--to the highest ground, in fact, which the island afforded. The boys returned,
and we felt safe. At seven o'clock, however, we found the river still rising rapidly. It covered
nearly the whole island. Logs, brush, green trees, and all manner of drift went sweeping by
at tremendous speed, and the water rushed over land which had been dry half an hour before,
with apparently as strong a current as that in the channel. We knew then that the sick and
wounded were in danger. How to rescue them was now the question. A raft was suggested; but
a raft could not be controlled in such a current, and if it went to pieces or was hurried away,
the sick and wounded must drown. Fortunately a better way was suggested; getting into a wagon,
I ordered the driver to go above some distance, so that we could move with the current, and
then ford the stream. After many difficulties, occasioned mainly by floating logs and driftwood,
and swimming the horses part of the way, we succeeded in getting over. I saw it was impossible
to carry the sick back, and that there was but one way to render them secure. I had the horses
unhitched, and told the driver to swim them back and bring over two or three more wagons. Two
more finally reached me, and one team, in attempting to cross, was carried down stream and
drowned. I had the three wagons placed on the highest point I could find, then chained together
and staked securely to the ground. Over the boxes of two of these we rolled the hospital tent,
and on this placed the sick and wounded, just as the water was creeping upon us. On the third
wagon we put the hospital stores. It was now quite dark. Not more than four feet square of
dry land remained of all our beautiful island; and the river was still rising. We watched the
water with much anxiety. At ten o'clock it reached the wagon hubs, and covered every foot of
the ground; but soon after we were pleased to see that it began to go down a little. Those
of us who could not get into the wagons had climbed the trees. At one o'clock it commenced
to rain again, when we managed to hoist a tent over the sick. At two o'clock the long-roll,
the signal for battle, was beaten in camp, and we could just hear, above the roar of the water,
the noise made by the men as they hurriedly turned out and fell into line.

It will not do, however, to conclude that this was altogether a night of terrors. It was, in
fact, not so very disagreeable after all. There was a by-play going on much of the time, which
served to illuminate the thick darkness, and divert our minds from the gloomier aspects of
the scene. Smith, the teamster who brought me across, had returned to the mainland with the
horses, and then swam back to the island. By midnight he had become very drunk. One of the
hospital attendants was very far gone in his cups, also. These two gentlemen did not seem to
get along amicably; in fact, they kept up a fusillade of words all night, and so kept us awake.
The teamster insisted that the hospital attendant should address him as Mr. Smith. The Smith
family, he argued, was of the highest respectability, and being an honored member of that family,
he would permit no man under the rank of a Major-General to call him Jake. George McClellan
sometimes addressed him by his christian name; but then George and he were Cincinnatians, old
neighbors, and intimate personal friends, and, of course, took liberties with each other. This
could not justify one who carried out pukes and slop-buckets from a field hospital in calling
him Jake, or even Jacob.

Mr. Smith's allusions to the hospital attendant were not received by that gentleman in the
most amiable spirit. He grew profane, and insisted that he was not only as good a man as Smith,
but a much better one, and he dared the bloviating mule scrubber to get down off his perch
and stand up before him like a man.

           So idt ever vos cheerful mitin;
             Vot dtho' idt be stormy mitoudt,
           Vot care I vor der vorld undt idts din,
             Ven dose I luf best vos about;

           So libft up your ghlass, mine modter,
             Undt libft up yours, Gretchen, my dear,
           Undt libft up your lauger, mine fadter,
             Undt drink du long life und good cheer."

21. Francis Union was shot and killed by one of our own sentinels last night, the ball entering
just under the nose. This resulted from the cowardice of the soldier who fired. He was afraid
to give the necessary challenge: four simple words: "Halt! who comes there?" would have saved
a life. This illustrates the danger there is in visiting pickets at night. If the sentinel
halts the man, the man may fire at the sentinel. The latter, if timid, therefore makes sure
of the first shot, and does not challenge. We buried the dead soldier with all the honors due
one of his rank, on a beautiful hill in the rear of our fortifications. He was with me on the
mountain chopping, a few days ago, strong, healthy, vigorous, and young. No more hard work for him!

23. With Wagner, Merrill, and Bowen, I rode up the mountain on our left this afternoon. We
had one field-glass and two spy-glasses, and obtained a magnificent view of the surrounding
country. Here and there we could see a cultivated spot or grazing farm on the top of the mountain;
but more frequently these were on the slopes. We descried one house with our glasses on the
very tiptop of Rich, and so far away that it seemed no larger than a tent. How the man of the
house gets up to his airy height and gets down again puzzles us. He has the first gush of the
sunshine in the morning, and the latest gleam in the evening. Very often, indeed, he must look
down upon the clouds, and, if he has a tender heart, pity the poor devils in the valley who
are being rained on continually. Is it a pleasant home? Has he wife and children in that mountain
nest? Is he a man of dogs and guns, who spends his years in the mountains and glens hunting
for bear and deer? May it not be the baronial castle of "old Leather Breeches" himself?

Away off to the east a cloud, black and heavy, is resting on a peak of the Cheat. Around it
the mountain is glowing in the summer sun, and appears soft and green. A gauze of shimmering
blue mantles the crest, darkens in the coves, and becomes quite black in the gorges. The rugged
rocks and scraggy trees, if there be any, are at this distance invisible, and nothing is seen
but what delights the eye and quickens the imagination.

We see by the papers that Ohio is preparing to organize a grand Union party, with a platform
on which both Republicans and Democrats can stand. I am glad of this. There should be but one
party in the North, and that party willing to make all sacrifices for the Union.

24. Last night a sentinel on one of the picket posts halted a stump and demanded the countersign.
No response being made, he fired. The entire Fifteenth Indiana sprang to arms; the cannoniers
gathered about their guns, and a thousand eyes peered into the darkness to get a glimpse of
the approaching enemy. But the stump, evidently intimidated by the first shot, did not advance,
and so the Hoosiers returned again to their couches, to dream, doubtless, of the subject of
a song very common now in camp, to wit:

          "Old Governor Wise,
           With his goggle eyes."

25. The Twenty-third Ohio, Colonel Scammon, will be here to-morrow. Stanley Matthews is the
lieutenant-colonel of this regiment, and my old friend, Rutherford B. Hayes, the major. The
latter is an accomplished gentleman, graduate of Harvard Law School, and will, it is said,
in all probability, succeed Gurley in Congress. Matthews has a fine reputation as a speaker
and lawyer, and, I have been told, is the most promising young man in Ohio. Scammon is a West
Pointer.

26. Five companies of the Twenty-third Ohio and five companies of the Ninth Ohio arrived to-day,
and are encamped in a maple grove about a mile below us. A detachment of cavalry came up also,
and is quartered near. Other regiments are coming. It is said the larger portion of the troops
in West Virginia are tending in this direction; but on what particular point it is proposed
to concentrate them rumor saith not.

General McClellan did not go far enough at first. After the defeat of Pegram, at Rich mountain,
and Garnett, at Laurel Hill, the Southern army of this section was utterly demoralized. It
scattered, and the men composing it, who were not captured, fled, terror stricken, to their
homes. We could have marched to Staunton without opposition, and taken possession of the very
strongholds the enemy is now fortifying against us. If in our advanced position supplies could
not have been obtained from the North, the army might have subsisted off the country. Thus,
by pushing vigorously forward, we could have divided the enemy's forces, and thus saved our
army in the East from humiliating defeat. This is the way it looks to me; but, after all, there
may have been a thousand good reasons for remaining here, of which I know nothing. One thing,
however, is, I think, very evident: a successful army, elated with victory, and eager to advance,
is not likely to be defeated by a dispirited opponent. One-fourth, at least, of the strength
of this army disappeared when it heard of the rebel triumphs on the Potomac.

       *       *       *       *       *

Latter part of August the writer was sent to Ohio for recruits for the regiment, and did not
return to camp until the middle of September.

SEPTEMBER 1861.

19. Reached camp yesterday at noon. My recruits arrived to-day.

The enemy was here in my absence in strength and majesty, and repeated, with a slight variation,
the grand exploit of the King of France, by

          "Marching up the hill with twenty thousand men,
           And straightway marching down again."

There was lively skirmishing for a few days, and hot work expected; but, for reasons unknown
to us, the enemy retired precipitately.

On Sunday morning last fifty men of the Sixth Ohio, when on picket, were surprised and captured.
My friend, Lieutenant Merrill, fell into the hands of the enemy, and is now probably on his
way to Castle Pinckney. Further than this our rebellious friends did us no damage. Our men,
at this point, killed Colonel Washington, wounded a few others, and further than this inflicted
but little injury upon the enemy. The country people near whom the rebels encamped say they
got to fighting among themselves. The North Carolinians were determined to go home, and regiments
from other States claimed that their term of service had expired, and wanted to leave. I am
glad they did, and trust they may go home, hang up their guns, and go to work like sensible
people, for then I could do the same.

23. This afternoon I rode by a mountain path to a log cabin in which a half dozen wounded Tennesseeans
are lying. One poor fellow had his leg amputated yesterday, and was very feeble. One had been
struck by a ball on the head and a buckshot in the lungs. Two boys were but slightly wounded,
and were in good spirits. To one of these--a jovial, pleasant boy--Dr. Seyes said, good-humoredly:
"You need have no fears of dying from a gunshot; you are too big a devil, and were born to
be hung." Colonel Marrow sought to question this same fellow in regard to the strength of the
enemy, when the boy said: "Are you a commissioned officer?" "Yes," replied Marrow. "Then,"
returned he, "you ought to know that a private soldier don't know anything."

In returning to camp, we followed a path which led to a place where a regiment of the rebels
had encamped one night. They had evidently become panic-stricken and left in hot haste. The
woods were strewn with knapsacks, blankets, and canteens.

The ride was a pleasant one. The path, first wild and rugged, finally led to a charming little
valley, through which Beckey's creek hurries down to the river. Leaving this, we traveled up
the side of a ravine, through which a little stream fretted and fumed, and dashed into spray
against slimy rocks, and then gathered itself up for another charge, and so pushed gallantly
on toward the valley and the sunshine.

What a glorious scene! The sky filled with stars; the rising moon; two mountain walls so high,
apparently, that one might step from them into heaven; the rapid river, the thousand white
tents dotting the valley, the camp fires, the shadowy forms of soldiers; in short, just enough
of heaven and earth visible to put one's fancy on the gallop. The boys are in groups about
their fires. The voice of the troubadour is heard. It is a pleasant song that he sings, and
I catch part of it.

          "The minstrel's returned from the war,
             With spirits as buoyant as air,
           And thus on the tuneful guitar
             He sings in the bower of the fair:
           The noise of the battle is over;
             The bugle no more calls to arms;
           A soldier no more, but a lover,
             I kneel to the power of thy charms.
           Sweet lady, dear lady, I'm thine;
             I bend to the magic of beauty,
           Though the banner and helmet are mine,
             Yet love calls the soldier to duty."

24. Our Indiana friends are providing for the winter by laying in a stock of household furniture
at very much less than its original cost, and without even consulting the owners. It is probable
that our Ohio boys steal occasionally, but they certainly do not prosecute the business openly
and courageously.

26. The Thirteenth Indiana, Sixth Ohio, and two pieces of artillery went up the valley at noon,
to feel the enemy. It rained during the afternoon, and since nightfall has poured down in torrents.
The poor fellows who are now trudging along in the darkness and storm, will think, doubtless,
of home and warm beds. It requires a pure article of patriotism, and a large quantity of it,
to make one oblivious for months at a time of all the comforts of civil life.

This is the day designated by the President for fasting and prayer. Parson Strong held service
in the regiment, and the Rev. Mr. Reed, of Zanesville, Ohio, delivered a very eloquent exhortation.
I trust the supplications of the Church and the people may have effect, and bring that Higher
Power to our assistance which hitherto has apparently not been with our arms especially.

27. To-night almost the entire valley is inundated. Many tents are waist high in water, and
where others stood this morning the water is ten feet deep. Two men of the Sixth Ohio are reported
drowned. The water got around them before they became aware of it, and in endeavoring to escape
they were swept down the stream and lost. The river seems to stretch from the base of one mountain
to the other, and the whole valley is one wild scene of excitement. Wherever a spot of dry
ground can be found, huge log fires are burning, and men by the dozen are grouped around them,
anxiously watching the water and discussing the situation. Tents have been hastily pitched
on the hills, and camp fires, each with its group of men, are blazing in many places along
the side of the mountain. The rain has fallen steadily all day.

28. The Thirteenth Indiana and Sixth Ohio returned. The reconnoissance was unsuccessful, the
weather being unfavorable.

OCTOBER, 1861.

2. Our camp is almost deserted. The tents of eight regiments dot the valley; but those of two
regiments and a half only are occupied. The Hoosiers have all gone to Cheat mountain summit.
They propose to steal upon the enemy during the night, take him by surprise, and thrash him
thoroughly. I pray they may be successful, for since Rich mountain our army has done nothing
worthy of a paragraph. Rosecrans' affair at Carnifex was a barren thing; certainly no battle
and no victory, and the operations in this vicinity have at no time risen to the dignity of
a skirmish.

Captain McDougal, with nearly one hundred men and three days' provisions, started up the valley
this morning, with instructions to go in sight of the enemy, the object being to lead the latter
to suppose the advance guard of our army is before him. By this device it is expected to keep
the enemy in our front from going to the assistance of the rebels now threatening Kimball.

3. To-night, half an hour ago, received a dispatch from the top of Cheat, which reads as follows:

"All back. Made a very interesting reconnoissance. Killed a large
number of the enemy. Very small loss on our side.   J. J. REYNOLDS,
                                                  Brigadier-General."

Why, when the battle was progressing so advantageously for our side, did they not go on? This,
then, is the result of the grand demonstration on the other side of the mountain.

McDougal's company returned, and report the enemy fallen back.

The frost has touched the foliage, and the mountain peaks look like mammoth bouquets; green,
red, yellow, and every modification of these colors appear mingled in every possible fanciful
and tasteful way.

Another dispatch has just come from the top of Cheat, written, I doubt not, after the Indianians
had returned to camp and drawn their whisky ration. It sounds bigger than the first. I copy it:

"Found the rebels drawn up in line of battle one mile outside of their fortifications, drove
them back to their intrenchments, and continued the fight four hours. Ten of our men wounded
and ten killed. Two or three hundred of the enemy killed."

If it be true that so many of the rebels were killed, it is probable that two thousand at least
were wounded; and when three hundred are killed and two thousand wounded, out of an army of
twelve or fifteen hundred men, the business is done up very thoroughly. The dispatch which
went to Richmond to-night, I have no doubt, stated that "the Federals attacked in great force,
outnumbering us two or three to one, and after a terrific engagement, lasting five hours, they
were repulsed at all points with great slaughter. Our loss one killed and five wounded. Federal
loss, five hundred killed and twenty-five hundred wounded." Thus are victories won and histories
made. Verily the pen is mightier than the sword.

4. The Indianians have been returning from the summit all day, straggling along in squads of
from three to a full company.

The men are tired, and the camp is quiet as a house. Six thousand are sleeping away a small
portion of their three weary years of military service. This time stretches out before them,
a broad, unknown, and extra-hazardous sea, with promise of some smooth sailing, but many days
and nights of heavy winds and waves, in which some--how many!--will be carried down.

Their thoughts have now forced the sentinel lines, leaped the mountains, jumped the rivers,
hastened home, and are lingering about the old fireside, looking in at the cupboard, and hovering
over faces and places that have been growing dearer to them every day for the last five months.
Old-fashioned places, tame and uninteresting then, but now how loved! And as for the faces,
they are those of mothers, wives, and sweethearts, around which are entwined the tenderest
of memories. But at daybreak, when reveille is sounded, these wanderers must come trooping
back again in time for "hard-tack" and double quick.

5. Some of the Indiana regiments are utterly beyond discipline. The men are good, stout, hearty,
intelligent fellows, and will make excellent soldiers; but they have now no regard for their
officers, and, as a rule, do as they please. They came straggling back yesterday from the top
of Cheat unofficered, and in the most unsoldierly manner. As one of these stray Indianians
was coming into camp, he saw a snake in the river and cocked his gun. He was near the quarters
of the Sixth Ohio, and many men were on the opposite side of the stream, among them a lieutenant,
who called to the Indianian and begged him for God's sake not to fire; but the latter, unmindful
of what was said, blazed away. The ball, striking the water, glanced and hit the lieutenant
in the breast, killing him almost instantly.

6. The Third and Sixth Ohio, with Loomis' battery, left camp at half-past three in the afternoon,
and took the Huntersville turnpike for Big Springs, where Lee's army has been encamped for
some months. At nine o'clock we reached Logan's Mill, where the column halted for the night.
It had rained heavily for some hours, and was still raining. The boys went into camp thoroughly
wet, and very hungry and tired; but they soon had a hundred fires kindled, and, gathering around
these, prepared and ate supper.

I never looked upon a wilder or more interesting scene. The valley is blazing with camp-fires;
the men flit around them like shadows.

A hundred voices join in, and the very mountains, which loom up in the fire-light like great
walls, whose tops are lost in the darkness, resound with a rude melody befitting so wild a
night and so wild a scene. But the songs are not all patriotic. Love and fun make contribution
also, and a voice, which may be that of the invincible Irishman, Corporal Casey, sings:

          "'T was a windy night, about two o'clock in the morning,
           An Irish lad, so tight, all the wind and weather scorning,
           At Judy Callaghan's door, sitting upon the paling,
           His love tale he did pour, and this is part of his wailing:
           Only say you'll be mistress Brallaghan;
           Don't say nay, charming Judy Callaghan."

Lieutenant Root is in command of Loomis' battery. Just before reaching Logan's one of his provision
wagons tumbled down a precipice, severely injuring three men and breaking the wagon in pieces.

7. Left Logan's mill before the sun was up. The rain continues, and the mud is deep. At eleven
o'clock we reached what is known as Marshall's store, near which, until recently, the enemy
had a pretty large camp. Halted at the place half an hour, and then moved four miles further
on, where we found the roads impassable for our artillery and transportation.

Learning that the enemy had abandoned Big Springs and fallen back to Huntersville, the soldiers
were permitted to break ranks, while Colonel Marrow and Major Keifer, with a company of cavalry,
rode forward to the Springs. Colonel Nick Anderson, Adjutant Mitchell and I followed. We found
on the road evidence of the recent presence of a very large force. Quite a number of wagons
had been left behind. Many tents had been ripped, cut to pieces, or burned, so as to render
them worthless. A large number of beef hides were strung along the road. One wagon, loaded
with muskets, had been destroyed. All of which showed, simply, that before the rebels abandoned
the place the roads had become so bad that they could not carry off their baggage.

The object of the expedition being now accomplished, we started back at three o'clock in the
afternoon, and encamped for the night at Marshall's store.

8. Resumed the march early, found the river waist high, and current swift; but the men all
got over safely, and we reached camp at one o'clock.

The Third has been assigned to a new brigade, to be commanded by Brigadier-General Dumont,
of Indiana.

The paymaster has come at last.

Willis, my new servant, is a colored gentleman of much experience and varied accomplishments.
He has been a barber on a Mississippi river steamboat, and a daguerreian artist. He knows much
of the South, and manipulates a fiddle with wonderful skill. He is enlivening the hours now
with his violin.

Oblivious to rain, mud, and the monotony of the camp, my thoughts are carried by the music
to other and pleasanter scenes; to the cottage home, to wife and children, to a time still
further away when we had no children, when we were making the preliminary arrangements for
starting in the world together, when her cheeks were ruddier than now, when wealth and fame
and happiness seemed lying just before me, ready to be gathered in, and farther away still,
to a gentle, blue-eyed mother--now long gone--teaching her child to lisp his first simple prayer.

9. The day has been clear. The mountains, decorated by the artistic fingers of Jack Frost,
loom up in the sunshine like magnificent, highly-colored, and beautiful pictures.

The night is grand. The moon, a crescent, now rests for a moment on the highest peak of the
Cheat, and by its light suggests, rather than reveals, the outline of hill, valley, cove and
mountain.

The boys are wide awake and merry. The fair weather has put new spirit in them all, and possibly
the presence of the paymaster has contributed somewhat to the good feeling which prevails.

Hark! This from the company quarters:

          "Her golden hair in ringlets fair;
           Her eyes like diamonds shining;
           Her slender waist, her carriage chaste,
           Left me, poor soul, a pining.
           But let the night be e'er so dark,
           Or e'er so wet and rainy,
           I will return safe back again
           To the girl I left behind me."

From another quarter, in the rich brogue of the Celt, we have:

          "Did you hear of the widow Malone,
                    Ohone!
           Who lived in the town of Athlone,
                    Alone?
           Oh! she melted the hearts
           Of the swains in those parts;
           So lovely the widow Malone,
                    Ohone!
           So lovely the widow Malone."

10. Mr. Strong, the chaplain, has a prayer meeting in the adjoining tent. His prayers and exhortations
fill me with an almost irresistible inclination to close my eyes and shut out the vanities,
cares, and vexations of the world. Parson Strong is dull, but he is very industrious, and on
secular days devotes his physical and mental powers to the work of tanning three sheepskins
and a calf's hide. On every fair day he has the skins strung on a pole before his tent to get
the sun. He combs the wool to get it clean, and takes especial delight in rubbing the hides
to make them soft and pliable. I told the parson the other day that I could not have the utmost
confidence in a shepherd who took so much pleasure in tanning hides.

While Parson Strong and a devoted few are singing the songs of Zion, the boys are having cotillion
parties in other parts of the camp. On the parade ground of one company Willis is officiating
as musician, and the gentlemen go through "honors to partners" and "circle all" with apparently
as much pleasure as if their partners had pink cheeks, white slippers, and dresses looped up
with rosettes.

There comes from the Chaplain's tent a sweet and solemn refrain:

          "Perhaps He will admit my plea,
             Perhaps will hear my prayer;
           But if I perish I will pray,
             And perish only there.
           I can but perish if I go.
             I am resolved to try.
           For if I stay away I know
             I must forever die."

While these old hymns are sounding in our ears, we are almost tempted to go, even if we do
perish. Surely nothing has such power to make us forget earth and its round of troubles as
these sweet old church songs, familiar from earliest childhood, and wrought into the most tender
memories, until we come to regard them as a sort of sacred stream, on which some day our souls
will float away happily to the better country.

12. The parson is in my tent doing his best to extract something solemn out of Willis' violin.
Now he stumbles on a strain of "Sweet Home," then a scratch of "Lang Syne;" but the latter
soon breaks its neck over "Old Hundred," and all three tunes finally mix up and merge into
"I would not live alway, I ask not to stay," which, for the purpose of steadying his hand,
the parson sings aloud. I look at him and affect surprise that a reverend gentleman should
take any pleasure in so vain and wicked an instrument, and express a hope that the business
of tanning skins has not utterly demoralized him.

Willis pretends to a taste in music far superior to that of the common "nigger." He plays a
very fine thing, and when I ask what it is, replies: "Norma, an opera piece." Since the parson's
exit he has been executing "Norma" with great spirit, and, so far as I am able to judge, with
wonderful skill. I doubt not his thoughts are a thousand miles hence, among brown-skinned wenches,
dressed in crimson robes, and decorated with ponderous ear-drops. In fact, "Norma" is good,
and goes far to carry one out of the wilderness.

13. It is after tattoo. Parson Strong's prayer-meeting has been dismissed an hour, and the
camp is as quiet as if deserted. The day has been a duplicate of yesterday, cold and windy.
To-night the moon is sailing through a wilderness of clouds, now breaking out and throwing
a mellow light over valley and mountain, then plunging into obscurity, and leaving all in thick
darkness.

Major Keifer, Adjutant Mitchell, and Private Jerroloaman have been stretching their legs before
my fire-place all the evening. The Adjutant being hopelessly in love, naturally enough gave
the conversation a sentimental turn, and our thoughts have been wandering among the rosy years
when our hearts throbbed under the gleam of one bright particular star (I mean one each), and
our souls alternated between hope and fear, happiness and despair. Three of us, however, have
some experience in wedded life, and the gallant Adjutant is reasonably confident that he will
obtain further knowledge on the subject if this cruel war ever comes to an end and his sweetheart
survives.

14. The paymaster has been busy. The boys are very bitter against the sutler, realizing, for
the first time, that "sutler's chips" cost money, and that they have wasted on jimcracks too
much of their hard earnings. Conway has taken a solemn Irish oath that the sutler shall never
get another cent of him. But these are like the half repentant, but resultless, mutterings
of the confirmed drunkard. The "new leaf" proposed to be turned over is never turned.

16. Am told that some of the boys lost in gambling every farthing of their money half an hour
after receiving it from the paymaster.

An Indiana soldier threw a bombshell into the fire to-day, and three men were seriously wounded
by the explosion.

       *       *       *       *       *

The writer was absent from camp from October 21st to latter part of November, serving on court-martial,
first at Huttonville, and afterward at Beverly.

In November the Third was transferred to Kentucky.

NOVEMBER, 1861.

30. The Third is encamped five miles south of Louisville, on the Seventh-street plank road.

As we marched through the city my attention was directed to a sign bearing the inscription,
in large black letters,

          "NEGROES BOUGHT AND SOLD."

We have known, to be sure, that negroes were bought and sold, like cattle and tobacco, but
it, nevertheless, awakened new, and not by any means agreeable, sensations to see the humiliating
fact announced on the broad side of a commercial house. These signs must come down.

The climate of Kentucky is variable, freezing nights and thawing in the day. The soil in this
locality is rich, and, where trodden, extremely muddy. We shall miss the clear water of the
mountain streams. A large number of troops are concentrating here.

DECEMBER, 1861.

1. Sunday has just slipped away. Parson Strong attempted to get an audience; but a corporal's
guard, for numbers, were all who desired to be ministered to in spiritual things.

The Colonel spends much of his time in Louisville. He complains bitterly because the company
officers do not remain in camp, and yet fails to set them a good example in this regard. We
have succeeded poorly in holding our men. Quite a number dodged off while the boat was lying
at the landing in Cincinnati, and still more managed to get through the guard lines and have
gone to Louisville. The invincible Corporal Casey has not yet put in an appearance.

The boys of the Sixth Ohio are exceedingly jubilant; the entire regiment has been allowed a
furlough for six days. This was done to satisfy the men, who had become mutinous because they
were not permitted to stop at Cincinnati on their way hither.

4. Rode to Louisville this afternoon; in the evening attended the theatre, and saw the notorious
Adah Isaacs Menken Heenan. The house was packed with soldiers, mostly of the Sixth Ohio. It
seemed probable at one time that there would be a general free fight; but the brawlers were
finally quieted and the play went on. One of the performers resembled an old West Virginia
acquaintance so greatly that the boys at once y'clepped him Stalnaker, and howled fearfully
whenever he made his appearance.

7. Moved three miles nearer Louisville and encamped in a grove. Have had much difficulty in
keeping the men in camp; and this evening, to prevent a general stampede, ordered the guards
to load their guns and shoot the first man who attempted to break over. Have succeeded also
in getting the officers to remain; notified them yesterday that charges would be preferred
against all who left without permission, and this afternoon I put my very good friend, Lieutenant
Dale, under arrest for disregarding the order.

12. In camp near Elizabethtown. The road over which we marched was excellent; but owing to
detention at Salt river, where the troops and trains had to be ferried over, we were a day
longer coming here than we expected to be. The weather has been delightful, warm as spring
time. The nights are beautiful.

The regiment was greatly demoralized by our stay in the vicinity of Louisville, and on the
march hither the boys were very disorderly and loth to obey; but, by dint of much scolding,
we succeeded in getting them all through.

13. Have been attached to the Seventeenth Brigade, and assigned to the Third Division; the
latter commanded by General O. M. Mitchell. The General remarked to me this morning, that the
best drilled and conditioned regiments would lead in the march toward Nashville.

15. Jake Smith, the driver of the head-quarters wagon, on his arrival in Elizabethtown went
to the hotel, and in an imperious way ordered dinner, assuring the landlord, with much emphasis,
that he was "no damned common officer, and wanted a good dinner."

18. In camp at Bacon creek, eight miles north of Green river. Have been two days on the way
from Elizabethtown; the road was bad. There were nine regiments in the column, which extended
as far almost as the eye could reach.

At Louisville I was compelled to bear heavily on officers and men. On the march hither I have
dealt very thoroughly with some of the most disorderly, and in consequence have become unpopular
with the regiment.

20. General Mitchell called this afternoon and requested me to form the regiment in a square.
I did so, and he addressed it for twenty minutes on guard duty, throwing in here and there
patriotic expressions, which encouraged and delighted the boys very much. When he departed
they gave him three rousing cheers.

21. A reconnoissance was made beyond Green river yesterday, and no enemy found.

We are short of supplies; entirely out of sugar, coffee, and candles, and the boys to-night
indicated some faint symptoms of insubordination, but I assured them we had made every effort
possible to obtain these articles, and so quieted them.

Major Keifer was officer in charge of the camp yesterday, and when making the rounds last night
a sentinel challenged, "Halt! who comes there?" The sergeant responded, "Grand rounds," whereupon
the weary and disappointed Irishman retorted in angry tones: "Divil take the grand rounds,
I thought it the relafe comin'."

22. The pleasant days have ended. The clouds hang heavy and black, and the rain descends in
torrents.

After eleven o'clock last night I accompanied General Mitchell to ten regiments, and with him
made the grand rounds in most of them. As we rode from camp to camp the General made the time
most agreeable and profitable to me, by delivering a very able lecture on military affairs;
laying down what he denominated a simple and sure foundation for the beginner to build upon.

The wind is high and our stove smokes prodigiously. I have been out in the rain endeavoring
to turn the pipe, but have not mended the matter at all. The Major insists that it is better
to freeze than to be smoked to death, so we shall extinguish the fire and freeze.

Adjutant Mitchell has been commissioned captain and assigned to Company C.

25. Gave passes to all the boys who desired to leave camp. The Major, Adjutant and I had a
right royal Christmas dinner and a pleasant time. A fine fat chicken, fried mush, coffee, peaches
and milk, were on the table. The Major is engaged now in heating the second tea-pot of water
for punch purposes. His countenance has become quite rosy; this is doubtless the effect of
the fire. He has been unusually powerful in argument; but whether his intellect has been stimulated
by the fire, the tea, or the punch, we are at this time wholly unable to decide; he certainly
handles the tea-pot with consummate skill, and attacks the punch with exceeding vigor.

27. No orders to advance. Armies travel slowly indeed. Within fifteen miles of the enemy and
idly rotting in the mud.

Acting Brigadier-General Marrow when informed that Dumont would assume command of the brigade,
became suddenly and violently ill, asked for and obtained a thirty-day leave.

I would give much to be home with the children during this holiday time; but unfortunately
my health is too good, and will continue so in spite of me. The Major, poor man, is troubled
in the same way.

28. Lieutenant St. John goes to Louisville with a man who was arrested as a spy; and strange
to say the arrest was made at the instance of the prisoner's uncle, who is a captain in the
Union army.

Captain Mitchell assumes command of company C to-morrow. The Colonel is incensed at the Major
and me, because of the Adjutant's promotion. He intended to make a place in the company for
a non-commissioned officer, who begged money from the boys to buy him a sword. We astonished
him, however, by showing three commissions--one for the Adjutant, and one each for a first
and second lieutenant, all of the company's own choosing.

30. Called on General Dumont this morning; he is a small man, with a thin piping voice, but
an educated and affable gentleman. Did not make his acquaintance in West Virginia, he being
unwell while there and confined to his quarters.

This is a peculiar country; there are innumerable caverns, and every few rods places are found
where the crust of the earth appears to have broken and sunk down hundreds of feet. One mile
from camp there is a large and interesting cave, which has been explored probably by every
soldier of the regiment.

31. General Buell is here, and a grand review took place to-day.

Since we left Elkwater there has been a steadily increasing element of insubordination manifested
in many ways, but notably in an unwillingness to drill, in stealing from camp and remaining
away for days. This, if tolerated much longer, will demoralize even the best of men and render
the regiment worthless.

JANUARY, 1862.

1. Albert, the cook, was swindled in the purchase of a fowl for our New Year's dinner; he supposed
he was getting a young and tender turkey, but we find it to be an ancient Shanghai rooster,
with flesh as tough as whitleather. This discovery has cast a shade of melancholy over the Major.

The boys, out of pure devilment, set fire to the leaves, and to-night the forest was illuminated.
The flames advanced so rapidly that, at one time, we feared they might get beyond control,
but the fire was finally whipped out, not, however, without making as much noise in the operation
as would be likely to occur at the burning of an entire city.

5. General Mitchell has issued an immense number of orders, and of course holds the commandants
of regiments responsible for their execution. I have, as in duty bound, done my best to enforce
them, and the men think me unnecessarily severe.

To-day a soldier about half drunk was arrested for leaving camp without permission and brought
to my quarters; he had two canteens of whisky on his person. I remonstrated with him mildly,
but he grew saucy, insubordinate, and finally insolent and insulting; he said he did not care
a damn for what I thought or did, and was ready to go to the guard-house; in fact wanted to
go there. Finally, becoming exasperated, I took the canteens from him, poured out the whisky,
and directed Captain Patterson to strap him to a tree until he cooled off somewhat. The Captain
failing in his efforts to fasten him securely, I took my saddle girth, backed him up to the
tree, buckled him to it, and returned to my quarters. This proved to be the last straw which
broke the unfortunate camel's back. It was a high-handed outrage upon the person of a volunteer
soldier; the last and worst of the many arbitrary and severe acts of which I had been guilty.
The regiment seemed to arise en masse, and led on by a few reckless men who had long disliked
me, advanced with threats and fearful oaths toward my tent. The bitter hatred which the men
entertained for me had now culminated. It being Sunday the whole regiment was off duty, and
while some, and perhaps many, of the boys had no desire to resort to violent measures, yet
all evidently sympathized with the prisoner, and regarded my action as arbitrary and cruel.
The position of the soldier was a humiliating one, but it gave him no bodily pain. Possibly
I had no authority for punishing him in this way; and had I taken time for reflection it is
more than probable I should have found some other and less objectionable mode; confinement
in the guard-house, however, would have been no punishment for such a man; on the contrary
it would have afforded him that relief from disagreeable duty which he desired. At any rate
the act, whether right or wrong, had been done, and I must either stand by it now or abandon
all hope of controlling the regiment hereafter. I watched the mob, unobserved by it, from an
opening in my tent door. Saw it gather, consult, advance, and could hear the boisterous and
threatening language very plainly. Buckling my pistol belt under my coat where it could not
be seen, I stepped out just as the leaders advanced to the tree for the purpose of releasing
the man. I asked them very quietly what they proposed to do. Then I explained to them how the
soldier had violated orders, which I was bound by my oath to enforce; how, when I undertook
to remonstrate kindly against such unsoldierly conduct, he had insulted and defied me. Then
I continued as calmly as I ever spoke, "I understand you have come here to untie him; let the
man who desires to undertake the work begin--if there be a dozen men here who have it in their
minds to do this thing--let them step forward--I dare them to do it." They saw before them
a quiet, plain man who was ready to die if need be; they could not doubt his honesty of purpose.
He gave them time to act and answer, they stood irresolute and silent; with a wave of the hand
he bade them go to their quarters, and they went.

General Mitchell hearing of my trouble sent for me. I explained to him the difficulties under
which I was laboring; told him what I had done and why I had done it. He said he understood
my position fully, that I must go ahead, do my duty and he would stand by me, and, if necessary,
sustain me with his whole division. I replied that I needed no assistance; that the officers,
with but few exceptions, were my friends, and that I believed there were enough good, sensible
soldiers in the regiment to see me through. He talked very kindly to me; but I feel greatly
discouraged. The Colonel has practically abandoned the regiment in this period of bad weather,
when rigorous discipline is to be enforced, and the boys seem to feel that I am taking advantage
of his absence to display my authority, and require from them the performance of hard and unnecessary
tasks. Many non-commissioned officers have been reduced to the ranks by court-martial for being
absent without leave, and many privates have been punished in various ways for the same reason.
It was my duty to approve or disapprove the finding of the court. Disapproval in the majority
of cases would have been subversive of all discipline. Approval has brought down upon me not
only the hatred and curses of the soldiers tried and punished, but in some instances the ill-will
also of their fathers, who for years were my neighbors and friends.

Very many of these soldiers think they should be allowed to work when they please, play when
they please, and, in short, do as they please. Until this idea is expelled from their minds
the regiment will be but little if any better than a mob.

7. We hear of the Colonel occasionally. He is still at Louisville, running his train on the
broad gauge. His regiment, he says, has been maneuvering in the face of the enemy beyond Green
river, threatened with an attack day and night. Constant vigilance and continued exposure in
this most inclement season of the year, so undermined his health that he was compelled to retire
a little while to recuperate. He affirms that he has the best regiment of soldiers in the service;
but, unfortunately, has not a field officer worth a damn.

Robt. E. Lee was the great man of the rebel army in West Virginia. The boys all talked about
Lee, and told how they would pink him if opportunity offered. But Simon Bolivar Buckner is
the man here on whom they all threaten to fall violently. There are certainly a hundred soldiers
in the Third, each one of whom swears every day that he would whip Simon Bolivar Buckner quicker
than a wink if he dared present himself. Simon is in danger.

Had the third sergeants in my school to-night. Am getting to be a pretty good teacher.

10. General Mitchell gave the officers a very interesting lecture this evening. He is indefatigable.
The whole division has become a school.

Had five lieutenants before me. Lesson: grand guards and other outposts.

11. The General summoned the officers of his division about him and went through the form of
sending out advanced guard, posting picket, grand guards, outposts, and sentinels. During these
exercises we rode fifteen or twenty miles, and listened to at least twenty speeches. My horse
was very gay, and I had the pleasure of running many races. I learned something, and am learning
a little each day. Had the lieutenants in my school again to-night. Lesson: detachments, reconnoissances,
partisans, and flankers.

12. The officers dress better, as a rule, than in West Virginia. The only man who has not,
in this regard, changed for the better, is the Major. He continues the careless fellow he was.
Occasionally he makes an effort to have his boots polished; but finds the day altogether too
short for the work, and abandons the job in despair.

14. Every day we have the roar of artillery, the rattle of musketry, the prancing of impatient
steeds, the marching and countermarching of battalions, the roll of the drum, the clash and
clatter of sabers, and the thunder of a thousand mounted men, as they hurry hither and yon.
But nobody is hurt; it is all practice and drill.

16. People who live in houses would hardly believe one can sleep comfortably with his nose
separated from the coldest winter wind by simply a thin cotton canvas; but such is the fact.

19. General Dumont called. He is to-day commandant of the camp. The General is an eccentric
genius, and has an inexhaustible fund of good stories. He uses the words "damned" and "be-damned"
rather too often; but this adds, rather than detracts, from his popularity. He dispenses good
whisky at his quarters very freely, and this has a tendency also to elevate him in the estimation
of his subordinates.

General Mitchell never drinks and never swears. Occasionally he uses the words "confound it"
in rather savage style; but further than this I have never heard him go. Mitchell is military;
Dumont militia. The latter winks at the shortcomings of the soldier; the former does not.

25. We are not studying so much as we were. The General's grasp has relaxed, and he does not
hold us with a tight reign and stiff bit any longer.

There is a great deal of sickness among the troops; many cases of colds, rheumatism, and fever,
resulting from exposure. Passing through the company quarters of our regiment at midnight,
I was alarmed by the constant and heavy coughing of the men. I fear the winter will send many
more to the grave than the bullets of the enemy, for a year to come.

26. A body of cavalry got in our rear last night and attempted to destroy the Nolan creek bridge;
but it was driven off by the guard, after a sharp engagement, in which report says nine of
the enemy were killed and six of our men.

The enemy is doing but little in our front. A night or two ago he ventured to within a few
miles of our forces on Green river, burnt a station-house, and retired.

28. The Colonel returned at noon. I was among the first to visit him. He greeted me very cordially,
and called God to witness that he had never spoken a disparaging word of me. Busy bodies and
liars, he said, had created all the trouble between us. He had heard that charges were to be
preferred against him; he knew they could not be sustained, and believed it an attempt of his
enemies to injure him and prevent his promotion. He affirmed that he had enlisted from the
purest of motives, and entered into a general defense of his acts as an officer and gentleman.
I listened respectfully to his statement, and then said: "Colonel, if your conduct has been
such as you describe, you need not fear an investigation. I hold in my hand the charges and
specifications of which you have heard. They are signed by my hand. I make them believing them
to be true. If false, the court will so find, and I shall be the one to suffer. If true, you
are unfit to command this regiment or any other, and it should be known. I present the charges
to you, the commanding officer of the Third Regiment, and with them a written request that
they be forwarded to the General commanding the division." He took the package, tore open the
envelope, and seated himself while he read.

In less than an hour Captains Lawson and Wing called on me to report that the Colonel would
resign if I would withdraw the charges. I consented to do so.

31. Had dress parade this evening, at which the Colonel officiated, it being his first appearance
since his return.

Ascertaining that he had not sent in his resignation, I wrote him a note calling attention
to the promise made on the 29th instant, and suggesting that it would be well to terminate
an unpleasant matter without unnecessary delay.

We had a case of disappointed love in the regiment last night. A sergeant of Captain Mitchell's
company was engaged to a girl of Athens county. They were to be married upon his return from
the war, and until within a month have been corresponding regularly. Suddenly and without explanation
she ceased to write, why he could not imagine. He never, however, doubted that she would be
faithful to him. His anxiety to hear from home increased, until finally he learned from her
brother, a soldier of the Eighteenth Ohio, that she was married. Strong, healthy, good-looking
fellow that he was, this intelligence prostrated him completely, and made him crazy as a loon.
He imagined that he was in hell, thought Dr. Seyes the devil, and so violent did he become
that they had to bind him.

This morning he is more calm, but still deranged. He thought the straws in his bunk were thorns,
and would pluck at them with his fingers and exclaim: "My God, ain't they sharp?" Captain Mitchell
called, and the boys said: "Sergeant, don't you know him?" "Yes," he replied, "he is one of
the devils." The Captain said: "Sergeant, don't you know where you are?" "Of course I do; I'm
in hell." When they were binding him he said: "That's right; heap on the coals; put me in the
hottest place." While Dr. Seyes was preparing something to quiet him--laudanum, perhaps--he
said: "Bring on your poison; I'll take it."

The boys, while living roughly, exposed to hardships and dangers, think more of their sweethearts
than ever before, and are constantly recurring, in their talk, to the comfortable homes and
pleasant scenes from which they are for the present separated.

FEBRUARY, 1862.

1. The Colonel sent in his resignation this morning. It will go to Department head-quarters
to-morrow.

Saw the new moon over my right shoulder this evening, which I accept as an omen of good luck.
Let it come. It will suit me just as well now as at any time. If deceived, I shall never more
have faith in the moon; and as for the man in the moon, I shall call him a cheat to his face.

2. The devil is to pay in the regiment. The Colonel is doing his utmost to create a disturbance.
His friends are busy among the privates. At noon an effort was made to get up a demonstration
on the color line in his behalf. Now a petition is being circulated among the privates requesting
Major Keifer and me to resign.

The night is as dark as pitch. A few minutes ago a shout went up for the Colonel, and was swelled
from point to point along the line of company tents, until now possibly five hundred voices
have joined in the yell. The Colonel's friends tell the boys that if he were to remain he would
obtain leave for the regiment to go back to Camp Dennison to recruit; that he was about to
obtain rifles and Zouave uniforms for them, and that there is a conspiracy among the officers
to crush him.

3. Petitions from four companies, embracing two hundred and twenty-five names, have been presented,
requesting the Major and Lieutenant-Colonel to resign.

4. We closed up the day with a dress parade, the Colonel in command. The camp is more boisterous
than usual. No more petitions have been presented.

The Major received a package from home to-night containing, among other articles, a pair of
slippers, which, greatly to my advantage, were too small for him. They were turned over to
me, and it happens that no little thing could have been more acceptable.

The bright moonlight of to-night enlivens our spirits somewhat, and fills us with new courage.
The days have been dark and gloomy, and the nights still more so, for many days and nights past.

From the band of the Tenth Ohio, half a mile away, come strains mellow and sweet. The air is
full of moonlight and music. The boys are in a happier mood, and a round, full voice comes
to us from the tents with the words of an old Scotch song:

          "March, march, Ettrick and Teviotdale!
             Why, my lads, dinna ye march forward in order?
           March, march, Eskale and Liddlesdale!

5. The Major and Mr. Furay are engaged in a tremendous dispute. Furay is positive he can not
be mistaken, and the Major laughs him to scorn. When these gentlemen lock horns in dead earnest
the clatter of words becomes terrible, and the combat ends only when both fall on their cots
exhausted.

6. The Colonel's resignation has been accepted. He delivered his valedictory to the regiment
this evening. Subsequently he passed through the company quarters, shaking hands with the boys
and bidding them farewell. Still later he made a speech, in which he called God to witness
that he was a loyal man, and promised to pray for us all. The regiment is disorderly, if not
mutinous even. The best thing he can do for it and himself is to get out.

8. The Colonel has bidden us a final adieu. His most devoted adherents escorted him to the
depot, and returned miserably drunk.

One of the color guards, an honest, sensible, good-looking boy, has written me a letter of
encouragement. I trust that soon all will feel as kindly toward me as he.

10. We left Bacon creek at noon. There were ten thousand men in advance of us, with immense
baggage trains. The roads bad, and our march slow, tedious, and disagreeable. Many of the officers
imbibed freely, and the senior surgeon, an educated gentleman, and very popular with the boys,
became gloriously elevated. He kept his eye pealed for secesh, and before reaching Munfordsville
found a citizen twice as big as himself in possession of a double-barreled shot-gun. Taking
it for granted that he was an enemy, the Doctor drew a revolver and bade him surrender unconditionally.
The boys said the Doctor was as tight as a little bull. What phase of inebriety this remark
indicated I am unable to say; but certain it is that he did not for a moment lose sight of
his gigantic prisoner, nor give him the slightest opportunity to escape. He was quite triumphant
in his bearing; directed the movements of the captive in a loud and imperious tone, and favored
him with much patriotic advice.

A wagon with six unbroken mules attached is an uncertain conveyance. If the mules are desired
to stop suddenly, they are certain not to do so, and if commanded to start suddenly, they are
just as sure not to obey. If, after an immense amount of whipping and many fervent asseverations
on the part of the driver that all mules should be in Tophet, they conclude to start at all,
they go as if determined to reach the place indicated without unnecessary delay. If a mud-hole,
ditch, tree, or any other obstacle lies in the way, and the driver cries whoa, the mules redouble
their speed, and rush forward as if they did not in the slightest degree consider themselves
responsible either for the driver's neck or the traps with which the wagon is laden.

It was about eight o'clock in the evening when we crossed the bridge over Green river. The
moon had around it a halo, in which appeared very distinctly all the colors of the National
flag--red, white, and blue--and the boys said it was a good omen; that they were Union people
up there, and had hung out the Stars and Stripes.

12. To-morrow we start for Bowling Green, our division in the lead. Before night we shall overtake
the rebels, and before the next evening will doubtless fight a battle.

13. Long before sunrise the whole division was astir, and at seven o'clock moved forward, our
brigade in the center. Far as the eye could reach, both in front and rear, the road was crowded
with men. A score of bands filled the air with martial strains, while the morning sun brightened
the muskets, and made the flags look more cheerful and brilliant. The day was warm and pleasant.
The country before us was, in a military sense, unexplored, and every ear was open to catch
the sound of the first gun. The conviction that a battle was imminent kept the men steady and
prevented straggling. We passed many fine houses, and extensive, well improved farms. But few
white people were seen. The negroes appeared to have entire possession.

Six miles from Green river a young and very pretty girl stood in the doorway of a handsome
farm-house and waved the flag of the Union. Cheer after cheer arose along the line; officers
saluted, soldiers waved their hats, and the bands played "Yankee Doodle" and "Dixie." That
loyal girl captured a thousand hearts, and I trust some gallant soldier who shall win honorable
scars in battle may return in good time to crown her his Queen of Love and Beauty.

From this on for fifteen miles we found neither springs nor streams. The country is cavernous,
and the only water is that of the ponds. In all of these we discovered dead and decaying horses,
mules, and dogs. The rebels in this way had sought to deprive us of water; but while their
action in this regard occasioned a vast deal of profanity among the boys, it did not in the
least retard the column. We were, however, delayed somewhat by the felled trees with which
they had obstructed miles of the road. At sunset we halted and pitched our tents in a large
field, near what is known as Bell's Tavern, on the Louisville and Nashville Railroad. We had
marched eighteen miles.

The water used in the preparation of the evening meal was that of the ponds. The thought of
the rotting dogs, horses, and mules, could not be banished, and when the Major sipped his coffee
in a doubtful way and remarked that it tasted soupy, my stomach quivered on the turning point,
and, hungry as I was, the supper gave me no further enjoyment.

14. Resumed the march at daylight. Snow fell last night. The day was exceedingly cold, and
the wind pierced through us like needles of ice. I think I never experienced so sudden and
extreme a change in the weather. It was too cold to ride, and I dismounted and walked twelve
miles. We were certain of a fight, and so pushed on with rapid pace. A regiment of cavalry
and Loomis' battery were in advance. When within ten miles of Bowling Green the guns opened
in our front. Leaving the regiment in charge of the Major, I rode ahead rapidly as I could,
and reached the river bank opposite Bowling Green in time to see a detachment of rebel cavalry
fire the buildings which contained their army stores. The town was ablaze in twenty different
places. They had destroyed the bridge over Barren river in the morning, and now, having finished
the work of destruction, went galloping over the hills. When the regiment arrived, it was quartered
in a camp but recently evacuated by the enemy. The night was bitter cold; but the boys soon
had a hundred fires blazing, and made themselves very comfortable.

15. This morning we were called out at daylight to cross the river and take possession of the
town; a sorrier, hungrier lot of fellows never rolled out of warm blankets into the icy wind.
It was impossible for many of them to get their wet and frozen shoes on, but we hurried down
to the river, and were there halted until it was ascertained that our presence on the opposite
side was not required, when we went back to our old quarters.

16. To-day we crossed the Big Barren, and are now in Bowling Green. Turchin's brigade preceded
us, and has gutted many houses. The rebels burned a million dollars worth of stores, but left
enough pork, salt beef, and other necessaries to supply our division for a month; in fact the
cigar I am smoking, the paper on which I write, the ink and pen, were all captured.

General Beauregard left the day before our arrival. It is said he was for days reported to
be lying in General Hardee's quarters, dangerously ill, and that under cover of this report
he left town dressed in citizen's clothes and visited our camps on Green River.

18. The weather is turning warm again, the men are quartered in houses. I room at the hotel.
This sort of life, however pleasant it may be, has a demoralizing effect upon the soldier.

19. Spent the forenoon at the river assisting somewhat in getting our transportation over.
It is a rainy day, and I got wet to the skin and thoroughly chilled. After dinner I went to
bed while William, my servant, put a few necessary stitches in my apparel, and dried my underclothing
and boots. I am badly off for clothing; my coat is out at the elbows, and my pantaloons are
in a revolutionary condition, the seat having seceded.

The Cincinnati Gazette of the 14th instant reports that I have been promoted. Thanks.

20. We learn from a reliable source that Nashville has been evacuated. The enemy is said to
be concentrating at Murfreesboro, twenty or thirty miles beyond.

The river has risen fifteen feet, and many of our teams are still on the other side. The water
swelled so rapidly that two teams of six mules each, parked on the river bank last night so
as to be in readiness to cross on the ferry this morning, were swept away.

Captain Mitchell returned this evening from a trip North. We are glad to have him back again.

21. Hear that Fort Donelson has been taken after a terrible fight, and ten thousand ears are
eager to hear more about the engagement. No teams crossed the river to-day; we are flood bound.

There was an immense number of deaths in the rebel army while it encamped here. It is said
three thousand Southern soldiers are buried in the vicinity of the town. They could not stand
the rigorous Northern climate. A Mississippi regiment reported but thirteen men for duty.

22. Moved at seven in the morning toward Nashville without wagons, tents or camp equipage.
Marched twenty miles in the rain and were drenched completely. The boys found some sort of
shelter during the night in tobacco houses, barns, and straw piles.

23. The day pleasant and sunshiny. The feet of the men badly blistered, and the regiment limps
along in wretched style; made fifteen miles.

24. Routed out at daylight and ordered to make Nashville, a distance of thirty-two miles. Many
of the boys have no shoes, and the feet of many are still very sore. The journey seems long,
but we are at the head of the column, and that stimulates us somewhat. Have sent my horse to
the rear to help along the very lame, and am making the march on foot.

The martial band of the regiment is doing its utmost to keep the boys in good spirits; the
base drum sounds like distant thunder, and the wind of Hughes, the fifer, is inexhaustible;
he can blow five miles at a stretch. The members of the band are in good pluck, and when not
playing, either sing, tell stories, or indulge in reminiscences of a personal character. Russia
has been badgering William Heney, a drummer. He says that while at Elkwater Heney sparked one
of Esquire Stalnaker's daughters, and that the lady's little sister going into the room quite
suddenly one evening called back to the father, "Dad, dad, William Heney has got his arm around
Susan Jane!" Heney affirms that the story is untrue. Lochey favors us with a song, which is
known as the warble.

          "Thou, thou reignest in this bosom,
             There, there hast thou thy throne;

           Thou, thou knowest that I love thee;
             Am I not fondly thine own?

               Ya--ya--ya--ya.
           Am I not fondly thine own?

                        CHORUS.

                 Das unda claus ish mein,
                 Das unda claus ish mein,
                 Cants do nic mock un do.

           On the banks of the Ohio river,
             In a cot lives my Rosa so fair;
           She is called Jim Johnson's darky,
             And has nice curly black hair.
               Tre alo, tre alo, tre ola, ti.

           O come with me to the dear little spot,
             And I'll show you the place I was born,
           In a little log hut by a clear running brook,
             Where blossom the wild plum and thorn.
               Tre ola, tre ola, treo la ti.

           Mein fadter, mein modter, mein sister, mein frau,
             Undt swi glass of beer for meinself,
           Undt dey call mein wife one blacksmit shop;
             Such dings I never did see in my life.
               Tre ola, tre ola, tre ola ti."

25. General Nelson's command came up the Cumberland by boat and entered Nashville ahead of
us. The city, however, had surrendered to our division before Nelson arrived. We failed simply
in being the first troops to occupy it, and this resulted from detention at the river-crossing.

27. Crossed the Cumberland and moved through Nashville; the regiment behaved handsomely, and
was followed by a great crowd of colored people, who appeared to be delighted with the music.
General Mitchell complimented us on our good behavior and appearance.

28. Captain Wilson, Fourth Ohio Cavalry, was shot dead while on picket. One of his sergeants
had eight balls put through him, but still lives.

MARCH, 1862.

1. Our brigade, in command of General Dumont, started for Lavergne, a village eleven miles
out on the Murfreesboro road, to look after a regiment of cavalry said to be in occupation
of the place. Arrived there a little before sunset, but found the enemy had disappeared.

The troops obtained whisky in the village, and many of the soldiers became noisy and disorderly.

A little after nightfall the compliments of a Mrs. Harris were presented to me, with request
that I would be kind enough to call. The handsome little white cottage where she lived was
near our bivouac. It was the best house in the village; and, as I ascertained afterward, very
tastefully if not elegantly furnished. She was a woman of perhaps forty. Her husband and daughter
were absent; the former, I think, in the Confederate service. She had only a servant with her,
and was considerably frightened and greatly incensed at the conduct of some soldiers, of she
knew not what regiment, who had persisted in coming into her house and treating her rudely.
In short, she desired protection. She had a lively tongue in her head, and her request for
a guard was, I thought, not preferred in the gentlest and most amiable way. Her comments on
our Northern soldiers were certainly not complimentary to them. She said she had supposed hitherto
that soldiers were gentlemen. I confessed that they ought to be at least. She said, rather
emphatically, that Southern soldiers were gentlemen. I replied that I did not doubt at all
the correctness of her statement; but, unfortunately, the branch of the Northern army to which
I had the honor to belong had not been able to get near enough to them to obtain any personal
knowledge on the subject.

The upshot of the five minutes' interview was a promise to send a soldier to protect Mrs. Harris'
property and person during the night.

Returning to the regiment I sent for Sergeant Woolbaugh. He is one of the handsomest men in
the regiment; a printer by trade, an excellent conversationalist, a man of extensive reading,
and of thorough information respecting current affairs. I said: "Sergeant, I desire you to
brighten up your musket, and clothes if need be, go over to the little white cottage on the
right and stand guard." "All right, sir."

As he was leaving I called to him: "If the lady of the house shows any inclination to talk
with you, encourage and gratify her to the top of her bent. I want her to know what sort of
men our Northern soldiers are."

The Sergeant in due time introduced himself to Mrs. Harris, and was invited into the sitting
room. They soon engaged in conversation, and finally fell into a discussion of the issue between
the North and South which lasted until after midnight. The lady, although treated with all
courtesy, certainly obtained no advantage in the controversy, and must have arisen from it
with her ideas respecting Northern soldiers very materially changed.

2. Started on the return to Nashville at three o'clock in the morning. The boys being again
disappointed in not finding the enemy, and considerably under the influence of liquor, conducted
themselves in a most disorderly and unsoldierly way.

Have not had a change of clothing since we crossed the Great Barren river.

6. Regiment on picket.

When returning from the front I met a soldier of the Thirty-seventh Indiana, trudging along
with his gun on his shoulder. I asked him where he was going; he replied that his father lived
four miles beyond, and he had just heard that his brother was home from the Southern army on
sick leave, and he was going out to take him prisoner.

8. This afternoon the camp was greatly excited over a daring feat of a body of cavalry under
John Morgan. It succeeded in getting almost inside the camps, and was five miles inside of
our outposts. It came into the main road between where Kennett's cavalry regiment is encamped
and Nashville; captured a wagon train, took the drivers, Captain Braden, of Indiana, who was
in charge of the train, and eighty-three horses, and started on a by-road back for Murfreesboro.
General Mitchell immediately dispatched Kennett in pursuit. About fifteen miles out the rebels
were overtaken and our men and horses recaptured. Two rebels were killed and two taken; Kennett
is still in hot pursuit. Captain Braden says, as the rebels were riding away they were exceedingly
jubilant over the success of their adventure, and promised to introduce him to General Hardee
in the evening. Without asking the Captain's permission they gave him a very poor horse in
exchange for a very good one, put him at the head of the column and guarded him vigilantly;
but when Kennett appeared and the running fight occurred he dodged off at full speed, lay down
on his horse, and although fired at many times escaped unhurt.

Morgan's men know the country so well that all the by-roads and cow-paths are familiar to them;
the citizens keep them informed also as to the location of our camps and picket posts, and
if need be are ready to serve them either as guides or spies, hence the success which attended
the earlier part of their enterprise does not indicate so great a want of vigilance on the
part of our troops, as might at first thought be supposed.

9. The enemy made a descent on one of our outposts, killed one man and wounded another.

16. Went to Nashville this morning to buy a few necessaries. While awaiting dinner at the St.
Cloud I took a seat outside the door. Quite a number of Union officers were seated or standing
in front of the hotel, when two well, extremely well, dressed women, followed by a negro lady,
approached, and while passing us held their noses. What disagreeable thing the atmosphere in
our immediate vicinity contained that made it necessary for these lovely women to so pinch
their nasal protuberances, I could not discover; certainly the officers looked cleanly, many
of them were young men of the "double-bullioned" kind, who had spared no expense in decorating
their persons with shoulder straps, golden bugles, and other shining trappings which appertain
somehow to glorious war.

After dinner I dropped into a drug store to buy a cake of soap. The druggist gave me, in the
way of change, several miserably executed shinplasters. I asked:

"Do you call this money?"

"I do."

"I wonder that every printing office in the South does not commence the manufacture of such money."

"O, no," he replied in a sneering way; "in the North they might do that, but in the South no
one is disposed to make counterfeit money."

"Yes," I retorted, "the Southern people are very honest no doubt, but I apprehend there is
a better reason for not counterfeiting the money than you have assigned. It is probably not
worth counterfeiting."

Private Hawes of the Third is remarkably fond of pies, and a notorious straggler withal. He
has just returned to camp after being away for some days, and accounts for his absence by saying
that he was in the country looking for pies, when Morgan's men appeared suddenly, shot his
horse from under him, mounted him behind a soldier and carried him away. The private is now
in the guard-house entertaining a select company with a narrative of his adventures.

We have much trouble with escaped negroes. In some way we have obtained the reputation of being
abolitionists, and the colored folks get into our regimental lines, and in some mysterious
way are so disposed of that their masters never hear of them again. It is possible the two
saw-bones, who officiate at the hospital, dissect, or desiccate, or boil them in the interest
of science, or in the manufacture of the villainous compounds with which they dose us when
ill. At any rate, we know that many of these sable creatures, who joined us at Bowling Green
and on the road to Nashville, can not now be found. Their masters, following the regiment,
made complaint to General Buell, and, as we learn, spoke disparagingly of the Third. An order
issued requiring us to surrender the negroes to the claimants, and to keep colored folks out
of our camp hereafter. I obeyed the order promptly; commanded all the colored men in camp to
assemble at a certain hour and be turned over to their masters; but the misguided souls, if
indeed there were any, failed to put in an appearance, and could not be found. The scamps,
I fear, took advantage of my notice and hid away, much to the regret of all who desire to preserve
the Union as it was, and greatly to the chagrin of the gentlemen who expected to take them
handcuffed back to Kentucky. One of these fugitives, a handsome mulatto boy, borrowed five
dollars of me, and the same amount of Doctor Seyes, not half an hour before the time when he
was to be delivered up, but I fear now the money will never be repaid.

18. Started for Murfreesboro. The day is beautiful and the regiment marches well. Encamped
for the night near Lavergne. I called on my friend Mrs. Harris. She received me cordially and
introduced me to her daughter, a handsome young lady of seventeen or eighteen. They were both
extremely Southern in their views, but chatted pleasantly over the situation, and Mrs. Harris
spoke of Sergeant Woolbaugh, the guard furnished her on our first visit, in very complimentary
terms; in fact, she was surprised to find such men in the ranks of the Federal army. I assured
her that there were scores like him in every regiment, and that our army was made up of the
flower of the Northern people.

19. The rebels having burned the bridges on the direct road, we were compelled to diverge to
the left and take a longer route; toward evening we went into camp on the plantation of a widow
lady, and here for the first time in my life I saw a field of cotton; the old stalks still
standing with many bulbs which had escaped the pickers.

20. Turned out at four o'clock in the morning, got breakfast, struck our tents, and were ready
to march at six; but the brigade being now ordered to take the rear, we stood uncovered in
a drenching rain three hours for the division and transportation to pass.

           There everlasting spring abides,
             And never withering flowers;
           Death, like a narrow sea, divides
             This heavenly land from ours."

Soon after getting under way the sky cleared, and the sun made its appearance; the band struck
up, and at every plantation negroes came flocking to the roadside to see us. They are the only
friends we find. They have heard of the abolition army, the music, the banners, the glittering
arms; possibly the hope that their masters will be humbled and their own condition improved,
gladdens their hearts and leads them to welcome us with extravagant manifestations of joy.
They keep time to the music with feet and hands, and hurrah "fur de ole flag and de Union,"
sometimes following us for miles. Parson Strong attempts to do a little missionary work. A
dozen or more negroes stand in a group by the roadside. Said the Parson to an old man: "My
friend, are you religious?"

"No, massa, I is not; seben of my folks is, an dey is all prayen fur your side."

Hailing a little knot, I said: "Boys where do you live?"

"Lib wid Massa ----, sah."

"All Union people, I suppose?"

"Dey say dey is, but dey isn't."

One old woman--evidently a great-grandmother in Israel--climbed on the fence, clapped her hands,
shouted for joy, and "bressed de Lord dat dar was de ole flag agin."

To a colored boy who stole into our lines last night, with his little bundle under his arm,
the Major said: "Doesn't it make you feel bad to run away from your masters?"

"Oh, no, massa; dey is gone, too."

Reached Murfreesboro in the afternoon.

22. Men at work rebuilding the railroad bridge. General Dumont returns to Nashville. Colonel
Lytle, of the Tenth Ohio, will assume command of our brigade.

My servant has imposed upon me for about a month. He arises in the morning when he pleases;
prepares my meals when it suits his pleasure, and is disposed in every thing to make me adapt
my business to his own notions. This morning I became so provoked over his insolence and laziness
that, in a moment of passion, I knocked him down. Since then there has been a decided improvement
in his bearing. The blow seems to have awakened him to a sense of his duty.

25. So soon as the railroad is repaired, an immense amount of cotton will be sent East from
this section. The crops of two seasons are in the hands of the producer. We are encamped in
a cotton field. Peach trees are now in bloom, and many early flowers are to be seen.

26. The boys are having a grand cotillion party on the green in front of my tent, and appear
to have entirely forgotten the privations, hardships, and dangers of soldiering.

The army for a temperate, cleanly, cheerful man, is, I have no doubt, the healthiest place
in the world. The coarse fare provided by the Government is the most wholesome that can be
furnished. The boys oftenest on the sick list are those who are constantly running to the sutler's
for gingerbread, sweetmeats, raisins, and nuts. They eat enormous quantities of this unwholesome
stuff, and lose appetite for more substantial food. Finding that all desire for hard bread
and bacon has disappeared, they conclude that they must be ill, and instead of taking exercise,
lie in their tents until they finally become really sick. A contented, temperate, cheerful,
cleanly man will live forever in the army; but a despondent, intemperate, gluttonous, dirty
soldier, let him be never so fat and strong when he enters the service, is sure to get on the
sick list, and finally into the hospital.

The dance on the green is progressing with increased vigor. The music is excellent. At this
moment the gentlemen are going to the right; now they promenade all; in a minute more the ladies
will be in the center, and four hands round. That broth of an Irish boy, Conway, wears a rooster's
feather in his cap, and has for a partner a soldier twice as big as himself, whom he calls
Susan. As they swing Conway yells at the top of his voice: "Come round, old gal!"

28. General Mitchell returned from Nashville on a hand-car.

30. This is a pleasant Sunday. The sun shines, the birds sing, and the air stirs pleasantly.

The colored people of Murfreesboro pour out in great numbers on Sunday evenings to witness
dress parade, some of them in excellent holiday attire. The women sport flounces and the men
canes. Many are nearly white, and all slaves.

Murfreesboro is an aristocratic town. Many of the citizens have as fine carriages as are to
be seen in Cincinnati or Washington. On pleasant week-day evenings they sometimes come out
to witness the parades. The ladies, so far as I can judge by a glimpse through a carriage window,
are richly and elegantly dressed.

The poor whites are as poor as rot, and the rich are very rich. There is no substantial well-to-do
middle class. The slaves are, in fact, the middle class here. They are not considered so good,
of course, as their masters, but a great deal better than the white trash. One enthusiastic
colored man said in my hearing this evening: "You look like solgers. No wonder dat you wip
de white trash ob de Southern army. Dey ced dey could wip two ob you, but I guess one ob you
could wip two ob dem. You is jest as big as dey is, and maybe a little bigger."

A few miles from here, at a cross roads, is a guide-board: " 15 miles to Liberty." If liberty
were indeed but fifteen miles away, the stars to-night would see a thousand negroes dancing
on the way thither; old men with their wives and bundles; young men with their sweethearts;
little barefooted children, all singing in their hearts:

          "De day ob jubilee hab come, ho ho!"

On the march hither we passed a little, contemptible, tumble-down, seven-by-nine frame school-house.
Over the door, in large letters, were the words:

          CENTRAL ACADEMY.

The boys laughed and said: "If this is called an academy, what sort of things must their common
school-houses be?" But Tennessee is a beautiful State. All it lacks is free schools and freemen.

31. Colonel Keifer, in command of four hundred men, started with ninety wagons for Nashville.
He will repair the railroad in two or three places and return with provisions.

APRIL, 1862.

3. Struck our tents and started south, at two o'clock this afternoon; marched fifteen miles
and bivouacked for the night.

4. Resumed the march at seven o'clock in the morning, the Third in advance. At one place on
the road a young negro, perhaps eighteen years old, broke from his hiding in the woods, and
with hat in hand and a broad grin on his face, came running to me. "Massa," said he, "I wants
to go wid you." "I am sorry, my boy, that I can not take you. I am not permitted to do it."
The light went out of the poor fellow's eyes in a moment, and, putting on his slouched hat,
he went away sorrowful enough. It seems cruel to turn our backs on these, our only friends.
If a dog came up wagging his tail at sight of us, we could not help liking him better than
the master, who not only looks sullen and cross at our approach, but in his heart desires our
destruction.

As we approach the Alabama line we find fewer, but handsomer, houses; larger plantations, and
negroes more numerous. We saw droves of women working in the fields. When their ears caught
the first notes of the music, they would drop the hoe and come running to the road, their faces
all aglow with pleasure. May we not hope that their darkened minds caught glimpses of the sun
of a better life, now rising for them?

Last night my bed-room was as grand as that ever occupied by a prince. The floor was carpeted
with soft, green, velvety grass. For walls it had the primeval forest, with its drapery of
luxuriant foliage. The ceiling, higher even than one's thoughts can measure, was studded with
stars innumerable. The crescent moon added to its beauty for awhile, but disappeared long before
I dropped off to sleep.

We entered Shelbyville at noon. There are more Union people here than at Murfreesboro, and
we saw many glad faces as we marched through the streets. The band made the sky ring with music,
and the regiment deported splendidly. One old woman clapped her hands and thanked heaven that
we had come at last. Apparently almost wild with joy, she shouted after us, "God be with you!"

We went into camp on Duck river, one mile from the town.

5. General Mitchell complimented me on the good behavior and good appearance of the Third.
He said it was the best regiment in his division. At Bacon creek, Kentucky, he was particularly
severe on us, and attributed all our trouble to defective discipline and bad management on
the part of the officers. On the evening when the acceptance of Marrow's resignation was read,
the General was present. After parade was dismissed, I shook hands with him and said: "General,
give us a little time and we will make the Third the best regiment in your division." The old
gentleman was glad to hear me say so, but smiled dubiously. I am glad to have him acknowledge
so soon that we have fulfilled the promise.

At Murfreesboro heavy details were made for bridge building, and one day, while superintending
the work, the General addressed the detail from the Third in a very uncomplimentary way: "You
lazy scoundrels, go to work! Your regiment is the promptest in the division to report for duty,
but you will not work." At another time he gave an order to a soldier which was not obeyed
with sufficient alacrity, when he yelled: "What regiment do you belong to?" "The Third." "Well,
sir, I thought you were one of the obstinate devils of that regiment." At another time he rode
into our camp, and the boys failed to rise at his approach, when he reined in his horse suddenly
and shouted: "Get up here, you lazy scoundrels, and treat your superiors with respect!" Riding
on a little further, a private passed without touching his cap: "Hold on, here," said the General,
"don't you know how to salute a superior?" "Yes," stammered the boy, "but I did not see you."
"Hold up your head like a soldier, and you will see me."

One night I was making the rounds in the Second Ohio with the General. The guard did not turn
out promptly and he became angry; diving into the guard-tent to rout them up, he ran against
a big fellow so violently that he was nearly thrown off his legs. This increased his fury,
and seizing the soldier by the coat collar he shook him roughly, and said: "You insolent dog,
I'll stand insolence from no man. Officer, put this man under arrest immediately."

On the same night the guard of the Thirty-third Ohio turned out slowly, and some of them were
found to have stolen off to their quarters. The General was still in a bad humor. "Where is
the officer of the day?" he asked. "At his quarters, sir," replied a sergeant. "Present him
the compliments of the General commanding, and tell him if he does not come to the guard-tent
at once, I will send a file of soldiers after him." The officer appeared very soon. I refer
to these incidents to show simply that the men of other regiments received reprimands as well
as those of my own.

6. Late in the evening the officers of the regiment, with the string band, started on a serenading
expedition. After playing sundry airs and singing divers songs, Ethiopian and otherwise, at
the residence of a Mr. Warren, Miss Julia Gurnie, sister of Mrs. Warren, appeared on the veranda
and made to us a very pretty Union speech. After a general introduction to the family and a
cordial reception, we bade them good-night, and started for another portion of the village.
On the way thither we dropped into the store of a Mr. Armstrong, and imbibed rather copiously
of apple-jack, to protect us against the night air, which, by the way, is always dangerous
when apple-jack is convenient. After thus fortifying ourselves, we proceeded to the residence
of a Mr. Storey. His doors were thrown open, and we entered his parlors. Here we had the honor
to be introduced to Miss Storey, a handsome young lady, and Lieutenant O'Brien, nephew of Parson
Brownlow.

Lieutenant O'Brien is an officer of the rebel army. He accompanied Parson Brownlow to Nashville
under a flag of truce, and has been loitering on his way back until the present time. He wears
the Confederate gray, and when we entered the room was seated on the sofa with Miss Storey.
After being introduced in due form, I placed myself by the young lady and endeavored to at
least divide her attention with my Confederate friend. The apple-jack dilated most engagingly
on the remarkable beauty of the evening, the pleasantness of the weather generally, and the
delightfulness of Shelbyville. There was a piano in the room, and finally, after having occupied
her attention jointly with O'Brien for some time, I took the liberty to ask her to favor us
with a song; but she pleaded an awful cold, and asked to be excused. The apple-jack excused
her. The Storeys are pleasant people, and I trust that, full as we were, we did nothing to
lessen their respect for us.

From Mr. Storey's we went to the house of Mr. Cooper, President of the Shelbyville Bank, but
were not invited in, the family having retired.

Our last call was at the residence of Mr. Weasner, whilom member of the Tennessee Legislature.
The doors were here thrown open, and a cordial invitation given us to enter. A pitcher of good
wine was set out, and soon after Miss Weasner, a very pretty young lady, appeared, and played
and sang many patriotic songs. When finally we bade this pleasant family good night, it was
bordering on the Sabbath, and we returned to camp.

7. Colonel Kennett, at the head of three hundred cavalry, made a dash into the country toward
the Tennessee river, captured and destroyed a train on a branch of the Nashville and Chattanooga
Railroad, and returned to camp to-night with fifteen prisoners.

8. Party at Mr. Warren's, to which many of the officers have gone.

9. Moved at six o'clock in the morning. Roads sloppy, and in many places overflowed. Marched
sixteen miles.

10. Resumed the march at six o'clock A. M. Reached Fayetteville at noon. Passed through the
town and encamped one mile beyond. General Mitchell, with Turchin's and Sill's brigades and
two batteries, left for Huntsville on our arrival.

There are various and contradictory rumors afloat respecting the condition of affairs at Shiloh.
The rebel sympathizers here are jubilant over what they claim is reliable intelligence, that
our army has been surprised and defeated. Another report, coming via Nashville, says that a
part of our army was terribly beaten on Sunday; but reinforcements arriving on Monday, the
rebels were driven back, and our losses of the first day retrieved.

A courier arrived about dark with dispatches for General Mitchell; but they were forwarded
to him unopened.

13. Confused and unsatisfactory accounts still reach us of the great battle at Pittsburg Landing.

It is strange what fortune, good or ill, our division has had. Taking the lead at Green river,
we doubted not that a battle awaited us at Bowling Green. In advance again on the march to
Nashville, we were sure of fighting when we reached that place. Starting again, the division
pushed on alone to Murfreesboro, Shelbyville, Fayetteville, and finally to Huntsville and Decatur,
Alabama, at each place expecting a battle, and yet meeting with no opposition. With but one
division upon this line, we looked for hard work and great danger, and yet have found neither.
As we advanced the honors we expected to win have receded or gone elsewhere, to be snatched
up by other divisions. The boys say the Third is fated never to see a battle; that the Third
Ohio in Mexico saw no fighting; that there is something magical in the number which preserves
it from all danger.

14. The Fifteenth Kentucky remains here. The Third and Tenth Ohio moved at three in the afternoon.
Roads bad and progress slow. Bivouacked for the night near a distillery. Many of the men drunk;
the Tenth Ohio particularly wild.

15. Resumed the march at six in the morning. Passed the plantation of Leonidas Polk Walker.
He is said to be the wealthiest man in North Alabama. His domain extends for fifteen miles
along the road. The overseer's house and the negro huts near it make quite a village.

Met a good many young men returning from Corinth and Pittsburg Landing. Quite a number of them
had been in the Sunday's battle, and, being wounded, had been sent back to Huntsville. General
Mitchell had captured and released them on parole. Some had their heads bandaged, others their
arms, while others, unable to walk, were conveyed in wagons. As they passed, our men made many
good-natured remarks, as, "Well, boys, you're tired of soldiering, ar'n't you?" "Goin' home
on furlough, eh?" "Played out." "Another bold soger boy!" "See the soger!"

At one point a hundred or more colored people, consisting of men, women, and children, flocked
to the roadside. The band struck up, and they accompanied the regiment for a mile or more,
crowding and jostling each other in their endeavors to keep abreast of the music. The boys
were wonderfully amused, and addressed to the motley troupe all the commands known to the volunteer
service: "Steady on the right;" "Guide center;" "Forward, double quick."

Reached Huntsville at five in the afternoon.

16. Just after sunset Colonel Keifer and I strolled into the town, stopped at the hotel for
a moment, where we saw a rebel officer in his gray uniform running about on parole. Visited
the railroad depot, where some two hundred rebels are confined. The prisoners were variously
engaged; some chatting, others playing cards, while a few of a more devotional turn were singing

          "Come thou fount of every blessing,
           Tune my heart to sing thy praise."

By his timely arrival General Mitchell cut a division of rebel troops in two. Four thousand
got by, and were thus enabled to join the rebel army at Corinth, while about the same number
were obliged to return to Chattanooga.

20. At Decatur. The Memphis and Charleston Railroad crosses the Tennessee river at this point.
The town is a dilapidated old concern, as ugly as Huntsville is handsome.

There is a canebrake near the camp, and every soldier in the regiment has provided himself
with a fishing-rod; very long, straight, beautiful rods they are, too.

The white rebel, who has done his utmost to bring about the rebellion, is lionized, called
a plucky fellow, a great man, while the negro, who welcomes us, who is ready to peril his life
to aid us, is kicked, cuffed, and driven back to his master, there to be scourged for his kindness
to us. Billy, my servant, tells me that a colored man was whipped to death by a planter who
lives near here, for giving information to our men. I do not doubt it. We worm out of these
poor creatures a knowledge of the places where stores are secreted, or compel them to serve
as guides, and then turn them out to be scourged or murdered. There must be a change in this
regard before we shall be worthy of success.

21. A detachment went to Somerville yesterday. While searching for buried arms forty-two hundred
dollars, in gold, silver, and bank-notes, were found. The money is, undoubtedly, private property,
and will, I presume, be returned to the owner.

Fine, large fish are caught in the Tennessee. We have a buffalo for supper--a good sort of
fish--weighing six pounds.

General Mitchell has been made a Major-General. He is a deserving officer. No other man with
so few troops has ventured so far into the enemy's country, and accomplished so much. Battles
if they result favorably are great helps to the cause, but the general who by a bold dash accomplishes
equally important results, without loss of life, is entitled to as great praise certainly as
he who fights and wins a victory.

Colonel Keifer and I have been on horseback most of the afternoon, examining all the roads
leading from Decatur. On our way back to camp we called at Mr. Rather's. He was a member of
the Alabama Senate, favored the secession movement, but claims now to be heartily sorry for
it. He received us cordially; introduced us to Mrs. Rather, brought in wine of his own manufacture,
and urged us to drink heartily.

23. A beautiful day has gone by and a beautiful starlit night has come. The camp is very still.
The melody of the frog, if melody it can be called, and the ripple of the Tennessee, are the
only sounds to be heard. Thoughts of home and the quiet evenings; of youth and the gay visions;
of the thousand and one pleasant scenes in life; of what we might have been and where we might
have been, had the cards of our life been shuffled differently; of the deeds we might do, if
peradventure the opportunity were offered, and the little we have done; all come up to-night,
and we chew the cud over and over, without being able to determine whether it is bitter or sweet.

The enemy, three hundred strong, made a dash on our picket last night, wounded one man, and
made an unsuccessful effort to retake a bridge.

24. Our forces are on the alert. I lay down in my clothes last night, or rather this morning,
for it was between one and two o'clock when I retired. The division is stretched over a hundred
miles of railway, but in position to concentrate in a few hours.

Before leaving this place, the rebels built a cotton fort, using in its construction probably
five hundred bales.

To-day we filled the bridge over the Tennessee with combustible material, and put it in condition
to burn readily, in case we find it necessary to retire to the north side.

A man with his son and two daughters arrived to-night from Chattanooga, having come all the
way--one hundred and fifty miles probably--in a small skiff.

25. Price, with ten thousand men, is reported advancing from Memphis. Turchin had a skirmish
with his advance guard near Tuscumbia.

26. Turchin's brigade returned from Tuscumbia and crossed the Tennessee.

27. The Tenth and Third crossed to the north side of the river, and Lieutenant-Colonel Burke
of the Tenth applied the torch to the bridge; in a few minutes the fire extended along its
whole length, and as we marched away, the flames were hissing among its timbers, and the smoke
hung like a cloud above it.

28. Ordered to move to Stevenson. Took a freight train and proceeded to Bellefonte, where we
found a bridge had been burned; leaving the cars we marched until twelve o'clock at night,
and then bivouacked on the railroad track.

29. Resumed the march at daylight; one mile beyond Stevenson we found the Ninth Brigade, Colonel
Sill, in line of battle; formed the Third in support of Loomis' Battery, and remained in this
position until two in the afternoon, when General Mitchell arrived and ordered the Ninth Brigade,
Loomis' Battery and my regiment to move forward. At Widow's creek we met a detachment of the
enemy; a few shots from the battery and a volley from our skirmish line drove it back, and
we hastened on toward Bridgeport, exchanging shots occasionally with the enemy on the way.

About five o'clock we formed in line of battle, on high ground in the woods, one-half mile
from Bridgeport, the Third having the right of the column, and moved steadily forward until
we came in sight of the town and the enemy. The order to double quick was then given, and we
dashed into the village on a run. The enemy stood for a moment and then left as fast as legs
could carry him; in fact he departed in such haste that but few muskets and one shot from a
six pound gun were fired at us; one piece of his artillery was found still loaded. We captured
fifty prisoners, a number of horses, two pieces of artillery and many muskets. The bridge over
the Tennessee had already been filled with combustible material, and when the rear of the rebel
column passed over the match was applied; the fire extended rapidly, and we found it impossible
to proceed further.

The fright of the enemy was so great that, after getting beyond the river a mile or more, he
threw away over a thousand muskets, and abandoned every thing that could impede his flight.
Unfortunately, however, before a raft could be constructed to convey our troops across the
river, the rebels recovered from their panic, backed down a railroad train, and gathered up
most of their arms and camp equipage.

A little more coolness on the part of our troops would have enabled us to capture twenty-five
or thirty cavalrymen, who came riding into Bridgeport, supposing it to be still in the hands
of their friends. As they approached, a few scattering shots were fired at them by the excited
soldiers, when they wheeled and succeeded in making their escape.

30. The troops are short of provisions; there is a grist mill near, but the owner claims that
it is out of repair, and can not be put in running order for some days, as part of the machinery
is missing. On inquiry, I found that the owner of the mill was a rebel, and that the missing
machinery had probably been hidden by himself. I therefore said to him that if he did not have
the mill going by noon, I would burn it down; by ten o'clock it was running, and at three in
the afternoon we had an abundance of corn meal.

A detachment of the Third under Colonel Keifer crossed the river and reconnoitered the country
beyond. It found no enemy, but returned to camp with an abundance of bacon--an article very
greatly needed by our troops.

Started at nine o'clock P. M. for Stevenson; marched all night. Whenever we stopped on the
way to rest, the boys would fall asleep on the roadside, and we found much difficulty in getting
them through.

MAY, 1862.

1. Moved to Bellefonte.

2. Took the cars for Huntsville.

At Paint Rock the train was fired upon, and six or eight men wounded. As soon as it could be
done, I had the train stopped, and, taking a file of soldiers, returned to the village. The
telegraph line had been cut, and the wire was lying in the street. Calling the citizens together,
I said to them that this bushwhacking must cease. The Federal troops had tolerated it already
too long. Hereafter every time the telegraph wire was cut we would burn a house; every time
a train was fired upon we should hang a man; and we would continue to do this until every house
was burned and every man hanged between Decatur and Bridgeport. If they wanted to fight they
should enter the army, meet us like honorable men, and not, assassin-like, fire at us from
the woods and run. We proposed to hold the citizens responsible for these cowardly assaults,
and if they did not drive these bushwhackers from amongst them, we should make them more uncomfortable
than they would be in hell. I then set fire to the town, took three citizens with me, returned
to the train, and proceeded to Huntsville.

Paint Rock has long been a rendezvous for bushwhackers and bridge burners. One of the men taken
is a notorious guerrilla, and was of the party that made the dash on our wagon train at Nashville.

The week has been an active one. On last Saturday night I slept a few hours on the bridge at
Decatur. The next night I bivouacked in a cotton field; the next I lay from midnight until
four in the morning on the railroad track; the next I slept at Bridgeport on the soft side
of a board, and on the return to Stevenson I did not sleep at all. My health is excellent.

5. Captain Cunard was sent yesterday to Paint Rock to arrest certain parties suspected of burning
bridges, tearing up the railroad track, and bushwhacking soldiers. To-day he returned with
twenty-six prisoners.

General Mitchell is well pleased with my action in the Paint Rock matter. The burning of the
town has created a sensation, and is spoken of approvingly by the officers and enthusiastically
by the men. It is the inauguration of the true policy, and the only one that will preserve
us from constant annoyance.

The General rode into our camp this evening, and made us a stirring speech, in which he dilated
upon the rapidity of our movements and the invincibility of our division.

8. The road to Shelbyville is unsafe for small parties. Guerrilla bands are very active. Two
or three of our supply trains have been captured and destroyed. Detachments are sent out every
day to capture or disperse these citizen cut-throats.

10. Have been appointed President of a Board of Administration for the post of Huntsville.
After an ineffectual effort to get the members of the Board together, I concluded to spend
a day out of camp, the first for more than six months; so I strolled over to the hotel, took
a bath, ate dinner, smoked, read, and slept until supper time, dispatched that meal, and returned
to my quarters in the cool of the evening.

We have in our camp a superabundance of negroes. One of these, a Georgian, belonged to a captain
of rebel cavalry, and fell into our hands at Bridgeport. Since that affair he has attached
himself to me. The other negroes I do not know. In fact they are too numerous to mention. Whence
they came or whither they are going it is impossible to say. They lie around contentedly, and
are delighted when we give them an opportunity to serve us. All the colored people of Alabama
are anxious to go "wid yer and wait on you folks." There are not fifty negroes in the South
who would not risk their lives for freedom. The man who affirms that they are contented and
happy, and do not desire to escape, is either a falsifier or a fool.

11. Attended divine service with Captain McDougal at the Presbyterian Church. The edifice is
very fine. The audience was small; the sermon tolerable. Troubles, the preacher said, were
sent to discipline us. The army was of God; they should, therefore, submit to it, not as slaves,
but as Christians, just as they submitted to other distasteful and calamitous dispensations.

12. My letters from home have fallen into the hands of John Morgan. The envelopes were picked
up in the road and forwarded to me. My wife should feel encouraged. It is not every body's
letters that are pounced upon at midnight, taken at the point of the bayonet, and read by the
flickering light of the camp-fire.

Moved at two o'clock this afternoon. Reached Athens after nightfall, and bivouacked on the
Fair Ground.

13. Marched to Elk river. A great many negroes from the neighboring plantations came to see
us, among them an elderly colored man, whose sanctimonious bearing indicated that he was a
minister of the Gospel. The boys insisted that he should preach to them, and, after some hesitation,
the old man mounted a stump, lined a hymn from memory, sang it, and then commenced his discourse.
He had not proceeded very far when he uttered this sentence: "De good Lord He hab called me
to preach de Gospil. Many sinners hab been wakened by my poor words to de new life. De Lord
He hab been very kind to me, an' I can nebber pay Him fur all He done fur me."

"Never pay the Lord?" broke in the boys; "never pay the Lord? Oh! you wicked nigger! Just hear
him! He says he is never going to pay the Lord!"

The preacher endeavored to explain: the kindness and mercy of the Lord had been so great that
it was impossible for a poor sinner to make any sufficient return; but the boys would accept
no explanation. "Here," they shouted, "is a nigger who will not pay the Lord!" and they groaned
and cried, "Oh! Oh!" and swore that they never saw so wicked a man before. Fortunately for
the poor colored man, a Dutchman began to interrogate him in broken English, and the two soon
fell into a discussion of some point in theology, when the boys espoused the negro's side of
the question, and insisted that the Dutchman was no match for him in argument. Finally, by
groans and hisses, they compelled the Dutchman to abandon the controversy, leaving the colored
man well pleased that he had vanquished his opponent and re-established himself in the good
opinion of his hearers.

14. Resumed the march at two o'clock in the morning, and proceeded to a point known as the
Lower Ferry. Ascertaining here that the enemy had recrossed the Tennessee, and was pushing
southward, we abandoned pursuit and turned to retrace our steps to Huntsville. Leaving the
regiment in command of Colonel Keifer, I accompanied General Mitchell on the return, and reached
camp a little after dark.

16. Appointed Provost Marshal of the city. Have been busy hearing all sorts of complaints,
signing passes for all sorts of persons, sending guards to this and that place in the city,
and doing the numerous other things necessary to be done in a city under martial law. Captain
Mitchell and Lieutenant Wilson are my assistants, and, in fact, do most of the work. The citizens
say I am the youngest Governor they ever had.

17. Captain Mitchell and I were invited to a strawberry supper at Judge Lane's. Found General
Mitchell and staff, Colonel Kennett, Lieutenant-Colonel Birdsall, and Captain Loomis, of the
army, there. Mr. and Mrs. Judge Lane, Colonel and Major Davis, and a general, whose name I
can not recall, were the only citizens present. General Mitchell monopolized the conversation.
He was determined to make all understand that he was the greatest of living soldiers. Had his
counsel prevailed, the Confederacy would have been knocked to pieces long ago. The evening
was a very pleasant one.

A few days ago we had John Morgan utterly annihilated; but he seems to have gathered up the
dispersed atoms and rebuilt himself. In the destruction of our supply trains he imagines, doubtless,
that he is inflicting a great injury upon our division; but he is mistaken. The bread and meat
we fail to get from the loyal States are made good to us from the smoke-houses and granaries
of the disloyal. Our boys find Alabama hams better than Uncle Sam's sidemeat, and fresh bread
better than hard crackers. So that every time this dashing cavalryman destroys a provision
train, their hearts are gladdened, and they shout "Bully for Morgan!"

19. Rumor says that Richmond is in the hands of our troops; and from the same source we learn
that a large force of the enemy is between us and Nashville. Fifteen hundred mounted men were
within seventeen miles of Huntsville yesterday. A regiment with four pieces of artillery, under
command of Colonel Lytle, was sent toward Fayetteville to look after them.

20. The busiest time in the Provost Marshal's office is between eight o'clock in the morning
and noon. Then many persons apply for passes to go outside the lines and for guards to protect
property. Others come to make complaints that houses have been broken open, or that horses,
dogs, and negroes, have strayed away or been stolen.

23. The men of Huntsville have settled down to a patient endurance of military rule. They say
but little, and treat us with all politeness. The women, however, are outspoken in their hostility,
and marvelously bitter. A flag of truce came in last night from Chattanooga, and the bearers
were overwhelmed with visits and favors from the ladies. When they took supper at the Huntsville
Hotel, the large dining-room was crowded with fair faces and bright eyes; but the men prudently
held aloof.

A day or two ago one of our Confederate prisoners died. The ladies filled the hearse to overflowing
with flowers, and a large number of them accompanied the soldier to his last resting-place.

The foolish, yet absolute, devotion of the women to the Southern cause does much to keep it
alive. It encourages, nay forces, the young to enter the army, and compels them to continue
what the more sensible Southerners know to be a hopeless struggle. But we must not judge these
Huntsville women too harshly. Here are the families of many of the leading men of Alabama;
of generals, colonels, majors, captains, and lieutenants in the Confederate army; of men, even,
who hold cabinet positions at Richmond, and of many young men who are clerks in the departments
of the rebel Government. Their wives, daughters, sisters, and sweethearts feel, doubtless,
that the honor of these gentlemen, and possibly their lives, depend upon the success of the
Confederacy.

To-day two young negro men from Jackson county came in with their wives. They were newly married,
and taking their wedding journey. The vision of a better and higher life had lured them from
the old plantation where they were born. At midnight they had stolen quietly away, plodded
many weary miles on foot, confident that the rainbow and the bag of gold were in the camp of
the Federal army.

25. This in-door life has made me ill. I am as yellow as an orange. The doctors say I have
the jaundice.

JUNE, 1862.

3. Have requested General Mitchell to relieve me from duty as Provost Marshal; am now wholly
unfit to do business.

We have heard of the evacuation of Corinth. The simple withdrawal of the enemy amounts to but
little, if anything; he still lives, is organized and ready to do battle on some other field.

5. Go home on sick leave.

       *       *       *       *       *

25. There were three little girls on the Louisville packet, about the age of my own children.
They were great romps. I said to one, "what is your name?" She replied "Pudin' an' tame." So
I called her Pudin', and she became very angry, so angry indeed that she cried. The other little
girls laughed heartily, and called her Pudin' also, and then asked my name. I answered John
Smith; they insisted then that Pudin' was my wife, and called her Pudin' Smith. This made Pudin'
furious, and she abused her companions and me terribly; but John Smith invested a little money
in cherries, and thus pacified Pudin', and so got to Louisville without getting his hair pulled.
I saw no more of Pudin' until she got off the cars at Elizabethtown. Going up to her, we shook
hands, and I said, "Good-by, Pudin'." She hung her head for a moment, and tried to look angry,
but finally breaking into a laugh she said, "I don't like you at all any way, good-by."

27. Reached Huntsville. The regiment in good condition, boys well; weather hot. General Buell
arrived last night. McCook's Division is here; Nelson, Crittenden, and Wood on the road hither.

JULY, 1862.

2. We know, or think we know, that a great battle has been fought near Richmond, but the result
for some reason is withheld. We speculate, talk, and compare notes, but this makes us only
the more eager for definite information.

I am almost as well as ever, not quite so strong, but a few days will make me right again.

3. It is exceedingly dull; we are resting as quietly and leisurely as we could at home. There
are no drills, and no expeditions. The army is holding its breath in anxiety to hear from Richmond.
If McClellan has been whipped, the country must in time know it; if successful, it would be
rejoiced to hear it. Why, therefore, should the particulars, and even the result of the fighting,
be suppressed. Rumor gives us a thousand conflicting stories of the battle, but rumor has many
tongues and lies with all.

General Mitchell departed for Washington yesterday.

The rebels at Chattanooga claim that McClellan has been terribly whipped, and fired guns along
their whole line, within hearing of our troops, in honor of the victory.

A lieutenant of the Nineteenth Illinois, who fell into the enemy's hands, has just returned
on parole, and claims to have seen a dispatch from the Adjutant-General of the Southern Confederacy,
stating that McClellan had been defeated and his army cut to pieces. He believes it.

My horse is as fat as a stall-fed ox. He has had a very easy time during my absence.

To-morrow is the Fourth, hitherto glorious, but now, like to-day's meridian sun, clouded, and
sending out a somewhat uncertain light. Has the great experiment failed? Shall we hail the
Fourth as the birthday of a great Nation, or weep over it as the beginning of a political enterprise
which resulted in dissolution, anarchy and ruin? Let us lift up our eyes and be hopeful. The
dawn may be even now breaking.

The boys propose to have a barbecue to-morrow, and roast a corpulent, good-natured Ethiopian,
named Cæsar. They are now discussing the matter very voluminously, in Cæsar's presence. He
thinks they are probably joking; but still they seem to be greatly in earnest, and he knows
little of these Yankees, and thinks maybe his "massa tole him de truff about dem, after all."
"The Fourth is a great day," the boys go on to say, "whereon Yankees always dine on roast nigger.
It is a part of their religion. It is this which makes colored folks so scarce in the North."
Shall Cæsar be stuffed or not? That is really the only question. One party claims that if Cæsar
be stuffed with vegetables and nicely roasted, he will be delicious. The other party insists
that Cæsar is sufficiently stuffed already; vegetables would not improve him. They have eaten
roast nigger both ways and know. So the discussion waxes hot, and the dusky Alabamian has some
fear, even, that his last day may be drawing very near.

4. Thirty-four guns were fired at noon.

5. An Atlanta paper of the 1st instant says the Confederates have won a decisive victory at
Richmond. No Northern papers have been allowed to come into camp.

6. McCook moved toward Chattanooga. General W. S. Smith has command of our division.

The boys have a great many game chickens. Not long ago Company G, of the Third, and Company
G, of the Tenth, had a rooster fight, the stakes being fifteen dollars a side. After numerous
attacks, retreats, charges, and counter-charges, the Tenth rooster succumbed like a hero, and
the other was carried in triumph from the field. General Mitchell made his appearance near
the scene at the conclusion of the conflict; but, supposing the crowd to be an enthusiastic
lot of soldiers who were cheering him, passed on, well pleased with them and himself.

The boys have a variety of information from Richmond to-day. One party affirms that McClellan
has been cut to pieces; that a dispatch to that effect has been received by General Buell.
Another insists that he has obtained a decided advantage, and is heating the shot to burn Richmond;
while still another affirms that he has utterly destroyed Richmond, and, Marius-like, is sitting
amid the ruins of that ill-fated city, eating sow belly and doe-christers.

7. Am detailed to serve on court-martial.

DETAIL FOR THE COURT.

          General James A. Garfield.
          Colonel Jacob Ammen.
          Colonel Curren Pope.
          Colonel Jones.
          Colonel Marc Mundy.
          Colonel Sedgewick.
          Colonel John Beatty.

Convened at Athens at ten o'clock this morning. Organized and adjourned to meet at ten to-morrow.

General Buell proposes, I understand, to give General Mitchell's administration of affairs
in North Alabama a thorough overhauling. It is asserted that the latter has been interested
in cotton speculations; but investigation, I am well satisfied, will show that General Mitchell
has been strictly honest, and has done nothing to compromise his honor, or cast even the slightest
shadow upon his good name.

The first case to be tried is that of Colonel J. B. Turchin, Nineteenth Illinois. He is charged
with permitting his command, the Eighth Brigade, to steal, rob, and commit all manner of outrages.

10. Our court has been adjourning from day to day, until Colonel Turchin should succeed in
procuring counsel; but it is now in full blast.

Nelson's division is quartered here. The town is enveloped in a dense cloud of dust.

14. There are many wealthy planters in this section. One of the witnesses before our court
has a cotton crop on hand worth sixty thousand dollars. Another swears that Turchin's brigade
robbed him of twelve hundred dollars' worth of silver plate.

Turchin's brigade has stolen a hundred thousand dollars' worth of watches, plate, and jewelry,
in Northern Alabama. Turchin has gone to one extreme, for war can not justify the gutting of
private houses and the robbery of peaceable citizens, for the benefit of individual officers
or soldiers; but there is another extreme, more amiable and pleasant to look upon, but not
less fatal to the cause. Buell is likely to go to that. He is inaugurating the dancing-master
policy: "By your leave, my dear sir, we will have a fight; that is, if you are sufficiently
fortified; no hurry; take your own time." To the bushwhacker: "Am sorry you gentlemen fire
at our trains from behind stumps, logs, and ditches. Had you not better cease this sort of
warfare? Now do, my good fellows, stop, I beg of you." To the citizen rebel: "You are a chivalrous
people; you have been aggravated by the abolitionists into subscribing cotton to the Southern
Confederacy; you had, of course, a right to dispose of your own property to suit yourselves,
but we prefer that you would, in future, make no more subscriptions of that kind, and in the
meantime we propose to protect your property and guard your negroes." Turchin's policy is bad
enough; it may indeed be the policy of the devil; but Buell's policy is that of the amiable
idiot. There is a better policy than either. It will neither steal nor maraud; it will do nothing
for the sake of individual gain, and, on the other hand, it will not crouch to rebels; it will
not fear to hurt the feelings of traitors; it will not fritter away the army and the revenue
of the Government in the insane effort to protect men who have forfeited all right to protection.
The policy we need is one that will march boldly, defiantly, through the rebel States, indifferent
as to whether this traitor's cotton is safe, or that traitor's negroes run away; calling things
by their right names; crushing those who have aided and abetted treason, whether in the army
or out. In short, we want an iron policy that will not tolerate treason; that will demand immediate
and unconditional obedience as the price of protection.

15. The post at Murfreesboro, occupied by two regiments of infantry and one battery, under
Crittenden, of Indiana, has surrendered to the enemy. A bridge and a portion of the railroad
track between this place and Pulaski have been destroyed. A large rebel force is said to be
north of the Tennessee. It crossed the river at Chattanooga.

18. The star of the Confederacy appears to be rising, and I doubt not it will continue to ascend
until the rose-water policy now pursued by the Northern army is superseded by one more determined
and vigorous. We should look more to the interests of the North, and less to those of the South.
We should visit on the aiders, abettors, and supporters of the Southern army somewhat of the
severity which hitherto has been aimed at that army only. Who are most deserving of our leniency,
those who take arms and go to the field, or those who remain at home, raising corn, oats, and
bacon to subsist them? Plain people, who know little of constitutional hair-splitting, could
decide this question only one way; but it seems those who have charge of our armies can not
decide it in any sensible way. They say: "You would not disturb peaceable citizens by levying
contributions from them?" Why not? If the husbands, brothers, and fathers of these people,
their natural leaders and guardians, do not care for them, why should we? If they disregard
and trample upon that law which gave all protection, and plunge the country into war, why should
we be perpetually hindered and thwarted in our efforts to secure peace by our care for those
whom they have abandoned? If we make the country through which we pass furnish supplies to
our army, the inhabitants will have less to furnish our enemies. The surplus products of the
country should be gathered into the Federal granaries, so that they could not, by possibility,
go to feed the rebels. The loyal and innocent might occasionally and for the present suffer,
but peace when once established would afford ample opportunity to investigate and repay these
sufferers. Shall we continue to protect the property of our enemies, and lose the lives of
our friends? It is said that it is hard to deprive men of their horses, cattle, grain, simply
because they differ from us in opinion; but is it not harder still to deprive men of their
lives for the same reason? The opinions from which we differ in this instance are treasonable.
The man who, of his own free will, supplies the wood is no whit better than he who kindles
the fire; and the man who supplies the ammunition neither better nor worse than he who does
the killing. The severest punishment should be inflicted upon the soldier who appropriates
either private or public property to his own use; but the Government should lay its mailed
hand upon treasonable communities, and teach them that war is no holiday pastime.

19. Returned to Huntsville this afternoon; General Garfield with me. He will visit our quarters
to-morrow and dine with us.

General Rousseau has been assigned to the command of our division. I am glad to hear that he
discards the rose-water policy of General Buell under his nose, and is a great deal more thorough
and severe in his treatment of rebels than General Mitchell. He sent the Rev. Mr. Ross to jail
to-day for preaching a secession sermon last Sunday. He damns the rebel sympathizers, and says
if the negro stands in the way of the Union he must get out. Rousseau is a Kentuckian, and
it is very encouraging to learn that he talks as he does.

Turchin has been made a brigadier.

21. An order issued late last evening transferring our court from Athens to Huntsville.

Colonel Turchin's case is still before us. No official notice of his promotion has been communicated
to the court.

23. Garfield and Ammen are our guests. They are sitting with Colonel Keifer, in the open air,
in front of our tent. We have eaten supper, and Colonel Ammen has the floor; he always has
it. He is somewhat superstitious. He never likes to see the moon through brush. He is to some
extent a believer in dreams. On one occasion he dreamed that his father, who was drowned, came
up from the muddy water, looked angrily at him, and endeavored to stab him with a rusty knife.
In his effort to escape he awoke. Falling to sleep again, his father reappeared and made a
second attempt to stab him. This so thoroughly aroused and troubled him that he could not sleep.
In the morning he told this dream to a friend, and was informed that two members of his family
would soon die. Soon after he was summoned home, when he found his mother dead and his sister
dying of cholera. At another time he felt a sharp pain in the back of his neck, and was impressed
with the idea that he had been shot. Soon afterward he learned that his brother in the South
had been shot in the back of the neck and killed. He believes that his own sensation of pain
was experienced at the very instant when his brother received the fatal wound; but as he could
not remember the precise hour when he was startled by the disagreeable impression, he could
not be positive that the occurrences were simultaneous. When going into battle at Greenbrier
and at Shiloh, the belief that his time to die had not come rendered him cool and fearless.
He never felt more at ease or more secure. So when, at two different times, he was very ill,
and informed that he could not live through the night, he felt absolutely sure that he would
recover.

Garfield had a very impressionable relative. The night before his fight with Humphrey Marshall,
she wrote a very accurate general description of the battle, giving the position of the troops;
referring to the reinforcements which came up, and the great shout with which they were welcomed.

These mysterious impressions suggested the existence of an undiscovered, or possibly an undeveloped
principle in nature, which time and investigation would ultimately make familiar. He is a larger
and handsomer man than Mitchell, but I think lacks the latter's energy, culture, system, and
industry.

24. We can not boast of what is occurring in this department. The tide seems to have set against
us every-where. The week of battles before Richmond was a week of defeats. I trust the new
policy indicated by the confiscation act, just passed by Congress, will have good effect. It
will, at least, enable us to weaken the enemy, as we have not thus far done, and strengthen
ourselves, as we have hitherto not been able to do. Slavery is the enemy's weak point, the
key to his position. If we can tear down this institution, the rebels will lose all interest
in the Confederacy, and be too glad to escape with their lives, to be very particular about
what they call their rights.

Colonel Ammen has just received notice of his confirmation as brigadier. He is a strange combination
of simplicity and wisdom, full of good stories, and tells those against himself with a great
deal more pleasure than any others.

Colonels Turchin, Mihalotzy, Gazley, and Captain Edgerton form a group by the window; all are
smoking vigorously, and speculating probably on the result of the present and prospective trials.
Mihalotzy is what is commonly termed "Dutch;" but whether he is from the German States, Russia,
Prussia, or Poland, I know not.

Ammen left camp early this morning, saying he would go to town and see if he could find an
idea, he was pretty nearly run out. He talks incessantly; his narratives abound in episode,
parenthesis, switches, side-cuts, and before he gets through, one will conclude a dozen times
that he has forgotten the tale he entered upon, but he never does.

Colonel Stanley, Eighteenth Ohio, has just come in. He has in his time been a grave and reverend
senator of Ohio; he never loses sight of this fact, and never fails to impress it upon those
with whom he comes in contact.

An order has just been issued, and is now being circulated among the members of the court,
purporting to come from General Ammen, and signed with his name. It recites the fact of his
promotion, and forbids any one hereafter to call him Uncle Jacob, that title being entirely
too familiar and undignified for one of his rank. All who violate the order are threatened
with the direst punishment.

The General says if such orders please the court, he will not object to their being issued;
it certainly requires but very little ability to get them up.

The General prides himself on what he calls delicate irony. He says, in the town of Ripley,
men who can not manage a dray successfully criticise the conduct of this and that general with
great severity; when they appeal to him, he tells them quietly he has not the capacity to judge
of such matters; it requires a great mind and a thorough understanding of all the circumstances.

After all I have said about General Ammen, it is hardly necessary to remark that he does most
of the talking.

To-day Garfield and Keifer, who of course entertain the kindliest feelings, and the greatest
respect for the General, in a spirit of fun, entered into a conspiracy against him. They proposed
for one night to do all the talking themselves, and not allow him to edge in even a word. After
supper Garfield was to commence with the earliest incidents of his childhood, and without allowing
himself to be interrupted, continue until he had given a complete narrative of his life and
adventures; then Keifer was to strike in and finish up the night. General Ammen was not to
be permitted to open his mouth except to yawn.

The regiment went on a foraging expedition yesterday, under Colonel Keifer, and was some fifteen
miles from Huntsville, in the direction of the Tennessee river.

At one o'clock last night our picket was confronted by about one hundred and fifty of the enemy's
cavalry; but no shots were exchanged.

29. The rebel cavalry were riding in the mountains south of us last night. A heavy mounted
patrol of our troops was making the rounds at midnight. There was some picket firing along
toward morning; but nothing occurred of importance.

Our forces are holding the great scope of country between Memphis and Bridgeport, guarding
bridges, railroads, and towns, frittering away the strength of a great army, and wasting our
men by permitting them to be picked up in detail. In short, we put down from fifty to one hundred,
here and there, at points convenient to the enemy, as bait for them. They take the bait frequently,
and always when they run no risk of being caught. The climate, and the insane effort to garrison
the whole country, consumes our troops, and we make no progress. May the good Lord be with
us, and deliver us from idleness and imbecility; and especially, O! Lord, grant a little every-day
sense--that very common sense which plain people use in the management of their business affairs--to
the illustrious generals who have our armies in hand!

30. We have just concluded Colonel Turchin's case, and forwarded the proceedings to General Buell.

General Ammen for many years belonged to a club, the members of which were required either
to sing a song or tell a story. He could not sing, and, consequently, took to stories, and
very few can tell one better. The General is a member of the Episcopal Church, and, although
a pious man, emphasizes his language occasionally by an oath. When conducting his brigade from
the boat at Pittsburg Landing to position on the field, he was compelled to pass through the
immense crowd of skedaddlers who had sought shelter under the bluffs from the storm of bullets.
A chaplain of one of the disorganized regiments was haranguing the mob in what may be termed
the whangdoodle style: "Rally, men; rally, and we may yet be saved. O! rally! For God and your
country's sake rally! R-a-l-l-y! O-h! r-a-l-l-y around the flag of your c-o-w-n-try, my c-o-wn-tryme-n!"
"Shut up, you God damned old fool!" said Ammen, "or I'll break your head! Get out of the way!"

General Garfield is lying on the lounge unwell. He has an attack of the jaundice, and will,
I think, start home to-morrow.

I find an article on the tables of the South, which, with coffee, I like very much. The wheat
dough is rolled very thin, cut in strips the width of a table-knife, and about as long, baked
until well done; if browned, all the better. They become crisp and brittle, and better than
the best of crackers.

31. General Ammen is so interesting to me that I can not avoid talking about him, especially
when items are scarce, as they are now. Our court takes a recess at one, and assembles again
at half-past three, giving us two hours and a half for dinner. To-day the conversation turned
on the various grasses North and South. After the General had described the peculiar grasses
of many sections, he drifted to the people South who lived on farms, where he had seen a variety
of grass unknown in the North, and the following story was told:

In the part of Mississippi where he resided for a number of years, there lived a Northern family
named Greenfield. When he was there the farm was known as the Greenfield farm. It was the peculiar
grass on this farm which suggested the story. The Greenfields were Quakers, originally from
Philadelphia. One of the wealthiest members of the family was a little weazen-faced old maid,
of fifty years or more. Her overseer was a large, fine looking young man named Roach. After
he had been in her service a year she took a fancy to him, and proposed to give him twenty
thousand dollars if he would marry her. He accepted, and they were duly married. A year after
she grew tired of wedlock, and proposed to give thirty thousand dollars to be unmarried. He
accepted this proposition also. They united in a petition for a divorce and obtained it. Roach
took the fifty thousand dollars thus made and invested it in the Yazoo country. The property
increased in value rapidly, and he soon became a millionaire. When General Ammen saw him, he
had married again more to his liking, and was one of the prominent men in his section.

The farm of the Gillyards lay near that of the Greenfields, and this suggested another story.
A Miss Gillyard was a great heiress; owned plantations in Mississippi, and an interest in a
large estate in South Carolina. A doctor of prepossessing appearance came from the latter State,
and commenced practice in the neighborhood, and an acquaintance of a few months resulted in
a marriage. After living together a year very happily, they started on a visit to South Carolina;
she to visit relatives and look after her interest in the estate mentioned, and he to see his
friends. On the way it was agreed that he should attend to his wife's business, and so full
power to sell or dispose of the property, or her interest therein, was given him. At Charleston
she was met by the relatives with whom she was to remain, while the Doctor proceeded to a different
part of the State to see his friends, and afterward attend to business. When about to separate,
like a jolly soul, he proposed that they should drink to each other's health during the separation.
The wine was produced; they touched glasses, and raised them to their lips, when the door opened
suddenly and the Doctor was called. Setting his wine on the table, he stepped out of the room,
and the wife, more affectionate, possibly, than most women, took the glass which his lips had
touched and put her own in its place. The husband reappeared shortly, and they drank off the
wine. In an hour he was dead, and she in the deepest affliction. After she had recovered somewhat
from the shock, she left Charleston to visit his people. She found them poor, and that he had
a wife and three children. The truth then broke in upon her; he had drank the wine prepared
for her.

This story suggested one involving some of Miss Gillyard's relations.

Two lady cousins resided in the same town. The father of one had amassed a handsome fortune
in the tailoring business. The father of the other had been a saddler, and, carrying on the
business extensively, had also become wealthy. The descendant of the saddler would refer to
her cousin's father as the tailor, and intimate that his calling was certainly not that of
a gentleman. The other hearing of this, and meeting her one evening at a large party, said:
"Cousin Julia, I hear that you have said my father was nothing but a tailor. Now, this is true;
he was a tailor, and a very good one, too. By his industry and judgment he made a large fortune,
which I am enjoying. I respect him; am grateful, and not ashamed of him, if he was a tailor.
Your father was a saddler, and a very good one. He, by industry and good management, accumulated
great wealth, which you are enjoying. I see no reason, therefore, why we should not both be
proud of our fathers, and I certainly can see no reason why a man-tailor should not be just
as good as a horse-tailor."

AUGUST, 1862.

1. The Judge-Advocate, Captain Swayne, was unwell this morning. The court, therefore, took
a recess until three o'clock. Captain Edgerton's case was disposed of last evening. Colonel
Mihalotzy's will come before us to-day. A court-martial proceeds always with due respect to
red tape. The questions to witnesses are written out; the answers are written down; the statement
of the accused is in writing, and the defense of the accused's counsel is written; so that
the court snaps its fingers at time, as if it were of no consequence, and seven men, against
whom there are no charges, are likely to spend their natural lives in investigating seven men,
more or less, against whom there are charges. It is thus the rebels are being subjugated, the
Union re-united, the Constitution and the laws enforced.

3. Among the curiosities in camp are two young coons and a pet opossum. The latter is the property
of Augustus Cæsar, the esquire of Adjutant Wilson. Cæsar restrains the opossum with a string,
and looks forward with great pleasure to the time when he will be fat enough to eat. The coons
are just now playing on the wild cherry tree in front of my tent, and several colored boys
are watching them with great interest. One of these, a native Alabamian, tells me "de coon
am a great fiter; he can wip a dog berry often; but de possum can wip de coon, for he jist
takes one holt on de coon, goes to sleep, an' nebber lets go; de coon he scratch an' bite,
but de possum he nebber min'; he keeps his holt, shuts his eyes, and bimeby de coon he knocks
under. De she coon am savager dan de he coon. I climbed a tree onct, an' de she coon come out
ob her hole mitey savage, an' I leg go, an' tumbled down to de groun', and like ter busted
my head. De she coon am berry savage. De possum can't run berry fast, but de coon can run faster'n
a dog. You can tote a possum, but you can't tote a coon, he scratch an' bite so."

The gentlemen of the South have a great fondness for jewelry, canes, cigars, and dogs. Out
of forty white men thirty-nine, at least, will have canes, and on Sunday the fortieth will
have one also. White men rarely work here. There are, it is true, tailors, merchants, saddlers,
and jewelers, but the whites never drive teams, work in the fields, or engage in what may be
termed rough work.

Judging from the number of stores and present stocks, Huntsville, in the better times, does
a heavier retail jewelry business than Cleveland or Columbus. Every planter, and every wealthy
or even well-to-do man, has plate. Diamonds, rings, gold watches, chains, and bracelets are
to be found in every family. The negroes buy large amounts of cheap jewelry, and the trade
in this branch is enormous. One may walk a whole day in a Northern city without seeing a ruffled
shirt. Here they are very common.

The case of Colonel Mihalotzy was concluded to-day.

5. General Ammen was a teacher for years at West Point, at Natchez, Mississippi, in Kentucky,
Indiana, and recently at Ripley, Ohio. He has devoted particular attention to the education
of children, and has no confidence in the usual mode of teaching them. He labors to strengthen
or cultivate, first: attention, and to this end never allows their interest in anything to
flag; whenever he discovers that their minds have become weary of a subject, he takes the book
from them and turns their thought in a new direction. Nor does he allow their attention to
be divided between two or three objects at the same time. By his method they acquire the power
to concentrate their whole mind upon a given subject. The next thing to be cultivated is observation;
teach them to notice whatever may be around, and describe it. What did you see when you came
up street? The child may answer a pig. What is a pig, how did it look, describe it. Saw a man,
did you? Was he large or small? How was he dressed? A room? What is a room? Thus will they
be taught to observe everything, and to talk about what they observe, and learn not only to
think but to express their thoughts. He often amuses them by what he terms opposites. To illustrate:
He will say "black," the child will answer "white." Long, short; good, bad; heavy, light; dark,
light. "What kind of light," he will ask, "is that kind which is the opposite of heavy?" Here
is a puzzle for them. Next in importance to observation, and to be strengthened at the same
time, is the memory. They are required to learn little pieces; short stories perhaps, or songs
that their minds can comprehend; not too long, for neither the memory nor the attention should
be overtaxed.

7. As General Ammen and I were returning to camp this evening, we were joined by Colonel Fry,
of General Buell's staff, who informed us that General Robert McCook was murdered, near Winchester,
yesterday, by a small band of guerrillas. McCook was unwell, riding in an ambulance some distance
in advance of the column; while stopping in front of a farm-house to make some enquiry, the
guerrillas made a sudden dash, the escort fled, and McCook was killed while lying in the ambulance
defenseless. When the Dutchmen of his old regiment learned of the unfortunate occurrence they
became uncontrollable, and destroyed the buildings and property on five plantations near the
scene of the murder. McCook had recently been promoted for gallantry at Mill Springs. He was
a brave, bluff, talented man, and his loss will be sorely felt.

Captain Mitchell started home in charge of a recruiting party this morning. I am anxious to
fill the regiment to a thousand strong.

8. General Ammen was at Buell's quarters this evening, and ascertains that hot work is expected
soon. The enemy is concentrating a heavy force between Bridgeport and Chattanooga.

The night is exceedingly beautiful; our camp lies at the foot of a low range of mountains called
the Montesano; the sky seems supported by them.

9. I have sometimes wondered how unimportant occurrences could suggest so much, but the faculty
of association brings similar things before the mind, and a thousand collateral subjects as
well. The band of the Tenth Ohio is playing. Where, and under what circumstances, have I heard
other bands? The question carries my thoughts into half the States of the Union, into a multitude
of places, into an innumerable variety of scenes--faces, conversations, theatres, balls, speeches,
songs--the chain is endless, and it might be followed for a lifetime.

10. The enemy, a thousand strong, is said to be within five miles of us. One hundred and sixty-five
men of the Third, under Major Lawson, and five companies of cavalry, the whole commanded by
Colonel Kennett, left at two o'clock to reconnoiter the front; they will probably go to the
river unless the enemy is met on the way.

A negro came in about four o'clock to report that the enemy's pickets were at his master's
house, five miles from here, at the foot of the other slope of the mountain. He was such an
ignorant fellow that his report was hardly intelligible. We sent him back, telling him to bring
us more definite information. He was a field hand, bare-footed, horny-handed, and very black,
but he knew all about "de mountings; dey can't kotch him nohow. If de sesesh am at Massa Bob's
when I git back, I come to-night an' tell yer all." With these words, this poor proprietor
of a dilapidated pair of pants and shirt, started over the mountains. What are his thoughts
about the war, and its probable effects on his own fortunes, as he trudges along over the hills?
Is it the desire for freedom, or the dislike for his overseer, that prompts him to run five
miles of a Sunday to give this information? Possibly both.

Cæsar said to the Adjutant, "Massa Wilson, may I go to church?" "What do you want to go church
for, Cæsar?" "To hear de Gospel." One day Cæsar said to me, "Co'nel, you belongs to de meetin
don't you?" "Why so, Cæsar?" "Kase I nebber heard you swar any."

To-day one of the pet coons got after a chicken. A young half-naked negro took after the coon;
and a long and crooked chase the chicken, coon, and negro had of it.

12. At five o'clock the members of the court met to say good-by, and drink a dozen bottles
of Scotch ale at General Ammen's expense. This was quite a spree for the General, and quite
his own spree. It was a big thing, equal almost to the battle of "Shealoh." They were pint
bottles, and the General would persist in acting upon the theory that one bottle would fill
all our glasses. Seeing the glasses empty he would call for another bottle, and say to us,
"Gentlemen, I have ordered another bottle." The General evidently drinks, when he imbibes at
all, simply to be social, and a thimble-full would answer his purpose as well as a barrel.

The court called on General Buell; he is cold, smooth-toned, silent, the opposite of Nelson,
who is ardent, loud-mouthed, and violent.

17. Colonel Keifer has just received a telegram informing him that he has been appointed Colonel
of the One Hundred and Tenth Ohio. I regret his departure too much to rejoice over his promotion.
He has been a faithful officer, always prompt and cheerful; much better qualified to command
the regiment than its Colonel.

Watermelons, peaches, nectarines, are abundant. Peaches thrive better in this climate than
apples. I have eaten almost the whole of a watermelon to-day, and am somewhat satiated. The
melon had a cross (+) on the rind. I enquired of the negro who brought it in, what the mark
meant, and he replied, "de patch war owned principally by a good many niggars, sah, an' dey
dewided dem afore day got ripe, an' put de mark on de rine, to show dat de p'tic'lar melon
belonged to a p'tic'lar niggar, sah."

Governor Tod is damaging the old regiments by injudicious promotions. He does in some instances,
it is true, reward faithful soldiers; but often complaining, unwilling, incompetent fellows
are promoted, who get upon the sick list to avoid duty; lay upon their backs when they should
be on their feet, and are carousing when they should be asleep. On the march, instead of pushing
along resolutely at the head of their command, they fall back and get into an ambulance. The
troops have no confidence in them; their presence renders a whole company worthless, and this
company contributes greatly to the demoralization of a regiment.

22. A little vine has crept into my tent and put out a handsome flower.

General Buell and staff, with bag and baggage, left this morning.

25. Ordered to move.

29. We are at Decherd, Tennessee. I am weak, discouraged, and worn out with idleness.

The negroes are busily engaged throwing up earth works and building stockades. To-night, as
they were in line, I stopped a moment to hear the sergeant call the roll, "Scipio McDonald."
"Here I is, sah." "Cæsar--Cæsar McDonald." "Cæsar was 'sleep las' I saw ob him, sah." These
negroes take the family name of their masters.

The whole army is concentrated here, or near here; but nobody knows anything, except that the
water is bad, whisky scarce, dust abundant, and the air loaded with the scent and melody of
a thousand mules. These long-eared creatures give us every variety of sound of which they are
capable, from the deep bass bray to the most attenuated whinny.

The Thirty-third Ohio was shelled out of its fortifications at Battle creek yesterday. Colonel
Moore is in the adjoining tent, giving an account of his trials and tribulations to Shanks
of the New York Herald.

Fifty of the Third, under Lieutenant Carpenter, went to Stevenson yesterday; on their return
they were fired upon by guerrillas. Jack Boston shot a man and captured a horse.

SEPTEMBER, 1862.

4. Army has fallen back to Murfreesboro.

5. At Nashville.

6. To-night we cross the Cumberland.

7. Bivouacked in Edgefield, at the north end of the railroad bridge. Troops pouring over the
bridge and pushing North rapidly. One of Loomis' men was shot dead last night while attempting
to run by a sentinel.

10. The moving army with its immense transportation train, raises such a cloud of dust that
it is impossible to see fifty yards ahead.

11. Arrived at Bowling Green. The two armies are running a race for the Ohio river. At this
time Bragg has the lead.

OCTOBER, 1862.

3. At Taylorsville, Kentucky. Our first day's march out of Louisville was disagreeable beyond
precedent. The boys had been full of whisky for three days, and fell out of the ranks by scores.
The road for sixteen miles was lined with stragglers. The new men bore the march badly. Rain
fell yesterday afternoon and during the night; I awoke at three o'clock this morning to find
myself lying in a puddle of water. A soldier of Captain Rossman's company was wrestling with
another, and being thrown, died almost instantly from the effect of the fall.

4. At Bloomfield. Shelled the rebels out of the woods in which we are now bivouacking, and
picked up a few prisoners. The greater part of the rebel army is, we are told, at Bardstown--twelve
miles away.

5. Still at Bloomfield, in readiness to move at a moment's notice.

7. Moved to Maxville, and bivouacked for the night.

PERRYVILLE.

8. Started in the early morning toward Perryville. The occasional boom of guns at the front
notified us that the enemy was not far distant. A little later the rattle of musketry mingled
with the roar of artillery, and we knew the vanguard was having lively work. The boys marched
well and were in high spirits; the long-looked for battle appeared really near, and that old
notion that the Third was fated never to see a fight seemed now likely to be exploded. At ten
o'clock we were hastened forward and placed in battle line on the left of the Maxville and
Perryville road; the cavalry in our front appeared to be seriously engaged, and every eye peered
eagerly through the woods to catch a glimpse of the enemy. But in a little while the firing
ceased, and with a feeling of disappointment the boys lounged about on the ground and logs
awaiting further orders.

They came very soon. At 11 A. M. the Third was directed to take the head of the column and
move forward. We anticipated no danger, for Rousseau and his staff were in advance of us, followed
by Lytle and his staff. The regiment was marching by the flank, and had proceeded to the brow
of the hill overlooking a branch of the Chaplin river, and was about to descend into the valley,
when the enemy's artillery opened in front with great fury. Rousseau and his staff wheeled
suddenly out of the road to the left, accompanied by Lytle. After a moment spent by them in
consultation, I was ordered to countermarch my regiment to the bottom of the hill we had just
ascended, and file off to the right of the road.

Loomis' and Simonson's Batteries were soon put in position, and began to reply to the enemy.
A furious interchange of shell and solid shot occurred, but after a little while our batteries
ceased firing, and we had comparative silence.

About 2 o'clock the rebel infantry was seen advancing across the valley, and I ordered the
Third to ascend the hill and take position on the crest. The enemy's batteries now reopened
with redoubled fury, and the air seemed filled with shot and exploding shells. Finding the
rebels were still too far away to make our muskets effective, I ordered the boys to lie down
and await their nearer approach. They advanced under cover of a house on the side hill, and
having reached a point one hundred and fifty yards distant, deployed behind a stone fence which
was hidden from us by standing corn. At this time the left of my regiment rested on the Maxville
and Perryville road; the line extending along the crest of the hill, and the right passing
somewhat behind a barn filled with hay. In this position, with the enemy's batteries pouring
upon us a most destructive fire, the Third arose and delivered its first volley. For a time,
I do not know how long thereafter, it seemed as if all hell had broken loose; the air was filled
with hissing balls; shells were exploding continuously, and the noise of the guns was deafening;
finally the barn on the right took fire, and the flames bursting from roof, windows, doors,
and interstices between the logs, threw the right of the regiment into disorder; the confusion,
however, was but temporary. The boys closed up to the left, steadied themselves on the colors,
and stood bravely to the work. Nearly two hundred of my five hundred men now lay dead and wounded
on the little strip of ground over which we fought.

Colonel Curren Pope, of the Fifteenth Kentucky, whose regiment was being held in reserve at
the bottom of the hill, had already twice requested me to retire my men and allow him to take
the position. Finding now that our ammunition was exhausted, I sent him notice, and as his
regiment marched to the crest the Third was withdrawn in as perfect order, I think, as it ever
moved from the drill-ground. The Fifteenth made a gallant fight, and lost heavily both in officers
and men; in fact, the Lieutenant-Colonel and Major fell mortally wounded while it was moving
into position. Colonel Pope was also wounded, but not so seriously as to prevent his continuing
in command. The enemy getting now upon its right and rear, the regiment was compelled to retire
from the crest.

After consultation with Colonel Pope, it was determined to move our regiments to the left,
and form a line perpendicular to the one originally taken, and thus give protection to the
rear and right of the troops on our left. The enemy observing this movement, and accepting
it as an indication of withdrawal, advanced rapidly toward us, when I about faced my regiment,
and ordered the men to fix bayonets and move forward to meet him; but before we had proceeded
many yards, I was overtaken by Lieutenant Grover, of Colonel Lytle's staff, with an order to
retire.

Turning into a ravine a few rods distant, we found an ammunition wagon, and, under a dropping
fire from the enemy, refilled our empty cartridge boxes. Ascertaining while here that Colonel
Lytle was certainly wounded, and probably killed, I reported at once for duty to Colonel Len.
Harris, commanding Ninth Brigade of our division; but night soon thereafter put an end to the
engagement.

We bivouacked in a corn-field. The regiment had grown suddenly small. It was a sorry night
for us indeed. Every company had its long list of killed, wounded, and missing. Over two hundred
were gone. Nearly two hundred, we felt quite sure, had fallen dead or disabled on the field.
Many eyes were in tears, and many hearts were bleeding for lost comrades and dear friends.
General Rousseau rides up in the darkness, and, as we gather around him, says, in a voice tremulous
with emotion: "Boys of the Third, you stood in that withering fire like men of iron." They did.

They are thirsty and hungry. Few, however, think either of food or water. Their thoughts are
on the crest of that little hill, where Cunard, McDougal, St. John, Starr, and scores of others
lie cold in death. They think of the wounded and suffering, and speak to each other of the
terrible ordeal through which they have passed, with bated breath and in solemn tones, as if
a laugh, or jest, or frivolous word, would be an insult to the slain.

They have long sought for a battle, and often been disappointed and sore because they failed
to find one; but now, for the first time, they really realize what a battle is. They see it
is to men what an arctic wind is to autumn leaves, and are astonished to find that any have
outlived the furious storm of deadly missiles.

The enemy is in the woods before us, and as the sentinels occasionally exchange shots, we can
see the flash of their guns and hear the whistle of bullets above our heads. The two armies
are too near to sleep comfortably, or even safely, so the boys cling to their muskets and keep
ready for action. It is a long night, but it finally comes to an end.

9. The enemy has disappeared, and we go to the hill where our fight occurred. Within the compass
of a few rods we find a hundred men of the Third and Fifteenth lying stiff and cold. Beside
these there are many wounded, whom we pick up tenderly, carry off and provide for. Men are
already digging trenches, and in a little while the dead are gathered together for interment.
We have looked upon such scenes before; but then the faces were strange to us. Now they are
the familiar faces of intimate personal friends, to whom we are indebted for many kindly acts.

13. We are in a field near Harrodsburg. Moved yesterday from Perryville. We are without tents.
Rain is falling, and the men uncomfortable.

Many, perhaps most, of the boys of the regiment disliked me thoroughly. They thought me too
strict, too rigid in the enforcement of orders; but now they are, without exception, my fast
friends. During the battle of Chaplin Hills, while the enemy's artillery was playing upon us
with terrible effect, I ordered them to lie down. The shot, shell, and canister came thick
as hail, hissing, exploding, and tearing up the ground around us. There was a universal cry
from the boys that I should lie down also; but I continued to walk up and down the line, watching
the approaching enemy, and replied to their entreaties, "No; it is my time to stand guard now,
and I will not lie down."

Meeting Captain Loomis yesterday, he said: "Do you know you captured a regiment at Chaplin
Hills?" "I do not." "Yes, you captured the Third. You have not a man now who wouldn't die for you."

I have been too much occupied of late to record even the most interesting and important events.
I should like to preserve the names of the private soldiers who behaved like heroes in the
battle; but I have only time to mention the fact that our colors changed hands seven times
during the engagement. Six of our color bearers were either killed or wounded, and as the sixth
man was falling, a soldier of Company C, named David C. Walker, a boyish fellow, whose cheeks
were ruddy as a girl's, and who had lost his hat in the fight, sprang forward, caught the falling
flag, then stepping out in front of the regiment, waved it triumphantly, and carried it to
the end of the battle.

On the next morning I made him color bearer, and undertook to thank him for his gallantry,
but my eyes filled and voice choked, and I was unable to articulate a word. He understood me,
doubtless.

If it had not been for McCook's foolish haste, it is more than probable that Bragg would have
been most thoroughly whipped and utterly routed. As it was, two or three divisions had to contend
for half a day with one of the largest and best disciplined of the Confederate armies, and
that, too, when our troops in force were lying but a few miles in the rear, ready and eager
to be led into the engagement. The whole affair is a mystery to me. McCook is, doubtless, to
blame for being hasty; but may not Buell be censurable for being slow? And may it not be true
that this butchery of men has resulted from the petty jealousies existing between the commanders
of different army corps and divisions?

19. Encamped in a broken, hilly field, five miles south of Crab Orchard. From Perryville to
this place, there has been each day occasional cannonading; but this morning I have heard no
guns. The Cumberland mountains are in sight. We are pushing forward as fast probably as it
is possible for a great army to move. Buell is here superintending the movement.

24. In the woods near Lebanon, and still without tents. Bragg has left Kentucky, and is thought
to be hastening toward Nashville. We shall follow him. Having now twice traveled the road,
the march is likely to prove tedious and uninteresting. The army has been marching almost constantly
for two months, and bivouacking at night with an insufficiency of clothing.

The troops are lying in an immense grove of large beech. We have had supper, and a very good
one, by the way: pickled salmon, currant jelly, fried ham, butter, coffee, and crackers. It
is now long after nightfall, and the forest is aglow with a thousand camp-fires. The hum of
ten thousand voices strikes the ear like the roar of a distant sea. A band away off to the
right is mingling its music with the noise, and a mule now and then breaks in with a voice
not governed by any rules of melody known to man.

NOVEMBER, 1862.

9. In camp at Sinking Spring, Kentucky. Thomas commands the Fourteenth Army Corps, consisting
of Rousseau's, Palmer's, Dumont's, Negley's, and Fry's divisions; say 40,000 men. McCook has
Sill's, Jeff C. Davis', and Granger's; say 24,000. Crittenden has three divisions, say 24,000.
A large army, which ought to sweep to Mobile without difficulty.

Sinking Spring, as it is called by some, Mill Spring by others, and by still others Lost river,
is quite a large stream. It rises from the ground, runs forty rods or more, enters a cave,
and is lost. The wreck of an old mill stands on its banks. Bowling Green is three miles southward.

When we get a little further south, we shall find at this season of the year persimmons and
opossums in abundance. Jack says: "Possum am better dan chicken. In de fall we hunt de possum
ebbery night 'cept Sunday. He am mitey good an' fat, sah; sometimes he too fat."

We move at ten o'clock to-morrow.

11. We have settled down at Mitchellville for a few days. After dinner Furay and I rode six
miles beyond this, on the road to Nashville, to the house of a Union farmer whose acquaintance
I made last spring. The old gentleman was very glad to see us, and insisted upon our remaining
until after supper. In fact, he urged us to stay all night; but we consented to remain for
supper only, and would not allow him to put our horses in the stable.

We learned that a little over a week ago the rebels endeavored to enforce the conscription
law in this neighborhood, and one of Mr. Baily's sons was notified to appear at Gallatin to
enter the Southern army. He was informed that if he did not appear voluntarily at the appointed
time, he would be taken, either dead or alive. He did not go, and since has been constantly
on the watch, expecting the guerrilla bands, which rendezvous at Tyree Springs, ten miles distant,
to come for the purpose of taking him away. When, therefore, he saw Furay and me galloping
up to the house, he mounted his horse and rode for the woods as fast as his steed could carry
him. After we had been there half an hour, he returned, and, while shaking hands with us, said:
"You scared me out of a full year's growth."

Morgan, with a force, the strength of which is variously estimated, passed near this a few
days ago. Many of Mr. Baily's neighbors are members of the guerrilla bands, and all of them
willing spies and informers.

We had a splendid supper: chicken, pork, ham, milk, pumpkin pie; in short, there was every
thing on the table that a hungry man could desire.

I had introduced Mr. Furay as the correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette; but the good folks,
not understanding this long title exactly, dubbed him Doctor. There were three strapping girls
in the family, who did not make their appearance until they had taken time to put on their
Sunday clothes. To one of these the Doctor paid special attention, and finally won his way
so far into her good favor as to induce her to play him a tune on the dulcimer, an abominable
instrument, which she pounded with two little sticks. The Doctor declared that the music was
good--excellent--charming. He now attempts to get out of this outrageous falsehood by affirming
that he referred simply to the air--the tune--and not to the manner in which it was executed
by the young lady. This, however, is a mere quibble.

It was quite dark when we said good-by to this kind-hearted, excellent family, and started
on our way back to camp. The woods were on fire for miles along the road. Many fences and farm
buildings had caught. One large house tumbled in as we were passing, and the fences, out-buildings,
and trees were all enveloped in flames. While riding slowly forward, and looking back upon
the dense cloud of smoke, the flames stretching as far almost as the eye could reach, the dry
trees standing up like immense pillars of fire, we were startled not a little by the sentinel's
challenge, "Halt!" There had been no pickets on the road when we were going out, and we were,
therefore, uncertain whether the challenge came from our own men or those of John Morgan. "Who
comes there?" continued the sentinel. "Friends." "Advance friends, and give the countersign."
Going up to the sentinel, I told him who we were, and that we had not the countersign. After
a little delay, the officer of the guard came and allowed us to proceed.

12. To-day farmer Baily came to see us. I sent his good wife a haversack of coffee, to remunerate
her somewhat for the excellent dinner she had given us. He urged us to come again, and said
they would have a turkey prepared for us this afternoon; but I declined with thanks.

15. At eight o'clock to-morrow morning we shall move to Tyree Springs, a little village situated
in the heart of a wild, broken tract of country, which, of late, has been a favorite rendezvous
for guerrillas and highwaymen. Citizens and soldiers traveling to and from Nashville, during
the last two months, have, at or near this place, been compelled to empty their pockets, and
when their clothes were better than those of their captors, have been compelled to spare them also.

We have no certain information as to the enemy's whereabouts. One rumor says he is at Lavergne,
another locates him at Murfreesboro, and still another puts him at Chattanooga. General Rosecrans
is now in command, and, urged on by the desires of the North, may follow him to the latter
place this winter. A man from whom the people are each day expecting some extraordinary action,
some tremendous battle, in which the enemy shall be annihilated, is unfortunately situated,
and likely very soon to become unpopular. It takes two to make a fight, as it does to make
a bargain. General John Pope is the only warrior of modern times who can find a battle whenever
he wants to, and take any number of prisoners his heart desires. Even his brilliant achievements,
however, afford the people but temporary satisfaction, for, upon investigation, they are unable
to find either the captives or the discomfited hosts.

I predict that in twelve months Rosecrans will be as unpopular as Buell. After the affair at
Rich mountain, the former was a great favorite. When placed in command of the forces in Western
Virginia, the people expected hourly to hear of Floyd's destruction; but after a whole summer
was spent in the vain endeavor to chase down the enemy and bring him to battle, they began
to abuse Rosecrans, and he finally left that department, much as Buell has left this. Our generals
should, undoubtedly, do more, but our people should certainly expect less.

19. At Tyree Springs. Am the presiding officer of a court-martial.

The supplies for the great army at Nashville and beyond, are wagoned over this road from Mitchellville
to Edgefield Junction. Immense trains are passing continually.

20. General Bob Mitchell dined with me to-day. He is on the way to Nashville. Blows his own
trumpet, as of old, and expects that a division will be given him.

30. This is a delightful Indian summer day. I have been in the forest, under the persimmon
and butternut trees. It is the first ramble I have had at this season for years, and I thought
of the many quiet places in the thick woods of the old homestead, where long ago I hunted for
hickory-nuts and walnuts; then of its hazel thickets, through which were scattered the wild
plum, black-haw, and thorn-apple--perfect solitudes, in which the squirrels and birds had the
happiest of times. How pleasant it is to recur to those days; and how well I remember every
path through the dense woods, and every little open grassy plot, made brilliant by the summer
sunshine.

DECEMBER, 1862.

2. We move to-morrow, at six o'clock in the morning, to Nashville.

9. Nashville. Every thing indicates an early movement. Whether a reconnoissance is intended
or a permanent advance, I do not even undertake to guess. The capture of a brigade, at Hartsville,
by John Morgan, has awakened the army into something like life; before it was idly awaiting
the rise of the Cumberland, but this bold dash of the rebels has made it bristle up like an
angry boar; and this morning, I am told, it starts out to show its tusks to the enemy. Our
division has been ordered to be in readiness.

The kind of weather we desire now, is that which is generally considered the most disagreeable,
namely, a long rain; two weeks of rain-fall is necessary to make the Cumberland navigable,
and thus ensure to us abundant supplies.

The whole army feels deeply mortified over the loss of the brigade at Hartsville; report says
it was captured by an inferior force. One of our regiments did not fire a gun, and certainly
the other two could not have made a very obstinate resistance. I am glad Ohio does not have
to bear the whole blame; two-thirds is rather too much.

10. During all of the latter part of last night troops were pouring through Nashville, and
going southward. Our division, Rousseau's, moved three miles beyond the city, and went into
camp on the Franklin road.

14. Our court has been holding its sessions in the city, but to-day it adjourned to meet at
division head-quarters to-morrow at ten o'clock A. M.

The most interesting character of our court-martial is Colonel H. C. Hobart, of the Twenty-first
Wisconsin; a gentleman who has held many important public positions in his own State, and whose
knowledge of the law, fondness for debate, obstinacy in the maintenance of his opinions, love
of fun, and kind-heartedness, are immense. He makes use of the phrase, "in my country," when
he refers to any thing which has taken place in Wisconsin; from this we infer that he is a
foreigner, and pretend to regard him as a savage from the great West. He has, therefore, been
dubbed Chief of the Wisconsins. The court occasionally becomes exceedingly mellow of an evening,
and then the favorite theme is the "injin." Such horrible practices as dog eating and cannibalism
are imputed to the Chief. To-night we visited the theater to witness Ingomar. On returning
to our room at Bassay's restaurant, the members took solemn Irish oaths that the man with the
sheep-skin on his back, purporting to be Ingomar, was no other than Hobart, the Wisconsin savage;
and the supposition that such an individual could ever reform, and become fitted for civilized
society, was a monstrous fiction, too improbable even for the stage.

It should not be presumed from this, however, that the subject of our raillery holds his tongue
all the time. On the contrary, he expresses the liveliest contempt for the opinions of his
colleagues of the court-martial, and professes to think if it were not for the aid which the
Nation receives from his countrymen, the Wisconsins, the effort to restore the Union would
be an utter failure.

Bassay's restaurant is a famous resort for military gentlemen. Major-General Hamilton just
now took dinner; Major-General Lew Wallace, Brigadier-Generals Tyler and Schoepf, and Major
Donn Piatt occupy rooms on the floor above us, and take their meals here; so that we move in
the vicinity of the most illustrious of men. We are hardly prepared now to say that we are
on intimate terms with the gentlemen who bear these historic names; but we are at least allowed
to look at them from a respectful distance. A few years hence, when they are so far away as
to make contradiction improbable, if not impossible, we may claim to have been their boon companions,
and to have drank and played whist with them in the most genial and friendly way.

16. This afternoon Negley sent over a request for help, stating that his forage train had been
attacked. The alarm, however, proved groundless. A few shots only had been fired at the foragers.

17. The news from Fredericksburg has cast a shadow over the army. We did hope that Burnside
would be successful, and thus brighten the prospect for a speedy peace; but we are in deeper
gloom now than ever. The repulse at Fredericksburg, while it has disabled thousands, has disheartened,
if not demoralized a great army, and given confidence and strength to the rebels every-where.
It may be, however, that this defeat was necessary to bring us clearly to the point of extinguishing
slavery in all the States. The time is near when the strength of the President's resolution
in this regard will be put to the test. I trust he will be firm. The mere reconstruction of
the Union on the old basis would not pay humanity for all the blood shed since the war began.
The extinction of slavery, perhaps, will.

While the North raises immense numbers of men, and scatters them to the four winds, the enemy
concentrates, fortifies, and awaits attack. Will the man ever come to consolidate these innumerable
detachments of the National army, and then sweep through the Confederacy like a tornado?

It is said that many regiments in the Eastern army number less than one hundred men, and yet
have a full complement of field and company officers. This is ridiculous; nay, it is an outrage
upon the tax-payers of the North. Worse still, so long as such a skeleton is called a regiment,
it is likely to bring discredit upon the State and Nation; for how can it perform the work
of a regiment when it has but one-tenth of a regiment's strength? These regiments should be
consolidated, and the superfluous officers either sent home or put into the ranks.

20. This morning, at one o'clock, we were ordered to hold ourselves in readiness to march at
a moment's notice, with five days' rations. Court has adjourned to meet at nine o'clock A.
M. Monday. It is disposing of cases quite rapidly, and I think next week, if there be no interruptions,
it will be able to clear the docket.

A brigade, which went out with a forage train yesterday, captured a Confederate lieutenant
at a private house. He was engaged at the moment of his capture in writing a letter to his
sweetheart. The letter was headed Nashville, and he was evidently intent upon deceiving his
lady-love into the belief that he had penetrated the Yankee lines, and was surrounded by foes.
Had the letter reached her fair hands, what earnest prayers would have gone up for the succor
of this bold and reckless youth.

There was a meeting of the generals yesterday, but for what purpose they only know.

21. The dispatches from Indianapolis speak of the probable promotion of Colonel Jones, Forty-second
Indiana. This seems like a joke to those who know him. He can not manage a regiment, and not
even his best friends have any confidence in his military capacity. In Indiana, however, they
promote every body to brigadierships. Sol Meredith, who went into the service long after the
war began, and who, in drilling his regiment, would say: "Battalion, right or left face, as
the case may be, march," was made a brigadier some time ago. Milroy, Crittenden, and many others
were promoted for inconsiderable services in engagements which have long since been forgotten
by the public. Their promotions were not made for the benefit of the service, but for the political
advancement of the men who caused them to be made.

Last evening, a little after dark, we were startled by heavy cannonading on our left, and thought
the enemy was making an attack. The boys in our division were all aglow with excitement, and
cheered loudly; but after ten or fifteen minutes the firing ceased, and I have heard no more
about it.

The rebels are before us in force. The old game of concentration is probably being played.
The repulse of our army at Fredericksburg will embolden them. It will also enable them to spare
troops to reinforce Bragg. The Confederates are on the inside of the circle, while we are on
the outside, scattered far and wide. They can cut across and concentrate rapidly, while we
must move around. They can meet Burnside at Fredericksburg, and then whip across the country
and face us, thus making a smaller army than ours outnumber us in every battle.

In the South the army makes public opinion, and moves along unaffected by it. In the North
the army has little or nothing to do with the creation of public sentiment, and yet is its
servant. The people of the North, who were clamoring for action, are probably responsible for
the fatal repulse at Fredericksburg and the defeat at Bull run. The North must be patient,
and get to understand that the work before us is not one that can be accomplished in a day
or month. It should be pushed deliberately, yet persistently. We should get rid of a vast number
of men who are forever in hospital. They are an expense to the country, and an incumbrance
to the army. We should consolidate regiments, and send home thousands of unnecessary officers,
who draw pay and yet make no adequate return for it.

23. The court met this morning as usual. We are now going on the fifth week of the session.
New cases arise just about as fast as old ones are disposed of.

The boys in front of my tent are singing:

          "We are going home, we are going home,
              To die no more."

Were they to devote as much time to praying as they do to singing, they would soon establish
a reputation for piety; but, unfortunately for them, after the hymn they generally proceed
to swear, instead of prayer, and one is left in doubt as to what home they propose to go to.

25. About noon there were several discharges of artillery in our front, and last night occasional
shots served as cheerful reminders that the enemy was near.

At an expense of one dollar and seventy-five cents, I procured a small turkey and had a Christmas
dinner; but it lacked the collaterals, and was a failure.

For twenty months now I have been a sojourner in camps, a dweller in tents, going hither and
yon, at all hours of the day and night, in all sorts of weather, sleeping for weeks at a stretch
without shelter, and yet I have been strong and healthy. How very thankful I should feel on
this Christmas night! There goes the boom of a cannon at the front.

26. This morning we started south on the Franklin road. When some ten miles away from Nashville,
we turned toward Murfreesboro, and are now encamped in the woods, near the head-waters of the
Little Harpeth. The march was exceedingly unpleasant. Rain began to fall about the time of
starting, and continued to pour down heavily for four hours, wetting us all thoroughly.

I have command of the brigade.

27. We moved at eight o'clock this morning, over a very bad dirt road, from Wilson's pike to
the Nolansville road, where we are now bivouacking. About ten the artillery commenced thundering
in our front, and continued during the greater portion of the day. Marched two miles toward
Triune to support McCook, who was having a little bout with the enemy; but the engagement ending,
we returned to our present quarters in a drenching rain. Saw General Thomas, our corps commander,
going to and returning from the front. We are sixteen miles from Nashville, on a road running
midway between Franklin and Murfreesboro. The enemy is supposed to be in force at the latter place.

28. At four o'clock P. M. we were ordered to leave baggage and teams behind, and march to Stewart's
creek, a point twenty miles from Nashville. Night had set in before the brigade got fairly
under way. The road runs through a barren, hilly, pine district, and was exceedingly bad. At
eleven o'clock at night we reached the place indicated, and lay on the damp ground until morning.

29. At eight o'clock A. M. the artillery opened in our front; but after perhaps two hours of
irregular firing, it ceased altogether, and we were led to the conclusion that but few rebels
were in this vicinity, the main body being at Murfreesboro, probably. Going to the front about
ten o'clock, I met General Hascall. He had had a little fight at Lavergne, the Twenty-sixth
Ohio losing twenty men, and his brigade thirty altogether. He also had a skirmish at this place,
in which he captured a few prisoners. Saw General Thomas riding to the front. Rosecrans is
here, and most of the Army of the Cumberland either here or hereabouts. McCook's corps had
an inconsiderable engagement at Triune on Saturday. Loss small on both sides.

Riding by a farm-house this afternoon, I caught a glimpse of Miss Harris, of Lavergne, at the
window, and stopped to talk with her a minute. The young lady and her mother have experienced
a great deal of trouble recently. They were shelled out of Lavergne three times, two of the
shells passing through her mother's house. She claims to have been shot at once by a soldier
of the One Hundred and Nineteenth Illinois, the ball splintering the window-sill near her head.
Her mother's house has been converted into a hospital, and the clothes of the family taken
for bandages. She is, therefore, more rebellious now than ever. She is getting her rights,
poor girl!

30. A little after daylight the brigade moved, and proceeded to within three miles of Murfreesboro,
where we have been awaiting orders since ten o'clock A. M.

The first boom of artillery was heard at ten o'clock. Since then there has been almost a continuous
roar. McCook's corps is in advance of us, perhaps a mile and a half, and, with divisions from
other corps, has been gradually approaching the enemy all day, driving his skirmishers from
one point to another.

About four o'clock in the afternoon the artillery firing became more vigorous, and, with Colonel
Foreman, of the Fifteenth Kentucky, I rode to the front, and then along our advanced line from
right to left. Our artillery stationed on the higher points was being fired rapidly. The skirmishers
were advancing cautiously, and the contest between the two lines was quite exciting. As I supposed,
our army is feeling its way into position. To-morrow, doubtless, the grand battle will be fought,
when I trust the good Lord will grant us a glorious victory, and one that will make glad the
hearts of all loyal people on New-Year's Day.

I saw Lieutenant-Colonel Given, Eighteenth Ohio. Twelve of his men had been wounded. Met Colonel
Wagner, Fifteenth Indiana. Starkweather's brigade lost its wagon train this forenoon. Jeff
C. Davis, I am told, was wounded this evening. A shell exploded near a group, consisting of
General Rosecrans and staff, killing two horses and wounding two men.

STONE RIVER.

31. At six o'clock in the morning my brigade marches to the front and forms in line of battle.
The roar of musketry and artillery is incessant. At nine o'clock we move into the cedar woods
on the right to support McCook, who is reported to be giving way. General Rousseau points me
to the place he desires me to defend, and enjoins me to "hold it until hell freezes over,"
at the same time telling me that he may be found immediately on the left of my brigade with
Loomis' battery. I take position. An open wood is in my front; but where the line is formed,
and to the right and left, the cedar thicket is so dense as to render it impossible to see
the length of a regiment. The enemy comes up directly, and the fight begins. The roar of the
guns to the right, left, and front of my brigade sounds like the continuous pounding on a thousand
anvils. My men are favorably situated, being concealed by the cedars, while the enemy, advancing
through the open woods, is fully exposed. Early in the action Colonel Foreman, of the Fifteenth
Kentucky, is killed, and his regiment retires in disorder. The Third Ohio, Eighty-eighth, and
Forty-second Indiana, hold the position, and deliver their fire so effectively that the enemy
is finally forced back. I find a Michigan regiment and attach it to my command, and send a
staff officer to General Rousseau to report progress; but before he has time to return, the
enemy makes another and more furious assault upon my line. After a fierce struggle, lasting
from forty to sixty minutes, we succeed in repelling this also. I send again to General Rousseau,
and am soon after informed that neither he nor Loomis' battery can be found. Troops are reported
to be falling back hastily, and in disorder, on my left. I send a staff officer to the right,
and ascertain that Scribner's and Shepperd's brigades are gone. I conclude that the contingency
has arisen to which General Rousseau referred--that is to say, that hell has frozen over--and
about face my brigade and march to the rear, where the guns appear to be hammering away with
redoubled fury. In the edge of the woods, and not far from the Murfreesboro pike, I find the
new line of battle, and take position. Five minutes after the enemy strike us. For a time--I
can not even guess how long--the line stands bravely to the work; but the regiments on our
left get into disorder, and finally become panic-stricken. The fright spreads, and my brigade
sweeps by me to the open field in our rear. I hasten to the colors, stop them, and endeavor
to rally the men. The field is by this time covered with flying troops, and the enemy's fire
is most deadly. My brigade, however, begins to steady itself on the colors, when my horse is
shot under me, and I fall heavily to the ground. Before I have time to recover my feet, my
troops, with thousands of others, sweep in disorder to the rear, and I am left standing alone.
Going back to the railroad, I find my men, General Rousseau, Loomis, and, in fact, the larger
part of the army. The artillery has been concentrated at this point, and now opens upon the
advancing columns of the enemy with fearful effect, and continues its thunders until nightfall.
The artillery saved the army. The battle during the whole day was terrific.

I find that soon after the fight began in the cedars, our division was ordered back to a new
line, and that the order had been delivered to Scribner and Shepperd, but not to me. They had,
consequently, retired to the second position under fire, and had suffered most terribly in
the operation; while my brigade, being forgotten by the division commander, or by the officer
whose duty it was to convey the order, had held its ground until it had twice repulsed the
enemy, and then changed position in comparative safety. A retrograde movement under fire must
necessarily be extremely hazardous. It demoralizes your own men, who can not, at the moment,
understand the purpose of the movement, while it encourages the enemy. The one accepts it as
an indication of defeat; the other as an assurance of victory.

McCook had been surprised and shattered in the morning. This unexpected success had inspired
the rebels and dispirited us. They fought like devils, and the victory--if victory there was
to either army--belonged to them.

When the sun went down, and the firing ceased, the Union army, despondent, but not despairing,
weary and hungry, but still hopeful, lay on its arms, ready to renew the conflict on the morrow.

JANUARY, 1863.

1. At dawn we are all in line, expecting every moment the re-commencement of the fearful struggle.
Occasionally a battery engages a battery opposite, and the skirmishers keep up a continual
roar of small arms; but until nearly night there is no heavy fighting. Both armies want rest;
both have suffered terribly. Here and there little parties are engaged burying the dead, which
lie thick around us. Now the mangled remains of a poor boy of the Third is being deposited
in a shallow grave. A whole charge of canister seems to have gone through him. Generals Rosecrans
and Thomas are riding over the field, now halting to speak words of encouragement to the troops,
then going on to inspect portions of the line. I have been supplied with a new horse, but one
far inferior to the dead stallion. A little before sun-down all hell seems to break loose again,
and for about an hour the thunder of the artillery and volleys of musketry are deafening; but
it is simply the evening salutation of the combatants. The darkness deepens; the weather is
raw and disagreeable. Fifty thousand hungry men are stretched beside their guns again on the
field. Fortunately I have a piece of raw pork and a few crackers in my pocket. No food ever
tasted sweeter. The night is gloomy enough; but our spirits are rising. We all glory in the
obstinacy with which Rosecrans has clung to his position. I draw closer to the camp-fire, and,
pushing the brands together, take out my little Bible, and as I open it my eyes fall on the
xci Psalm:

"I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God; in Him will I trust.

Camp-fires innumerable are glimmering in the darkness. Now and then a few mounted men gallop
by. Scattering shots are heard along the picket line. The gloom has lifted, and I wrap myself
in my blanket and lie down contentedly for the night.

2. At sunrise we have a shower of solid shot and shell. The Chicago Board of Trade battery
is silenced. The shot roll up the Murfreesboro pike like balls on a bowling alley. Many horses
are killed. A soldier near me, while walking deliberately to the rear, to seek a place of greater
safety, is struck between the shoulders by a ricochetting ball, and instantly killed. We are
ordered to be in readiness to repel an attack, and form line of battle amid this fearful storm
of iron. Gaunther and Loomis get their batteries in position, and, after twenty or thirty minutes'
active work, silence the enemy and compel him to withdraw. Then we have a lull until one or
two o'clock, when Van Cleve's division on the left is attacked. As the volume of musketry increases,
and the sound grows nearer, we understand that our troops are being driven back, and brigade
after brigade double quicks from the right and center, across the open field, to render aid.
Battery after battery goes in the same direction on the run, the drivers lashing the horses
to their utmost speed. The thunder of the guns becomes more violent; the volleys of musketry
grow into one prolonged and unceasing roll. Now we hear the yell which betokens encouraged
hearts; but whose yell? Thank God, it is ours! The conflict is working southward; the enemy
has been checked, repulsed, and is now in retreat. So ends another day.

The hungry soldiers cut steaks from the slain horses, and, with the scanty supplies which have
come forward, gather around the fires to prepare supper, and talk over the incidents of the
day. The prospect seems brighter. We have held the ground, and in this last encounter have
whipped the enemy. There is more cheerful conversation among the men. They discuss the battle,
the officers, and each other, and give us now and then a snatch of song. Officers come over
from adjoining brigades, hoping to find a little whisky, but learn, with apparent resignation
and well-feigned composure, that the canteens have been long empty; that even the private flasks,
which officers carry with the photographs of their sweethearts, in a side pocket next to their
hearts, are destitute of even the flavor of this article of prime necessity. My much-esteemed
colleague of the court-martial, Colonel Hobart, stumbles up in the thick darkness to pay his
respects. The sentinel, mistaking him for a private, tells him, with an oath, that this is
neither the time nor place for stragglers, and orders him back to his regiment; and so the
night wears on, and fifty thousand men lay upon their guns again.

3. Colonel Shanklin, with a strong detachment from my brigade, was captured last night while
on picket. Rifle pits are being dug, and I am ordered to protect the workmen. The rebels hold
a strip of woods in our immediate front, and we get up a lively skirmish with them. Our men,
however, appear loth to advance far enough to afford the necessary protection to the workers.
Vexed at their unwillingness to venture out, I ride forward and start over a line to which
I desire the skirmishers to advance, and discover, before I have gone twenty yards, that I
have done a foolish thing. A hundred muskets open on me from the woods; but the eyes of my
own brigade and of other troops are on me, and I can not back out. I quicken the pace of my
horse somewhat, and continue my perilous course. The bullets whistle like bees about my head,
but I ride the whole length of the proposed skirmish line, and get back to the brigade in safety.
Colonel Humphrey, of the Eighty-eighth Indiana, comes up to me, and with a tremor in his voice,
which indicates much feeling, says: "My God, Colonel, never do that again!" The caution is
unnecessary. I had already made up my mind never to do it again. We keep up a vigorous skirmish
with the enemy for hours, losing now and then a man; but later in the day we are relieved from
this duty, and retire to a quieter place.

About nightfall General Rousseau desires me to get two regiments in readiness, and, as soon
as it becomes quite dark, charge upon and clean out the woods in our front. I select the Third
Ohio and Eighty-eighth Indiana for this duty, and at the appointed time we form line in the
open field in front of Gaunther's battery, and as we start, the battery commences to shell
the woods. As we get nearer the objective point, I put the men on the double quick. The rebels,
discovering our approach, open a heavy fire, but in the darkness shoot too high. The blaze
of their guns reveals their exact position to us. We reach the rude log breastworks behind
which they are standing and grapple with them. Colonel Humphrey receives a severe thrust from
a bayonet; others are wounded, and some killed. It is pitch dark under the trees. Some of Gaunther's
shells fall short, and alarm the men. Unable to find either staff officer or orderly, I ride
back and request him to elevate his guns. Returning, I find my troops blazing away with great
energy; but, so far as I can discover, their fire is not returned. It is difficult, however,
in the noise, confusion, and darkness, to direct their movements, and impossible to stop the
firing. In the meantime a new danger threatens. Spear's Tennesseeans have been sent to support
us, probably without any definite instructions. They are, most of them, raw troops, and, becoming
either excited or alarmed at the terrible racket in the woods, deliver scattering shots in
our rear. I ride back and urge them either to cease firing or move to the left, go forward
and look after our flank. One regiment does move as directed; but the others are immovable,
and it is with great difficulty that I succeed in making them understand that in firing they
are more likely to injure friends than foes. Fortunately, soon after this, the ammunition of
the Third and Eighty-eighth becoming exhausted, the firing in the woods ceases, and, as the
enemy has already abandoned the field, the affair ends. I try to find General Rousseau to report
results, but can not; and so, worn out with fatigue and excitement, lie down for another night.

4. Every thing quiet in our front. It is reported that the enemy has disappeared. Investigation
confirms the report, and the cavalry push into Murfreesboro and beyond.

During the forenoon the army crosses Stone River, and with music, banners, and rejoicings,
takes possession of the old camps of the enemy. So the long and doubtful struggle ends.

5. I ride over the battle-field. In one place a caisson and five horses are lying, the latter
killed in harness, and all fallen together. Nationals and Confederates, young, middle-aged,
and old, are scattered over the woods and fields for miles. Poor Wright, of my old company,
lay at the barricade in the woods which we stormed on the night of the last day. Many others
lay about him. Further on we find men with their legs shot off; one with brains scooped out
with a cannon ball; another with half a face gone; another with entrails protruding; young
Winnegard, of the Third, has one foot off and both legs pierced by grape at the thighs; another
boy lies with his hands clasped above his head, indicating that his last words were a prayer.
Many Confederate sharpshooters lay behind stumps, rails, and logs, shot in the head. A young
boy, dressed in the Confederate uniform, lies with his face turned to the sky, and looks as
if he might be sleeping. Poor boy! what thoughts of home, mother, death, and eternity, commingled
in his brain as the life-blood ebbed away! Many wounded horses are limping over the field.
One mule, I heard of, had a leg blown off on the first day's battle; next morning it was on
the spot where first wounded; at night it was still standing there, not having moved an inch
all day, patiently suffering, it knew not why nor for what. How many poor men moaned through
the cold nights in the thick woods, where the first day's battle occurred, calling in vain
to man for help, and finally making their last solemn petition to God!

In the evening I met Rousseau, McCook, and Crittenden. They had been imbibing freely. Rousseau
insisted upon my turning back and going with them to his quarters. Crittenden was the merriest
of the party. On the way he sang, in a voice far from melodious, a pastorial ditty with which
childhood is familiar:

          "Mary had a little lamb,
             His fleece was white as snow,
           And every-where that Mary went
             The lamb was sure to go."

Evidently the lion had left the chieftain's heart, and the lamb had entered and taken possession.

McCook complimented me by saying that my brigade fought well. He should know, for he sat behind
it at the commencement of the second assault of the enemy in the cedars, on the first day;
but very soon thereafter disappeared. Just when he left, and why he did so, I do not know.

At Rousseau's we found a large number of staff and line officers. The demijohn was introduced,
and all paid their respects to it. The ludicrous incidents, of which there are more or less
even in battles, of the last five days, were referred to, and much merriment prevailed.

6. The army is being reorganized, and we are busily engaged repairing the damages sustained
in the battle.

Visited the hospitals, and, so far as possible, looked after the wounded of my brigade. To-morrow
the chaplains will endeavor to hunt them all up, and report their whereabouts and condition.

7. I was called upon late in the evening to make a report of the operations of my brigade immediately,
as General Rousseau intends to leave for Louisville in the morning. It is impossible to collect
the information necessary in the short time allowed me. One of my regimental commanders, Colonel
Foreman, was killed; another, Colonel Humphrey, was wounded, and is in hospital; another, Lieutenant-Colonel
Shanklin, was captured, and is absent; but I gathered up hastily what facts I could obtain
as to the casualties in the several regiments, and wrote my report in the few minutes which
remained for me to do so, and sent it in. I have not had an opportunity to do justice either
to my brigade or myself.

13. Move in the direction of Columbia, on a reconnoitering expedition. My brigade stops at
Salem, and the cavalry pushes on.

14. Have been exposed to a drenching rain for thirty hours. The men are cold, hungry, and mutinous.

15. Ordered back to Murfreesboro, and march thither in a storm of snow and sleet. It is decidedly
the coldest day we have experienced since last winter.

I find two numbers of Harper's Weekly on my return. They abound in war stories. The two heroes,
of whom I read to-night, received saber cuts on the face and head, obtained leave of absence,
returned home, and married forthwith. Saber cuts are very rare in the Army of the Cumberland,
and if young officers were compelled to defer entering into wedlock until they got wounds of
this kind, there would be precious few soldiers married. Bullet wounds are common enough; but
the hand-to-hand encounters, knightly contests of swords, the cleaving of head-pieces and shattering
of spears, are not incidents of modern warfare.

The long rain has completely saturated the ground. The floor of my tent is muddy; but my bed
will be dry, and as I have not had my clothes off for three days, I look forward to a comfortable
night's rest.

The picture in Harper, of "Christmas Eve," will bring tears to the eyes of many a poor fellow
shivering over the camp-fire in this winter season. The children in the crib, the stockings
in which Santa Claus deposits his treasures, recall the pleasantest night of the year.

Speaking of Christmas reminds me of the mistletoe bough. Mistletoe abounds here. Old, leafless
trees are covered and green with it. It was in blossom a week or two ago, if we may call its
white wax-like berries blossoms. They are known as Christmas blossoms. The vine takes root
in the bark--in any crack, hole, or crevice of the tree--and continues green all winter. The
berries grow in clusters.

16. I have as guests Mr. and Mrs. Johnson House, my old neighbors. They have come from their
quiet home in Ohio to look over a battle-field, and I take pleasure in showing them the points
of interest. Mr. House, with great frankness, tells me, in the presence of my staff, that he
had been afraid I was not qualified for the high position I hold, and that I was getting along
too fast; but he now feels satisfied that I am capable and worthy, and would be well pleased
to see me again promoted. I introduced my friends to Lieutenant Van Pelt, of Loomis' battery,
and Mr. House asked: "Lieutenant, will these guns shoot with any kind of decision?" "Precision,"
I suggested. "Yes," Van Pelt replied, "they will throw a ball pretty close to the mark."

17. Dr. Peck tells me that the wounded of the Third are doing well, and all comfortably quartered.
He is an excellent physician and surgeon, and the boys are well pleased with him.

FEBRUARY, 1863.

3. This has been the coldest day of the season in this latitude. The ground is frozen hard.
I made the round of the picket line after dinner, and was thoroughly chilled. Visited the hospital
this evening. Young Willets, of the Third, whom I thought getting along well before I left
for home, died two days before my return. Benedict is dead, and Glenn, poor fellow, will go
next. His leg is in a sling, and he is compelled to lie in one position all the time. Mortification
has set in, and he can not last more than a day or two. Murfreesboro is one great hospital,
filled with Nationals and Confederates.

4. At noon cannonading began on our left and front, and continued with intervals until sunset.
I have heard no explanation of the firing, but think it probable our troops started up the
Shelbyville road to reconnoiter, discovered the enemy, and a small fight ensued.

5. It is said the enemy came within six miles of Murfreesboro yesterday, and attacked a forage
train.

The weather has been somewhat undecided, and far from agreeable.

6. A lot of rebel papers, dated January 31st, have been brought in. They contain many extracts
clipped from the Northern Democratic press, and the Southern soul is jubilant over the fact
that a large party in Ohio and Indiana denounce President Lincoln. The rebels infer from this
that the war must end soon, and the independence of the Southern States be acknowledged. Our
friends at home should not give aid and comfort to the enemy. They may excite hopes which,
in time, they will themselves be compelled to help crush.

7. Few of the men who started home when I did have returned. The General is becoming excited
on the subject of absentees. From General Thomas' corps alone there are sixteen thousand men
absent, sick, pretending to be sick, or otherwise. Of my brigade there are sixteen hundred
men present for duty, and over thirteen hundred absent--nearly one-half away. The condition
of other brigades is similar. If a man once gets away, either into hospital or on detached
duty, it is almost impossible to get him back again to his regiment. A false excuse, backed
up by the false statement of a family physician, has hitherto been accepted; but hereafter,
I am told, it will not be. Uncle Sam can not much longer stand the drain upon his finances
which these malingerers occasion, and his reputation suffers also, for he can not do with fifty
thousand men what it requires one hundred thousand to accomplish.

People may say Rosecrans had at the battle of Murfreesboro nearly one hundred regiments. A
regiment should contain a thousand men; in a hundred regiments, therefore, there should have
been one hundred thousand men. With this force he should have swallowed Bragg; but they must
understand that the largest of these regiments did not contain over five hundred men fit for
duty, and very many not over three hundred. The men in hospital, the skulkers at home, and
the skedaddlers here, count only on the muster and pay-rolls; our friends at home should remember,
therefore, that when they take a soldier by the hand who should be with his regiment, and say
to him, "Poor fellow, you have seen hard times enough, stay a little longer, the army will
not miss you," that some other poor fellow, too brave and manly to shirk, shivers through the
long winter hours at his own post, and then through other long hours at the post of the absentee,
thus doing double duty; and they should bear in mind, also, that in battle this same poor fellow
has to fight for two, and that battles are lost, the war prolonged, and the National arms often
disgraced, by reason of the absence of the men whom they encourage to remain at home a day
or two longer. If every Northern soldier able to do duty would do it, Rosecrans could sweep
to Mobile in ninety days; but with this skeleton of an army, we rest in doubt and idleness.
There is a screw loose somewhere.

10. Fortifications are being constructed. My men are working on them.

Just now I heard the whistle of a locomotive, on the opposite side of the river. This is the
first intimation we have had of the completion of the road to this point. The bridge will be
finished in a day or two, and then the trains will arrive and depart from Murfreesboro regularly.

11. Called at Colonel Wilder's quarters, and while there met General J. J. Reynolds. He made
a brief allusion to the Stalnaker times. On my return to camp, I stopped for a few minutes
at Department head-quarters to see Garfield. General Rosecrans came into the room; but, as
I was dressed in citizens' clothes, did not at first recognize me. Garfield said: "General
Rosecrans, Colonel Beatty." The General took me by the hand, turned my face to the light, and
said he did not have a fair view of me before. "Well," he continued, "you are a general now,
are you?" I told him I was not sure yet, and he said: "Is it uncertainty or modesty that makes
you doubt?" "Uncertainty." "Well," he replied, "you and Sam Beatty have both been recommended.
I guess it will be all right." He invited me to remain for supper, but I declined.

16. To-day I rode over the battle-field, starting at the river and following the enemy's line
off to their left, then crossing over on to the right of our line, and following it to the
left. For miles through the woods evidences of the terrible conflict meet one at every step.
Trees peppered with bullet and buckshot, and now and then one cut down by cannon ball; unexploded
shell, solid shot, dead horses, broken caissons, haversacks, old shoes, hats, fragments of
muskets, and unused cartridges, are to be seen every-where. In an open space in the oak woods
is a long strip of fresh earth, in which forty-one sticks are standing, with intervals between
them of perhaps a foot. Here forty-one poor fellows lie under the fresh earth, with nothing
but the forty-one little sticks above to mark the spot. Just beyond this are twenty-five sticks,
to indicate the last resting-place of twenty-five brave men; and so we found these graves in
the woods, meadows, corn-fields, cotton-fields, every-where. We stumbled on one grave in a
solitary spot in the thick cedars, where the sunshine never penetrates. At the head of the
little mound of fresh earth a round stick was standing, and on the top of this was an old felt
hat; the hat still doing duty over the head, if not on the head, of the dead soldier who lay
there. The rain and sun and growing vegetation of one summer will render it impossible to find
these graves.

17. The army is turning its attention to politics somewhat. Generals and colonels are ventilating
their opinions through the press. I think their letters may have good effect upon the people
at home, and prevent them from discouraging the army and crippling the Administration. Surely
the effort now being put forth by a great party in the North to convince the troops in the
field that this is an unjust war, an abolition or nigger war, must have a tendency to injure
the army, and, if persisted in, may finally ruin it.

19. Work on the fortifications still continues. This is to be a depot of supplies, and there
are provisions enough already here to subsist the army for a month. Now that the Cumberland
is high, and the railroads in running order, any amount of supplies may be brought through.

Expeditions go out occasionally to different parts of the country, and slight affairs occur,
which are magnified into serious engagements; but really nothing of any importance has transpired
since we obtained possession of Murfreesboro. A day or two ago we had an account of an expedition
into the enemy's country by the One Hundred and Twenty-third Illinois, Colonel Monroe commanding.
According to this veracious report, the Colonel had a severe fight, killed a large number of
the enemy, and captured three hundred stand of arms; but the truth is, that he did not take
time to count the rebel dead, and the arms taken were one hundred old muskets found in a house
by the roadside.

The expeditions sent out to capture John Morgan have all been failures. His own knowledge of
the country is thorough, and besides, he has in his command men from every neighborhood, who
know not only every road and cow-path in the locality, but every man, woman, and child. The
people serve him also, by advising him of all our movements. They guide him to our detachments
when they are weak, and warn him away from them when strong. Were the rebel army in Ohio, and
as bitterly hated by the people of that State as the Nationals are by those of Kentucky and
Tennessee, it would be an easy matter indeed to hang upon the skirts of that army, pick up
stragglers, burn bridges, attack wagon trains, and now and then pounce down on an outlying
picket and take it in.

20. Colonel Lytle, my old brigade commander, called on me to-day. He informed me that he had
not been assigned yet. I inferred from this that he thought it utterly impossible for one so
distinguished as himself to come down to a regiment. His own regiment, the Tenth Ohio, is here,
and nominally a part of my brigade, although it has not acted with it since Rosecrans assumed
command of the Army of the Cumberland. Under Lieutenant-Colonel Burke, it is doing guard duty
at Department head-quarters.

MARCH, 1863.

1. There is talk of consolidation at Washington. This is a sensible idea, and should be carried
into effect at once. There are too many officers and too few men. The regiments should be consolidated,
and kept full by conscription, if it can not be done otherwise. The best officers should be
retained, and the others sent home to stand their chances of the draft.

A major of the Fifteenth Kentucky sent in his resignation a few days ago, assigning as a reason
for so doing that the object of the war was now the elevation of the negro. The concluding
paragraph of his letter was in these words: "The service can not possibly suffer by my resignation."
The document passed through my hands on its way to Department head-quarters, and I indorsed
it as follows:

"Major H. F. Kalfus, Fifteenth Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, being 'painfully and reluctantly
convinced' that the party in power is disposed to elevate the negro, desires to quit the service.
I trust he will be allowed to do so, and cheerfully certify to the correctness of one statement
which he makes herein, to-wit: The service can not possibly suffer by his resignation."

General Rosecrans has just sent me an order to arrest the Major, and send him under guard to
the Provost-Marshal General. The arrest will be made in a few minutes, and may create some
excitement among our Kentucky friends.

3. The fortifications are progressing. The men work four hours each day in the trenches. The
remainder of the time they spend pretty much as they see fit.

General Garfield is now chief of staff. It is the first instance in the West of an officer
of his rank being assigned to that position. It is an important place, however, and one too
often held not merely by officers of inferior rank, but of decidedly inferior ability. General
Buell had a colonel as chief of staff, and, until the appointment of Garfield, General Rosecrans
had a lieutenant-colonel or major.

To-night an ugly and most singular specimen of the negro called to obtain employment. He was
not over three feet and a half high, hump-backed, crooked-legged, and quite forty years old.
Poking his head into my tent, and, taking off his hat, he said: "Is de Co'nel in?" "Yes." "Hurd
you wants a boy, sah. Man tole me Co'nel Eighty-eighth Olehio wants a boy, sah." "What can
you do? Can you cook?" "Yas, sah." "Where did you learn to cook?" "On de plantation, sah."
"What is your master's name?" "Rucker, sah." "Is he a loyal man?" "No, sah, he not a lawyer;
his brudder, de cussen one, is de lawyer." "Is he secesh?" "O, yas, sah; yas, he sesesh." "It
is the Colonel of the Eighty-eighth Indiana you should see;" and I directed him to the Colonel's
tent. As he turned to leave, he muttered, "Man tole me Eighty-eighth Olehio;" but he went hobbling
over to the Eighty-eighth, with fear, anxiety, and hope struggling in his old face.

4. Major Kalfus, Fifteenth Kentucky, arrested on Sunday, and since held in close confinement,
was dishonorably dismissed from the service to-day for using treasonable language in tendering
his resignation. He was escorted outside the lines and turned loose. The Major is a cross-roads
politician, and will, I doubt not, be a lion among his half-loyal neighbors when he returns home.

5. Our picket on the Manchester pike was driven in to-day. The cavalry, under General Stanley,
went to the rescue, when a fight occurred. No particulars.

9. T. Buchanan Reid, the poet, entertained us at the court-house this evening. The room had
been trimmed up by the rebels for a ball. The words, "Shiloh," "Fort Donelson," "Hartsville,"
"Santa Rosa," "Pensacola," were surrounded with evergreens. The letter "B," painted on the
walls in a dozen places, was encompassed by wreaths of flowers, now faded and yellow. My native
modesty led me to conclude that the letter so highly honored stood for Bragg, and not for the
commander of the Seventeenth Brigade, U. S. A.

General Garfield introduced Mr. Reid by a short speech, not delivered in his usual happy style.
I was impressed with the idea all the time, that he had too many buttons on his coat--he certainly
had a great many buttons--and the splendor of the double row possibly detracted somewhat from
the splendor of his remarks.

Mr. Reid is a small man, and has not sufficient voice to make himself heard distinctly in so
large a hall. In a parlor his recitations would be capital. He read from his own poem, "The
Wagoner," a description of the battle of Brandywine. It is possibly a very good representation
of that battle; but, if so, the battle of Brandywine was very unlike that of Stone river. At
Brandywine, it appears, the generals slashed around among the enemy's infantry with drawn swords,
doing most of the hard fighting and most of the killing themselves. I did not discover anything
of that kind at Stone river. It is possible the style went out of fashion before the rebellion
began. It would, however, be very satisfactory to the rank and file to see it restored. Mr.
Reid said some good things in his lecture, and was well applauded; but, in the main, he was
too ethereal, vapory, and fanciful for the most of us leather-heads. When he puts a soldier-boy
on the top of a high mountain to sing patriotic songs, and bid defiance to King George because
"Eagle is King," we are impressed with the idea that that soldier could have been put to better
use; that, in fact, he is entirely out of the line of duty. The position assigned him is unnatural,
and the modern soldier-boy will be apt to conclude that nobody but a simpleton would be likely
to wander about in solitary places, extemporizing in measured sentences; besides it is hard
work, as I know from experience. I tried my hand at it the other day until my head ached, and
this is the best I could do:

            O! Lord, when will this war end?
          These days of marchings, nights of lonely guard?
          This terrible expenditure of health and life?
          Where is the glory? Where is the reward,
          For sacrifice of comfort, quiet, peace?
          For sacrifice of children, wife, and friends?
          For sacrifice of firesides--genial homes?
          What hour, what gift, will ever make amends
          For broken health, for bruised flesh and bones,
          For lives cut short by bullet, blade, disease?
          Where balm to heal the widow's heart, or what
          Shall soothe a mother's grief for woes like these?
            Hold, murmurer, hold! Is country naught to thee?
          Is freedom nothing? Naught an honored name?
          What though the days be cold, or the nights dark,
          The brave heart kindles for itself a flame
          That warms and lightens up the world!
          Home! What's home, if in craven shame
          We seek its hearthstone? Bitterest of cold.
          Better creep thither bruised, and torn, and lame,
          Than seek it in health when justice needs our aid.
            Where is the glory? Where is the reward?
          Think of the generations that will come
          To praise and bless the hero. Think of God,
          Who in due time will call His soldiers home.
          How comfort mother for the loss of son?
          What balm to which her heaviest grief must yield?
          Ah! the plain, simple, ever-glorious words:
          "Your son died nobly on the battle-field!"
          What balm to soothe a widow's aching heart?
          The grand assurance that in the battle shock
          Foremost her husband stood, defying all,
          For freedom and truth, unyielding as the rock.
          Then, courage, all, and when the strife is past,
          And grief for lost ones takes a milder hue,
          This thought shall crown the living and the dead:
          "He lived, he died, to God and duty true."

10. Rain has been descending most of the day, and just now is pouring down with great violence.
A happy party in the adjoining tent are exercising their lungs on a negro melody, of which
this is something like the chorus:

          "De massa run, ha, ha!
           De nigger stay, ho, ho!
           It mus' be now de kingdom comin',
           And de year of jubelo."

I can not affirm that the music with which these gentlemen so abound, on this rainy and dismal
night, has that soothing effect on the human heart ascribed to music in general; but, however
little I may feel like rejoicing now, I am quite sure I shall feel happier when the concert
ends. The singers have concluded the negro melody, and are breathing out their souls in a sentimental
piece. Now and then, when more than ordinarily successful in the higher strains, they nearly
equal the most exalted efforts of the tom-cat; and then, again, in the execution of the lower
notes and more pathetic passages, we are brought nigh unto tears by an inimitable imitation
of the wailings of a very young and sick kitten.

          "Do they miss me at home; do they miss me?"

I venture to say they do, and with much gratification if, when there, you favored them often
with this infernal noise.

14. The weather is remarkably fine to-day. I saw Mrs. and Major-General McCook and Mrs. and
Major-General Wood going out to the battle-field, on horseback, this morning. Mrs. General
Rosecrans arrived last night on a special train.

16. The roads are becoming good, and every body is on horseback. Many officers have their wives
here. On the way to Murfreesboro this morning, I met two ladies with an escort going to the
battle-field. Returning I met General Rosecrans and wife. The General hallooed after me, "How
d'ye do?" to which I shouted back, at the top of my voice, the very original reply, "Very well,
thank you." From the number of ladies gathering in, one might very reasonably conclude that
no advance was contemplated soon. Still all signs fail in war times, as they do in dry weather.
As a rule, perhaps, when a movement appears most improbable, we should be on the lookout for
orders to start.

The army, under Rosecrans' administration, looks better than it ever did before. He certainly
enters into his work with his whole soul, and unless some unlucky mishap knocks his feet from
under him, he will soon be recognized as the first general of the Union. I account for his
success thus far, in part at least, by the fact that he has been long enough away from West
Point, mixing with the people, to get a little common sense rubbed into him.

While writing the last word above, the string band of the Third struck up at the door of my
tent. Going out, I found all the commissioned officers of that regiment standing in line. Adjutant
Wilson nudged me, and said they expected a speech. I asked if beer would not suit them better.
He thought not. I have not attempted to make a speech for two years, and never made a successful
attempt in my life; but I knocked the ashes out of my pipe and began:

"GENTLEMEN: I am informed that all the officers of the Third are here. I am certainly very
glad to see you, and extremely sorry that I am not better prepared to receive and entertain
you. The press informs us that I have been very highly honored. If the report that I have been
promoted is true, I am indebted to your gallantry, and that of the brave men of the Third,
for the honor. You gave me my first position, and then were kind enough to deem me worthy of
a second; and if now I have obtained a third, and higher one, it is because I have had the
good fortune to command good soldiers. The step upward in rank will simply increase my debt
of gratitude to you."

The officers responded cordially, by assuring me that they rejoiced over my promotion, and
were anxious that I should continue in command of the brigade to which the Third is attached.

Charlie Davison can sing as many songs as Mickey Free, of "Charles O'Malley," and sing them
well. In Irish melodies he is especially happy. Hark!

          "Dear Erin, how sweetly thy green bosom rises,
             An emerald set in the ring of the sea;
           Each blade of thy meadows my faithful heart prizes,
             Thou Queen of the West, the world's cush la machree.

       *       *       *       *       *

          Thy sons they are brave; but the battle once over,
            In brotherly peace with their foes they agree,
          And the roseate cheeks of thy daughters discover,
            The soul-speaking blush that says cush la machree."

17. Dined with General Wagner, and, in company with Wagner and General Palmer, witnessed an
artillery review.

18. My brigade is still at work on the fortifications. They are, however, nearly completed.

Shelter tents were issued to our division to-day. We are still using the larger tent; but it
is evidently the intention to leave these behind when we move. Last fall the shelter tents
were used for a time by the Pioneer Brigade. They are so small that a man can not stand up
in them. The boys were then very bitter in condemnation of them, and called them dog tents
and dog pens. Almost every one of these tents was marked in a way to indicate the unfavorable
opinion which the boys entertained of them, and in riding through the company quarters of the
Pioneer Brigade, the eye would fall on inscriptions of this sort:

          PUPS FOR SALE--RAT TERRIERS--BULL PUPS
          HERE--DOG-HOLE NO. 1--SONS OF BITCHES
          WITHIN--DOGS--PURPS.

General Rosecrans and staff, while riding by one day, were greeted with a tremendous bow-wow.
The boys were on their hands and knees, stretching their heads out of the ends of the tents,
barking furiously at the passing cavalcade. The General laughed heartily, and promised them
better accommodations.

The news from Vicksburg is somewhat encouraging, but certainly very indefinite, and far from
satisfactory.

19. Reviews are the order of the hour. All the brigades of our division, except mine, were
reviewed by General Rosecrans this afternoon. It was a fine display, but hard on the soldiers;
they were kept so long standing.

At Middletown, sixteen miles away, the rebels are four thousand strong, and within a day or
two they have ventured to Salem, five miles distant.

20. Loomis, who has just returned from home, called this evening, and we drank a bottle of
wine over the promotion. He is in trouble about his commission as colonel of artillery. Two
months ago the Governor of Michigan gave him the commission, and since that time he has been
wearing a colonel's uniform; but General Rosecrans has expressed doubts about his right to
assume the rank. Loomis is all right, doubtless, and to-morrow, when the matter is talked over
between the General and himself, it will be settled satisfactorily.

21. I have been running over Russell's diary, "North and South," and must say the Yankee Nation,
when looked at through Mr. Russell's spectacles, does not appear enveloped in that star-spangled
glory and super-celestial blue with which it is wont to loom up before patriotic eyes on Fourth
of July occasions. He has treated us, however, fully as well as we have treated him. We became
angry because he told unpleasant truths about us, and he became enraged because we abused him
for it. He thanks God that he is not an American; and should not we, in a spirit of conciliation,
meet him half way, and feel thankful that he is not?

Flaming dispatches will appear in the Northern papers to-morrow respecting the defeat of John
Morgan, by a small brigade of our troops under Colonel Hall. The report will say that forty
of the enemy were killed, one hundred and fifty wounded, and one hundred and twenty captured;
loss on our side inconsiderable. The reporters have probably contributed largely to the brilliancy
of this affair. It is always safe to accept with distrust all reports which affirm that a few
men, with little loss, routed, slaughtered, or captured a large force.

Peach and cherry trees are in full bloom. The grass is beginning to creep out. Summer birds
occasionally sing around us. In a few weeks more the trees will be in full leaf again.

23. General Negley, who went home some time ago, returned to-day, and, I see, wears two stars.

General Brannan arrived a day or two ago. He was on the train captured by guerrillas, but was
rescued a few minutes after.

The boys have a rumor that Bragg is near, and has sent General Rosecrans a very polite note
requesting him to surrender Murfreesboro at once. If the latter refuses to accept this most
gentlemanly invitation to deliver up all his forces, Bragg proposes to commence an assault
upon our works at twelve M., and show us no mercy. This, of course, is reliable.

At sunset rain began to fall, and has continued to pour down steadily ever since. The night
is gloomy. Adjutant Wilson, in the next tent, is endeavoring to lift himself from the slough
of despond by humming a ditty of true love; but the effort is evidently a failure.

This morning I stood on the bank of the river and observed the pontoniers as they threw their
bridge of boats across the stream. Twice each week they unload the pontoons from the wagons,
run them into the water, put the scantling from boat to boat, lay down the plank, and thus
make a good bridge on which men, horses, and wagons can cross. After completing the bridge,
they immediately begin to take it up, load the lumber and pontoons on the wagons, and return
to camp. They can bridge any stream between this and the Tennessee in an hour, and can put
a bridge over that in probably three hours.

General Rosecrans makes a fine display in his visits about the camps. He is accompanied by
his staff and a large and well-equipped escort, with outriders in front and rear. The National
flag is borne at the head of the column.

Rosecrans is of medium height and stout, not quite so tall as McCook, and not nearly so heavy.
McCook is young, and very fleshy. Rousseau is by far the handsomest man in the army; tall and
well-proportioned, but possibly a little too bulky. R. S. Granger is a little man, with a heavy,
light sandy mustache. Wood is a small man, short and slim, with dark complexion, and black
whiskers. Crittenden, the major-general, is a spare man, medium height, lank, common sort of
face, well whiskered. Major-General Stanley, the cavalryman, is of good size, gentlemanly in
bearing, light complexion, brown hair. McCook and Wood swear like pirates, and affect the rough-and-ready
style. Rousseau is given to profanity somewhat, and blusters occasionally. Rosecrans indulges
in an oath now and then; but is a member of the Catholic Church in good standing. Crittenden,
I doubt not, swears like a trooper, and yet I have never heard him do so. He is a good drinker;
and the same can be said of Rousseau. Rosecrans is an educated officer, who has rubbed much
against the world, and has experience. Rousseau is brave, but knows little of military science.
McCook is a chucklehead. Wood and Crittenden know how to blow their own horns exceedingly well.
Major-General Thomas is tall, heavy, sedate; whiskers and head grayish. Puts on less style
than any of those named, and is a gentlemanly, modest, reliable soldier. Rosecrans and McCook
shave clean; Crittenden and Wood go the whole whisker; Thomas shaves the upper lip. Rosecrans'
nose is large, and curves down; Rousseau's is large, and curves up; McCook has a weak nose,
that would do no credit to a baby. Rosecrans' laugh is not one of the free, open, hearty kind;
Rousseau has a good laugh, but shows poor teeth; McCook has a grin, which excites the suspicion
that he is either still very green or deficient in the upper story.

22. Colonels Wilder and Funkhauser called. We had just disposed of a bottle of wine, when Colonel
Harker made his appearance, and we entered forthwith upon another. Colonel Wilder expects to
accomplish a great work with his mounted infantry. He is endeavoring to arm them with the Henry
rifle, a gun which, with a slight twist of the wrist, will throw sixteen bullets in almost
that many seconds. I have no doubt he will render his command very efficient and useful, for
he has wonderful energy and nerve, and is, besides, sensible and practical. Colonel Harker
is greatly disappointed because he was not confirmed as brigadier-general during the last session
of Congress. He is certainly young enough to afford to wait; but he seems to fear that, after
commanding a brigade for nine months, he may have to go back to a regiment. He feels, too,
that, being a New Jersey man, commanding Ohio troops, neither State will take an interest in
him, and render him that assistance which, under other circumstances, either of them might
do. These gentlemen dined with me. Harker and Wilder expressed a high opinion of General Buell.
Wilder says Gilbert is a d--d scoundrel, and responsible for the loss at Mumfordsville. Harker,
however, defended Gilbert, and is the only man I have ever heard speak favorably of him.

The train coming from Nashville to-day was fired upon and four men wounded. Yesterday there
was a force of the enemy along the whole south front of our picket line.

From the cook's tent, in the rear, comes a devotional refrain:

          "I'm gui-en home, I'm gui-en home,
             To d-i-e no mo'."

24. We are still pursuing the even tenor of our way on the fortifications. There are no indications
of an advance. The army, however, is well equipped, in good spirits, and prepared to move at
an hour's notice. Its confidence in Rosecrans is boundless, and whatever it may be required
to do, it will, I doubt not, do with a will.

The conscript law, and that clause especially which provides for the granting of a limited
number of furloughs, gives great satisfaction to the men. They not only feel that they will
soon have help, but that if their conduct be good, there will be a fair chance for them to
see home before the expiration of their term of enlistment. Hitherto they have been something
like prisoners without hope.

26. Another little misfortune has occurred to our arms at Brentwood. The Twenty-second Wisconsin,
numbering four hundred men, was captured by General Forrest. The rebels succeed admirably in
gathering up and consolidating our scattered troops.

The Adjutant and others are having a concert in the next tent, and certainly laugh more over
their own performance than singers do generally. They have just executed

          "The foin ould Irish gintleman,"

And are at this present writing shouting

          "Vive l' America, home of the free."

I think it more than probable that as their enthusiasm increases, the punch in their punch-bowl
diminishes.

27. A mule has just broken the stillness of the night by a most discordant bray, and I am reminded
that all horses are to be turned over to the mounted infantry regiments, and mules used in
the teams in their stead. Mules are far better for the wagons than horses. They require less
food, are hardier, and stand up better under rough work and irregular feeding.

I catch the faintest possible sound of a violin. Some indomitable spirit is enlivening the
night, and trenching upon the Sabbath, by giving loose rein to his genius.

During the light baggage and rapid marches of the latter part of Buell's
administration, together with the mishaps at Perryville, the string band
of the Third was very considerably damaged; but the boys have recently
resuscitated and revived it to all the glory and usefulness of former
days. One of its sweetest singers, however, has either deserted or
retired to hospital or barracks, where the duties are less onerous and
life more safe.
           Dey called mein frau one blacksmit-schopt;
           Und such dings I never did see in my life."

When, at Shelbyville and Huntsville, this melody mingled with the moonlight of summer evenings,
people generally were deluded into the supposition that an ethereal songster was on the wing,
enrapturing them with harmonies of other spheres. But sutlers, it is well known, are men of
little or no refinement, with ears for money rather than music. To their unappreciative and
perverted senses the warble seemed simply a dolorous appeal for more whisky; and while delivering
up their last bottle to get rid of the warbler and his friends, in order that they might get
sleep themselves, they have been known to express the hope that both song and singers might,
without unnecessary delay, go to that region which we are told is paved with good intentions.

The voice of a colored person in the rear breaks in upon my recollections of the warbler. The
most interesting and ugliest negro now in camp, is known as Simon Bolivar Buckner. He is an
animal that has been worth in his day eighteen hundred dollars, an estray from the estate of
General S. B. Buckner. He manages, by blacking boots and baking leather pies, to make money.
He deluded me into buying a second pie from him one day, by assuring me, "on honah, sah, dat
de las pie was better'n de fus', case he hab strawberries in him." True, the pie had "strawberries
in him," but not enough to pay one for chewing the whit-leather crust.

30. Read Judge Holt's review of the proceedings and findings in the case of Fitzjohn Porter.
If the review presents the facts fairly, Porter should have been not only dismissed, but hung.
An officer who, with thirteen thousand men, will remain idle when within sight of the dust
and in hearing of the shouts of the enemy and the noise of battle, knowing that his friends
are contending against superior numbers, and having good reason to believe that they are likely
to be overwhelmed, deserves no mercy.

It is dull. I have hardly enough to do to keep me awake. The members of the staff each have
their separate duties to perform, which keep them more or less engaged. The quartermaster issues
clothing to the troops; the commissary of subsistence issues food; the inspector looks into
the condition of each regiment as to clothing, arms, and camp equipage; the adjutant makes
out the detail for guard and other duties, and transmits orders received from the division
commander to the regiments. All of these officers have certain reports to make also, which
consumes much of their time.

APRIL, 1863.

1. Adjutant Wilson received a letter to-day, written in a hand that bespoke the writer to be
feminine. He looked at the name, but could not recollect having heard it before. The writer
assured him, however, that she was an old friend, and said many tender and complimentary things
of him. He tried to think; called the roll of his lady friends, but the advantage, as people
say, which the writer had of him was entirely too great. If he had ever heard the name, he
found it impossible now to recall it. Finally, as he was going to fold the letter and put it
away, he noticed one line at the top, written upside down. On reading it the mystery was solved:
"If this reaches you on the first day of April, a reply to it is not expected."

The colored gentlemen of the staff are in a great state of excitement. One of the number has
been illustrating the truth of that maxim which affirms that a nigger will steal. The war of
words is terrible. "Yer d--d ole nigger thief," says one. "Hush! I'll break yer black jaw fer
yer," says another. They say very few harder things of each other than "you dam nigger." One
would think the pot in this instance would hardly take to calling the kettle black, but it
does. They use the word nigger to express contempt, dislike, or defiance, as often and freely
as the whites. Finally, the parties to this controversy agree to leave the matter to "de Co'nel."
The accused was the first to thrust his head into my tent, and ask permission to enter. "Dey
is a gwine to tell yer as I stole some money from ole Hason. I didn't done it, Co'nel; as sure
as I'm a livin' I didn't done it." "Yaas, yer did, you lyin' nigger!" broke in old Hason. "Now,
Co'nel, I want ter tell you the straight of it." I listened patiently to the old man's statement
and to the evidence adduced, and as it was very clear that the accused was guilty, put him
under guard.

The first day of April has been very pleasant, cool but clear. The night is beautiful; the
moon is at its full almost, and its light falls mellow and soft on the scene around me. The
redoubt is near, with its guns standing sentinel at each corner, the long line of earthworks
stretches off to the right and left; the river gleams and sparkles as it flows between its
rugged banks of stone; the shadowy flags rise and fall lazily; the sentinels walk to and fro
on their beats with silvered bayonets, and the dull glare of the camp-fires, and the snow-white
tents, are seen every-where.

Somebody, possibly the Adjutant, whose thoughts may be still running on the fair unknown, breaks
forth:

          "O why did she flatter my boyish pride,
           She is going to leave me now;"

And then, with a vehemence which betokens desperation,

          "I'll hang my harp on a willow tree,
           And off to the wars again."

From which I infer it would be highly satisfactory to the young man to be demolished at the
enemy's earliest convenience.

A large amount of stores are accumulated here. Forty thousand boxes of hard bread are stacked
in one pile at the depot, and greater quantities of flour, pork, vinegar, and molasses, than
I have ever seen before.

3. An Indiana newspaper reached camp to-day containing an obituary notice of a lieutenant of
the Eighty-eighth Indiana. It gives quite a lengthy biographical sketch of the deceased, and
closes with a letter which purports to have been written on the battle-field by one Lieutenant
John Thomas, in which Lieutenant Wildman, the subject of the sketch, is said to have been shot
near Murfreesboro, and that his last words were: "Bury me where I have fallen, and do not allow
my body to be removed." The letter is exceedingly complimentary to the said lamented young
man, and affirms that "he was the hero of heroes, noted for his reckless daring, and universally
beloved." The singular feature about this whole matter is that the letter was written by the
lamented young officer himself to his own uncle. The deceased justifies his action by saying
that he had expended two dollars for foolscap and one dollar for postage stamps in writing
to the d--d old fool, and never received a reply, and he concluded finally he would write a
letter which would interest him. It appears by the paper referred to that the lieutenant succeeded.
The uncle and his family are in mourning for another martyr gone--the hero of heroes and the
universally beloved.

Lieutenant DuBarry, topographical engineer, has just been promenading the line of tents in
his nightshirt, with a club, in search of some scoundrel, supposed to be the Adjutant, who
has stuffed his bed with stove-wood and stones. Wilson, on seeing the ghostly apparition approach,
breaks into song:

          "Meet me by moonlight alone,
           And there I will tell you a tale."

Lieutenant Orr, commissary of subsistence, coming up at this time, remarks to DuBarry that
he "is surprised to see him take it so coolly," whereupon the latter, notwithstanding the chilliness
of the atmosphere, and the extreme thinness of his dress, expresses himself with very considerable
warmth. Patterson, a clerk, and as likely to be the offender as any one, now joins the party,
and affirms, with great earnestness, that "this practical joke business must end, or somebody
will get hurt."

4. Saw Major-General McCook, wife, and staff riding out this morning. General Rosecrans was
out this afternoon, but I did not see him. At this hour the signal corps is communicating from
the dome of the court-house with the forces at Triune, sixteen miles away, and with the troops
at Readyville and other points. In daylight this is done by flags, at night by torches.

5. There are many fine residences in Murfreesboro and vicinity; but the trees and shrubbery,
which contributed in a great degree to their beauty and comfort, have been cut or trampled
down and destroyed. Many frame houses, and very good ones, too, have been torn down, and the
lumber and timber used in the construction of hospitals.

There is a fearful stench in many places near here, arising from decaying horses and mules,
which have not been properly buried, or probably not buried at all. The camps, as a rule, are
well policed and kept clean; but the country for miles around is strewn with dead animals,
and the warm weather is beginning to tell on them.

6. It is said that the Third Regiment, with others, is to leave to-morrow on an expedition
which may keep it away for months. No official notice of the matter has been given me, and
I trust the report may be unfounded. I should be sorry indeed to be separated from the regiment.
I have been with it now two years, and to lose it would be like losing the greater number of
my army friends and acquaintances.

7. The incident of the day, to me at least, is the departure of the Third. It left on the two
P. M. train for Nashville. I do not think I have been properly treated. They should at least
have consulted me before detaching my old regiment. I am informed that Colonel Streight, who
is in command of the expedition, was permitted to select the regiments, and the matter has
been conducted so secretly that, before I had an intimation of what was contemplated, it was
too late to take any steps to keep the Third. I never expect to be in command of it again.
It will get into another current, and drift into other brigades, divisions, and army corps.
The idea of being mounted was very agreeable to both officers and men; but a little experience
in that branch of the service will probably lead them to regret the choice they have made.
My best wishes go with them.

All are looking with eager eyes toward Vicksburg. Its fall would send a thrill of joy through
the loyal heart of the country, especially if accompanied by the capture of the Confederate
troops now in possession.

8. Six months ago this night, parching with thirst and pinched with hunger, we were lying on
Chaplin Hills, thinking over the terrible battle of the afternoon, expecting its renewal in
the morning, listening to the shots on the picket line, and notified by an occasional bullet
that the enemy was occupying the thick woods just in our front, and very near. A little over
three months ago we were in the hurry, confusion, anxiety, and suspense of an undecided battle,
surrounded by the dead and dying, with the enemy's long line of camp-fires before us. Since
then we have had a quiet time, each succeeding day seeming the dullest.

Rode into town this afternoon; invested twenty-five cents in two red apples; spoke to Captain
Blair, of Reynolds' staff; exchanged nods with W. D. B., of the Commercial; saw a saddle horse
run away with its rider; returned to camp; entertained Shanks, of the New York Herald, for
ten minutes; drank a glass of wine with Colonel Taylor, Fifteenth Kentucky, and soon after
dropped off to sleep.

A brass band is now playing, away over on the Lebanon pike. The pontoniers are singing a psalm,
with a view, doubtless, to making the oaths with which they intend to close the night appear
more forcible. The signal lights are waving to and fro from the dome of the court-house. The
hungry mules of the Pioneer Corps are making the night hideous with howls. So, and amid such
scenes, the tedious hours pass by.

10. A soldier of the Fortieth Indiana, who, during the battle of Stone river, abandoned his
company and regiment, and remained away until the fight ended, was shot this afternoon. Another
will be shot on the 14th instant for deserting last fall. A man in our division who was sentenced
to be shot, made his escape.

It seems these cases were not affected by the new law, and the President's proclamation to
deserters. Hitherto deserters have been seldom punished, and, as a rule, never as severely
as the law allowed.

My parchment arrived to-day, and I have written the necessary letter of acceptance and taken
the oath, and henceforth shall subscribe myself yours, very respectfully, B. G., which, in
my case, will probably stand for big goose.

General Rosecrans halted a moment before my quarters this evening, shook hands with me very
cordially, and introduced me to his brother, the Bishop, as a young general. The General asked
why I had not called. I replied that I knew he must be busy, and did not care to intrude. "True,"
said he, "I am busy, but have always time to say how d'ye do." He promised me another regiment
to replace the Third, and said my boys looked fat enough to kick up their heels. The General's
popularity with the army is immense. On review, the other day, he saw a sergeant who had no
haversack; calling the attention of the boys to it he said: "This sergeant is without a haversack;
he depends on you for food; don't give him a bite; let him starve."

The General appears to be well pleased with his fortifications, and asked me if I did not think
it looked like remaining. I replied that the works were strong, and a small force could hold
them, and that I should be well pleased if the enemy would attack us here, instead of compelling
us to go further south. "Yes," said he, "I wish they would."

General Lytle is to be assigned to Stanley Matthews' brigade. The latter was recently elected
judge, and will resign and return to Cincinnati.

The anti-Copperhead resolution business of the army must be pretty well exhausted. All the
resolutions and letters on this subject that may appear hereafter may be accepted as bids for
office. They have, however, done a great deal of good, and I trust the public will not be forced
to swallow an overdose. I had a faint inclination, at one time, to follow the example of my
brother officers, and write a patriotic letter, but concluded to reserve my fire, and have
had reason to congratulate myself since that I did so, for these letters have been as plenty
as blackberries, and many of them not half so good.

A Republican has not much need to write. His patriotism is taken for granted. He is understood
to be willing to go the whole nigger, and, like the ogre of the story books, to whom the most
delicious morsel was an old woman, lick his chops and ask for more.

Wilder came in yesterday, with his mounted infantry, from a scout of eight or ten days, bringing
sixty or seventy prisoners and a large number of horses.

11. A railway train was destroyed by the rebels near Lavergne yesterday. One hundred officers
fell into the hands of the enemy, and probably one hundred thousand dollars in money, on the
way to soldiers' families, was taken. This feat was accomplished right under the nose of our
troops.

To the uninitiated army life is very fascinating. The long marches, nights of picket, and ordeal
of battle are so festooned by the imagination of the inexperienced with shoulder straps, glittering
blades, music, banners, and glory, as to be irresistible; but when we sit down to the hard
crackers and salt pork, with which the soldier is wont to regale himself, we can not avoid
recurring to the loaded tables and delicious morsels of other days, and are likely at such
times to put hard crackers and glory on one side, the good things of home and peace on the
other and owing probably to the unsubstantial quality of glory, and the adamantine quality
of the crackers, arrive at conclusions not at all favorable to army life.

A fellow claiming to have been sent here by the Governor of Maine to write songs for the army,
and who wrote songs for quite a number of regiments, was arrested some days ago on the charge
of being a spy. Last night he attempted to get away from the guard, and was shot. Drawings
of our fortifications were found in his boots. He was quite well known throughout the army,
and for a long time unsuspected.

12. Called on General Rousseau. He referred to his trip to Washington, and dwelt with great
pleasure on the various efforts of the people along the route to do him honor. At Lancaster,
Pennsylvania, they stood in the cold an hour and a half awaiting his appearance. Our division,
he informs me, is understood to possess the chivalric and dashing qualities which the people
admire. With all due respect, I suggested that dash was a good thing, doubtless, but steady,
obstinate, well-directed fighting was better, and, in the end, would always succeed.

W. D. B., of the Commercial, Major McDowell, of Rousseau's staff, and Lieutenant Porter, called
this afternoon. My report of the operations of my brigade at Stone river was referred to. Bickham
thought it did not do justice to my command, and I have no doubt it is a sorry affair, compared
with the elaborate reports of many others. The historian who accepts these reports as reliable,
and permits himself to be guided by them through all the windings of a five-days' battle, with
the expectation of finally allotting to each one of forty brigades the proper credit, will
probably not be successful. My report was called for late one evening, written hastily, without
having before me the reports of my regimental commanders, and is incomplete, unsatisfactory
to me, and unjust to my brigade.

13. General Thomas called for a moment this evening, to congratulate me on my promotion.

The practical-joke business is occasionally resumed. Quartermaster Wells was astonished to
find that his stove would not draw, or, rather, that the smoke, contrary to rule, insisted
upon coming down instead of going up. Examination led to the discovery that the pipe was stuffed
with old newspapers. Their removal heated the stove and his temper at the same time, but produced
a coolness elsewhere, which the practical joker affected to think quite unaccountable.

14. Colonel Dodge, commanding the Second Brigade of Johnson's division, called this afternoon.
The Colonel is a very industrious talker, chewer, spitter, and drinker. He has been under some
tremendous hot firing, I can tell you! Well, if he don't know what heavy firing is, and the
d--dest hottest work, too, then there is no use for men to talk! The truth is, however much
other men may try to conceal it, his command stood its ground at Shiloh, and never gave back
an inch. No, sir! Every other brigade faltered or fell back, damned if they didn't; but he
drove the enemy, got 'em started, other brigades took courage and joined in the chase. At Stone
river he drove the enemy again. Bullets came thicker'n hail; but his men stood up. He was with
'em. Damned hot, you better believe! Well, if he must say it himself, he knew what hard fighting
was. Why, sir, one of his men has five bullets in him; dam' me if he hasn't five! Says he,
Dick says he, how did they hit you so many times? The first time I fired, says Dick, I killed
an officer; yes, sir, killed him dead; saw him fall, dam me, if he didn't, sir; and at the
same time, says Dick, I got a ball in my leg; rose up to fire again, and got one in my other
leg, and one in my thigh, and fell; got on my knees to fire the third time, says Dick, and
received two more. Well, you see, the firing was hotter'n hell, and Colonel Dodge knows what
hot firing is, sir!

15. Since the fight at Franklin, and the capture of the passenger train at Lavergne, nothing
of interest has occurred. There were only fifteen or twenty officers on the captured train.
A large amount of money, however, fell into rebel hands. The postmaster of our division was
on the train, and the Confederates compelled him to accompany them ten miles. He says they
could have been traced very easily by the letters which they opened and scattered along the road.

16. Morgan, with a considerable force, has taken possession of Lebanon, and troops are on the
way thither to rout him. The tunnel near Gallatin has been blown up, and in consequence trains
on the Nashville and Louisville Railroad are not running.

17. Am member of a board whose duty it will be to inquire into the competency, qualifications,
and conduct of volunteer officers. The other members are Colonels Scribner, Hambright, and
Taylor. We called in a body on General Rousseau, and found him reading "Les Miserables." He
apologized for his shabby appearance by saying that he had become interested in a foolish novel.
Colonel Scribner expressed great admiration for the characters Jean Val Jean and Javort, when
the General confessed to a very decided anxiety to have Javort's neck twisted. This is the
feeling of the reader at first; but when he finds the old granite man taking his own life as
punishment for swerving once from what he considered to be the line of duty, our admiration
for him is scarcely less than that we entertain for Jean Val Jean.

18. The Columbus (Ohio) Journal, of late date, under the head of "Arrivals," says: "General
John Beatty has just married one of Ohio's loveliest daughters, and is stopping at the Neil
House. Good for the General." This is a slander. I trust the paper of the next day made proper
correction, and laid the charge, where it belongs, to wit: on General Samuel. If General Sam
continues to demean himself in this youthful manner, I shall have to beg him to change his
name. My reputation can not stand many more such blows. What must those who know I have a wife
and children think, when they see it announced that I have married again, and am stopping at
the Neil with "one of Ohio's loveliest daughters?" What a horrible reflection upon the character
of a constant and faithful husband! (This last sentence is written for my wife.)

19. Colonel Taylor and I rode over to General Rousseau's this morning. Returning, we were joined
by Colonel Nicholas, Second Kentucky; Colonel Hobart, Twenty-first Wisconsin, and Lieutenant-Colonel
Bingham, First Wisconsin, all of whom took dinner with me. We had a right pleasant party, but
rather boisterous, possibly, for the Sabbath day.

There is at this moment a lively discussion in progress in the cook's tent, between two African
gentlemen, in regard to military affairs. Old Hason says: "Oh, hush, darkey!" Buckner replies:
"Yer done no what'r talkin' about, nigger." "I'll bet yer a thousand dollars." "Hush! yer ain't
got five cents." "Gor way, yer don't no nuffin'." And so the debate continues; but, like many
others, leads simply to confusion and bitterness.

20. This evening an order came transferring my brigade to Negley's division. It will be known
hereafter as the Second Brigade, Second Division, Fourteenth Army Corps.

28. Late last Monday night an officer from Stokes' battery reported to me for duty. I told
him I had received no orders, and knew of no reason why he should report to me, and that in
all probability General Samuel Beatty, of Van Cleve's division, was the person to whom he should
report. I regarded the matter as simply one of the many blunders which were occurring because
there were two men of the same name and rank commanding brigades in this army; and so, soon
after the officer left, I went to bed. Before I had gotten fairly to sleep, some one knocked
again at my tent-door. While rising to strike a light the person entered, and said that he
had been ordered to report to me. Supposing it to be the officer of the battery persisting
in his mistake, I replied as before, and then turned over and went to sleep. I thought no more
of the matter until 11:30 A. M. next day, when an order came which should have been delivered
twenty-four hours before, requiring me to get my brigade in readiness, and with one regiment
of Colonel Harker's command and the Chicago Board of Trade Battery, move toward Nashville at
two o'clock Tuesday morning. Then, of course, I knew why the two officers had reported to me
on the night previous, and saw that there had been an inexcusable delay in the transmission
of the order to me. Giving the necessary directions to the regimental commanders, and sending
notice to Harker and the battery, I proceeded with all dispatch direct to Department head-quarters,
whence the order had issued, to explain the delay. When I entered General Rosecrans shook hands
with me cordially, and seemed pleased to see me; but I had no sooner announced my business,
and informed him that the order had been delivered to me not ten minutes before, than he flew
into a violent passion, and asked if a battery and regiment had not reported to me the night
before. I replied yes, and was proceeding to give my reasons for supposing that the officers
reporting them were in error, when he shouted: "Why, in hell and damnation, did you not mount
your horse and come to head-quarters to inquire what it meant?" I undertook again to tell him
I had received no order, and as my brigade had been detailed to work on fortifications I was
expecting none; that I had taken it for granted that it was another of the many mistakes occurring
constantly because there were two officers of the same name and rank in the army, and had so
told the parties reporting; but he would not listen to me. His face was inflamed with anger,
his rage uncontrollable, his language most ungentlemanly, abusive, and insulting. Garfield
and many officers, commissioned and non-commissioned, and possibly not a few civilians, were
present to witness my humiliation. For an instant I was tempted to strike him; but my better
sense checked me. I turned on my heel and left the room. Death would have had few terrors for
me just then. I had never felt such bitter mortification before, and it seemed to me that I
was utterly and irreparably disgraced. However, I had a duty to perform, and while in the execution
of that I would have time to think.

My brigade, one regiment of Colonel Harker's brigade, and the Chicago Board of Trade Battery,
were already on the road. We marched rapidly, and that night (Tuesday) encamped in the woods
north of Lavergne. Rain fell most of the night; but the men had shelter tents, and I passed
the time comfortably in a wagon. The next morning at daylight we started again, and a little
after sunrise arrived at Scrougeville. Here my orders directed me to halt and watch the movements
of the enemy. The rebel cavalry, in pretty strong force, had been in the vicinity during the
day and evening before; but on learning of our approach had galloped away. We were exceedingly
active, and scoured the country for miles around, but did not succeed in getting sight of even
one of these dashing cavaliers.

The sky cleared, the weather became delightful, and the five days spent in the neighborhood
of Scrougeville were very agreeable. It was a pleasant change from the dull routine of camp
duty, and my men were in exuberant spirits, excessively merry and gay. While there, a good-looking
non-commissioned officer of the battery came up to me, and, extending his hand, said: "How
do you do, General?" I shook him by the hand, but could not for the life of me recollect that
I had ever seen him before. Seeing that I failed to recognize him, he said: "My name is Concklin.
I knew you at Sandusky, and used to know your wife well." Still I could not remember him. "You
knew General Patterson?" he asked. "Yes." "Mary Patterson?" "Yes; I shall never forget her."
"Do you recollect a stroll down to the bay shore one moonlight night?" Of course I remembered
it. This was John Concklin, Mary's cousin. I remembered very well how he devoted himself to
one I felt considerable interest in, while his cousin Mary and I talked in a jocular way about
the cost of housekeeping, both agreeing that it would require but a very small sum to set up
such an establishment as our modest ambition demanded. I was heartily glad to meet the young
man. He looks very different from the smooth-faced boy of ten years ago. I was slightly jealous
of him then, and I do not know but I might have reason to be now, for he is a fine, manly fellow.

At Scrougeville--how softly the name ripples on the ear!--we were entertained magnificently.
Above us was the azure canopy; around us a dense forest of cedars, and in a shady nook, a sylvan
retreat as it were, a barrel of choice beer. The mocking-birds caroled from the evergreen boughs.
The plaintive melody of the dove came to us from over the hills, and pies at a quarter each
poured in upon us in profusion; and such pies! When night threw over us her shadowy mantle,
and the crescent moon blessed us with her mellow light, the notes of the whip-poor-will mingling
with the bark of watch-dogs and the barbaric melody of the Ethiopian, floated out on the genial
air, and, as stretched on the green sward, we smoked our pipes and drank our beer, thoughts
of fairy land possessed us, and we looked wonderingly around and inquired, is Scrougeville
a reality or a vision? I fear we shall never see the like of Scrougeville again.

On the morning of the 26th instant I received a telegram ordering our immediate return, and
we reached Murfreesboro at two o'clock P. M. same day.

I had not forgotten the terrible scolding received from the General just before starting on
this expedition; in fact, I am not likely ever to forget it. It had now been a millstone on
my heart for a week. I could not stand it. What could I do? At first I thought I would send
in my resignation, but that I concluded would afford me no relief; on the contrary, it would
look as if I had been driven out of the army. My next impulse was to ask to be relieved from
duty in this department, and assigned elsewhere; but on second thought this did not seem desirable.
It would appear as if I was running away from the displeasure of the commanding general, and
would affect me unfavorably wherever I might go. I felt that if I was to blame at all in this
matter, it was in a very slight degree. The General's language was utterly inexcusable. He
was a man simply, and I concluded finally that I would not leave either the army or the department
under a cloud. I, therefore, sat down and wrote the following letter:

                            "MURFREESBORO, April 27, 1863.
          "MAJOR-GENERAL W. S. ROSECRANS,
            "Commanding Department of the Cumberland:

          "SIR--Your attack upon me, on the morning of the
          21st instant, has been the subject of thought
          since. I have been absent on duty five days, and,
          therefore, have not referred to it before. It is
          the first time since I entered the army, two years
          ago, as it is the first time in my life, that it
          has been my misfortune to listen to abuse so
          violent and unreasonable as that with which you
          were pleased to favor me in the presence of the
          aids, orderlies, officers, and visitors, at your
          quarters. While I am unwilling to rest quietly
          under the disgrace and ridicule which attaches to
          the subject of such a tirade, I do not question
          your right to censure when there has been
          remissness in the discharge of duties; and to such
          reasonable admonition I am ever ready to yield
          respectful and earnest attention; but I know of no
          rule, principle, or precedent, which confers upon
          the General commanding this Department the right
          to address language to an officer which, if used
          by a private soldier to his company officer, or by
          a company officer to a private soldier, would be
          deemed disgraceful and lead to the punishment of
          the one or the dismissal of the other. Insisting,
          therefore, upon that right, which I conceive
          belongs to the private in the ranks, as well at to
          every subordinate officer in the army who has been
          aggrieved, I demand from you an apology for the
          insulting language addressed to me on the morning
          of the 21st instant.

                "I am, sir, respectfully,
                         "Your obedient servant,
                                  "JOHN BEATTY, Brig.-Gen'l."

I sent this. Would it be regarded as an act of presumption and treated with ridicule and contempt?
I feared it might, and sat thinking anxiously over the matter until my orderly returned, with
the envelope marked "W. S. R.," the army mode of acknowledging receipt of letter or order.
Fifteen minutes later this reply came:

           "HEAD-QUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE CUMBERLAND,}
                       "MURFREESBORO, April, 1863.   }

          "MY DEAR GENERAL--I have just received the
          inclosed note, marked "Private," but addressed to
          me as commanding the Department of the Cumberland.
          It compromises you in so many ways that I return
          it to you. I am your friend, and regretted that
          the circumstances of the case compelled me, as a
          commanding officer, to express myself warmly about
          a matter which might have cost us dearly, to one
          for whom I felt so kindly. You will report to me
          in person, without delay.

                               W. S. ROSECRANS, Maj.-Gen'l.
          "BRIG.-GEN'L JOHN BEATTY, Fortifications, Stone
          river.

          "P. S.--It might be well to bring this inclosure
          with you."

The inclosure referred to was, of course, my letter to him. The answer was not, by any means,
an apology. On the contrary, it assumed that he was justifiable in censuring me as he did,
and yet it expressed good feeling for me. It was probably written in haste, and without thought.
It was not satisfactory; but I was led by it to hope that I could reach a point which would be.

I obeyed the order to report promptly. He took me into his private office, where we talked
over the whole affair together. He expressed regret that he had not known all the circumstances
before, and said, in conclusion: "I am your friend. Some men I like to scold, for I don't like
them; but I have always entertained the best of feeling for you." Taking me, at the close of
our interview, from his private office into the public room, where General Garfield and others
were, he turned and asked if it was all right--if I was satisfied. I expressed my thanks, shook
hands with him, and left, feeling a thousand times more attached to him, and more respect for
him than I had ever felt before. He had the power to crush me, for at this time he is almost
omnipotent in this department, and by a simple word he might have driven me from the army,
disgraced in the estimation of both soldiers and citizens. His magnanimity and kindness, however,
lifted a great load from my spirits, and made me feel like a new man; and I am very sure that
he felt better and happier also, for no man does a generous act to one below him in rank or
station, without being recompensed therefor by a feeling of the liveliest satisfaction. I may
have been too sensitive, and may not, probably did not, realize fully the necessity for prompt
action, and the weight of responsibility which rested upon the General. There are times when
there is no time for explanation; great exigencies, in the presence of which lives, fortunes,
friendships, and all matters of lesser importance must give way; moments when men's thoughts
are so concentrated on a single object, and their whole being so wrought up, that they can
see nothing, know nothing, but the calamity they desire to avert, or the victory they desire
to achieve. Nashville had been threatened. To have lost it, or allowed it to be gutted by the
enemy, would have been a great misfortune to the army, and brought down upon Rosecrans not
only the anathemas of the War Department, but would have gone far to lose him the confidence
of the whole people. He supposed the enemy's movements had been checked, and was startled and
thrown off his balance by discovering that they were still unopposed. The error was attributable
in part possibly to me, in part to a series of blunders, which had resulted from the fact that
there were two persons in the army of the same name and rank, but mainly to those who failed
to transmit the order in proper time.

29. Our large tents have been taken away, and shelter tents substituted. This evening, when
the boys crawled into the latter, they gave utterance, good-humoredly, to every variety of
howl, bark, snap, whine, and growl of which the dog is supposed to be capable.

Colonel George Humphreys, Eighty-eighth Indiana, whom I supposed to be a full-blooded Hoosier,
tells me he is a Scotchman, and was born in Ayrshire, in the same house in which Robert Burns
had birth. His grandfather, James Humphreys, was the neighbor and companion of the poet. It
was of him he wrote this epitaph, at an ale-house, in the way of pleasantry:

          "Below these stanes lie Jamie's banes.
             O! Death, in my opinion,
           You ne'er took sic a blither'n bitch
             Into thy dark dominion."

30. This afternoon called on General Thomas; met General R. S. Granger; paid my respects to
General Negley, and stopped for a moment at General Rousseau's. The latter was about to take
a horseback ride with his daughter, to whom I was introduced.

MAY, 1863.

1. The One Hundred and Thirteenth Ohio is at Franklin. Colonel Wilcox has resigned; Lieutenant-Colonel
Mitchell will succeed to the colonelcy. I rode over the battle-field with the latter this afternoon.

4. Two men from Breckenridge's command strayed into our lines to-day.

7. Colonels Hobart, Taylor, Nicholas, and Captain Nevin spent the afternoon with me.

The intelligence from Hooker's army is contradictory and unintelligible. We hope it was successful,
and yet find little beside the headlines in the telegraphic column to sustain that hope. The
German regiments are said to have behaved badly. This is, probably, an error. Germans, as a
rule, are reliable soldiers. This, I think, is Carl Schurz's first battle; an unfortunate beginning
for him.

9. The arrest of Vallandingham, we learn from the newspapers, is creating a great deal of excitement
in the North. I am pleased to see the authorities commencing at the root and not among the
branches.

I have just read Consul Anderson's appeal to the people of the United States in favor of an
extensive representation of American live stock, machinery, and manufactures, at the coming
fair in Hamburg. Friend James made a long letter of it; and, I doubt not, drank a gallon of
good Dutch beer after each paragraph.

11. The Confederate papers say Streight's command was surrendered to four hundred and fifty
rebels. I do not believe it. The Third Ohio would have whipped that many of the enemy on any
field and under any circumstances. The expedition was a foolish one. Colonel Harker, who knows
Streight well, predicted the fate which has overtaken him. He is brave, but deficient in judgment.
The statement that his command surrendered to an inferior force is, doubtless, false. Forrest
had, I venture to say, nearer four thousand and fifty than four hundred and fifty. The rebels
always have a great many men before a battle, but not many after. They profess still to believe
in the one-rebel-to-three-Yankee theory, and make their statements to correspond. The facts
when ascertained will, I have no doubt, show that the Union brigade was pursued by an overwhelming
force, and being exhausted by constant riding, repeated fights, want of food and sleep, surrendered
after ammunition had given out and all possibility of escape gone. The enemy is strong in cavalry,
and it is not at all probable that he would have sent but four hundred and fifty men to look
after a brigade, which had boldly ventured hundreds of miles inside his lines. In fact, General
Forrest seldom, if ever, travels with so small a command as he is said to have had on this
occasion.

13. An order has been issued prohibiting women from visiting the army. I infer from this that
a movement is contemplated.

14. General Negley called to-day, and remained for half an hour. He is a large, rosy-cheeked,
handsome, affable man, and a good disciplinarian.

I am going to have a horse-race in the morning with Major McDowell, of Rousseau's staff. Stakes
two bottles of wine.

When we entered Murfreesboro, nearly a year ago, the boys brought in a lame horse, which they
had picked up on the road. The horse hobbled along with difficulty, and for a long time was
used to carry the knapsacks and guns of soldiers who were either too unwell or too lazy to
transport these burdens themselves. The horse had belonged to a Texas cavalryman, and had been
abandoned when so lame as to be unfit for service. Finally, when his shattered hoof got well,
he was transferred from the hospital department to the quartermaster's, where he became a favorite.
The quartermaster called my attention to the horse, and I had him appraised and took him for
my own use. Under the skillful and attentive hands of my hostler he soon shook off his shaggy
coat of ugly brown, and put on one of velvety black. After a few days of trial I discovered
not only that he was an easy goer, but had the speed of the wind. When at his fastest pace
he is liable to overreach; it was thus that his left fore hoof had been shattered. To prevent
a recurrence of the accident, I keep his hoof protected by leathers. I believe he is the fastest
horse in the Army of the Cumberland.

15. Major McDowell did not put in an appearance until after I had returned from my morning
ride. He brought Colonel Loomis with him to witness the grand affair; but as it was late, we
finally concluded to postpone the race until another morning.

Some one has been kind enough to lay on my table a handsome bunch of red pinks and yellow roses.

My staff has been increased, the late addition being "U. S.," a large and very lazy yellow
dog. The two letters which give him his title are branded on his shoulder. He sticks very close
to me, for the reason, possibly, that I do not kick him, and say "Get out," as most persons
are tempted to do when they look upon his most unprepossessing visage. He is a solemn dog,
and probably has had a rough row to hoe through life. At times, when I speak an encouraging
word, he brightens up, and makes an effort to be playful; but cheerfulness is his forte no
more than "fiten" was A. Ward's, and he soon relapses into the deepest melancholy.

16. Read Emil Schalk's article on Hooker. It is an easy matter for that gentleman to sit in
his library, plan a campaign, and win a battle. I could do that myself; but when we undertake
to make the campaign, fight the battle, and win the victory, we find it very much more difficult.
Book farmers are wonderfully successful on paper, and show how fortunes may be gathered in
a single season, but when they come down to practical farming, they discover quite often that
frost, or rain, or drouth, plays the mischief with their theories, and renders them bankrupt.

It can be demonstrated, doubtless, that a certain blow, delivered at a certain place and time,
against a certain force, will crush it; but does it not require infinite skill and power to
select the place and time with certainty? A broken bridge, swollen stream, or even the most
trifling incident, which no man can foresee or overrule, may disarrange and render futile the
best-laid plans, and lead to defeat and disaster. After a battle we can easily look back and
see where mistakes have been made; but it is more difficult, if not impossible, to look forward
and avoid them. War is a blind and uncertain game at best, and whoever plays it successfully
must not only hold good cards, but play them discreetly, and under the most favorable circumstances.

17. Starkweather informs me that he has been urged to return to Wisconsin and become a candidate
for governor, and for fear he might accede to the wishes of the people in this regard, the
present governor was urging his promotion. He is still undecided whether to accept a brigadier's
commission or the nomination for this high civil office. Wind.

18. Two deserters came into our lines to-day. They were members of a regiment in Cleburne's
division, and left their command at Fosterville, ten or fifteen miles out. They represent the
Southern army in our front as very strong, in good condition and fine spirits. The rebel successes
on the Rappahannock have inspired them with new life, and have, to some extent, dispirited
us. We do not, however, build largely on the Eastern army. It is an excellent body of men,
in good discipline, but for some reason it has been unfortunate. When we hear, therefore, that
the Eastern army is going to fight, we make up our minds that it is going to be defeated, and
when the result is announced we feel sad enough, but not disappointed.

19. Generals Rosecrans, Negley, and Garfield, with the staffs of the two former, appeared on
the field where I was drilling the brigade. General Rosecrans greeted me very cordially. I
am satisfied that those who allow themselves to be damned once without remonstrance are very
likely to be damned always.

I am becoming quite an early riser; have seen the sun rise every morning for two weeks. Saw
the moon over my right shoulder. Lucky month ahead. Am devoting a little more time than usual
to my military books.

Colonel Moody, Seventy-fourth Ohio, has resigned.

20. This afternoon I received orders to be in readiness to move at a moment's notice.

21. The days now give us a specimen of the four seasons. At sunrise it is pretty fair winter
for this latitude. An hour after, good spring; at noon, midsummer; at sunset, fall. Flies are
too numerous to mention even by the million. They come on drill at 8 A. M., and continue their
evolutions until sun-down.

Wilson, Orr, and DuBarry are indisposed. My cast-iron constitution holds good. As a rule, I
take no medicine or medical advice. In a few instances I have acceded to the wishes of my friends,
and applied to the doctors; but have been careful not to allow their prescriptions to get further
than my vest pocket.

The colt has just whinnied in response to another horse. He is in fine condition; coat as sleek
and glossy as that of a bridegroom. Yesterday I rode him on drill, and the little scamp got
into a quarrel with another horse, reared up, and made a plunge that came near unseating me.
He agrees with Wilson's horse very well, but seems to think it his duty to exercise a sort
of paternal care over him; and so on all occasions when possible he takes the reins of Wilson's
bridle between his teeth and holds it tightly, as if determined that the speed of the Adjutant's
horse should be regulated by his own. My black is also in excellent condition, and certainly
very fast. My race has not yet come off.

23. Received a box of catawba wine and pawpaw brandy from Colonel James G. Jones, half of which
I was requested to deliver to General Rosecrans, and the other half keep to drink to the Colonel's
health, which at present is very poor.

Colonel Gus Wood called this afternoon. He is one of those who were captured on the railroad
train near Lavergne, 10th of last April, and has returned to camp via Tullahoma, Chattanooga,
and Richmond. He says the rebel troops are in good condition and good spirits; thinks there
is an immense force in our front, and that it would not be advisable to advance.

The enlisted men of the Third are at Annapolis, Maryland, and will soon be at Camp Chase, Ohio.
The officers are in Libby.

The box of cigars presented to me by my old friend, W. H. Marvin, still holds out. Whenever
I am in a great straight for a smoke I try one; but I have not yet succeeded in finding a good
one. I affect to be very liberal, and pass the box around freely; but all who have tried the
cigars once insist that they do not smoke. They will probably last to the end of the war.

26. The privates of the Eighty-eighth Indiana presented a two-hundred-dollar sword to Colonel
Humphreys, and the Colonel felt it to be his duty to invest the price of the sword in beer
for the boys.

Lieutenant Orr was kind enough to give me a field glass.

Hewitt's Kentucky battery has been assigned to me. Colonel Loomis has assumed command of his
battery again. His commission as colonel was simply a complimentary one, conferred by the Governor
of Michigan. He should be recognized by the War Department as colonel. No man in the army is
better entitled to the position. His services at Perryville and Stone river, to say nothing
of those in West Virginia and North Alabama, would be but poorly requited by promotion.

Hewitt's battery has not been fortunate in the past. It was captured at this place last summer,
when General T. T. Crittenden was taken, and lost quite a number of men, horses, and one gun,
in the battle of Stone river.

28. At midnight orderlies went clattering around the camps with orders for the troops to be
supplied with five days' provisions, and in readiness to march at a moment's notice. We expected
to be sent away this morning, but no orders have yet come to move.

Mrs. Colonel B. F. Scribner sent me a very handsome bouquet with her compliments.

Mr. Furay accompanied Vallandingham outside the Federal lines, and received from him a parting
declaration, written in pencil and signed by himself, wherein he claimed that he was a citizen
of Ohio and of the United States, brought there by force and against his will, and that he
delivered himself up as a prisoner of war.

30. Captain Gilbert E. Winters, A. C. S., took tea with me. He is as jovial as the most successful
man in the world, and overruns with small jokes and stories, many of which he claims were told
him by President Lincoln. From this we might infer that the President has very little to do
but entertain and amuse gentlemen, who apply to him for appointments, with conversation so
coarse that it would be discreditable to a stable boy.

31. Received a letter from daughter Nellie, a little school girl. She "wishes the war was out."
So do I.

JUNE, 1863.

1. By invitation, the mounted officers of our brigade accompanied General Negley to witness
the review of Rousseau's division. There were quite a large number of spectators, including
a few ladies. I was introduced to General Wood for the first time, although I have known him
by sight, and known of him well, for months. Many officers of Wood's and Negley's divisions
were present. After the review, and while the troops were leaving the field, Colonel Ducat,
Inspector-General on General Rosecrans' staff, and Colonel Harker, challenged me for a race.
Soon after, Major McDowell, of Rousseau's staff, joined the party; and, while we were getting
into position for the start, General Wagner, who has a long-legged white horse, which, he insisted,
could beat any thing on the ground, took place in the line. McCook, Wood, Loomis, and many
others, stopped to witness the race. The horses were all pacers; it was, in fact, a gathering
of the best horses in the army, and each man felt confident. I was absolutely sure my black
would win, and the result proved that I was correct.

The only time during the race that I was honored with the company of my competitors, was at
the starting; then, I observed, they were all up; but a half a minute later the black took
the lead. The old fellow had evidently been on the track before, and felt as much interest
in the contest as his owner. He knew what was expected of him, and as he went flying over the
ground astonished me, as he did every body else. Loomis, who professes to know much about horses,
said to me before the race took place, "Your's is a good-looking horse, but he can't beat McDowell's."
Before leaving the field, however, he admitted that he had been mistaken. My horse was quicker
of foot than he supposed.

2. Called on Colonel Scribner and wife, where I met also Colonel Griffin and wife; had a long
conversation about spiritualism, mesmerism, clairvoyance, and subjects of that ilk. At night
there was a fearful thunder-storm. The rain descended in torrents, and the peals of thunder
were, I think, louder and more frequent than I ever heard before.

Met Loomis; he had accompanied General Rosecrans and others to witness the trial of a machine,
invented by Wilder, for tearing up railroad tracks and injuring the rails in such a manner
as to render them worthless. Hitherto the rebels, when they have torn up our railroads, have
placed the bars crosswise on a pile of ties, set fire to the latter, and so heated and bent
the rails; but by heating them again they could be easily straightened and made good. Wilder's
instrument twists them so they can not be used again.

The New York Herald, I observe, refers with great severity to General Hascall's administration
of affairs in Indiana; saying that "to place such a brainless fool in a military command is
not simply an error, it is a crime." This is grossly unjust. Hascall is not only a gallant
soldier, but a man of education and excellent sense. He has been active, and possibly severe,
in his opposition to treasonable organizations and notoriously disloyal men, whose influence
was exerted to discourage enlistments and retard the enforcement of the draft. Unfortunately,
in time of civil war, besides the great exigencies which arise to threaten the commonwealth,
innumerable lesser evils gather like flies about an open wound, to annoy, irritate, and kill.
Against these the law has made no adequate provision. The military must, therefore, often interpose
for the public good, without waiting for legislative authority, or the slow processes of the
civil law, just as the fireman must proceed to batter down the doors of a burning edifice,
without stopping to obtain the owner's permission to enter and subdue the flames.

3. Our division was reviewed to-day. The spectators were numerous, numbering among other distinguished
personages Generals Rosecrans, Thomas, Crittenden, Rousseau, Sheridan, and Wood. The weather
was favorable, and the review a success. In the evening, a large party gathered at Negley's
quarters, where lunch and punch were provided in abundance.

Generals Wood and Crittenden, of the Twenty-first Army Corps, claimed that I did not beat Wagner
fairly in the horse-race the other day. I expressed a willingness to satisfy them that I could
do so any day; and, further, that my horse could out-go any thing in the Twenty-first Corps.
The upshot of the matter is that we have a race arranged for Friday afternoon at four o'clock.

The party was a merry one; gentlemen imbibed freely. General Rosecrans' face was as red as
a beet; he had, however, been talking with ladies, and being a diffident man, was possibly
blushing. Wood persisted that the Twenty-first Corps could not be beaten in a horse-race, and
that Wagner's long-legged white was the most wonderful pacer he ever saw. Negley seemed possessed
with the idea that every body was trying to escape, and that it was necessary for him to seize
them by the arm and haul them back to the table; he seemed also to be laboring under the delusion
that his guests would not drink unless he kept his eye on them, and forced them to do so. Lieutenant-Colonel
Ducat, an Irishman of the Charles O'Malley school, insisted upon introducing me to the ladies,
but fortunately I was sober enough to decline the invitation. Harker, late in the evening,
thought he discovered a disposition on the part of others to play off on him; he felt in duty
bound to empty a full tumbler, while they shirked by taking only half of one, which he affirmed
was unfair and inexcusable. General Thomas, after sitting at his wine an hour, conversing the
while with a lady, arose from the table evidently very much refreshed, and proceeded to make
himself exceedingly agreeable. I never knew the old gentleman to be so affable, cordial, and
complimentary before.

4. The guns have been reverberating in our front all day. I am told that Sheridan's division
advanced on the Shelbyville road. It is probable that a part, if not the whole, of the firing
is in his front.

5. Read the Autobiography of Peter Cartright. It is written in the language of the frontier,
and presents a rough, strong, uneducated man, full of vanity, courage, and religious zeal.
He never reached the full measure of dignity requisite to a minister of the Gospel. There are
many amusing incidents in the volume, and many tales of adventures with sinners, in the cabin,
on the road, and at camp meeting, in all of which Cartright gets the better of the sons of
Belial, and triumphs in the Lord.

8. The One Hundred and Fourth Illinois, Colonel Moore, reported to me for duty, so that I have
now four regiments and a battery. This Colonel Moore is the same who was in command at Hartsville,
and whose regiment and brigade were captured by the ubiquitous John Morgan last winter. He
has but recently returned from the South, where, for a time, he was confined in Libby prison.

The rebels are still prowling about our lines, but making no great demonstrations of power.

9. Governor (?) Billy Williams;, of Indiana, dined with me to-day; he resides in Warsaw, is
a politician, a fair speaker, and an inveterate story teller.

Wilson has been appointed Assistant Adjutant-General, with the rank of captain.

13. Had brigade drill in a large clover field, just outside the picket line. The men were in
fine condition, well dressed, and well equipped. I kept them on the jump for two hours. Generals
Thomas and Negley were present, and were well pleased. I doubt if any brigade in the army,
can execute a greater variety of movements than mine, or go through them in better style. My
voice is excellent, I can make myself heard distinctly by a whole brigade, without becoming
hoarse by hours of exertion. Starkweather has the best voice in the army; he can be heard a
mile away.

Our division and brigade flags have been changed from light to dark blue. They look almost
like a black no-quarter flag.

We have one solitary rooster: he crows early in the morning, all day, and through the night
if it be moonlight. He mounted a stump near my door this morning, stood between the tent and
the sun, so that his shadow fell on the canvas, and crowed for half an hour at the top of his
voice. I think the scamp knew I was lying abed longer than usual, and was determined to make
me get up. He is on the most intimate terms with the soldiers, and struts about the camp with
an air of as much importance as if he wore shoulder-straps, and had been reared at West Point.
He enters the boys' tents, and inspects their quarters with all the freedom and independence
of a regularly detailed inspecting officer. He is a fine type of the soldier, proud and vain,
with a tremendous opinion of his own fighting qualities.

16. Had a grand corps drill. The line of troops, when stretched out, was over a mile in length.
The Corps was like a clumsy giant, and hours were required to execute the simplest movement.
When, for instance, we changed front, my brigade marched nearly, if not quite, a mile to take
position in the new line. The waving of banners, the flashing of sabers and bayonets, the clattering
to and fro of muddle-headed aids-de-camp on impatient steeds, the heavy rumble of artillery
wagons, the blue coats of the soldiers, the golden trappings of the field and staff, made a
grand scene for the disinterested spectator to look upon; but with the thermometer ranging
from eighty-five to one hundred, it was hard work for the soldier who bore knapsack, haversack,
and gun, and calculated to produce an unusual amount of perspiration, and not a little profanity.
Major-General Thomas guided the immense mass of men, while the operations of the divisions
were superintended by their respective commanders. I fear the brigade and regimental commanders
profited little by the drill, but I hope the major-generals learned something. The latter,
in their devotion to strategy, have evidently neglected tactics, and failed to unravel the
mysteries of the school of the battalion.

In the morning, with my division commander, I called on General Thomas, at his quarters, and
had the honor to accept from his hands the most abominable cigar it has ever been my misfortune
to attempt to smoke.

19. The army has been lying here now nearly six months. It has of late been kept pretty busy.
Sunday morning inspections, monthly inspections of troops, frequent inspections of arms and
ammunition, innumerable drills, and constant picketing.

Colonel Miller assumes command of a brigade in Johnson's division. Since the troops were at
Nashville he has been commanding what was known as the Second Brigade of Negley's division;
but the colonels of the brigade objected to having an imported colonel placed over them, and
so Miller takes command of the brigade to which his regiment is attached. He is a brave man
and a good officer. Colonel Harker's brigade has been relieved from duty at the fortifications,
and is now encamped near us, on the Liberty road.

21. Mrs. Colonel Scribner and Mrs. Colonel Griffin stopped at my tent-door for a moment this
morning. They were on horseback, and each had a child on the saddle. They were giving Mrs.
Scribner's children a little ride.

Attended divine service in the camp of the Eighty-eighth Indiana, and afterward called for
a few minutes on Colonel Moore, of the One Hundred and Fourth Illinois. On returning to my
quarters I found Colonels Hobart and Taylor awaiting me. They were about to visit Colonel T.
P. Nicholas, of the Second Kentucky Cavalry, and desired me to accompany them. We dined with
Colonel Nicholas, and, as is the custom, observed the apostolic injunction of taking something
for the stomach's sake. Toward evening we visited the field hospital, and paid our respects
to Surgeon Finley and lady. Here, much against our wills, we were compelled to empty a bottle
of sherry. On the way to our own quarters Colonel Taylor insisted upon our calling with him
to see a friend, with whom we were obliged to take a glass of ale. So that it was about dark
when we three sober gentlemen drew near to our respective quarters. We had become immensely
eloquent on the conduct of the war, and with great unanimity concluded that if Grant were to
take Vicksburg he would be entitled to our profoundest admiration and respect. Hobart, as usual,
spoke of his State as if it were a separate and independent nation, whose sons, in imitation
of LaFayette, Kosciusko and DeKalb, were devoting their best blood to the maintenance of free
government in a foreign land; while Taylor, incited thereto by this eulogy on Wisconsin, took
up the cudgel for Kentucky, and dwelt enthusiastically on the gallantry of her men and the
unrivaled beauty of her women.

When I dismounted and turned my horse over to the servant, I caught a glimpse of the signal
lights on the dome of the court-house, and was astonished to find just double the usual number,
in the act of performing a Dutch waltz. I concluded that the Signal Corps must be drunk. Saddened
by the reflection that those occupying high places, whose duty it was to let their light shine
before men, should be found in this condition of hopeless inebriety, I heaved a sigh which
might have been mistaken by the uncharitable for a hic-cough, and lay down to rest.

23. My colt had a sore eye a day or two ago, but it is now getting well. The boys pet him,
and by pinching him have taught him to bite. I fear they will spoil him. I have not ridden
him much of late. He has a way of walking on his hind legs, for which the saddles in use are
not calculated, and there is, consequently, a constant tendency, on the part of the rider,
to slip over his tail.

Captain Wells sent a colored teamster, who had just come in, tired and hungry, to his quarters
for dinner. Simon Bolivar Buckner, who now has charge of the commissary and culinary branch
of the Captain's establishment, was in the act of dining when the teamster entered the tent
and seated himself at the table. Buckner, astonished at this unceremonious intrusion, exclaimed:
"What you doin' har, sah?" "De Capin tole me fer to come and get my dinnah." "Hell," shouted
Buckner, "does de Capin 'spose I'm guiane to eat wid a d--n common nigger? Git out'er har,
till I'm done got through."

Buckner gets married every time we move camp. On last Sunday Captain Wells found him dressed
very elaborately, in white vest and clean linen, and said to him: "What's in the wind, Buckner?"
"Gwine to be married dis ebening, sah." "What time?" "Five o'clock, sah." "Can't spare you,
Buckner. Expect friends here to dine at six, and want a good dinner gotten up." "Berry well,
sah; can pos'pone de wedin', sah. Dis'pintment to lady, sah; but it'll be all right."

24. The note of preparation for a general advance sounded late last night. Reynolds moved at
4 A. M.; Rousseau at 7; our division will leave at 10. A long line of cavalry is at this moment
going out on the Manchester pike.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rain commenced falling soon after we left Murfreesboro, and continued the remainder of the
day. The roads were sloppy, and marching disagreeable. Encamped at Big creek for the night;
Rousseau and Reynolds in advance.

Before leaving Murfreesboro I handed John what I supposed to be a package of tea, and told
him to fill my canteen with cold tea. On the road I took two or three drinks, and thought it
tasted strongly of tobacco; but I accounted for it on the supposition that I had been smoking
too much, and that the tobacco taste was in my mouth, and not in the tea. After getting into
camp I drank of it again, when it occurred to me that John had neglected to cleanse the canteen
before putting the tea in, and go I began to scold him. "I did clean it, sah," retorted John.
"Well, this tea," I replied, "tastes very much like tobacco juice." "It is terbacker juice,
sah." "Why, how is that?" "You gib me paper terbacker, an' tole me hab some tea made, sah,
and I done jes as you tole me, sah." "Why you are a fool, John; did you suppose I wanted you
to make me tea out of tobacco?" "Don know, sah; dat's what you tole me, sah; done jes as you
tole me, sah."

25. Marched to Hoover's Gap. Heavy skirmishing in front during the day. Reynolds lost fifteen
killed, and quite a number wounded. A stubborn fight was expected, and our division moved up
to take part in it; but the enemy fell back. Rain has been falling most of the day. A pain
in my side admonishes me that I should have worn heavier boots.

26. Moved to Beech Grove. Cannonading in front during the whole day; but we have now become
so accustomed to the noise of the guns that it hardly excites remark. The sky is still cloudy,
and I fear we shall have more rain to-night. The boys are busy gathering leaves and twigs to
keep them from the damp ground. General Negley's quarters are a few rods to my left, and General
Thomas' just below us, at the bottom of the hill. Reynolds is four miles in advance.

27. We left Beech Grove, or Jacob's Store, this morning, at five o'clock, and conducted the
wagon train of our division through to Manchester. Rosecrans and Reynolds are here. The latter
took possession of the place two or three hours before my brigade reached it, and the former
came up three hours after we had gone into camp. We are now twelve miles from Tullahoma. The
guns are thundering off in the direction of Wartrace. Hardee's corps was driven from Fairfield
this morning. My baggage has not come, and I am compelled to sleep on the wet ground in a still
wetter overcoat.

28. My baggage arrived during the night, and this morning I changed my clothes and expected
to spend the Sabbath quietly; but about 10 A. M. I was ordered to proceed to Hillsboro, a place
eight miles from Manchester, on the old stage road to Chattanooga. When we were moving out
I met Durbin Ward, who asked me where I was going. I told him. "Why," said he, "I thought,
from the rose in your button-hole, that you were going to a wedding." "No," I replied; "but
I hope we are going to nothing more serious."

29. My position is one of great danger, being so far from support and so near the enemy. Last
night my pickets on the Tullahoma road were driven in, after a sharp fight, and my command
was put in line of battle, and so remained for an hour or more; but we were not again disturbed.
No fires were built, and the darkness was impenetrable.

At noon I received orders to proceed to Bobo's Cross-roads, and reach that point before nightfall.
There were two ways of going there: the one via Manchester was comparatively safe, although
considerably out of the direct line; the other was direct, but somewhat unsafe, because it
would take me near the enemy's front. The distance by this shorter route was eleven miles.
I chose the latter. It led through a sparsely settled, open oak country. Two regiments of Wheeler's
cavalry had been hovering about Hillsboro during the day, evidently watching our movements.
After proceeding about three miles, a dash was made upon my skirmish line, which resulted in
the killing of a lieutenant, the capture of one man, and the wounding of several others. I
instantly formed line of battle, and pushed forward as rapidly as the nature of the ground
would admit; but the enemy fell back.

About five o'clock, as we drew near Bobo's, two cannon shots and quite a brisk fire of musketry
advised us that the rebels were either still in possession of the Cross-roads or our friends
were mistaking us for the enemy. I formed line of battle, and ordered the few cavalrymen who
accompanied me to make a detour to the right and rear, and ascertain, if possible, who were
in our front. The videttes soon after reported the enemy advancing, with a squadron of cavalry
in the lead, and I put my artillery in position to give them a raking fire when they should
reach a bend of the road. At this moment when life and death seemed to hang in the balance,
and when we supposed we were in the presence of a very considerable, if not an overwhelming,
force of the enemy, a half-grown hog emerged from the woods, and ran across the road. Fifty
men sprang from the ranks and gave it chase, and before order was fully restored, and the line
readjusted, my cavalry returned with the information that the troops in front were our own.

The incidents of the last six days would fill a volume; but I have been on horseback so much,
and otherwise so thoroughly engaged, that I have been, and am now, too weary to note them down,
even if I had the conveniences at hand for so doing.

JULY, 1863.

1. My brigade, with a battalion of cavalry attached, started from Bobo's Cross-roads in the
direction of Winchester. When one mile out we picked up three deserters, who reported that
the rebels had evacuated Tullahoma, and were in full retreat. Half a mile further along I overtook
the enemy's rear guard, when a sharp fight occurred between the cavalry, resulting, I think,
in very little injury to either party. The enemy fell back a mile or more, when he opened on
us with artillery, and a sharp artillery fight took place, which lasted for perhaps thirty
minutes. Several men on both sides were killed and wounded. The enemy finally retired, and
taking a second position awaited our arrival, and opened on us again. I pushed forward in the
thick woods, and drove him from point to point for seven miles. Negley followed with the other
brigades of the division, ready to support me in case the enemy proved too strong, but I did
not need assistance. The force opposed to us simply desired to retard pursuit; and whenever
we pushed against it vigorously fell back.

2. This morning we discover that we bivouacked during the night within half a mile of a large
force of rebel cavalry and infantry. After proceeding a little way, we found the enemy in position
on the bluffs on the opposite side of Elk river, with his artillery planted so as to sweep
the road leading to the bridge. Halting my infantry and cavalry under the cover of the hill,
I sent to the rear for an additional battery, and, before the enemy seemed to be aware of what
we were doing, I got ten guns in position on the crest of the hill and commenced firing. The
enemy's cavalry and infantry, which up to this time had lined the opposite hills, began to
scatter in great confusion; but we did not have it all our own way by any means. The rebels
replied with shot and shell very vigorously, and for half an hour the fight was very interesting;
at the end of that time, however, their batteries limbered up and left on the double quick.
In the meantime, I had sent a detachment of infantry to occupy a stockade which the enemy had
constructed near the bridge, and from this position good work was done by driving off his sharpshooters.
We found the bridge partially burned, and the river too much swollen for either the men or
trains to ford it. Rousseau and Brannan, I understand, succeeded in crossing at an upper ford,
and are in hot pursuit.

3. Repaired the bridge, and crossed the river this morning; and are now bivouacking on the
ground over which the cavalry fought yesterday afternoon--quite a number of the dead were discovered
in the woods and fields. We picked up, at Elk river, an order of Brigadier-General Wharton,
commanding the troops which have been serving as the rear guard of the enemy's column. It reads
as follows:

          "COLONEL HAMAR: Retire the artillery when you
          think best. Hold the position as long as you can
          with your sharpshooters; when forced back, write
          to Crew to that effect. Anderson is on your right.
          Report all movements to me on this road.

                              "JNO. A. WHARTON, Brigadier-General.
          "July 2d, 1863."

I have been almost constantly in the saddle, and have hardly slept a quiet three hours since
we started on this expedition. My brigade has picked up probably a hundred prisoners.

4. At twelve o'clock, noon, my brigade was ordered to take the advance, and make the top of
the Cumberland before nightfall; proceeding four miles, we reached the base of the mountain,
and began the ascent. The road was exceedingly rough, and the rebels had made it impassable,
for artillery, by rolling great rocks into it and felling trees across it. The axmen were ordered
up, and while they were clearing away the obstructions I rode ahead with the cavalry to the
summit, and some four miles on the ridge beyond. In the meantime, General Negley ordered the
artillery and infantry to return to the foot of the mountain, where we are now encamped.

5. Since we left Murfreesboro (June 24) rain has been falling almost constantly; to-day it
has been coming down in torrents, and the low grounds around us are overflowed.

Rousseau's division is encamped near us on the left, Reynolds in the rear.

The other day, while sitting on the fence by the roadside smoking my pipe, waiting for my troops
to get in readiness to march, some one cried out, "Here is a philosopher," and General Reynolds
rode up and shook my hand very cordially.

My brigade has been so fortunate, thus far, as to win the confidence of the commanding generals.
It has, during the last week, served as a sort of a cow-catcher for Negley's division. At Elk
river General Thomas rode up, while I was making my dispositions to attack the enemy, and approved
what I had done and was doing.

We hear that the Army of the East has won a decisive victory in Pennsylvania. This is grand!
It will show the rebels that it will not do to put their feet on free soil. Now if Grant succeeds
in taking Vicksburg, and Rosecrans drives Bragg beyond the Tennessee, the country will have
reason to rejoice with exceeding great joy.

6. An old lady, whose home is on the side of the mountain, called on me to-day and said she
had not had a cup of coffee since the war commenced. She was evidently very poor; and, although
we had no coffee to spare, I gave her enough to remind her again of the taste.

Our soldiers have been making a clean sweep of the hogs, sheep, and poultry on the route. For
the rich rebels I have no sympathy, but the poor we must pity. The war cuts off from them entirely
the food which, in the best of times, they acquire with great labor and difficulty. The forage
for the army horses and mules, and we have an immense number, consists almost wholly of wheat
in the sheaf--wheat that has been selling for ten dollars per bushel in Confederate money.
I have seen hundreds of acres of wheat in the sheaf disappear in an hour. Rails have been burned
without stint, and numberless fields of growing corn left unprotected. However much suffering
this destruction of property may entail on the people of this section, I am inclined to think
the effect will be good. It will bring them to a realizing sense of the loss sustained when
they threw aside the protecting shield of the old Constitution, and the security which they
enjoyed in the Union.

The season's crop of wheat, corn, oats, and hogs would have been of the utmost value to the
Confederate army; when destroyed, there will be nothing in middle Tennessee to tempt it back.

7. Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Tennesseeans have deserted from the Southern army and are
now wandering about in the mountains, endeavoring to get to their homes. They are mostly conscripted
men. My command has gathered up hundreds, and the mountains and coves in this vicinity are
said to be full of them.

It rains incessantly. We moved to Decherd and encamped on a ridge, but are now knee-deep in
mud and surrounded by water.

This morning a hundred guns echoed among the mountain gorges over the glad intelligence from
the East and South: Meade has won a famous victory, and Grant has taken Vicksburg.

Stragglers and deserters from Bragg's army continue to come in. It is doubtless unfortunate
for the country that rain and bad roads prevented our following up Bragg closely and forcing
him to fight in the present demoralized condition of his army. We would have been certain of
a decisive victory.

9. Dined with General Negley. Colonels Stoughton and Surwell, brigade commanders, were present.
The dinner was excellent; soups, punch, wine, blackberries were on the table; and, to men who
for a fortnight had been feeding on hard crackers and salt pork, seemed delicious. The General
got his face poisoned while riding through the woods on the 2d instant, and he now looks like
an old bruiser.

McCook, whose corps lies near Winchester, called while we were at Negley's; he looks, if possible,
more like a blockhead than ever, and it is astonishing to me that he should be permitted to
retain command of a corps for a single hour. He brought us cheering information, however. The
intelligence received from the East and South a few days ago has been confirmed, and the success
of our armies even greater than first reports led us to believe.

10. We have a cow at brigade head-quarters. Blackberries are very abundant. The sky has cleared,
but the Cumberland mountains are this morning covered by a thin veil of mist. Supply trains
arrived last night.

11. We hear nothing of the rebel army. Rosecrans, doubtless, knows its whereabouts, but his
subordinates do not. A few of the enemy may be lingering in the vicinity of Stevenson and Bridgeport,
but the main body is, doubtless, beyond the Tennessee. The rebel sympathizers here acknowledge
that Bragg has been outgeneraled. Our cavalry started on the 9th instant for Huntsville, Athens,
and Decatur, and I have no doubt these places were re-occupied without opposition.

The rebel cavalry is said to be utterly worn out, and for this reason has performed a very
insignificant part in recent operations.

The fall of Vicksburg, defeat of Lee, and retreat of Bragg, will, doubtless, render the adoption
of an entirely new plan necessary. How long it will take to perfect this, and get ready for
a concerted movement, I have no idea.

12. Our soldiers, I am told, have been entering the houses of private citizens, taking whatever
they saw fit, and committing many outrages. I trust, however, they have not been doing so badly
as the people would have us believe. The latter are all disposed to grumble; and if a hungry
soldier squints wistfully at a chicken, some one is ready to complain that the fowls are in
danger, and that they are the property of a lone woman, a widow, with nothing under the sun
to eat but chickens. In nine cases out of ten the husbands of these lone women are in the Confederate
army; but still they are women, and should be treated well.

14. The brigade baker has come up, and will have his oven in operation this afternoon; so we
shall have fresh bread again.

General Rosecrans will allow no ladies to come to the front. This would seem to be conclusive
that no gentlemen will be permitted to go to the rear.

16. We have blackberries and milk for breakfast, dinner, and supper. To-night we had hot gingerbread
also. I have eaten too much, and feel uncomfortable.

Meade's victory has been growing small by degrees and beautifully less; but the success of
Grant has improved sufficiently on first reports to make it all up. Our success in this department,
although attended with little loss of life, has been very gratifying. We have extended our
lines over the most productive region of Tennessee, and have possession also of all North Alabama,
a rich tract of country, the loss of which must be sorely felt by the rebels.

18. To-night I received a bundle of Northern papers, and among others the Union (?) Register.
While reading it I felt almost glad that I was not at home, for certainly I should be very
uncomfortable if compelled to listen every day to such treasonable attacks upon the Administration,
sugar-coated though they be with hypocritical professions of devotion to the Union, the Constitution,
and the soldier. How supremely wicked these men are, who, for their own personal advantage,
or for party success, use every possible means to bring the Administration into disrespect,
and withhold from it what, at this time, it so greatly needs, the hearty support and co-operation
of the people. The simple fact that abuse of the party in power encourages the rebels, not
only by evincing disaffection and division in the North, but by leading them to believe, also,
that their conduct is justifiable, should, of itself, be sufficient to deter honest and patriotic
men from using such language as may be found in the opposition press. The blood of many thousand
soldiers will rest upon the peace party, and certainly the blood of many misguided people at
the North must be charged to the same account. The draft riots of New York and elsewhere these
croakers and libelers are alone responsible for. After the war has ended there will be abundant
time to discuss the manner in which it has been conducted. Certainly quarreling over it now
can only tend to the defeat and disgrace of our arms.

We hardly hear of politics in the army, and I certainly did not dream before that there was
so much bitterness of feeling among the people in the North. Republicans, Democrats, and every
body else think nearly alike here. I know of none who sympathize with the so-called peace party.
It is universally damned, for there is no soldier so ignorant that he does not know and feel
that this party is prolonging the war by stimulating his enemies. A child can see this. The
rebel papers, which every soldier occasionally obtains, prove it beyond a peradventure.

20. Mrs. General Negley, it appears, has been allowed to visit her husband. Mrs. General McCook
is said to be coming.

Received a public document, in which I find all the reports of the battle of Stone river, and,
I am sorry to say, my report is the poorest and most unsatisfactory of the whole lot. The printer,
as if for the purpose of aggravating me beyond endurance, has, by an error of punctuation,
transformed what I considered a very considerable and creditable action, into an inconsiderable
skirmish. The report should read:

          "On the second and third days my brigade was in
          front, a portion of the time skirmishing. On the
          night of January 3d, two regiments, led by myself,
          drove the enemy from their breastworks in the edge
          of the woods."

Thus, by taking the last word of one sentence and making it the first word of another, the
intelligent compositor belittles a night fight for which I thought my command deserved no inconsiderable
credit. I regret now that I did not take the time to make an elaborate report of the operations
of my brigade, describing all the terrible situations in which it had been placed, and dwelling
with special emphasis on the courage and splendid fighting of the men. In contrast with my
stupidly modest report, is that of Brigadier-General Spears. He does not hesitate to claim
for his troops all the credit of the night engagement referred to; and yet while my men stormed
the barricade of logs, and cleaned out the woods, his were lying on their faces fully two hundred
yards in the rear, and I should never have known that they were even that near the enemy if
his raw soldiers had not fired an occasional shot into us from behind. If General Spears was
with his men, he must have known that his report of their action on that occasion was utterly
untruthful. If, however, as I apprehend, he was behind the rifle pits, six hundred yards in
the rear, he might, like thousands of others, who were distant spectators of the scene, have
honestly conceived that his troops were doing the fighting. General Rousseau's report contradicts
his statements, and in a meager way accords the credit to my regiments.

Officers are more selfish, dishonest, and grasping in their struggle for notoriety than the
miser for gold. They lay claim to every thing within reach, whether it belongs to them or not.
I know absolutely that many of the reports in the volume before me are base exaggerations--romances,
founded upon the smallest conceivable amount of fact. They are simply elaborate essays, which
seek to show that the author was a little braver, a little more skillful in the management
of his men, and a little worthier than anybody else. I know of one officer who has great credit,
in official reports and in the newspapers, for a battle in which he did not participate at
all. In fact, he did not reach the field until after the enemy had not only been repulsed,
but retired out of sight; and yet he has not the manliness to correct the error, and give the
honor to whom it is due.

21. The day has been a pleasant one. The night is delightful. The new moon favors us with just
sufficient light to reveal fully the great oaks, the white tents, and the shadowy outline of
the Cumberland mountains. The pious few of the Eighty-eighth Indiana, assembled in a booth
constructed of branches, are breathing out their devotional inspirations and aspirations, in
an old hymn which carries us back to the churches and homes of the civilized world, or, as
the boys term it, "God's country."

Katydids from a hundred trees are vigorous and relentless in their accusations against poor
Katy. That was a pleasant conceit of Holmes, "What did poor Katy do?" I never appreciated it
fully until I came into the country of the katydids.

Two trains, laden with forage, commissary, and quartermaster stores, are puffing away at the depot.

General Rosecrans will move to Winchester, two miles from us, to-morrow.

No one ever more desired to look again on his wife and babies than I; but, alack and alas!
I am bound with a chain which seems to tighten more and more each day, and draw me further
and further from where I desire to be. But I trust the time will soon come when I shall be
free again.

Morgan's command has come to grief in Ohio. I trust he may be captured himself. The papers
say Basil Duke is a prisoner. If so, the spirit of the great raider is in our hands, and it
matters but little, perhaps, what becomes of the carcass.

A soldier of the Forty-second Indiana, who ran away from the battle of Stone river, had his
head shaved and was drummed out of camp to-day. David Walker, Paul Long, and Charley Hiskett,
of the Third Ohio, go with him to Nashville, where he is to be confined in military prison
until the end of the war.

Shaving the head and drumming out of camp is a fearful punishment. I could not help pitying
the poor fellow, as with carpet-sack in one hand and hat in the other he marched crest-fallen
through the camps, to the music of the "Rogue's March." Death and oblivion would have been
less severe and infinitely more desirable.

25. General Rosecrans, although generally supposed to be here, has been, it is said, absent
for some days. It is intimated that he has gone to Washington. If it be true, he has flanked
the newspaper men by a wonderful burst of strategy. He must have gone through disguised as
an old woman--a very ugly old woman with a tremendous nose--otherwise these newspaper pickets
would have arrested and put him in the papers forthwith. They are more vigilant than the rebels,
and terribly intent upon finding somebody to talk about, to laud to the skies, or abuse in
the most fearful manner, for they seldom do things by halves, unless it be telling the truth.
They have a marvelous distaste for facts, and use no more of them than are absolutely necessary
to string their guesses and imaginings upon.

My colt has just whinnied. He is gay as a lark, and puts Davy, the hostler, through many evolutions
unknown to the cavalry service. The other day Davy had him out for exercise, and when he came
rearing and charging back, I said: "How does he behave to-day, Davy?" "Mighty rambunctious,
sah; he's gettin' bad, sah."

Major James Connelly, One Hundred and Twenty-third Illinois, called. His regiment is mounted
and in Wilder's brigade. It participated in the engagement at Hoover's Gap. When my brigade
was at Hillsboro, Connelly's regiment accompanied Wilder to this place (Decherd). The veracious
correspondent reported that Wilder, on that expedition, had destroyed the bridge here and done
great injury to the railroad, permanently interrupting communication between Bridgeport and
Tullahoma; but, in fact, the bridge was not destroyed, and trains on the railroad were only
delayed two hours. The expedition succeeded, however, in picking up a few stragglers and horses.

26. General Stanley has returned from Huntsville, bringing with him about one thousand North
Alabama negroes. This is a blow at the enemy in the right place. Deprived of slave labor, the
whites will be compelled to send home, or leave at home, white men enough to cultivate the
land and keep their families from starving.

27. Adjutant Wilson visited Rousseau's division at Cowan, and reports the return of Starkweather
from Wisconsin, with the stars. This gentleman has been mourning over the ingratitude of Republics
ever since the battle of Perryville; but henceforth he will, doubtless, feel better.

A court-martial has been called for the trial of Colonel A. B. Moore, One Hundred and Fourth
Illinois. Some ill-feeling in his regiment has led one of his officers to prefer charges against
him.

28. General Thomas is an officer of the regular army; the field is his home; the tent his house,
and war his business. He regards rather coolly, therefore, the applications of volunteer officers
for leaves of absence. Why should they not be as contented as himself? He does not seem to
consider that they suddenly dropped business, every thing, in fact, to hasten to the field.
But, then, on second thought, I incline to the opinion that the old man is right. Half the
army would be at home if leaves and furloughs could be had for the asking.

29. Lieutenant Orr received notice yesterday of his appointment as captain in the subsistence
department, and last night opened a barrel of beer and stood treat. I did not join the party
until about ten o'clock, and then Captain Hewitt, of the battery, the story-teller of the brigade,
was in full blast, and the applause was uproarious. He was telling of a militia captain of
Fentress county, Tennessee, who called out his company upon the supposition that we were again
at war with Great Britain; that Washington had been captured by the invaders, and the arch-iv-es
destroyed. A bystander questioned the correctness of the Captain's information, when he became
very angry, and, producing a newspaper, said: "D--n you, sir, do you think I can't read, sir?"
The man thus interrogated looked over the paper, saw that it announced the occupation of Washington
by the British, but called the attention of the excited militiaman to the fact that the date
was 1812. "So it is," said the old captain; "I did not notice the date. But, d--n me, sir,
the paper just come. Go on with the drill, boys." This story was told to illustrate the fact
that the people of many counties in Tennessee were behind the times.

It would take too much time to refer, even briefly, to all the stories related, and I will
allude simply to a LONDON GHOST STORY, which Captain Halpin, an Irishman, of the Fifteenth
Kentucky, undertook to tell. The gallant Captain was in the last stages of inebriety, and laid
the scene of his London ghost story in Ireland. Steadying himself in his seat with both hands,
and with a tongue rather too thick to articulate clearly, he introduced us to his ancestors
for twenty generations back. It was a famous old Irish family, and among the collateral branches
were the O'Tooles, O'Rourkes, and O'Flahertys. They had in them the blood of the Irish kings,
and accomplished marvelous feats in the wars of those times. And so we staggered with the Captain
from Dublin to Belfast, and thence made sorties into all the provinces on chase of the London
ghost, until finally our leader wound up with a yawn and went to sleep. The party, disappointed
at this sudden and unsatisfactory termination of the London ghost story, took a mug of beer
all around, and then one gentleman, drunker probably than the others, or possibly unwilling,
after all the time spent, to allow the ghost to escape, punched the Captain in the ribs and
shouted: "Captain--Captain Halpin, you said it was a London ghost story; maybe you'll find
the ghost in London, for I'll be d--d if it's in Ireland!" The Captain was too far gone to
profit by the suggestion.

30. This evening General Rosecrans, on his way to Winchester, stopped for a few minutes at
the station. He shook hands with me, and asked how I liked the water at the foot of the mountains,
and about the health of my troops. I told him the water was good, and that the boys were encamped
on high ground and healthy. "Yes," he replied, "and we'll take higher ground in a few days."

On the march to Tullahoma I had my brigade stretched along a ridge to guard against an attack
from the direction of Wartrace. General Rosecrans passed through my lines, and was making some
inquiries, when I stepped out: "Hello," said he, "here is the young General himself. You've
got a good ridge. Who lives in that house? Find a place for Negley on your right or left. Send
me a map of this ridge. How do ye do?"

31. Met General Turchin for the first time since he was before our court-martial at Huntsville.
He appeared to be considerably cast down in spirit. He had just been relieved from his cavalry
command, and was on his way to General Reynolds to take command of a brigade of infantry. General
Crook, hitherto in command of a brigade, succeeds Turchin as commander of a division. In short,
Crook and Turchin just exchange places. The former is a graduate of the West Point Military
Academy, and is an Ohio man, who has not, I think, greatly distinguished himself thus far.
He has been in Western Virginia most of the time, and came to Murfreesboro after the battle
of Stone river.

General R. B. Mitchell is, with his command, in camp a little over a mile from us. He is in
good spirits, and dwells with emphasis on the length and arduousness of the marches made by
his troops since he left Murfreesboro. The labor devolving upon him as the commander of a division
of cavalry is tremendous; and yet I was rejoiced to find his physical system had stood the
strain well. The wear and tear upon his intellect, however, must have been very great.

AUGUST, 1863.

2. Rode with Colonel Taylor to Cowan; dined with Colonel Hobart, and spent the day very agreeably.
Returning we called on Colonel Scribner, remained an hour, and reached Decherd after nightfall.
My request for leave of absence was lying on the table approved and recommended by Negley and
Thomas, but indorsed not granted by Rosecrans.

General Rousseau has left, and probably will not return. The best of feeling has not existed
between him and the commanding general for some time past. Rousseau has had a good division,
but probably thought he should have a corps. This, however, is not the cause of the breach.
It has grown out of small matters--things too trifling to talk over, think of, or explain,
and yet important enough to create a coldness, if not an open rupture. Rosecrans is marvelously
popular with the men.

3. The papers state that General R. B. Mitchell has gone home on sick leave. Poor fellow! he
must have been taken suddenly, for when I saw him, a day or two ago, he was the picture of
health. It is wonderful to me how a fellow as fat as Bob can come the sick dodge so successfully.
He can get sick at a moment's notice.

4. Called on General Thomas; then rode over to Winchester. Saw Garfield at department head-quarters.
He said he regretted very much being compelled to refuse my application for a leave. Told him
I expected to command this department soon, and when I got him and a few others, including
Rosecrans and Thomas, under my thumb, they would obtain no favors. I should insist not only
upon their remaining in camp, but upon their wives remaining out.

In company with Colonel Mihalotzy I called on Colonel Burke, Tenth Ohio, and drank a couple
of bottles of wine with him and his spiritual adviser, Father O'Higgin. Had a very agreeable
time. The Colonel pressed us to remain for dinner; but we pleaded an engagement, and afterward
obtained a very poor meal at the hotel for one dollar each.

The Board for the examination of applicants for commissions in colored regiments, of which
I have the honor to be Chairman, met, organized, and adjourned to convene at nine o'clock to-morrow.
Colonel Parkhurst, Ninth Michigan, and Colonel Stanley, Eighteenth Ohio, are members.

I am anxious to go home; but it is not possible for me to get away. Almost every officer in
the army desires to go, and every conceivable excuse and argument are urged. This man is sick;
another's house has burned, and he desires to provide for his family; another has lawsuits
coming off involving large sums, and his presence during the trial is necessary to save him
from great loss; still another has deeds to make out, and an immense property interest to look
after.

6. This is the day appointed by the President for thanksgiving and prayer. The shops in Winchester
are closed.

Colonel Parkhurst has obtained a leave, and will go home on Monday.

7. Captain Wilson and Lieutenant Ellsworth arose rather late this morning, and found a beer
barrel protruding from the door of their tent, properly set up on benches, with a flaming placard
over it:

              "NEW GROCERY!!
            WILSON & ELLSWORTH.
          Fresh Beer, 3c. a Glass.
              Give us a call."

Later in the day a grand presentation ceremony took place. All the members of the staff and
hangers-on about head-quarters were gathered under the oaks; Lieutenant Calkins, One Hundred
and Fourth Illinois, was sent for, and, when he appeared, Lieutenant Ellsworth proceeded to
read to him the following letter:

                            "OTTOWA, ILLINOIS, July 20, 1863.

          "LIEUTENANT W. W. CALKINS--Sir: Your old friends
          of Ottowa, as a slight testimonial of their
          respect for you, and admiration for those
          chivalrous instincts which, when the banner of
          beauty and glory was assailed by traitorous
          legions, induced you to spring unhesitatingly to
          its defense, have the honor to present you a
          beautiful field-glass. Trusting that, by its
          assistance, you will be able to see through your
          enemies, and ultimately find your way to the arms
          of your admiring fellow-citizens, we have the
          honor to subscribe ourselves,

                "Your most obedient servants,
                                PETER BROWN,
                                JOHN SMITH,
                                THOMAS JONES, and others."

The box containing the gift was carefully opened, and the necks and upper parts of two whisky
bottles, fastened together by a piece of wood, taken out and delivered in due form to the Lieutenant.
He seemed greatly surprised, and for a few minutes addressed the donors in a very emphatic
and uncomplimentary way; but finding this only added to the merriment of the party, he finally
cooled down, and, lifting the field-glass to his eyes, leveled it upon the staff, and remarked
that they appeared to be thirsty. This, of course, was hailed as undeniable evidence that the
glass was perfect, and Lieutenant Calkins was heartily congratulated on his good luck, and
on the proof which the testimonial afforded of the high estimation in which he was held by
the people of his native town. Many of his brother officers, in their friendly ardor, shook
him warmly by the hand.

8. Hewitt's battery has been transferred to the Corps of Engineers and Mechanics, and Bridges'
battery, six guns, assigned to me. I gain two guns and many men by the exchange.

Our Board grinds away eight or nine hours a day, and turns out about the usual proportion of
wheat and chaff. The time was when we thought it would be impossible to obtain good officers
for colored regiments. Now we feel assured that they will have as good, if not better, officers
than the white regiments. From sergeants applying for commissions we are able to select splendid
men; strong, healthy, well informed, and of considerable military experience. In fact, we occasionally
find a non-commissioned officer who is better qualified to command a regiment than nine-tenths
of the colonels. I certainly know colonels who could not obtain a recommendation from this
Board for a second lieutenancy.

Saw General Garfield yesterday; he was in bed sick. I have no fears of his immediate dissolution;
in fact, I think he could avail himself of a twenty-day leave. I know if I were no worse than
he appears to be, I would, with the permission of the general commanding, undertake to ride
the whole distance home on horseback, and swim the rivers. In a little over a week I think
my wife would see me, and the black horse, followed by the pepper-and-salt colt, charging up
to the front door in such style as would remind her of the days of chivalry and the knights
of the olden time. I should cry out in thunder tones, "Ho! within! Unbar the door!" The colt
would kick up his heels with joy at sight of the grass in the yard, while the black would champ
his bit with impatience to get into a comfortable stall once more. Altogether the sight would
be worth seeing; but it will not be seen.

The Board holds its sessions in the office of an honorable Mr. Turney, who left on our approach
for a more congenial clime, and left suddenly. His letters and papers are lying around us in
great confusion and profusion. Among these we have discovered a document bearing the signatures
of Jeff. Davis, John Mason, Pierre Soule, and others, pledging themselves to resist, by any
and every means, the admission of California, unless it came in with certain boundaries which
they prescribed. The document was gotten up in Washington, and Colonel Parkhurst says it is
the original contract.

Dined with Colonel D. H. Gilmer, Thirty-eighth Illinois. Dinner splendid; corn, cabbage, beans;
peach, apple, and blackberry pie; with buttermilk and sweetmilk. It was a grand dinner, served
on a snow-white table-cloth. Where the Colonel obtained all these delicacies I can not imagine.
He is an out-and-out Abolitionist, and possibly the negroes had favored him somewhat.

Colonel Gilmer is delighted to find the country coming around to his ideas. He believes the
Lord, who superintends the affairs of nations, will give us peace in good time, and that time
will be when the institution of slavery has been rooted up and destroyed. He is a Kentuckian
by birth, and says he has kinfolks every-where. He is the only man he knows of who can find
a cousin in every town he goes to.

9. Dined with Colonel Taylor. Colonels Hobart, Nicholas, and Major Craddock were present. After
dinner we adjourned to my quarters, where we spent the afternoon. Hobart dilated upon his adventures
at New Orleans and elsewhere, under Abou Ben Butler. He says Butler is a great man, but a d--d
scoundrel. I have heard Hobart say something like this at least a thousand times, and am pleased
to know that his testimony on this point is always clear, decisive, and uncontradictory.

My visitors are gone. The cars are bunting against each other at the depot. The katydids are
piping away on the old, old story. The trees look like great shadows, and unlike the substantial
oaks they really are. The camps are dark and quiet. This is all I can say of the night without.

In a little booth made of cedar boughs is a table, on which sputters a solitary tallow candle,
in a stick not remarkable for polish. This light illuminates the booth, and reveals to the
observer--if there be one, which is very unlikely, for those who usually observe have in all
probability retired--a wash basin, a newspaper, a penknife, which originally had two blades,
but at present has but one, and that one very dull, a gentleman of say thirty, possibly thirty-five,
two steel pens, rusty with age, an inkstand, and one miller, which miller has repeatedly dashed
his head against the wick of the candle and discovered that the operation led to unsatisfactory
results. Wearied, disappointed, and disheartened, the miller now sits quietly on the table,
mourning, doubtless, over the unpleasant lesson which experience has taught him. His head is
now wiser; but, alas! his wings are shorter than they were, and of what use is his head without
wings? He feels very like the man who made a dash for fame, and fell wounded and bleeding on
the field, or the child who, for the first time, discovers that all is not gold that glitters.
The gentleman referred to--and I trust it may be no stretch of the verities to call him a gentleman--leans
over the table writing. He has an abundant crop of dark hair on his head, under his chin, and
on his upper lip. He is not just now troubled with a superabundance of flesh, or, in other
words, no one would suspect him of being fat. On the contrary, he might remind one of the lean
kine, or the prodigal son who had been feeding on husks. He is wide awake at this late hour
of the night, from which I conclude he has slept more or less during the day. No one, to look
at this gentleman, would take him to be a remarkable man; in fact, his most intimate friends
could not find it in their hearts to bring such an accusation against him. His face is browned
by exposure, and his blue eyes look quite dark, or would do so if there were sufficient light
to see them. When he straightens up--and he generally straightens when up at all--he is five
feet eleven, or thereabouts. His appetite is good, and his education is of that superior kind
which enables him, without apparent effort, to misspell three-fourths of the words in the English
language; in fact, at this present moment he is holding an imaginary discussion with his wife,
who has written him that the underclothing for gentlemen's feet should be spelled s-o-c-k-s,
and not "s-o-x". He begs leave to differ with her, which he would probably not dare to do were
she not hundreds of miles away; and he argues the matter in this way: S-o-x, o-x, f-o-x--the
termination sounds alike in all. Now how absurd it would be to insist that ox should be spelled
o-c-k-s, or fox f-o-c-k-s. The commonest kind of sense teaches one that the old lady is in
error, and "sox" clearly correct. Much learning hath evidently made her mad. Having satisfied
himself about this matter, he takes a photograph from an inside pocket; it is that of his wife.
He makes another dive, and brings out one of his children; then he lights a laurel-wood pipe,
and, as the white smoke curls about his head and vanishes, his thoughts skip off five hundred
miles or less, to a community of sensible, industrious, quiet folks, and when he finally awakes
from the reverie and looks about him upon the beggarly surroundings--he does not swear, for
he bethinks him in time that swearing would do no good.

10. Colonel Hobart, Twenty-first Wisconsin, and Colonel Hays, Tenth Kentucky, have been added
to the Board--the former at my request.

11. To-day I dined with a Wisconsin friend of Colonel Hobart's; had a good dinner, Scotch ale
and champagne, and a very agreeable time. Colonel Hegg, the dispenser of hospitalities, is
a Norwegian by birth, a Republican, a gentleman who has held important public positions in
Wisconsin, and who stands well with the people. In the course of the table talk I learned something
of the history of my friend Hobart. He is an old wheel-horse of the Democratic party of his
State; was a candidate for governor a few years ago, and held joint debates with Randall and
Carl Schurz. He is the father of the Homestead Law, which has been adopted by so many States,
and was for many years the leader of the House of Representatives of Wisconsin. All this I
gathered from Colonel Hegg, for Hobart seldom, if ever, talks about himself. I imagine that
even the most polished orator would obtain but little, if any, advantage over Hobart in a discussion
before the people. He has the imagination, the information, and the oratorical fury in discussion
which are likely to captivate the masses. He was at one time opposed to arming the negroes;
but now that he is satisfied they will fight, he is in favor of using them.

To-night Colonels Hays and Hobart held quite an interesting debate on the policy of arming
colored men, and emancipating those belonging to rebels. Hays, who, by the way, is an honest
man and a gallant soldier, presented the Kentucky view of the matter, and his arguments, evidently
very weak, were thoroughly demolished by Hobart. I think Colonel Hays felt, as the controversy
progressed, that his position was untenable, and that his hostility to the President's proclamation
sprang from the prejudice in which he had been educated, rather than from reason and justice.

12. Old Tom, known in camp as the veracious nigger, because of a "turkle" story which he tells,
is just coming along as I wait a moment for the breakfast bell. The "turkle," which Tom caught
in some creek in Alabama, had two hundred and fifty eggs in "him." "Yas, sah, two hunder an'
fifty."

Tom has peculiar notions about certain matters, and they are not, by any means, complimentary
to the white man. He says: "It jus' 'pears to me dat Adam was a black man, sah, an' de Lord
he scar him till he got white, cos he was a sinner, sah."

"Tom, you scoundrel, how dare you slander the white man in that way?"

"'Pears to me dat way; hab to tell de truf, sah; dat's my min'. Men was 'riginally black; but
de Lord he scare Adam till he got white; dat's de reasonable supposition, sah. Do a man's har
git black when he scared, sah? No, sah, it gits white. Did you ebber know a man ter get black
when he's scard, sah? No, sah, he gits white."

"That does seem to be a knock-down argument, Tom."

"Yas, sah, I've argied with mor'n a hunder white men, sah, an' they can't never git aroun dat
pint. When yer strip dis subjec ob prejdice, an' fetch to bar on it de light o' reason, sah,
yer can 'rive at but one 'clusion, sah. De Lord he rode into de garden in chariot of fire,
sah, robed wid de lightnin', sah, thunder bolt in his han', an' he cried ADAM, in de voice
of a airthquake, sah, an' de 'fec on Adam was powerful, sah. Dat's my min', sah." And so Tom
goes on his way, confident that the first man was black, and that another white man has been
vanquished in argument.

13. The weather continues oppressively hot. The names of candidates for admission to the corps
d'Afrique continue to pour in. The number has swelled to eight hundred. We begin our labors
at nine, adjourn a few minutes for lunch, and then continue our work until nearly six.

16. We move at ten o'clock A. M. Had a heavy rain yesterday and a fearful wind. The morning,
however, is clear, and atmosphere delightful.

Our Board has examined one hundred and twenty men. Perhaps forty have been recommended for
commissions.

The present movement will, doubtless, be a very interesting one. A few days will take us to
the Tennessee, and thereafter we shall operate on new ground. Georgia will be within a few
miles of us, the long-suffering and long-coveted East Tennessee on our left, Central Alabama
to our front and right. A great struggle will undoubtedly soon take place, for it is not possible
that the rebels will give us a foothold south of the Tennessee until compelled to do it.

21. We are encamped on the banks of Crow creek, three miles northerly from Stevenson. The table
on which I write is under the great beech trees. Colonel Hobart is sitting near studying Casey.
The light of the new moon is entirely excluded by foliage. On the right and left the valley
is bounded by ranges of mountains eight hundred or a thousand feet high. Crow creek is within
a few feet of me; in fact, the sand under my feet was deposited by its waters. The army extends
along the Tennessee, from opposite Chattanooga to Bellefonte. Before us, and just beyond the
river, rises a green-mountain wall, whose summit, apparently as uniform as a garden hedge,
seems to mingle with the clouds. Beyond this are the legions of the enemy, whose signal lights
we see nightly.

22. Our Board has resumed its sessions at the Alabama House, Stevenson. The weather is intensely
hot. Father Stanley stripped off his coat and groaned. Hobart's face was red as the rising
sun, and the anxious candidates for commissions did not certainly resemble cucumbers for coolness.

Hobart rides a very poor horse--poor in flesh, I mean; but he entertains the most exalted opinion
of the beast. This morning, as we rode from camp, I thought I would please him by referring
to his horse in a complimentary way. Said I: "Colonel, your horse holds his own mighty well."
His face brightened, and I continued: "He hasn't lost a bone since I have known him." This
nettled him, and he began to badger me about an unsuccessful attempt which I made some time
ago to get him to taste a green persimmon. Hobart has a good education, is fluent in conversation,
and in discussion gets the better of me without difficulty. All I can do, therefore, is to
watch my opportunity to give him an occasional thrust as best I can. Father Stanley is slow,
destitute of either education or wit, and examines applicants like a demagogue fishes for votes.

Brigadier-General Jeff. C. Davis and Colonel Hegg called to-day. Davis is, I think, not quite
so tall as I am, but a shade heavier. Met Captain Gaunther. He has been relieved from duty
here, and ordered to Washington. He is an excellent officer, and deserves a higher position
than he holds at present. I thought, from the very affectionate manner with which he clung
to my hand and squeezed it, that possibly, in taking leave of his friends, he had burdened
himself with that "oat" which is said to be one too many. Hobart says that Scribner calls him
Hobart up to two glasses, and further on in his cups ycleps him Hogan.

Wood had a bout with the enemy at Chattanooga yesterday; he on the north side and they on the
south side of the river. Johnson is said to have reinforced Bragg, and the enemy is supposed
to be strong in our front. Rosecrans was at Bridgeport yesterday looking over the ground, when
a sharpshooter blazed away at him, and put a bullet in a tree near which the General and his
son were standing.

24. Deserters are coming in almost every day. They report that secret societies exist in the
rebel army whose object is the promotion of desertion. Eleven men from one company arrived
yesterday. Not many days ago a Confederate officer swam the river and gave himself up. For
some time past the pickets of the two armies have not been firing at each other; but yesterday
the rebels gave notice that they should commence again, as the "Yanks were becoming too d--n
thick."

26. To-day we were examining a German who desired to be recommended for a field officer. "How
do you form an oblique square, sir?" "Black square? Black square?" exclaimed the Dutchman;
"I dush not know vot you means by de black square."

As I write the moon shines down upon me through an opening in the branches of the beech forest
in which we are encamped, and the objects about me, half seen and half hidden, in some way
suggest the half-remembered and half-forgotten incidents of childhood.

How often, when a boy, have I dreamed of scenes similar to those through which I have passed
in the last two years! Knightly warriors, great armies on the march and in camp, the skirmish,
the tumult and thunder of battle, were then things of the imagination; but now they have become
familiar items of daily life. Then a single tap of the drum or note of the bugle awakened thoughts
of the old times of chivalry, and regrets that the days of glory had passed away. Now we have
martial strains almost every hour, and are reminded only of the various duties of our every-day
life.

As we went to Stevenson this morning, Hobart caught a glimpse of a colored man coming toward
us. It suggested to him a hobby which he rides now every day, and he commenced his oration
by saying, in his declamatory way: "The negro is the coming man." "Yes," I interrupted, "so
I see, and he appears to have his hat full of peaches;" and so the coming man had.

28. Rode to the river with Hobart and Stanley. The rebel pickets were lying about in plain
view on the other side. Just before our arrival quite a number of them had been bathing. The
outposts of the two armies appear still to be on friendly terms. "Yesterday," a soldier said
to me, "one of our boys crossed the river, talked with the rebs for some time, and returned."

29. The band is playing "Yankee Doodle," and the boys break into an occasional cheer by way
of indorsement. There is something defiant in the air of "Doodle" as he blows away on the soil
of the cavaliers, which strikes a noisy chord in the breast of Uncle Sam's nephews, and the
demonstrations which follow are equivalent to "Let 'er rip," "Go in old boy."

Colonel Hobart's emphatic expression is "egad." He told me to-day of a favorite horse at home,
which would follow him from place to place as he worked in the garden, keeping his nose as
near to him as possible. His wife remarked to him one day: "Egad, husband, if you loved me
as well as you do that horse, I should be perfectly happy."

"Are you quite sure Mrs. Hobart said 'egad,' Colonel?"

"Well, no, I wouldn't like to swear to that."

This afternoon Colonels Stanley, Hobart, and I rode down to the Tennessee to look at the pontoon
bridge which has been thrown across the river. On the way we met Generals Rosecrans, McCook,
Negley, and Garfield. The former checked up, shook hands, and said: "How d'ye do?" Garfield
gave us a grip which suggested "vote right, vote early." Negley smiled affably, and the cavalcade
moved on. We crossed the Tennessee on the bridge of boats, and rode a few miles into the country
beyond. Not a gun was fired as the bridge was being laid. Davis' division is on the south side
of the river.

The Tennessee at this place is beautiful. The bridge looks like a ribbon stretched across it.
The island below, the heavily-wooded banks, the bluffs and mountain, present a scene which
would delight the soul of the artist. A hundred boys were frollicking in the water near the
pontoons, tumbling into the stream in all sorts of ways, kicking up their heels, ducking and
splashing each other, and having a glorious time generally.

30. (Sunday.) The brigade moved into Stevenson.

31. It crossed the Tennessee.

In one of the classes for examination to-day was a sergeant, fifty years old at least, but
still sprightly and active; not very well posted in the infantry tactics now in use, but of
more than ordinary intelligence. The class had not impressed the Board favorably. This Sergeant
we thought rather too old, and the others entirely too ignorant. When the class was told to
retire, this old Sergeant, who, by the way, belongs to a Michigan regiment, came up to me and
asked: "Was John Beatty, of Sandusky, a relative of yours?" "He was my grandfather." "Yes,
you resemble your mother. You are the son of James Beatty. I have carried you in my arms many
a time. My mother saved your life more than once. Thirty years ago your father and mine were
neighbors. I recollect the cabin where you were born as well as if I had seen it but yesterday."
"I am heartily glad to see you, my old friend," said I, taking his hand. "You must stay with
me to-night, and we will talk over the old times together."

When the Sergeant retired, Hobart, with a twinkle in his eye, said he did not think much of
that fellow; his early associations had evidently been bad; he was entirely too old, anyway.
What the army needed, above all things, were young, vigorous, dashing officers; but he supposed,
notwithstanding all this, that we should have to do something for the Sergeant. He had rendered
important service to the country by carrying the honored President of our Board in his arms,
and but for the timely doses of catnip tea, administered by the Sergeant's mother, the gallant
knight of the black horse and pepper-and-salt colt would have been unknown. "What do you say,
gentlemen, to a second lieutenancy for General Beatty's friend?"

"I shall vote for it," replied Stanley.

"Recommend him for a first lieutenancy," I suggested; and they did.

In the evening I had a long and very pleasant conversation with the Sergeant. He had fought
under Bradley in the Patriot war at Point au Pelee; served five years in the regular army during
the Florida war, and two years in the Mexican war. His name is Daniel Rodabaugh. He has been
in the United States service as a soldier for nine years, and richly deserves the position
for which we recommended him.

SEPTEMBER, 1863.

1. Closed up the business of the Board, and at seven o'clock in the evening (Tuesday) left
Stevenson to rejoin the brigade. On the way to the river I passed Colonel Stanley's brigade
of our division. The air was thick with dust. It was quite dark when I crossed the bridge.
The brigade had started on the march hours before, but I thought best to push on and overtake
it. After getting on the wrong road and riding considerably out of my way, I finally found
the right one, and about ten o'clock overtook the rear of the column. The two armies will face
each other before the end of the week. General Lytle's brigade is bivouacking near me. I have
a bad cold, but otherwise am in good health.

3. We moved from Moore's Spring, on the Tennessee, in the morning, and after laboring all day
advanced less than one mile and a quarter. We were ascending Sand mountain; many of our wagons
did not reach the summit.

4. With two regiments I descended into Lookout valley and bivouacked at Brown's Springs about
dark. Our transportation, owing to the darkness and extreme badness of the roads, remained
on the top of the mountain. I have no blankets, and nothing to eat except one ear of corn which
one of the colored boys roasted for me. Wrapped in my overcoat, about nine o'clock, I lay down
on the ground to sleep; but a terrible toothache took hold of me, and I was compelled to get
up and find such relief as I could in walking up and down the road. The moon shone brightly,
and many camp-fires glimmered in the valley and along the side of the mountain. It was three
o'clock in the morning before gentle sleep made me oblivious to aching teeth and head, and
all the other aches which had possession of me.

5. A few deserters come in to us, but they bring little information of the enemy. We are now
in Georgia, twenty miles from Chattanooga by the direct road, which, like all roads here, is
very crooked, and difficult to travel. The enemy is, doubtless, in force very near, but he
makes no demonstrations and retires his pickets without firing a gun. The developments of the
next week or two will be matters for the historian.

Sheridan's division is just coming into the valley; what other troops are to cross the mountain
by this road I do not know. As I write, heavy guns are heard off in the direction of Chattanooga.
The roads are extremely dusty. This morning I consigned to the flames all letters which have
come to me during the last two months.

I have just returned from a ride up the valley to the site of the proposed iron works of Georgia.
Work on the railroad, on the mountain roads, and on the furnaces, was suspended on our approach.
The negroes and white laborers were run off to get them beyond our reach. The hills in the
vicinity of the proposed works are undoubtedly full of iron; the ore crops out so plainly that
it is visible to all passers. Here the Confederacy proposed to supply its railroads with iron
rail, an article at present very nearly exhausted in the South. Had the Georgians possessed
common business sense and common energy, extensive furnaces would have been in operation in
this valley years ago; and now, instead of a few poorly cultivated corn-fields, with here and
there a cabin, the valley and hillsides would be overflowing with population and wealth.

We returned from the site of the iron works by way of Trenton, the seat of justice of Dade
county. Reynolds and Sheridan are encamped near Trenton. I feel better since my ride.

6. (Sunday.) Marched to Johnson's Crook, and bivouacked, at nightfall, at McKay's Spring, on
the north side of Lookout mountain; here my advance regiment, the Forty-second Indiana, had
a slight skirmish with the enemy, in which one man was wounded.

7. We gained the summit of Lookout mountain, and the enemy retired to the gaps on the south side.

8. Started at four o'clock in the morning and pushed for Cooper's Gap. Surprised a cavalry
picket at the foot of the mountain, in McLemore's Cove, Chattanooga valley. In this little
affair we captured five sabers, one revolver, one carbine, one prisoner, and seriously wounded
one man.

While standing on a peak of Lookout, we saw far off to the east long lines of dust trending
slowly to the south, and inferred from this that Bragg had abandoned Chattanooga, and was either
retiring before us or making preparations to check the center and right of our line.

9. Marched up the valley to Stephen's Gap and rejoined the division.

10. Our division marched across McLemore's Cove to Pigeon mountain, found Dug Gap obstructed,
and the enemy in force on the right, left, and front. The skirmishers of the advance brigade,
Colonel Surwell's, were engaged somewhat, and during the night information poured in upon us,
from all quarters, that the enemy, in strength, was making dispositions to surround and cut
us off before reinforcements could arrive.

11. Two brigades of Baird's division joined us about 10 A. M. Five thousand of the enemy's
cavalry were reported to be moving to our left and rear; soon after, his infantry appeared
on our right and left, and, a little later, in our front. From the summit of Pigeon mountain,
the rebels could observe all our movements, and form a good estimate of our entire force. Our
immense train, swelled now by the transportation of Baird's division to near four hundred wagons,
compelled us to select such positions as would enable us to protect the train, and not such
as were most favorable for making an offensive or defensive fight.

It was now impossible for Brannan and Reynolds to reach us in time to render assistance. General
Negley concluded, therefore, to fall back, and ordered me to move to Bailey's Cross-roads,
and await the passage of the wagon train to the rear. The enemy attacked soon after, but were
held in check until the transportation had time to return to Stephens' Gap.

12. We expected an attack this morning, but, reinforcements arriving, the enemy retired. This
afternoon Brannan made a reconnoissance, but the result I have not ascertained; there was,
however, no fighting.

I am writing this in the woods, where we are bivouacking for the night. For nearly two weeks,
now, I have not had my clothes off; and for perhaps not more than two nights of the time have
I had my boots and spurs off. I have arisen at three o'clock in the morning and not lain down
until ten or eleven at night. My appetite is good and health excellent. Last night my horse
fell down with me, and on me, but strange to say only injured himself.

We find great numbers of men in these mountains who profess to be loyal. Our army is divided--Crittenden
on the left, our corps (Thomas) in the center, and McCook far to the right. The greatest danger
we need apprehend is that the enemy may concentrate rapidly and fight our widely separated
corps in detail. Our transportation, necessarily large in any case, but unnecessarily large
in this, impedes us very much. The roads up and down the mountains are extremely bad; our progress
has therefore been slow, and the march hither a tedious one. The brigade lies in the open field
before me in battle line. The boys have had no time to rest during the day, and have done much
night work, but they hold up well. A katydid has been very friendly with me to-night, and is
now sitting on the paper as if to read what I have written.

17. Marched from Bailey's Cross-roads to Owensford on the Chickamauga.

18. Ordered to relieve General Hazen, who held position on the road to Crawfish Springs; but
as he had received no orders, and as mine were but verbal, he declined to move, and I therefore
continued my march and bivouacked at the springs.

About midnight I was ordered to proceed to a ford of the Chickamauga and relieve a brigade
of Palmer's division, commanded by Colonel Grose. The night was dark and the road crooked.
About two in the morning I reached the place; and as Colonel Grose's pickets were being relieved
and mine substituted, occasional shots along the line indicated that the enemy was in our immediate
front.

CHICKAMAUGA.

19. At an early hour in the morning the enemy's pickets made their appearance on the east side
of the Chickamauga and engaged my skirmishers. Some hours later he opened on us with two batteries,
and a sharp artillery fight ensued. During this engagement, the Fifteenth Kentucky, Colonel
Taylor, occupied an advanced position in the woods on the low ground, and the shots of the
artillery passed immediately over it. I rode down to this regiment to see that the men were
not disturbed by the furious cannonading, and to obtain at the same time a better view of the
enemy. While thus absent, Captain Bridges, concluding that the Confederate guns were too heavy
for him, limbered up and fell back. Hastening to the hill, I sent Captain Wilson with an order
to Bridges to return; and, being reinforced soon after by three pieces of Shultz's First Ohio
Battery, we opened again on the advancing columns of the enemy, when they fell back precipitately,
evidently concluding that the lull in our firing and withdrawal of our artillery were simply
devices to draw them on.

In this affair eight men of the infantry were wounded; and Captain Bridges had two men killed,
nine wounded, and lost twelve horses.

About five o'clock in the afternoon I was directed to withdraw my picket line--which had been
greatly extended in order to connect with troops on the left--as silently and carefully as
possible, and return to Crawfish Springs. Arriving at the springs, the boys were allowed time
to fill their canteens with water, when we pushed forward on the Chattanooga road to a ridge
near Osbern's, where we bivouacked for the night.

There had been heavy fighting on our left during the whole afternoon; and while the boys were
preparing supper, a very considerable engagement was occurring not far distant to the east
and south of us. Elsewhere an occasional volley of musketry, and boom of artillery, with scattered
firing along an extended line indicated that the two grand armies were concentrating for battle,
and that the morrow would give us hot and dangerous work.

20. (Sunday.) At an early hour in the morning I was directed to move northward on the Chattanooga
road and report to General Thomas. He ordered me to go to the extreme left of our line, form
perpendicularly to the rear of Baird's division, connecting with his left. I disposed of my
brigade as directed. Baird's line appeared to run parallel with the road, and mine running
to the rear crossed the road. On this road and near it I posted my artillery, and advanced
my skirmishers to the edge of the open field in front of the left and center of my line. The
position was a good one, and my brigade and the one on Baird's left could have co-operated
and assisted each other in maintaining it. Fifteen minutes after this line was formed, Captain
Gaw, of General Thomas' staff, brought me a verbal order to advance my line to a ridge or low
hill (McDaniel's house), fully one-fourth of a mile distant. I represented to him that in advancing
I would necessarily leave a long interval between my right and Baird's left, and also that
I was already in the position which General Thomas himself told me to occupy. He replied that
the order to move forward was imperative, and that I was to be supported by Negley with the
other two brigades of his division. I could object no further, although the movement seemed
exceedingly unwise, and, therefore, pushed forward my men as rapidly as possible to the point
indicated. The Eighty-eighth Indiana (Colonel Humphreys), on the left, moved into position
without difficulty. The Forty-second Indiana (Lieutenant-Colonel McIntyre), on its right, met
with considerable opposition in advancing through the woods, but finally reached the ridge.
The One Hundred and Fourth Illinois (Lieutenant-Colonel Hapeman), and Fifteenth Kentucky (Colonel
Taylor), on the right, became engaged almost immediately and advanced slowly. The enemy in
strong force pressed them heavily in front and on the right flank.

At this time I sent an aid to request General Baird or General King to throw a force in the
interval between my right and their left, and dispatched Captain Wilson to the rear to hasten
forward General Negley to my support. My regiment on the right was confronted by so large a
force that it was compelled to fall back, which it did in good order, contesting the ground
stoutly. About this time a column of the enemy, en masse, on the double quick, pressed into
the interval between the One Hundred and Fourth Illinois and Forty-second Indiana, and turned
with the evident intention of capturing the latter, which was then busily engaged with the
rebels in its front; but Captain Bridges opened on it with grape and canister, when it broke
and fell back in disorder to the shelter of the woods. The Forty-second Indiana, but a moment
before almost surrounded, was thus enabled to fight its way to the left and unite with the
Eighty-eighth. Soon after this the enemy made another and more furious assault upon the One
Hundred and Fourth Illinois and Fifteenth Kentucky, and, driving them back, advanced to within
fifty yards of my battery, and poured into it a heavy fire, killing Lieutenant Bishop, and
killing or wounding all the men and horses belonging to his section, which consequently fell
into rebel hands. Captain Bridges and his officers, by the exercise of great courage and coolness,
succeeded in saving the remainder of the battery. It was in this encounter that Captain LeFevre,
of my staff, was killed, and Lieutenant Calkins, also of the staff, was wounded.

The enemy having now gained the woods south of the open field and west of the road, I opposed
his further progress as well as I could with the Fifteenth Kentucky and One Hundred and Fourth
Illinois; but as he had two full brigades, the struggle on our part seemed a hopeless one.
Fortunately, at this juncture, I discovered a battery on the road in our rear (I think it was
Captain Goodspeed's), and at my request the Captain ordered it to change front and open fire.
This additional opposition served for a time to entirely check the enemy.

The Eighty-eighth and Forty-second Indiana, compelled, as their officers claim, to make a detour
to the left and rear, in order to escape capture or utter annihilation, found General Negley,
and were ordered to remain with him, and finally to retire with him in the direction of Rossville.
This, however, I did not ascertain until ten hours later in the day.

Firing having now ceased in my front, and being the only mounted officer or mounted man present,
I left the Fifteenth Kentucky and One Hundred and Fourth Illinois temporarily in charge of
Colonel Taylor, and hurried back to see General Thomas or Negley, and urge the necessity for
more troops to enable me to re-establish the line. On the way, and before proceeding far, I
met the Second Brigade of our division, Colonel Stanley, advancing to my support. Had it reached
me an hour earlier, I feel assured that I would have been able to maintain the position which
I had just been compelled to abandon. I directed Colonel Stanley to form a line of battle at
once, at right angles with the road and on its left, facing north. Returning to Colonel Taylor,
I ordered him to fall back with the Fifteenth Kentucky and One Hundred and Fourth Illinois,
and form in rear of the left of Stanley's line, as a support to it. Soon after we had got our
lines adjusted, the enemy pressed back the skirmishers of the Fifteenth Kentucky and One Hundred
and Fourth Illinois, who had not been retired with the regiments, and, following them up, drove
in also the skirmish line of Stanley's brigade, whereupon the Eleventh Michigan (Colonel Stoughton),
and the Eighteenth Ohio (Lieutenant-Colonel Grosvenor), gave him a well-directed volley, which
brought him to a halt. Our whole line then opened at short range, and he wavered. I gave the
order to advance, then to charge, and the brigade rushed forward with a yell, drove the enemy
fully one-fourth of a mile, strewing the ground with his dead and wounded, and capturing many
prisoners. Among the latter was General Adams, the commander of a Louisiana brigade.

Finding now that Colonel Taylor had not followed the movement with his regiment and the One
Hundred and Fourth Illinois, and seeing the necessity for some support for a single line so
extended, I hastened to the rear, and, being unable to find Taylor where I had left him, I
induced four regiments, of I know not what command, which I found idle in the woods, to move
forward and form a second line.

At this time Captain Wilson, whom I had sent to General Negley some time before the Second
Brigade reached me, to inform him of my position and need of assistance, returned, and brought
from him a verbal order to retire to the hill in the rear and join him. Convinced that the
withdrawal of the troops at this time from the position occupied might endanger the whole left
wing of the army, I thought best to defer the execution of this order until I could see General
Negley and explain to him the necessity of maintaining and reinforcing it with the other brigade
of our division. But before Captain Wilson could find either Colonel Taylor, who had in charge
the Fifteenth Kentucky and One Hundred and Fourth Illinois, or General Negley, the enemy made
a fierce attack on Stanley's brigade and forced it back. The unknown brigade which I had posted
in the rear to support it retired with unseemly haste, and without firing a shot.

At this juncture frightened soldiers and occasional shots were coming from the right and rear
of our line, indicating that the right wing of the army had either been thrown back or changed
position. Stanley's brigade, considerably scattered and shattered by the last furious assault
of the enemy, was gathered up by its officers and retired to the ridge on the right and to
the rear of the original line of battle. Wilson and I made diligent efforts to find Taylor,
but were unable to do so. I was greatly provoked at his retirement without consulting me, and
at a time, too, when his presence was so greatly needed to support Stanley. But later in the
day I ascertained from him that he had been ordered by Major Lowrie, General Negley's chief
of staff, to join Negley and retire with him to Rossville. He also had much to say about saving
many pieces of artillery; but it occurred to me that his presence on the field was of much
more importance than a few pieces of trumpery artillery off the field. Why, at any rate, did
he not notify me of the order which he had received from the division commander? The charge
of Stanley's brigade had not occupied to exceed thirty minutes, and as soon as it was ended
I had returned to find him gone. The Colonel, however, did, doubtless, what he conceived to
be his duty, and for the best. His courage had been tested on too many occasions to allow me
to think that anything but an error of judgment, or possibly the belief that under any circumstances
he was bound to obey the order of the major-general commanding the division, could have induced
him to abandon me.

Supposing my regiments and General Negley to be still on the field, I again dispatched Captain
Wilson in search of them, and in the meantime stationed myself near a fragment of the Second
Brigade of our division, and gave such general directions to the troops about me as under the
circumstances I felt warranted in doing. I found abundant opportunity to make myself useful.
Gathering up scattered detachments of a dozen different commands, I filled up an unoccupied
space on the ridge between Harker, of Wood's division, on the left, and Brannan, on the right,
and this point we held obstinately until sunset. Colonel Stoughton, Eleventh Michigan; Lieutenant-Colonel
Rappin, Nineteenth Illinois; Lieutenant-Colonel Grosvenor, Eighteenth Ohio; Colonel Hunter,
Eighty-second Indiana; Colonel Hays and Lieutenant-Colonel Wharton, Tenth Kentucky; Captain
Stinchcomb, Seventeenth Ohio; and Captain Kendrick, Seventy-ninth Pennsylvania, were there,
each having a few men of their respective commands; and they and their men fought and struggled
and clung to that ridge with an obstinate, persistent, desperate courage, unsurpassed, I believe,
on any field. I robbed the dead of cartridges and distributed them to the men; and once when,
after a desperate struggle, our troops were driven from the crest, and the enemy's flag waved
above it, the men were rallied, and I rode up the hill with them, waving my hat, and shouting
like a madman. Thus we charged, and the enemy only saved his colors by throwing them down the
hill. However much we may say of those who held command, justice compels the acknowledgment
that no officer exhibited more courage on that occasion than the humblest private in the ranks.

About four o'clock we saw away off to our rear the banners and glittering guns of a division
coming toward us, and we became agitated by doubt and hope. Are they friends or foes? The thunder,
as of a thousand anvils, still goes on in our front. Men fall around us like leaves in autumn.
Thomas, Garfield, Wood, and others are in consultation below the hill just in rear of Harker.
The approaching troops are said to be ours, and we feel a throb of exultation. Before they
arrive we ascertain that the division is Steedman's; and finally, as they come up, I recognize
my old friend, Colonel Mitchell, of the One Hundred and Thirteenth. They go into action on
our right, and as they press forward the roar of the musketry redoubles; the battle seems to
be working off in that direction. There is now a comparative lull in our front, and I ride
over to the right, and become involved in a regiment which has been thrown out of line and
into confusion by another regiment that retreated through it in disorder. I assist Colonel
Mitchell in rallying it, and it goes into the fight again. Returning to my old place, I find
that disorganized bodies of men are coming rapidly from the left, in regiments, companies,
squads, and singly. I meet General Wood, and ask if I shall not halt and reorganize them. He
tells me to do so; but I find the task impossible. They do not recognize me as their commander,
and most of them will not obey my orders. Some few, indeed, I manage to hold together; but
the great mass drift by me to the woods in the rear. The dead are lying every-where; the wounded
are continually passing to the rear; the thunder of the guns and roll of musketry are unceasing
and unabated until nightfall. Then the fury of the battle gradually dies away, and finally
we have a silence, broken only by a cheer here and there along the enemy's line.

Wilson and I are together near the ridge, where we have been all the afternoon. We have heard
nothing of Negley nor of my regiments. We take it for granted, however, that they are somewhere
on the field. As the night darkens we discover a line of fires off to our left and rear, toward
McDaniels' house. That is the place where Negley should have been in the morning, and we conclude
he must be there now.

We have been badly used during the day; but it does not occur to us that our army has been
whipped. We start together to find Negley. We have had nothing to eat since early morning,
and so, passing a corn-field, we stop for a moment to fill our pockets with corn; then, proceeding
on our way, we pass through an unused field, grown up with brush, and here meet a man coming
toward us on horseback. I said to him, "Are those our troops?" pointing in the direction of
the line of fires. He answered, "Yes; our troops are on the road and just beyond it." Pretty
soon we emerged from the brushy woods and entered an open field; just before us was a long
line of fires, and soldiers busily engaged preparing supper. We had approached to within two
hundred feet of them, and could hear the soldiers talk and laugh, as soldiers will, over the
incidents of the day, when we discerned that we were riding straight into the enemy's line.
Instantly wheeling our horses, we drove the spurs into them and lay down on their backs. We
had been discovered, and a dozen or more shots were sent after us; but we escaped unharmed.
The man we met in the unused field had mistaken us for Confederate officers. Two or three shots
were fired at us as we approached our own line, but the darkness saved us.

Near eight o'clock in the evening I ascertained, from General Wood, that the army had been
ordered to fall back to Rossville, and I started at once to inform Colonel Stoughton and others
on the ridge; but I found that they had been apprised of the movement, and were then on the
road to the rear.

The march to Rossville was a melancholy one. All along the road, for miles, wounded men were
lying. They had crawled or hobbled slowly away from the fury of the battle, become exhausted,
and lay down by the roadside to die. Some were calling the names and numbers of their regiments,
but many had become too weak to do this; by midnight the column had passed by. What must have
been their agony, mental and physical, as they lay in the dreary woods, sensible that there
was no one to comfort or to care for them, and that in a few hours more their career on earth
would be ended.

At a little brook, which crossed the road, Wilson and I stopped to water our horses. The remains
of a fire, which some soldiers had kindled, were raked together, and laying a couple of ears
of corn on the coals for our own use, we gave the remainder of what we had in our pockets to
the poor beasts; they, also, had fasted since early morning.

How many terrible scenes of the day's battle recur to us as we ride on in the darkness. We
see again the soldier whose bowels were protruding, and hear him cry, "Jesus, have mercy on
my soul!" What multitudes of thought were then crowding into the narrow half hour which he
had yet to live--what regrets, what hopes, what fears! The sky was darkening, earth fading;
wealth, power, fame, the prizes most esteemed of men, were as nothing. His only hope lay in
the Saviour of whom his mother had taught him. I doubt not his earnest, agonizing prayer was
heard. Nay, to doubt would be to question the mercy of God!

A Confederate boy, who should have been at home with his mother, and whose leg had been fearfully
torn by a minnie ball, hailed me as I was galloping by early in the day. He was bleeding to
death, and crying bitterly. I gave him my handkerchief, and shouted back to him, as I hurried
on, "Bind up the leg tight!"

The adjutant of the rebel General Adams called to me as I passed him. He wanted help, but I
could not help him--could not even help our own poor boys who lay bleeding near him.

Sammy Snyder lay on the field wounded; as I handed him my canteen he said, "General, I did
my duty." "I know that, Sammy; I never doubted that you would do your duty." The most painful
recollection to one who has gone through a battle, is that of the friends lying wounded and
dying and who needed help so much when you were utterly powerless to aid them.

Between ten and eleven o'clock, at night, I reached Rossville, and found one of my regiments,
the Forty-second Indiana, on picket one mile south of that place, and the other regiments encamped
near the town. My men were surprised and rejoiced to see me. It had been currently reported
that I was killed. One fellow claimed to know the exact spot on my body where the ball hit
me; while another, not willing to be outdone, had given a minute description of the locality
where I fell. General Negley rendered me good service by giving me something to eat and drink,
for I was hungry as a wolf.

At this hour of the night (eleven to twelve o'clock) the army is simply a mob. There appears
to be neither organization nor discipline. The various commands are mixed up in what seems
to be inextricable confusion. Were a division of the enemy to pounce down upon us between this
and morning, I fear the Army of the Cumberland would be blotted out.

21. Early this morning the army was again got into order. Officers and soldiers found their
regiments, regiments their brigades, and brigades their divisions. My brigade was posted on
a high ridge, east of Rossville and near it. About ten o'clock A. M. it was attacked by a brigade
of mounted infantry, a part of Forrest's command, under Colonel Dibble. After a sharp fight
of half an hour, in which the Fifteenth Kentucky, Colonel Taylor, and the Forty-second Indiana,
Lieutenant-Colonel McIntyre, were principally engaged, the enemy was repulsed, and retired
leaving his dead and a portion of his wounded on the field. Of his dead, one officer and eight
men were left within a few rods of our line. One little boy, so badly wounded they could not
carry him off, said, with tears and sobs, "They have run off and left me in the woods to die."
I directed the boys to carry him into our lines and care for him.

At midnight, the Fifteenth Kentucky was deployed on the skirmish line; the other regiments
of the brigade withdrawn, and started on the way to Chattanooga. A little later the Fifteenth
Kentucky quietly retired and proceeded to the same place.

22. We are at Chattanooga.

With the exception of a cold, great exhaustion, and extreme hoarseness, occasioned by much
hallooing, I am in good condition. The rebels have followed us and are taking position in our
front.

24. At midnight the enemy attempted to drive in our pickets, and an engagement ensued, which
lasted an hour or more, and was quite brisk.

26. This morning another furious assault was made on our picket line; but, after a short time,
the rebels retired and permitted us to remain quiet for the remainder of the day.

Their pickets are plainly seen from our lines, and their signal flags are discernable on Mission
ridge. Occasionally we see their columns moving. Our army is busily engaged fortifying.

27. (Sunday.) Had a good night's rest, and am feeling very well. The day is a quiet one.

OCTOBER, 1863.

1. Have been trying to persuade myself that I am unwell enough to ask for a leave, but it will
not work. The moment after I come to the conclusion that I am really sick, and can not stand
it longer, I begin to feel better. The very thought of getting home, and seeing wife and children,
cures me at once.

3. The two armies are lying face to face. The Federal and Confederate sentinels walk their
beats in sight of each other. The quarters of the rebel generals may be seen from our camps
with the naked eye. The tents of their troops dot the hillsides. To-night we see their signal
lights off to the right on the summit of Lookout mountain, and off to the left on the knobs
of Mission ridge. Their long lines of camp fires almost encompass us. But the camp fires of
the Army of the Cumberland are burning also. Bruised and torn by a two days' unequal contest,
its flags are still up, and its men still unwhipped. It has taken its position here, and here,
by God's help, it will remain.

Colonel Hobart was captured at Chickamauga, and a fear is entertained that he may have been
wounded.

4. This is a pleasant October morning, rather windy and cool, but not at all uncomfortable.
The bands are mingling with the autumn breezes such martial airs as are common in camps, with
now and then a sentimental strain, which awakens recollections of other days, when we were
younger--thought more of sweethearts than of war, when, in fact, we did not think of war at
all except as something of the past.

Sitting at my tent door, with a field glass, I can see away off to the right, on the highest
peak of Lookout mountain, a man waving a red flag to and fro. He is a rebel officer, signaling
to the Confederate generals what he observes of importance in the valley. From his position
he can look down into our camp, see every rifle pit, and almost count the pieces of artillery
in our fortifications.

Captain Johnson, of General Negley's staff, has just been in, and tells me the pickets of the
two armies are growing quite intimate, sitting about on logs together, talking over the great
battle, and exchanging views as to the results of a future engagement.

General Negley called a few minutes ago and invited me to dine with him at five o'clock. The
General looks demoralized, and, I think, regrets somewhat the part he took, or rather the part
he failed to take, in the battle of Chickamauga. Remarks are made in reference to his conduct
on that occasion which are other than complimentary. The General doubtless did what he thought
was best, and probably had orders which will justify his action. After a battle there is always
more or less bad feeling, regiments, brigades, and corps claiming that other regiments, brigades,
and corps failed to do their whole duty, and should therefore be held responsible for this
or that misfortune.

There was a rumor, for some days before the battle of Chickamauga, that Burnside was on the
way to join us, and we shouted Burnside to the boys, on the day of the battle, until we became
hoarse. Did the line stagger and show a disposition to retire: "Stand up, boys, reinforcements
are coming; Burnside is near." Once, when Palmer's division was falling back through a corn-field,
our line was hotly pressed. Pointing to Palmer's columns, which were coming from the left toward
the right, the officers shouted, "Give it to 'em, boys, Burnside is here," and the boys went
in with renewed confidence. But, alas, at nightfall Burnside had played out, and the hearts
of our brave fellows went down with the sun. Burnside is now regarded as a myth, a fictitious
warrior, who is said to be coming to the rescue of men sorely pressed, but who never comes.
When an improbable story is told to the boys, now, they express their unbelief by the simple
word "Burnside," sometimes adding, "O yes, we know him."

5. The enemy opened on us, at 11 A. M., from batteries located on the point of Lookout mountain,
and continued to favor us with cast-iron in the shape of shell and solid shot until sunset.
He did little damage, however, three men only were wounded, and these but slightly. A shell
entered the door of a dog tent, near which two soldiers of the Eighteenth Ohio were standing,
and buried itself in the ground, when one of the soldiers turned very coolly to the other and
said, "There, you d--d fool, you see what you get by leaving your door open."

6. The enemy unusually silent.

7. Visited the picket line this afternoon. A rebel line officer came to within a few rods of
our picket station, to exchange papers, and stood and chatted for some time with the Federal
officer. There appears to be a perfect understanding that neither party shall fire unless an
advance is made in force.

NOVEMBER, 1863.

11. My new brigade consists of the following regiments:

One Hundred and Thirteenth Ohio Infantry, Colonel John G. Mitchell.

One Hundred and Twenty-first Ohio Infantry, Colonel H. B. Banning.

One Hundred and Eighth Ohio Infantry, Lieutenant-Colonel Piepho.

Ninety-eighth Ohio Infantry, Major Shane.

Third Ohio Infantry, Captain Leroy S. Bell.

Seventy-eighth Illinois Infantry, Colonel Van Vleck.

Thirty-fourth Illinois Infantry, Colonel Van Tassell.

There has been much suffering among the men. They have for weeks been reduced to quarter rations,
and at times so eager for food that the commissary store-rooms would be thronged, and the few
crumbs which fell from broken boxes of hard-bread carefully gathered up and eaten. Men have
followed the forage wagons and picked up the grains of corn which fell from them, and in some
instances they have picked up the grains of corn from the mud where mules have been fed. The
suffering among the animals has been intense. Hundreds of mules and horses have died of starvation.
Now, however, that we have possession of the river, the men are fully supplied, but the poor
horses and mules are still suffering. A day or two more will, I trust, enable us to provide
well for them also. Two steamboats are plying between this and Chattanooga, and one immense
wagon train is also busy. Supplies are coming forward with a reasonable degree of rapidity.
The men appear to be in good health and excellent spirits.

12. We are encamped on Stringer's ridge, on the north side of the Tennessee, immediately opposite
Chattanooga. This morning Colonel Mitchell and I rode to the picket line of the brigade. The
line runs along the river, opposite and to the north of the point of Lookout mountain. At the
time, a heavy fog rising from the water veiled somewhat the gigantic proportions of Lookout
point, or the nose of Lookout, as it is sometimes designated. While standing on the bank, at
the water's edge, peering through the mist, to get a better view of two Confederate soldiers,
on the opposite shore, a heavy sound broke from the summit of Lookout mountain, and a shell
went whizzing over into Hooker's camps. Pretty soon a battery opened on what is called Moccasin
point, on the north side of the river, and replied to Lookout. Later in the day Moccasin and
Lookout got into an angry discussion which lasted two hours. These two batteries have a special
spite at each other, and almost every day thunder away in the most terrible manner. Lookout
throws his missiles too high and Moccasin too low, so that usually the only loss sustained
by either is in ammunition. Moccasin, however, makes the biggest noise. The sound of his guns
goes crashing and echoing along the sides of Lookout in a way that must be particularly gratifying
to Moccasin's soul. I fear, however, that both these gigantic gentlemen are deaf as adders,
or they would not so delight in kicking up such a hellebaloo.

This afternoon I rode over to Chattanooga. Called at the quarters of my division commander,
General Jeff. C. Davis, but found him absent; stopped at Department Head-quarters and saw General
Reynolds, chief of staff; caught sight of Generals Hooker, Howard, and Gordon Granger. Soon
General Thomas entered the room and shook hands with me. On my way back to camp I called on
General Rousseau; had a long and pleasant conversation with him. He goes to Nashville to-morrow
to assume command of the District of Tennessee. He does not like the way in which he has been
treated; thinks there is a disposition on the part of those in authority to shelve him, and
that his assignment to Nashville is for the purpose of letting him down easily. Palmer, who
has been assigned to the command of the Fourteenth Corps, is Rousseau's junior in rank, and
this grinds him. He referred very kindly to the old Third Division, and said it won him his
stars. I told him I was exceedingly anxious to get home; that it seemed almost impossible for
me to remain longer. He said that I must continue until they made me a major-general. I replied
that I neither expected nor desired promotion.

At the river I met Father Stanley, of the Eighteenth Ohio. He presides over the swing ferry,
in which he takes especial delight. A long rope, fastened to a stake in the middle of the river,
is attached to the boat, and the current is made to swing it from one shore to the other.

14. My fleet-footed black horse is dead. Did the new moon, which I saw so squarely over my
left shoulder when riding him over Waldron's ridge, augur this?

The rebel journals are expressing great dissatisfaction at Bragg's failure to take Chattanooga,
and insist upon his doing so without further delay. On the other hand, the authorities at Washington
are probably urging Grant to move, fearing if he does not that Burnside will be overwhelmed.
Thus both generals must do something soon in order to satisfy their respective masters. There
will be a battle or a foot-race within a week or two.

15. Have read Whitelaw Reid's statement of the causes of Rosecrans' removal. He is, I presume,
in the main correct. Investigation will show that the army could have gotten into Chattanooga
without a battle on the Chickamauga. There would have been a battle here, doubtless, and defeat
would have resulted probably in our destruction; yet it seems reasonable to suppose that, if
able to hold Chattanooga after defeat, we would have been able to do so before.

MISSION RIDGE.

20. Orders have been issued, and to-morrow a great battle will be fought. May God be with our
army and favor us with a substantial victory! My brigade will move at daylight. It is now getting
ready.

Order to move countermanded at midnight.

22. The day is delightful. Lookout and Moccasin are furious. The Eleventh Corps (Howard's)
is now crossing the pontoon bridge, just below and before us, to take position for to-morrow's
engagement. Sherman is also moving up the river on the north side, with a view to getting at
the enemy's right flank. My brigade will be under arms at daylight, and ready to move. Our
division will operate with Sherman on the left. Hitherto I have gone into battle almost without
knowing it; now we are about to bring on a terrible conflict, and have abundant time for reflection.
I can not affirm that the prospect has a tendency to elevate one's spirits. There are men,
doubtless, who enjoy having their legs sawed off, their heads trepanned, and their ribs reset,
but I am not one of them. I am disposed to think of home and family--of the great suffering
which results from engagements between immense armies. Somebody--Wellington, I guess--said
there was nothing worse than a great victory except a great defeat.

Rode with Colonel Mitchell four miles up the river to General Davis' quarters; met there General
Morgan, commanding First Brigade of our division; Colonel Dan McCook, commanding Third Brigade,
and Mr. Dana, Assistant Secretary of War.

23. It is now half-past five o'clock in the morning. The moon has gone down, and it is that
darkest hour which is said to precede the dawn. My troops have been up since three o'clock
busily engaged making preparation for the day's work. Judging from the almost continuous whistling
of the cars off beyond Mission Ridge, the rebels have an intimation of the attack to be made,
and are busy either bringing reinforcements or preparing to evacuate.

Noon. There has been a hitch in affairs, and I am still in my tent at the old place.

About 2 P. M. a division or more was sent out to reconnoiter the enemy's front. The movement
resulted in a sharp fight, which lasted until after sunset. Both artillery and infantry were
engaged. As night grew on we could see the flash of the enemy's guns all along the crest of
Mission Ridge, and then hear the report, and the prolonged reverberations as the sound went
crashing among ridges, hills, and mountains. Rumor says that our troops captured five hundred
prisoners.

24. Moved to Caldwell's, four miles up the river. A pontoon bridge was thrown across the stream;
but there were many troops in advance of us, and my brigade did not reach the south side until
after one o'clock. Our division was held in reserve; so we stacked arms and lay upon the grass
midway between the river and the foot of Mission Ridge, and listened to the preliminary music
of the guns as the National line was being adjusted for to-morrow's battle.

25. During the day, as we listened to the roar of the conflict, I thought I detected in the
management what I had never discovered before on the battle-field, a little common sense. Dash
is handsome, genius glorious; but modest, old-fashioned, practical, every-day sense is the
trump, after all, and the only thing one can securely rely upon for permanent success in any
line, either civil or military. This element evidently dominated in this battle. The struggle
along Mission Ridge seemed more like a series of independent battles than one grand conflict.
There were few times during the day when the engagement appeared to be heavy and continuous
along the whole line. There certainly was not an extended and unceasing roll, as at Chickamauga
and Stone river, but rather a succession of heavy blows. Now it would thunder furiously on
the extreme right; then the left would take up the sledge, and finally the center would begin
to pound; and so the National giant appeared to skip from point to point along the ridge, striking
rapid and thundering blows here and there, as if seeking the weak place in his antagonist's
armor. The enemy, thoroughly bewildered, finally became most fearful of Sherman, who was raising
a perfect pandemonium on his flank, and so strengthened his right at the expense of other portions
of his line, when Thomas struck him in the center, and he abandoned the field. The loss must
be comparatively small, but the victory is all the more glorious for this very reason.

26. At one o'clock in the morning we crossed the Chickamauga in pursuit of the retreating enemy.
The First Brigade of our division having the lead, I had nothing to do but follow it. At Chickamauga
depot we came in sight of the rebels, and formed line of battle to attack; but they retired,
leaving the warehouses containing their supplies in flames. At 3 P. M. my brigade was ordered
to head the column, and we drove the enemy's rear guard before us without meeting with any
serious opposition until nightfall, when, on arriving at Mrs. Sheppard's spring branch, near
Graysville, a brigade of Confederate troops, with a battery, under command of Brigadier-General
Manny, opened on us with considerable violence. A sharp encounter ensued of about an hour's
duration, resulting in the defeat of the enemy and the wounding of the rebel general. My brigade
behaved well, did most of the fighting, and, owing to the darkness, probably, sustained but
little loss. When General Davis came up I asked permission to make a detour through the woods
to the right, for the purpose of overtaking and cutting off the enemy's train; but he thought
it not advisable to attempt it.

DECEMBER, 1863.

I will not undertake to give a detailed account of our march to Knoxville, for the relief of
Burnside, and the return to Chattanooga. We were gone three weeks, and during that time had
no change of clothing, and were compelled to obtain our food from the corn-cribs, hen-roosts,
sheep-pens, and smoke-houses on the way. The incidents of this trip, through the valleys of
East Tennessee, where the waters of the Hiawasse, and the Chetowa, and the Ocoee, and the Estonola
ripple through corn-fields and meadows, and beneath shadows of evergreen ridges, will be laid
aside for a more convenient season. I append simply a letter of General Sherman:

                 "HEAD-QUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE TENNESSEE,}
                       "CHATTANOOGA, December 18, 1863.   }

          "GENERAL JEFF. C. DAVIS, Chattanooga.

          "DEAR GENERAL--In our recent short but most useful
          campaign it was my good fortune to have attached
          to me the corps of General Howard, and the
          division commanded by yourself. I now desire to
          thank you personally and officially for the
          handsome manner in which you and your command have
          borne themselves throughout. You led in the
          pursuit of Bragg's army on the route designated
          for my command, and I admired the skill with which
          you handled the division at Chickamauga, and more
          especially in the short and sharp encounter, at
          nightfall, near Graysville.

          "When General Grant called on us, unexpectedly and
          without due preparation, to march to Knoxville for
          the relief of General Burnside, you and your
          officers devoted yourselves to the work like
          soldiers and patriots, marching through cold and
          mud without a murmur, trusting to accidents for
          shelter and subsistence.

          "During the whole march, whenever I encountered
          your command, I found all the officers at their
          proper places and the men in admirable order. This
          is the true test, and I pronounce your division
          one of the best ordered in the service. I wish you
          all honor and success in your career, and shall
          deem myself most fortunate if the incidents of war
          bring us together again.

          "Be kind enough to say to General Morgan, General
          Beatty, and Colonel McCook, your brigade
          commanders, that I have publicly and privately
          commended their brigades, and that I stand
          prepared, at all times, to assist them in whatever
          way lies in my power.

          "I again thank you personally, and beg to
          subscribe myself,         Your sincere friend,

                    "W. T. SHERMAN, Major-General."

Colonel Van Vleck, Seventy-eight Illinois, was kind enough in his report to say:

"In behalf of the entire regiment I tender to the general commanding the brigade, my sincere
thanks for his uniform kindness, and for his solicitude for the men during all their hardships
and suffering, as well as for his undaunted courage, self-possession, and military skill in
time of danger."

26. Moved to McAffee's Springs, six miles from Chattanooga, and two miles from the battle-field
of Chickamauga. My quarters are in the State of Tennessee, those of my troops in Georgia. The
line between the states is about forty yards from where I sit. On our way hither, we saw many
things to remind us of the Confederate army--villages of log huts, chimneys, old clothing,
and miles of rifle pits.

27. Just a moment ago I asked Wilson the day of the week, and he astonished me by saying it
was Sunday. It is the first time I ever passed a Sabbath, from daylight to dark, without knowing
it.

Wilson lies on his cot to-night a disappointed man. His application for a leave was disapproved.

I am quartered in a log hut; a blanket over the doorway excludes the damp air and the cold
blasts. The immense chinks, or rather lack of immense chinks, in various parts of the edifice,
leave abundance of room for the admission of light. There are no windows, but this is fortunate,
for if there were, they, like the door, would need covering, and blankets are scarce. The fire-place,
however, is grand, and would be creditable to a castle.

The forest in which we are encamped, was, in former times, a rendezvous for the blacklegs,
thieves, murderers, and outlaws, generally of two States, Tennessee and Georgia. An old inhabitant
informs me he has seen hundreds of these persecuted and proscribed gentry encamped about this
spring. When an officer of Tennessee came with a writ to arrest them, they would step a few
yards into the State of Georgia and laugh at him. So, when Georgia sought to lay its official
clutches on an offending Georgian, the latter would walk over into Tennessee and argue the
case across the line. It was a very convenient spot for law-breakers. To reach across this
imaginary line, and draw a man from Tennessee, would be kidnapping, an insult to a sovereign
State, and in a States'-rights country such a procedure could not be tolerated. Requisitions
from the governors of Tennessee and Georgia might, of course, be procured, but this would take
time, and in this time the offender could walk leisurely into Alabama or North Carolina, neither
of which States is very far away. In fact, the presence of large numbers of these desperados,
in this locality, at all seasons of the year, has prevented its settlement by good men, and,
in consequence, there are thousands of acres on which there has scarcely been a field cleared,
or even a tree cut.

The somber forest, with its peculiar history, suggests to our minds the green woods of old
England, where Robin Hood and his merry men were wont to pass their idle time; or the Black
Forest of Germany, where thieves and highwaymen found concealment in days of old.

What a country for the romancer! Here is the dense wilderness, the Tennessee and Chickamauga,
the precipitous Lookout with his foot-hills, spurs, coves, and water-falls. Here are cosy little
valleys from which the world, with its noise, bustle, confusions, and cares, is excluded. Here
have congregated the bloody villains and sneaking thieves; the plumed knights, dashing horsemen,
and stubborn infantry. Here are the two great battle-fields of Chickamauga and Mission Ridge.
Here neighbors have divided, and families separated to fight on questions of National policy.
Here, in short, every thing is supplied to the poet but the invention to construct the plot
of his tale, and the genius to breathe life into the characters.

It may be possible, however, that the country is yet too young, and its incidents too new,
to make it a fertile field for the novelist. The imagination works best amid scenes half known
and half forgotten. When time shall have thrown its shadows over the events of the last century,
and the real and unreal become so intermingled in the minds of men as to become indistinguishable,
imaginary Robin Hoods will find hiding places in the caves; innocent men, in deadly peril,
will seek safety in the mountain fastnesses until the danger be past; conspirators will meet
in the shadowy recesses to concoct their hellish plots, over which truth, courage, and honesty
will finally triumph. Here the blue and the gray will meet to fight, and to be reconciled;
and there will not be wanting the Helen McGregors and Die Vernons to give color and interest
to the scene.

27. Our horses are on quarter feed.

Some benevolent gentleman should suggest a sanitary fair for the benefit of the disabled horses
and mules of the Federal army. There is no suffering so intense as theirs. They are driven,
with whip and spur, on half and quarter food, until they drop from exhaustion, and then abandoned
to die in the mud-hole where they fall. At Parker's Gap, on our return from Tennessee, I saw
a poor white horse that had been rolled down the hill to get it out of the road. It had lodged
against a fallen tree, feet uppermost; to get up the hill was impossible, and to roll down
certain destruction. So the poor brute lay there, looking pitiful enough, his big frame trembling
with fright, his great eyes looking anxiously, imploringly for help. A man can give vent to
his sufferings, he can ask for assistance, he can find some relief either in crying, praying,
or cursing; but for the poor exhausted and abandoned beast there is no help, no relief, no hope.

To-day we picked up, on the battle-field of Chickamauga, the skull of a man who had been shot
in the head. It was smooth, white, and glossy. A little over three months ago this skull was
full of life, hope, and ambition. He who carried it into battle had, doubtless, mother, sisters,
friends, whose happiness was, to some extent, dependent upon him. They mourn for him now, unless,
possibly, they hope still to hear that he is safe and well. Vain hope. Sun, rain, and crows
have united in the work of stripping the flesh from his bones, and while the greater part of
these lay whitening where they fell, the skull has been rolling about the field the sport and
plaything of the winds. This is war, and amid such scenes we are supposed to think of the amount
of our salary, and of what the newspapers may say of us.

28. One of my orderlies approached me on my weak side to-day, by presenting me four cigars.
Cigars are now rarely seen in camp. Sutlers have not been permitted to come further south than
Bridgeport; and had it not been for the trip into East Tennessee the brigade would have been
utterly destitute of tobacco.

While bivouacking on the Hiawasse, a citizen named Trotter, came into camp. He was an old man,
and professed to be loyal. I interrogated him on the tobacco question. He replied, "The crap
has been mitey poor fur a year or two. I don't use terbacker myself, but my wife used to chaw
it; but the frost has been a nippen of it fur a year or two, and it is so poor she has quit
chawen ontirely."

When returning from Knoxville, we passed a farm house which stood near the roadside. Three
young women were standing at the gate, and appeared to be in excellent spirits. Captain Wager
inquired if they had heard from Knoxville. "O yes," they answered, "General Longstreet has
captured Knoxville and all of General Burnside's men." "Indeed," said the Captain; "what about
Chattanooga?" "Well, we heard that Bragg had moved back to Dalton." "You have not heard, then,
that Bragg was whipped; lost sixty pieces of artillery and many thousand men?" "O no!" "You
have not heard that Longstreet was defeated at Knoxville, and compelled to fall back with heavy
loss?" "No, no; we don't believe a word of it. A man, who came from Knoxville and knows all
about it, says that you uns are retreating now as fast as you can. You can't whip our fellers."
"Well, ladies," said the Captain, "I am glad to see you feeling so well under adverse circumstances.
Good-by."

The girls were evidently determined that the Yank should not deceive them.

At another place quite a number of women and children were standing by the roadside. As the
column approached, said one of the women to a soldier: "Is these uns Yankees?" "Yes, madam,"
replied the boy, "regular blue-bellied Yankees." "We never seed any you uns before." "Well,
keep a sharp lookout and you'll see they all have horns on."

One day, while I was at Davis' quarters, near Columbus, a preacher came in and said he wanted
to sell all the property he could to the army and get greenbacks, as he desired to move to
Illinois, where his brother-in-law resided, and his Confederate notes would not be worth a
dime there. "How is that, Parson," said Davis, affecting to misunderstand him; "not worth a
damn there?" "No, sir, no, sir; not worth a dime, sir. You misunderstood me, sir. I said not
worth a dime there." "I beg your pardon, Parson," responded Davis; "I thought you said not
worth a damn there, and was surprised to hear you say so."

While we were encamped on the banks of the Hiawasse, a Union man, near seventy years old, was
murdered by guerrillas. Not long before, a young lady, the daughter of a Methodist minister,
was robbed and murdered near the same place. Murders and robberies are as common occurrences
in that portion of Tennessee as marriages in Ohio, and excite about as little attention. Horse
stealing is not considered an offense.

29. Nothing of interest has transpired to-day. Bugles, drums, drills, parades--the old story
over and over again; the usual number of corn-cakes eaten, of pipes smoked, of papers respectfully
forwarded, of how-do-ye-do's to colonels, captains, lieutenants, and soldiers. You put on your
hat and take a short walk. It does you no good. Returning you lie down on the cot, and undertake
to sleep; but you have already slept too much, and you get up and smoke again, look over an
old paper, yawn, throw the paper down, and conclude it is confoundedly dull. Jack brings in
dinner. You see somebody passing; it is Captain Clayson, the Judge-Advocate, and you cry out:
"Hold on, Captain; come in and have a bite of dinner." He concludes to do so. Being a judge-advocate
he talks law, and impresses you with the idea that every other judge-advocate has in some respects
been faulty; but he has taken pains to master his duties perfectly, and makes no mistakes.
Pretty soon Major Shane drops in, and you ask him to dine; but he has just been to dinner,
and thanks you. Observing Captain Clayson, he asks how the business of the court-martial progresses,
and says: "By the way, Captain, the sentence in that quartermaster's case was disapproved because
the record was defective." The Captain blushes. He made up the record, and it strikes him the
Major's remark is very untimely.

It is dull!

30. Took a ten-mile ride this afternoon. Two miles from camp I met Lieutenant Platt, one of
my aids. He had asked permission in the morning to go into the country to secure a lady for
a dance, which is to take place a night or two hence. I asked: "Where have you been, Lieutenant?"
"At Mrs. Calisspe's, the house on the left, yonder." I did not, of course, ask if he had been
successful in his mission; but as I approached the little frame in which Mrs. Calisspe resided,
I thought I would drop in and see what sort of a woman had drawn the Lieutenant so far from
camp. Knocking at the door, a feminine voice said "Come in," and I entered. There were three
females. The elder I took to be Mrs. Calisspe. A handsome, neatly-dressed young lady I concluded
was the one the Lieutenant sought. A heavy and rather dull woman, who stood leaning against
the wall, I set down as a dependent or servant in the family. "Beg pardon, madam, is this the
direct road to Shallow Ford?" "Yes, sir, the straight road. Won't you take a seat?" "Thank
you, no. Good evening." Trotting along over the road which Mrs. Calisspe said was straight,
but which, in fact, was exceedingly crooked, we came finally to the camp of the Thirteenth
Michigan, a regiment which General Thomas supposes to be engaged in cutting saw-logs, when,
in truth, its principal business is strolling about the country stealing chickens. It is, however,
known as the saw-log regiment.

On our return from Shallow Ford, as we approached Mrs. Calisspe's, we saw her handsome daughter
on the porch inspecting a side-saddle, and concluded from this that the gallant Lieutenant's
application had been successful, and that she proposed to accompany him to the ball on horseback.
As we galloped by the house, a little flaxen-haired, chubby boy, who had climbed the fence,
extended his head over the top rail and jabbered at us at the top of his voice; but the handsome
young lady did not favor us with even a glance.

31. It is late. Hours ago the bugles notified the boys that it was time to retire to their
dens. I have been reading Thackeray's "Lovell, the Widower," and as I sat alone in the silence
of the middle night, the scenes depicted grew distinct and life-like; the characters encompassed
me about real living men and women; the drawing-rooms, dining-halls, parlors, opened out before
me; the streets, walks, drives, were all visible, and I became a spectator instead of a reader.
Suddenly a low, unearthly wail broke the stillness, and my hair stiffened somewhat at the roots,
as the fancy struck me that I heard the voice of the defunct Mrs. Lovell. A moment's reflection,
however, dispelled this disagreeable thought. Looking toward the corner of the cabin whence
the ghostly sound emanated, I discovered a strange cat. My long-legged boots followed each
other in quick succession toward the unhappy kitten, and I yelled "scat" in a very vindictive way.

JANUARY 1, 1864.

Standing on a peak of Mission Ridge to-day, we had spread out before us one of the grandest
prospects which ever delighted the eye of man. Northward Waldron's Ridge and Lookout mountain
rose massive and precipitous, and seemed the boundary wall of the world. Below them was the
Tennessee, like a ribbon of silver; Chattanooga, with its thousands of white tents and miles
of fortifications. Southward was the Chickamauga, and beyond a succession of ridges, rising
higher and higher, until the eye rested upon the blue tops of the great mountains of North
Carolina. The fact that a hundred and fifty thousand men, with all the appliances of war, have
struggled for the possession of these mountains, rivers, and ridges, gives a solemn interest
to the scene, and renders it one of the most interesting, as it is one of the grandest, in
the world.

When history shall have recorded the thrilling tragedies enacted here; when poets shall have
illuminated every hill-top and mountain peak with the glow of their imagination; when the novelist
shall have given it a population from his fertile brain, what place can be more attractive
to the traveler?

Looking on this panorama of mountains, ridges, rivers, and valleys, one has a juster conception
of the power of God. Reflecting upon the deeds that have been done here, he obtains a truer
knowledge of the character of man, and the incontestable evidences of his nobility.

       *       *       *       *       *

Standing here to-day, I take off my hat to the reader, if by possibility there be one who has
had the patience to follow me thus far, and as I bid him good-by, wish him "A Happy New Year."

CAPTURE, IMPRISONMENT,

AND

ESCAPE,

BY

GENERAL HARRISON C. HOBART,

OF MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN.

EXPLANATORY.

Among the Union officers who escaped from Libby Prison at Richmond, on the night of the 9th
of February, 1864, was my esteemed friend, General Harrison C. Hobart, then Colonel of the
Twenty-first Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry. His name is mentioned quite frequently in the preceding
pages. Ten years after the war closed, he spent a few days at my house, and while there was
requested to tell the story of his capture, imprisonment, and escape. My children gathered
about him, and listened to his narrative with an intensity of interest which I am very sure
they never exhibited when receiving words of admonition and advice from their father.

While my manuscript was in the hands of the publishers, it occurred to me that General Hobart's
story would be as interesting to others as it had been to my own family, and so I wrote, urging
him to furnish it to me for publication. He finally consented to do so, and I have the pleasure
now of presenting it to the reader. It bears upon its face the evidence of its entire truthfulness,
and yet is as interesting as a romance.

JOHN BEATTY.

GENERAL HOBART'S NARRATIVE.

The battles of Chickamauga were fought on the 19th and 20th of September, 1863. The Twenty-first
Wisconsin, which I then commanded, formed a part of Thomas' memorable line, and fought through
the battles of Saturday and Sunday. At the close of the second day, Thomas' Corps still maintained
its position, and presented an unbroken front to the enemy, but the right of our army having
fallen back, the tide of battle was turning against us.

To avoid a flank movement, our brigade was ordered to leave the breastworks, which they had
held against the severest fire of the enemy during the day, and fall back to a second position.
Here only a portion of the men, with three regimental standards, were rallied. A rebel battery
was instantly placed in position on our right, and rebel cavalry swept between us and the retreating
army.

Being the ranking officer among those who rallied, I directed the men to cut their way through
to our retreating line. I was on the left of this movement to the rear, and, to avoid the approach
of horsemen, rapidly passed to the left through a dense cluster of small pines, and instantly
found myself in the immediate front of a rebel line of infantry. I halted, being dismounted,
and an officer advanced and offered his hand, saying that he was glad to see me, and proposed
to introduce me to his commander, General Cleburne. I replied, that I was not particularly
pleased to see him, but, under the circumstances, should not decline his invitation.

I met the General, who was mounted and being cheered by his men, and surrendered to him my
sword. He inquired where I had been fighting. I said, "Right there," pointing to the line of
Thomas' Corps. He replied, "This line has given us our chief trouble, sir; your soldiers have
fought like brave men; come with me and I will see that no one insults or interferes with you."

It was now after sun-down, and the last guns of the terrible battle of Chickamauga were dying
away along the hillsides of Mission Ridge. A large number of prisoners of war were soon gathered,
and marched to the enemy's rear across the Chickamauga. Here we witnessed the fearful results
of the battle. The ground strewed with the dead and wounded, the shattered fragments of transportation,
and a general demoralization among the forces, told the fearful price which the enemy had paid
for their victory. More than fifteen hundred soldiers, prisoners of war, camped by a large
spring to pass the remainder of a cold night; some without blankets or overcoats, and all without
provisions.

The next day we were marched about thirty miles to Tunnel Hill, where we received our first
rations from the enemy. On this march, the only food we obtained was from a field of green
sorghum. Here we were placed in box cars and taken to Atlanta. On arriving at this place, we
were first marched to an open field outside of the city, near a fountain of water, and surrounded
by a guard. Kind-hearted people came out of the city, bringing bread with them, which they
threw to us across the guard line. Immediately a second line was established, distant several
rods outside of the first, to prevent them from giving us food.

From this place we were marched to the old slave-pen, and every man, as he entered the narrow
gate, was compelled to give up his overcoat and blanket. I remonstrated with the officers for
stripping the soldiers of their necessary clothing, as an act in violation of civilized warfare
and inhuman. The men who were executing this infamous duty, did not deny these charges, but
excused themselves on the ground that they were simply obeying an order of General Bragg from
the front. That night I saw seventeen hundred Union soldiers lie down upon the ground, without
an overcoat or blanket to protect them from the cold earth, or shield them from the heavy Southern
dew.

The next morning we were ordered to take the cars, and proceed on our way to Richmond. These
men arose from the ground, cold and wet with dew, and under my command organized and formed
in column by companies, and marched to the depot through one of the main streets of Atlanta,
singing in full chorus the Star Spangled Banner. Crowds gathered around us as we entered the
cars. A guard with muskets accompanied the train.

I will here relate an incident which occurred on our way. We overtook a train of open cars,
filled with Confederate wounded from the battle-field. The two trains stopped for some time
alongside and in close proximity. It was a spectacle to see the men of the two armies intently
observe each other. On the one side was the calm, pale face of the wounded; on the other, the
earnest, deep sympathy of the captive. No unkind look or word passed between them. Of the seventeen
hundred prisoners, there was not one who would not have given his coat, or reached for his
last cent, to help his wounded brother.

On the last day of September, after traveling more than eight hundred miles from the battle-field
of Chickamauga, we arrived at Richmond, and the officers of the Cumberland Army, to the number
of about two hundred and fifty, were marched to Libby Prison.

This building has a front of about one hundred and forty feet, with a depth of about one hundred
and five. There are nine rooms, each one hundred and two feet long, by forty-five wide. The
height of ceilings from the floor is about seven feet. The building is also divided into three
apartments by brick walls, and there is a basement below.

On entering the prison, we were severally searched, and every thing of value taken from us.
Some of us saved our money by putting it into the seams of our garments before we arrived at
Richmond. The officers of the Army of the Cumberland were assigned to the middle rooms of the
second and third stories. The lower middle room was used as a general kitchen, and the basement
immediately below was fitted up with cells for the confinement and punishment of offenders.
These rooms received the sobriquet of Chickamauga.

The whole number of officers of the army and navy in prison at this time was about eleven hundred--all
having access to each other, except those in the hospital. There were no beds or chairs, and
all slept on the floor. I shared a horse blanket with Surgeon Dixon, of Wisconsin, which was
the only bedding we had for some time. Our bread was made of unbolted corn, and was cold and
clammy. We were sometimes furnished with fresh beef, corn beef, and sometimes with rice and
vegetable soup. The men formed themselves into messes, and each took his turn in preparing
such food as we could get.

At one time, no meat was furnished for about nine days, and the reason given was, that their
soldiers at the front required all they could obtain. During this period, we received nothing
but corn bread. Kind friends sent us boxes of provisions from the North, which were opened
and examined by the Confederates, and if nothing objectionable was found, and it pleased them,
the party to whom a box was sent was directed to come down and get it. Many of these were never
delivered. Every generous soul shared the contents of his box with his more unfortunate companions.
Had it not been for this provision, our life in Libby would have been intolerable.

There was no glass in the windows, and for some time no fire in the rooms. An application for
window glass, made during the severest cold weather, was answered by the assurance that the
Confederates had none to furnish. The worst affliction, however, was the vermin, which invaded
every department.

Each officer was permitted to write home the amount of three lines per week; but even these
brief messages were not always allowed to leave Richmond.

A variety of schemes were adopted to improve or kill time. We played chess, cards, opened a
theater, organized a band of minstrels, delivered lectures, established schools for teaching
dancing, singing, the French language, and military tactics, read books, published a manuscript
newspaper, held debates, and by these means rendered life tolerable, though by no means agreeable.

An incident occurred, after we had been in prison some time, which made a deep impression upon
every one. Some of our men had been confined in a block not far from Libby, called the Pemberton
Building. An order had been issued to remove them to North Carolina. When they left, their
line of march was along the street in our front, and when they passed under our windows, we
threw out drawers, shirts, stockings, etc., which they gathered up; and when they raised their
pale and emaciated faces to greet their old commanders, there were but few dry eyes in Libby.
Many of them were making their last march.

Our sick were removed to the room set apart, on the ground floor, for a hospital; and, when
one died, he was put in a box of rough boards, placed in an open wagon, and rapidly driven
away over the stony streets. There were no flowers from loving hands, and no mourning pageant,
but a thousand hearts in Libby followed the gallant dead to his place of rest.

We were seldom visited by any person. The only call I received was from General Breckenridge,
of Kentucky; I had known him before the war. During our interview, I referred to the resources
of the North and South, and asked him upon what ground he hoped the Confederacy could succeed.
His only reply was, that, "five millions of people, determined to be free, could not be conquered."

There being no exchange of prisoners at this time, projects of escape were discussed from the
beginning. One scheme was, for a few persons at a time to put on the dress of a citizen, and
attempt to pass the guard as visitors. A few actually recovered their liberty in this manner.
Another plan was, to dig a tunnel to the city sewer, which was understood to pass under the
street in front of the prison, and escape through that to the river. This project might have
succeeded had not the water interfered. The final and successful plan was as follows:

On the ground floor of the building, on a level with the street, was a kitchen containing a
fire-place, at a stove connected with which the prisoners inhabiting the rooms above did their
cooking. Beneath this floor was a basement, one of the rooms which was used as a store-room.
This store-room was under the hospital and next to the street, and though not directly under
the kitchen, was so located that it was possible to reach it by digging downward and rearward
through the masonry work of the chimney. From this basement room it was proposed to construct
a tunnel under the street to a point beneath a shed, connected with a brick block upon the
opposite side, and from this place to pass into the street in the guise of citizens. A knowledge
of this plan was confided to about twenty-five, and nothing was known of the proceedings by
the others until two or three days before the escape. A table knife, chisel, and spittoon were
secured for working tools, when operations commenced. Sufficient of the masonry was removed
from the fire-place to admit the passage of a man through a diagonal cut to the store-room
below; and an excavation was then made through the foundation wall toward the street, and the
construction of the tunnel proceeded night by night. But two persons could work at the same
time. One would enter the hole with his tools and a small tallow candle, dragging the spittoon
after him attached to a string. The other would fan air into the passage with his hat, and
with another string would draw out the novel dirt car when loaded, concealing its contents
beneath the straw and rubbish of the cellar. Each morning before daylight the working party
returned to their rooms, after carefully closing the mouth of the tunnel, and skillfully replacing
the bricks in the chimney.

An error occurred during the prosecution of this work that nearly proved fatal to the enterprise.
After a sufficient distance was supposed to have been made, an excavation was commenced to
reach the top of the ground. The person working, carefully felt his way upward, when suddenly
a small amount of the top earth fell in, and through this he could plainly see two sentinels
apparently looking at him. One said to the other, "I have been hearing a strange noise in the
ground there!" After listening a short time, the other replied that it was "nothing but rats."
The working party had not been seen. After consultation, this opening was carefully filled
with dirt and shored up. The work was then recommenced, and after digging about fifteen feet
further the objective point under the shed was successfully reached.

This tunnel required about thirty days of patient, tedious and dangerous labor. It was eight
feet below the street, between sixty and seventy feet in length, and barely large enough for
a full-grown person to crawl through, by pulling and pushing himself along with his hands and
feet. Among the officers entitled to merit in the execution of this work, Col. T. E. Rose,
of Pennsylvania, deserves particular mention.

When all was complete, the company was organized into two parties; the first under the charge
of Major McDonald, of Ohio, and the second was placed under my direction. The parties having
provided themselves with citizens' clothing, which had at different times been sent to the
prison by friends in the North, and having filled their pockets with bread and dried meat from
their boxes, commenced to escape about seven P. M., on the 9th of February, 1864; Major McDonald's
party leaving first. In order to distract the attention of the guard, a dancing party with
music was extemporized in the same room. As each one had to pass out in the immediate presence
of these Confederate soldiers, when he stepped into the street from the outside of the line,
and as the guard were under orders to fire upon a prisoner escaping, without even calling upon
him to halt, the first men who descended to the tunnel wore that quiet gloom so often seen
in the army before going into battle. It was a living drama; dancing in one part of the room,
dark shadows disappearing through the chimney in another part, and the same shadows re-appearing
upon the opposite walk, and the sentinel at his post, with a voice that rang out upon the evening
air, announcing: "Eight o'clock, Post No. One," and "All is well!" and at the same time a Yankee
soldier was passing in his front, and a line of Yankee soldiers were crawling under his feet.
The passage was so small that the process of departure was necessarily slow; a few inches of
progress only being made at each effort, and to facilitate locomotion outside garments were
taken off and pushed forward.

By this time the proceedings had become known to the whole prison, and as the first men emerged
upon the street, and quietly walked away, seen by hundreds of their fellows, who crowded the
windows, a wild excitement and enthusiasm were created, and they rushed down to the chimney,
clamoring for the privilege of going out. It was the intention of the parties, organized by
those who constructed the tunnel, that no others should leave until the next night, as it might
materially diminish their own chances of escape. But the thought of liberty and pure air, and
the death damp of the dark loathsome prison would not allow them to listen to any denial. Major
McDonald and myself then held a parley, and it was arranged that the rope upon which we descended
into the basement, after the last of the two parties had passed out, should be pulled up for
the space of one hour; then it should be free to all in prison.[A]

Having joined my fortunes with Col. T. S. West, of Wisconsin, we were among the last of the
second party who crawled through. About nine o'clock in the evening we emerged from the tunnel,
and cautiously crossing an open yard to an arched driveway, we stepped out upon the street
and slowly walked away, apparently engaged in an earnest conversation. As soon as we were out
of range of the sentinels' guns, we concluded it would be the safest course to turn and pass
up through one of the main streets of Richmond, as they would not suspect that prisoners escaping
would take that direction. My face being very pale, and my beard long, clinging to the arm
of Colonel W., I assumed the part of a decrepit old man, who seemed to be in exceeding ill
health, and badly affected with a consumptive cough.

In this manner we passed beneath the glaring gaslights, and through the crowded street, without
creating a suspicion as to our real character. We met the police, squads of soldiers, and many
others, who gave me a sympathizing look, and stepped aside on account of my apparent infirmities.
Approaching the suburbs of the town, we retreated into a ravine, which enabled us to leave
the city without passing out upon one of the streets. While in prison I copied McClellan's
war map of Virginia, which aided us materially in this escape. Our objective points were to
cross the Chickahominy above New Bridge, then cross the Yorkville Railroad, then strike and
follow down the Miamisburg pike.

After resting and breathing pure air, the first time for more than four months, we resumed
our journey, agreeing not to speak above a whisper, avoiding all houses and roads, and determining
our course by the North Star. In crossing roads, we traveled backwards, that the footsteps
might mislead our pursuers.

We soon came in sight of the main fortifications around Richmond, and instantly dropping upon
the ground we lay for a long time, listening and watching for the presence of sentinels upon
that part of the line. Being satisfied that there were none in our immediate front, in the
most silent and cautious manner, we crossed over the fortification and pursued our way through
a tangled forest. Coming to a piece of low ground, tired and exhausted, we lay down to rest.
Our attention was soon attracted by the presence of a series of excavations; and on a close
examination we found we were resting upon the battle-field of Fair Oaks, and among the trenches
in which the Confederates had buried our dead; and, although it was the midnight hour, a strange
feeling of safety stole over me, and I felt as if we were among our friends. It was the step
and voice of the living that we dreaded.

At early dawn (Wednesday) we crossed a brook, and went upon a hillside of low, thick pines
to conceal ourselves, and rest during the day. The Valley of the Chickahominy lay before us.
While in this concealment, we saw a blood-hound scenting our steps down to the place where
we jumped over the brook; it then went back and returned two or three times, but finally left
without attempting to cross the little stream. Late in the evening, we went to the river and
worked till after midnight to make or find a crossing. The water was deep and cold, and, failing
to accomplish our purpose, we turned back to a haystack, and, covering ourselves with hay,
rested until the first light of morning (Thursday).

Going back to the river, we followed down its course until we found a tree which had fallen
nearly across the stream. Discovering a long pole, we found that it would just touch the opposite
shore from the limbs of this tree. Hitching ourselves carefully along this pole, we reached
the left bank of the Chickahominy River.

We now felt as if escape was possible; but, hearing a noise like the approach of troops, for
we were satisfied that the enemy's cavalry must be in full pursuit, we fled into a neighboring
forest. As we approached the center of a thicket, my eye suddenly caught the glimpse of a man
watching us from behind the root of a fallen tree. I concluded that we had fallen into an ambush;
but our momentary apprehension was joyfully relieved by the discovery that this new-made acquaintance
was Colonel W. B. McCreary, of Michigan, and with him Major Terrence Clark, of Illinois, who
had gone through the tunnel with the first party that went out, and were now passing the day
in this secluded place. The Colonel was one of my intimate friends, and when he recognized
me he jumped to his feet and threw his arms around me in an ecstasy of delight.

By this time the whole population had been informed of the escape, and the country was alive
with pursuers. We could distinctly hear the reveille of the rebel troops, and the hum of their
camps. Thus reinforced, we agreed to travel in company. It was arranged that one of the four
should precede, searching out the way in the darkness, and giving due notice of danger.

At dark we left our hiding place, and cautiously proceeded on our way. Late at night we crossed
the railroad running from Richmond to White House, our second objective point. Here Colonel
West saw a sentinel sitting close by the railroad, asleep, with his gun resting against his
shoulder. Just before daybreak we went into a pine woods, after traveling a distance of more
than twenty miles, and, weary and tired, we lay down to rest.

The morning (Friday) broke clear and beautiful, but with its bright light came the bugle notes
of the enemy's cavalry, who were in the pines close by us. We instantly arose and fled away
at the top of our speed, expecting every moment to hear the crack of the rifle, or the sharp
command to halt. We struck a road and about faced to cross it, the only time that we looked
back. We pursued our rapid step until we came to a dense chaparral, and into this we threaded
our way until we reached an almost impenetrable jungle. Crawling into the center, we threw
ourselves upon the ground completely exhausted. A bird flew into the branches above us as we
lay upon our backs, and the words burst from my lips: "Dear little bird! Oh, that I had your
wings!"

As soon as friendly darkness again returned, we moved forward, weary, hungry, and footsore,
still governed in our course by the North Star. During all this toilsome way, but few words
passed between us, and these generally in low whispers. So untiring was the search, and so
thoroughly alarmed and watchful were the population, that we felt that our safety depended
upon a bare chance. Again making our way from wood to wood, and avoiding farm houses as best
we might, till the light of another morning (Saturday), we retired to cover in the shade of
a thick forest.

Saturday night the journey was resumed as usual. It was my turn to act the part of picket and
pilot. While rapidly leading the way through a forest of low pines, I suddenly found myself
in the presence of a cavalry reserve. The men were warming themselves by a blazing fire, and
their horses were tied to trees around them. I was surprised and alarmed; but recovering my
self-possession, I remained motionless, and soon perceived that my presence was unobserved.
Carefully putting one foot behind the other I retreated out of sight, and rapidly returned
to my party. Knowing that there were videttes sitting somewhere at the front in the dark, we
concluded to go back about two miles to a plantation, and call at one of the outermost negro
houses for information. We returned, and I volunteered to make the call while the others remained
concealed at a distance.

I approached the door and rapped, and a woman's voice from within asked, "who was there?" I
replied, that "I was a traveler and had lost my way, and wished to obtain some information
about the road." She directed me to go to another house, but I declined to do so, and after
some further conversation the door was opened, and I was surprised to find a large, good-looking
negro standing by her side, who had been listening to the interview. He invited me to come
in, and as soon as the door was closed, he said: "I know who you are; you're one of dem 'scaped
officers from Richmond." Looking him full in the face, I placed my hand firmly upon his shoulder,
and said: "I am, and I know you are my friend." His eyes sparkled as he repeated: "Yes, sir;
yes, sir; but you musn't stay here; a reg'ment of cavalry is right thar'," pointing to a place
near by, "and they pass this road all times of the night." The woman gave me a piece of corn-bread
and a cup of milk, and the man accompanying me, I left the house, and soon finding my companions,
our guide took us to a secluded spot in a canebrake, and there explained the situation of the
picket in front. It was posted on a narrow neck of land between two impassable swamps, and
over this neck ran the main road to Williamsburg. The negro proved to be a sharp, shrewd fellow,
and we engaged him to pilot us round this picket. After impressing us in his strongest language
with the danger both to him and to us of making the least noise, he conducted us through a
long canebrake path, then through several fields, then directly over the road, crossing between
the cavalry reserve and their videttes, who were sitting upon their horses but a few rods in
front, and then took us around to the pike about a mile beyond this last post of the rebels.
After obtaining important information from him concerning the way to the front, and giving
him a substantial reward, we cordially took his hand in parting. If good deeds are recorded
in Heaven, this slave appeared in the record that night.

The line of the pike was then rapidly followed as far as Diascum river, which was reached just
at light Sunday morning. To cross this river without assistance from some quarter was found
impossible. We tried to wade through it, but failed in this attempt. We were seen by some of
the neighboring population, which largely increased our danger and trepidation; for we had
been informed by our guide that the enemy's scouts came to this point every morning. After
awhile we succeeded in reaching an island in the river, but could get no farther, finding deep
water beyond. We endeavored to construct a raft but failed. The water being extremely cold,
and we being very wet and weary, we did not dare attempt to swim the stream; and expecting
every moment to see the enemy's cavalry, our hearts sank within us. At this juncture a rebel
soldier was seen coming up the river in a row-boat with a gun. Requesting my companions to
lie down in the grass, I concealed myself in the bushes close to the water to get a good view
of the man. Finding his countenance to indicate youth and benevolence, I accosted him as he
approached.

"Good morning; I have been waiting for you; they told me up at those houses that I could get
across the stream, but I find the bridge is gone, and I am very wet and cold; if you will take
me over, I will pay you for your trouble."

The boat was turned into the shore, and as I stepped into it I knew that boat was mine. Keeping
my eye upon his gun, I said to him, "there are three more of us," and they immediately stepped
into the boat. "Where do you all come from?" said the boatman, seeming to hesitate and consider.
We represented ourselves as farmers from different localities on the Chickahominy. "The officers
don't like to have me carry men over this river," he said, evidently suspecting who we were.
I replied, "that is right; you should not carry soldiers or suspected characters." Then placing
my eyes upon him, I said, "pass your boat over!" it sped to the other shore. We gave him one
or two greenbacks, and he rapidly returned. We knew we were discovered, and that the enemy's
cavalry would very soon be in hot pursuit, therefore we determined, after consultation, to
go into the first hiding place, and as near as possible to the river. The wisdom of this course
was soon demonstrated. The cavalry crossed the stream, dashed by us, and thoroughly searched
the country to the front, not dreaming but we had gone forward. We did not leave our seclusion
until about midnight, and then felt our way with extreme care. The proximity to Williamsburg
was evident from the destruction every where apparent in our path. There were no buildings,
no inhabitants, and no sound save our own weary footsteps; desolation reigned supreme. Stacks
of chimneys stood along our way like sentinels over the dead land.

For five days and six nights, hunted and almost exhausted, with the stars for our guide, we
had picked our way through surrounding perils toward the camp-fires of our friends. We knew
we were near the outposts of the Union troops, and began to feel as if our trials were nearly
over. But we were now in danger of being shot as rebels by scouting parties of our own army.
To avoid the appearance of being spies, we took the open road, alternately traveling and concealing
ourselves, that we might reconnoiter the way. About two o'clock in the morning, coming near
the shade of a dark forest that overhung the road, we were startled, and brought to a stand,
by the sharp and sudden command, "Halt!" Looking in the direction whence it proceeded, we discovered
the dark forms of a dozen cavalrymen drawn up in line across the road. A voice came out of
the darkness, asking, "who are you?" We replied, "we are four travelers!" The same voice said,
"if you are travelers, come up here!" Moving forward the cavalry surrounded us, and carefully
looking at their coats, I concluded they were gray, and was nerving myself for a recapture.
It was a supreme moment to the soul. One of my companions asked, "are you Union soldiers?"
In broad Pennsylvania language the answer came, "well we are!" In a moment their uniforms changed
to glorious blue, and taking off our hats we gave one long exultant shout. It was like passing
from death unto life. Our hearts filled with gratitude to Him whose sheltering arm had protected
us in all that dangerous way. Turning toward Richmond, I prayed in my heart that I might have
strength to return to my command.

I was afterwards in Sherman's advance to Atlanta; the March to the Sea and through the Carolinas;
entered Richmond with the Western army; and had the supreme satisfaction of marching my brigade
by Libby Prison.

FOOTNOTE:

[A] NOTE.--One hundred and nine prisoners escaped through this tunnel that night, of whom fifty-seven
reached our lines.

INDEX.

                                                              PAGE.

          March from Buckhannon West Virginia to Rich Mountain  18

          Battle of Rich Mountain                               24

          Beverly and Huttonville                               26

          Incidents at Cheat Mountain Pass                      28

          Camp at Elk Water                                     43

          The flag of truce                                     46

          Capture of De Lagniel                                 52

          The flood                                             61

          The advance and retreat of Lee                        67

          Ride to a log cabin in the mountains                  68

          Moonlight and music                                   69

          The Hoosiers stir up the enemy                        72

          The expedition to Big Springs                         75

          The accomplished colored gentleman                    78

          At Louisville Kentucky                                84

          March to Bacon Creek                                  86

          Incidents of the camp                                 87

          Trouble in the regiment                               91

          A little unpleasantness with the Colonel              97

          A case of disappointed love                           99

          The advance to Green River                           103

          The march to Nashville                               109

          A Southern lady wants protection                     112

          John Morgan on the rampage                           114

          Incidents at Nashville                               116

          March to Murfreesboro                                118

          The dash into North Alabama                          124

          General O. M. Mitchell                               127

          Rumors of the battle at Shiloh                       131

          Affair at Bridgeport                                 135

          The rendezvous of the Bushwhackers                   138

          The negro preacher                                   141

          Provost Marshal of Huntsville                        142

          Pudin' an' Tame                                      146

          Grape-vines from Richmond                            151

          Garfield and Ammen                                   156

          Two Pious men meet at Pittsburgh Landing             162

          Uncle Jacob tells a few stories                      163

          De coon am a great fiter                             167

          General Ammen as a teacher                           168

          The murder of General Robert McCook                  169

          The race for the Ohio River                          175

          The battle of Perryville, Kentucky                   176

          Pursuit of Bragg                                     182

          The Army of the Cumberland                           185

          Incidents on the way to Nashville                    186

          Colonel H. C. Hobart                                 192

          The advance on Murfreesboro                          198

          The battle of Stone River                            201

          A ride over the battle-field                         210

          The absentees                                        217

          T. Buchanan Reid, the poet                           225

          The Chiefs                                           235

          An interesting letter                                244

          The Third starts on the Streight raid                246

          A good fighter                                       252

          General Rosecrans angry                              255

          The Confederate account of Streight's surrender      267

          The lame horse                                       268

          Negley's party                                       277

          Go out to dinner                                     283

          Simon Bolivar Buckner (colored)                      284

          Advance on Tullahoma                                 285

          The retreat of the enemy                             290

          The Peace party                                      297

          Fact vs. Fiction                                     299

          Board for the examination of applicants for
            commissions in colored regiments                   312

          The advance to the Tennessee                         319

          Cross the Tennessee                                  327

          Battle of Chickamauga                                332

          Fight at Rossville                                   346

          Incidents at Chattanooga                             348

          Battle of Mission Ridge                              356

          March to Knoxville                                   359

          General Sherman's letter                             360

          Camp at McAffee's Spring                             362

          Good-by                                              372

          General H. C. Hobart's Narrative                     379

       *       *       *       *       *

Obvious punctuation errors repaired.

Page 31, "genman" changed to "gentleman" (innocent old gentleman)

Page 42, "melancholly" changed to "melancholy" (a melancholy strain)

Page 49, "rumbbling" changed to "rumbling" (with a rumbling)

Page 62, "neccesary" changed to "necessary" (give the necessary)

Page 76, "befiting" changed to "befitting" (melody befitting so)

Page 133, "imporant" changed to "important" (equally important results)

Page 133, "to to" changed to "to" (us to Mrs. Rather)

Page 154, "fo" changed to "for" (our care for)

Page 154, "th" changed to "the" (we make the)

Page 154, "establshed" changed to "established" (when once established)

Page 170, "occurences" changed to "occurrences" (occurrences could suggest)

Page 179, word "a" added to text (form a line)

Page 183, "jeolousies" changed to "jealousies" (petty jealousies existing)

Page 274, "Vallandigham" changed to "Vallandingham" (accompanied Vallandingham outside)

Page 278, "Shirked" changed to "shirked" (they shirked by)

Page 286, "Hardie's" changed to "Hardee's" (Hardee's corps was)

Page 304, "to to" change to "to" (Wilder to this)

Page 323, "cavliers" changed to "cavaliers" (of the cavaliers)

Page 323, "sure sure" changed to "sure" (quite sure Mrs.)

Page 325, "lieutenantcy" changed to "lieutenancy" (to a second lieutenancy)

Page 329, "popuulation" changed to "population" (overflowing with population)

Page 337, word "a" added to text (form a line)

Page 380, "Chicamauga" changed to "Chickamauga" (battle of Chickamauga)

Page 386, extraneous word "in" was removed from the text in the phrase: "one of the rooms which
was used as a store-room". The original read: "one of the rooms in which was used as a store-room"

Page 398, "of" changed to "off" (taking off our)

Page 400, "Bushwackers" changed to "Bushwhackers" (rendevous of the Bushwhackers)

Page 401, "Alaabma" changed to "Alabama" (into North Alabama)

Page 401, "Good-bye" changed to "Good-by" to match text.

Three instances each of secesh/sesesh were retained.

One instance each of the following words was retained:

          barefooted/bare-footed
          whitleather/whit-leather
          Jerroloman/Jerroloaman

Page 234, the section reads "an assault upon our works at twelve M." in the original. It is
unclear whether A. M. or P. M. was intended and so this was retained.

