With regard to methods of procedure in the hunting-field, enough has been said. (1) But there
are many benefits which the enthusiastic sportsman may expect to derive from this pursuit.
(2) I speak of the health which will thereby accrue to the physical frame, the quickening of
the eye and ear, the defiance of old age, and last, but not least, the warlike training which
it ensures. To begin with, when some day he has to tramp along rough ways under arms, the heavy
infantry soldier will not faint or flag--he will stand the toil from being long accustomed
to the same experiences in capturing wild beasts. In the next place, men so trained will be
capable of sleeping on hard couches, and prove brave guardians of the posts assigned them.
In the actual encounter with the enemy, they will know at once how to attack and to carry out
the word of command as it passes along the lines, because it was just so in the old hunting
days that they captured the wild game. If posted in the van of battle, they will not desert
their ranks, because endurance is engrained in them. In the rout of the enemy their footsteps
will not falter nor fail: straight as an arrow they will follow the flying foe, on every kind
of ground, through long habituation. (3) Or if their own army encounter a reverse on wooded
and precipitous ground beset with difficulties, these will be the men to save themselves with
honour and to extricate their friends; since long acquaintance with the business of the chase
has widened their intelligence. (4)

 (1) Or, "Respecting the methods employed in different forms of the
    chase, I have said my say." As to the genuineness of this and the
    following chapter see L. Dind. ad loc.; K. Lincke, "Xenophon's
    Dialog." {peri oikonomias}, p. 132.

 (2) Lit. "this work"; and in reference to the highly Xenophontine
    argument which follows see "Hellenica Essays," p. 342; cf.
    "Cyrop." I. vi. 28, 39-41.

 (3) "For the sake of 'auld lang syne.'"

 (4) Or, "will place them on the vantage-ground of experts."

Nay, even under the worst of circumstances, when a whole mob of fellow-combatants (5) has been
put to flight, how often ere now has a handful (6) of such men, by virtue of their bodily health
(7) and courage, caught the victorious enemy roaming blindly in some intricacy of ground, renewed
the fight, and routed him. Since so it must ever be; to those whose souls and bodies are in
happy case success is near at hand. (8)

 (5) Or, "allies."

 (6) Or, "a forlorn hope."

 (7) {euexia}, al. {eutaxia}, "by good discipline."

 (8) "Fortune favours the brave," reading {to eutukhesai} (L. D.); or
    if {tou eutukhesai}, (vulg.) "those whose health of soul and body
    is established are ipso facto nigh unto good fortune."

It was through knowledge that they owed success against their foes to such a training, that
our own forefathers paid so careful a heed to the young. (9) Though they had but a scant supply
of fruits, it was an immemorial custom "not to hinder (10) the hunter from hunting any of earth's
offspring"; and in addition, "not to hunt by night (11) within many furlongs of the city,"
in order that the adepts in that art might not rob the young lads of their game. They saw plainly
that among the many pleasures to which youth is prone, this one alone is productive of the
greatest blessings. In other words, it tends to make them sound of soul and upright, being
trained in the real world of actual things (12) (and, as was said before, our ancestors could
not but perceive they owed their success in war to such instrumentality (13)); and the chase
alone deprives them of none of the other fair and noble pursuits that they may choose to cultivate,
as do those other evil pleasures, which ought never to be learned. Of such stuff are good soldiers
and good generals made. (14) Naturally, those from whose souls and bodies the sweat of toil
has washed all base and wanton thoughts, who have implanted in them a passion for manly virtue--these,
I say, are the true nobles. (15) Not theirs will it be to allow their city or its sacred soil
to suffer wrong.

 (9) Al. "looked upon the chase as a pursuit incumbent on the young."

 (10) {me koluein  (dia) to meden ton epi te ge phuomenon agreuein}. The
    commentators generally omit {dia}, in which case translate as in
    text. Lenz reads {un koluein dia meden} (see his note ad v. 34),
    and translates (p. 61), "Dass man die Jager nicht hindern solle,
    in allem was die Erde hervorbrachte zu jagen," "not to hinder the
    huntsmen from ranging over any of the crops which spring from
    earth"; (but if so, we should expect {dia medenos}). Sturz, s.v.
    {agreuein}, notes "festive," "because the hunter does not hunt
    vegetable products." So Gail, "parce que le chasseur rien veut pas
    aux productions de la terre."

 (11) Or, "set their face against night-hunting," cf. "Mem." IV. vii.
    4; Plat. "Soph." 220 D; "Stranger: There is one mode of striking
    which is done at night, and by the light of a fire, and is called
    by the hunters themselves firing, or spearing by firelight"
    (Jowett); for which see Scott, "Guy Mannering," ch. x. It seems
    "night hunting was not to be practised within a certain
    considerable radius, whereby the proficients in that art might
    deprive it (lit. in order that they might not deprive) them (the
    young huntsmen) of their game."

 (12) Lit. "in truth and reality (not among visionary phantoms)."

 (13) These words are commonly regarded as an addition; and what does
    {te} signify?

 (14) Or, "Here you have the making of brave soldiers and generals.
    Here in embryo are to be found your future soldiers and generals
    worthy the name."

 (15) {outoi aristoi}: these are prima virorum, the true aristocrats.

Some people tell us it is not right to indulge a taste for hunting, lest it lead to neglect
of home concerns, not knowing that those who are benefactors of their country and their friends
are in proportion all the more devoted to domestic duties. If lovers of the chase pre-eminently
fit themselves to be useful to the fatherland, that is as much as to say they will not squander
their private means; since with the state itself the domestic fortunes of each are saved or
lost. The real fact is, these men are saviours, not of their own fortunes only, but of the
private fortunes of the rest, of yours and mine. Yet there are not a few irrational people
amongst these cavillers who, out of jealousy, would rather perish, thanks to their own baseness,
than owe their lives to the virtue of their neighbours. So true is it that the mass of pleasures
are but evil, (16) to which men succumb, and thereby are incited to adopt the worse cause in
speech and course in action. (17) And with what result?--from vain and empty arguments they
contract emnities, and reap the fruit of evil deeds, diseases, losses, death--to the undoing
of themselves, their children, and their friends. (18) Having their senses dulled to things
evil, while more than commonly alive to pleasures, how shall these be turned to good account
for the salvation of the state? Yet from these evils every one will easily hold aloof, if once
enamoured of those joys whose brief I hold, since a chivalrous education teaches obedience
to laws, and renders justice familiar to tongue and ear. (19)

 (16) See "Hellenica Essays," p. 371.

 (17) "To depravity of speech and conduct" (whether as advocates or
    performers). See Aristoph. "Clouds."

 (18) Or, "bring down on themselves, their children, and their friends
    a spring of misfortunes in the shape of diseases, losses, or even
    death."

