TALKS ON MANURES.

Printed in U. S. A.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

Farming as a Business.-- High Farming and Good Farming.--
  Summer-fallowing and Plowing under Clover.-- We must raise
  larger Crops per Acre.-- Destruction of Weeds.-- Farming is
  Slow Work.-- It requires Personal Attention.                         9

CHAPTER II.

What is Manure?-- The definitions given by the Deacon and the
  Doctor.                                                             19

CHAPTER III.

Something about Plant-food.-- All soils on which plants grow
  contain it.-- The Season.-- Water, Shade, Light, and Mulch,
  not Manures.-- Several Definitions of Manure.                       21

CHAPTER IV.

Natural Manure.-- Accumulated Plant-food in the Soil.-- Exhaustion
  of the Soil.-- Why our Crops are so Poor.-- How to get Larger
  Crops.-- We must Drain, Cultivate thoroughly, and Make Richer
  Manure.                                                             23

CHAPTER V.

Swamp-muck and Peat as Manure.-- Draining Swamp-land.--
  Composition of Peat and Muck.                                       29

CHAPTER VI.

What is Potential Ammonia.                                            31

CHAPTER VII.

Tillage is Manure.-- The Doctor’s Lecture on Manure.                  32

CHAPTER VIII.

Summer-fallowing.-- Mr. Lawes’ crop every other year.-- Wheat
  after Barley.-- For Larger Crops raise less frequently, and
  Manure Higher; also keep better Stock, and Feed Higher.             34

CHAPTER IX.

How to Restore a Worn-out Farm.-- The Author’s Farm.-- Tillage
  renders the Plant-food stored in the soil available.--
  Cultivated Lands contain less Plant-food, but are more
  productive.-- Grass alone will not make rich land.                  37

CHAPTER X.

How to Make Manure.-- We must get it out of the Land.                 41

CHAPTER XI.

The Value of the Manure depends upon the Food--not upon the
  Animal.                                                             43

CHAPTER XII.

Foods which Make Rich Manure.-- Table giving the composition of
  31 kinds of Food and the value of the Manure they yield.--
  Cotton-seed Cake.-- English and German Clover.-- Nitrogenous
  matter in Rich and Poor Foods.-- Manure from Corn compared
  with that from Straw.                                               45

CHAPTER XIII.

Horse-manure and Farm-yard Manure.-- Why the one is richer than
  the other.-- Amount of Manure from a Horse.-- Composition of
  Farm-yard Manure.-- We draw and spread a ton to get 33 lbs. of
  Nitrogen, Phosphoric Acid, and Potash.                              50

CHAPTER XIV.

Fermenting Manure.-- Composition of Manure when Fresh and in
  its stages of Fermentation.-- Loss in Fermentation and from
  Leaching.-- Tables showing the composition of Manure at
  different stages.-- Fermenting makes Manure more Soluble.           52

CHAPTER XV.

Keeping Manure under Cover.-- Dr. Vœlcker’s Experiments.-- Manure
  Fermented Outside and Under Cover.-- Loss from keeping Manure
  spread in the Barn-yard.-- Keeping well-rotted Manure in a
  Heap.-- Conclusions from Dr. Vœlcker’s Experiments.                 59

CHAPTER XVI.

An English Plan of Keeping Manure.-- Box feeding of Cattle.--
  Spreading Manure at once.-- Piling in Heaps in the Field.--
  Old Sods and Ashes from Charred Sods.                               69

CHAPTER XVII.

Soluble Phosphates in Farm-yard Manure.-- Fermented, the Manure
  has the most.-- Over 40 per cent. of the Phosphoric Acid is
  Soluble.                                                            72

CHAPTER XVIII.

How the Deacon makes Manure.-- A good plan for making poor Manure.    74

CHAPTER XIX.

How John Johnston Manages His Manure. Summer-fallows for Wheat.--
  Does not plow under Clover.-- Value of Manure from different
  foods.-- Piling Manure.-- Applies Manure to Grass-land in Fall,
  and Plows under in Spring for Corn.-- His success due to the
  Effect of Manure on Grass.-- It brought in Red Clover.              76

CHAPTER XX.

The Author’s Plan of Managing Manure.-- Piles as fast as it is
  Made.-- What it is Made of.-- Horse and Cow Manure Together.--
  Horse Manure for Bedding Pigs.-- To Prevent Freezing.-- Liquid
  Manure from Pigs.-- Bedding Sheep.-- Piling in the Field.--
  Where the Piles should be Made.-- Manure in a Basin.-- Reasons
  for Piling.-- What we Gain by Fermenting Manure.                    83

CHAPTER XXI.

Management Continued.-- Why We Ferment Manure.-- Dr. Vœlcker’s
  Experiments showing the Loss when Manure is spread in Yards.--
  Fermenting adds Nothing to Manure, but makes it more
  available.-- Mr. Lawes’ Experiments on Wheat and Barley.-- Dr.
  Vœlcker’s Results.-- Ellwander & Barry’s Experience.-- Loss of
  Ammonia by Fermenting.-- Waste from Leaching.-- How to Save the
  Liquid Manure from Cows.                                            94

CHAPTER XXII.

Manure on Dairy Farms.-- Wheat removes much more Nitrogen than
  Cheese.-- Manures for Dairy Farms.-- Letter from Hon. Harris
  Lewis.-- How to make more and better Manure on Dairy Farms.--
  How to save and apply it.-- Letter from T. L. Harison, Esq.        101

CHAPTER XXIII.

Management of Manures on Grain Farms.-- Letter from Hon. Geo.
  Geddes.-- Grain on Dairy Farms.-- Sheep on Grain Farms.-- Visit
  to John Johnston.-- Mr. Lawes’ Wheat-field.-- Mr. Geddes and
  Clover.-- Gypsum and Clover as Manures.                            111

CHAPTER XXIV.

The Cheapest Manure a Farmer can use.-- Clover vs. Tillage.-- As
  Plant-Food.-- Constituents of a Crop of Clover, as compared with
  one of Wheat.-- Making a Farm Rich by Growing Clover.              127

CHAPTER XXV.

Dr. Vœlcker’s Experiments on Clover.-- Lawes and Gilbert’s on
  Wheat.-- Clover Roots per Acre.-- Manures for Wheat.-- Liebig’s
  Manure Theory.-- Peruvian Guano on Wheat.-- Manures and the
  Quality of Wheat.-- Ammonia.-- Over 50 Bushels of Wheat to the
  Acre.                                                              135

CHAPTER XXVI.

Experiments on Clover Soils from Burcott Lodge Farm, Leighton
  Buzzard.-- Soil from Part of 11-acre Field twice Mown for Hay.--
  Soil from do. once Mown for Hay and left for Seed.-- Amount of
  Roots left in the Soil by different Crops.-- Manures for Wheat.    149

CHAPTER XXVII.

Lawes and Gilbert’s Experiments on Wheat.-- Most Valuable and
  Instructive Tables now first made accessible to the American
  Farmer.-- The growth of Wheat Year after Year on the same Land,
  unmanured, with Farm-yard Manure, and with various Organic and
  Inorganic Fertilizers.                                             170

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Lime as a Manure.-- Prof. Way’s Experiments.-- The uses of Lime in
  the Soil.-- Lime in this Country.-- Composts with Lime.            215

CHAPTER XXIX.

Manures for Barley.-- Composition of Barley, grain and straw.--
  Valuable Tables giving the Results of Lawes and Gilbert’s
  Experiments on the growth of Barley, Year after Year, on the
  same Land, without Manure, and with different kinds of Manure.--
  Manure and Rotation of Crops.                                      227

CHAPTER XXX.

Manures for Oats.-- Experiments at Rothamsted.-- Experiments of
  Mr. Bath of Virginia.-- At Moreton Farm.                           252

CHAPTER XXXI.

Manures for Potatoes.-- Peruvian Guano for Potatoes.-- Manure from
  different Foods.-- Experiments at Moreton Farm.-- Mr. Hunter’s
  Experiments.                                                       255

CHAPTER XXXII.

What Crops should Manure be Applied to?-- How, and When?-- John
  J. Thomas’ manner of Applying Manure.-- Top Dressing.-- Doct.
  Vœlcker’s Experiments.                                             265

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Manures on Permanent Meadows and Pastures.-- Experiments at
  Rothamsted.                                                        271

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Manures for Special Crops.-- Hops.-- Indian Corn.-- Turnips.--
  Mangel-Wurzel or Sugar-Beets.-- Cabbages, Parsnips, Lettuce,
  Onions, etc.                                                       274

CHAPTER XXXV.

Manures for Gardens and Orchards.-- Market Gardens.-- Seed-growing
  Farms.-- Private Gardens.-- Hot-beds.-- Manure for Nurserymen.--
  Fruit Growers.-- Hen-Manure.                                       294

CHAPTER XXXVI.

Different Kinds of Manures.-- Cow Manure.-- Sheep Manure.-- Buying
  Manure.-- Liquid Manure.-- Nightsoil and Sewage.-- Peruvian
  Guano.-- Salts of Ammonia and Nitrate of Soda.                     302

CHAPTER XXXVII.

Bone-Dust and Superphosphate of Lime.-- Bone furnishes Nitrogen
  as well as Phosphate of Lime.-- Increasing the Availability of
  Bone with Sulphuric Acid.                                          314

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

Special Manures.-- Liebig’s Views.-- Special Manure for Wheat and
  Turnips.-- Rothamsted Experiments.                                 320

CHAPTER XXXIX.

Value of Fertilizers.-- Cost per pound of the Essential
  Constituents of Fertilizers.-- Value of Guanos.-- Potash as a
  Manure.                                                            324

CHAPTER XL.

Restoring Fertility to the Soil, a Chapter by Sir John Bennet
  Lawes.-- The Treatment of a Poor Farm, to Restore it most
  Profitably.-- Meat-making the Back-bone of the System.-- The
  Use of Sheep to Manure the Soil.-- The Feeding of Cotton-seed
  Cake.-- Artificial Manures not Profitable on Poor Land.--
  The Loss of Nitrogen.-- The Formation of Nitric Acid.              342

APPENDIX.

Letter from Edward Jessop.-- From Dr. E. L. Sturtevant.-- From
  M. C. Weld.-- From Peter Henderson.-- From J. B. M. anderson.--
  Manure Statistics of Long Island.-- Letter from J. H. Rushmore.--
  Letter from John E. Backus.-- Manure in Philadelphia.-- Various
  other Letters.                                                     352

INTRODUCTION TO NEW AND ENLARGED EDITION.

Sir John Bennet Lawes kindly consented to write a Chapter for the new edition of this work.
The Deacon, the Doctor, the Squire, Charlie and myself all felt flattered and somewhat bashful
at finding ourselves in such distinguished company. I need not say that this new Chapter from
the pen of the most eminent English agricultural investigator is worthy of a very careful study.
I have read it again and again, and each time with great and renewed interest. I could wish
there was more of it. But to the intelligent and well-informed reader this Chapter will be
valued not merely for what it contains, but for what it omits. A man who knew less would write
more. Sir John goes straight to the mark, and we have here his mature views on one of the most
important questions in agricultural science and practice.

Sir John describes a tract of poor land, and tells us that the cheapest method of improving
and enriching it is, to keep a large breeding flock of sheep, and feed them American cotton-seed
cake. We are pleased to find that this is in accordance with the general teaching of our “Talks,”
as given in this book several years ago.

When this work was first published, some of my friends expressed surprise that I did not recommend
the more extended use of artificial manures. One thing is certain, since that time the use
of superphosphate has been greatly on the increase. And it seems clear that its use must be
profitable. Where I live, in Western New York, it is sown quite generally on winter wheat,
and also on barley and oats in the spring. On corn and potatoes, its use is not so common.
Whether this is because its application to these crops is not so easy, or because it does not
produce so marked an increase in the yield per acre, I am unable to say.

Our winter wheat is sown here the first, second, or (rarely) the third week in September. We
sow from one and a half to two and a quarter bushels per acre. It is almost invariably sown
with a drill. The drill has a fertilizer attachment that distributes the superphosphate at
the same time the wheat is sown. The superphosphate is not mixed with the wheat, but it drops
into the same tubes with the wheat, and is sown with it in the same drill mark. In this way,
the superphosphate is deposited where the roots of the young plants can immediately find it.
For barley and oats the same method is adopted.

It will be seen that the cost of sowing superphosphate on these crops is merely nominal. But
for corn and potatoes, when planted in hills, the superphosphate must be dropped in the hill
by hand, and, as we are almost always hurried at that season of the year, we are impatient
at anything which will delay planting even for a day. The boys want to go fishing!

This is, undoubtedly, one reason why superphosphate is not used so generally with us for corn
as for wheat, barley, and oats. Another reason may be, that one hundred pounds of corn will
not sell for anything like as much as one hundred pounds of wheat, barley, and oats.

We are now buying a very good superphosphate, made from Carolina rock phosphate, for about
one and a half cents per pound. We usually drill in about two hundred pounds per acre at a
cost of three dollars. Now, if this gives us an increase of five bushels of wheat per acre,
worth six dollars, we think it pays. It often does far better than this. Last year the wheat
crop of Western New York was the best in a third of a century, which is as far back as I have
had anything to do with farming here. From all I can learn, it is doubtful if the wheat crop
of Western New York has ever averaged a larger yield per acre since the land was first cultivated
after the removal of the original forest. Something of this is due to better methods of cultivation
and tillage, and something, doubtless, to the general use of superphosphate, but much more
to the favorable season.

The present year our wheat crop turned out exceedingly poor. Hundreds of acres of wheat were
plowed up, and the land resown, and hundreds more would have been plowed up had it not been
for the fact that the land was seeded with timothy grass at the time of sowing the wheat, and
with clover in the spring. We do not like to lose our grass and clover.

Dry weather in the autumn was the real cause of the poor yield of wheat this year. True, we
had a very trying winter, and a still more trying spring, followed by dry, cold weather. The
season was very backward. We were not able to sow anything in the fields before the first of
May, and our wheat ought to have been ready to harvest in July. On the first of May, many of
our wheat-fields, especially on clay land, looked as bare as a naked fallow.

There was here and there, a good field of wheat. As a rule, it was on naturally moist land,
or after a good summer-fallow, sown early. I know of but one exception. A neighboring nursery
firm had a very promising field of wheat, which was sown late. But their land is rich and unusually
well worked. It is, in fact, in the very highest condition, and, though sown late, the young
plants were enabled to make a good strong growth in the autumn.

In such a dry season, the great point is, to get the seed to germinate, and to furnish sufficient
moisture and food to enable the young plants to make a strong, vigorous growth of roots in
the autumn. I do not say that two hundred pounds of superphosphate per acre, drilled in with
the seed, will always accomplish this object. But it is undoubtedly a great help. It does not
furnish the nitrogen which the wheat requires, but if it will stimulate the production of roots
in the early autumn, the plants will be much more likely to find a sufficient supply of nitrogen
in the soil than plants with fewer and smaller roots.

In a season like the past, therefore, an application of two hundred pounds of superphosphate
per acre, costing three dollars, instead of giving an increase of five or six bushels per acre,
may give us an increase of fifteen or twenty bushels per acre. That is to say, owing to the
dry weather in the autumn, followed by severe weather in the winter, the weak plants on the
unmanured land may either be killed out altogether, or injured to such an extent that the crop
is hardly worth harvesting, while the wheat where the phosphate was sown may give us almost
an average crop.

Sir John B. Lawes has somewhere compared the owner of land to the owner of a coal mine. The
owner of the coal digs it and gets it to market in the best way he can. The farmer’s coal mine
consists of plant food, and the object of the farmer is to get this food into such plants,
or such parts of plants, as his customers require. It is hardly worth while for the owner of
the coal mine to trouble his head about the exhaustion of the supply of coal. His true plan
is to dig it as economically as he can, and get it into market. There is a good deal of coal
in the world, and there is a good deal of plant food in the earth. As long as the plant food
lies dormant in the soil, it is of no value to man. The object of the farmer is to convert
it into products which man and animals require.

Mining for coal is a very simple matter, but how best to get the greatest quantity of plant
food out of the soil, with the least waste and the greatest profit, is a much more complex
and difficult task. Plant food consists of a dozen or more different substances. We have talked
about them in the pages of this book, and all I wish to say here is that some of them are much
more abundant, and more readily obtained, than others. The three substances most difficult
to get at are: nitric acid, phosphoric acid and potash. All these substances are in the soil,
but some soils contain much more than others, and their relative proportion varies considerably.
The substance which is of the greatest importance, is nitric acid. As a rule, the fertility
of a soil is in proportion to the amount of nitric acid which becomes available for the use
of plants during the growing season. Many of our soils contain large quantities of nitrogen,
united with carbon, but the plants do not take it up in this form. It has to be converted into
nitric acid. Nitric acid consists of seven pounds of nitrogen and twenty pounds of oxygen.
It is produced by the combustion of nitrogen. Since these “Talks” were published, several important
facts have been discovered in regard to how plants take up nitrogen, and especially in regard
to how organic nitrogen is converted into nitric acid. It is brought about through the action
of a minute fungoid plant. There are several things necessary for the growth of this plant.
We must have some nitrogenous substance, a moderate degree of heat, say from seventy to one
hundred and twenty degrees, a moderate amount of moisture, and plenty of oxygen. Shade is also
favorable. If too hot or too cold, or too wet or too dry, the growth of the plant is checked,
and the formation of nitric acid suspended. The presence of lime, or of some alkali, is also
necessary for the growth of this fungus and the production of nitric acid. The nitric acid
unites with the lime, and forms nitrate of lime, or with soda to form nitrate of soda, or with
potash to form nitrate of potash, or salt-petre. A water-logged soil, by excluding the oxygen,
destroys this plant, hence one of the advantages of underdraining. I have said that shade is
favorable to the growth of this fungus, and this fact explains and confirms the common idea
that shade is manure.

The great object of agriculture is to convert the nitrogen of our soils, or of green crops
plowed under, or of manure, into nitric acid, and then to convert this nitric acid into profitable
products with as little loss as possible. Nitrogen, or rather nitric acid, is the most costly
ingredient in plant food, and unfortunately it is very easily washed out of the soil and lost.
Perhaps it is absolutely impossible to entirely prevent all loss from leaching; but it is certainly
well worth our while to understand the subject, and to know exactly what we are doing. In a
new country, where land is cheap, it may be more profitable to raise as large crops as possible
without any regard to the loss of nitric acid. But this condition of things does not last long,
and it very soon becomes desirable to adopt less wasteful processes.

In Lawes and Gilbert’s experiments, there is a great loss of nitric acid from drainage. In
no case has as much nitrogen been obtained in the increased crop as was applied in the manure.
There is always a loss and probably always will be. But we should do all we can to make this
loss as small as possible, consistent with the production of profitable crops.

There are many ways of lessening this loss of nitric acid. Our farmers sow superphosphate with
their wheat in the autumn, and this stimulates, we think, the growth of roots, which ramify
in all directions through the soil. This increased growth of root brings the plant in contact
with a larger feeding surface, and enables it to take up more nitric acid from its solution
in the soil. Such is also the case during the winter and early spring, when a good deal of
water permeates through the soil. The application of superphosphate, unquestionably in many
cases, prevents much loss of nitric acid. It does this by giving us a much greater growth of wheat.

I was at Rothamsted in 1879, and witnessed the injurious effect of an excessive rainfall, in
washing out of the soil nitrate of soda and salts of ammonia, which were sown with the wheat
in the autumn. It was an exceedingly wet season, and the loss of nitrates on all the different
plots was very great. But where the nitrates or salts of ammonia were sown in the spring, while
the crops were growing, the loss was not nearly so great as when sown in the autumn.

The sight of that wheat field impressed me, as nothing else could, with the importance of guarding
against the loss of available nitrogen from leaching, and it has changed my practice in two
or three important respects. I realize, as never before, the importance of applying manure
to crops, rather than to the land. I mean by this, that the object of applying manure is, not
simply to make land rich, but to make crops grow. Manure is a costly and valuable article,
and we want to convert it into plants, with as little delay as possible, which will, directly
or indirectly, bring in some money.

Our climate is very different from that of England. As a rule, we seldom have enough rain,
from the time corn is planted until it is harvested, to more than saturate the ground on our
upland soils. This year is an exception. On Sunday night, May 20, 1883, we had a northeast
storm which continued three days. During these three days, from three to five inches of rain
fell, and for the first time in many years, at this season, my underdrains discharged water
to their full capacity. Had nitrate of soda been sown on bare land previous to this rain, much
of it would, doubtless, have been lost by leaching. This, however, is an exceptional case.
My underdrains usually do not commence to discharge water before the first of December, or
continue later than the first of May. To guard against loss of nitrogen by leaching, therefore,
we should aim to keep rich land occupied by some crop, during the winter and early spring,
and the earlier the crop is sown in the autumn or late summer, the better, so that the roots
will the more completely fill the ground and take up all the available nitrogen within their
reach. I have said that this idea had modified my own practice. I grow a considerable quantity
of garden vegetables, principally for seed. It is necessary to make the land very rich. The
plan I have adopted to guard against the loss of nitrogen is this: As soon as the land is cleared
of any crop, after it is too late to sow turnips, I sow it with rye at the rate of one and
a half to two bushels per acre. On this rich land, especially on the moist low land, the rye
makes a great growth during our warm autumn weather. The rye checks the growth of weeds, and
furnishes a considerable amount of succulent food for sheep, during the autumn or in the spring.
If not needed for food, it can be turned under in the spring for manure. It unquestionably
prevents the loss of considerable nitric acid from leaching during the winter and early spring.

Buckwheat, or millet, is sometimes sown on such land for plowing under as manure, but as these
crops are killed out by the winter, they cannot prevent the loss of nitric acid during the
winter and spring months. It is only on unusually rich land that such precautions are particularly
necessary. It has been thought that these experiments of Lawes and Gilbert afford a strong
argument against the use of summer-fallows. I do not think so. A summer-fallow, in this country,
is usually a piece of land which has been seeded down one, two, and sometimes three years,
with red clover. The land is plowed in May or June, and occasionally in July, and is afterwards
sown to winter wheat in September. The treatment of the summer-fallow varies in different localities
and on different farms.

Sometimes the land is only plowed once. The clover, or sod, is plowed under deep and well,
and the after-treatment consists in keeping the surface soil free from weeds, by the frequent
use of the harrow, roller, cultivator or gang-plow. In other cases, especially on heavy clay
land, the first plowing is done early in the spring, and when the sod is sufficiently rotted,
the land is cross-plowed, and afterwards made fine and mellow by the use of the roller, harrow,
and cultivator. Just before sowing the wheat, many good, old-fashioned farmers, plow the land
again. But in this section, a summer-fallow, plowed two or three times during the summer, is
becoming more and more rare every year.

Those farmers who summer-fallow at all, as a rule, plow their land but once, and content themselves
with mere surface cultivation afterwards. It is undoubtedly true, also, that summer fallows
of all kinds are by no means as common as formerly. This fact may be considered an argument
against the use of summer-fallowing; but it is not conclusive in my mind. Patient waiting is
not a characteristic of the age. We are inclined to take risks. We prefer to sow our land to
oats, or barley, and run the chance of getting a good wheat crop after it, rather than to spend
several months in cleaning and mellowing the land, simply to grow one crop of wheat.

It has always seemed to me entirely unnecessary to urge farmers not to summer-fallow. We all
naturally prefer to see the land occupied by a good paying crop, rather than to spend time,
money, and labor, in preparing it to produce a crop twelve or fifteen months afterwards. Yet
some of the agricultural editors and many of the agricultural writers, seem to take delight
in deriding the old-fashioned summer-fallow. The fact that Lawes and Gilbert in England find
that, when land contains considerable nitric acid, the water which percolates through the soil
to the underdrains beneath, contains more nitrate of lime when the land is not occupied by
a crop, than when the roots of growing plants fill the soil, is deemed positive proof that
summer-fallowing is a wasteful practice.

If we summer-fallowed for a spring crop, as I have sometimes done, it is quite probable that
there would be a loss of nitrogen. But, as I have said before, it is very seldom that any water
passes through the soil from the time we commence the summer-fallow until the wheat is sown
in the autumn, or for many weeks afterwards. The nitrogen, which is converted into nitric acid
by the agency of a good summer-fallow, is no more liable to be washed out of the soil after
the field is sown to wheat in the autumn, than if we applied the nitrogen in the form of some
readily available manure.

I still believe in summer fallows. If I had my life to live over again, I would certainly summer-fallow
more than I have done. I have been an agricultural writer for one-third of a century, and have
persistently advocated the more extended use of the summer-fallow. I have nothing to take back,
unless it is what I have said in reference to “fall-fallowing.” Possibly this practice may
result in loss, though I do not think so.

A good summer-fallow, on rather heavy clay land, if the conditions are otherwise favorable,
is pretty sure to give us a good crop of wheat, and a good crop of clover and grass afterwards.
Of course, a farmer who has nice, clean sandy soil, will not think of summer-fallowing it.
Such soils are easily worked, and it is not a difficult matter to keep them clean without summer-fallowing.
Such soils, however, seldom contain a large store of unavailable plant food, and instead of
summer-fallowing, we had better manure. On such soils artificial manures are often very profitable,
though barn-yard manure, or the droppings of animals feeding on the land, should be the prime
basis of all attempts to maintain, or increase, the productiveness of such soils.

Since this book was first published, I do not know of any new facts in regard to the important
question of, how best to manage and apply our barn-yard manure, so as to make it more immediately
active and available. It is unquestionably true, that the same amount of nitrogen in barn-yard
manure, will not produce so great an effect as its theoretical value would indicate. There
can be no doubt, however, that the better we feed our animals, and the more carefully we save
the liquids, the more valuable and active will be the manure.

The conversion of the inert nitrogen of manures and soils, into nitric acid, as already stated,
is now known to be produced by a minute fungus. I hope it will be found that we can introduce
this bacterium into our manure piles, in such a way as to greatly aid the conversion of inert
nitrogen into nitrates.

Experiments have been made, and are still continued, at Woburn, under the auspices of the Royal
Agricultural Society of England, to ascertain, among other things, whether manure from sheep
receiving an allowance of cotton-seed cake is any richer than that from sheep, otherwise fed
alike, but having, instead of cotton-seed cake, the same amount of corn meal. We know that
such manure contains more nitrogen, and other plant food, than that from the corn meal. But
the experiments so far, though they have been continued for several years, do not show any
striking superiority of the manure from cotton-seed cake over that from corn meal. I saw the
wheat on these differently manured plots in 1879. Dr. Vœlcker and Dr. Gilbert, told me that,
one of two plots was dressed with the cotton-seed manure, and the other with the corn meal
manure, and they wanted me to say which was the most promising crop. I believe the one I said
was the better, was the cotton-seed plot. But the difference was very slight. The truth is
that such experiments must be continued for many years before they will prove anything. As
I said before, we know that the manure from the cotton-seed cake is richer in nitrogen than
that from the corn meal; but we also know that this nitrogen will not produce so great an effect,
as a much smaller amount of nitrogen in salts of ammonia, or nitrate of soda.

In going over these experiments, I was struck with the healthy and vigorous appearance of one
of the plots of wheat, and asked how it was manured. Dr. Vœlcker called out, “clover, Mr. Harris,
clover.” In England, as in America, it requires very little observation and experience to convince
any one of the value of clover. After what I have said, and what the Deacon, the Doctor, Charley
and the Squire have said, in the pages of this book, I hope no one will think that I do not
appreciate the great value of red clover as a means of enriching our land. Dr. Vœlcker evidently
thought I was skeptical on this point. I am not. I have great faith in the benefits to be derived
from the growth of clover. But I do not think it originates fertility; it does not get nitrogen
from the atmosphere. Or at any rate, we have no evidence of it. The facts are all the other
way. We have discussed this question at considerable length in the pages of this book, and
it is not necessary to say more on the subject. I would, however, particularly urge farmers,
especially those who are using phosphates freely, to grow as much clover as possible, and feed
it out on the farm, or plow it under for manure.

The question is frequently asked, whether the use of phosphates will ultimately impoverish
our farms. It may, or it may not. It depends on our general management. Theoretically, the
use of a manure furnishing only one element of plant food, if it increases the growth of crops
which are sold from the farm, must have a tendency to impoverish the land of the other elements
of plant food. In other words, the use of superphosphate furnishing only, or principally, phosphoric
acid, lime and sulphuric acid, must have a tendency to impoverish the soil of nitrogen and
potash. Practically, however, it need do nothing of the kind. If the land is well cultivated,
and if our low, rich, alluvial portions of the farm are drained, and if the hay, grass, clover,
straw and fodder crops are retained, the more phosphates we use, the richer and more productive
will the farm become. And I think it is a fact, that the farmers who use the most phosphates,
are the very men who take the greatest pains to drain their land, cultivate it thoroughly,
and make the most manure. It follows, therefore, that the use of phosphates is a national benefit.

Some of our railroad managers take this view of the subject. They carry superphosphate at a
low rate, knowing that its use will increase the freight the other way. In other words, they
bring a ton of superphosphate from the seaboard, knowing that its use will give them many tons
of freight of produce, from the interior to the seaboard. It is not an uncommon thing for two
hundred pounds of superphosphate, to give an increase of five tons of turnips per acre. Or,
so to speak, the railroad that brings one ton of superphosphate from the seaboard, might, as
the result of its use, have fifty tons of freight to carry back again. This is perhaps an exceptionably
favorable instance, but it illustrates the principle. Years ago, before the abolition of tolls
on the English turnpike roads, carriages loaded with lime, and all other substances intended
for manure, were allowed to go free. And our railroads will find it to their interest to transport
manures of all kinds, at a merely nominal rate.

Many people will be surprised at the recommendation of Sir John B. Lawes, not to waste time
and money in cleaning poor land, before seeding it down to grass. He thinks that if the land
is made rich, the superior grasses overgrow the bad grasses and weeds. I have no doubt he is
right in this, though the principle may be pushed to an extreme. Our climate, in this country,
is so favorable for killing weeds, that the plow and the cultivator will probably be a more
economical means of making our land clean, than the liberal use of expensive manures. It depends,
doubtless, on the land and on circumstances. It is well to know that manure on grass land,
will so increase the growth of the good grasses, as to smother the weeds. Near my house was
a piece of land that I wanted to make into a lawn. I sowed it with grass seed, but the weeds
smothered it out. I plowed it, and hoed it, and re-seeded it, but still the weeds grew. Mallows
came up by the thousand, with other weeds too numerous to mention. It was an eye-sore. We mowed
the weeds, but almost despaired of ever making a decent bit of grass land out of it. It so
happened that, one year, we placed the chicken coops on this miserable weedy spot. The hens
and chickens were kept there for several weeks. The feed and the droppings made it look more
unsightly than ever, but the next spring, as if by magic, the weeds were gone and the land
was covered with dark green luxuriant grass.

In regard to the use of potash as a manure, we have still much to learn. It would seem that
our grain crops will use soda, if they cannot get potash. They much prefer the potash, and
will grow much more luxuriantly where, in the soil or manure, in addition to the other elements
of plant food, potash is abundant. But the increased growth caused by the potash, is principally,
if not entirely, straw, or leaves and stem. Nature makes a great effort to propagate the species.
A plant of wheat or barley, will produce seed if this is possible, even at the expense of the
other parts of the plant.

For grain crops, grown for seed, therefore, it would seem to be entirely unprofitable to use
potash as a manure. If the soil contains the other elements of plant food, the addition of
potash may give us a much more luxuriant growth of leaves and stem, but no more grain or seed.
For hay, or grass or fodder crops, the case is very different, and potash may often be used
on these crops to great advantage.

I am inclined to think that considerable nitrate of soda will yet be used in this country for
manure. I do not suppose it will pay as a rule, on wheat, corn and other standard grain crops.
But the gardener, seed grower, and nurseryman, will find out how to use it with great profit.
Our nurserymen say that they cannot use artificial manures with any advantage. It is undoubtedly
true that a dressing of superphosphate, sown on a block of nursery trees, will do little good.
It never reaches the roots of the plants. Superphosphate can not be washed down deep into the
soil. Nitrate of soda is readily carried down, as deep as the water sinks. For trees, therefore,
it would seem desirable to apply the superphosphate before they are planted, and plow it under.
And the same is true of potash; but nitrate of soda would be better applied as a top-dressing
every year, early in the spring.

The most discouraging fact, in Lawes’ and Gilbert’s experiments, is the great loss of nitrogen.
It would seem that, on an average, during the last forty years, about one-half the nitrogen
is washed out of the soil, or otherwise lost. I can not but hope and believe that, at any rate
in this country, there is no such loss in practical agriculture. In Lawes’ and Gilbert’s experiments
on wheat, this grain is grown year after year, on the same land. Forty annual crops have been
removed. No clover is sown with the wheat, and great pains are taken to keep the land clean.
The crop is hoed while growing, and the weeds are pulled out by hand. The best wheat season
during the forty years, was the year 1863. The poorest, that of 1879; and it so happened, that
after an absence of thirty years, I was at Rothamsted during this poor year of 1879. The first
thing that struck me, in looking at the experimental wheat, was the ragged appearance of the
crop. My own wheat crop was being cut the day I left home, July 15. Several men and boys were
pulling weeds out of the experimental wheat, two weeks later. Had the weeds been suffered to
grow, Sir John Bennet Lawes tells us, there would be less loss of nitrogen. The loss of nitrogen
in 1863, was about twenty-four pounds per acre, and in 1879 fifty pounds per acre--the amount
of available nitrogen, applied in each year, being eighty-seven pounds per acre. As I said
before, the wheat in 1879 had to me a ragged look. It was thin on the ground. There were not
plants enough to take up and evaporate the large amount of water which fell during the wet
season. Such a condition of things rarely occurs in this country. We sow timothy with our winter
wheat, in the autumn, and red clover in the spring. After the wheat is harvested, we frequently
have a heavy growth of clover in the autumn. In such circumstances I believe there would be
comparatively little loss of nitrogen.

In the summer-fallow experiments, which have now been continued for twenty-seven years, there
has been a great loss of nitrogen. The same remarks apply to this case. No one ever advocates
summer-fallowing land every other year, and sowing nothing but wheat. When we summer-fallow
a piece of land for wheat, we seed it down with grass and clover. There is, as a rule, very
little loss of nitrogen by drainage while the wheat is growing on the ground, but after the
wheat is cut, the grass and clover are pretty sure to take up all the available nitrogen within
the range of their roots. This summer-fallow experiment, instead of affording an argument against
the use of summer-fallowing, is an argument in its favor. The summer-fallow, by exposing the
soil to the decomposing influences of the atmosphere, converts more or less of the inert nitrogenous
organic matter into ammonia and nitric acid. This is precisely what a farmer wants. It is just
what the wheat crop needs. But we must be very careful, when we render the nitrogen soluble,
to have some plant ready to take it up, and not let it be washed out of the soil during the
winter and early spring.

We have much poor land in the United States, and an immense area of good land. The poor land
will be used to grow timber, or be improved by converting more or less of it, gradually, into
pasture, and stocking it with sheep and cattle. The main point is, to feed the sheep or cattle
with some rich nitrogenous food, such as cotton-seed cake, malt-sprouts, bran, shorts, mill-feed,
refuse beans, or bean-meal made from beans injured by the weevil, or bug. In short, the owner
of such land must buy such food as will furnish the most nutriment and make the richest manure
at the least cost--taking both of these objects into consideration. He will also buy more or
less artificial manures, to be used for the production of fodder crops, such as corn, millet,
Hungarian grass, etc. and, as soon as a portion of the land can be made rich enough, he will
grow more or less mangel wurzels, sugar beets, turnips, and other root crops. Superphosphate
will be found admirably adapted for this purpose, and two, three, or four hundred pounds of
cheap potash salts, per acre, can frequently be used on fodder crops, in connection with two
or three hundred pounds of superphosphate, with considerable profit. The whole subject is well
worthy of careful study. Never in the history of the world has there been a grander opportunity
for the application of science to the improvement of agriculture than now.

On the richer lands, the aim of the farmer will be to convert the plant food lying dormant
in the soil into profitable crops. The main point is good tillage. In many cases weeds now
run away with half our crops and all our profits. The weeds which spring up after the grain
crops are harvested, are not an unmixed evil. They retain the nitrogen and other plant food,
and when turned under make manure for the succeeding crops. But weeds among the growing crop
are evil, and only an evil. Thorough plowing is the remedy, accompanied by drainage where needed.

We have an immense number of farms on which there are both good and poor land. In such cases
we must adopt a combined system. We must grow large crops on the rich land and use them, at
least in part, to make manure for the poorer portions of the farm. Drainage and good tillage
will convert much of our low, alluvial lands into a perfect mine of wealth. And much of our
high, rolling land consists of strong loam, abounding in plant food. Such land requires little
more than thorough tillage, with perhaps two hundred pounds of superphosphate per acre, to
enable it to produce good grain crops.

After all is said and done, farming is a business that requires not merely science, but industry,
economy, and common sense. The real basis of success is faith, accompanied with good works.
I cannot illustrate this better than by alluding to one of my neighbors, a strong, healthy,
intelligent, observing and enterprising German, who commenced life as a farm laborer, and is
to-day worth at least one hundred thousand dollars, that he has made, not by the advance of
suburban property, but by farming, pure and simple. He first rented a farm, and then bought
it, and in a few years he bought another farm adjoining the first one, and would to-day buy
another if he found one that suited him. He has faith in farming. Some people think he “runs
his land,” and, in fact, such is the case. He keeps good teams, and good plows, and good harrows,
and good rollers, and good cultivators, and good grade Shorthorn cows. He acts as though he
believed, as Sir John B. Lawes says, that “the soil is a mine,” out of which he digs money.
He runs his land for all it is worth. He raises wheat, barley, oats, corn, potatoes, and hay,
and when he can get a good price for his timothy hay, he draws it to market and sells it. Thorough
tillage is the basis of his success. He is now using phosphates for wheat, and will probably
increase his herd of cows and make more manure. He has great faith in manure, but acts as though
he had still greater faith in good plowing, early sowing, and thorough cultivation.

PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION.

The Printers have got our “Talks on Manures” in type; and the publishers want a Preface.

The Deacon is busy hoeing his corn; the Doctor is gone to Rice Lake, fishing; Charley is cultivating
mangels; the Squire is haying, and I am here alone, with a pencil in hand and a sheet of blank
paper before me. I would far rather be at work. In fact, I have only just come in from the field.

Now, what shall I say? It will do no good to apologize for the deficiencies of the book. If
the critics condescend to notice it at all, nothing I can say will propitiate their favor,
or moderate their censure. They are an independent set of fellows! I know them well, I am an
old editor myself, and nothing would please me better than to sit down and write a slashing
criticism of these “Talks on Manures.”

But I am denied that pleasure. The critics have the floor.

All I will say here, is, that the book is what it pretends to be. Some people seem to think
that the “Deacon” is a fictitious character. Nothing of the kind. He is one of the oldest farmers
in town, and lives on the farm next to me. I have the very highest respect for him. I have
tried to report him fully and correctly. Of my own share in the conversations I will say little,
and of the Doctor’s nothing. My own views are honestly given. I hold myself responsible for
them. I may contradict in one chapter what I have asserted in another. And so, probably, has
the Deacon. I do not know whether this is or is not the case. I know very well that on many
questions “much can be said on both sides”--and very likely the Deacon is sometimes on the
south side of the fence and I on the north side; and in the next chapter you may find the Deacon
on the north side, and where would you have me go, except to the south side? We cannot see
both sides of the fence, if both of us walk on the same side!

I fear some will be disappointed at not finding a particular subject discussed.

I have talked about those things which occupy my own thoughts. There are some things not worth
thinking about. There are others beyond my reach.

I have said nothing about manures for cotton or for the sugar-cane--not because I feel no interest
in the matter, but because I have had no experience in the cultivation of these important crops.
I might have told what the crops contain, and could have given minute directions for furnishing
in manure the exact quantity of plant-food which the crops remove from the soil. But I have
no faith in such a system of farming. The few cotton-planters I have had the pleasure of seeing
were men of education and rare ability. I cannot undertake to offer them advice. But I presume
they will find that, if they desire to increase the growth of the cotton-plant, in nine cases
out of ten they can do it, provided the soil is properly worked, by supplying a manure containing
available nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash. But the proper proportion of these ingredients
of plant-food must be ascertained by experiment, and not from a mere analysis of the cotton-plant.

I have much faith in artificial manures. They will do great things for American agriculture--directly,
and indirectly. Their general use will lead to a higher system of farming--to better cultivation,
more root and fodder crops, improved stock, higher feeding, and richer manure. But it has been
no part of my object to unduly extol the virtues of commercial manures. That may be left to
the manufacturers.

My sympathy is with the farmer, and especially with the farmer of moderate means, who finds
that improved farming calls for more and more capital. I would like to encourage such a man.
And so, in point of fact, would the Deacon, though he often talks as though a man who tries
to improve his farm will certainly come to poverty. Such men as the Deacon are useful neighbors
if their doubts, and head-shakings, and shoulder-shruggings lead a young and enthusiastic farmer
to put more energy, industry, and economy into his business. It is well to listen to the Deacon--to
hear all his objections, and then to keep a sharp look-out for the dangers and difficulties,
and go-ahead.

TALKS ON MANURES.

CHAPTER I.

FARMING AS A BUSINESS.

“Farming is a poor business,” said the Deacon. “Take the corn crop. Thirty bushels per acre
is a fair average, worth, at 75 cents per bushel, $22.50. If we reckon that, for each bushel
of corn, we get 100 lbs. of stalks, this would be a ton and a half per acre, worth at $5 per
ton $7.50.”

  Total receipts per acre for corn crop                     $30 00
  Expenses.--Preparing the land for the crop         $5 00
             Planting and seed                        1 50
             Cultivating, three times,
               twice in a row both ways               5 00
             Hoeing twice                             3 00
             Cutting up the corn                      1 50
             Husking and drawing in the corn          4 00
             Drawing in the stalks, etc.              1 00
             Shelling, and drawing to market          2 00
  Total cost of the crop                             -----  $23 00
                                                            ------
  Profit per acre                                            $7 00

“And from this,” said the Deacon, “we have to deduct interest on land and taxes. I tell you,
farming is a poor business.”

“Yes,” I replied, “poor farming is a very poor business. But good farming, if we have good
prices, is as good a business as I want, and withal as pleasant. A good farmer raises 75 bushels
of corn per acre, instead of 30. The Judge is a good farmer, and particularly successful in
raising potatoes and selling them at a good price to hotels and private families. He cultivates
very thoroughly, plants in hills, and puts a handful of ashes, plaster, and hen-manure, on
the hill.

In 1873, his crop of Peachblows was at the rate of 208 bushels per acre. Of these, 200 bushels
were sold at 60 cents per bushel. There were 8 bushels of small potatoes, worth say 12½ cents
per bushel, to feed out to stock.

Mr. Sloe, who lives on an adjoining farm, had three acres of Peachblow potatoes the same year.
The yield was 100 bushels per acre--of which 25 bushels were not large enough for market, he
got 50 cents per bushel for the others.

The account of the two crops stands as follows:

  -----------------------------------------+----------+---------
           Expenses Per Acre:              | Mr. Sloe | Judge.
  -----------------------------------------+----------+---------
  Plowing, harrowing, rolling, marking,    |          |
      planting and covering                | $ 8 00   | $ 8 00
  Seed                                     |   5 00   |   5 00
  Hoeing, cultivating, etc.                |   7 00   |  10 00
  Digging                                  |  10 00   |  10 00
                                           +----------+---------
                                           |  30 00   |  33 00
              Receipts Per Acre:         |          |
  75 bushels, @ 50c                        |  37 50   |
  25  ”       @ 12½c                       |   3 12   |
                                           +----------+---------
                                           |  40 62   |
  200 bushels, @ 60c                       |          | 120 00
    8   ”      @ 12½c                      |          |   1 00
                                           |          +---------
                                           |          | 121 00
                                           +----------+---------
  Profit per acre                          | $10 62   | $98 00
  -----------------------------------------+----------+---------

Since then, Mr. Sloe has been making and using more manure, and the year before last (1875)
his crop of potatoes averaged over 200 bushels per acre, and on the sandy knolls, where more
manure was applied, the yield was at least 250 bushels per acre.

“Nevertheless,” said the Deacon, “I do not believe in ‘high farming.’ It will not pay.”

“Possibly not,” I replied. “It depends on circumstances; and these we will talk about presently.
High farming aims to get large crops every year. Good farming produces equally large crops
per acre, but not so many of them. This is what I am trying to do on my own farm. I am aiming
to get 35 bushels of wheat per acre, 80 bushels of shelled corn, 50 bushels of barley, 90 bushels
of oats, 300 bushels of potatoes, and 1,200 bushels of mangel-wurzel per acre, on the average.
I can see no way of paying high wages except by raising large crops per acre. But if I get
these large crops it does not necessarily follow that I am practising ‘high farming.’”

To illustrate: Suppose I should succeed in getting such crops by adopting the following plan.
I have a farm of nearly 300 acres, one quarter of it being low, alluvial land, too wet for
cultivation, but when drained excellent for pasturing cows or for timothy meadows. I drain
this land, and after it is drained I dam up some of the streams that flow into it or through
it, and irrigate wherever I can make the water flow. So much for the low land.

The upland portion of the farm, containing say 200 acres, exclusive of fences, roads, buildings,
garden, etc., is a naturally fertile loam, as good as the average wheat land of Western New
York. But it is, or was, badly “run down.” It had been what people call “worked to death;”
although, in point of fact, it had not been half-worked. Some said it was “wheated to death,”
others that it had been “oated to death,” others that it had been “grassed to death,” and one
man said to me, “That field has had sheep on it until they have gnawed every particle of vegetable
matter out of the soil, and it will not now produce enough to pasture a flock of geese.” And
he was not far from right--notwithstanding the fact that sheep are thought to be, and are,
the best animals to enrich land. But let me say, in passing, that I have since raised on that
same field 50 bushels of barley per acre, 33 bushels of Diehl wheat, a great crop of clover,
and last year, on a part of it, over 1,000 bushels of mangel-wurzel per acre.

But this is a digression. Let us carry out the illustration. What does this upland portion
of the farm need? It needs underdraining, thorough cultivation, and plenty of manure. If I
had plenty of manure, I could adopt high farming. But where am I to get plenty of manure for
200 acres of land? “Make it,” says the Deacon. Very good; but what shall I make it of? “Make
it out of your straw and stalks and hay.” So I do, but all the straw and stalks and hay raised
on the farm when I bought it would not make as much manure as “high farming” requires for five
acres of land. And is this not true of half the farms in the United States to-day? What then,
shall we do?

The best thing to do, theoretically, is this: Any land that is producing a fair crop of grass
or clover, let it lie. Pasture it or mow it for hay. If you have a field of clayey or stiff
loamy land, break it up in the fall, and summer-fallow it the next year, and sow it to wheat
and seed it down with clover. Let it lie two or three years in clover. Then break it up in
July or August, “fall-fallow” it, and sow it with barley the next spring, and seed it down
again with clover.

Sandy or light land, that it will not pay to summer-fallow, should have all the manure you
can make, and be plowed and planted with corn. Cultivate thoroughly, and either seed it down
with the corn in August, or sow it to barley or oats next spring, and seed it down with clover.
I say, theoretically this is the best plan to adopt. But practically it may not be so, because
it may be absolutely necessary that we should raise something that we can sell at once, and
get money to live upon or pay interest and taxes. But the gentlemen who so strenuously advocate
high farming, are not perhaps often troubled with considerations of this kind. Meeting them,
therefore, on their own ground, I contend that in my case “high farming” would not be as profitable
as the plan hinted at above.

The rich alluvial low land is to be pastured or mown; the upland to be broken up only when
necessary, and when it is plowed to be plowed well and worked thoroughly, and got back again
into clover as soon as possible. The hay and pasture from the low land, and the clover and
straw and stalks from the upland, would enable us to keep a good many cows and sheep, with
more or less pigs, and there would be a big pile of manure in the yard every spring. And when
this is once obtained, you can get along much more pleasantly and profitably.

“But,” I may be asked, “when you have got this pile of manure can not you adopt high farming?”
No. My manure pile would contain say: 60 tons of clover-hay; 20 tons wheat-straw; 25 tons oat,
barley, and pea-straw; 40 tons meadow-hay; 20 tons corn-stalks; 20 tons corn, oats, and other
grain; 120 tons mangel-wurzel and turnips.

This would give me about 500 tons of well-rotted manure. I should want 200 tons of this for
the mangels and turnips, and the 300 tons I should want to top-dress 20 acres of grass land
intended for corn and potatoes the next year. My pile of manure, therefore, is all used up
on 25 to 30 acres of land. In other words, I use the unsold produce of 10 acres to manure one.
Is this “high farming?” I think in my circumstances it is good farming, but it is not high
farming. It gives me large crops per acre, but I have comparatively few acres in crops that
are sold from the farm.

“High farming,” if the term is to have any definite meaning at all should only be used to express
the idea of a farm so managed that the soil is rich enough to produce maximum crops every year.
If you adopt the system of rotation quite general in this section--say, 1st year, corn on sod;
2d, barley or oats; 3d, wheat; 4th, clover for hay and afterwards for seed; 5th, timothy and
clover for hay; and then the 6th year plowed up for corn again--it would be necessary to make
the land rich enough to produce say 100 bushels shelled corn, 50 bushels of barley, 40 bushels
of wheat, 3 tons clover-hay, and 5 bushels of clover-seed, and 3 tons clover and timothy-hay
per acre. This would be moderate high farming. If we introduced lucern, Italian rye-grass,
corn-fodder, and mangel-wurzel into the rotation, we should need still richer land to produce
a maximum growth of these crops. In other words, we should need more manure.

The point I am endeavoring to get at, is this: Where you want a farm to be self-supporting--where
you depend solely on the produce of the farm to supply manure--it is a sheer impossibility
to adopt high farming on the whole of your land. I want to raise just as large crops per acre
as the high farmers, but there is no way of doing this, unless we go outside the farm for manure,
without raising a smaller area of such crops as are sold from the farm.

I do not wish any one to suppose that I am opposed to high farming. There is occasionally a
farm where it may be practised with advantage, but it seems perfectly clear to my mind that
as long as there is such an unlimited supply of land, and such a limited supply of fertilizers,
most of us will find it more profitable to develop the latent stores of plant-food lying dormant
in the soil rather than to buy manures. And it is certain that you can not adopt high farming
without either buying manure directly, or buying food to feed to animals that shall make manure
on the farm.

And you must recollect that high farming requires an increased supply of labor, and hired help
is a luxury almost as costly as artificial fertilizers.

We have heard superficial thinkers object to agricultural papers on the ground that they were
urging farmers to improve their land and produce larger crops, “while,” say they, “we are producing
so much already that it will not sell for as much as it costs to produce it.” My plan of improved
agriculture does not necessarily imply the production of any more wheat or of any more grain
of any kind that we sell than we raise at present. I would simply raise it on fewer acres,
and thus lessen the expense for seed, cultivation, harvesting, etc. I would raise 30 bushels
of wheat per acre every third year, instead of 10 bushels every year.

If we summer-fallowed and plowed under clover in order to produce the 30 bushels of wheat once
in three years, instead of 10 bushels every year, no more produce of any kind would be raised.
But my plan does not contemplate such a result. On my own farm I seldom summer-fallow, and
never plow under clover. I think I can enrich the farm nearly as much by feeding the clover
to animals and returning the manure to the land. The animals do not take out more than from
five to ten per cent of the more valuable elements of plant-food from the clover. And so my
plan, while it produces as much and no more grain to sell, adds greatly to the fertility of
the land, and gives an increased production of beef, mutton, wool, butter, cheese, and pork.

“But what is a man to do who is poor and has poor land?” If he has good health, is industrious,
economical, and is possessed of a fair share of good common sense, he need have no doubt as
to being able to renovate his farm and improve his own fortune.

Faith in good farming is the first requisite. If this is weak, it will be strengthened by exercise.
If you have not faith, act as though you had.

Work hard, but do not be a drudge. A few hours’ vigorous labor will accomplish a great deal,
and encourage you to continued effort. Be prompt, systematic, cheerful, and enthusiastic. Go
to bed early and get up when you wake. But take sleep enough. A man had better be in bed than
at the tavern or grocery. Let not friends, even, keep you up late; “manners is manners, but
still your elth’s your elth.”

“But what has this to do with good farming?” More than chemistry and all the science of the
schools. Agriculture is an art and must be followed as such. Science will help--help enormously--but
it will never enable us to dispense with industry. Chemistry throws great light on the art
of cooking, but a farmer’s wife will roast a turkey better than a Liebig.

When Mr. James O. Sheldon, of Geneva. N.Y., bought his farm, his entire crop of hay the first
year was 76 loads. He kept stock, and bought more or less grain and bran, and in eleven years
from that time his farm produced 430 loads of hay, afforded pasture for his large herd of Shorthorn
cattle, and produced quite as much grain as when he first took it.

Except in the neighborhood of large cities, “high farming” may not pay, owing to the fact that
we have so much land. But whether this is so or not, there can be no doubt that the only profitable
system of farming is to raise large crops on such land as we cultivate. High farming gives
us large crops, and many of them. At present, while we have so much land in proportion to population,
we must, perhaps, be content with large crops of grain, and few of them. We must adopt the
slower but less expensive means of enriching our land from natural sources, rather than the
quicker, more artificial, and costly means adopted by many farmers in England, and by market
gardeners, seed-growers, and nurserymen in this country. Labor is so high that we can not afford
to raise a small crop. If we sow but half the number of acres, and double the yield, we should
quadruple our profits. I have made up my mind to let the land lie in clover three years, instead
of two. This will lessen the number of acres under cultivation, and enable us to bestow more
care in plowing and cleaning it. And the land will be richer, and produce better crops. The
atmosphere is capable of supplying a certain quantity of ammonia to the soil in rains and dews
every year, and by giving the wheat crop a three years supply instead of two years, we gain
so much. Plaster the clover, top-dress it in the fall, if you have the manure, and stimulate
its growth in every way possible, and consume all the clover on the land, or in the barn-yard.
Do not sell a single ton; let not a weed grow, and the land will certainly improve.

The first object should be to destroy weeds. I do not know how it is in other sections, but
with us the majority of farms are completely overrun with weeds. They are eating out the life
of the land, and if something is not done to destroy them, even exorbitantly high prices can
not make farming profitable. A farmer yesterday was contending that it did not pay to summer-fallow.
He has taken a run-down farm, and a year ago last spring he plowed up ten acres of a field,
and sowed it to barley and oats. The remainder of the field he summer-fallowed, plowing it
four times, rolling and harrowing thoroughly after each plowing. After the barley and oats
were off, he plowed the land once, harrowed it and sowed Mediterranean wheat. On the summer-fallow
he drilled in Diehl wheat. He has just threshed, and got 22 bushels per acre of Mediterranean
wheat after the spring crop, at one plowing, and 26 bushels per acre of Diehl wheat on the
summer-fallow. This, he said, would not pay, as it cost him $20 per acre to summer-fallow,
and he lost the use of the land for one season. Now this may be all true, and yet it is no
argument against summer-fallowing. Wait a few years. Farming is slow work. Mr. George Geddes
remarked to me, when I told him I was trying to renovate a run-down farm, “you will find it
the work of your life.” We ought not to expect a big crop on poor, run-down land, simply by
plowing it three or four times in as many months. Time is required for the chemical changes
to take place in the soil. But watch the effect on the clover for the next two years, and when
the land is plowed again, see if it is not in far better condition than the part not summer-fallowed.
I should expect the clover on the summer-fallow to be fully one-third better in quantity, and
of better quality than on the other part, and this extra quantity of clover will make an extra
quantity of good manure, and thus we have the means of going on with the work of improving
the farm.

“Yes,” said the Doctor, “and there will also be more clover-roots in the soil.”

“But I can not afford to wait for clover, and summer-fallowing,” writes an intelligent New
York gentleman, a dear lover of good stock, who has bought an exhausted New England farm, “I
must have a portion of it producing good crops right off.” Very well. A farmer with plenty
of money can do wonders in a short time. Set a gang of ditchers to work, and put in underdrains
where most needed. Have teams and plows enough to do the work rapidly. As soon as the land
is drained and plowed, put on a heavy roller. Then sow 500 lbs. of Peruvian guano per acre
broadcast, or its equivalent in some other fertilizer. Follow with a Shares’ harrow. This will
mellow the surface and cover the guano without disturbing the sod. Follow with a forty-toothed
harrow, and roll again, if needed, working the land until there is three or four inches of
fine, mellow surface soil. Then mark off the land in rows as straight as an arrow, and plant
corn. Cultivate thoroughly, and kill every weed. If the ditchers can not get through until
it is too late to plant corn, drill in beans on the last drained part of the field.

Another good crop to raise on a stock farm is corn-fodder. This can be drilled in from time
to time as the land can be got ready. Put on half a ton of guano per acre and harrow in, and
then mark off the rows three feet apart, and drill in four bushels of corn per acre. Cultivate
thoroughly, and expect a great crop. By the last of July, the Ayrshire cows will take kindly
to the succulent corn-fodder, and with three or four quarts of meal a day, it will enable each
of them to make 10 lbs. of butter a week.

For the pigs, sow a few acres of peas. These will do well on sod-land, sown early or late,
or a part early and a part late, as most convenient. Sow broadcast and harrow in, 500 lbs.
of Peruvian guano per acre and 200 lbs. of gypsum. Drill in three bushels of peas per acre,
or sow broadcast, and cover them with a Shares’ harrow. Commence to feed the crop green as
soon as the pods are formed, and continue to feed out the crop, threshed or unthreshed, until
the middle of November. Up to this time the bugs do comparatively little damage. The pigs will
thrive wonderfully on this crop, and make the richest and best of manure.

I have little faith in any attempt to raise root crops on land not previously well prepared.
But as it is necessary to have some mangel-wurzel and Swede turnips for the Ayrshire cows and
long-wool sheep next winter and spring, select the cleanest and richest land that can be found
that was under cultivation last season. If fall plowed, the chances of success will be doubled.
Plow the land two or three times, and cultivate, harrow, and roll until it is as mellow as
a garden. Sow 400 lbs. of Peruvian guano and 300 lbs. of good superphosphate per acre broadcast,
and harrow them in. Ridge up the land into ridges 2½ to 3 ft. apart, with a double mould-board
plow. Roll down the ridges with a light roller, and drill in the seed. Sow the mangel-wurzel
in May--the earlier the better--and the Swedes as soon afterwards as the land can be thoroughly
prepared. Better delay until June rather than sow on rough land.

The first point on such a farm will be to attend to the grass land. This affords the most hopeful
chance of getting good returns the first year. But no time is to be lost. Sow 500 lbs. of Peruvian
guano per acre on all the grass land and on the clover, with 200 lbs. of gypsum in addition
on the latter. If this is sown early enough, so that the spring rains dissolve it and wash
it into the soil, great crops of grass may be expected.

“But will it pay?” My friend in New York is a very energetic and successful business man, and
he has a real love for farming, and I have no sort of doubt that, taking the New York business
and the farm together, they will afford a very handsome profit. Furthermore, I have no doubt
that if, after he has drained it, he would cover the whole farm with 500 lbs. of Peruvian guano
per acre, or its equivalent, it would pay him better than any other agricultural operation
he is likely to engage in. By the time it was on the land the cost would amount to about $20
per acre. If he sells no more grass or hay from the farm than he would sell if he did not use
the guano, this $20 may very properly be added to the permanent capital invested in the farm.
And in this aspect of the case, I have no hesitation in saying it will pay a high rate of interest.
His bill for labor will be as much in one case as in the other; and if he uses the guano he
will probably double his crops. His grass lands will carry twenty cows instead of ten, and
if he raises the corn-fodder and roots, he can probably keep thirty cows better than he could
otherwise keep a dozen; and, having to keep a herdsman in either case, the cost of labor will
not be much increased. “But you think it will not pay?” It will probably not pay him. I do
not think his business would pay me if I lived on my farm, and went to New York only once or
twice a week. If there is one business above all others that requires constant attention, it
is farming--and especially stock-farming. But my friend is right in saying that he cannot afford
to wait to enrich his land by clover and summer-fallowing. His land costs too much; he has
a large barn and everything requisite to keep a large stock of cattle and sheep. The interest
on farm and buildings, and the money expended in labor, would run on while the dormant matter
in the soil was slowly becoming available under the influence of good tillage. The large barn
must be filled at once, and the only way to do this is to apply manure with an unsparing hand.
If he lived on the farm, I should have no doubt that, by adopting this course, and by keeping
improved stock, and feeding liberally, he could make money. Perhaps he can find a man who will
successfully manage the farm under his direction, but the probabilities are that his present
profit and pleasure will come from the gratification of his early love for country life.

CHAPTER II.

WHAT IS MANURE?

“What is the good of asking such a question as that?” said the Deacon; “we all know what manure
is.”

“Well, then,” I replied, “tell us what it is?”

“It is anything that will make crops grow better and bigger,” replied the Deacon.

“That is not a bad definition,” said I; “but let us see if it is a true one. You have two rows
of cabbage in the garden, and you water one row, and the plants grow bigger and better. Is
water manure? You cover a plant with a hand-glass, and it grows bigger and better. Is a hand-glass
manure? You shelter a few plants, and they grow bigger and better. Is shelter manure? You put
some pure sand round a few plants, and they grow bigger and better. Is pure sand manure? I
think we shall have to reject the Deacon’s definition.”

Let us hear what the Doctor has to say on the subject.

“Manure,” replied the Doctor, “is the food of plants.”

“That is a better definition,” said I; “but this is really not answering the question. You
say manure is plant-food. But what is plant-food?”

“Plant-food,” said the Doctor, “is composed of twelve elements, and, possibly, sometimes one
or two more, which we need not here talk about. Four of these elements are gases, oxygen, hydrogen,
carbon, and nitrogen. When a plant or animal is burnt, these gases are driven off. The ashes
which remain are composed of potash, soda, lime, and magnesia; sulphuric acid, phosphoric acid,
chlorine, and silica. In other words, the ‘food of plants’ is composed of four organic, or
gaseous elements, and eight inorganic, or mineral elements, of which four have acid and four
alkaline properties.”

“Thank you, Doctor,” said the Deacon, “I am glad to know what manure is. It is the food of
plants, and the food of plants is composed of four gases, four acid and four alkaline elements.
I seem to know all about it. All I have wanted to make my land rich was plenty of manure, and
now I shall know where to get it--oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen; these four atmospheric
elements. Then potash, soda, magnesia, and lime. I know what these four are. Then sulphur,
phosphorous, silica (sand,) and chlorine (salt). I shall soon have rich land and big crops.”

Charley, who has recently come home from college, where he has been studying chemistry, looked
at the Deacon, and was evidently puzzled to understand him. Turning to the Doctor, Charley
asked modestly if what the Doctor had said in regard to the composition of plant food could
not be said of the composition of all our animals and plants.

“Certainly,” replied the Doctor, “all our agricultural plants and all our animals, man included,
are composed of these twelve elements, oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen; phosphorus,
sulphur, silica, chlorine, potash, soda, magnesia, and lime.”

Charley said something about lime, potash, and soda, not being “elements;” and something about
silica and chlorine not being found in animals.

“Yes,” said I, “and he has left out iron, which is an important constituent of all our farm
crops and animals.” Neither the Doctor nor the Deacon heard our remarks. The Deacon, who loves
an argument, exclaimed: “I thought I knew all about it. You told us that manure was the food
of plants, and that the food of plants was composed of the above twelve elements; and now you
tell us that man and beast, fruit and flower, grain and grass, root, stem, and branch, all
are composed or made up of these same dozen elements. If I ask you what bread is made of, you
say it is composed of the dozen elements aforesaid. If I ask what wheat-straw is made of, you
answer, the dozen. If I ask what a thistle is made of, you say the dozen. There are a good
many milk-weeds in my strawberry patch, and I am glad to know that the milk-weed and the strawberry
are both composed of the same dozen elements. Manure is the food of plants, and the food of
plants is composed of the above dozen elements, and every plant and animal that we eat is also
composed of these same dozen elements, and so I suppose there is no difference between an onion
and an omelet, or between bread and milk, or between mangel-wurzel and manure.”

“The difference,” replied the Doctor, “is one of proportion. Mangels and manure are both composed
of the same elements. In fact, mangels make good manure, and good manure makes good mangels.”

The Deacon and the Doctor sat down to a game of backgammon, and Charley and I continued the
conversation more seriously.

CHAPTER III.

SOMETHING ABOUT PLANT-FOOD.

“The Doctor is in the main correct,” said I; “but he does not fully answer the question, ‘What
is manure?’ To say that manure is plant-food, does not cover the whole ground. All soils on
which plants grow, contain more or less plant-food. A plant can not create an atom of potash.
It can not get it from the atmosphere. We find potash in the plant, and we know that it got
it from the soil and we are certain, therefore, that the soil contains potash. And so of all
the other mineral elements of plants. A soil that will produce a thistle, or a pig-weed, contains
plant-food. And so the definition of the Doctor is defective, inasmuch as it makes no distinction
between soil and manure. Both contain plant-food.”

“What is your definition of manure?” asked Charley; “it would seem as though we all knew what
manure was. We have got a great heap of it in the yard, and it is fermenting nicely.”

“Yes,” I replied, “we are making more manure on the farm this winter than ever before. Two
hundred pigs, 120 large sheep, 8 horses, 11 cows, and a hundred head of poultry make considerable
manure; and it is a good deal of work to clean out the pens, pile the manure, draw it to the
field, and apply it to the crops. We ought to know something about it; but we might work among
manure all our lives, and not know what manure is. At any rate, we might not be able to define
it accurately. I will, however, try my hand at a definition.

“Let us assume that we have a field that is free from stagnant water at all seasons of the
year; that the soil is clean, mellow, and well worked seven inches deep, and in good order
for putting in a crop. What the coming ‘season’ will be we know not. It may be what we call
a hot, dry summer, or it may be cool and moist, or it may be partly one and partly the other.
The ‘season’ is a great element of uncertainty in all our farming calculations; but we know
that we shall have a season of some kind. We have the promise of seed-time and harvest, and
we have never known the promise to fail us. Crops, however, vary very much, according to the
season; and it is necessary to bear this fact in mind. Let us say that the sun and heat, and
rain and dews, or what we call ‘the season,’ is capable of producing 50 bushels of wheat per
acre, but that the soil I have described above, does not produce over 20 bushels per acre.
There is no mechanical defect in the soil. The seed is good, it is put in properly, and at
the right time, and in the best manner. No weeds choke the wheat plants or rob them of their
food; but that field does not produce as much wheat by 30 bushels per acre as the season is
capable of producing. Why? The answer is evident. Because the wheat plants do not find food
enough in the soil. Now, anything that will furnish this food, anything that will cause that
field to produce what the climate or season is capable of producing, is manure. A gardener
may increase his crops by artificial heat, or by an increased supply of water, but this is
not manure. The effect is due to improved climatic conditions. It has nothing to do with the
question of manure. We often read in the agricultural papers about ‘shade as manure.’ We might
just as well talk about sunlight as ‘manure.’ The effects observed should be referred to modifications
of the climate or season; and so in regard to mulching. A good mulch may often produce a larger
increase of growth than an application of manure. But mulch, proper, is not manure. It is climate.
It checks evaporation of moisture from the soil. We might as well speak of rain as manure as
to call a mulch manure. In fact, an ordinary shower in summer is little more than a mulch.
It does not reach the roots of plants; and yet we see the effect of the shower immediately
in the increased vigor of the plants. They are full of sap, and the drooping leaves look refreshed.
We say the rain has revived them, and so it has; but probably not a particle of the rain has
entered into the circulation of the plant. The rain checked evaporation from the soil and from
the leaves. A cool night refreshes the plants, and fills the leaves with sap, precisely in
the same way. All these fertilizing effects, however, belong to climate. It is inaccurate to
associate either mulching, sunshine, shade, heat, dews, or rain, with the question of manure,
though the effect may in certain circumstances be precisely the same.”

Charley evidently thought I was wandering from the point. “You think, then,” said he, “manure
is plant-food that the soil needs?”

“Yes,” said I, “that is a very good definition--very good, indeed, though not absolutely accurate,
because manure is manure, whether a particular soil needs it or not.” Unobserved by us, the
Deacon and the Doctor had been listening to our talk. --“I would like,” said the Deacon, “to
hear you give a better definition than Charley has given.” --“Manure,” said I, “is anything
containing an element or elements of plant-food, which, if the soil needed it, would, if supplied
in sufficient quantity, and in an available condition, produce, according to soil, season,
climate, and variety, a maximum crop.”

CHAPTER IV.

NATURAL MANURE.

We often hear about “natural” manure. I do not like the term, though I believe it originated
with me. It is not accurate; not definite enough.

“I do not know what you mean by natural manure,” said the Deacon, “unless it is the droppings
of animals.” --“To distinguish them, I suppose,” said the Doctor, “from artificial manures,
such as superphosphate, sulphate of ammonia, and nitrate of soda.” --“No; that is not how I
used the term. A few years ago, we used to hear much in regard to the ‘exhaustion of soils.’
I thought this phrase conveyed a wrong idea. When new land produces large crops, and when,
after a few years, the crops get less and less, we were told that the farmers were exhausting
their land. I said, no; the farmers are not exhausting the soil; they are merely exhausting
the accumulated plant-food in the soil. In other words, they are using up the natural manure.

“Take my own farm. Fifty years ago, it was covered with a heavy growth of maple, beech, black
walnut, oak, and other trees. These trees had shed annual crops of leaves for centuries. The
leaves rot on the ground; the trees also, age after age. These leaves and other organic matter
form what I have called natural manure. When the land is cleared up and plowed, this natural
manure decays more rapidly than when the land lies undisturbed; precisely as a manure-pile
will ferment and decay more rapidly if turned occasionally, and exposed to the air. The plowing
and cultivating renders this natural manure more readily available. The leaves decompose, and
furnish food for the growing crop.”

EXHAUSTION OF THE SOIL.

“You think, then,” said the Doctor, “that when a piece of land is cleared of the forest, harrowed,
and sown to wheat; plowed and planted to corn, and the process repeated again and again, until
the land no longer yields profitable crops, that it is the ‘natural manure,’ and not the soil,
that is exhausted?”

“I think the soil, at any rate, is not exhausted, and I can easily conceive of a case where
even the natural manure is very far from being all used up.”

“Why, then,” asked the Deacon, “is the land so poor that it will scarcely support a sheep to
the acre?”

“Simply because the natural manure and other plant-food which the soil contains is not in an
available condition. It lies dead and inert. It is not soluble, and the roots of the plants
cannot get enough of it to enable them to thrive; and in addition to this, you will find as
a matter of fact that these poor ‘exhausted’ farms are infested with weeds, which rob the growing
crops of a large part of the scanty supply of available plant-food.”

“But these weeds,” said the Deacon, “are not removed from the farm. They rot on the land; nothing
is lost.”

“True,” said I, “but they, nevertheless, rob the growing crops of available plant-food. The
annual supply of plant-food, instead of being used to grow useful plants, is used to grow weeds.”

“I understand that,” said the Deacon, “but if the weeds are left on the land, and the useful
plants are sold, the farmer who keeps his land clean would exhaust his land faster than the
careless farmer who lets his land lie until it is overrun with thistles, briars, and pig-weed.
You agricultural writers, who are constantly urging us to farm better and grow larger crops,
seem to overlook this point. As you know, I do not take much stock in chemical theories as
applied to agriculture, but as you do, here is a little extract I cut from an agricultural
paper, that seems to prove that the better you work your land, and the larger crops you raise,
the sooner you exhaust your land.”

The Deacon put on his spectacles, drew his chair nearer the lamp on the table, and read the
following:

“There is, on an average, about one-fourth of a pound of potash to every one hundred pounds
of soil, and about one-eighth of a pound of phosphoric acid, and one-sixteenth of a pound of
sulphuric acid. If the potatoes and the tops are continually removed from the soil, it will
soon exhaust the potash. If the wheat and straw are removed, it will soon exhaust the phosphate
of lime; if corn and the stalks, it will soon exhaust the sulphuric acid. Unless there is a
rotation, or the material the plant requires is supplied from abroad, your crops will soon
run out, though the soil will continue rich for other plants.”

“That extract,” said I, “carries one back twenty-five years. We used to have article after
article in this strain. We were told that ‘always taking meal out of the tub soon comes to
the bottom,’ and always taking potash and phosphoric acid from the soil will soon exhaust the
supply. But, practically, there is really little danger of our exhausting the land. It does
not pay. The farmer’s resources will be exhausted long before he can exhaust his farm.”

“Assuming,” said the Doctor, who is fond of an argument, “that the above statement is true,
let us look at the facts. An acre of soil, 12 inches deep, would weigh about 1,600 tons; and
if, as the writer quoted by the Deacon states, the soil contains 4 ozs. of potash in every
100 lbs. of soil, it follows that an acre of soil, 12 inches deep, contains 8,000 lbs. of potash.
Now, potatoes contain about 20 per cent of dry matter, and this dry matter contains say, 4
per cent of ash, half of which is potash. It follows, therefore, that 250 bushels of potatoes
contain about 60 lbs. of potash. If we reckon that the tops contain 20 lbs. more, or 80 lbs.
in all, it follows that the acre of soil contains potash enough to grow an annual crop of 250
bushels of potatoes per acre for one hundred years.”

“I know farmers,” said Charley, “who do not get over 50 bushels of potatoes per acre, and in
that case the potash would last five hundred years, as the weeds grown with the crop are left
on the land, and do not, according to the Deacon, exhaust the soil.”

“Good for you, Charley,” said the Doctor. “Now let us see about the phosphoric acid, of which
the soil, according to the above statement, contains only half as much as it contains of potash,
or 4,000 lbs. per acre.

“A crop of wheat of 30 bushels per acre,” continued the Doctor, “contains in the grain about
26 lbs. of ash, and we will say that half of this ash is phosphoric acid, or 13 lbs. Allowing
that the straw, chaff, etc., contain 7 lbs. more, we remove from the soil in a crop of wheat
of 30 bushels per acre, 20 lbs. of phosphoric acid, and so, according to the above estimate,
an acre of soil contains phosphoric acid to produce annually a crop of wheat and straw of 30
bushels per acre for two hundred years.

“The writer of the paragraph quoted by the Deacon,” continued the Doctor, “selected the crops
and elements best suited to his purpose, and yet, according to his own estimate, there is sufficient
potash and phosphoric acid in the first 12 inches of the soil to enable us to raise unusually
large crops until the next Centennial in 1976.

“But let us take another view of the subject,” continued the Doctor. “No intelligent farmer
removes all the potatoes and tops, all the wheat, straw, and chaff, or all the corn and stalks
from his farm. According to Dr. Salisbury, a crop of corn of 75 bushels per acre removes from
the soil 600 lbs. of ash, but the grain contains only 46 lbs. The other 554 lbs. is contained
in the stalks, etc., all of which are usually retained on the farm. It follows from this, that
when only the grain is sold off the farm, it takes more than thirteen crops to remove as much
mineral matter from the soil as is contained in the whole of one crop. Again, the ash of the
grain contains less than 3 per cent of sulphuric acid, so that the 46 lbs. of ash, in 75 bushels
of corn, contains less than 1½ lbs. of sulphuric acid, and thus, if an acre of soil contains
2,000 lbs. of sulphuric acid, we have sufficient for an annual crop of 75 bushels per acre
for fifteen hundred years!

“As I said before,” continued the Doctor, “intelligent farmers seldom sell their straw, and
they frequently purchase and consume on the farm nearly as much bran, shorts, etc., as is sent
to market with the grain they sell. In the ‘Natural History of New York,’ it is stated that
an acre of wheat in Western New York, of 30 bushels per acre, including straw, chaff, etc.,
removes from the soil 144 lbs. of mineral matter. Genesee wheat usually yields about 80 per
cent. of flour. This flour contains only 0.7 per cent of mineral matter, while fine middlings
contain 4 per cent; coarse middlings, 5½ per cent; shorts, 8 per cent, and bran 8½ per cent
of mineral matter or ash. It follows from this, that out of the 144 lbs. of mineral matter
in the crop of wheat, less than 10 lbs. is contained in the flour. The remaining 134 lbs. is
found in the straw, chaff, bran, shorts, etc., which a good farmer is almost sure to feed out
on his farm. But even if the farmer feeds out none of his wheat-bran, but sells it all with
his wheat, the 30 bushels of wheat remove from the soil only 26 lbs. of mineral matter; and
it would take more than five crops to remove as much mineral matter as one crop of wheat and
straw contains. Allowing that half the ash of wheat is phosphoric acid, 30 bushels remove only
13 lbs. from the soil, and if the soil contains 4,000 lbs., it will take three hundred and
seven crops, of 30 bushels each, to exhaust it.”

“That is to say,” said Charley, “if all the straw and chaff is retained on the farm, and is
returned to the land without loss of phosphoric acid.”

“Yes,” said the Doctor, “and if all the bran and shorts, etc., were retained on the farm, it
would take eight hundred crops to exhaust the soil of phosphoric acid; and it is admitted that
of all the elements of plant-food, phosphoric acid is the one first to be exhausted from the soil.”

I have sold some timothy hay this winter, and propose to do so whenever the price suits. But
some of my neighbors, who do not hesitate to sell their own hay, think I ought not to do so,
because I “write for the papers”! It ought to satisfy them to know that I bring back 30 cwt.
of bran for every ton of hay I sell. My rule is to sell nothing but wheat, barley, beans, potatoes,
clover-seed, apples, wool, mutton, beef, pork, and butter. Everything else is consumed on the
farm--corn, peas, oats, mustard, rape, mangels, clover, straw, stalks, etc. Let us make a rough
estimate of how much is sold and how much retained on a hundred-acre farm, leaving out the
potatoes, beans, and live-stock. We have say:

    Sold.
  15 acres wheat,  @ 40 bushels per acre                  18 tons
   5   ”   barley, @ 50    ”       ”                       6  ”
  15   ”   clover seed, 4  ”       ”                       1¾ ton.
                                                          ------
        Total sold                                        25¾ tons.

    Retained on the farm.
  15 acres corn, @ 80 bushels per acre                    33½ tons.
  Corn stalks from do.                                    40   ”
   5 acres barley straw                                    8   ”
  10   ”   oats and peas, equal 80 bushels of oats        12¾  ”
  Straw from do.                                          20   ”
  15 acres wheat-straw                                    25   ”
  15   ”   clover-hay                                     25   ”
  Clover-seed straw                                       10   ”
  15 acres pasture and meadow, equal 40 tons hay          40   ”
   5   ”   mustard, equal 10 tons hay                     10   ”
   5   ”   rape, equal 10 tons hay                        10   ”
   5   ”   mangels, 25 tons per acre,                     15   ”
               equal to 3 tons dry
  Leaves from do.                                          3   ”
                                                         -------
          Total retained on the farm                     252¼ tons.

It would take a good many years to exhaust any ordinary soil by such a course of cropping.
Except, perhaps, the sandy knolls, I think there is not an acre on my farm that would be exhausted
in ten thousand years, and as some portions of the low alluvial soil will grow crops without
manure, there will be an opportunity to give the poor, sandy knolls more than their share of
plant-food. In this way, notwithstanding the fact that we sell produce and bring nothing back,
I believe the whole farm will gradually increase in productiveness. The plant-food annually
rendered available from the decomposition and disintegration of the inert organic and mineral
matter in the soil, will be more than equal to that exported from the farm. If the soil becomes
deficient in anything, it is likely that it will be in phosphates, and a little superphosphate
or bone-dust might at any rate be profitably used on the rape, mustard, and turnips.

The point in good farming is to develop from the latent stores in the soil, and to accumulate
enough available plant-food for the production of the largest possible yield of those crops
which we sell. In other words, we want enough available plant-food in the soil to grow 40 bushels
of wheat and 50 bushels of barley. I think the farmer who raises 10 tons for every ton he sells,
will soon reach this point, and when once reached, it is a comparatively easy matter to maintain
this degree of fertility.

WHY OUR CROPS ARE SO POOR.

“If the soil is so rich in plant-food,” said the Deacon, “I again ask, why are our crops so poor?”

The Deacon said this very quietly. He did not seem to know that he had asked one of the most
important questions in the whole range of agricultural science. It is a fact that a soil may
contain enough plant-food to produce a thousand large crops, and yet the crops we obtain from
it may be so poor as hardly to pay the cost of cultivation. The plant-food is there, but the
plants cannot get at it. It is not in an available condition; it is not soluble. A case is
quoted by Prof. Johnson, where a soil was analyzed, and found to contain to the depth of one
foot 4,652 lbs. of nitrogen per acre, but only 63 lbs. of this was in an available condition.
And this is equally true of phosphoric acid, potash, and other elements of plant-food. No matter
how much plant-food there may be in the soil, the only portion that is of any immediate value
is the small amount that is annually available for the growth of crops.

HOW TO GET LARGER CROPS.

“I am tired of so much talk about plant-food,” said the Deacon; “what we want to know is how
to make our land produce larger crops of wheat, corn, oats, barley, potatoes, clover, and grass.”

This is precisely what I am trying to show. On my own farm, the three leading objects are (1)
to get the land drained, (2) to make it clean and mellow, and (3) to get available nitrogen
for the cereal crops. After the first two objects are accomplished, the measure of productiveness
will be determined by the amount of available nitrogen in the soil. How to get available nitrogen,
therefore, is my chief and ultimate object in all the operations on the farm, and it is here
that science can help me. I know how to get nitrogen, but I want to get it in the cheapest
way, and then to be sure that I do not waste it.

There is one fact fully established by repeated experiment and general experience--that 80
lbs. of available nitrogen per acre, applied in manure, will almost invariably give us a greatly
increased yield of grain crops. I should expect, on my farm, that on land which, without manure,
would give me 15 bushels of wheat per acre, such a dressing of manure would give me, in a favorable
season, 35 or 40 bushels per acre, with a proportional increase of straw; and, in addition
to this, there would be considerable nitrogen left for the following crop of clover. Is it
not worth while making an earnest effort to get this 80 lbs. of available nitrogen?

I have on my farm many acres of low, mucky land, bordering on the creek, that probably contain
several thousand pounds of nitrogen per acre. So long as the land is surcharged with water,
this nitrogen, and other plant-food, lies dormant. But drain it, and let in the air, and the
oxygen decomposes the organic matter, and ammonia and nitric acid are produced. In other words,
we get available nitrogen and other plant-food, and the land becomes capable of producing large
crops of corn and grass; and the crops obtained from this low, rich land, will make manure
for the poorer, upland portions of the farm.

CHAPTER V.

SWAMP-MUCK OR PEAT AS MANURE.

“It would pay you,” said the Deacon, “to draw out 200 or 300 loads of muck from the swamp every
year, and compost it with your manure.”

This may or may not be the case. It depends on the composition of the muck, and how much labor
it takes to handle it.

“What you should do,” said the Doctor, “is to commence at the creek, and straighten it. Take
a gang of men, and be with them with yourself, or get a good foreman to direct operations.
Commence at a, and straighten the creek to b, and from b to c (see map on next page). Throw
all the rich, black muck in a heap by itself, separate from the sand. You, or your foreman,
must be there, or you will not get this done. A good ditcher will throw out a great mass of
this loose muck and sand in a day; and you want him to dig, not think. You must do the thinking,
and tell him which is muck, and which is only sand and dirt. When thrown up, this muck, in
our dry, hot climate, will, in the course of a few months, part with a large amount of water,
and it can then be drawn to the barns and stables, and used for bedding, or for composting
with manure. Or if you do not want to draw it to the barn, get some refuse lime from the lime-kiln,
and mix it with the muck after it has been thrown up a few weeks, and is partially dry. Turn
over the heap, and put a few bushels of lime to every cord of the muck, mixing the lime and
muck together, leaving the heap in a compact form, and in good shape, to shed the rain.

“When you have straightened, and cleaned out, and deepened the creek,” continued the Doctor,
“commence at z on the new creek, and cut a ditch through the swamp to y. Throw the muck on
one side, and the sand on the other. This will give you some good, rich muck, and at the same
time drain your swamp. Then cut some under-drains from y towards the higher land at w, v, and
h, and from f to x. These will drain your land, and set free the inert plant-food, and such
crops of timothy as you will get from this swamp will astonish the natives, and your bill for
medical attendance and quinine will sink to zero.”

The Doctor is right. There is money and health in the plan.

Prof. S. W. Johnson, as chemist to the Conn. State Ag. Society, made accurate analyses of 33
samples of peat and muck sent him by gentlemen from different parts of the State. The amount
of potential ammonia in the chemically dry peat was found to vary from 0.58 in the poorest,
to 4.06 per cent in the richest samples. In other words, one deposit of muck may contain seven
times as much nitrogen as another, and it would be well before spending much money in drawing
out muck for manure to send a sample of it to some good chemist. A bed of swamp-muck, easily
accessible, and containing 3 per cent of nitrogen, would be a mine of wealth to any farmer.
One ton of such muck, dry, would contain more nitrogen than 7 tons of straw.

“It would be capital stuff,” said the Deacon, “to put in your pig-pens to absorb the urine.
It would make rich manure.”

“That is so,” said I, “and the weak point in my pig-breeding is the want of sufficient straw.
Pigs use up more bedding than any other animals. I have over 200 pigs, and I could use a ton
of dry muck to each pig every winter to great advantage. The pens would be drier, the pigs
healthier, and the manure richer.”

The Doctor here interrupted us. “I see,” said he, “that the average amount of ammonia in the
33 samples of dry peat analyzed by Professor Johnson is 2.07 per cent. I had no idea that muck
was so rich. Barn-yard manure, or the manure from the horse stables in the cities, contains
only half a per cent (0.5) of ammonia, and it is an unusually rich manure that contains one
per cent. We are safe in saying that a ton of dry muck, on the average, contains at least twice
as much potential ammonia as the average of our best and richest stable-manure.”

CHAPTER VI.

WHAT IS POTENTIAL AMMONIA?

“You say,” said the Deacon, “that dry muck contains twice as much ‘potential ammonia’ as manure?”

“Yes,” said the Doctor, “it contains three or four times as much as the half-rotted straw and
stalks you call manure.”

“But what do you mean,” asked the Deacon, “by ‘potential ammonia?’”

“It is a term,” said the Doctor, “we used to hear much more frequently than we do now. Ammonia
is composed of 14 lbs. of nitrogen and 3 lbs. of hydrogen; and if, on analysis, a guano or
other manure was found to contain, in whatever form, 7 per cent of nitrogen, the chemist reported
that he found in it 8½ per cent of ‘potential’ ammonia. Dried blood contains no ammonia, but
if it contained 14 per cent of nitrogen, the chemist would be justified in saying it contained
17 per cent of potential ammonia, from the fact that the dried blood, by fermentation, is capable
of yielding this amount of ammonia. We say a ton of common horse-manure contains 10 or 12 lbs.
of potential ammonia. If perfectly fresh, it may not contain a particle of ammonia; but it
contains nitrogen enough to produce, by fermentation, 10 or 12 lbs. of ammonia. And when it
is said that dry swamp-muck contains, on the average, 2.07 per cent of potential ammonia, it
simply means that it contains nitrogen enough to produce this amount of ammonia. In point of
fact, I suppose muck, when dug fresh from the swamp, contains no ammonia. Ammonia is quite
soluble in water, and if there was any ammonia in the swamp-muck, it would soon be washed out.
The nitrogen, or ‘potential ammonia,’ in the muck exists in an inert, insoluble form, and before
the muck will yield up this nitrogen to plants, it is necessary, in some way, to ferment or
decompose it. But this is a point we will discuss at a future meeting.”

CHAPTER VII.

TILLAGE IS MANURE.

The Doctor has been invited to deliver a lecture on manure before our local Farmers’ Club.
“The etymological meaning of the word manure,” he said, “is hand labor, from main, hand, and
ouvrer, to work. To manure the land originally meant to cultivate it, to hoe, to dig, to plow,
to harrow, or stir it in any way so as to expose its particles to the oxygen of the atmosphere,
and thus render its latent elements assimilable by plants.

“When our first parent,” he continued, “was sent forth from the Garden of Eden to till the
ground from whence he was taken, he probably did not know that the means necessary to kill
the thorns and thistles enhanced the productiveness of the soil, yet such was undoubtedly the case.

“The farmer for centuries was simply a ‘tiller of the ground.’ Guano, though formed, according
to some eminent authorities, long ages before the creation of man, was not then known. The
coprolites lay undisturbed in countless numbers in the lias, the greensand, and the Suffolk
crag. Charleston phosphates were unknown. Superphosphate, sulphate of ammonia, nitrate of soda,
and kainit were not dreamed of. Nothing was said about the mineral manure theory, or the exhaustion
of the soil. There were no frauds in artificial fertilizers; no Experiment Stations. The earth,
fresh from the hands of its Creator, needed only to be ‘tickled with a hoe to laugh with a
harvest.’ Nothing was said about the value of the manure obtained from the consumption of a
ton of oil-cake, or malt-combs, or bran, or clover-hay. For many centuries, the hoe, the spade,
and the rake constituted Adam’s whole stock in trade.

“At length,” continued the Doctor, “a great discovery was made. A Roman farmer--probably a
prominent Granger--stumbled on a mighty truth. Manuring the land--that is, hoeing and cultivating
it--increased its fertility. This was well known--had been known for ages, and acted upon;
but this Roman farmer, Stercutius, who was a close observer, discovered that the droppings
of animals had the same effect as hoeing. No wonder these idolatrous people voted him a god.
They thought there would be no more old-fashioned manuring; no more hoeing.

“Of course they were mistaken,” continued the Doctor, “our arable land will always need plowing
and cultivating to kill weeds. Manure, in the sense in which we now use the term, is only a
partial substitute for tillage, and tillage is only a partial substitute for manure; but it
is well to bear in mind that the words mean the same thing, and the effects of both are, to
a certain extent, identical. Tillage is manure, and manure is tillage.”

CHAPTER VIII.

SUMMER-FALLOWING.

This is not the place to discuss the merits, or demerits, of fallowing. But an intelligent
Ohio farmer writes me: --“I see that you recommend fallow plowing, what are your reasons? Granting
that the immediate result is an increased crop, is not the land impoverished? Will not the
thorough cultivation of corn, or potatoes, answer as well?” And a distinguished farmer, of
this State, in a recent communication expressed the same idea--that summer-fallowing would
soon impoverish the land. But if this is the case, the fault is not in the practice of summer-fallowing,
but in growing too many grain crops, and selling them, instead of consuming them on the farm.
Take two fields; summer-fallow one, and sow it to wheat. Plant the other to corn, and sow wheat
after it in the fall. You get, say 35 bushels of wheat per acre from the summer-fallow. From
the other field you get, say, 30 bushels of shelled corn per acre, and 10 bushels of wheat
afterwards. Now, where a farmer is in the habit of selling all his wheat, and consuming all
his corn on the farm, it is evident that the practice of summer-fallowing will impoverish the
soil more rapidly than the system of growing corn followed by wheat--and for the simple reason
that more wheat is sold from the farm. If no more grain is sold in one case than in the other,
the summer-fallowing will not impoverish the soil any more than corn growing.

My idea of fallowing is this:--The soil and the atmosphere furnish, on good, well cultivated
land, plant-food sufficient, say, for 15 bushels of wheat per acre, every year. It will be
sometimes more, and sometimes less, according to the season and the character of the soil,
but on good, strong limestone land this may be taken as about the average. To grow wheat every
year in crops of 15 bushels per acre, would impoverish the soil just as much as to summer-fallow
and get 30 bushels of wheat every other year. It is the same thing in either case. But in summer-fallowing,
we clean the land, and the profits from a crop of 30 bushels per acre every other year, are
much more than from two crops of 15 bushels every year. You know that Mr. Lawes has a field
of about thirteen acres that he sows with wheat every year. On the plot that receives no manure
of any kind, the crop, for twenty years, averaged 16¼ bushels per acre. It is plowed twice
every year, and the wheat is hand-hoed in the spring to keep it clean. A few years ago, in
a field adjoining this experimental wheat field, and that is of the same character of land,
he made the following experiment. The land, after wheat, was fallowed, and then sown to wheat;
then fallowed the next year, and again sown to wheat, and the next year it was sown to wheat
after wheat. The following is the result compared with the yield of the continuously unmanured
plot in the experimental field that is sown to wheat every year:

  1. Year--No. 1--Fallow                                     No crop.
           No. 2--Wheat after wheat     15 bushels 3½ pecks per acre.
  2. Year--No. 1--Wheat after fallow    37    ”     --     ”       ”
           No. 2--Wheat after wheat     13    ”    3¼      ”       ”
  3.
  4. Year--No. 1--Wheat after fallow    42    ”     --     ”       ”
           No. 2--Wheat after wheat     21    ”    0¼      ”       ”
  5. Year--No. 1--Wheat after wheat     17    ”    1¼      ”       ”
           No. 2--Wheat after wheat     17    ”     --     ”       ”

Taking the first four years, we have a total yield from the plot sown every year of 66 bushels
2¼ pecks, and from the two crops alternately fallowed, a total yield of 79 bushels. The next
year, when wheat was sown after wheat on the land previously fallowed, the yield was almost
identical with the yield from the plot that has grown wheat after wheat for so many years.

So far, these results do not indicate any exhaustion from the practice of fallowing. On the
other hand, they tend to show that we can get more wheat by sowing it every other year, than
by cropping it every year in succession. The reason for this may be found in the fact that
in a fallow the land is more frequently exposed to the atmosphere by repeated plowings and
harrowings; and it should be borne in mind that the effect of stirring the land is not necessarily
in proportion to the total amount of stirring, but is according to the number of times that
fresh particles of soil are exposed to the atmosphere. Two plowings and two harrowings in one
week, will not do as much good as two plowings and two harrowings, at different times in the
course of three or four months. It is for this reason that I object, theoretically, to sowing
wheat after barley. We often plow the barley stubble twice, and spend considerable labor in
getting the land into good condition; but it is generally all done in the course of ten days
or two weeks. We do not get any adequate benefit for this labor. We can kill weeds readily
at this season, (August), but the stirring of the soil does not develope the latent plant-food
to the extent it would if the work was not necessarily done in such a limited period. I say
theoretically, for in point of fact I do sow wheat after barley. I do so because it is very
convenient, and because it is more immediately profitable. I am satisfied, however, that in
the end it would be more profitable to seed down the barley with clover.

We must raise larger crops; and to do this we must raise them less frequently. This is the
key-note of the coming improved system of American agriculture, in all sections where good
land is worth less than one hundred dollars per acre. In the neighborhood of large cities,
and wherever land commands a high price, we must keep our farms in a high state of fertility
by the purchase of manures or cattle foods. Those of us in the interior, where we can not buy
manure, must raise fewer grain crops, and more clover. We must aim to raise 40 bushels of wheat,
50 bushels of barley, 80 bushels of oats, and 100 bushels of shelled corn, and 5 bushels of
clover-seed per acre. That this can be done on good, well-drained land, from the unaided resources
of the farm, I have no doubt. It may give us no more grain to sell than at present, but it
will enable us to produce much more mutton, wool, beef, cheese, butter, and pork, than at present.

“But, then, will there be a demand for the meat, wool, etc.?” The present indications are highly
favorable. But we must aim to raise good meat. The low-priced beef and mutton sold in our markets
are as unprofitable to the consumer as they are to the producer. We must feed higher, and to
do this to advantage we must have improved stock. There is no profit in farming without good
tillage, larger crops, improved stock, and higher feeding. The details will be modified by
circumstances, but the principles are the same wherever agri-culture is practised.

CHAPTER IX.

HOW TO RESTORE A WORN-OUT FARM.

I have never yet seen a “worn-out” or “exhausted farm.” I know many farms that are “run down.”
I bought just such a farm a dozen or more years ago, and I have been trying hard, ever since,
to bring it up to a profitable standard of productiveness--and am still trying, and expect
to have to keep on trying so long as I keep on farming. The truth is, there never was a farm
so rich, that the farmer did not wish it was richer.

I have succeeded in making the larger part of my farm much more productive than it ever was
before, since it was cleared from the original forest. But it is far from being as rich as
I want it. The truth is, God sent us into this world to work, and He has given us plenty to
do, if we will only do it. At any rate, this is true of farming. He has not given us land ready
to our hand. The man who first cleared up my farm, had no easy task. He fairly earned all the
good crops he ever got from it. I have never begrudged him one particle of the “natural manure”
he took out of the land, in the form of wheat, corn, oats, and hay. On the dry, sandy knolls,
he probably got out a good portion of this natural manure, but on the wetter and heavier portions
of the farm, he probably did not get out one-hundredth part of the natural manure which the
land contained.

Now, when such a farm came into my possession, what was I to do with it?

“Tell us what you did,” said the Doctor, “and then, perhaps, we can tell you what you ought
to have done, and what you ought to have left undone.”

“I made many mistakes.”

“Amen,” said the Deacon; “I am glad to hear you acknowledge it.”

“Well,” said the Doctor, “it is better to make mistakes in trying to do something, than to
hug our self-esteem, and fold our hands in indolence. It has been said that critics are men
who have failed in their undertakings. But I rather think the most disagreeable, and self-satisfied
critics, are men who have never done anything, or tried to do anything, themselves.”

The Deacon, who, though something of an old fogy, is a good deal of a man, and possessed of
good common sense, and much experience, took these remarks kindly. “Well,” said he to me, “I
must say that your farm has certainly improved, but you did things so differently from what
we expected, that we could not see what you were driving at.”

“I can tell you what I have been aiming at all along. 1st. To drain the wet portions of the
arable land. 2d. To kill weeds, and make the soil mellow and clean. 3d. To make more manure.”

“You have also bought some bone-dust, superphosphate, and other artificial manures.”

“True; and if I had had more money I would have bought more manure. It would have paid well.
I could have made my land as rich as it is now in half the time.”

I had to depend principally on the natural resources of the land. I got out of the soil all
I could, and kept as much of it as possible on the farm. One of the mistakes I made was, in
breaking up too much land, and putting in too much wheat, barley, oats, peas, and corn. It
would have been better for my pocket, though possibly not so good for the farm, if I had left
more of the land in grass, and also, if I had summer-fallowed more, and sown less barley and
oats, and planted less corn.

“I do not see how plowing up the grass land,” said the Deacon, “could possibly be any better
for the farm. You agricultural writers are always telling us that we plow too much land, and
do not raise grass and clover enough.”

“What I meant by saying that it would have been better for my pocket, though possibly not so
good for the farm, if I had not plowed so much land, may need explanation. The land had been
only half cultivated, and was very foul. The grass and clover fields did not give more than
half a crop of hay, and the hay was poor in quality, and much of it half thistles, and other
weeds. I plowed this land, planted it to corn, and cultivated it thoroughly. But the labor
of keeping the corn clean was costly, and absorbed a very large slice of the profits. But the
corn yielded a far larger produce per acre than I should have got had the land lain in grass.
And as all this produce was consumed on the farm, we made more manure than if we had plowed
less land.”

I have great faith in the benefits of thorough tillage--or, in other words, of breaking up,
pulverizing, and exposing the soil to the decomposing action of the atmosphere. I look upon
a good, strong soil as a kind of storehouse of plant-food. But it is not an easy matter to
render this plant-food soluble. If it were any less soluble than it is, it would have all leached
out of the land centuries ago. Turning over, and fining a manure-heap, if other conditions
are favorable, cause rapid fermentation with the formation of carbonate of ammonia, and other
soluble salts. Many of our soils, to the depth of eight or ten inches, contain enough nitrogenous
matter in an acre to produce two or three thousand pounds of ammonia. By stirring the soil,
and exposing it to the atmosphere, a small portion of this nitrogen becomes annually available,
and is taken up by the growing crops. And it is so with the other elements of plant-food. Stirring
the soil, then, is the basis of agriculture. It has been said that we must return to the soil
as much plant-food as we take from it. If this were true, nothing could be sold from the farm.
What we should aim to do, is to develop as much as possible of the plant-food that lies latent
in the soil, and not to sell in the form of crops, cheese, wool, or animals, any more of this
plant-food than we annually develop from the soil. In this way the “condition” of the soil
would remain the same. If we sell less than we develop, the condition of the soil will improve.

By “condition,” I mean the amount of available plant-food in the soil. Nearly all our farms
are poorer in plant-food to-day than when first cleared of the original forest, or than they
were ten, fifteen, or twenty years later. In other words, the plants and animals that have
been sold from the farm, have carried off a considerable amount of plant-food. We have taken
far more nitrogen, phosphoric acid, potash, etc., out of the soil, than we have returned to
it in the shape of manure. Consequently, the soil must contain less and less of plant-food
every year. And yet, while this is a self-evident fact, it is, nevertheless, true that many
of these self-same farms are more productive now than when first cleared, or at any rate more
productive than they were twenty-five or thirty years ago.

Sometime ago, the Deacon and I visited the farm of Mr. Dewey, of Monroe Co., N.Y. He is a good
farmer. He does not practice “high farming” in the sense in which I use that term. His is a
good example of what I term slow farming. He raises large crops, but comparatively few of them.
On his farm of 300 acres, he raises 40 acres of wheat, 17 acres of Indian corn, and 23 acres
of oats, barley, potatoes, roots, etc. In other words, he has 80 acres in crops, and 220 acres
in grass--not permanent grass. He lets it lie in grass five, six, seven, or eight years, as
he deems best, and then breaks it up, and plants it to corn. The land he intends to plant to
corn next year, has been in grass for seven years. He will put pretty much all his manure on
this land. After corn, it will be sown to oats, or barley; then sown to wheat, and seeded down
again. It will then lie in grass three, four, five, six, or seven years, until he needs it
again for corn, etc. This is “slow farming,” but it is also good farming--that is to say, it
gives large yields per acre, and a good return for the labor expended.

The soil of this farm is richer to-day in available plant-food than when first cleared. It
produces larger crops per acre.

Mr. D. called our attention to a fact that establishes this point. An old fence that had occupied
the ground for many years was removed some years since, and the two fields thrown into one.
Every time this field is in crops, it is easy to see where the old fence was, by the short
straw and poor growth on this strip, as compared with the land on each side which had been
cultivated for years.

This is precisely the result that I should have expected. If Mr. D. was a poor farmer--if he
cropped his land frequently, did not more than half-cultivate it, sold everything he raised,
and drew back no manure--I think the old fence-strip would have given the best crops.

The strip of land on which the old fence stood in Mr. Dewey’s field, contained more plant-food
than the soil on either side of it. But it was not available. It was not developed. It was
latent, inert, insoluble, crude, and undecomposed. It was so much dead capital. The land on
either side which had been cultivated for years, produced better crops. Why? Simply because
the stirring of the soil had developed more plant-food than had been removed by the crops.
If the stirring of the soil developed 100 lbs. of plant-food a year, and only 75 lbs. were
carried off in the crops--25 lbs. being left on the land in the form of roots, stubble, etc.--the
land, at the expiration of 40 years, would contain, provided none of it was lost, 1,000 lbs.
more available plant-food than the uncultivated strip. On the other hand, the latter would
contain 3,000 lbs. more actual plant-food per acre than the land which had been cultivated--but
it is in an unavailable condition. It is dead capital.

I do not know that I make myself understood, though I would like to do so, because I am sure
there is no point in scientific farming of greater importance. Mr. Geddes calls grass the “pivotal
crop” of American agriculture. He deserves our thanks for the word and the idea connected with
it. But I am inclined to think the pivot on which our agriculture stands and rotates, lies
deeper than this. The grass crop creates nothing--developes nothing. The untilled and unmanured
grass lands of Herkimer County, in this State, are no richer to-day than they were 50 years
ago. The pastures of Cheshire, England, except those that have been top-dressed with bones,
or other manures, are no more productive than they were centuries back. Grass alone will not
make rich land. It is a good “savings bank.” It gathers up and saves plant-food from running
to waste. It pays a good interest, and is a capital institution. But the real source of fertility
must be looked for in the stores of plant-food lying dormant in the soil. Tillage, underdraining,
and thorough cultivation, are the means by which we develop and render this plant-food available.
Grass, clover, peas, or any other crop consumed on the farm, merely affords us the means of
saving this plant-food and making it pay a good interest.

CHAPTER X.

HOW TO MAKE MANURE.

If we have the necessary materials, it is not a difficult matter to make manure; in fact, the
manure will make itself. We sometimes need to hasten the process, and to see that none of the
fertilizing matter runs to waste. This is about all that we can do. We cannot create an atom
of plant-food. It is ready formed to our hands; but we must know where to look for it, and
how to get it in the easiest, cheapest, and best way, and how to save and use it. The science
of manure-making is a profound study. It is intimately connected with nearly every branch of
agriculture.

If weeds grow and decay on the land, they make manure. If we grow a crop of buckwheat, or spurry,
or mustard, or rape, or clover, and mow it, and let it lie on the land, it makes manure; or
if we plow it under, it forms manure; or if, after it is mown, we rake up the green crop, and
put it into a heap, it will ferment, heat will be produced by the slow combustion of a portion
of the carbonaceous and nitrogenous matter, and the result will be a mass of material, which
we should all recognize as “manure.” If, instead of putting the crop into a heap and letting
it ferment, we feed it to animals, the digestible carbonaceous and nitrogenous matter will
be consumed to produce animal heat and to sustain the vital functions, and the refuse, or the
solid and liquid droppings of the animals, will be manure.

If the crop rots on the ground, nothing is added to it. If it ferments, and gives out heat,
in a heap, nothing is added to it. If it is passed through an animal, and produces heat, nothing
is added to it.

I have heard people say a farmer could not make manure unless he kept animals. We might with
as much truth say a farmer cannot make ashes unless he keeps stoves; and it would be just as
sensible to take a lot of stoves into the woods to make ashes, as it is to keep a lot of animals
merely to make manure. You can make the ashes by throwing the wood into a pile, and burning
it; and you can make the manure by throwing the material out of which the manure is to be made
into a pile, and letting it ferment. On a farm where neither food nor manure of any kind is
purchased, the only way to make manure is to get it out of the land.

“From the land and from the atmosphere,” remarked the Doctor. “Plants get a large portion of
the material of which they are composed from the atmosphere.”

“Yes,” I replied, “but it is principally carbonaceous matter, which is of little or no value
as manure. A small amount of ammonia and nitric acid are also brought to the soil by rains
and dews, and a freshly-stirred soil may also sometimes absorb more or less ammonia from the
atmosphere; but while this is true, so far as making manure is concerned, we must look to the
plant-food existing in the soil itself.

“Take such a farm as Mr. Dewey’s, that we have already referred to. No manure or food has been
purchased; or at any rate, not one-tenth as much as has been sold, and yet the farm is more
productive to-day than when it was first cleared of the forest. He has developed the manure
from the stores of latent plant-food previously existing in the soil and this is the way farmers
generally make manure.”

CHAPTER XI.

THE VALUE OF MANURE DEPENDS ON THE FOOD--NOT ON THE ANIMAL.

“If,” said I, “you should put a ton of cut straw in a heap, wet it, and let it rot down into
manure; and should place in another heap a ton of cut corn-fodder, and in another heap a ton
of cut clover-hay, wet them, and let them also rot down into manure; and in another heap a
ton of pulped-turnips, and in another heap a ton of corn-meal, and in another heap a ton of
bran, and in another a ton of malt-sprouts, and let them be mixed with water, and so treated
that they will ferment without loss of ammonia or other valuable plant-food, I think no one
will say that all these different heaps of manure will have the same value. And if not, why not?”

“Because,” said Charley, “the ton of straw does not contain as much valuable plant-food as
the ton of corn-fodder, nor the ton of corn-fodder as much as the ton of clover-hay.”

“Now then,” said I, “instead of putting a ton of straw in one heap to rot, and a ton of corn-fodder
in another heap, and a ton of clover in another heap, we feed the ton of straw to a cow, and
the ton of corn-fodder to another cow, and the ton of clover to another cow, and save all the
solid and liquid excrements, will the manure made from the ton of straw be worth as much as
the manure made from the ton of corn-fodder or clover-hay?”

“No,” said Charley. --“Certainly not,” said the Doctor. --“I am not so sure about it,” said
the Deacon; “I think you will get more manure from the corn-fodder than from the straw or clover-hay.”

“We are not talking about bulk,” said the Doctor, “but value.” “Suppose, Deacon,” said he,
“you were to shut up a lot of your Brahma hens, and feed them a ton of corn-meal, and should
also feed a ton of corn-meal made into slops to a lot of pigs, and should save all the liquid
and solid excrements from the pigs, and all the manure from the hens, which would be worth
the most?” --“The hen-manure, of course,” said the Deacon, who has great faith in this kind
of “guano,” as he calls it.

“And yet,” said the Doctor, “you would probably not get more than half a ton of manure from
the hens, while the liquid and solid excrements from the pigs, if the corn-meal was made into
a thin slop, would weigh two or three tons.”

“More, too,” said the Deacon, “the way you feed your store pigs.”

“Very well; and yet you say that the half ton of hen-manure made from a ton of corn is worth
more than the two or three tons of pig-manure made from a ton of corn. You do not seem to think,
after all, that mere bulk or weight adds anything to the value of the manure. Why then should
you say that the manure from a ton of corn-fodder is worth more than from a ton of straw, because
it is more bulky?”

“You, yourself,” said the Deacon, “also say the manure from the ton of corn-fodder is worth
more than from the ton of straw.” --“True,” said I “but not because it is more bulky. It is
worth more because the ton of corn-fodder contains a greater quantity of valuable plant-food
than the ton of straw. The clover is still richer in this valuable plant-food, and the manure
is much more valuable; in fact, the manure from the ton of clover is worth as much as the manure
from the ton of straw and the ton of corn-fodder together.”

“I would like to see you prove that,” said the Deacon, “for if it is true, I will sell no more
clover-hay. I can’t get as much for clover-hay in the market as I can for rye-straw.”

“I will not attempt to prove it at present,” said the Doctor; “but the evidence is so strong
and so conclusive that no rational man, who will study the subject, can fail to be thoroughly
convinced of its truth.”

“The value of manure,” said I, “does not depend on the quantity of water which it contains,
or on the quantity of sand, or silica, or on the amount of woody fibre or carbonaceous matter.
These things add little or nothing to its fertilizing value, except in rare cases; and the
sulphuric acid and lime are worth no more than the same quantity of sulphate of lime or gypsum,
and the chlorine and soda are probably worth no more than so much common salt. The real chemical
value of the manure, other things being equal, is in proportion to the nitrogen, phosphoric
acid, and potash, that the manure contains.

“And the quantity of nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash found in the manure is determined,
other things being equal, by the quantity of the nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash contained
in the food consumed by the animals making the manure.”

CHAPTER XII.

FOODS WHICH MAKE RICH MANURE.

The amount of nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, contained in different foods, has been
accurately determined by many able and reliable chemists.

The following table was prepared by Dr. J. B. Lawes, of Rothamsted, England, and was first
published in this country in the “Genesee Farmer,” for May, 1860. Since then, it has been repeatedly
published in nearly all the leading agricultural journals of the world, and has given rise
to much discussion. The following is the table, with some recent additions:

  TD: Total dry matter.
  TM: Total mineral matter (ash).
  Ph: Phosphoric acid reckoned as phosphate of lime.
  P:  Potash.
  N:  Nitrogen.
  V:  Value of manure in dollars and cents from 1 ton (2,000 lbs.)
      of food.

  -----------------------+----------------------------------+-------
                         |             Per Cent.            |
                         +------+------+------+------+------+
                         | TD   | TM   | Ph   |  P   |  N   |   V
  -----------------------+------+------+------+------+------+-------
   1. Linseed cake       | 88.0 | 7.00 | 4.92 | 1.65 | 4.75 | 19.72
   2. Cotton-seed cake*  | 89.0 | 8.00 | 7.00 | 3.12 | 6.50 | 27.86
   3. Rape-cake          | 89.0 | 8.00 | 5.75 | 1.76 | 5.00 | 21.01
   4. Linseed            | 90.0 | 4.00 | 3.38 | 1.37 | 3.80 | 15.65
   5. Beans              | 84.0 | 3.00 | 2.20 | 1.27 | 4.00 | 15.75
   6. Peas               | 84.5 | 2.40 | 1.84 | 0.96 | 3.40 | 13.38
   7. Tares              | 84.0 | 2.00 | 1.63 | 0.66 | 4.20 | 16.75
   8. Lentils            | 88.0 | 3.00 | 1.89 | 0.96 | 4.30 | 16.51
   9. Malt-dust          | 94.0 | 8.50 | 5.23 | 2.12 | 4.20 | 18.21
  10. Locust beans       | 85.0 | 1.75 | .... | .... | 1.25 |  4.81
  11. Indian-meal        | 88.0 | 1.30 | 1.13 | 0.35 | 1.80 |  6.65
  12. Wheat              | 85.0 | 1.70 | 1.87 | 0.50 | 1.80 |  7.08
  13. Barley             | 84.0 | 2.20 | 1.35 | 0.55 | 1.65 |  6.32
  14. Malt               | 95.0 | 2.60 | 1.60 | 0.65 | 1.70 |  6.65
  15. Oats               | 86.0 | 2.85 | 1.17 | 0.50 | 2.00 |  7.70
  16. Fine pollard†      | 86.0 | 5.60 | 6.44 | 1.46 | 2.00 | 13.53
  17. Coarse pollard‡    | 86.0 | 6.20 | 7.52 | 1.49 | 2.58 | 14.36
  18. Wheat-bran         | 86.0 | 6.60 | 7.95 | 1.45 | 2.55 | 14.59
  19. Clover-hay         | 84.0 | 7.50 | 1.25 | 1.30 | 2.50 |  9.64
  20. Meadow-hay         | 84.0 | 6.00 | 0.88 | 1.50 | 1.50 |  6.43
  21. Bean-straw         | 82.5 | 5.55 | 0.90 | 1.11 | 0.90 |  3.87
  22. Pea-straw          | 82.0 | 5.95 | 0.85 | 0.89 | .... |  3.74
  23. Wheat-straw        | 84.0 | 5.00 | 0.55 | 0.65 | 0.60 |  2.68
  24. Barley-straw       | 85.0 | 4.50 | 0.37 | 0.63 | 0.50 |  2.25
  25. Oat-straw          | 83.0 | 5.50 | 0.48 | 0.93 | 0.60 |  2.90
  26. Mangel-wurzel      | 12.5 | 1.00 | 0.09 | 0.25 | 0.25 |  1.07
  27. Swedish turnips    | 11.0 | 0.68 | 0.13 | 0.18 | 0.22 |  0.91
  28. Common turnips     |  8.0 | 0.68 | 0.11 | 0.29 | 0.18 |  0.86
  29. Potatoes           | 24.0 | 1.00 | 0.32 | 0.43 | 0.35 |  1.50
  30. Carrots            | 13.5 | 0.70 | 0.13 | 0.23 | 0.20 |  0.80
  31. Parsnips           | 15.0 | 1.00 | 0.42 | 0.36 | 0.22 |  1.14
  -----------------------+------+------+------+------+------+-------

  * The manure from a ton of undecorticated cotton-seed cake is worth
  $15.74; that from a ton of cotton-seed, after being ground and sifted,
  is worth $13.25. The grinding and sifting in Mr. Lawes’ experiments,
  removed about 8 per cent of husk and cotton. Cotton-seed, so treated,
  proved to be a very rich and economical food.

  † Middlings, Canielle.

  ‡ Shipstuff.

Of all vegetable substances used for food, it will be seen that decorticated cotton-seed cake
is the richest in nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, and consequently makes the richest
and most valuable manure. According to Mr. Lawes’ estimate, the manure from a ton of decorticated
cotton-seed cake is worth $27.86 in gold.

Rape-cake comes next. Twenty-five to thirty years ago, rape-cake, ground as fine as corn-meal,
was used quite extensively on many of the light-land farms of England as a manure for turnips,
and not unfrequently as a manure for wheat. Mr. Lawes used it for many years in his experiments
on turnips and on wheat.

Of late years, however, it has been fed to sheep and cattle. In other words, it has been used,
not as formerly, for manure alone, but for food first, and manure afterwards. The oil and other
carbonaceous matter which the cake contains is of little value for manure, while it is of great
value as food. The animals take out this carbonaceous matter, and leave nearly all the nitrogen,
phosphoric acid, and potash in the manure. Farmers who had found it profitable to use on wheat
and turnips for manure alone, found it still more profitable to use it first for food, and
then for manure afterwards. Mr. Lawes, it will be seen, estimates the manure produced from
the consumption of a ton of rape-cake at $21.01.

Linseed-oil cake comes next. Pure linseed-cake is exceedingly valuable, both for food and manure.
It is a favorite food with all cattle and sheep breeders and feeders. It has a wonderful effect
in improving the appearance of cattle and sheep. An English farmer thinks he cannot get along
without “cake” for his calves, lambs, cattle, and sheep. In this country, it is not so extensively
used, except by the breeders of improved stock. It is so popular in England that the price
is fully up to its intrinsic value, and not unfrequently other foods, in proportion to the
nutritive and manurial value, can be bought cheaper. This fact shows the value of a good reputation.
Linseed-cake, however, is often adulterated, and farmers need to be cautious who they deal
with. When pure, it will be seen that the manure made by the consumption of a ton of linseed-cake
is worth $19.72.

Malt-dust stands next on the list. This article is known by different names. In England, it
is often called “malt-combs;” here it is known as “malt-sprouts,” or “malt-roots.” In making
barley into malt, the barley is soaked in water, and afterwards kept in a warm room until it
germinates, and throws out sprouts and roots. It is then dried, and before the malt is used,
these dried sprouts and roots are sifted out, and are sold for cattle-food. They weigh from
22 to 25 lbs. per bushel of 40 quarts. They are frequently mixed at the breweries with the
“grains,” and are sold to milkmen at the same price--from 12 to 15 cents per bushel. Where
their value is not known, they can, doubtless, be sometimes obtained at a mere nominal price.
Milkmen, I believe, prefer the “grains” to the malt-dust. The latter, however, is a good food
for sheep. It has one advantage over brewer’s “grains.” The latter contain 76 per cent of water,
while the malt-dust contains only 6 per cent of water. We can afford, therefore, to transport
malt-dust to a greater distance than the grains. We do not want to carry water many miles.
There is another advantage: brewer’s grains soon ferment, and become sour; while the malt-dust,
being dry, will keep for any length of time. It will be seen that Mr. Lawes estimates the value
of the manure left from the consumption of a ton of malt-dust at $18.21.

Tares or vetches, lentils, linseed or flaxseed, beans, wheat, bran, middlings, fine mill-feed,
undecorticated cotton-seed cake, peas, and cotton-seed, stand next on the list. The value of
these for manure ranging from $13.25 to $16.75 per ton.

Then comes clover-hay. Mr. Lawes estimates the value of the manure from the consumption of
a ton of clover-hay at $9.64. This is from early cut clover-hay.

When clover is allowed to grow until it is nearly out of flower, the hay would not contain
so much nitrogen, and would not be worth quite so much per ton for manure. When mixed with
timothy or other grasses, or with weeds, it would not be so valuable. The above estimate is
for the average quality of good pure English clover-hay. Our best farmers raise clover equally
as good; but I have seen much clover-hay that certainly would not come up to this standard.
Still, even our common clover-hay makes rich manure. In Wolff’s Table, given in the appendix,
it will be seen that clover-hay contains only 1.97 per cent of nitrogen and 5.7 per cent of
ash. Mr. Lawes’ clover contains more nitrogen and ash. This means richer land and a less mature
condition of the crop.

The cereal grains, wheat, barley, oats, and Indian corn, stand next on the list, being worth
from $6.32 to $7.70 per ton for manure.

“Meadow-hay,” which in the table is estimated as worth $6.43 per ton for manure, is the hay
from permanent meadows. It is a quite different article from the “English Meadow-hay” of New
England. It is, in fact, the perfection of hay. The meadows are frequently top-dressed with
composted manure or artificial fertilizers, and the hay is composed of a number of the best
grasses, cut early and carefully cured. It will be noticed, however, that even this choice
meadow-hay is not as valuable for manure as clover-hay.

English bean-straw is estimated as worth $3.87 per ton for manure. The English “horse bean,”
which is the kind here alluded to, has a very stiff, coarse long straw, and looks as though
it was much inferior as fodder, to the straw of our ordinary white beans. See Wolff’s table
in the appendix.

Pea-straw is estimated at $3.74 per ton. When the peas are not allowed to grow until dead ripe,
and when the straw is carefully cured, it makes capital food for sheep. Taking the grain and
straw together, it will be seen that peas are an unusually valuable crop to grow for the purpose
of making rich manure.

The straw of oats, wheat, and barley, is worth from $2.25 to $2.90 per ton. Barley straw being
the poorest for manure, and oat straw the richest.

Potatoes are worth $1.50 per ton, or nearly 5 cents a bushel for manure.

The manurial value of roots varies from 80 cents a ton for carrots, to $1.07 for mangel-wurzel,
and $1.14 for parsnips.

I am very anxious that there should be no misapprehension as to the meaning of these figures.
I am sure they are well worth the careful study of every intelligent farmer. Mr. Lawes has
been engaged in making experiments for over thirty years. There is no man more competent to
speak with authority on such a subject. The figures showing the money value of the manure made
from the different foods, are based on the amount of nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash,
which they contain. Mr. Lawes has been buying and using artificial manures for many years,
and is quite competent to form a correct conclusion as to the cheapest sources of obtaining
nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash. He has certainly not overestimated their cost. They
can not be bought at lower rates, either in England or America. But of course it does not follow
from this that these manures are worth to the farmer the price charged for them; that is a
matter depending on many conditions. All that can be said is, that if you are going to buy
commercial manures, you will have to pay at least as much for the nitrogen, phosphoric acid,
and potash, as the price fixed upon by Mr. Lawes. And you should recollect that there are other
ingredients in the manure obtained from the food of animals, which are not estimated as of
any value in the table. For instance, there is a large amount of carbonaceous matter in the
manure of animals, which, for some crops, is not without value, but which is not here taken
into account.

Viewed from a farmer’s stand-point, the table of money values must be taken only in a comparative
sense. It is not claimed that the manure from a ton of wheat-straw is worth $2.68. This may,
or may not, be the case. But if the manure from a ton of wheat-straw is worth $2.08, then the
manure from a ton of pea-straw is worth $3.74, and the manure from a ton of corn-meal is worth
$6.65, and the manure from a ton of clover-hay is worth $9.64, and the manure from a ton of
wheat-bran is worth $14.59. If the manure from the ton of corn is worth more than $6.65, then
the manure from a ton of bran is worth more than $14.59. There need be no doubt on this point.

Settle in your own mind what the manure from a ton of any one of the foods mentioned is worth
on your farm, and you can easily calculate what the manure is worth from all the others. If
you say that the manure from a ton of wheat-straw is worth $1.34, then the manure from a ton
of Indian corn is worth $3.33, and the manure from a ton of bran is worth $7.30, and the manure
from a ton of clover-hay is worth $4.82.

In this section, however, few good farmers are willing to sell straw, though they can get from
$8.00 to $10.00 per ton for it. They think it must be consumed on the farm, or used for bedding,
or their land will run down. I do not say they are wrong, but I do say, that if a ton of straw
is worth $2.68 for manure alone, then a ton of clover-hay is worth $9.64 for manure alone.
This may be accepted as a general truth, and one which a farmer can act upon. And so, too,
in regard to the value of corn-meal, bran, and all the other articles given in the table.

There is another point of great importance which should be mentioned in this connection. The
nitrogen in the better class of foods is worth more for manure than the nitrogen in straw,
corn-stalks, and other coarse fodder. Nearly all the nitrogen in grain, and other rich foods,
is digested by the animals, and is voided in solution in the urine. In other words, the nitrogen
in the manure is in an active and available condition. On the other hand, only about half the
nitrogen in the coarse fodders and straw is digestible. The other half passes off in a crude
and comparatively unavailable condition, in the solid excrement. In estimating the value of
the manure from a ton of food, these facts should be remembered.

I have said that if the manure from a ton of straw is worth $2.68, the manure from a ton of
corn is worth $6.65; but I will not reverse the proposition, and say that if the manure from
a ton of corn is worth $6.65, the manure from a ton of straw is worth $2.68. The manure from
the grain is nearly all in an available condition, while that from the straw is not. A pound
of nitrogen in rich manure is worth more than a pound of nitrogen in poor manure. This is another
reason why we should try to make rich manure.

CHAPTER XIII.

HORSE MANURE AND FARM-YARD MANURE.

The manure from horses is generally considered richer and better than that from cows. This
is not always the case, though it is probably so as a rule. There are three principal reasons
for this. 1st. The horse is usually fed more grain and hay than the cow. In other words, the
food of the horse is usually richer in the valuable elements of plant-food than the ordinary
food of the cow. 2d. The milk of the cow abstracts considerable nitrogen, phosphoric acid,
etc., from the food, and to this extent there is less of these valuable substances in the excrements.
3d. The excrements of the cow contain much more water than those of the horse. And consequently
a ton of cow-dung, other things being equal, would not contain as much actual manure as a ton
of horse-dung.

Boussingault, who is eminently trustworthy, gives us the following interesting facts:

A horse consumed in 24 hours, 20 lbs. of hay, 6 lbs. of oats, and 43 lbs. of water, and voided
during the same period, 3 lbs. 7 ozs. of urine, and 38 lbs. 2 ozs. of solid excrements.

The solid excrements contained 23½ lbs. of water, and the urine 2 lbs. 6 ozs. of water.

According to this, a horse, eating 20 lbs. of hay, and 6 lbs. of oats, per day, voids in a
year nearly seven tons of solid excrements, and 1,255 lbs. of urine.

It would seem that there must have been some mistake in collecting the urine, or what was probably
the case, that some of it must have been absorbed by the dung; for 3½ pints of urine per day
is certainly much less than is usually voided by a horse.

Stockard gives the amount of urine voided by a horse in a year at 3,000 lbs.; a cow, 8,000
lbs.; sheep, 380 lbs.; pig, 1,200 lbs.

Dr. Vœlcker, at the Royal Agricultural College, at Cirencester, England, made some valuable
investigations in regard to the composition of farm-yard manure, and the changes which take
place during fermentation.

The manure was composed of horse, cow, and pig-dung, mixed with the straw used for bedding
in the stalls, pig-pens, sheds, etc.

On the 3d of November, 1854, a sample of what Dr. Vœlcker calls “Fresh Long Dung,” was taken
from the “manure-pit” for analysis. It had lain in the pit or heap about 14 days.

The following is the result of the analysis:

  Fresh Farm-Yard Manure.
  Half A Ton, Or 1,000 Lbs.

  Water                   661.7  lbs.
  Organic matter          282.4   ”
  Ash                      55.9   ”
                        -------------
                        1,000.0  lbs.
  Nitrogen                  6.43  ”

“Before you go any farther,” said the Deacon, “let me understand what these figures mean? Do
you mean that a ton of manure contains only 12¾ lbs. of nitrogen, and 111 lbs. of ash, and
that all the rest is carbonaceous matter and water, of little or no value?” --“That is it precisely,
Deacon,” said I, “and furthermore, a large part of the ash has very little fertilizing value,
as seen from the following:

  Detailed Composition of the Ash of Fresh Barn-Yard Manure.

  Soluble silica                             21.59
  Insoluble silicious matter (sand)          10.04
  Phosphate of lime                           5.35
  Oxide of iron, alumina, with phosphate      8.47
  Containing phosphoric acid                  3.18
  Lime                                       21.31
  Magnesia                                    2.76
  Potash                                     12.04
  Soda                                        1.30
  Chloride of sodium                          0.54
  Sulphuric acid                              1.49
  Carbonic acid and loss                     15.11
                                            ------
                                            100.00

Nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, are the most valuable ingredients in manure. It will
be seen that a ton of fresh barn-yard manure, of probably good average quality, contains:

  Nitrogen            12¾ lbs.
  Phosphoric acid      6½  ”
  Potash              13½  ”

I do not say that these are the only ingredients of any value in a ton of manure. Nearly all
the other ingredients are indispensable to the growth of plants, and if we should use manures
containing nothing but nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, the time would come when the
crops would fail, from lack of a sufficient quantity of, perhaps, magnesia, or lime, sulphuric
acid, or soluble silica, or iron. But it is not necessary to make provision for such a contingency.
It would be a very exceptional case. Farmers who depend mainly on barn-yard manure, or on plowing
under green crops for keeping up the fertility of the land, may safely calculate that the value
of the manure is in proportion to the amount of nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, it contains.

We draw out a ton of fresh manure and spread it on the land, therefore, in order to furnish
the growing crops with 12¾ lbs. of nitrogen, 6½ lbs. of phosphoric acid, and 13½ lbs. of potash.
Less than 33 lbs. in all!

We cannot dispense with farm-yard manure. We can seldom buy nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and
potash, as cheaply as we can get them in home-made manures. But we should clearly understand
the fact that we draw out 2,000 lbs. of matter in order to get 33 lbs. of these fertilizing
ingredients. We should try to make richer manure. A ton of manure containing 60 lbs. of nitrogen,
phosphoric acid, and potash, costs no more to draw out and spread, than a ton containing only
30 lbs., and it would be worth nearly or quite double the money.

How to make richer manure we will not discuss at this time. It is a question of food. But it
is worth while to enquire if we can not take such manure as we have, and reduce its weight
and bulk without losing any of its nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash.

CHAPTER XIV.

FERMENTING MANURE.

Dr. Vœlcker placed 2,838 lbs. of fresh mixed manure in a heap Nov. 3, 1854, and the next spring,
April 30, it weighed 2,026 lbs., a shrinkage in weight of 28.6 per cent. In other words 100
tons of such manure would be reduced to less than 71½ tons.

The heap was weighed again, August 23d, and contained 1,994 lbs. It was again weighed Nov.
15, and contained 1,974 lbs.

The following table shows the composition of the heap when first put up, and also at the three
subsequent periods:

  Table Showing Composition of the Whole Heap; Fresh Farm-Yard Manure
  (No. I.) Exposed--Expressed in Lbs.

  ----------------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------
                              |When put |April 30,|Aug. 23, |Nov. 15,
                              |up, Nov. |1855.    |1855.    |1855.
                              |3, 1854. |         |         |
  ----------------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------
  Weight of manure in lbs.    | 2,838   | 2,026   | 1,994   | 1,974
  Amt. of water in the manure | 1,877.9 | 1,336.1 | 1,505.3 | 1,466.5
  Amt. of dry matter in the   |         |         |         |
        manure                |   960.1 |   689.9 |   488.7 |   507.5
    Consisting of--           |         |         |         |
  Soluble organic matter    { |    70.38|    86.51|    58.83|    54.04
  Soluble mineral matter    { |    43.71|    57.88|    39.16|    36.89
  Insoluble organic matter  { |   731.07|   389.74|   243.22|   214.92
  Insoluble mineral matter  { |   114.92|   155.77|   147.49|   201.65
                              | --------| --------| --------| --------
                              |   960.1 |   689.9 |   488.7 |   507.5
                              |         |         |         |
  Containing nitrogen         |     4.22|     6.07|     3.76|     3.65
  Equal to ammonia            |     5.12|     7.37|     4.56|     4.36
  Containing nitrogen         |    14.01|    12.07|     9.38|     9.38
  Equal to ammonia            |    17.02|    14.65|    11.40|    11.39
                              | --------| --------| --------| --------
  Total amount of nitrogen in |         |         |         |
    manure                    |    18.23|    18.14|    13.14|    13.03
  Equal to ammonia            |    22.14|    22.02|    15.96|    15.75
                              |         |         |         |
  The manure contains ammonia |         |         |         |
    in free state             |      .96|      .15|      .20|      .11
  The manure contains ammonia |         |         |         |
    in form of salts, easily  |         |         |         |
    decomposed by quicklime   |     2.49|     1.71|      .75|      .80
  Total amount of organic     |         |         |         |
    matters                   |   801.45|   476.25|   302.05|   268.96
  Total amount of mineral     |         |         |         |
    matters                   |   158.15|   213.65|   186.65|   238.54
  ----------------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------

“It will be remarked,” says Dr. Vœlcker, “that in the first experimental period, the fermentation
of the dung, as might have been expected, proceeded most rapidly, but that, notwithstanding,
very little nitrogen was dissipated in the form of volatile ammonia; and that on the whole,
the loss which the manure sustained was inconsiderable when compared with the enormous waste
to which it was subject in the subsequent warmer and more rainy seasons of the year. Thus we
find at the end of April very nearly the same amount of nitrogen which is contained in the
fresh; whereas, at the end of August, 27.9 per cent of the total nitrogen, or nearly one-third
of the nitrogen in the manure, has been wasted in one way or the other.

“It is worthy of observation,” continues Dr. Vœlcker, “that, during a well-regulated fermentation
of dung, the loss in intrinsically valuable constituents is inconsiderable, and that in such
a preparatory process the efficacy of the manure becomes greatly enhanced. For certain purposes
fresh dung can never take the place of well-rotted dung. * * The farmer will, therefore, always
be compelled to submit a portion of home-made dung to fermentation, and will find satisfaction
in knowing that this process, when well regulated, is not attended with any serious depreciation
of the value of the manure. In the foregoing analyses he will find the direct proof that as
long as heavy showers of rain are excluded from manure-heaps, or the manure is kept in water-proof
pits, the most valuable fertilizing matters are preserved.”

This experiment of Dr. Vœlcker proves conclusively that manure can be kept in a rapid state
of fermentation for six months during winter, with little loss of nitrogen or other fertilizing
matter.

During fermentation a portion of the insoluble matter of the dung becomes soluble, and if the
manure is then kept in a heap exposed to rain, there is a great loss of fertilizing matter.
This is precisely what we should expect. We ferment manure to make it more readily available
as plant-food, and when we have attained our object, the manure should be applied to the land.
We keep winter apples in the cellar until they get ripe. As soon as they are ripe, they should
be eaten, or they will rapidly decay. This is well understood. And it should be equally well
known that manure, after it has been fermenting in a heap for six months, cannot safely be
kept for another six months exposed to the weather.

The following table shows the composition of 100 lbs. of the farm-yard manure, at different
periods of the year:

  Composition of 100 Lbs. of Fresh Farm-Yard Manure (No. I.) Exposed in
  Natural State, at Different Periods of the Year.   |1855.
                           |3, 1854.|        |        |        |
  -------------------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------
  Water                    |  66.17 | 69.83  | 65.95  | 75.49  | 74.29
  Soluble organic matter   |   2.48 |  3.86  |  4.27  |  2.95  |  2.74
  Soluble inorganic matter |   1.54 |  2.97  |  2.86  |  1.97  |  1.87
  Insoluble organic matter |  25.76 | 18.44  | 19.23  | 12.20  | 10.89
  Insoluble mineral matter |   4.05 |  4.90  |  7.69  |  7.39  | 10.21
                           +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------
                           | 100.00 |100.00  |100.00  |100.00  |100.00
  Containing nitrogen      |    .149|   .27  |   .30  |   .19  |   .18
  Equal to ammonia         |    .181|   .32  |   .36  |   .23  |   .21
  Containing nitrogen      |    .494|   .47  |   .59  |   .47  |   .47
  Equal to ammonia         |    .599|   .57  |   .71  |   .62  |   .57
  Total amount of nitrogen |    .643|   .74  |   .89  |   .66  |   .65
  Equal to ammonia         |    .780|   .89  |  1.07  |   .85  |   .78
  Ammonia in a free state  |    .034|   .049 |   .008 |   .010 |   .006
  Ammonia in form of salts |        |        |        |        |
    easily  decomposed     |        |        |        |        |
    by quicklime           |    .088|   .064 |   .085 |   .038 |   .041
  Total amt. of organic    |  28.24 | 22.30  | 23.50  | 15.15  | 13.63
    matter                 |        |        |        |        |
  Total amt. of mineral    |   5.59 |  7.87  | 10.55  |  9.36  | 12.08
    substances             |        |        |        |        |
  -------------------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------

It will be seen that two-thirds of the fresh manure is water. After fermenting in an exposed
heap for six months, it still contains about the same percentage of water. When kept in the
heap until August, the percentage of water is much greater. Of four tons of such manure, three
tons are water.

Of Nitrogen, the most valuable ingredient of the manure, the fresh dung, contained 0.64 per
cent; after fermenting six months, it contained 0.89 per cent. Six months later, it contained
0.65 per cent, or about the same amount as the fresh manure.

Of mineral matter, or ash, this fresh farm-yard manure contained 5.59 per cent; of which 1.54
was soluble in water, and 4.05 insoluble. After fermenting in the heap for six months, the
manure contained 10.55 per cent of ash, of which 2.86 was soluble, and 7.69 insoluble. Six
months later, the soluble ash had decreased to 1.97 per cent.

The following table shows the composition of the manure, at different periods, in the dry state.
In other words, supposing all the water to be removed from the manure, its composition would
be as follows:

  Composition of Fresh Farm-Yard Manure (No. I.) Exposed.
  Calculated Dry.

“1. It will be perceived that the proportion of organic matter steadily diminishes from month
to month, until the original percentage of organic matter in the dry manure, amounting to 83.48
per cent, becomes reduced to 53 per cent.

“2. On the other hand, the total percentage of mineral matter rises as steadily as that of
the organic matter falls.

“3. It will be seen that the loss in organic matter affects the percentage of insoluble organic
matters more than the percentage of soluble organic substances.

“4. The percentage of soluble organic matters, indeed, increased considerably during the first
experimental period; it rose, namely, from 7.33 per cent to 12.79 per cent. Examined again
on the 30th of April, very nearly the same percentage of soluble organic matter, as on February
the 14th, was found. The August analysis shows but a slight decrease in the percentage of soluble
organic matters, while there is a decrease of 2 per cent of soluble organic matters when the
November analysis is compared with the February analysis.

“5. The soluble mineral matters in this manure rise or fall in the different experimental periods
in the same order as the soluble organic matters. Thus, in February, 9.84 per cent of soluble
mineral matters were found, whilst the manure contained only 4.55 per cent, when put up into
a heap in November, 1854. Gradually, however, the proportion of soluble mineral matters again
diminished, and became reduced to 7.27 per cent, on the examination of the manure in November,
1855.

“6. A similar regularity will be observed in the percentage of nitrogen contained in the soluble
organic matters.

“7. In the insoluble organic matters, the percentage of nitrogen regularly increased from November,
1854, up to the 23d of August, notwithstanding the rapid diminution of the percentage of insoluble
organic matter. For the last experimental period, the percentage of nitrogen in the insoluble
matter is nearly the same as on August 23d.

“8. With respect to the total percentage of nitrogen in the fresh manure, examined at different
periods of the year, it will be seen that the February manure contains about one-half per cent
more of nitrogen than the manure in a perfectly fresh state. On the 30th of April, the percentage
of nitrogen again slightly increased; on August 23d, it remained stationary, and had sunk but
very little when last examined on the 15th of November, 1855.

“This series of analyses thus shows that fresh farm-yard manure rapidly becomes more soluble
in water, but that this desirable change is realized at the expense of a large proportion of
organic matters. It likewise proves, in an unmistakable manner, that there is no advantage
in keeping farm-yard manure for too long a period; for, after February, neither the percentage
of soluble organic, nor that of soluble mineral matter, has become greater, and the percentage
of nitrogen in the manure of April and August is only a very little higher than in February.”

“Before you go any further,” said the Deacon, “answer me this question: Suppose I take five
tons of farm-yard manure, and put it in a heap on the 3d of November, tell me, 1st, what that
heap will contain when first made; 2d, what the heap will contain April 30th; and, 3d, what
the heap will contain August 23d.”

Here is the table:

  Contents of a Heap of Manure at Different Periods, Exposed to
  Rain, etc.

  -------------------------------+---------+---------+---------+--------
                                 |When     |Apr. 30. |Aug. 23. |Nov. 15.
                                 |put up,  |         |         |
                                 |Nov. 3.  |         |         |
  -------------------------------+---------+---------+---------+--------
  Total weight of manure in heap |10,000   | 7,138   | 7,025   | 6,954
  Water in the heap of manure    | 6,617   | 4,707   | 5,304   | 5,167
  Total organic matter           | 2,824   | 1,678   | 1,034   |   947
  Total inorganic matter         |   559   |   753   |   657   |   840
  Total nitrogen in heap         |    64.3 |    63.9 |    46.3 |    46.0
  Total soluble organic matter   |   248   |   305   |   207   |   190
  Total insoluble organic matter | 2,576   | 1,373   |   857   |   757
  Soluble mineral matter         |   154   |   204   |   138   |   130
  Insoluble mineral matter       |   405   |   549   |   519   |   710
  Nitrogen in soluble matter     |    14.9 |    21.4 |    13.2 |    12.9
  Nitrogen in insoluble matter   |    49.4 |    42.5 |    33.1 |    33.1
  -------------------------------+---------+---------+---------+--------

The Deacon put on his spectacles and studied the above table carefully for some time. “That
tells the whole story,” said he, “you put five tons of fresh manure in a heap, it ferments
and gets warm, and nearly one ton of water is driven off by the heat.”

“Yes,” said the Doctor, “you see that over half a ton (1,146 lbs.) of dry organic matter has
been slowly burnt up in the heap; giving out as much heat as half a ton of coal burnt in a
stove. But this is not all. The manure is cooked, and steamed, and softened by the process.
The organic matter burnt up is of no value. There is little or no loss of nitrogen. The heap
contained 64.3 lbs. of nitrogen when put up, and 63.9 lbs. after fermenting six months. And
it is evident that the manure is in a much more active and available condition than if it had
been applied to the land in the fresh state. There was 14.9 lbs. of nitrogen in a soluble condition
in the fresh manure, and 21.4 lbs. in the fermented manure. And what is equally important,
you will notice that there is 154 lbs. of soluble ash in the heap of fresh manure, and 204
lbs. in the heap of fermented manure. In other words, 50 lbs. of the insoluble mineral matter
had, by the fermentation of the manure, been rendered soluble, and consequently immediately
available as plant-food. This is a very important fact.”

The Doctor is right. There is clearly a great advantage in fermenting manure, provided it is
done in such a manner as to prevent loss. We have not only less manure to draw out and spread,
but the plant-food which it contains, is more soluble and active.

The table we have given shows that there is little or no loss of valuable constituents, even
when manure is fermented in the open air and exposed to ordinary rain and snows during an English
winter. But it also shows that when the manure has been fermented for six months, and is then
turned and left exposed to the rain of spring and summer, the loss is very considerable.

The five tons (10,000 lbs.,) of fresh manure placed in a heap on the 3d of November, are reduced
to 7,138 lbs. by the 30th of April. Of this 4,707 lbs. is water. By the 23d of August, the
heap is reduced to 7,025 lbs., of which 5,304 lbs. is water. There is nearly 600 lbs. more
water in the heap in August than in April.

Of total nitrogen in the heap, there is 64.3 lbs. in the fresh manure, 63.9 lbs. in April,
and only 46.3 lbs. in August. This is a great loss, and there is no compensating gain.

We have seen that, when five tons of manure is fermented for six months, in winter, the nitrogen
in the soluble organic matter is increased from 14.9 lbs. to 21.4 lbs. This is a decided advantage.
But when the manure is kept for another six months, this soluble nitrogen is decreased from
21.4 lbs. to 13.2 lbs. We lose over 8 lbs. of the most active and available nitrogen.

And the same remarks will apply to the valuable soluble mineral matter. In the five tons of
fresh manure there is 154 lbs. of soluble mineral matter. By fermenting the heap six months,
we get 204 lbs., but by keeping the manure six months longer, the soluble mineral matter is
reduced to 138 lbs. We lose 66 lbs. of valuable soluble mineral matter.

By fermenting manure for six months in winter, we greatly improve its condition; by keeping
it six months longer, we lose largely of the very best and most active parts of the manure.

CHAPTER XV.

KEEPING MANURE UNDER COVER.

Dr. Vœlcker, at the same time he made the experiments alluded to in the preceding chapter,
placed another heap of manure under cover, in a shed. It was the same kind of manure, and was
treated precisely as the other--the only difference being that one heap was exposed to the
rain, and the other not. The following table gives the results of the weighings of the heap
at different times, and also the percentage of loss:

  Manure Fermented Under Cover in Shed.

  Table Showing the Actual Weighings, and Percentage of Loss in Weight,
  of Experimental Heap (No. II.) Fresh Farm-Yard Manure Under Shed,
  at Different Periods of the Year.

                                      |Weight  |Loss in |Percentage
                                      |  of    |original| of Loss.
                                      |Manure  |weight  |
                                      |in Lbs. |in Lbs. |
  ------------------------------------+--------+--------+----------
  Put up on the 3d of November, 1854  |  3,258 |        |
  Weighed on the 30th of April, 1855, |        |        |
    or after a lapse of 6 months      |  1,613 |  1,645 |   50.4
  Weighed on the 23d of August,       |        |        |
    1855, or after a lapse of         |        |        |
    9 months and 20 days              |  1,297 |  1,961 |   60.0
  Weighed on the 15th of November,    |        |        |
    1855, or after a lapse of         |        |        |
    12 months and 12 days             |  1,235 |  2,023 |   62.1
  ------------------------------------+--------+--------+----------

It will be seen that 100 tons of manure, kept in a heap under cover for six months, would be
reduced to 49.6-10 tons. Whereas, when the same manure was fermented for the same length of
time in the open air, the 100 tons was reduced to only 71.4-10 tons. The difference is due
principally to the fact that the heap exposed contained more water, derived from rain and snow,
than the heap kept under cover. This, of course, is what we should expect. They can form some
idea of what they are getting. If they buy a ton of fresh manure in November, they get 12¾
lbs. of nitrogen, and 30¾ lbs. of soluble mineral matter. If they buy a ton of the same manure
that has been kept under cover until February, they get, nitrogen, 15 lbs.; soluble minerals,
42½ lbs. In April, they get, nitrogen, 23¾ lbs.; soluble minerals, 67½ lbs. In August, they
get, nitrogen, 25½ lbs.; soluble minerals, 61 lbs. In November, when the manure is over one
year old, they get, in a ton, nitrogen, 30¼ lbs.; soluble minerals, 88½ lbs.

When manure has not been exposed, it is clear that a purchaser can
afford to pay considerably more for a ton of rotted manure than for a
ton of fresh manure. But waiving this point for the present, let us see
how the matter stands with the farmer who makes and uses the manure.
What does he gain by keeping and fermenting the manure under cover? |         |         |
  -------------------------------+---------+---------+---------+--------
                                 |   lbs.  |  lbs.   |  lbs.   |  lbs.
  Weight of manure               | 3,258.  |1,613.   |1,297.   |1,235.
                                 +---------+---------+---------+--------
  Amount of water in the manure  | 2,156.  |  917.6  |  563.2  |  514.5
  Amount of dry matter           | 1,102.  |  695.4  |  733.8  |  720.5
  * Consisting of soluble        |         |         |         |
    organic matter               |    80.77|   74.68 |   53.56 |  66.28
      Soluble mineral matter     |    50.14|   54.51 |   39.55 |  54.68
      † Insoluble organic matter |   839.17|  410.24 |  337.32 | 341.97
      Insoluble mineral matter   |   131.92|  155.97 |  303.37 | 257.57
                                 +---------+---------+---------+--------
                                 | 1,102.  |  695.4  |  733.8  |  720.5
                                 |         |         |         |
  * Containing nitrogen          |     4.85|    4.38 |    3.46 |   5.25
  Equal to ammonia               |     5.88|    5.33 |    4.20 |   6.37
  † Containing nitrogen          |    16.08|   14.88 |   13.08 |  13.54
  Equal to ammonia               |    19.59|   17.46 |   15.88 |  16.44
  Total amount of nitrogen       |         |         |         |
    in manure                    |    20.93|   19.26 |   16.54 |  18.79
  Equal to ammonia               |    25.40|   22.79 |   20.08 |  22.81
  The manure contains ammonia    |         |         |         |
    in free state                |     1.10|     .88 |     .19 |   .23
  The manure contains ammonia    |         |         |         |
    in form of salts, easily     |         |         |         |
    decomposed by quicklime      |     2.86|    1.62 |    1.33 |  1.80
  Total amount of organic matter |   919.94|  484.92 |  390.88 | 408.25
  Total amount of mineral matter |   182.06|  210.48 |  342.92 | 312.35
  -------------------------------+---------+---------+---------+--------

This is the table, as given by Dr. Vœlcker. For the sake of comparison, we will figure out
what the changes would be in a heap of five tons (10,000 lbs.) of manure, when fermented under
cover, precisely in the same way as we did with the heap fermented in the open air, exposed
to the rain. The following is the table:

  Contents of a Heap Of Manure at Different Periods. Fermented Under
  Cover.
  Total weight of manure in heap | 10,000  |  4,960  |  4,000  |3,790
  Water in the heap of manure    |  6,617  |  2,822  |  1,737  |1,579
  Total organic matter           |  2,824  |  1,490  |  1,205  |1,253
  Total inorganic matter         |    559  |    646  |  1,057  |  958
  Total nitrogen in heap         |     64.3|     59  |     50.8|   57.2
  Total soluble organic matter   |    248  |    230  |    165  |  203.5
  Insoluble organic matter       |  2,576  |  1,260  |  1,040  |1,049
  Soluble mineral matter         |    154  |    167  |    122  |  168
  Insoluble mineral matter       |    405  |    479  |    935  |  790
  Nitrogen in soluble matter     |     14.9|     13.4|     10.4|   15.9
  Nitrogen in insoluble matter   |     49.4|     45.6|     40.4|   41.3
  Total dry matter in heap       |  3,383  |  2,038  |  2,263  |2,211
  -------------------------------+---------+---------+------------------

It will be seen that the heap of manure kept under cover contained, on the 30th of April, less
soluble organic matter, less soluble mineral matter, less soluble nitrogenous matter, and less
total nitrogen than the heap of manure exposed to the weather. This is precisely what I should
have expected. The heap of manure in the shed probably fermented more rapidly than the heap
out of doors, and there was not water enough in the manure to retain the carbonate of ammonia,
or to favor the production of organic acids. The heap was too dry. If it could have received
enough of the liquid from the stables to have kept it moderately moist, the result would have
been very different.

We will postpone further consideration of this point at present, and look at the results of
another of Dr. Vœlcker’s interesting experiments.

Dr. Vœlcker wished to ascertain the effect of three common methods of managing manure:

1st. Keeping it in a heap in the open air in the barn-yard, or field.

2d. Keeping it in a heap under cover in a shed.

3d. Keeping it spread out over the barn-yard.

“You say these are common methods of managing manure,” remarked the Deacon, “but I never knew
any one in this country take the trouble to spread manure over the yard.”

“Perhaps not,” I replied, “but you have known a good many farmers who adopt this very method
of keeping their manure. They do not spread it--but they let it lie spread out over the yards,
just wherever it happens to be.”

Let us see what the effect of this treatment is on the composition and value of the manure.

We have examined the effect of keeping manure in a heap in the open air, and also of keeping
it in a heap under cover. Now let us see how these methods compare with the practice of leaving
it exposed to the rains, spread out in the yard.

On the 3rd of November, 1854, Dr. Vœlcker weighed out 1,652 lbs. of manure similar to that
used in the preceding experiments, and spread it out in the yard. It was weighed April 30,
and again August 23, and November 15.

The following table gives the actual weight of the manure at the different periods, also the
actual amount of the water, organic matter, ash, nitrogen, etc.:

  Table Showing the Weight and Composition of Entire Mass of
  Experimental Manure (No. Iii.), Fresh Farm-Yard Manure, Spread
  in Open Yard at Different Periods of the Year. In Natural State.   |1,429.   |1,012.   |950.
                                 +---------+---------+---------+--------
  Amount of water in the manure  |1,093.   |1,143.   |  709.3  |622.8
  Amount of dry matter           |  559.   |  285.5  |  302.7  |327.2
  * Consisting of soluble        |         |         |         |
    organic matter               |   40.97 |   16.55 |    4.96 |  3.95
      Soluble mineral matter     |   25.43 |   14.41 |    6.47 |  5.52
      † Insoluble organic matter |  425.67 |  163.79 |  106.81 | 94.45
      Insoluble mineral matter   |   66.93 |   90.75 |  184.46 |223.28
                                 +---------+---------+---------+--------
                                 |  559.00 |  285.50 |  302.70 |327.20
                                 |         |         |         |
  * Containing nitrogen          |    3.28 |    1.19 |     .60 |   .32
  Equal to ammonia               |    3.98 |    1.44 |     .73 |   .39
  † Containing nitrogen          |    6.21 |    6.51 |    3.54 |  3.56
  Equal to ammonia               |    7.54 |    7.90 |    4.29 |  4.25
  Total amount of nitrogen in    |         |         |         |
    manure                       |    9.19 |    7.70 |    4.14 |  3.88
  Equal to ammonia               |   11.52 |    9.34 |    5.02 |  4.64
  The manure contains ammonia    |         |         |         |
    in free state                |     .55 |     .14 |     .13 |   .0055
  The manure contains ammonia    |         |         |         |
    in form of salts, easily     |         |         |         |
    decomposed by quicklime      |    1.45 |     .62 |     .55 |   .28
  Total amount of organic matter |  466.64 |  180.34 |  111.77 | 98.40
  Total amount of mineral matter |   92.36 |  105.16 |  190.93 |228.80
  -------------------------------+---------+---------+---------+--------

“One moment,” said the Deacon. “These tables are a little confusing. The
table you have just given shows the actual weight of the manure in the
heap, and what it contained at different periods.” --“Yes,” said I, “and
the table following shows what 100 lbs. of this manure, spread out in
the yard, contained at the different dates mentioned. It shows how
greatly manure deteriorates by being exposed to rain, spread out on the
surface of the yard.
  Calculated Dry.
                                |spread out,|        |         |
                                |Nov. 3.    |        |         |
  ------------------------------+-----------+--------+---------+--------
                                |  lbs.     |  lbs.  |  lbs.   |  lbs.
  Total weight of manure        | 10,000    | 8,350  | 6,130   | 5,750
  Water in the manure           |  6,617    | 6,922  | 4,297   | 3,771
  Total organic matter          |  2,824    | 1,092  |   677   |   595
  Total inorganic matter        |    559    |   636  | 1,155   | 1,384
  Total nitrogen in manure      |     64.3  |   45.9 |    25   |    22.4
  Total soluble organic matter  |    248    |  100   |    30   |    24
  Insoluble organic matter      |  2,576    |  992   |   647   |   571
  Soluble mineral matter        |    154    |   87   |    39   |    33
  Insoluble mineral matter      |    405    |  549   | 1,116   | 1,351
  Nitrogen in soluble matter    |     14.9  |    6.9 |     3.6 |     1.7
  Nitrogen in insoluble matter  |     49.4  |   39   |    21.4 |    20.7
  ------------------------------+-----------+--------+---------+--------

It is not necessary to make many remarks on this table. The facts speak for themselves. It
will be seen that there is considerable loss even by letting the manure lie spread out until
spring; but, serious as this loss is, it is small compared to the loss sustained by allowing
the manure to lie exposed in the yard during the summer.

In the five tons of fresh manure, we have, November 3, 64.3 lbs. of nitrogen; April 30, we
have 46 lbs.; August 23, only 25 lbs. This is a great loss of the most valuable constituent
of the manure. Of soluble mineral matter, the next most valuable ingredient, we have in the
five tons of fresh manure, November 3, 154 lbs.; April 30, 87 lbs.; and August 23, only 39
lbs. Of soluble nitrogen, the most active and valuable part of the manure, we have, November
3, nearly 15 lbs.; April 30, not quite 7 lbs.; August 23, 3½ lbs.; and November 15, not quite
1¾ lbs.

Dr. Vœlcker made still another experiment. He took 1,613 lbs. of well-rotted dung (mixed manure
from horses, cows, and pigs,) and kept it in a heap, exposed to the weather, from December
5 to April 30, August 23, and November 15, weighing it and analyzing it at these different
dates. I think it is not necessary to give the results in detail. From the 5th of December
to the 30th of April, there was no loss of nitrogen in the heap, and comparatively little loss
of soluble mineral matters; but from April 30 to August 23, there was considerable loss in
both these valuable ingredients, which were washed out of the heap by rain.

Dr. Vœlcker draws the following conclusions from his experiments:

“Having described at length my experiments with farm-yard manure,” he says, “it may not be
amiss to state briefly the more prominent and practically interesting points which have been
developed in the course of this investigation. I would, therefore, observe:

“1. Perfectly fresh farm yard manure contains but a small proportion of free ammonia.

“2. The nitrogen in fresh dung exists principally in the state of insoluble nitrogenized matters.

“3. The soluble organic and mineral constituents of dung are much more valuable fertilizers
than the insoluble. Particular care, therefore, should be bestowed upon the preservation of
the liquid excrements of animals, and for the same reason the manure should be kept in perfectly
water-proof pits of sufficient capacity to render the setting up of dung-heaps in the corner
of fields, as much as it is possible, unnecessary.

“4. Farm-yard manure, even in quite a fresh state, contains phosphate of lime, which is much
more soluble than has hitherto been suspected.

“5. The urine of the horse, cow, and pig, does not contain any appreciable quantity of phosphate
of lime, whilst the drainings of dung-heaps contain considerable quantities of this valuable
fertilizer. The drainings of dung-heaps, partly for this reason, are more valuable than the
urine of our domestic animals, and, therefore, ought to be prevented by all available means
from running to waste.

“6. The most effectual means of preventing loss in fertilizing matters is to cart the manure
directly on the field whenever circumstances allow this to be done.

“7. On all soils with a moderate proportion of clay, no fear need to be entertained of valuable
fertilizing substances becoming wasted if the manure cannot be plowed in at once. Fresh, and
even well-rotten, dung contains very little free ammonia; and since active fermentation, and
with it the further evolution of free ammonia, is stopped by spreading out the manure on the
field, valuable volatile manuring matters can not escape into the air by adopting this plan.

“As all soils with a moderate proportion of clay possess in a remarkable degree the power of
absorbing and retaining manuring matters, none of the saline and soluble organic constituents
are wasted even by a heavy fall of rain. It may, indeed, be questioned whether it is more advisable
to plow in the manure at once, or to let it lie for some time on the surface, and to give the
rain full opportunity to wash it into the soil.

“It appears to me a matter of the greatest importance to regulate the application of manure
to our fields, so that its constituents may become properly diluted and uniformly distributed
amongst a large mass of soil. By plowing in the manure at once, it appears to me, this desirable
end can not be reached so perfectly as by allowing the rain to wash in gradually the manure
evenly spread on the surface of the field.

“By adopting such a course, in case practical experience should confirm my theoretical reasoning,
the objection could no longer be maintained that the land is not ready for carting manure upon
it. I am inclined to recommend, as a general rule: Cart the manure on the field, spread it
at once, and wait for a favorable opportunity to plow it in. In the case of clay soils, I have
no hesitation to say the manure may be spread even six months before it is plowed in, without
losing any appreciable quantity in manuring matter.

“I am perfectly aware, that on stiff clay land, farm-yard manure, more especially long dung,
when plowed in before the frost sets in, exercises a most beneficial action by keeping the
soil loose, and admitting the free access of frost, which pulverizes the land, and would, therefore,
by no means recommend to leave the manure spread on the surface without plowing it in. All
I wish to enforce is, that when no other choice is left but either to set up the manure in
a heap in a corner of the field, or to spread it on the field, without plowing it in directly,
to adopt the latter plan. In the case of very light sandy soils, it may perhaps not be advisable
to spread out the manure a long time before it is plowed in, since such soils do not possess
the power of retaining manuring matters in any marked degree. On light sandy soils, I would
suggest to manure with well-fermented dung, shortly before the crop intended to be grown is sown.

“8. Well-rotten dung contains, likewise, little free ammonia, but a very much larger proportion
of soluble organic and saline mineral matters than fresh manure.

“9. Rotten dung is richer in nitrogen than fresh.

“10. Weight for weight, rotten dung is more valuable than fresh.

“11. In the fermentation of dung, a very considerable proportion of the organic matters in
fresh manure is dissipated into the air in the form of carbonic acid and other gases.

“12. Properly regulated, however, the fermentation of dung is not attended with any great loss
of nitrogen, nor of saline mineral matters.

“13. During the fermentation of dung, ulmic, humic, and other organic acids are formed, as
well as gypsum, which fix the ammonia generated in the decomposition of the nitrogenized constituents
of dung.

“14. During the fermentation of dung, the phosphate of lime which it contains is rendered more
soluble than in fresh manure.

“15. In the interior and heated portions of manure-heaps, ammonia is given off; but, on passing
into the external and cold layers of dung-heaps, the free ammonia is retained in the heap.

“16. Ammonia is not given off from the surface of well-compressed dung-heaps, but on turning
manure-heaps, it is wasted in appreciable quantities. Dung-heaps, for this reason, should not
be turned more frequently than absolutely necessary.

“17. No advantage appears to result from carrying on the fermentation of dung too far, but
every disadvantage.

“18. Farm-yard manure becomes deteriorated in value, when kept in heaps exposed to the weather,
the more the longer it is kept.

“19. The loss in manuring matters, which is incurred in keeping manure-heaps exposed to the
weather, is not so much due to the volatilization of ammonia as to the removal of ammoniacal
salts, soluble nitrogenized organic matters, and valuable mineral matters, by the rain which
falls in the period during which the manure is kept.

“20. If rain is excluded from dung-heaps, or little rain falls at a time, the loss in ammonia
is trifling, and no saline matters, of course, are removed; but, if much rain falls, especially
if it descends in heavy showers upon the dung-heap, a serious loss in ammonia, soluble organic
matter, phosphate of lime, and salts of potash is incurred, and the manure becomes rapidly
deteriorated in value, whilst at the same time it is diminished in weight.

“21. Well-rotten dung is more readily affected by the deteriorating influence of rain than
fresh manure.

“22. Practically speaking, all the essentially valuable manuring constituents are preserved
by keeping farm-yard manure under cover.

“23. If the animals have been supplied with plenty of litter, fresh dung contains an insufficient
quantity of water to induce an active fermentation. In this case, fresh dung can not be properly
fermented under cover, except water or liquid manure is pumped over the heap from time to time.

“Where much straw is used in the manufacture of dung, and no provision is made to supply the
manure in the pit at any time with the requisite amount of moisture, it may not be advisable
to put up a roof over the dung-pit. On the other hand, on farms where there is a deficiency
of straw, so that the moisture of the excrements of our domestic animals is barely absorbed
by the litter, the advantage of erecting a roof over the dung-pit will be found very great.

“24. The worst method of making manure is to produce it by animals kept in open yards, since
a large proportion of valuable fertilizing matters is wasted in a short time; and after a lapse
of twelve months, at least two-thirds of the substance of the manure is wasted, and only one-third,
inferior in quality to an equal weight of fresh dung, is left behind.

“25. The most rational plan of keeping manure in heaps appears to me that adopted by Mr. Lawrence,
of Cirencester, and described by him at length in Morton’s ‘Cyclopædia of Agriculture,’ under
the head of ‘Manure.’”

CHAPTER XVI.

AN ENGLISH PLAN OF KEEPING MANURE.

“I would like to know,” said the Deacon, “how Mr. Lawrence manages his manure, especially as
his method has received such high commendation.”

Charley got the second volume of “Morton’s Cyclopædia of Agriculture,” from the book shelves,
and turned to the article on “Manure.” He found that Mr. Lawrence adopted the “Box System”
of feeding cattle, and used cut or chaffed straw for bedding. And Mr. Lawrence claims that
by this plan “manure will have been made under the most perfect conditions.” And “when the
boxes are full at those periods of the year at which manure is required for the succeeding
crops, it will be most advantageously disposed of by being transferred at once to the land,
and covered in.”

“Good,” said the Deacon, “I think he is right there.” Charley continued, and read as follows:

“But there will be accumulations of manure requiring removal from the homestead at other seasons,
at which it cannot be so applied, and when it must be stored for future use. The following
has been found an effectual and economical mode of accomplishing this; more particularly when
cut litter is used, it saves the cost of repeated turnings, and effectually prevents the decomposition
and waste of the most active and volatile principle.

“Some three or more spots are selected according to the size of the farm, in convenient positions
for access to the land under tillage, and by the side of the farm roads. The sites fixed on
are then excavated about two feet under the surrounding surface. In the bottom is laid some
three or four inches of earth to absorb any moisture, on which the manure is emptied from the
carts. This is evenly spread, and well trodden as the heap is forming. As soon as this is about
a foot above the ground level, to allow for sinking, the heap is gradually gathered in, until
it is completed in the form of an ordinary steep roof, slightly rounded at the top by the final
treading. In the course of building this up, about a bushel of salt, to two cart-loads of dung
is sprinkled amongst it. The base laid out at any one time should not exceed that required
by the manure ready for the complete formation of the heap as far as it goes; and within a
day or two after such portion is built up, and it has settled into shape, a thin coat of earth
in a moist state is plastered entirely over the surface. Under these conditions decomposition
does not take place, in consequence of the exclusion of the air; or at any rate to so limited
an extent, that the ammonia is absorbed by the earth, for there is not a trace of it perceptible
about the heap; though, when put together without such covering, this is perceptible enough
to leeward at a hundred yards’ distance.

“When heaps thus formed are resorted to in the autumn, either for the young seeds, or for plowing
in on the stubbles after preparing for the succeeding root crop, the manure will be found undiminished
in quantity and unimpaired in quality; in fact, simply consolidated. Decomposition then proceeds
within the soil, where all its results are appropriated, and rendered available for the succeeding
cereal as well as the root crop.

“It would be inconvenient to plaster the heap, were the ridge, when settled, above six or seven
feet from the ground level; the base may be formed about ten to twelve feet wide, and the ridge
about nine feet from the base, which settles down to about seven feet; this may be extended
to any length as further supplies of manure require removal. One man is sufficient to form
the heap, and it is expedient to employ the same man for this service, who soon gets into the
way of performing the work neatly and quickly. It has been asked where a farmer is to get the
earth to cover his heaps--it may be answered, keep your roads scraped when they get muddy on
the surface during rainy weather--in itself good economy--and leave this in small heaps beyond
the margin of your roads. This, in the course of the year, will be found an ample provision
for the purpose, for it is unnecessary to lay on a coat more than one or two inches in thickness,
which should be done when in a moist state. At any rate, there will always be found an accumulation
on headlands that may be drawn upon if need be.

“Farmers who have not been in the habit of bestowing care on the manufacture and subsequent
preservation of their manure, and watching results, have no conception of the importance of
this. A barrowful of such manure as has been described, would produce a greater weight of roots
and corn, than that so graphically described by the most talented and accomplished of our agricultural
authors--as the contents of ‘neighbour Drychaff’s dung-cart, that creaking hearse, that is
carrying to the field the dead body whose spirit has departed.’

“There is a source of valuable and extremely useful manure on every farm, of which very few
farmers avail themselves--the gathering together in one spot of all combustible waste and rubbish,
the clippings of hedges, scouring of ditches, grassy accumulation on the sides of roads and
fences, etc., combined with a good deal of earth. If these are carted at leisure times into
a large circle, or in two rows, to supply the fire kindled in the center, in a spot which is
frequented by the laborers on the farm, with a three-pronged fork and a shovel attendant, and
each passer-by is encouraged to add to the pile whenever he sees the smoke passing away so
freely as to indicate rapid combustion, a very large quantity of valuable ashes are collected
between March and October. In the latter month the fire should be allowed to go out; the ashes
are then thrown into a long ridge, as high as they will stand, and thatched while dry. This
will be found an invaluable store in April, May, and June, capable of supplying from twenty
to forty bushels of ashes per acre, according to the care and industry of the collector, to
drill with the seeds of the root crop.”

The Deacon got sleepy before Charley finished reading. “We can not afford to be at so much
trouble in this country,” he said, and took up his hat and left.

The Deacon is not altogether wrong. Our climate is very different from that of England, and
it is seldom that farmers need to draw out manure, and pile it in the field, except in winter,
and then it is not necessary, I think, either to dig a pit or to cover the heap. Those who
draw manure from the city in summer, may probably adopt some of Mr. Lawrence’s suggestions
with advantage.

The plan of collecting rubbish, brush, old wood, and sods, and converting them into ashes or
charcoal, is one which we could often adopt with decided advantage. Our premises would be cleaner,
and we should have less fungus to speck and crack our apples and pears, and, in addition, we
should have a quantity of ashes or burnt earth, that is not only a manure itself, but is specially
useful to mix with moist superphosphate and other artificial manures, to make them dry enough
and bulky enough to be easily and evenly distributed by the drill. Artificial manures, so mixed
with these ashes, or dry, charred earth, are less likely to injure the seed than when sown
with the seed in the drill-rows, unmixed with some such material. Sifted coal ashes are also
very useful for this purpose.

CHAPTER XVII.

SOLUBLE PHOSPHATES IN FARMYARD MANURE.

There is one thing in these experiments of Dr. Vœlcker’s which deserves special attention,
and that is the comparatively large amount of soluble phosphate of lime in the ash of farm-yard
manure. I do not think the fact is generally known. In estimating the value of animal manures,
as compared with artificial manures, it is usually assumed that the phosphates in the former
are insoluble, and, therefore, of less value than the soluble phosphates in superphosphate
of lime and other artificial manures.

Dr. Vœlcker found in the ash of fresh farm-yard manure, phosphoric acid equal to 12.23 per
cent of phosphate of lime, and of this 5.35 was soluble phosphate of lime.

In the ash of well-rotted manure, he found phosphoric acid equal to 12.11 per cent of phosphate
of lime, and of this, 4.75 was soluble phosphate of lime. When he wrote the sentence you have
quoted, he probably had reference to the fact that he found more soluble phosphate of lime
in rotted manure than in fresh manure. Thus, he found in 5 tons of fresh and 5 tons of rotted,
manure, the following ingredients:

  SP:  Soluble Phosphate of Lime.
  IP:  Insoluble phosphates.
  TP:  Total Phosphates.
  TSA: Total Soluble Ash.
  TIA: Total Insoluble Ash.
  TA:  Total Ash.

  --------------+-----+-----+-----+-------------+-----+-----+-----
                |     |     |     |   Potash    |     |     |
     5 Tons.    | SP  | IP  | TP  +------+------+ TSA | TIA | TA
  (10,000 LBS.) |     |     |     | Sol. |Insol.|     |     |
  --------------+-----+-----+-----+------+------+-----+-----+-----
  Fresh manure  | 29.9| 38.6| 68.5| 57.3 |  9.9 | 154 | 405 | 559
  Rotted manure | 38.2|57.3 |95.5 | 44.6 |  4.5 | 147 | 658 | 805
  --------------+-----+-----+-----+------+------+-----+-----+-----

“It will be seen from the above figures that rotted manure contains more soluble phosphate
of lime than fresh manure.

“But it does not follow from this fact that any of the insoluble phosphates in fresh manure
have been rendered soluble during the fermentation of the manure.

“There are more insoluble phosphates in the rotted manure than in the fresh, but we do not
conclude from this fact that any of the phosphates have been rendered insoluble during the
process of fermentation--neither are we warranted in concluding that any of them have been
rendered soluble, simply because we find more soluble phosphates in the rotted manure.”

“Very true,” said the Doctor, “but it has been shown that in the heap of manure, during fermentation,
there was an actual increase of soluble mineral matter during the first six months, and, to
say the least, it is highly probable that some of this increase of soluble mineral matter contained
more or less soluble phosphates, and perhaps Dr. Vœlcker had some facts to show that such was
the case, although he may not have published them. At any rate, he evidently thinks that the
phosphates in manure are rendered more soluble by fermentation.”

“Perhaps,” said I, “we can not do better than to let the matter rest in that form. I am merely
anxious not to draw definite conclusions from the facts which the facts do not positively prove.
I am strongly in favor of fermenting manure, and should be glad to have it shown that fermentation
does actually convert insoluble phosphates into a soluble form.”

There is one thing, however, that these experiments clearly prove, and that is, that there
is a far larger quantity of soluble phosphates in manure than is generally supposed. Of the
total phosphoric acid in the fresh manure, 43 per cent is in a soluble condition; and in the
rotted manure, 40 per cent is soluble.

This is an important fact, and one which is generally overlooked. It enhances the value of
farm-yard or stable manure, as compared with artificial manures. But of this we may have more
to say when we come to that part of the subject. I want to make one remark. I think there can
be little doubt that the proportion of soluble phosphates is greater in rich manure, made from
grain-fed animals, than in poor manure made principally from straw. In other words, of 100
lbs. of total phosphoric acid, more of it would be in a soluble condition in the rich than
in the poor manure.

CHAPTER XVIII.

HOW THE DEACON MAKES MANURE.

“I think,” said the Deacon, “you are talking too much about the science of manure making. Science
is all well enough, but practice is better.”

“That depends,” said I, “on the practice. Suppose you tell us how you manage your manure.”

“Well,” said the Deacon, “I do not know much about plant-food, and nitrogen, and phosphoric
acid, but I think manure is a good thing, and the more you have of it the better. I do not
believe in your practice of spreading manure on the land and letting it lie exposed to the
sun and winds. I want to draw it out in the spring and plow it under for corn. I think this
long, coarse manure loosens the soil and makes it light, and warm, and porous. And then my
plan saves labor. More than half of my manure is handled but once. It is made in the yard and
sheds, and lies there until it is drawn to the field in the spring. The manure from the cow
and horse stables, and from the pig-pens, is thrown into the yard, and nothing is done to it
except to level it down occasionally. In proportion to the stock kept, I think I make twice
as much manure as you do.”

“Yes,” said I, “twice as much in bulk, but one load of my manure is worth four loads of your
long, coarse manure, composed principally of corn-stalks, straw, and water. I think you are
wise in not spending much time in piling and working over such manure.”

The Deacon and I have a standing quarrel about manure. We differ on all points. He is a good
man, but not what we call a good farmer. He cleared up his farm from the original forest, and
he has always been content to receive what his land would give him. If he gets good crops,
well, if not, his expenses are moderate, and he manages to make both ends meet. I tell him
he could double his crops, and quadruple his profits, by better farming--but though he cannot
disprove the facts, he is unwilling to make any change in his system of farming. And so he
continues to make just as much manure as the crops he is obliged to feed out leave in his yards,
and no more. He does not, in fact, make any manure. He takes what comes, and gets it on to
his land with as little labor as possible.

It is no use arguing with such a man. And it certainly will not do to contend that his method
of managing manure is all wrong. His error is in making such poor manure. But with such poor
stuff as he has in his yard, I believe he is right to get rid of it with the least expense
possible.

I presume, too, that the Deacon is not altogether wrong in regard to the good mechanical effects
of manure on undrained and indifferently cultivated land. I have no doubt that he bases his
opinion on experience. The good effects of such manure as he makes must be largely due to its
mechanical action--it can do little towards supplying the more important and valuable elements
of plant-food.

I commend the Deacon’s system of managing manure to all such as make a similar article. But
I think there is a more excellent way. Feed the stock better, make richer manure, and then
it will pay to bestow a little labor in taking care of it.

CHAPTER XIX.

HOW JOHN JOHNSTON MANAGES HIS MANURE.

One of the oldest and most successful farmers, in the State of New York, is John Johnston,
of Geneva. He has a farm on the borders of Seneca Lake. It is high, rolling land, but needed
underdraining. This has been thoroughly done--and done with great profit and advantage. The
soil is a heavy clay loam. Mr. Johnston has been in the habit of summer-fallowing largely for
wheat, generally plowing three, and sometimes four times. He has been a very successful wheat-grower,
almost invariably obtaining large crops of wheat, both of grain and straw. The straw he feeds
to sheep in winter, putting more straw in the racks than the sheep can eat up clean, and using
what they leave for bedding. The sheep run in yards enclosed with tight board fences, and have
sheds under the barn to lie in at pleasure.

Although the soil is rather heavy for Indian corn, Mr. Johnston succeeds in growing large crops
of this great American cereal. Corn and stalks are both fed out on the farm. Mr. J. has not
yet practised cutting up his straw and stalks into chaff.

The land is admirably adapted to the growth of red clover, and great crops of clover and timothy-hay
are raised, and fed out on the farm. Gypsum, or plaster, is sown quite freely on the clover
in the spring. Comparatively few roots are raised--not to exceed an acre--and these only quite
recently. The main crops are winter wheat, spring barley, Indian corn, clover, and timothy-hay,
and clover-seed.

The materials for making manure, then, are wheat and barley straw, Indian corn, corn-stalks,
clover, and timothy-hay. These are all raised on the farm. But Mr. Johnston has for many years
purchased linseed-oil cake, to feed to his sheep and cattle.

This last fact must not be overlooked. Mr. J. commenced to feed oil-cake when its value was
little known here, and when he bought it for, I think, seven or eight dollars a ton. He continued
to use it even when he had to pay fifty dollars per ton. Mr. J. has great faith in manure--and
it is a faith resting on good evidence and long experience. If he had not fed out so much oil-cake
and clover-hay, he would not have found his manure so valuable.

“How much oil-cake does he use?” asked the Deacon.

“He gives his sheep, on the average, about 1 lb. each per day.”

If he feeds out a ton of clover-hay, two tons of straw, (for feed and bedding,) and one ton
of oil-cake, the manure obtained from this quantity of food and litter, would be worth, according
to Mr. Lawes’ table, given on page 45, $34.72.

On the other hand, if he fed out one ton of corn, one ton of clover-hay, and two tons of straw,
for feed and bedding, the manure would be worth $21.65.

If he fed one ton of corn, and three tons of straw, the manure would be worth only $14.69.

He would get as much manure from the three tons of straw and one ton of corn, as from the two
tons of straw, one ton of clover-hay, and one ton of oil-cake, while, as before said, the manure
in the one case would be worth $14.69, and in the other $34.72.

In other words, a load of the good manure would be worth, when spread out on the land in the
field or garden, more than two loads of the straw and corn manure.

To get the same amount of nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, you have to spend more than
twice the labor in cleaning out the stables or yards, more than twice the labor of throwing
or wheeling it to the manure pile, more than twice the labor of turning the manure in the pile,
more than twice the labor of loading it on the carts or wagons, more than twice the labor of
drawing it to the field, more than twice the labor of unloading it into heaps, and more than
twice the labor of spreading it in the one case than in the other, and, after all, twenty tons
of this poor manure would not produce as good an effect the first season as ten tons of the
richer manure.

“Why so?” asked the Deacon.

“Simply because the poor manure is not so active as the richer manure. It will not decompose
so readily. Its nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, are not so available. The twenty tons,
may, in the long run, do as much good as the ten tons, but I very much doubt it. At any rate,
I would greatly prefer the ten tons of the good manure to twenty tons of the poor--even when
spread out on the land, ready to plow under. What the difference would be in the value of the
manure in the yard, you can figure for yourself. It would depend on the cost of handling, drawing,
and spreading the extra ten tons.”

The Deacon estimates the cost of loading, drawing, unloading, and spreading, at fifty cents
a ton. This is probably not far out of the way, though much depends on the distance the manure
has to be drawn, and also on the condition of the manure, etc.

The four tons of feed and bedding will make, at a rough estimate about ten tons of manure.

This ten tons of straw and corn manure, according to Mr. Lawes’ estimate, is worth, in the
field, $14.69. And if it costs fifty cents a load to get it on the land, its value, in the
yard, would be $9.69--or nearly ninety-seven cents a ton.

The ten tons of good manure, according to the same estimate, is worth, in the field, $34.72,
and, consequently, would be worth, in the yard, $29.72. In other words, a ton of poor manure
is worth, in the yard, ninety-seven cents a ton, and the good manure $2.97.

And so in describing John Johnston’s method of managing manure, this fact must be borne in
mind. It might not pay the Deacon to spend much labor on manure worth only ninety-seven cents
a ton, while it might pay John Johnston to bestow some considerable time and labor on manure
worth $2.97 per ton.

“But is it really worth this sum?” asked the Deacon.

“In reply to that,” said I, “all I claim is that the figures are comparative. If your manure,
made as above described, is worth ninety-seven cents a ton in the yard, then John Johnston’s
manure, made as stated, is certainly worth, at least, $2.97 per ton in the yard.”

Of this there can be no doubt.

“If you think,” I continued, “your manure, so made, is worth only half as much as Mr. Lawes’
estimate; in other words, if your ten tons of manure, instead of being worth $14.69 in the
field, is worth only $7.35; then John Johnston’s ten tons of manure, instead of being worth
$34.72 in the field, is worth only $17.36.”

“That looks a little more reasonable,” said the Deacon, “John Johnston’s manure, instead of
being worth $2.97 per ton in the yard, is worth only $1.48 per ton, and mine, instead of being
worth ninety-seven cents a ton, is worth forty-eight and a half cents a ton.”

The Deacon sat for a few minutes looking at these figures. “They do not seem so extravagantly
high as I thought them at first,” he said, “and if you will reduce the figures in Mr. Lawes’
table one-half all through, it will be much nearer the truth. I think my manure is worth forty-eight
and a half cents a ton in the yard, and if your figures are correct, I suppose I must admit
that John Johnston’s manure is worth $1.48 per ton in the yard.”

I was very glad to get such an admission from the Deacon. He did not see that he had made a
mistake in the figures, and so I got him to go over the calculation again.

“You take a pencil, Deacon,” said I, “and write down the figures:

  Manure from a ton of oil-cake                   $19.72
  Manure from a ton of clover-hay                   9.64
  Manure from two tons of straw                     5.36
                                                 --------
                                                  $34.72

“This would make about ten tons of manure. We have agreed to reduce the estimate one-half,
and consequently we have $17.36 as the value of the ten tons of manure.

“This is John Johnston’s manure. It is worth $1.73 per ton in the field.

“It costs, we have estimated, 50 cents a ton to handle the manure, and consequently it is worth
in the yard $1.23 per ton.”

“This is less than we made it before,” said the Deacon.

“Never mind that,” said I, “the figures are correct. Now write down what your manure is worth:

  Manure from 1 ton of corn                        $6.65
  Manure from 3 tons of straw                       8.04
                                                 --------
                                                  $14.69

“This will make about ten tons of manure. In this case, as in the other, we are to reduce the
estimate one-half. Consequently, we have $7.35 as the value of this ten tons of manure in the
field, or 73½ cents a ton. The Deacon’s manure is worth in the yard, 23½ cents per ton.”

“There is some mistake,” exclaimed the Deacon, “you said, at first, that one load of John Johnston’s
manure was worth as much as two of my loads. Now you make one load of his manure worth more
than five loads of my manure. This is absurd.”

“Not at all, Deacon,” said I, “you made the figures yourself. You thought Mr. Lawes’ estimate
too high. You reduced it one-half. The figures are correct, and you must accept the conclusion.
If John Johnston’s manure is only worth $1.23 per ton in the yard, yours, made from 1 ton of
corn and 3 tons of straw, is only worth 23½ cents per ton.”

“And now, Deacon,” I continued, “while you have a pencil in your hand, I want you to make one
more calculation. Assuming that Mr. Lawes’ estimate is too high, and we reduce it one-half,
figure up what manure is worth when made from straw alone. You take 4 tons of wheat straw,
feed out part, and use part for bedding. It will give you about 10 tons of manure. And this
10 tons cost you 50 cents a ton to load, draw out, and spread. Now figure:

“Four tons of straw is worth, for manure, according to Mr. Lawes’ table, $2.68 per ton. We
have agreed to reduce the figures one half, and so the

  10 tons of manure from the 4 tons of straw is worth   $5.36
  Drawing out 10 tons of manure at 50 cents              5.00
                                                      --------
  Value of 10 tons of straw-manure in yard            $0.36

“In other words, if John Johnston’s manure is worth only $1.23 per ton in the yard, the straw-made
manure is worth only a little over 3½ cents a ton in the yard.”

“That is too absurd,” said the Deacon.

“Very well,” I replied, “for once I am glad to agree with you. But if this is absurd, then
it follows that Mr. Lawes’ estimate of the value of certain foods for manure is not so extravagant
as you supposed--which is precisely what I wished to prove.”

“You have not told us how Mr. Johnston manages his manure,” said the Deacon.

“There is nothing very remarkable about it,” I replied. “There are many farmers in this neighborhood
who adopt the same method. I think, however, John Johnston was the first to recommend it, and
subjected himself to some criticism from some of the so-called scientific writers at the time.

“His general plan is to leave the manure in the yards, basements, and sheds, under the sheep,
until spring. He usually sells his fat sheep in March. As soon as the sheep are removed, the
manure is either thrown up into loose heaps in the yard, or drawn directly to the field, where
it is to be used, and made into a heap there. The manure is not spread on the land until the
autumn. It remains in the heaps or piles all summer, being usually turned once, and sometimes
twice. The manure becomes thoroughly rotted.”

Mr. Johnston, like the Deacon, applies his manure to the corn crop. But the Deacon draws out
his fresh green manure in the spring, on sod-land, and plows it under. Mr. Johnston, on the
other hand, keeps his manure in a heap through the summer, spreads it on the sod in September,
or the first week in October. Here it lies until next spring. The grass and clover grow up
through manure, and the grass and manure are turned under next spring, and the land planted
to corn.

Mr. Johnston is thoroughly convinced that he gets far more benefit from the manure when applied
on the surface, and left exposed for several months, than if he plowed it under at once.

I like to write and talk about John Johnston. I like to visit him. He is so delightfully enthusiastic,
believes so thoroughly in good farming, and has been so eminently successful, that a day spent
in his company can not fail to encourage any farmer to renewed efforts in improving his soil.
“You must drain,” he wrote to me; “when I first commenced farming, I never made any money until
I began to underdrain.” But it is not underdraining alone that is the cause of his eminent
success. When he bought his farm, “near Geneva,” over fifty years ago, there was a pile of
manure in the yard that had lain there year after year, until it was, as he said, “as black
as my hat.” The former owner regarded it as a nuisance, and a few months before young Johnston
bought the farm, had given some darkies a cow on condition that they would draw out this manure.
They drew out six loads, took the cow--and that was the last seen of them. Johnston drew out
this manure, raised a good crop of wheat, and that gave him a start. He says he has been asked
a great many times to what he owes his success as a farmer, and he has replied that he could
not tell whether it was “dung or credit.” It was probably neither. It was the man--his intelligence,
industry, and good common sense. That heap of black mould was merely an instrument in his hands
that he could turn to good account.

His first crop of wheat gave him “credit” and this also he used to advantage. He believed that
good farming would pay, and it was this faith in a generous soil that made him willing to spend
the money obtained from the first crop of wheat in enriching the land, and to avail himself
of his credit. Had he lacked this faith--had he hoarded every sixpence he could have ground
out of the soil, who would have ever heard of John Johnston? He has been liberal with his crops
and his animals, and has ever found them grateful. This is the real lesson which his life teaches.

He once wrote me he had something to show me. He did not tell me what it was, and when I got
there, he took me to a field of grass that was to be mown for hay. The field had been in winter
wheat the year before. At the time of sowing the wheat, the whole field was seeded down with
timothy. No clover was sown, either then or in the spring; but after the wheat was sown, he
put on a slight dressing of manure on two portions of the field that he thought were poor.
He told the man to spread it out of the wagon just as thin as he could distribute it evenly
over the land. It was a very light manuring, but the manure was rich, and thoroughly rotted.
I do not recollect whether the effect of the manure was particularly noticed on the wheat;
but on the grass, the following spring, the effect was sufficiently striking. Those two portions
of the field where the manure was spread were covered with a splendid crop of red clover. You
could see the exact line, in both cases, where the manure reached. It looked quite curious.
No clover-seed was sown, and yet there was as fine a crop of clover as one could desire.

On looking into the matter more closely, we found that there was more or less clover all over
the field, but where the manure was not used, it could hardly be seen. The plants were small,
and the timothy hid them from view. But where the manure was used, these plants of clover had
been stimulated in their growth until they covered the ground. The leaves were broad and vigorous,
while in the other case they were small, and almost dried up. This is probably the right explanation.
The manure did not “bring in the clover;” it simply increased the growth of that already in
the soil. It shows the value of manure for grass.

This is what Mr. Johnston wanted to show me. “I might have written and told you, but you would
not have got a clear idea of the matter.” This is true. One had to see the great luxuriance
of that piece of clover to fully appreciate the effect of the manure. Mr. J. said the manure
on that grass was worth $30 an acre--that is, on the three crops of grass, before the field
is again plowed. I have no doubt that this is true, and that the future crops on the land will
also be benefited--not directly from the manure, perhaps, but from the clover-roots in the
soil. And if the field were pastured, the effect on future crops would be very decided.

CHAPTER XX.

MY OWN PLAN OF MANAGING MANURE.

One of the charms and the advantages of agriculture is that a farmer must think for himself.
He should study principles, and apply them in practice, as best suits his circumstances.

My own method of managing manure gives me many of the advantages claimed for the Deacon’s method,
and John Johnston’s, also.

“I do not understand what you mean,” said the Deacon; “my method differs essentially from that
of John Johnston.”

“True,” I replied, “you use your winter-made manure in the spring; while Mr. Johnston piles
his, and gets it thoroughly fermented; but to do this, he has to keep it until the autumn,
and it does not benefit his corn-crop before the next summer. He loses the use of his manure
for a year.”

I think my method secures both these advantages. I get my winter-made manure fermented and
in good condition, and yet have it ready for spring crops.

In the first place, I should remark that my usual plan is to cut up all the fodder for horses,
cows, and sheep. For horses, I sometimes use long straw for bedding, but, as a rule, I prefer
to run everything through a feed-cutter. We do not steam the food, and we let the cows and
sheep have a liberal supply of cut corn-stalks and straw, and what they do not eat is thrown
out of the mangers and racks, and used for bedding.

I should state, too, that I keep a good many pigs, seldom having less than 50 breeding sows.
My pigs are mostly sold at from two to four months old, but we probably average 150 head the
year round. A good deal of my manure, therefore, comes from the pig-pens, and from two basement
cellars, where my store hogs sleep in winter.

In addition to the pigs, we have on the farm from 150 to 200 Cotswold and grade sheep; 10 cows,
and 8 horses. These are our manure makers.

The raw material from which the manure is manufactured consists of wheat, barley, rye, and
oat-straw, corn-stalks, corn-fodder, clover and timothy-hay, clover seed-hay, bean-straw, pea-straw,
potato-tops, mangel-wurzel, turnips, rape, and mustard. These are all raised on the farm; and,
in addition to the home-grown oats, peas, and corn, we buy and feed out considerable quantities
of bran, shorts, fine-middlings, malt-combs, corn-meal, and a little oil-cake. I sell wheat,
rye, barley, and clover-seed, apples, and potatoes, and sometimes cabbages and turnips. Probably,
on the average, for each $100 I receive from the sale of these crops, I purchase $25 worth
of bran, malt-combs, corn-meal, and other feed for animals. My farm is now rapidly increasing
in fertility and productiveness. The crops, on the average, are certainly at least double what
they were when I bought the farm thirteen years ago; and much of this increase has taken place
during the last five or six years, and I expect to see still greater improvement year by year.

“Never mind all that,” said the Deacon; “we all know that manure will enrich land, and I will
concede that your farm has greatly improved, and can not help but improve if you continue to
make and use as much manure.”

“I expect to make more and more manure every year,” said I. “The larger the crops, the more
manure we can make; and the more manure we make, the larger the crops.”

The real point of difference between my plan of managing manure, and the plan adopted by the
Deacon, is essentially this: I aim to keep all my manure in a compact pile, where it will slowly
ferment all winter. The Deacon throws his horse-manure into a heap, just outside the stable
door, and the cow-manure into another heap, and the pig-manure into another heap. These heaps
are more or less scattered, and are exposed to the rain, and snow, and frost. The horse-manure
is quite likely to ferment too rapidly, and if in a large heap, and the weather is warm, it
not unlikely “fire-fangs” in the center of the heap. On the other hand, the cow-manure lies
cold and dead, and during the winter freezes into solid lumps.

I wheel or cart all my manure into one central heap. The main object is to keep it as compact
as possible. There are two advantages in this: 1st, the manure is less exposed to the rain,
and (2d), when freezing weather sets in, only a few inches of the external portion of the heap
is frozen. I have practised this plan for several years, and can keep my heap of manure slowly
fermenting during the whole winter.

But in order to ensure this result, it is necessary to begin making the heap before winter
sets in. The plan is this:

Having selected the spot in the yard most convenient for making the heap, collect all the manure
that can be found in the sheepyards, sheds, cow and horse stables, pig-pens, and hen-house,
together with leaves, weeds, and refuse from the garden, and wheel or cart it to the intended
heap. If you set a farm-man to do the work, tell him you want to make a hot-bed about five
feet high, six feet wide, and six feet long. I do not think I have ever seen a farm where enough
material could not be found, say in November, to make such a heap. And this is all that is
needed. If the manure is rich, if it is obtained from animals eating clover-hay, bran, grain,
or other food rich in nitrogen, it will soon ferment. But if the manure is poor, consisting
largely of straw, it will be very desirable to make it richer by mixing with it bone-dust,
blood, hen-droppings, woollen rags, chamber-lye, and animal matter of any kind that you can find.

The richer you can make the manure, the more readily will it ferment. A good plan is to take
the horse or sheep manure, a few weeks previous, and use it for bedding the pigs. It will absorb
the liquid of the pigs, and make rich manure, which will soon ferment when placed in a heap.

If the manure in the heap is too dry, it is a good plan, when you are killing hogs, to throw
on to the manure all the warm water, hair, blood, intestines, etc. You may think I am making
too much of such a simple matter, but I have had letters from farmers who have tried this plan
of managing manure, and they say that they can not keep it from freezing. One reason for this
is, that they do not start the heap early enough, and do not take pains to get the manure into
an active fermentation before winter sets in. Much depends on this. In starting a fire, you
take pains to get a little fine, dry wood, that will burn readily, and when the fire is fairly
going, put on larger sticks, and presently you have such a fire that you can burn wood, coal,
stubble, sods, or anything you wish. And so it is with a manure-heap. Get the fire, or fermentation,
or, more strictly speaking, putrefaction fairly started, and there will be little trouble,
if the heap is large enough, and fresh material is added from time to time, of continuing the
fermentation all winter.

Another point to be observed, and especially in cold weather, is to keep the sides of the heap
straight, and the top level. You must expose the manure in the heap as little as possible to
frost and cold winds. The rule should be to spread every wheel-barrowful of manure as soon
as it is put on the heap. If left unspread on top of the heap, it will freeze; and if afterwards
covered with other manure, it will require considerable heat to melt it, and thus reduce the
temperature of the whole heap.

It is far less work to manage a heap of manure in this way than may be supposed from my description
of the plan. The truth is, I find, in point of fact, that it is not an easy thing to manage
manure in this way; and I fear not one farmer in ten will succeed the first winter he undertakes
it, unless he gives it his personal attention. It is well worth trying, however, because if
your heap should freeze up, it will be, at any rate, in no worse condition than if managed
in the ordinary way; and if you do succeed, even in part, you will have manure in good condition
for immediate use in the spring.

As I have said before, I keep a good many pigs. Now pigs, if fed on slops, void a large quantity
of liquid manure, and it is not always easy to furnish straw enough to absorb it. When straw
and stalks are cut into chaff, they will absorb much more liquid than when used whole. For
this reason we usually cut all our straw and stalks. We also use the litter from the horse-stable
for bedding the store hogs, and also sometimes, when comparatively dry, we use the refuse sheep
bedding for the same purpose. Where the sheep barn is contiguous to the pig-pens, and when
the sheep bedding can be thrown at once into the pig-pens or cellar, it is well to use bedding
freely for the sheep and lambs, and remove it frequently, throwing it into the pig-pens. I
do not want my sheep to be compelled to eat up the straw and corn-stalks too close. I want
them to pick out what they like, and then throw away what they leave in the troughs for bedding.
Sometimes we take out a five-bushel basketful of these direct from the troughs, for bedding
young pigs, or sows and pigs in the pens, but as a rule, we use them first for bedding the
sheep, and then afterwards use the sheep bedding in the fattening or store pig-pens.

“And sometimes,” remarked the Deacon, “you use a little long straw for your young pigs to sleep
on, so that they can bury themselves in the straw and keep warm.”

“True,” I replied, “and it is not a bad plan, but we are not now talking about the management
of pigs, but how we treat our manure, and how we manage to have it ferment all winter.”

A good deal of our pig-manure is, to borrow a phrase from the pomologists, “double-worked.”
It is horse or sheep-manure, used for bedding pigs and cows. It is saturated with urine, and
is much richer in nitrogenous material than ordinary manure, and consequently will ferment
or putrefy much more rapidly. Usually pig-manure is considered “cold,” or sluggish, but this
doubleworked pig-manure will ferment even more rapidly than sheep or horse-manure alone.

Unmixed cow-manure is heavy and cold, and when kept in a heap by itself out of doors, is almost
certain to freeze up solid during the winter.

We usually wheel out our cow-dung every day, and spread on the manure heap.

This is one of the things that needs attention. There will be a constant tendency to put all
the cow-dung together, instead of mixing it with the lighter and more active manure from the
horses, sheep, and pigs. Spread it out and cover it with some of the more strawy manure, which
is not so liable to freeze.

Should it so happen--as will most likely be the case--that on looking at your heap some morning
when the thermometer is below zero, you find that several wheel-barrowfuls of manure that were
put on the heap the day before, were not spread, and are now crusted over with ice, it will
be well to break up the barrowfuls, even if necessary to use a crowbar, and place the frozen
lumps of manure on the outside of the heap, rather than to let them lie in the center of the
pile. Your aim should be always to keep the center of the heap warm and in a state of fermentation.
You do not want the fire to go out, and it will not go out if the heap is properly managed,
even should all the sides and top be crusted over with a layer of frozen manure.

During very severe weather, and when the top is frozen, it is a good plan, when you are about
to wheel some fresh manure on to the heap, to remove a portion of the frozen crust on top of
the heap, near the center, and make a hole for the fresh manure, which should be spread and
covered up.

When the heap is high enough, say five feet, we commence another heap alongside. In doing this,
our plan is to clean out some of the sheep-sheds or pig-pens, where the manure has accumulated
for some time. This gives us much more than the daily supply. Place this manure on the outside
of the new heap, and then take a quantity of hot, fermenting, manure from the middle of the
old heap, and throw it into the center of the new heap, and then cover it up with the fresh
manure. I would put in eight or ten bushels, or as much as will warm up the center of the new
heap, and start fermentation. The colder the weather, the more of this hot manure should you
take from the old heap--the more the better. Fresh manure should be added to the old heap to
fill up the hole made by the removal of the hot manure.

“You draw out a great many loads of manure during the winter,” said the Deacon, “and pile it
in the field, and I have always thought it a good plan, as you do the work when there is little
else to do, and when the ground is frozen.”

Yes, this is an improvement on my old plan. I formerly used to turn over the heap of manure
in the barn-yard in March, or as soon as fermentation had ceased.

The object of turning the heap is (1st,) to mix the manure and make it of uniform quality;
(2d,) to break the lumps and make the manure fine; and (3d,) to lighten up the manure and make
it loose, thus letting in the air and inducing a second fermentation. It is a good plan, and
well repays for the labor. In doing the work, build up the end and sides of the new heap straight,
and keep the top flat. Have an eye on the man doing the work, and see that he breaks up the
manure and mixes it thoroughly, and that he goes to the bottom of the heap.

My new plan that the Deacon alludes to, is, instead of turning the heap in the yard, to draw
the manure from the heap in the yard, and pile it up in another heap in the field where it
is to be used. This has all the effects of turning, and at the same time saves a good deal
of team-work in the spring.

The location of the manure-heap in the field deserves some consideration. If the manure is
to be used for root-crops or potatoes, and if the land is to be ridged, and the manure put
in the ridges, then it will be desirable to put the heap on the headland, or, better still,
to make two heaps, one on the headland top of the field, and the other on the headland at the
bottom of the field, as shown in the annexed engraving.

We draw the manure with a cart, the horse walking between two of the ridges (D), and the wheels
of the cart going in C and E. The manure is pulled out at the back end of the cart into small
heaps, about five paces apart.

“That is what I object to with you agricultural writers,” said the Doctor; “you say ‘about
five paces,’ and sometimes ‘about five paces’ would mean 4 yards, and sometimes 6 yards; and
if you put 10 tons of manure per acre in the one case, you would put 15 tons in the other--which
makes quite a difference in the dose.”

The Doctor is right. Let us figure a little. If your cart holds 20 bushels, and if the manure
weighs 75 lbs. to the bushel, and you wish to put on 10 tons of manure per acre, or 1,500 bushels,
or 13⅓ cart-loads, then, as there are 43,560 square feet in an acre, you want a bushel of manure
to 29 square feet, or say a space 2 yards long, by nearly 5 feet wide.

Now, as our ridges are 2½ feet apart, and as our usual plan is to manure 5 ridges at a time,
or 12½ feet wide, a load of 20 bushels of manure will go over a space 46½ feet long, nearly,
or say 15½ yards; and so, a load would make 3 heaps, 15½ feet apart, and there would be 6⅔
bushels in each heap.

If the manure is to be spread on the surface of the land, there is no necessity for placing
the heap on the headland. You can make the heap or heaps. --“Where most convenient,” broke
in the Deacon. --“No, not by any means,” I replied; “for if that was the rule, the men would
certainly put the heap just where it happened to be the least trouble for them to draw and
throw off the loads.”

The aim should be to put the heap just where it will require the least labor to draw the manure
on to the land in the spring.

On what we call “rolling,” or hilly land, I would put the heap on the highest land, so that
in the spring the horses would be going down hill with the full carts or wagons. Of course,
it would be very unwise to adopt this plan if the manure was not drawn from the yards until
spring, when the land was soft; but I am now speaking of drawing out the manure in the winter,
when there is sleighing, or when the ground is frozen. No farmer will object to a little extra
labor for the teams in the winter, if it will save work and time in the spring.

If the land is level, then the heap or heaps should be placed where the least distance will
have to be traveled in drawing the manure from the heap to the land. If there is only one heap,
the best point would be in the center of the field. If two heaps, and the field is longer than
it is broad, say 20 rods wide, and 40 rods long, then the heaps should be made as shown on
the previous page.

If the field is square, say 40 × 40 rods, and we can have four heaps of manure, then, other
things being equal, the best points for the heaps are shown in the annexed figure:

Having determined where to make the heaps, the next question is in regard to size. We make
one about 8 feet wide and 6 feet high, the length being determined by the quantity of the manure
we have to draw. In cold weather, it is well to finish the heap each day as far as you go,
so that the sloping side at the end of the heap will not be frozen during the night. Build
up the sides square, so that the top of the heap shall be as broad as the bottom. You will
have to see that this is done, for the average farm-man, if left to himself, will certainly
narrow up the heap like the roof of a house. The reason he does this is that he throws the
manure from the load into the center of the heap, and he can not build up the sides straight
and square without getting on to the heap occasionally, and placing a layer round the outsides.
He should be instructed, too, to break up the lumps, and mix the manure, working it over until
it is loose and fine. It there are any frozen masses of manure, place them on the east or south
outside, and not in the middle of the heap.

If there is any manure in the sheds, or basements, or cellars, or pig-pens, clean it out, and
draw it at once to the pile in the field, and mix it with the manure you are drawing from the
heap in the yard.

We generally draw with two teams and three wagons. We have one man to fill the wagon in the
yard, and two men to drive and unload. When the man comes back from the field, he places his
empty wagon by the side of the heap in the yard, and takes off the horses and puts them to
the loaded wagon, and drives to the heap in the field. If we have men and teams enough, we
draw with three teams and three wagons. In this case, we put a reliable man at the heap, who
helps the driver to unload, and sees that the heap is built properly. The driver helps the
man in the yard to load up. In the former plan, we have two teams and three men; in the latter
case, we have three teams and five men, and as we have two men loading and unloading, instead
of one, we ought to draw out double the quantity of manure in a day. If the weather is cold
and windy, we put the blankets on the horses under the harness, so that they will not be chilled
while standing at the heap in the yard or field. They will trot back lively with the empty
wagon or sleigh, and the work will proceed briskly, and the manure be less exposed to the cold.

“You do not,” said the Doctor, “draw the manure on to the heap with a cart, and dump it, as
I have seen it done in England?”

I did so a few years ago, and might do so again if I was piling manure in the spring, to be
kept over summer for use in the fall. The compression caused by drawing the cart over the manure,
has a tendency to exclude the air and thus retard fermentation. In the winter there is certainly
no necessity for resorting to any means for checking fermentation. In the spring or summer
it may be well to compress the heap a little, but not more, I think, than can be done by the
trampling of the workman in spreading the manure on the heap.

“You do not,” said the Doctor, “adopt the old-fashioned English plan of keeping your manure
in a basin in the barn-yard, and yet I should think it has some advantages.”

“I practised it here,” said I, “for some years. I plowed and scraped a large hole or basin
in the yard four or five feet deep, with a gradual slope at one end for convenience in drawing
out the loads--the other sides being much steeper. I also made a tank at the bottom to hold
the drainage, and had a pump in it to pump the liquid back on to the heap in dry weather. We
threw or wheeled the manure from the stables and pig-pens into this basin, but I did not like
the plan, for two reasons: (1,) the manure being spread over so large a surface froze during
winter, and (2,) during the spring there was so much water in the basin that it checked fermentation.”

Now, instead of spreading it all over the basin, we commenced a small heap on one of the sloping
sides of the basin; with a horse and cart we drew to this heap, just as winter set in, every
bit of manure that could be found on the premises, and everything that would make manure. When
got all together, it made a heap seven or eight feet wide, twenty feet long, and three or four
feet high. We then laid planks on the heap, and every day, as the pig-pens, cow and horse stables
were cleaned out, the manure was wheeled on to the heap and shaken out and spread about. The
heap soon commenced to ferment, and when the cold weather set in, although the sides and some
parts of the top froze a little, the inside kept quite warm. Little chimneys were formed in
the heap, where the heat and steam escaped. Other parts of the heap would be covered with a
thin crust of frozen manure. By taking a few forkfuls of the latter, and placing them on the
top of the “chimneys,” they checked the escape of steam, and had a tendency to distribute the
heat to other parts of the heap. In this way the fermentation became more general throughout
all the mass, and not so violent at any one spot.

“But why be at all this trouble?”--For several reasons. First. It saves labor in the end. Two
hours’ work, in winter, will save three hours’ work in the spring. And three hours’ work in
the spring is worth more than four hours’ work in the winter. So that we save half the expense
of handling the manure. 2d. When manure is allowed to lie scattered about over a large surface,
it is liable to have much of its value washed out by the rain. In a compact heap of this kind,
the rain or snow that falls on it is not more than the manure needs to keep it moist enough
for fermentation. 3d. There is as much fascination in this fermenting heap of manure as there
is in having money in a savings bank. One is continually trying to add to it. Many a cart-load
or wheel-barrowful of material will be deposited that would otherwise be allowed to run to
waste. 4th. The manure, if turned over in February or March, will be in capital order for applying
to root crops; or if your hay and straw contains weed-seeds, the manure will be in good condition
to spread as a top-dressing on grass-land early in the spring. This, I think, is better than
keeping it in the yards all summer, and then drawing it out on the grass land in September.
You gain six months’ or a year’s time. You get a splendid growth of rich grass, and the red-root
seeds will germinate next September just as well as if the manure was drawn out at that time.
If the manure is drawn out early in the spring, and spread out immediately, and then harrowed
two or three times with a Thomas’ smoothing-harrow, there is no danger of its imparting a rank
flavor to the grass. I know from repeated trials that when part of a pasture is top-dressed,
cows and sheep will keep it much more closely cropped down than the part which has not been
manured. The idea to the contrary originated from not spreading the manure evenly.

“But why ferment the manure at all? Why not draw it out fresh from the yards? Does fermentation
increase the amount of plant-food in the manure?”--No. But it renders the plant-food in the
manure more immediately available. It makes it more soluble. We ferment manure for the same
reason that we decompose bone-dust or mineral phosphates with sulphuric acid, and convert them
into superphosphate, or for the same reason that we grind our corn and cook the meal. These
processes add nothing to the amount of plant-food in the bones or the nutriment in the corn.
They only increase its availability. So in fermenting manure. When the liquid and solid excrements
from well-fed animals, with the straw necessary to absorb the liquid, are placed in a heap,
fermentation sets in and soon effects very important changes in the nature and composition
of the materials. The insoluble woody fibre of the straw is decomposed and converted into humic
and ulmic acids. These are insoluble; and when manure consists almost wholly of straw or corn
stalks, there would be little gained by fermenting it. But when there is a good proportion
of manure from well fed animals in the heap, carbonate of ammonia is formed from the nitrogenous
compounds in the manure, and this ammonia unites with the humic and ulmic acids and forms humate
and ulmate of ammonia. These ammoniacal salts are soluble in water--as the brown color of the
drainings of a manure heap sufficiently indicates.

Properly fermented manure, therefore, of good quality, is a much more active and immediately
useful fertilizer than fresh, unfermented manure. There need be no loss of ammonia from evaporation,
and the manure is far less bulky, and costs far less labor to draw out and spread. The only
loss that is likely to occur is from leaching, and this must be specially guarded against.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE MANAGEMENT OF MANURES.--Continued.

WHY DO WE FERMENT MANURE?

However much farmers may differ in regard to the advantages or disadvantages of fermenting
manure, I have never met with one who contended that it was good, either in theory or practice,
to leave manure for months, scattered over a barn-yard, exposed to the spring and autumn rains,
and to the summer’s sun and wind. All admit that, if it is necessary to leave manure in the
yards, it should be either thrown into a basin, or put into a pile or heap, where it will be
compact, and not much exposed.

We did not need the experiments of Dr. Vœlcker to convince us that there was great waste in
leaving manure exposed to the leaching action of our heavy rains. We did not know exactly how
much we lost, but we knew it must be considerable. No one advocates the practice of exposing
manure, and it is of no use to discuss the matter. All will admit that it is unwise and wasteful
to allow manure to lie scattered and exposed over the barn-yards any longer than is absolutely
necessary.

We should either draw it directly to the field and use it, or we should make it into a compact
heap, where it will not receive more rain than is needed to keep it moist.

One reason for piling manure, therefore, is to preserve it from loss, until we wish to use
it on the land.

“We all admit that,” said the Deacon, “but is there anything actually gained by fermenting
it in the heap?”--In one sense, no; but in another, and very important sense, yes. When we
cook corn-meal for our little pigs, we add nothing to it. We have no more meal after it is
cooked than before. There are no more starch, or oil, or nitrogenous matters in the meal, but
we think the pigs can digest the food more readily. And so, in fermenting manure, we add nothing
to it; there is no more actual nitrogen, or phosphoric acid, or potash, or any other ingredient
after fermentation than there was before, but these ingredients are rendered more soluble,
and can be more rapidly taken up by the plants. In this sense, therefore, there is a great gain.

One thing is certain, we do not, in many cases, get anything like as much benefit from our
manure as the ingredients it contains would lead us to expect.

Mr. Lawes, on his clayey soil at Rothamsted, England, has grown over thirty crops of wheat,
year after year, on the same land. One plot has received 14 tons of barn-yard manure per acre
every year, and yet the produce from this plot is no larger, and, in fact, is frequently much
less, than from a few hundred pounds of artificial manure containing far less nitrogen.

For nineteen years, 1852 to 1870, some of the plots have received the
same manure year after year. The following shows the average yield for
the nineteen years:
                                              Wheat       Straw
                                              per acre.   per acre.
  Plot 5.--Mixed mineral manure, alone         17 bus.      15 cwt.
    ”  6.--Mixed mineral manure, and 200
             lbs. ammoniacal salts             27 bus.      25 cwt.
    ”  7.--Mixed mineral manure, and 400
             lbs. ammoniacal salts             36 bus.      36 cwt.
    ”  9.--Mixed mineral manure, and 550
             lbs. nitrate of soda              37 bus.      41 cwt.
    ”  2.--14 tons farm-yard dung              36 bus.      34 cwt.

The 14 tons (31,360 lbs.) of farm-yard manure contained about 8,540 lbs. organic matter, 868
lbs. mineral matter, and 200 lbs. nitrogen. The 400 lbs. of ammoniacal salts, and the 550 lbs.
nitrate of soda, each contained 82 lbs. of nitrogen; and it will be seen that this 82 lbs.
of nitrogen produced as great an effect as the 200 lbs. of nitrogen in barn-yard manure.

Similar experiments have been made on barley, with even more striking results. The plot dressed
with 300 lbs. superphosphate of lime, and 200 lbs. ammoniacal salts per acre, produced as large
a crop as 14 tons of farm-yard manure. The average yield of barley for nineteen crops grown
on the same land each year was 48 bus. and 28 cwt. of straw per acre on both plots. In other
words, 41 lbs. of nitrogen, in ammoniacal salts, produced as great an effect as 200 lbs. of
nitrogen in farm-yard manure! During the nineteen years, one plot had received 162,260 lbs.
of organic matter, 16,492 lbs. of mineral matter, and 3,800 lbs. of nitrogen; while the other
had received only 5,700 lbs. mineral matter, and 779 lbs. of nitrogen--and yet one has produced
as large a crop as the other.

Why this difference? It will not do to say that more nitrogen was applied in the farm-yard
manure than was needed. Mr. Lawes says: “For some years, an amount of ammonia-salts, containing
82 lbs. of nitrogen, was applied to one series of plots (of barley), but this was found to
be too much, the crop generally being too heavy and laid. Yet probably about 200 lbs. of nitrogen
was annually supplied in the dung, but with it there was no over-luxuriance, and no more crop,
than where 41 lbs. of nitrogen was supplied in the form of ammonia or nitric acid.”

It would seem that there can be but one explanation of these accurately-ascertained facts.
The nitrogenous matter in the manure is not in an available condition. It is in the manure,
but the plants can not take it up until it is decomposed and rendered soluble. Dr. Vœlcker
analyzed “perfectly fresh horse-dung,” and found that of free ammonia there was not more than
one pound in 15 tons! And yet these 15 tons contained nitrogen enough to furnish 140 lbs. of
ammonia.

“But,” it may be asked, “will not this fresh manure decompose in the soil, and furnish ammonia?”
In light, sandy soil, I presume it will do so to a considerable extent. We know that clay mixed
with manure retards fermentation, but sand mixed with manure accelerates fermentation. This,
at any rate, is the case when sand is added in small quantities to a heap of fermenting manure.
But I do not suppose it would have the same effect when a small quantity of manure is mixed
with a large amount of sand, as is the case when manure is applied to land, and plowed under.
At any rate, practical farmers, with almost entire unanimity, think well-rotted manure is better
for sandy land than fresh manure.

As to how rapidly, or rather how slowly, manure decomposes in a rather heavy loamy soil, the
above experiments of Mr. Lawes afford very conclusive, but at the same time very discouraging
evidence. During the 19 years, 3,800 lbs. of nitrogen, and 16,492 lbs. of mineral matter, in
the form of farm-yard manure, were applied to an acre of land, and the 19 crops of barley in
grain and straw removed only 3,724 lbs. of mineral matter, and 1,064 lbs. of nitrogen. The
soil now contains, unless it has drained away, 1,736 lbs. more nitrogen per acre than it did
when the experiments commenced. And yet 41 lbs. of nitrogen in an available condition is sufficient
to produce a good large crop of barley, and 82 lbs. per acre furnished more than the plants
could organize.

“Those are very interesting experiments,” said the Doctor, “and show why it is that our farmers
can afford to pay a higher price for nitrogen and phosphoric acid in superphosphate, and other
artificial manures, than for the same amount of nitrogen and phosphoric acid in stable-manure.”

We will not discuss this point at present. What I want to ascertain is, whether we can not
find some method of making our farm-yard manure more readily available. Piling it up, and letting
it ferment, is one method of doing this, though I think other methods will yet be discovered.
Possibly it will be found that spreading well-rotted manure on the surface of the land will
be one of the most practical and simplest methods of accomplishing this object.

“We pile the manure, therefore,” said Charley, “first, because we do not wish it to lie exposed
to the rain in the yards, and, second, because fermenting it in the heap renders it more soluble,
and otherwise more available for the crops, when applied to the land.”

That is it exactly, and another reason for piling manure is, that the fermentation greatly
reduces its bulk, and we have less labor to perform in drawing it out and spreading it. Ellwanger
& Barry, who draw several thousand loads of stable-manure every year, and pile it up to ferment,
tell me that it takes three loads of fresh manure to make one load of rotted manure. This,
of course, has reference to bulk, and not weight. Three tons of fresh barn-yard manure, according
to the experiments of Dr. Vœlcker, will make about two tons when well rotted. Even this is
a great saving of labor, and the rotted manure can be more easily spread, and mixed more thoroughly
with the soil--a point of great importance.

“Another reason for fermenting manure,” said the Squire, “is the destruction of weed-seeds.”

“That is true,” said I, “and a very important reason; but I try not to think about this method
of killing weed-seeds. It is a great deal better to kill the weeds. There can be no doubt that
a fermenting manure-heap will kill many of the weed-seeds, but enough will usually escape to
re-seed the land.”

It is fortunate, however, that the best means to kill weed-seeds in the manure, are also the
best for rendering the manure most efficient. I was talking to John Johnston on this subject
a few days ago. He told me how he piled manure in his yards.

“I commence,” he said, “where the heap is intended to be, and throw the manure on one side,
until the bare ground is reached.”

“What is the use of that?” I asked.

“If you do not do so,” he replied, “there will be some portion of the manure under the heap
that will be so compact that it will not ferment, and the weed-seeds will not be killed.”

“You think,” said I, “that weed-seeds can be killed in this way?”

“I know they can,” he replied, “but the heap must be carefully made, so that it will ferment
evenly, and when the pile is turned, the bottom and sides should be thrown into the center
of the heap.”

LOSS OF AMMONIA BY FERMENTING MANURE.

If you throw a quantity of fresh horse-manure into a loose heap, fermentation proceeds with
great rapidity. Much heat is produced, and if the manure is under cover, or there is not rain
enough to keep the heap moist, the manure will “fire-fang” and a large proportion of the carbonate
of ammonia produced by the fermentation will escape into the atmosphere and be lost.

As I have said before, we use our horse-manure for bedding the store and fattening pigs. We
throw the manure every morning and evening, when the stable is cleaned out, into an empty stall
near the door of the stable, and there it remains until wanted to bed the pigs. We find it
is necessary to remove it frequently, especially in the summer, as fermentation soon sets in,
and the escape of the ammonia is detected by its well known pungent smell. Throw this manure
into the pig-cellar and let the pigs trample it down, and there is no longer any escape of
ammonia. At any rate, I have never perceived any. Litmus paper will detect ammonia in an atmosphere
containing only one seventy-five thousandth part of it; and, as Prof. S. W. Johnson once remarked,
“It is certain that a healthy nose is not far inferior in delicacy to litmus paper.” I feel
sure that no ammonia escapes from this horse-manure after it is trampled down by the pigs,
although it contains an additional quantity of “potential ammonia” from the liquid and solid
droppings of these animals.

Water has a strong attraction for ammonia. One gallon of ice-cold water will absorb 1,150 gallons
of ammonia.

If the manure, therefore, is moderately moist, the ammonia is not likely to escape. Furthermore,
as Dr. Vœlcker has shown us, during the fermentation of the manure in a heap, ulmic and humic,
crenic and apocrenic acids are produced, and these unite with the ammonia and “fix” it--in
other words, they change it from a volatile gas into a non-volatile salt.

If the heap of manure, therefore, is moist enough and large enough, all the evidence goes to
show, that there is little or no loss of ammonia. If the centre of the heap gets so hot and
so dry that the ammonia is not retained, there is still no necessity for loss.

The sides of the heap are cool and moist, and will retain the carbonate of ammonia, the acids
mentioned also coming into play.

The ammonia is much more likely to escape from the top of the heap than from the sides. The
heat and steam form little chimneys, and when a fermenting manure-heap is covered with snow,
these little chimneys are readily seen. If you think the manure is fermenting too rapidly,
and that the ammonia is escaping, trample the manure down firmly about the chimneys, thus closing
them up, and if need be, or if convenient, throw more manure on top, or throw on a few pailfuls
of water.

It is a good plan, too, where convenient, to cover the heap with soil. I sometimes do this
when piling manure in the field, not from fear of losing ammonia, but in order to retain moisture
in the heap. With proper precautions, I think we may safely dismiss the idea of any serious
loss of ammonia from fermenting manure.

THE WASTE OF MANURE FROM LEACHING.

As we have endeavored to show, there is little danger of losing ammonia by keeping and fermenting
manure. But this is not the only question to be considered. We have seen that in 10,000 lbs.
of fresh farm-yard manure, there is about 64 lbs. of nitrogen. Of this, about 15 lbs. are soluble,
and 49 lbs. insoluble. Of mineral matter, we have in this quantity of manure, 559 lbs., of
which 154 lbs. are soluble in water, and 405 lbs. insoluble. If we had a heap of five tons
of fermenting manure in a stable, the escape of half an ounce of carbonate of ammonia would
make a tremendous smell, and we should at once use means to check the escape of this precious
substance. But it will be seen that we have in this five tons of fresh manure, nitrogenous
matter, capable of forming over 180 lbs. of carbonate of ammonia, over 42 lbs. of which is
in a soluble condition. This may be leached day after day, slowly and imperceptibly, with no
heat, or smell, to attract attention.

How often do we see manure lying under the eaves of an unspouted shed or barn, where one of
our heavy showers will saturate it in a few minutes, and yet where it will lie for hours, and
days, and weeks, until it would seem that a large proportion of its soluble matter would be
washed out of it! The loss is unquestionably very great, and would be greater if it were not
for the coarse nature of the material, which allows the water to pass through it rapidly and
without coming in direct contact with only the outside portions of the particles of hay, straw,
etc., of which the manure is largely composed. If the manure was ground up very fine, as it
would be when prepared for analysis, the loss of soluble matter would be still more serious.
Or, if the manure was first fermented, so that the particles of matter would be more or less
decomposed and broken up fine, the rain would wash out a large amount of soluble matter, and
prove much more injurious than if the manure was fresh and unfermented.

“That is an argument,” said the Deacon, “against your plan of piling and fermenting manure.”

“Not at all,” I replied; “it is a strong reason for not letting manure lie under the eaves
of an unspouted building--especially good manure, that is made from rich food. The better the
manure, the more it will lose from bad management. I have never recommended any one to pile
their manure where it would receive from ten to twenty times as much water as would fall on
the surface of the heap.”

“But you do recommend piling manure and fermenting it in the open air and keeping the top flat,
so that it will catch all the rain, and I think your heaps must sometimes get pretty well soaked.”

“Soaking the heap of manure,” I replied, “does not wash out any of its soluble matter, provided
you carry the matter no further than the point of saturation. The water may, and doubtless
does, wash out the soluble matter from some portions of the manure, but if the water does not
filter through the heap, but is all absorbed by the manure, there is no loss. It is when the
water passes through the heap that it runs away with our soluble nitrogenous and mineral matter,
and with any ready formed ammonia it may find in the manure.”

How to keep cows tied up in the barn, and at the same time save all the urine, is one of the
most difficult problems I have to deal with in the management of manure on my farm. The best
plan I have yet tried is, to throw horse-manure, or sheep-manure, back of the cows, where it
will receive and absorb the urine. The plan works well, but it is a question of labor, and
the answer will depend on the arrangement of the buildings. If the horses are kept near the
cows, it will be little trouble to throw the horse-litter, every day, under or back of the cows.

In my own case, my cows are kept in a basement, with a tight barn-floor overhead. When this
barn-floor is occupied with sheep, we keep them well-bedded with straw, and it is an easy matter
to throw this soiled bedding down to the cow-stable below, where it is used to absorb the urine
of the cows, and is then wheeled out to the manure-heap in the yard.

At other times, we use dry earth as an absorbent.

CHAPTER XXII.

MANURE ON DAIRY-FARMS.

Farms devoted principally to dairying ought to be richer and more productive than farms largely
devoted to the production of grain.

Nearly all the produce of the farm is used to feed the cows, and little is sold but milk, or
cheese, or butter.

When butter alone is sold, there ought to be no loss of fertilizing matter--as pure butter
or oil contains no nitrogen, phosphoric acid, or potash. It contains nothing but carbonaceous
matter, which can be removed from the farm without detriment.

And even in the case of milk, or cheese, the advantage is all on the side of the dairyman,
as compared with the grain-grower. A dollar’s worth of milk or cheese removes far less nitrogen,
phosphoric acid, and potash, than a dollar’s worth of wheat or other grain. Five hundred lbs.
of cheese contains about 25 lbs. of nitrogen, and 20 lbs. of mineral matter. A cow that would
make this amount of cheese would eat not less than six tons of hay, or its equivalent in grass
or grain, in a year. And this amount of food, supposing it to be half clover and half ordinary
meadow-hay, would contain 240 lbs. of nitrogen and 810 lbs. of mineral matter. In other words,
a cow eats 240 lbs. of nitrogen, and 25 lbs. are removed in the cheese, or not quite 10½ per
cent, and of mineral matter not quite 2½ per cent is removed. If it takes three acres to produce
this amount of food, there will be 8⅓ lbs. of nitrogen removed by the cheese, per acre, while
30 bushels of wheat would remove in the grain 32 lbs. of nitrogen, and 10 to 15 lbs. in the
straw. So that a crop of wheat removes from five to six times as much nitrogen per acre as
a crop of cheese; and the removal of mineral matter in cheese is quite insignificant as compared
with the amount removed in a crop of wheat or corn. If our grain-growing farmers can keep up
the fertility of their land, as they undoubtedly can, the dairymen ought to be making theirs
richer and more productive every year.

“All that is quite true,” said the Doctor, “and yet from what I have seen and heard, the farms
in the dairy districts, do not, as a rule, show any rapid improvement. In fact, we hear it
often alleged that the soil is becoming exhausted of phosphates, and that the quantity and
quality of the grass is deteriorating.”

“There may be some truth in this,” said I, “and yet I will hazard the prediction that in no
other branch of agriculture shall we witness a more decided improvement during the next twenty-five
years than on farms largely devoted to the dairy. Grain-growing farmers, like our friend the
Deacon, here, who sells his grain and never brings home a load of manure, and rarely buys even
a ton of bran to feed to stock, and who sells more or less hay, must certainly be impoverishing
their soils of phosphates much more rapidly than the dairyman who consumes nearly all his produce
on the farm, and sells little except milk, butter, cheese, young calves, and old cows.”

“Bones had a wonderful effect,” said the Doctor, “on the old pastures in the dairy district
of Cheshire in England.”

“Undoubtedly,” I replied, “and so they will here, and so would well-rotted manure. There is
nothing in this fact to prove that dairying specially robs the soil of phosphates. It is not
phosphates that the dairyman needs so much as richer manure.”

“What would you add to the manure to make it richer?” asked the Doctor.

“Nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash,” I replied.

“But how?” asked the Deacon.

“I suppose,” said the Doctor, “by buying guano and the German potash salts.”

“That would be a good plan,” said I; “but I would do it by buying bran, mill-feed, brewer’s-grains,
malt-combs, corn-meal, oil-cake, or whatever was best and cheapest in proportion to value.
Bran or mill-feed can often be bought at a price at which it will pay to use it freely for
manure. A few tons of bran worked into a pile of cow-dung would warm it up and add considerably
to its value. It would supply the nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, in which ordinary
manure is deficient. In short, it would convert poor manure into rich manure.”

“Well, well,” exclaimed the Deacon, “I knew you talked of mixing dried-blood and bone-dust
with your manure, but I did not think you would advocate anything quite so extravagant as taking
good, wholesome bran and spout-feed and throwing it on to your manure-pile.”

“Why, Deacon,” said I, “we do it every day. I am putting about a ton of spout-feed, malt-combs
and corn-meal each week into my manure-pile, and that is the reason why it ferments so readily
even in the winter. It converts my poor manure into good, rich, well-decomposed dung, one load
of which is worth three loads of your long, strawy manure.”

“Do you not wet it and let it ferment before putting it in the pile?”

“No, Deacon,” said I, “I feed the bran, malt-combs and corn-meal to the cows, pigs, and sheep,
and let them do the mixing. They work it up fine, moisten it, break up the particles, take
out the carbonaceous matter, which we do not need for manure, and the cows and sheep and horses
mix it up thoroughly with the hay, straw, and corn-stalks, leaving the whole in just the right
condition to put into a pile to ferment or to apply directly to the land.”

“Oh! I see,” said the Deacon, “I did not think you used bran for manure.”

“Yes, I do, Deacon,” said I, “but I use it for food first, and this is precisely what I would
urge you and all others to do. I feel sure that our dairymen can well afford to buy more mill-feed,
corn-meal, oil-cake, etc., and mix it with their cow-dung--or rather, let the cows do the mixing.”

LETTER FROM THE HON. HARRIS LEWIS.

I wrote to the Hon. Harris Lewis, the well-known dairyman of Herkimer Co., N.Y., asking him
some questions in regard to making and managing manure on dairy farms. The questions will be
understood from the answers. He writes as follows:

“My Friend Harris.--This being the first leisure time I have had since the receipt of your
last letter, I devote it to answering your questions:

“1st. I have no manure cellar.

“I bed my cows with dry basswood sawdust, saving all the liquid manure, keeping the cows clean,
and the stable odors down to a tolerable degree. This bedding breaks up the tenacity of the
cow-manure, rendering it as easy to pulverize and manage as clear horse-manure. I would say
it is just lovely to bed cows with dry basswood sawdust. This manure, if left in a large pile,
will ferment and burn like horse-manure in about 10 days. Hence I draw it out as made where
I desire to use it, leaving it in small heaps, convenient to spread.

“My pigs and calves are bedded with straw, and this is piled and rotted before using.

“I use most of my manure on grass land, and mangels, some on corn and potatoes; but it pays
me best, when in proper condition, to apply all I do not need for mangels, on meadow and pasture.

“Forty loads, or about 18 to 20 cords is a homœopathic dose for an acre, and this quantity,
or more, applied once in three years to grass land, agrees with it first rate.

“The land where I grow mangels gets about this dose every year.

“I would say that my up-land meadows have been mown twice each year for a great many years.

“I have been using refuse salt from Syracuse, on my mangels, at the rate of about six bushels
per acre, applied broadcast in two applications. My hen-manure is pulverized, and sifted through
a common coal sieve. The fine I use for dusting the mangels after they have been singled out,
and the lumps, if any, are used to warm up the red peppers.

“I have sometimes mixed my hen-manure with dry muck, in the proportion of one bushel of hen-manure
to 10 of muck, and received a profit from it too big to tell of, on corn, and on mangels.

“I have sprinkled the refuse salt on my cow-stable floors sometimes, but where all the liquid
is saved, I think we have salt enough for most crops.

“I have abandoned the use of plaster on my pastures for the reason that milk produced on green-clover
is not so good as that produced on the grasses proper. I use all the wood ashes I can get,
on my mangels as a duster, and consider their value greater than the burners do who sell them
to me for 15 cts. a bushel. I have never used much lime, and have not received the expected
benefits from its use so far. But wood ashes agree with my land as well as manure does. The
last question you ask, but one, is this: ‘What is the usual plan of managing manure in the
dairy districts?’ The usual method is to cut holes in the sides of the stable, about every
ten feet along the whole length of the barn behind the cows, and pitch the manure out through
these holes, under the eaves of the barn, where it remains until too much in the way, when
it is drawn out and commonly applied to grass land in lumps as big as your head. This practice
is getting out of fashion a little now, but nearly one-half of all the cow-manure made in Herkimer
Co. is lost, wasted.

“Your last question, ‘What improvement would you suggest,’ I answer by saying it is of no use
to make any to these men, it would be wasted like their manure.

“The market value of manure in this county is 50 cts. per big load, or about one dollar per cord.”

“That is a capital letter,” said the Deacon. “It is right to the point, and no nonsense about it.”

“He must make a good deal of manure,” said the Doctor, “to be able to use 40 loads to the acre
on his meadows and pastures once in three years, and the same quantity every year on his field
of mangel-wurzel.”

“That is precisely what I have been contending for,” I replied; “the dairymen can make large
quantities of manure if they make an effort to do it, and their farms ought to be constantly
improving. Two crops of hay on the same meadow, each year, will enable a farmer to keep a large
herd of cows, and make a great quantity of manure--and when you have once got the manure, there
is no difficulty in keeping up and increasing the productiveness of the land.”

HOW TO MAKE MORE AND BETTER MANURE ON DAIRY FARMS.

“You are right,” said the Doctor, “in saying that there is no difficulty in keeping up and
increasing the productiveness of our dairy farms, when you have once got plenty of manure--but
the difficulty is to get a good supply of manure to start with.”

This is true, and it is comparatively slow work to bring up a farm, unless you have plenty
of capital and can buy all the artificial manure you want. By the free use of artificial manures,
you could make a farm very productive in one or two years. But the slower and cheaper method
will be the one adopted by most of our young and intelligent dairymen. Few of us are born with
silver spoons in our mouths. We have to earn our money before we can spend it, and we are none
the worse for the discipline.

Suppose a young man has a farm of 100 acres, devoted principally to dairying. Some of the land
lies on a creek or river, while other portions are higher and drier. In the spring of the year,
a stream of water runs through a part of the farm from the adjoining hills down to the creek
or river. The farm now supports ten head of cows, three horses, half a dozen sheep, and a few
pigs. The land is worth $75 per acre, but does not pay the interest on half that sum. It is
getting worse instead of better. Weeds are multiplying, and the more valuable grasses are dying
out. What is to be done?

In the first place, let it be distinctly understood that the land is not exhausted. As I have
before said, the productiveness of a farm does not depend so much on the absolute amount of
plant-food which the soil contains, as on the amount of plant-food which is immediately available
for the use of the plants. An acre of land that produces half a ton of hay, may contain as
much plant-food as an acre that produces three tons of hay. In the one case the plant-food
is locked up in such a form that the crops cannot absorb it, while in the other it is in an
available condition. I have no doubt there are fields on the farm I am alluding to, that contain
3,000 lbs. of nitrogen, and an equal amount of phosphoric acid, per acre, in the first six
inches of the surface soil. This is as much nitrogen as is contained in 100 tons of meadow-hay,
and more phosphoric acid than is contained in 350 tons of meadow-hay. These are the two ingredients
on which the fertility of our farms mainly depend. And yet there are soils containing this
quantity of plant-food that do not produce more than half a ton of hay per acre.

In some fields, or parts of fields, the land is wet and the plants cannot take up the food,
even while an abundance of it is within reach. The remedy in this case is under-draining. On
other fields, the plant-food is locked up in insoluble combinations. In this case we must plow
up the soil, pulverize it, and expose it to the oxygen of the atmosphere. We must treat the
soil as my mother used to tell me to treat my coffee, when I complained that it was not sweet
enough. “I put plenty of sugar in,” she said, “and if you will stir it up, the coffee will
be sweeter.” The sugar lay undissolved at the bottom of the cup; and so it is with many of
our soils. There is plenty of plant-food in them, but it needs stirring up. They contain, it
may be, 3,000 lbs. of nitrogen, and other plant-food in still greater proportion, and we are
only getting a crop that contains 18 lbs. of nitrogen a year, and of this probably the rain
supplies 9 lbs. Let us stir up the soil and see if we cannot set 100 lbs. of this 3,000 lbs.
of nitrogen free, and get three tons of hay per acre instead of half a ton. There are men who
own a large amount of valuable property in vacant city lots, who do not get enough from them
to pay their taxes. If they would sell half of them, and put buildings on the other half, they
might soon have a handsome income. And so it is with many farmers. They have the elements of
100 tons of hay lying dormant in every acre of their land, while they are content to receive
half a ton a year. They have property enough, but it is unproductive, while they pay high taxes
for the privilege of holding it, and high wages for the pleasure of boarding two or three hired
men.

We have, say, 3,000 lbs. of nitrogen locked up in each acre of our soil, and we get 8 or 10
lbs. every year in rain and dew, and yet, practically, all that we want, to make our farms
highly productive, is 100 lbs. of nitrogen per acre per annum. And furthermore, it should be
remembered, that to keep our farms rich, after we have once got them rich, it is not necessary
to develope this amount of nitrogen from the soil every year. In the case of clover-hay, the
entire loss of nitrogen in the animal and in the milk would not exceed 15 per cent, so that,
when we feed out 100 lbs. of nitrogen, we have 85 lbs. left in the manure. We want to develope
100 lbs. of nitrogen in the soil, to enable us to raise a good crop to start with, and when
this is once done, an annual development of 15 lbs. per acre in addition to the manure, would
keep up the productiveness of the soil. Is it not worth while, therefore, to make an earnest
effort to get started?--to get 100 lbs. of nitrogen in the most available condition in the soil?

As I said before, this is practically all that is needed to give us large crops. This amount
of nitrogen represents about twelve tons of average barn-yard manure--that is to say, twelve
tons contains 100 lbs. of nitrogen. But in point of fact it is not in an immediately available
condition. It would probably take at least two years before all the nitrogen it contains would
be given up to the plants. We want, therefore, in order to give us a good start, 24 tons of
barn-yard manure on every acre of land. How to get this is the great problem which our young
dairy farmer has to solve. In the grain-growing districts we get it in part by summer-fallowing,
and I believe the dairyman might often do the same thing with advantage. A thorough summer-fallow
would not only clean the land, but would render some of the latent plant-food available. This
will be organized in the next crop, and when the dairyman has once got the plant-food, he has
decidedly the advantage over the grain-growing farmer in his ability to retain it. He need
not lose over 16 per cent a year of nitrogen, and not one per cent of the other elements of
plant-food.

The land lying on the borders of the creek could be greatly benefited by cutting surface ditches
to let off the water; and later, probably it will be found that a few underdrains can be put
in to advantage. These alluvial soils on the borders of creeks and rivers are grand sources
of nitrogen and other plant-food. I do not know the fact, but it is quite probable that the
meadows which Harris Lewis mows twice a year, are on the banks of the river, and are perhaps
flooded in the spring. But, be this as it may, there is a field on the farm I am alluding to,
lying on the creek, which now produces a bountiful growth of weeds, rushes, and coarse grasses,
which I am sure could easily be made to produce great crops of hay. The creek overflows in
the spring, and the water lies on some of the lower parts of the field until it is evaporated.
A few ditches would allow all the water to pass off, and this alone would be a great improvement.
If the field was flooded in May or June, and thoroughly cultivated and harrowed, the sod would
be sufficiently rotted to plow again in August. Then a thorough harrowing, rolling, and cultivating,
would make it as mellow as a garden, and it could be seeded down with timothy and other good
grasses the last of August, or beginning of September, and produce a good crop of hay the next
year. Or, if thought better, it might be sown to rye and seeded down with it. In either case
the land would be greatly improved, and would be a productive meadow or pasture for years to
come--or until our young dairyman could afford to give it one of Harris Lewis’ “homœopathic”
doses of 40 loads of good manure per acre. He would then be able to cut two crops of hay a
year--and such hay! But we are anticipating.

That stream which runs through the farm in the spring, and then dries up, could be made to
irrigate several acres of the land adjoining. This would double, or treble, or quadruple, (“hold
on,” said the Deacon,) the crops of grass as far as the water reached. The Deacon does not
seem to credit this statement; but I have seen wonderful effects produced by such a plan.

What I am endeavoring to show, is, that these and similar means will give us larger crops of
hay and grass, and these in turn will enable us to keep more cows, and make more manure, and
the manure will enable us to grow larger crops on other portions of the farm.

I am aware that many will object to plowing up old grass land, and I do not wish to be misunderstood
on this point. If a farmer has a meadow that will produce two or three tons of hay, or support
a cow, to the acre, it would be folly to break it up. It is already doing all, or nearly all,
that can be asked or desired. But suppose you have a piece of naturally good land that does
not produce a ton of hay per acre, or pasture a cow on three acres, if such land can be plowed
without great difficulty, I would break it up as early in the fall as possible, and summer-fallow
it thoroughly, and seed it down again, heavily, with grass seeds the next August. If the land
does not need draining, it will not forget this treatment for many years, and it will be the
farmer’s own fault if it ever runs down again.

In this country, where wages are so high, we must raise large crops per acre, or not raise
any. Where land is cheap, it may sometimes pay to compel a cow to travel over three or four
acres to get her food, but we cannot afford to raise our hay in half ton crops; it costs too
much to harvest them. High wages, high taxes, and high-priced land, necessitate high farming;
and by high farming, I mean growing large crops every year, and on every portion of the farm;
but high wages and low-priced land do not necessarily demand high farming. If the land is cheap
we can suffer it to lie idle without much loss. But when we raise crops, whether on high-priced
land or on low-priced land, we must raise good crops, or the expense of cultivating and harvesting
them will eat up all the profits. In the dairy districts, I believe land, in proportion to
its quality and nearness to market, commands a higher price than land in the grain-growing
districts. Hence it follows that high farming should be the aim of the American dairyman.

I am told that there are farms in the dairy districts of this State worth from one hundred
to one hundred and fifty dollars per acre, on which a cow to four acres for the year is considered
a good average. At a meeting of the Little Falls Farmers’ Club, the Hon. Josiah Shull, gave
a statement of the receipts and expenses of his farm of 81½ acres. The farm cost $130 per acre.
He kept twenty cows, and fatted one for beef. The receipts were as follows:

  Twenty cows yielding 8,337 lbs. of cheese,
    at about 14¼ cents per pound                        $1,186.33
  Increase on beef cow                                      40.00
  Calves                                                    45.00
                                                        ---------
  Total receipts                                        $1,271.33
                      Expenses.
  Boy, six months and board                               $180.00
  Man by the year, and board                               360.00
  Carting milk and manufacturing cheese                    215.00
                                                          -------
  Total cost of labor                                     $755.00
                      The Other Expenses Were:
  Fertilizers, plants, etc.                               $ 18.00
  Horse-shoeing and other repairs of farming
    implements, (which is certainly pretty cheap,)          50.00
  Wear and tear of implements                               65.00
  Average repairs of place and buildings                   175.00
  Average depreciation and interest on stock               180.00
  Insurance                                                  4.00
  Incidentals, (also pretty low,)                           50.00
                                                          -------
                                                          $620.00
             Total receipts                   $1,271.33.
             Total expenses                    1,375.00.

This statement, it is said, the Club considered a very fair estimate.

Now, here is a farm costing $10,595, the receipts from which, saying nothing about interest,
are less than the expenses. And if you add two cents per pound more to the price of the cheese,
the profit would still be only about $50 per year. The trouble is not so much in the low price
of cheese, as in the low product per acre. I know some grain-growing farmers who have done
no better than this for a few years past.

Mr. Shull places the annual depreciation and interest on stock at $180, equal to nearly one-seventh
of the total receipts of the farm. It would pay the wages and board of another man for six
months. Can not it be avoided? Good beef is relatively much higher in this State than good
cheese. Some of the dairy authorities tell us that cheese is the cheapest animal food in the
world, while beef is the dearest. Why, then, should our dairymen confine their attention to
the production of the cheapest of farm products, and neglect almost entirely the production
of the dearest? If beef is high and cheese low, why not raise more beef? On low-priced land
it may be profitable to raise and keep cows solely for the production of cheese, and when the
cows are no longer profitable for this purpose, to sacrifice them--to throw them aside as we
do a worn-out machine. And in similar circumstances we may be able to keep sheep solely for
their wool, but on high-priced land we can not afford to keep sheep merely for their wool.
We must adopt a higher system of farming and feeding, and keep sheep that will give us wool,
lambs, and mutton. In parts of South America, where land costs nothing, cattle can be kept
for their bones, tallow, and hides, but where food is costly we must make better use of it.
A cow is a machine for converting vegetable food into veal, butter, cheese, and beef. The first
cost of the machine, if a good one, is considerable--say $100. This machine has to be kept
running night and day, summer and winter, week days and Sundays. If we were running a steam-flouring
mill that could never be allowed to stop, we should be careful to lay in a good supply of coal
and also have plenty of grain on hand to grind, so that the mill would never have to run empty.
No sensible man would keep up steam merely to run the mill. He would want to grind all the
time, and as much as possible; and yet coal is a much cheaper source of power than the hay
and corn with which we run our milk-producing machine. How often is the latter allowed to run
empty? The machine is running night and day--must run, but is it always running to advantage?
Do we furnish fuel enough to enable it to do full work, or only little more than enough to
run the machinery?

“What has all this to do with making manure on dairy farms?” asked the Deacon; “you are wandering
from the point.”

“I hope not; I am trying to show that good feeding will pay better than poor feeding--and better
food means better manure.”

I estimate that it takes from 15 to 18 lbs. of ordinary hay per day to run this cow-machine,
which we have been talking about, even when kept warm and comfortable; and if exposed to cold
storms, probably not less than 20 lbs. of hay a day, or its equivalent, and this merely to
keep the machine running, without doing any work. It requires this to keep the cow alive, and
to prevent her losing flesh. If not supplied with the requisite amount of food for this purpose,
she will take enough fat and flesh from her own body to make up the deficiency; and if she
cannot get it, the machine will stop--in other words, the cow will die.

We have, then, a machine that costs say $100; that will last on an average eight years; that
requires careful management; that must have constant watching, or it will be liable to get
out of order, and that requires, merely to keep it running, say 20 lbs. of hay per day. Now,
what do we get in return? If we furnish only 20 lbs. of hay per day we get--nothing except
manure. If we furnish 25 lbs. of hay per day, or its equivalent, we get, say half a pound of
cheese per day. If we furnish 30 lbs. we get one pound of cheese per day, or 365 lbs. a year.
We may not get the one pound of cheese every day in the year; sometimes the cow, instead of
giving milk, is furnishing food for her embryo calf, or storing up fat and flesh; and this
fat and flesh will be used by and by to produce milk. But it all comes from the food eaten
by the cow; and is equal to one pound of cheese per day for 30 lbs. of hay or its equivalent
consumed; 20 lbs. of hay gives us nothing; 25 lbs. of hay gives us half a pound of cheese,
or 40 lbs. of cheese from one ton of hay; 30 lbs. gives us one pound, or 66⅔ lbs. of cheese
from one ton of hay; 35 lbs. gives us 1½ lbs., or 85 5/7 lbs. of cheese to one ton of hay;
40 lbs. gives us 2 lbs. of cheese, or 100 lbs. of cheese from one ton of hay; 45 lbs. gives
us 2⅓ lbs. of cheese, or 111 lbs. of cheese from one ton of hay; 50 lbs. gives us 3 lbs. of
cheese, or 120 lbs. of cheese from one ton of hay.

On this basis, one ton of hay, in excess of the amount required to keep up the animal heat
and sustain the vital functions, gives us 200 lbs. of cheese. The point I wish to illustrate
by these figures, which are of course hypothetical, is, that it is exceedingly desirable to
get animals that will eat, digest, and assimilate a large amount of food, over and above that
required to keep up the heat of the body and sustain the vital functions. When a cow eats only
25 lbs. of hay a day, it requires one ton of hay to produce 40 lbs. of cheese. But if we could
induce her to eat, digest, and assimilate 50 lbs. a day, one ton would produce 120 lbs. of
cheese. If a cow eats 33 lbs. of hay per day, or its equivalent in grass, it will require four
acres of land, with a productive capacity equal to 1½ tons of hay per acre, to keep her a year.
Such a cow, according to the figures given above, will produce 401½ lbs. of cheese a year,
or its equivalent in growth. A farm of 80 acres, on this basis, would support 20 cows, yielding,
say 8,000 lbs. of cheese. Increase the productive power of the farm one half, (I hope the Deacon
has not gone to sleep), and keep 20 cows that will eat half as much again food, and we should
then get 21,600 lbs. of cheese. If cheese is worth 15 cents per lb., a farm of 80 acres, producing
1½ tons of hay, or its equivalent, per acre, and supporting 20 cows, would give us a gross
return of $1,204.50. The same farm so improved as to produce 2¼ tons of hay or its equivalent,
per acre--fed to 20 cows capable of eating, digesting, and assimilating it--would give a gross
return of $3,240.

In presenting these figures, I hope you will not think me a visionary. I do not think it is
possible to get a cow to produce 3 lbs. of cheese a day throughout the whole year. But I do
think it quite possible to so breed and feed a cow that she will produce 3 lbs. of cheese per
day, or its equivalent in veal, flesh, or fat. We frequently have cows that produce 3 lbs.
of cheese a day for several weeks; and a cow can be so fed that she will produce 3 lbs. of
cheese a day without losing weight. And if she can extract this amount of matter out of the
food for a part of the year, why can not she do so for the whole year? Are the powers of digestion
weaker in the fall and winter than in spring and summer? If not, we unquestionably sustain
great loss by allowing this digestive power to run to waste. This digestive power costs us
20 lbs. of hay a day. We can ill afford to let it lie dormant. But the Deacon will tell me
that the cows are allowed all the food they will eat, winter and summer. Then we must, if they
have digestive power to spare, endeavor to persuade them to eat more. If they eat as much hay
or grass as their stomachs are capable of holding, we must endeavor to give them richer hay
or grass. Not one farmer in a thousand seems to appreciate the advantage of having hay or grass
containing a high percentage of nutriment. I have endeavored to show that a cow eating six
tons of hay, or its equivalent, in a year, would produce 400 lbs. of cheese, worth $60. While
a cow capable of eating, digesting, and turning to good account, nine tons of hay, or its equivalent,
would produce 1,090 lbs. of cheese, or its equivalent in other products, worth $162.

“I am sorry to interrupt the gentleman,” said the Deacon with mock gravity.

“Then pray don’t,” said I; “I will not detain you long, and the subject is one which ought
to interest you and every other farmer who keeps his cows on poor grass in summer, and corn-stalks
and straw in winter.”

I was going to say, when the Deacon interrupted me, that the stomach of a cow may not allow
her to eat nine tons of hay a year, but it will allow her to eat six tons; and if these six
tons contain as much nutriment as the nine tons, what is the real difference in its value?
Ordinarily we should probably estimate the one at $10 per ton, and the other at $15. But according
to the above figures, one is worth $10 per ton and the other $27. To get rich grass, therefore,
should be the aim of the American dairyman. I hope the Deacon begins to see what connection
this has with a large pile of rich manure.

I do not mean merely a heavy growth of grass, but grass containing a high percentage of nutriment.
Our long winters and heavy snows are a great advantage to us in this respect. Our grass in
the spring, after its long rest, ought to start up like asparagus, and, under the organizing
influence of our clear skies, and powerful sun, ought to be exceedingly nutritious. Comparatively
few farmers, however, live up to their privileges in this respect. Our climate is better than
our farming, the sun richer than our neglected soil. England may be able to produce more grass
per acre in a year than we can, but we ought to produce richer grass, and, consequently, more
cheese to a cow. And I believe, in fact, that such is often the case. The English dairyman
has the advantage of a longer season of growth. We have a shorter season but a brighter sun,
and if we do not have richer grass it is due to the want of draining, clean culture, and manuring.
The object of American dairymen should be, not only to obtain more grass per acre, but to increase
its nutriment in a given bulk. If we could increase it one-half, making six tons equal to nine
tons, we have shown that it is nearly three times as valuable. Whether this can be done, I
have not now time to consider; but at any rate if your land produces as many weeds as do some
fields on my farm, not to say the Deacon’s, and if the plant-food that these weeds absorb,
could be organized by nutritious grasses, this alone would do a good deal towards accomplishing
the object. Whether this can be done or not, we want cows that can eat and turn to good account
as much food per annum as is contained in nine tons of ordinary meadow-hay; and we want this
nutriment in a bulk not exceeding six tons of hay. If possible, we should get this amount of
nutriment in grass or hay. But if we can not do this, we must feed enough concentrated food
to bring it up to the desired standard.

“But will it pay?” asked the Deacon; “I have not much faith in buying feed. A farmer ought
to raise everything he feeds out.”

“As a rule, this may be true,” I replied, “but there are many exceptions. I am trying to show
that it will often pay a dairyman well to buy feed rich in nitrogen and phosphates, so as to
make rich manure, and give him a start. After he gets his land rich, there is little difficulty
in keeping up its productiveness.

And I am delighted to know that many farmers in the dairy districts are purchasing more and
more bran and meal every year. Taking milk, and beef, and manure all into the account, I feel
sure that it will be found highly profitable; but you must have good cows--cows that can turn
their extra food to good account.

This is not the place to discuss the merits of the different breeds of cows. All I wish to
show is, that to make better manure, we must use richer food; and to feed this to advantage,
we must have animals that can turn a large amount of food, over and above the amount required
to sustain the vital functions, into milk, flesh, etc.

“You do not think,” said the Deacon, “that a well-bred cow makes any richer manure than a common
cow?”

Of course not; but to make rich manure, we must feed well; and we can not afford to feed well
unless we have good animals.

HOW TO SAVE AND APPLY MANURE ON A DAIRY-FARM.

We can not go into details on this subject. The truth is, there are several good methods of
saving manure, and which is best depends entirely on circumstances. The real point is to save
the urine, and keep the cow-stable clean and sweet. There are three prominent methods adopted:

1st. To throw all the liquid and solid excrements into a manure-cellar underneath the cow-stable.
In this cellar, dry swamp-muck, dry earth, or other absorbent material, is mixed with the manure
in sufficient quantity to keep down offensive odors. A little dry earth or muck is also used
in the stable, scattering it twice a day in the gutters and under the hind legs of the cows.
Where this is carried out, it has many and decided advantages.

2d. To wheel or throw out the solid parts of the manure, and to have a drain for carrying the
liquid into a tank, where it can be pumped on to the heap of manure in the yard. Where many
horses or sheep are kept, and only a few cows, this plan can often be used to advantage, as
the heap of manure in the yard, consisting of horse-manure, sheep-manure, and a small portion
of cow-dung, will be able to absorb all the urine of the cows.

3d. To use sufficient bedding to absorb all the urine in the stable. In my own case, as I have
said before, we usually chaff all our straw and stalks. The orts are used for bedding, and
we also use a little dry earth--or, to be more exact, I use it when I attend to the matter
myself, but have always found more or less trouble in getting the work done properly, unless
I give it personal attention. To use “dirt” to keep the stable clean, is not a popular plan
in this neighborhood. Where there is an abundance of straw, and especially if cut into chaff,
the easiest way to keep the stable clean, and the cows comfortable, is to use enough of this
chaffed straw to absorb all the liquid. Clean out the stable twice a day, and wheel the manure
directly to the heap, and spread it.

In regard to the application of manure on a dairy-farm, we have seen what Harris Lewis does
with his. I also wrote to T. L. Harison, Esq., of St. Lawrence Co., N.Y.; and knowing that
he is not only a very intelligent farmer and breeder, but also one of our best agricultural
writers, I asked him if he had written anything on the subject of manures.

“St. Lawrence Co.,” said the Deacon, “produces capital grass, oats, and barley, but is, I should
think, too far north for winter wheat; but what did Mr Harison say?”--Here is his letter:

“I never wrote anything about manure. Catch me at it! Nor do I know anything about the management
of barn-yard manure worth telling. My own practice is dictated quite as much by convenience
as by considerations of economy.”

“Good,” said the Deacon; “he writes like a sensible man.”

“My rotation,” he continues, “is such that the bulk of the manure made is applied to one crop;
that is, to my hoed crops, corn, potatoes, and roots, in the second year.

“The manure from the stables is thrown or wheeled out under the sheds adjoining, and as fast
as it becomes so large a quantity as to be in the way, or whenever there is an opportunity,
it is hauled out to the field, where it is to be used, and put in large piles. It is turned
once, if possible, in the spring, and then spread.

“The quantity applied, is, as near as may be, 25 loads per acre; but as we use a great deal
of straw, we haul out 30 loads, and estimate that in the spring it will be about 25 loads.

“If we have any more (and occasionally we have 100 loads over), we pile it near the barn, and
turn it once or twice during the summer, and use it as seems most profitable--sometimes to
top-dress an old grass-field, that for some reason we prefer not to break for another year.
Sometimes it goes on a piece of fall wheat, and sometimes is kept over for a barley field the
following spring, and harrowed in just before sowing.

“I should spread the manure as it comes from the sheds, instead of piling it, but the great
quantity of snow we usually have, has always seemed to be an insuperable obstacle. It is an
advantage to pile it, and to give it one turning, but, on the other hand, the piles made in
cold weather freeze through, and they take a provokingly long time to thaw out in the spring.
I never found manure piled out of doors to get too much water from rain.

“I have given up using gypsum, except a little in the stables, because the clover grows too
strong without it, and so long as this is the case, I do not need gypsum. But I sometimes have
a piece of oats or barley that stands still, and looks sick, and a dose of gypsum helps it
very much.”

“That is a fact worth remembering,” said the Deacon.

“I use some superphosphate,” continues Mr. Harison, “and some ground bones on my turnips. We
also use superphosphate on oats, barley, and wheat (about 200 lbs. per acre), and find it pays.
Last year, our estimate was, on 10 acres of oats, comparing with a strip in the middle, left
for the purpose, that the 200 lbs. of superphosphate increased the crop 15 bushels per acre,
and gave a gain in quality. It was the “Manhattan,” which has about three per cent ammonia,
and seven to eight per cent soluble phosphoric acid.

“My rotation, which I stick to as close as I can, is: 1, oats; 2, corn, and potatoes, and roots;
3, barley or spring wheat; 4, 5, and 6, grass (clover or timothy, with a little mixture occasionally).

“I am trying to get to 4, fall wheat, but it is mighty risky.”

“That is a very sensible letter,” said the Deacon; “but it is evident that he raises more grain
than I supposed was generally the case in the dairy districts; and the fact that his clover
is so heavy that he does not need plaster, indicates that his land is rich.”

It merely confirms what I have said all along, and that is, that the dairymen, if they will
feed their animals liberally, and cultivate their soil thoroughly, can soon have productive
farms. There are very few of us in this section who can make manure enough to give all our
corn, potatoes, and roots, 25 loads of rotted manure per acre, and have some to spare.

In the spring of 1877, Mr. Harison wrote: “I have been hauling out manure all winter as fast
as made, and putting it on the land. At first we spread it; but when deep snows came, we put
it in small heaps. The field looks as if there had been a grain crop on it left uncut.”

“That last remark,” said the Doctor, “indicates that the manure looks more like straw than
well-rotted dung, and is an argument in favor of your plan of piling the manure in the yard
or field, instead of spreading it on the land, or putting it in small heaps.”

CHAPTER XXIII.

MANAGEMENT OF MANURES ON GRAIN-FARMS.

“I am surprised to find,” said the Deacon, “that Mr. Harison, living as he does in the great
grass and dairy district of this State, should raise so much grain. He has nearly as large
a proportion of his land under the plow as some of the best wheat-growers of Western New York.”

This remark of the Deacon is right to the point. The truth is, that some of our best wheat-growers
are plowing less land, and are raising more grass, and keeping more stock; and some of the
dairymen, though not keeping less stock, are plowing more land. The better farmers of both
sections are approaching each other.

At all events, it is certain that the wheat growers will keep more stock. I wrote to the Hon.
Geo. Geddes, of Onondaga Co., N.Y., well known as a large wheat-grower, and as a life-long
advocate of keeping up the fertility of our farms by growing clover. He replies as follows:

“I regret that I have not time to give your letter the consideration it deserves. The subject
you have undertaken is truly a difficult one. The circumstances of a grain-raiser and a dairyman
are so unlike, that their views in regard to the treatment of the manure produced on the farm
would vary as greatly as the lines of farming they follow.

“The grain-grower has straw in excess; he tries hard to get it into such form that he can draw
it to his fields, and get it at work, at the least cost in labor. So he covers his barn-yards
deep with straw, after each snow-storm, and gets his cattle, sheep, and horses, to trample
it under foot; and he makes his pigs convert all he can into such form that it will do to apply
it to his pastures, etc., in winter or early spring.

“A load of such manure is large, perhaps, but of no very great value, as compared with well-rotted
stable-manure from grain-fed horses; but it is as good as much that I have seen drawn from
city stables, and carried far, to restore the worn-out hay-fields on the shores of the North
River--in fact, quite like it.

“The dairyman, generally, has but little straw, and his manure is mostly dung of cows, worth
much more, per cord, than the straw-litter of the grain-growers.

“The grain-grower will want no sheds for keeping off the rain, but, rather, he will desire
more water than will fall on an open yard. The milkman will wish to protect his cow-dung from
all rains, or even snows; so he is a great advocate of manure-sheds. These two classes of farmers
will adopt quite unlike methods of applying their manure to crops.

“I have cited these two classes of farmers, simply to show the difficulty of making any universal
laws in regard to the treatment and use of barn-yard manure. * * *

“I think you and I are fully agreed in regard to the farm being the true source of the manure
that is to make the land grow better with use, and still produce crops--perhaps you will go
with me so far as to say, the greater the crops, the more manure they will make--and the more
manure, the larger the crops.

“Now, I object to any special farming, when applied to a whole great division of country, such
as merely raising grain, or devoted entirely to dairying.

“I saw at Rome, N.Y., these two leading branches of New York farming united on the Huntington
tract of 1,300 acres. Three or four farms (I forget which) had separate and distinct management,
conducted by different families, but each had a dairy combined with the raising of large crops
of grain, such as wheat, corn, oats, etc. These grain-crops, with suitable areas of meadow
and pasture, sustained the dairy, and the cows converted much of the grain, and all of the
forage, into manure. Thus was combined, to mutual advantage, these two important branches of
New York farming. Wheat and cheese to sell, and constant improvement in crops.

“In our own case, sheep have been combined with grain-raising. So we have sold wool, wheat,
and barley, and, in all my life, not five tons of hay. Clover, you know, has been our great
forage-crop. We have wintered our sheep mostly on clover-hay, having some timothy mixed with
it, that was necessarily cut (to make into hay with the medium, or early clover,) when it was
but grass. We have fed such hay to our cows and horses, and have usually worked into manure
the corn-stalks of about 20 acres of good corn, each winter, and we have worked all the straw
into shape to apply as manure that we could, spreading it thickly on pastures and such other
fields as were convenient. Some straw we have sold, mostly to paper-makers.”

“That,” said the Deacon, “is good, old-fashioned farming. Plenty of straw for bedding, and
good clover and timothy-hay for feed, with wool, wheat, and barley to sell. No talk about oil-cake,
malt-combs, and mangels; nothing about superphosphate, guano, or swamp-muck.”

Mr. Geddes and Mr. Johnston are both representative farmers; both are large wheat-growers;
both keep their land clean and thoroughly cultivated; both use gypsum freely; both raise large
crops of clover and timothy; both keep sheep, and yet they represent two entirely different
systems of farming. One is the great advocate of clover; the other is the great advocate of manure.

I once wrote to Mr. Geddes, asking his opinion as to the best time to plow under clover for
wheat. He replied as follows:

“Plow under the clover when it is at full growth. But your question can much better be answered
at the end of a long, free talk, which can best be had here. I have many times asked you to
come here, not to see fine farming, for we have none to show, but to see land that has been
used to test the effects of clover for nearly 70 years. On the ground, I could talk to a willing
auditor long, if not wisely. I am getting tired of being misunderstood, and of having my statements
doubted when I talk about clover as the great renovator of land. You preach agricultural truth,
and the facts you would gather in this neighborhood are worth your knowing, and worth giving
to the world. So come here and gather some facts about clover. All that I shall try to prove
to you is, that the fact that clover and plaster are by far the cheapest manures that can be
had for our lands, has been demonstrated by many farmers beyond a doubt--so much cheaper than
barn-yard manure that the mere loading of and spreading costs more than the plaster and clover.
Do not quote me as saying this, but come and see the farms hereabouts, and talk with our farmers.”

Of course I went, and had a capital time. Mr. Geddes has a magnificent farm of about 400 acres,
some four miles from Syracuse. It is in high condition, and is continually improving, and this
is due to growing large and frequent crops of clover, and to good, deep plowing, and clean
and thorough culture.

We drove round among the farmers. “Here is a man,” said Mr. G., “who run in debt $45 per acre
for his farm. He has educated his family, paid off his debt, and reports his net profits at
from $2,000 to $2,500 a year on a farm of 90 acres; and this is due to clover. You see he is
building a new barn, and that does not look as though his land was running down under the system.”
The next farmer we came to was also putting up a new barn, and another farmer was enlarging
an old one. “Now, these farmers have never paid a dollar for manure of any kind except plaster,
and their lands certainly do not deteriorate.”

From Syracuse, I went to Geneva, to see our old friend John Johnston. “Why did you not tell
me you were coming?” he said. “I would have met you at the cars. But I am right glad to see
you. I want to show you my wheat, where I put on 250 lbs. of guano per acre last fall. People
here don’t know that I used it, and you must not mention it. It is grand.”

I do not know that I ever saw a finer piece of wheat. It was the Diehl variety, sown 14th September,
at the rate of 1¼ bushels per acre. It was quite thick enough. One breadth of the drill was
sown at the rate of two bushels per acre. This is earlier. “But,” said Mr. J., “the other will
have larger heads, and will yield more.” After examining the wheat, we went to look at the
piles of muck and manure in the barn-yard, and from these to a splendid crop of timothy. “It
will go 2½ tons of hay per acre,” said Mr. J., “and now look at this adjoining field. It is
just as good land naturally, and there is merely a fence between, and yet the grass and clover
are so poor as hardly to be worth cutting.”

“What makes the difference?” I asked.

Mr. Johnston, emphatically, “Manure.”

The poor field did not belong to him!

Mr. Johnston’s farm was originally a cold, wet, clayey soil. Mr. Geddes’ land did not need
draining, or very little. Of course, land that needs draining, is richer after it is drained,
than land that is naturally drained. And though Mr. Johnston was always a good farmer, yet
he says he “never made money until he commenced to drain.” The accumulated fertility in the
land could then be made available by good tillage, and from that day to this, his land has
been growing richer and richer. And, in fact, the same is true of Mr. Geddes’ farm. It is richer
land to-day than when first plowed, while there is one field that for seventy years has had
no manure applied to it, except plaster. How is this to be explained? Mr. Geddes would say
it was due to clover and plaster. But this does not fully satisfy those who claim, (and truly),
that “always taking out of the meal-tub and never putting in, soon comes to the bottom.” The
clover can add nothing to the land, that it did not get from the soil, except organic matter
obtained from the atmosphere, and the plaster furnishes little or nothing except lime and sulphuric
acid. There are all the other ingredients of plant-food to be accounted for--phosphoric acid,
potash, soda, magnesia, etc. A crop of clover, or corn, or wheat, or barley, or oats, will
not come to perfection unless every one of these elements is present in the soil in an available
condition. Mr. Geddes has not furnished a single ounce of any one of them.

“Where do they come from?”

I answer, from the soil itself. There is probably enough of these elements in the soil to last
ten thousand years; and if we return to the soil all the straw, chaff, and bran, and sell nothing
but fine flour, meat, butter, etc., there is probably enough to last a million years, and you
and I need not trouble ourselves with speculations as to what will happen after that time.
Nearly all our soils are practically inexhaustible. But of course these elements are not in
an available condition. If they were, the rains would wash them all into the ocean. They are
rendered available by a kind of fermentation. A manure-heap packed as hard and solid as a rock
would not decay; but break it up, make it fine, turn it occasionally so as to expose it to
the atmosphere, and with the proper degree of moisture and heat it will ferment rapidly, and
all its elements will soon become available food for plants. Nothing has been created by the
process. It was all there. We have simply made it available. So it is with the soil. Break
it up, make it fine, turn it occasionally, expose it to the atmosphere, and the elements it
contains become available.

I do not think that Mr. Geddes’ land is any better, naturally, than yours or mine. We can all
raise fair crops by cultivating the land thoroughly, and by never allowing a weed to grow.
On Mr. Lawes’ experimental wheat-field, the plot that has never received a particle of manure,
produces every year an average of about 15 bushels per acre. And the whole crop is removed--grain,
straw, and chaff. Nothing is returned. And that the land is not remarkably rich, is evident
from the fact that some of the farms in the neighborhood, produce, under the ordinary system
of management, but little more wheat, once in four or five years than is raised every year
on this experimental plot without any manure.

Why? Because these farmers do not half work their land, and the manure they make is little
better than rotten straw. Mr. Lawes’ wheat-field is plowed twice every year, and when I was
there, the crop was hand-hoed two or three times in the spring. Not a weed is suffered to grow.
And this is all there is to it.

Now, of course, instead of raising 15 bushels of wheat every year, it is a good deal better
to raise a crop of 30 bushels every other year, and still better to raise 45 bushels every
third year. And it is here that clover comes to our aid. It will enable us to do this very
thing, and the land runs no greater risk of exhaustion than Mr. Lawes’ unmanured wheat crop.

Mr. Geddes and I do not differ as much as you suppose. In fact, I do not believe that we differ
at all. He has for years been an earnest advocate for growing clover as a renovating crop.
He thinks it by far the cheapest manure that can be obtained in this section. I agree with
him most fully in all these particulars. He formed his opinion from experience and observation.
I derived mine from the Rothamsted experiments. And the more I see of practical farming, the
more am I satisfied of their truth. Clover is, unquestionably, the great renovating crop of
American agriculture. A crop of clover, equal to two tons of hay, when plowed under, will furnish
more ammonia to the soil than twenty tons of straw-made manure, drawn out fresh and wet in
the spring, or than twelve tons of our ordinary barn-yard manure. No wonder Mr. Geddes and
other intelligent farmers recommend plowing under clover as manure. I differ from them in no
respect except this: that it is not absolutely essential to plow clover under in the green
state in order to get its fertilizing effect; but, if made into hay, and this hay is fed to
animals, and all the manure carefully saved, and returned to the land, there need be comparatively
little loss. The animals will seldom take out more than from five to ten per cent of all the
nitrogen furnished in the food--and less still of mineral matter. I advocate growing all the
clover you possibly can--so does Mr. Geddes. He says, plow it under for manure. So say I--unless
you can make more from feeding out the clover-hay, than will pay you for waiting a year, and
for cutting and curing the clover and drawing back the manure. If you plow it under, you are
sure of it. There is no loss. In feeding it out, you may lose more or less from leaching, and
injurious fermentation. But, of course, you need not lose anything, except the little that
is retained in the flesh, or wool, or milk, of the animals. As things are on many farms, it
is perhaps best to plow under the clover for manure at once. As things ought to be, it is a
most wasteful practice. If you know how to feed out the hay to advantage, and take pains to
save the manure (and to add to its value by feeding oil-cake, bran, etc., with it), it is far
better to mow your clover, once for hay, and once for seed, than to plow it under. Buy oil-cake
and bran with the money got from the seed, and growing clover-seed will not injure the land.

I am glad to hear that Mr. Geddes occasionally sells straw. I once sold 15 tons of straw to
the paper-makers for $150, they drawing it themselves, and some of my neighbors criticised
me severely for doing so. It is not considered an orthodox practice. I do not advocate selling
straw as a rule; but, if you have more than you can use to advantage, and it is bringing a
good price, sell part of the straw and buy bran, oil-cake, etc., with the money. To feed nothing
but straw to stock is poor economy; and to rot it down for manure is no better. Straw itself
is not worth $3.00 a ton for manure; and as one ton of straw, spread in an open yard to rot,
will make, in spring, about four tons of so-called manure, and if it costs 50 cents a ton to
draw out and spread it, the straw, even at this comparatively high estimate of its value, nets
you, when fed out alone, or rotted down, only $1.00 a ton.

I had about 30 tons of straw. Fed out alone or rotted down it would make 120 tons of manure.
After deducting the expense of hauling, and spreading, it nets me on the land, $30. Now sell
half the straw for $150, and buy three tons of oil-cake to feed out with the other half, and
you would have about seventy tons of manure. The manure from the fifteen tons of straw is worth,
say $45, and from the three tons of oil-cake, $60, or $105. It will cost $35 to draw and spread
it, and will thus net on the land, $70. So far as the manure question is concerned, therefore,
it is far better to sell half your straw, and buy oil-cake with the money, than to feed it
out alone--and I think it is also far better for the stock. Of course, it would be better for
the farm, not to sell any of the straw, and to buy six tons of oil-cake to feed out with it;
but those of us who are short of capital, must be content to bring up our land by slow degrees.

“I am at a loss to understand,” wrote Mr. Geddes, “what you mean, when you say that a ton of
straw will make, in the spring of the year, four tons of so-called manure. If you had said
that four tons of straw would make one ton of manure, I should have thought nothing of it.
But how you can turn one ton of straw into four tons of anything that anybody will call manure,
I do not see. In a conversation I had with Hon. Lewis F. Allen, of Black Rock, more than a
year ago, he told me that he had enquired of the man who furnished hay for feeding cattle at
the Central Yards, in Buffalo, as to the loads of manure he sold, and though I can not now
say the exact quantity to a ton of hay, I remember that it was very little--far less than I
had before supposed. Please explain this straw-manure matter.”

Boussingault, the great French chemist-farmer, repeatedly analyzed the manure from his barn-yard.
“The animals which had produced this dung, were 30 horses, 30 oxen, and from 10 to 20 pigs.
The absolute quantity of moisture was ascertained, by first drying in the air a considerable
weight of dung, and after pounding, continuing and completing, the drying of a given quantity.”
No one can doubt the accuracy of the results. The dung made in the

  Winter of 1837-8, contained 79.6 per cent of water.
    ”     ” 1838-9,     ”     77.8  ”   ”    ”   ”
  Autumn  ” 1839,       ”     80.4  ”   ”    ”   ”

Fresh solid cow-dung contains, according to the same authority, 90 per cent of water.

I have frequently seen manure drawn out in the spring, that had not been decomposed at all,
and with more or less snow among it, and with water dripping from the wagon, while it was being
loaded. It was, in fact, straw saturated with water, and discolored by the droppings of animals.
Now, how much of such manure would a ton of dry straw make? If we should take 20 lbs. of straw,
trample it down, and from time to time sprinkle it with water and snow, until we had got on
80 lbs., and then put on 20 lbs. more straw, and 80 lbs. more water, and keep on until we had
used up a ton of straw, how much “so-called manure,” should we have to draw out?

  2,000 lbs. of straw, and 8,000 lbs. water
      = 10,000 lbs. so-called manure.

In other words, we get five tons of such manure from one ton of straw. This is, perhaps, an
extreme case, but there can be little doubt, that a ton of straw, trampled down by cattle,
and sheep, in an open barn-yard, exposed to snow and rain, would weigh four tons when drawn
out wet in the spring.

Yes, it is quite an argument in favor of manure cellars. I have always had a prejudice against
them--probably, because the first one I saw was badly managed. There is, however, no necessity,
even in an ordinary open barn-yard, with more or less sheds and stables, of having so much
water in the manure when drawn out. The real point of my remarks, which so surprised Mr. Geddes,
was this: We have to draw out so much water with our manure, under any circumstances, that
we should try to have it as rich as possible. It is certainly true, that, if the manure from
a ton of straw is worth $3, that from a ton of clover-hay, is worth $10. And it costs no more
to draw out and spread the one than the other. I have never yet found a farmer who would believe
that a ton of clover-hay, rotted down in the barn-yard, would make three or four tons of manure;
but he would readily assent to the proposition, that it took four or five tons of green clover
to make a ton of hay; and that if these four or five tons of green-clover were rotted in the
yard, it would make three or four tons of manure. And yet, the only difference between the
green-clover and the hay, is, that the latter has lost some 60 or 70 per cent of water in curing.
Add that amount of water to the hay, and it will make as much manure as the green-clover from
which the hay was made.

GYPSUM AND CLOVER AS MANURE.

A good farmer came in while we were talking. “Nothing like plaster and clover,” he said, “for
keeping up a wheat-farm.” And you will find this the general opinion of nearly all American
wheat-growers. It must be accepted as a fact. But the deductions drawn from the fact are as
various as they are numerous.

Let us look first at the fact. And, if you like, we will take my own farm as an example. About
60 years ago, it was covered with the primeval forest. The trees, on the higher and drier land,
were first cut down, and many of them burnt on the land. Wheat was sown among the stumps. The
crop varied in different years, from 10 to 30 bushels per acre. When 30 bushels were grown,
the fact was remembered. When 10 bushels only were grown, little was said about it in after
years, until now there is a general impression that our wheat crops were formerly much larger
per acre than now. I doubt it; but we will not discuss the point. One thing is certain, the
land would produce good crops of clover; and when this clover was plowed under for manure,
we got better crops of wheat afterwards. This was the rule. Later, we commenced to use gypsum
as a top-dressing on clover. The effect was often wonderful. Farmers will tell you that they
sowed 200 lbs. of plaster per acre, on their young clover, in the spring, and it doubled the
crop. This statement expresses an agricultural, and not an arithmetical fact. We do not know
that the crop on the plastered portion was twice as heavy as on the unplastered. We know that
it was larger, and more luxuriant. There was a greater, and more vigorous growth. And this
extra growth was caused by the small top-dressing of powdered gypsum rock. It was a great fact
in agriculture. I will call it fact, No. 1.

Then, when the clover was turned under, we usually got good wheat. This is fact, No. 2. On
these two facts, hang many of our agricultural theories. We may state these facts in many ways.
Still, it all comes to this: Clover is good for wheat; plaster is good for clover.

There is another fact, which is a matter of general observation and remark. You rarely find
a good farmer who does not pay special attention to his clover-crop. When I was riding with
Mr. Geddes, among the farmers of Onondaga County, on passing a farm where everything looked
thrifty--good fences, good buildings, good garden, good stock, and the land clean and in good
condition--I would ask who lived there, or some other question. No matter what. The answer
was always the same. “Oh! he is another of our clover men.” We will call this fact, No. 3.

And when, a year afterwards, Mr. Geddes returned my visit, and I drove him around among the
farmers of Monroe County, he found precisely the same state of facts. All our good farmers
were clover men. Among the good wheat-growers in Michigan, you will find the same state of things.

These are the facts. Let us not quarrel over them.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE CHEAPEST MANURE A FARMER CAN USE.

I do not know who first said, “The cheapest manure a farmer can use is--clover-seed,” but the
saying has become part of our agricultural literature, and deserves a passing remark.

I have heard good farmers in Western New York say, that if they had a field sown with wheat
that they were going to plow the spring after the crop was harvested, they would sow 10 lbs.
of clover-seed on the wheat in the spring. They thought that the growth of the clover in the
fall, after the wheat was cut, and the growth the next spring, before the land was plowed,
would afford manure worth much more than the cost of the clover-seed.

“I do not doubt it,” said the Deacon; “but would it not be better to let the crop grow a few
months longer, and then plow it under?”

“But that is not the point,” I remarked; “we sometimes adopt a rotation when Indian-corn follows
a crop of wheat. In such a case, good farmers sometimes plow the land in the fall, and again
the next spring, and then plant corn. This is one method. But I have known, as I said before,
good farmers to seed down the wheat with clover; and the following spring, say the third week
in May, plow under the young clover, and plant immediately on the furrow. If the land is warm,
and in good condition, you will frequently get clover, by this time, a foot high, and will
have two or three tons of succulent vegetation to turn under; and the farmer who first recommended
the practice to me, said that the cut-worms were so fond of this green-clover that they did
not molest the young corn-plants. I once tried the plan myself, and found it to work well;
but since then, I have kept so many pigs and sheep, that clover has been too useful to plow
under. But we will not discuss this point at present.

“What I wanted to say is this: Here we have a field in wheat. Half of it (A) we seed down with
12 lbs. of clover-seed per acre; the other half (B) not. The clover-seed and sowing on A, cost,
say, $2 per acre. We plow B in the fall; this will cost us about as much as the clover seed
sown on A. In the spring, A and B are both plowed and planted to corn. Now, which half of the
field will be in the cleanest and best condition, and which will produce the best corn, and
the best barley, or oats, afterwards?”

“I vote for A,” said the Deacon.

“I vote for A,” said the Doctor.

“I vote for A,” said the Squire.

“I should think,” modestly suggested Charley, “that it would depend somewhat on the soil,”
and Charley is right. On a clean, moderately rich piece of light, sandy soil, I should certainly
expect much better corn, and better barley or oats, on A, where the clover was grown, than
on B. But if the field was a strong loam, that needed thorough cultivation to get it mellow
enough for corn, I am inclined to think that B would come out ahead. At any rate, I am sure
that on my own farm, moderately stiff land, if I was going to plant corn after wheat, I should
not seed it down with clover. I would plow the wheat stubble immediately after harvest, and
harrow and cultivate it to kill the weeds, and then, six weeks or two months later, I would
plow it again. I would draw out manure in the winter, pile it up in the field to ferment, and
the next spring spread it, and plow it under, and then--

“And then what?” asked the Deacon. --“Why the truth is,” said I, “then I would not plant corn
at all. I should either sow the field to barley, or drill in mangel-wurzel or Swede-turnips.
But if I did plant corn, I should expect better corn than if I had sown clover with the wheat;
and the land, if the corn was well cultivated, would be remarkably clean, and in fine condition;
and the next time the land was seeded down with clover, we could reasonably expect a great crop.”

The truth is, that clover-seed is sometimes a very cheap manure, and farmers are in no danger
of sowing too much of it. I do not mean sowing too much seed per acre, but they are in no danger
of sowing too many acres with clover. On this point, there is no difference of opinion. It
is only when we come to explain the action of clover--when we draw deductions from the facts
of the case--that we enter a field bristling all over with controversy.

“You have just finished threshing,” said the Deacon, “and for my part, I would rather hear
how your wheat turned out, than to listen to any of your chemical talk about nitrogen, phosphoric
acid, and potash.”

“The wheat,” said I, “turned out full as well as I expected. Fourteen acres of it was after
wheat, and eight acres of it after oats. Both these fields were seeded down with clover last
year, but the clover failed, and there was nothing to be done but to risk them again with wheat.
The remainder was after barley. In all, there was not quite 40 acres, and we had 954 bushels
of Diehl wheat. This is not bad in the circumstances; but I shall not be content until I can
average, taking one year with another, 35 to 40 bushels per acre. If the land had been rich
enough, there would unquestionably have been 40 bushels per acre this year. That is to say,
the season was quite capable of producing this amount; and I think the mechanical condition
of the land was also equal to it; all that was needed was sufficient available plant-food in
the soil.”

“I can see no reason,” said the Doctor, “why you may not average 40 bushels of wheat per acre
in a good season.”

“The field of 14 acres,” said I, “where wheat followed wheat, yielded 23 bushels per acre.
Last year it yielded 22 bushels per acre; and so we got in the two years 45 bushels per acre.”

This field has had no manure of any kind for years. In fact, since the land was cleared, 40
or 50 years ago, I presume that all the manure that has been applied would not, in the aggregate,
be equal to more than a good crop of clover-hay. The available plant-food required to produce
these two crops of wheat came from the soil itself, and from the rain, dews, and atmosphere.
The land is now seeded down with clover, and with the aid of a bushel or two of plaster per
acre, next spring, it is not improbable that, if mown twice for hay next year, it will yield
in the two crops three tons of hay per acre.

Now, three tons of clover-hay contain about 33 lbs. of phosphoric acid, 90 lbs. of potash,
and 150 lbs. of nitrogen.

The last crop of wheat, of 22 bushels per acre, and say 1,500 lbs. of straw, would contain:

                   In the grain.     In the straw.   In total crop.
  Phosphoric acid   11½ lbs.          3¾ lbs.         15¼ lbs.
  Potash             6¾     ”         9¾     ”        16½     ”
  Nitrogen          23      ”         9½     ”        32½     ”

It seems very unkind in the wheat-plants not to give me more than 22 bushels per acre, when
the clover-plants coming after will find phosphoric acid enough for 40 bushels of wheat, and
potash and nitrogen enough for nearly 100 bushels of wheat per acre. And these are the three
important constituents of plant-food.

Why, then, did I get only 22 bushels of wheat per acre? I got 23 bushels on the same land the
year previous, and it is not improbable that if I had sown the same land to wheat again this
fall, I should get 12 or 15 bushels per acre again next year. But the clover will find plant-food
enough for 40 bushels of wheat.

“There is not much doubt,” said the Deacon, “that you will get a good crop of clover, if you
will keep the sheep off of the land this fall. But I do not see what you mean by the clover-plants
finding food enough for 40 bushels of wheat, while in point of fact, if you had sown the field
again to wheat this fall, you would not, as you say, probably get more than 12 or 15 bushels
of wheat.”

“He means this,” said the Doctor. “If he had sown the land to wheat this fall, without manure,
he would probably not get over 15 bushels of wheat per acre, and yet you both agree that the
land will, in all probability, produce next year, if mown twice, three tons of clover-hay per
acre, without any manure.

“Now, if we admit that the clover gets no more nitrogen from the rain and dews, and from the
atmosphere, than the wheat will get, then it follows that this soil, which will only produce
15 bushels of wheat per acre, does, in point of fact, contain plant-food enough for 40 bushels
of wheat, and the usual proportion of straw.

“The two crops take up from the soil as follows:

                              Phosphoric acid.  Potash.    Nitrogen.
  15 bushels wheat and straw     10¼ lbs.       11¼ lbs.    22 lbs.
  3 tons clover-hay              33   ”         90   ”     150  ”

“These facts and figures,” continued the Doctor, “are worth looking at and thinking about.
Why can not the wheat get as much phosphoric acid out of the soil as the clover?”

“Because,” said the Deacon, “the roots of the clover go down deeper into the subsoil than the
roots of wheat.”

“That is a very good reason, so far as it goes,” said I, “but does not include all the facts.
I have no sort of doubt, that if I had sown this land to wheat, and put on 75 lbs. of nitrogen
per acre, I should have got a wheat-crop containing, in grain and straw, 30 lbs. of phosphoric
acid. And so the reason I got 15 bushels of wheat per acre, instead of 40 bushels, is not because
the roots of wheat do not go deep enough to find sufficient soluble phosphoric acid.”

“Possibly,” said the Doctor, “the nitrogen you apply may render the phosphoric acid in the
soil more soluble.”

“That is true,” said I; “and this was the answer Liebig gave to Mr. Lawes. Of which more at
some future time. But this answer, like the Deacon’s, does not cover all the facts of the case;
for a supply of soluble phosphoric acid would not, in all probability, give me a large crop
of wheat. I will give you some facts presently bearing on this point.

“What we want to find out is, why the clover can get so much more phosphoric acid, potash,
and nitrogen, than the wheat, from the same soil?”

MORE ABOUT CLOVER.

The Deacon seemed to think the Doctor was going to give a scientific answer to the question.
“If the clover can get more nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, from the same soil than
wheat,” said he, “why not accept the fact, and act accordingly? You scientific gentlemen want
to explain everything, and sometimes make confusion worse confounded. We know that a sheep
will grow fat in a pasture where a cow would starve.”

“True,” said the Doctor, “and that is because the cow gathers food with her tongue, and must
have the grass long enough for her to get hold of it; while a sheep picks up the grass with
her teeth and gums, and, consequently, the sheep can eat the grass down into the very ground.”

“Very well,” said the Deacon; “and how do you know but that the roots of the clover gather
up their food sheep-fashion, while the wheat-roots eat like a cow?”

“That is not a very scientific way of putting it,” said the Doctor; “but I am inclined to think
the Deacon has the right idea.”

“Perhaps, then,” said I, “we had better let it go at that until we get more light on the subject.
We must conclude that the wheat can not get food enough from the soil to yield a maximum crop,
not because there is not food enough in the field, but the roots of the wheat are so constituted
that they can not gather it up; while clover-roots, foraging in the same soil, can find all
they want.”

“Clover,” said the Deacon, “is the scavenger of the farm; like a pig, it gathers up what would
otherwise be wasted.”

“Of course, these illustrations,” said the Doctor, “do not give us any clear idea of how the
clover-plants take up food. We must recollect that the roots of plants take up their food in
solution; and it has just occurred to me that, possibly, Mr. Lawes’ experiments on the amount
of water given off by plants during their growth, may throw some light on the subject we are
discussing.”

“Mr. Lawes found,” continued the Doctor, “that a wheat-plant, from March 19 to June 28, or
101 days, evaporated through its leaves, etc., 45,713 grains of water; while a clover-plant,
standing alongside, and in precisely similar condition, evaporated 55,093 grains. The clover
was cut June 28, when in full bloom. The wheat-plant was allowed to grow until ripe, Sept.
7. From June 28 to Sept. 7, or 72 days, the wheat-plant evaporated 67,814 grains.”

“One moment,” said the Deacon; “as I understand, the clover-plant evaporated more water than
the wheat-plant, until the 28th of June, but that during the next 71 days, the wheat-plant
evaporated more water than it had during the previous 101 days.”

“Yes,” said I, “and if these facts prove nothing else, they at least show that there is a great
difference between wheat and clover. I was at Rothamsted when these experiments were made.
During the first nine days of the experiment, the clover-plant evaporated 399.6 grains of water;
while the wheat-plant, standing alongside, evaporated only 128.7 grains. In other words, the
clover-plant evaporated three times as much water as the wheat-plant. During the next 31 days,
the wheat-plant evaporated 1,267.8 grains, and the clover-plant 1,643.0 grains; but during
the next 27 days, from April 28 to May 25, the wheat-plant evaporated 162.4 grains of water
per day, while the clover-plant only evaporated 109.2 grains per day. During the next 34 days,
from May 25 to June 28, the wheat-plant evaporated 1,177.4 grains per day, and the clover-plant
1,473.5 grains per day.”

“In June,” said the Deacon, “the clover evaporates ten times as much water per day as it did
in May. How much water would an acre of clover evaporate?”

“Let Charley figure it out,” said the Doctor. “Suppose each plant occupies 10 square inches
of land; there are 6,272,640 square inches in an acre, and, consequently, there would be 627,264
clover-plants on an acre. Each plant evaporated 1,473.5 grains per day, and there are 7,000
grains in a pound.”

Charley made the calculation, and found that an acre of clover, from May 25 to June 28, evaporated
528,598 lbs. of water, or 15,547 lbs. per day.

A much more accurate way of ascertaining how much water an acre of clover evaporates is afforded
us by these experiments. After the plants were cut, they were weighed and analyzed; and it
being known exactly how much water each plant had given off during its growth, we have all
the facts necessary to tell us just how much a crop of a given weight would evaporate. In brief,
it was found that for each pound of dry substance in the wheat-plant, 247.4 lbs. of water had
been evaporated; and for each pound in the clover-plant, 269.1 lbs.

An acre of wheat of 15 bushels per acre of grain, and an equal weight of straw, would exhale
during the spring and summer 177¾ tons of water, or calculated on 172 days, the duration of
the experiment, 2,055 lbs. per day.

An acre of clover that would make two tons of hay, would pass off through its leaves, in 101
days, 430 tons of water, or 8,600 lbs. per day--more than four times as much as the wheat.

These figures show that, from an agricultural point of view, there is a great difference between,
wheat and clover; and yet I think the figures do not show the whole of the difference. The
clover was cut just at the time when the wheat-plant was entering on its period of most rapid
growth and exhalation, and, consequently, the figures given above probably exaggerate the amount
of water given off by the wheat during the early part of the season. It is, at any rate, quite
clear, and this is all I want to show, that an acre of good clover exhales a much larger amount
of water from spring to hay-harvest than an acre of wheat.

“And what,” said the Deacon, who was evidently getting tired of the figures, “does all this prove?”

The figures prove that clover can drink a much greater quantity of water during March, April,
May, and June, than wheat; and, consequently, to get the same amount of food, it is not necessary
that the clover should have as much nitrogen, phosphoric acid, potash, etc., in the water as
the wheat-plant requires. I do not know that I make myself understood.

“You want to show,” said the Deacon, “that the wheat-plant requires richer food than clover.”

Yes, I want to show that, though clover requires more food per day than wheat, yet the clover
can drink such a large amount of water, that it is not necessary to make the “sap of the soil”
so rich in nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, for clover, as it is for wheat. I think this
tells the whole story.

Clover is, or may be, the grandest renovating and enriching crop commonly grown on our farms.
It owes its great value, not to any power it may or may not possess of getting nitrogen from
the atmosphere, or phosphoric acid and potash from the subsoil, but principally, if not entirely,
to the fact that the roots can drink up such a large amount of water, and live and thrive on
very weak food.

HOW TO MAKE A FARM RICH BY GROWING CLOVER.

Not by growing the clover, and selling it. Nothing would exhaust the land so rapidly as such
a practice. We must either plow under the clover, let it rot on the surface, or pasture it,
or use it for soiling, or make it into hay, feed it out to stock, and return the manure to
the land. If clover got its nitrogen from the atmosphere, we might sell the clover, and depend
on the roots left in the ground, to enrich the soil for the next crop. But if, as I have endeavored
to show, clover gets its nitrogen from a weak solution in the soil, it is clear, that though
for a year or two we might raise good crops from the plant-food left in the clover-roots, yet
we should soon find that growing a crop of clover, and leaving only the roots in the soil,
is no way to permanently enrich land.

I do not say that such a practice will “exhaust” the land. Fortunately, while it is an easy
matter to impoverish land, we should have to call in the aid of the most advanced agricultural
science, before we could “exhaust” land of its plant-food. The free use of Nitrate of Soda,
or Sulphate of Ammonia, might enable us to do something in the way of exhausting our farms,
but it would reduce our balance at a bank, or send us to the poor-house, before we had fully
robbed the land of its plant-food.

To exhaust land, by growing and selling clover, is an agricultural impossibility, for the simple
reason that, long before the soil is exhausted, the clover would produce such a poverty-stricken
crop, that we should give up the attempt.

We can make our land poor, by growing clover, and selling it; or, we can make our land rich,
by growing clover, and feeding it out on the farm. Or, rather, we can make our land rich, by
draining it where needed, cultivating it thoroughly, so as to develope the latent plant-food
existing in the soil, and then by growing clover to take up and organize this plant-food. This
is how to make land rich by growing clover. It is not, in one sense, the clover that makes
the land rich; it is the draining and cultivation, that furnishes the food for the clover.
The clover takes up this food and concentrates it. The clover does not create the plant-food;
it merely saves it. It is the thorough cultivation that enriches the land, not the clover.

“I wish,” writes a distinguished New York gentleman, who has a farm of barren sand, “you would
tell us whether it is best to let clover ripen and rot on the surface, or plow it under when
in blossom? I have heard that it gave more nitrogen to the land to let it ripen and rot on
it, but as I am no chemist, I do not know.”

If, instead of plowing under the clover--say the last of June, it was left to grow a month
longer, it is quite possible that the clover-roots and seed would contain more nitrogen than
they did a month earlier. It was formerly thought that there was a loss of nitrogen during
the ripening process, but the evidence is not altogether conclusive on the point. Still, if
I had a piece of sandy land that I wished to enrich by clover, I do not think I should plow
it under in June, on the one hand, or let it grow until maturity, and rot down, on the other.
I should rather prefer to mow the crop just as it commenced to blossom, and let the clover
lie, spread out on the land, as left by the machine. There would, I think, be no loss of fertilizing
elements by evaporation, while the clover-hay would act as a mulch, and the second growth of
clover would be encouraged by it. Mow this second crop again, about the first week in August.
Then, unless it was desirable to continue the process another year, the land might be plowed
up in two or three weeks, turning under the two previous crops of clover that are on the surface,
together with the green-clover still growing. I believe this would be better than to let the
clover exhaust itself by running to seed.

CHAPTER XXV.

DR. VŒLCKER’S EXPERIMENTS ON CLOVER.

In the Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of England, for 1868, Dr. Vœlcker, the able
chemist of the Society, and formerly Professor of Agricultural Chemistry, at the Royal Agricultural
College at Cirencester, England, has given us a paper “On the Causes of the Benefits of Clover,
as a preparatory Crop for Wheat.” The paper has been repeatedly and extensively quoted in this
country, but has not been as critically studied as the importance of the subject demands.

“Never mind all that,” said the Deacon, “tell us what Dr. Vœlcker says.”

“Here is the paper,” said I, “and Charley will read it to us.” Charley read as follows:

“Agricultural chemists inform us, that in order to maintain the productive powers of the land
unimpaired, we must restore to it the phosphoric acid, potash, nitrogen, and other substances,
which enter into the composition of our farm crops; the constant removal of organic and inorganic
soil constituents, by the crops usually sold off the farm, leading, as is well known, to more
or less rapid deterioration and gradual exhaustion of the land. Even the best wheat soils of
this and other countries, become more and more impoverished, and sustain a loss of wheat-yielding
power, when corn-crops are grown in too rapid succession without manure. Hence, the universal
practice of manuring, and that also of consuming oil-cake, corn, and similar purchased food
on land naturally poor, or partially exhausted by previous cropping.

“Whilst, however, it holds good as a general rule, that no soil can be cropped for any length
of time, without gradually becoming more and more infertile, if no manure be applied to it,
or if the fertilizing elements removed by the crops grown thereon, be not by some means or
other restored, it is, nevertheless, a fact, that after a heavy crop of clover carried off
as hay, the land, far from being less fertile than before, is peculiarly well adapted, even
without the addition of manure, to bear a good crop of wheat in the following year, provided
the season be favorable to its growth. This fact, indeed, is so well known, that many farmers
justly regard the growth of clover as one of the best preparatory operations which the land
can undergo, in order to its producing an abundant crop of wheat in the following year. It
has further been noticed, that clover mown twice, leaves the land in a better condition, as
regards its wheat-producing capabilities, than when mown once only for hay, and the second
crop fed off on the land by sheep; for, notwithstanding that in the latter instance the fertilizing
elements in the clover-crop are in part restored in the sheep excrements, yet, contrary to
expectation, this partial restoration of the elements of fertility to the land has not the
effect of producing more or better wheat in the following year, than is reaped on land from
off which the whole clover-crop has been carried, and to which no manure whatever has been applied.

“Again, in the opinion of several good, practical agriculturists, with whom I have conversed
on the subject, land whereon clover has been grown for seed in the preceding year, yields a
better crop of wheat than it does when the clover is mown twice for hay, or even only once,
and afterwards fed off by sheep.”

“I do not think,” said the Deacon, “that this agrees with our experience here. A good crop
of clover-seed is profitable, but it is thought to be rather hard on land.”

“Such,” said I, “is the opinion of John Johnston. He thinks allowing clover to go to seed,
impoverishes the soil.”

Charley, continued to read:

“Whatever may be the true explanation of the apparent anomalies connected with the growth and
chemical history of the clover-plant, the facts just mentioned, having been noticed, not once
or twice only, or by a solitary observer, but repeatedly, and by numbers of intelligent farmers,
are certainly entitled to credit; and little wisdom, as it strikes me, is displayed by calling
them into question, because they happen to contradict the prevailing theory, according to which
a soil is said to become more or less impoverished, in proportion to the large or small amount
of organic and mineral soil constituents carried off in the produce.”

“That is well said,” I remarked, “and very truly; but I will not interrupt the reading.”

“In the course of a long residence,” continues Dr. Vœlcker, “in a purely agricultural district,
I have often been struck with the remarkably healthy appearance and good yield of wheat, on
land from which a heavy crop of clover-hay was obtained in the preceding year. I have likewise
had frequent opportunities of observing, that, as a rule, wheat grown on part of a field whereon
clover has been twice mown for hay, is better than the produce of that on the part of the same
field on which the clover has been mown only once for hay, and afterwards fed off by sheep.
These observations, extending over a number of years, led me to inquire into the reasons why
clover is specially well fitted to prepare land for wheat; and in this paper, I shall endeavor,
as the result of my experiments on the subject, to give an intelligible explanation of the
fact, that clover is so excellent a preparatory crop for wheat, as it is practically known to be.

“By those taking a superficial view of the subject, it may be suggested that any injury likely
to be caused by the removal of a certain amount of fertilizing matter, is altogether insignificant,
and more than compensated for, by the benefit which results from the abundant growth of clover-roots,
and the physical improvement in the soil, which takes place in their decomposition. Looking,
however, more closely into the matter, it will be found that in a good crop of clover-hay,
a very considerable amount of both mineral and organic substances is carried off the land,
and that, if the total amount of such constituents in a crop had to be regarded exclusively
as a measure for determining the relative degrees in which different farm crops exhaust the
soil, clover would have to be described as about the most exhausting crop in the entire rotation.

“Clover-hay, on an average, and in round numbers, contains in 100 parts:

  Water                                       17.0
  Nitrogenous substances,
    (flesh-forming matters)*                  15.6
  Non-nitrogenous compounds                   59.9
  Mineral matter, (ash)                        7.5
                                             -----
                                             100.0
                                             =====
    * Containing nitrogen                      2.5

“The mineral portion, or ash, in 100 parts of clover-hay, consists of:

  Phosphoric acid                              7.5
  Sulphuric acid                               4.3
  Carbonic acid                               18.0
  Silica                                       3.0
  Lime                                        30.0
  Magnesia                                     8.5
  Potash                                      20.0
  Soda, chloride of sodium,
    oxide of iron, sand, loss, etc.            8.7
                                             -----
                                             100.0
                                             =====

“Let us suppose the land to have yielded four tons of clover-hay per acre. According to the
preceding data, we find that such a crop includes 224 lbs. of nitrogen, equal to 272 lbs. of
ammonia, and 672 lbs. of mineral matter or ash constituents.

”In 672 lbs. of clover-ash, we find:

  Phosphoric acid                        51½ lbs.
  Sulphuric acid                         29      ”
  Carbonic acid                         121      ”
  Silica                                 20      ”
  Lime                                  201      ”
  Magnesia                               57      ”
  Potash                                134½     ”
  Soda, chloride of sodium,
     oxide of iron, sand, etc.           58      ”
                                        ------------
                                        672     lbs.
                                        ============

“Four tons of clover-hay, the produce of one acre, thus contain a large amount of nitrogen,
and remove from the soil an enormous quantity of mineral matters, abounding in lime and potash,
and containing also a good deal of phosphoric acid.

“Leaving for a moment the question untouched, whether the nitrogen contained in the clover,
is derived from the soil, or from the atmosphere, or partly from the one, and partly from the
other, no question can arise as to the original source from which the mineral matters in the
clover produce are derived. In relation, therefore, to the ash-constituents, clover must be
regarded as one of the most exhausting crops usually cultivated in this country. This appears
strikingly to be the case, when we compare the preceding figures with the quantity of mineral
matters which an average crop of wheat removes from an acre of land.

“The grain and straw of wheat contain, in round numbers, in 100 parts:

                                Grains of
                                 Wheat.     Straw.

  Water                           15.0        16.0
  Nitrogenous substances,
    (flesh-forming matter)*       11.1         4.0
  Non-nitrogenous substances      72.2        74.9
  Mineral matter, (ash)            1.7         5.1
                                  -----      ------
                                 100.0       100.0
                                  =====      ======
  * Containing nitrogen            1.78         .64

“The ash of wheat contains, in 100 parts:

                                 Grain.      Straw.
  Phosphoric acid                 50.0         5.0
  Sulphuric acid                   0.5         2.7
  Carbonic acid
  Silica                           2.5        67.0
  Lime                             3.5         5.5
  Magnesia                        11.5         2.9
  Potash                          30.0        13.0
  Soda, chloride of sodium,
     oxide of iron, sand, etc.     2.0         4.8
                                 -----       -----
      Total                      100.0       100.0
                                 =====       =====

“The mean produce of wheat, per acre, may be estimated at 25 bushels, which, at 60 lbs. per
bushel, gives 1,500 lbs.; and as the weight of the straw is generally twice that of the grain,
its produce will be 3,000 lbs. According, therefore, to the preceding data, there will be carried
away from the soil:

  In 1,500 lbs. of the grain     25 lbs. of mineral food,
                                     (in round numbers).
  In 3,000 lbs. of the straw    150 lbs. of mineral food,
                                     (in round numbers).
                                ---
      Total                     175 lbs.

“On the average of the analyses, it will be found that the composition of these 175 lbs. is
as follows:

  ------------------------------+-----------+-----------+----------
                                |  In the   |  In the   |
                                |  grain.   |  straw.   | Total.
                                +-----------+-----------+----------
  Phosphoric acid               | 12.5 lbs. |  7.5 lbs. | 20.0 lbs.
  Sulphuric acid                |  0.1  ”   |  4.0  ”   |  4.1  ”
  Carbonic acid                 |           |           |
  Silica                        |  0.6  ”   |100.5  ”   |101.1  ”
  Lime                          |  0.9  ”   |  8.2  ”   |  9.1  ”
  Magnesia                      |  2.9  ”   |  3.0  ”   |  5.9  ”
  Potash                        |  7.5  ”   | 19.5  ”   | 27.0  ”
  Soda, chloride of sodium,     |           |           |
    oxide of iron, sand, etc.   |  0.5  ”   |  7.3  ”   |  7.8  ”
                                +-----------+-----------+----------
                                | 25.  lbs. |150.  lbs. |175.  lbs.
  ------------------------------+-----------+-----------+----------

“The total quantity of ash constituents carried off the land, in an average crop of wheat,
thus amounts to only 175 lbs. per acre, whilst a good crop of clover removes as much as 672 lbs.

“Nearly two-thirds of the total amount of mineral in the grain and straw of one acre of wheat,
consists of silica, of which there is an ample supply in almost every soil. The restoration
of silica, therefore, need not trouble us in any way, especially as there is not a single instance
on record, proving that silica, even in a soluble condition, has ever been applied to land,
with the slightest advantage to corn, or grass-crops, which are rich in silica, and which,
for this reason, may be assumed to be particularly grateful for it in a soluble state. Silica,
indeed, if at all capable of producing a beneficial effect, ought to be useful to these crops,
either by strengthening the straw, or stems of graminaceous plants, or otherwise benefiting
them; but, after deducting the amount of silica from the total amount of mineral matters in
the wheat produced from one acre, only a trifling quantity of other and more valuable fertilizing
ash constituents of plants will be left. On comparing the relative amounts of phosphoric acid,
and potash, in an average crop of wheat, and a good crop of clover-hay, it will be seen that
one acre of clover-hay contains as much phosphoric acid, as two and one-half acres of wheat,
and as much potash as the produce from five acres of the same crop. Clover thus unquestionably
removes from the land very much more mineral matter than does wheat; wheat, notwithstanding,
succeeds remarkably well after clover.

“Four tons of clover-hay, or the produce of an acre, contains, as already stated, 224 lbs.
of nitrogen, or calculated as ammonia, 272 lbs.

“Assuming the grain of wheat to furnish 1.78 per cent of nitrogen, and wheat-straw, .64 per
cent, and assuming also that 1,500 lbs. of corn, and 3,000 lbs. of straw, represent the average
produce per acre, there will be in the grain of wheat, per acre, 26.7 lbs. of nitrogen, and
in the straw, 19.2 lbs., or in both together, 46 lbs. of nitrogen; in round numbers, equal
to about 55 lbs. of ammonia, which is only about one-fifth the quantity of nitrogen in the
produce of an acre of clover. Wheat, it is well known, is specially benefited by the application
of nitrogenous manures, and as clover carries off so large a quantity of nitrogen, it is natural
to expect the yield of wheat, after clover, to fall short of what the land might be presumed
to produce without manure, before a crop of clover was taken from it. Experience, however,
has proved the fallacy of this presumption, for the result is exactly the opposite, inasmuch
as a better and heavier crop of wheat is produced than without the intercalation of clover.
What, it may be asked, is the explanation of this apparent anomaly?

“In taking up this inquiry, I was led to pass in review the celebrated and highly important
experiments, undertaken by Mr. Lawes and Dr. Gilbert, on the continued growth of wheat on the
same soil, for a long succession of years, and to examine, likewise carefully, many points,
to which attention is drawn, by the same authors in their memoirs on the growth of red clover
by different manures, and on the Lois Weedon plan of growing wheat. Abundant and most convincing
evidence is supplied by these indefatigable experimenters, that the wheat-producing powers
of a soil are not increased in any sensible degree by the liberal supply of all the mineral
matters, which enter into the composition of the ash of wheat, and that the abstraction of
these mineral matters from the soil, in any much larger proportions than can possibly take
place under ordinary cultivation, in no wise affects the yield of wheat, provided there be
at the same time a liberal supply of available nitrogen within the soil itself. The amount
of the latter, therefore, is regarded by Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert, as the measure of the increased
produce of grain which a soil furnishes.

“In conformity with these views, the farmer, when he wishes to increase the yield of his wheat,
finds it to his advantage to have recourse to ammoniacal, or other nitrogenous manures, and
depends more or less entirely upon the soil, for the supply of the necessary mineral or ash-constituents
of wheat, having found such a supply to be amply sufficient for his requirements. As far, therefore,
as the removal from the soil of a large amount of mineral soil-constituents, by the clover-crop,
is concerned, the fact viewed in the light of the Rothamsted experiments, becomes at once intelligible;
for, notwithstanding the abstraction of over 600 lbs. of mineral matter by a crop of clover,
the succeeding wheat-crop does not suffer. Inasmuch, however, as we have seen, that not only
much mineral matter is carried off the land in a crop of clover, but also much nitrogen, we
might, in the absence of direct evidence to the contrary, be led to suspect that wheat, after
clover, would not be a good crop; whereas, the fact is exactly the reverse.

“It is worthy of notice, that nitrogenous manures, which have such a marked and beneficial
effect upon wheat, do no good, but in certain combinations, in some seasons, do positive harm
to clover. Thus, Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert, in a series of experiments on the growth of red-clover,
by different manures, obtained 14 tons of fresh green produce, equal to about three and three-fourths
tons of clover hay, from the unmanured portion of the experimental field; and where sulphates
of potash, soda, and magnesia, or sulphate of potash and superphosphate of lime were employed,
17 to 18 tons, (equal to from about four and one-half to nearly five tons of hay), were obtained.
When salts of ammonia were added to the mineral manures, the produce of clover-hay was, upon
the whole, less than where the mineral manures were used alone. The wheat, grown after the
clover, on the unmanured plot, gave, however, 29½ bushels of corn, whilst in the adjoining
field, where wheat was grown after wheat, without manure, only 15½ bushels of corn per acre
were obtained. Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert notice especially, that in the clover-crop of the
preceding year, very much larger quantities, both of mineral matters and of nitrogen, were
taken from the land, than were removed in the unmanured wheat-crop in the same year, in the
adjoining field. Notwithstanding this, the soil from which the clover had been taken, was in
a condition to yield 14 bushels more wheat, per acre, than that upon which wheat had been previously
grown; the yield of wheat, after clover, in these experiments, being fully equal to that in
another field, where large quantities of manure were used.

“Taking all these circumstances into account, is there not presumptive evidence, that, notwithstanding
the removal of a large amount of nitrogen in the clover-hay, an abundant store of available
nitrogen is left in the soil, and also that in its relations towards nitrogen in the soil,
clover differs essentially from wheat? The results of our experience in the growth of the two
crops, appear to indicate that, whereas the growth of the wheat rapidly exhausts the land of
its available nitrogen, that of clover, on the contrary, tends somehow or other to accumulate
nitrogen within the soil itself. If this can be shown to be the case, an intelligible explanation
of the fact that clover is so useful as a preparatory crop for wheat, will be found in the
circumstance, that, during the growth of clover, nitrogenous food, for which wheat is particularly
grateful, is either stored up or rendered available in the soil.

“An explanation, however plausible, can hardly be accepted as correct, if based mainly on data,
which, although highly probable, are not proved to be based on fact. In chemical inquiries,
especially, nothing must be taken for granted, that has not been proved by direct experiment.
The following questions naturally suggest themselves in reference to this subject: What is
the amount of nitrogen in soils of different characters? What is the amount more particularly
after a good, and after an indifferent crop of clover? Why is the amount of nitrogen in soils,
larger after clover, than after wheat and other crops? Is the nitrogen present in a condition
in which it is available and useful to wheat? And lastly, are there any other circumstances,
apart from the supply of nitrogenous matter in the soil, which help to account for the beneficial
effects of clover as a preparatory crop for wheat?

“In order to throw some light on these questions, and, if possible, to give distinct answers
to at least some of them, I, years ago, when residing at Cirencester, began a series of experiments;
and more recently, I have been fortunate enough to obtain the co-operation of Mr. Robert Valentine,
of Leighton Buzzard, who kindly undertook to supply me with materials for my analysis.

“My first experiments were made on a thin, calcareous, clay soil, resting on oolitic limestone,
and producing generally a fair crop of red-clover. The clover-field formed the slope of a rather
steep hillock, and varied much in depth. At the top of the hill, the soil became very stony
at a depth of four inches, so that it could only with difficulty be excavated to a depth of
six inches, when the bare limestone-rock made its appearance. At the bottom of the field the
soil was much deeper, and the clover stronger, than at the upper part. On the brow of the hill,
where the clover appeared to be strong, a square yard was measured out; and at a little distance
off, where the clover was very bad, a second square yard was measured; in both plots, the soil
being taken up to a depth of six inches. The soil, where the clover was good, may be distinguished
from the other, by being marked as No. 1, and that where it was bad, as No. 2.

CLOVER-SOIL NO. 1. (GOOD CLOVER).

“The roots having first been shaken out to free them as much as possible from the soil, were
then washed once or twice with cold distilled water, and, after having been dried for a little
while in the sun, were weighed, when the square yard produced 1 lb. 10½ oz. of cleaned clover-roots,
in an air-dry state; an acre of land, or 4,840 square yards, accordingly yielded, in a depth
of six inches, 3.44 tons, or 3½ tons in round numbers, of clover-roots.

“Fully dried in a water-bath, the roots were found to contain altogether 44.67 per cent of
water, and on being burnt in a platinum capsule, yielded 6.089 of ash. A portion of the dried,
finely powdered and well mixed roots, was burned with soda lime, in a combustion tube, and
the nitrogen contained in the roots otherwise determined in the usual way. Accordingly, the
following is the general composition of the roots from the soil No. 1:

  Water                                 44.675
  Organic matter*                       49.236
  Mineral matter                         6.089
                                       -------
                                       100.000
                                       =======
       * Containing nitrogen             1.297
         Equal to ammonia                1.575

“Assuming the whole field to have produced 3½ tons of clover-roots, per acre, there will be
99.636 lbs., or in round numbers, 100 lbs. of nitrogen in the clover-roots from one acre; or,
about twice as much nitrogen as is present in the average produce of an acre of wheat.”

“That is a remarkable fact,” said the Deacon, “as I understand nitrogen is the great thing
needed by wheat, and yet the roots alone of the clover, contain twice as much nitrogen as an
average crop of wheat. Go on Charley, it is quite interesting.”

“The soil,” continues Dr. Vœlcker, “which had been separated from the roots, was passed through
a sieve to deprive it of any stones it might contain. It was then partially dried, and the
nitrogen in it determined in the usual manner, by combustion with soda-lime, when it yielded
.313 per cent of nitrogen, equal to .38 of ammonia, in one combustion; and .373 per cent of
nitrogen, equal to .46 of ammonia, in a second determination.

“That the reader may have some idea of the character of this soil, it may be stated, that it
was further submitted to a general analysis, according to which, it was found to have the following
composition:

  General Composition of Soil, No. 1. (Good Clover).

  Moisture                                               18.73
  Organic matter*                                         9.72
  Oxide of iron and alumina                              13.24
  Carbonate of lime                                       8.82
  Magnesia, alkalies, etc.                                1.72
  Insoluble silicious matter, (chiefly clay)             47.77
                                                       -------
                                                        100.00
                                                       =======
  * Containing nitrogen                                .313
     Equal to ammonia                                  .380

“The second square yard from the brow of the hill, where the clover was bad, produced 13 ounces
of air-dry, and partially clean roots, or 1.75 tons per acre. On analysis, they were found
to have the following composition:

  Clover-Roots, No. 2. (Bad Clover).

  Water                            55.732
  Organic matter*                  39.408
  Mineral matter, (ash)             4.860
                                  -------
                                  100.000
                                  =======
        * Containing nitrogen    .792
          Equal to ammonia       .901

“The roots on the spot where the clover was very bad, yielded only 31 lbs. of nitrogen per
acre, or scarcely one-third of the quantity which was obtained from the roots where the clover
was good.

“The soil from the second square yard, on analysis, was found, when freed from stones by sifting,
to contain in 100 parts:

  Composition of Soil, No. 2. (Bad Clover).

  Water                           17.24
  Organic matter*                  9.64
  Oxide of iron and alumina       11.89
  Carbonate of lime               14.50
  Magnesia, alkalies, etc.         1.53
  Insoluble silicious matter      45.20
                                -------
                                 100.00
                                =======
                                                2d
                                              determination.
        * Containing nitrogen       .306           .380
          Equal to ammonia          .370           .470

“Both portions of the clover-soil thus contained about the same percentage of organic matter,
and yielded nearly the same amount of nitrogen.

“In addition, however, to the nitrogen in the clover-roots, a good deal of nitrogen, in the
shape of root-fibres, decayed leaves, and similar organic matters, was disseminated throughout
the fine soil in which it occurred, and from which it could not be separated; but unfortunately,
I neglected to weigh the soil from a square yard, and am, therefore, unable to state how much
nitrogen per acre was present in the shape of small root-fibres and other organic matters.

“Before mentioning the details of the experiments made in the next season, I will here give
the composition of the ash of the partially cleaned clover-roots:

  Composition Of Ash Of Clover-Roots, (Partially Cleaned).

  Oxide of iron and alumina              11.73
  Lime                                   18.49
  Magnesia                                3.03
  Potash                                  6.88
  Soda                                    1.93
  Phosphoric acid                         3.61
  Sulphuric acid                          2.24
  Soluble silica                         19.01
  Insoluble silicious matter             24.83
  Carbonic acid, chlorine, and loss       8.25
                                        ------
                                        100.00
                                        ======

“This ash was obtained from clover-roots, which yielded, when perfectly dry, in round numbers,
eight per cent of ash. Clover-roots, washed quite clean, and separated from all soil, yield
about five per cent of ash; but it is extremely difficult to clean a large quantity of fibrous
roots from all dirt, and the preceding analysis distinctly shows, that the ash of the clover-roots,
analyzed by me, was mechanically mixed with a good deal of fine soil, for oxide of iron, and
alumina, and insoluble silicious matter in any quantity, are not normal constituents of plant-ashes.
Making allowance for soil contamination, the ash of clover-roots, it will be noticed, contains
much lime and potash, as well as an appreciable amount of phosphoric and sulphuric acid. On
the decay of the clover-roots, these and other mineral fertilizing matters are left in the
surface-soil in a readily available condition, and in considerable proportions, when the clover
stands well. Although a crop of clover removes much mineral matter from the soil, it must be
borne in mind, that its roots extract from the land, soluble mineral fertilizing matters, which,
on the decay of the roots, remain in the land in a prepared and more readily available form,
than that in which they originally occur. The benefits arising to wheat, from the growth of
clover, may thus be due partly to this preparation and concentration of mineral food in the
surface-soil.

“The clover on the hillside field, on the whole, turned out a very good crop; and, as the plant
stood the winter well, and this field was left another season in clover, without being plowed
up, I availed myself of the opportunity of making, during the following season, a number of
experiments similar to those of the preceding year. This time, however, I selected for examination,
a square yard of soil, from a spot on the brow of the hill, where the clover was thin, and
the soil itself stony at a depth of four inches; and another plot of one square yard at the
bottom of the hill, from a place where the clover was stronger than that on the brow of the
hill, and the soil at a depth of six inches contained no large stones.

SOIL NO. 1. (CLOVER THIN), ON THE BROW OF THE HILL.

“The roots in a square yard, six inches deep, when picked out by hand, and cleaned as much
as possible, weighed, in their natural state, 2 lbs. 11 oz.; and when dried on the top of a
water-bath, for the purpose of getting them brittle and fit for reduction into fine powder,
1 lb. 12 oz. 31 grains. In this state they were submitted as before to analysis, when they
yielded in 100 parts:

  Composition Of Clover-Roots, No. 1, (From Brow Of Hill).

  Moisture                             4.34
  Organic matter*                     26.53
  Mineral matter                      69.13
                                     -------
                                     100.00
                                     =======
        * Containing nitrogen       .816
          Equal to ammonia          .991

“According to these data, an acre of land will yield three tons 12 cwts. of nearly dry clover-roots,
and in this quantity there will be about 66 lbs. of nitrogen. The whole of the soil from which
the roots have been picked out, was passed through a half-inch sieve. The stones left in the
sieve weighed 141 lbs.; the soil which passed through weighing 218 lbs.

“The soil was next dried by artificial heat, when the 218 lbs. became reduced to 185.487 lbs.

“In this partially dried state it contained:

  Moisture                                   4.21
  Organic matter*                            9.78
  Mineral matter†                           86.01
                                           -------
                                           100.00
                                           =======
      * Containing nitrogen               .391
        Equal to ammonia                  .475
      † Including phosphoric acid         .264

“I also determined the phosphoric acid in the ash of the clover-roots. Calculated for the roots
in a nearly dry state, the phosphoric acid amounts to .287 per cent.

“An acre of soil, according to the data, furnished by the six inches on the spot where the
clover was thin, produced the following quantity of nitrogen:

                                         Ton.  Cwts.  Lbs.

  In the fine soil                        1     11     33
  In the clover-roots                     0      0     66
                                         --     --     --
    Total quantity of nitrogen per acre   1     11     99
                                         ==     ==     ==

“The organic matter in an acre of this soil, which can not be picked out by hand, it will be
seen, contains an enormous quantity of nitrogen; and although, probably, the greater part of
the roots and other remains from the clover-crop may not be decomposed so thoroughly as to
yield nitrogenous food to the succeeding wheat-crop, it can scarcely be doubted that a considerable
quantity of nitrogen will become available by the time the wheat is sown, and that one of the
chief reasons why clover benefits the succeeding wheat-crop, is to be found in the abundant
supply of available nitrogenous food furnished by the decaying clover-roots and leaves.

CLOVER-SOIL NO. 2, FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE HILL. (GOOD CLOVER.)

“A square yard of the soil from the bottom of the hill, where the clover was stronger than
on the brow of the hill, produced 2 lbs. 8 oz. of fresh clover-roots; or 1 lb. 11 oz. 47 grains
of partially dried roots; 61 lbs. 9 oz. of limestones, and 239.96 lbs. of nearly dry soil.

“The partially dried roots contained:

  Moisture                             5.06
  Organic matter*                     31.94
  Mineral matter                      63.00
                                     -------
                                     100.00
                                     =======
        * Containing nitrogen       .804

“An acre of this soil, six inches deep, produced 3 tons, 7 cwts. 65 lbs. of clover-roots, containing
61 lbs. of nitrogen; that is, there was very nearly the same quantity of roots and nitrogen
in them, as that furnished in the soil from the brow of the hill.

“The roots, moreover, yielded .365 per cent of phosphoric acid; or, calculated per acre, 27 lbs.

“In the partially dried soil, I found:

  Moisture                              4.70
  Organic matter*                      10.87
  Mineral matter†                      84.43
                                      -------
                                      100.00
                                      =======
        * Containing nitrogen            .405
          Equal to ammonia               .491
        † Including phosphoric acid      .321

“According to these determinations, an acre of soil from the bottom of the hill, contains:

                                               Tons  Cwts.  Lbs.
  Nitrogen in the organic matter of the soil     2      2     0
  Nitrogen in clover-roots of the soil           0      0    61
                                                ---    ---  ---
  Total amount of nitrogen per acre              2      2    61
                                                ===    ===  ===

“Compared with the amount of nitrogen in the soil from the brow of the hill, about 11 cwt.
more nitrogen was obtained in the soil and roots from the bottom of the hill, where the clover
was more luxuriant.

“The increased amount of nitrogen occurred in fine root-fibres and other organic matters of
the soil, and not in the coarser bits of roots which were picked out by the hand.

“The soils for the next experiments, were kindly supplied to me, in 1866, by Robert Valentine,
of Burcott Lodge, who also sent me some notes respecting the growth and yield of clover-hay
and seed on this soil.

“Foreign seed, at the rate of 12 lbs. per acre, was sown with a crop of wheat, which yielded
five quarters per acre the previous year.

“The first crop of clover was cut down on the 25th of June, 1866, and carried on June 30th.
The weather was very warm, from the time of cutting until the clover was carted, the thermometer
standing at 80 Fahr. every day. The clover was turned in the swath, on the second day after
it was cut; on the fourth day, it was turned over and put into small heaps of about 10 lbs.
each; and on the fifth day, these were collected into larger cocks, and then stacked.

“The best part of an 11-acre field, produced nearly three tons of clover-hay, sun-dried, per
acre; the whole field yielding on an average, 2½ tons per acre. This result was obtained by
weighing the stack three months after the clover was carted. The second crop was cut on the
21st of August, and carried on the 27th, the weight being nearly 30 cwt. of hay per acre. Thus
the two cuttings produced just about four tons of clover-hay per acre.

“The 11 acres were divided into two parts. About one-half was mown for hay a second time, and
the other part left for seed. The produce of the second half of the 11-acre field, was cut
on the 8th of October, and carried on the 10th. It yielded in round numbers, 3 cwt. of clover-seed
per acre, the season being very unfavorable for clover-seed. The second crop of clover, mown
for hay, was rather too ripe, and just beginning to show seed.

“A square foot of soil, 18 inches deep, was dug from the second portion of the land which produced
the clover-hay and clover-seed.

SOIL FROM PART OF 11-ACRE FIELD TWICE MOWN FOR HAY.

“The upper six inches of soil, one foot square, contained all the main
roots of 18 strong plants; the next six inches, only small root fibres,
and in the third section, a six-inch slice cut down at a depth of 12
inches from the surface, no distinct fibres could be found. The soil was
almost completely saturated with rain when it was dug up on the 13th of
September, 1866:
                                                          Lbs.
  The upper six inches of soil, one foot square, weighed   60
  The second       ”              ”          ”             61
  The third        ”              ”          ”             63

“These three portions of one foot of soil, 18 inches deep, were dried nearly completely, and
weighed again; when the first six inches weighed 51¼ lbs.; the second six inches, 51 lbs. 5
oz.; and the third section, 54 lbs. 2 oz.

“The first six inches contained 3 lbs. of silicious stones, (flints), which were rejected in
preparing a sample for analysis; in the two remaining sections there were no large sized stones.
The soils were pounded down, and passed through a wire sieve.

“The three layers of soil, dried and reduced to powder, were mixed together, and a prepared
average sample, when submitted to analysis, yielded the following results:

  Composition of Clover-Soil, 18 Inches Deep, From Part of 11-Acre
  Field, Twice Mown for Hay.

                       {Organic matter                        5.86
                       {Oxides of iron                        6.83
                       {Alumina                               7.12
                       {Carbonate of lime                     2.13
  Soluble in           {Magnesia                              2.01
    hydrochloric acid. {Potash                                 .67
                       {Soda                                   .08
                       {Chloride of sodium                     .02
                       {Phosphoric acid                        .18
                       {Sulphuric acid                         .17

                       {Insoluble silicious matter, 74.61.
                       {  Consisting of:
                       {Alumina                               4.37
                       {Lime, (in a state of silicate)        4.07
  Insoluble in acid    {Magnesia                               .46
                       {Potash                                 .19
                       {Soda                                   .23
                       {Silica                               65.29
                                                             -----
                                                             99.68
                                                             =====

“This soil, it will be seen, contained, in appreciable quantities, not only potash and phosphoric
acid, but all the elements of fertility which enter into the composition of good arable land.
It may be briefly described as a stiff clay soil, containing a sufficiency of lime, potash,
and phosphoric acid, to meet all the requirements of the clover-crop. Originally, rather unproductive,
it has been much, improved by deep culture; by being smashed up into rough clods, early in
autumn, and by being exposed in this state to the crumbling effects of the air, it now yields
good corn and forage crops.

“In separate portions of the three layers of soil, the proportions of nitrogen and phosphoric
acid contained in each layer of six inches, were determined and found to be as follows:

                                     Soil dried at 212 deg. Fahr.

                                     1st six   2d six    3d six
                                     inches.   inches.   inches.
  Percentage of phosphoric acid        .249      .134      .172
  Nitrogen                            1.62       .092      .064
  Equal to ammonia                     .198      .112      .078

“In the upper six inches, as will be seen, the percentage of both phosphoric acid and nitrogen,
was larger than in the two following layers, while the proportion of nitrogen in the six inches
of surface soil, was much larger than in the next six inches; and in the third section, containing
no visible particles of root-fibres, only very little nitrogen occurred.

“In their natural state, the three layers of soil contained:

                                     1st six    2d six     3d six
                                     inches.    inches.    inches.
  Moisture                            17.16      18.24     16.62
  Phosphoric acid                       .198       .109      .143
  Nitrogen                              .134       .075      .053
  Equal to ammonia                      .162       .091      .064
                                       Lbs.       Lbs.      Lbs.
  Weight of one foot square of soil     60         61        63

“Calculated per acre, the absolute weight of one acre of this land, six inches deep, weighs:

                                Lbs.
  1st six inches              2,613,600
  2d six inches               2,657,160
  3d six inches               2,746,280
                              =========

“No great error, therefore, will be made, if we assume in the subsequent calculations, that
six inches of this soil weighs two and one-half millions of pounds per acre.

“An acre of land, according to the preceding determinations, contains:

                                     1st six    2d six    3d six
                                     inches,    inches,   inches,
                                      Lbs.      Lbs.      Lbs.
  Phosphoric acid                     4,950     2,725     3,575
  Nitrogen                            3,350     1,875     1,325
  Equal to ammonia                    4,050     2,275     1,600
                                      =====     =====     =====

“The proportion of phosphoric acid in six inches of surface soil, it will be seen, amounted
to about two-tenths per cent; a proportion of the whole soil, so small that it may appear insufficient
for the production of a good corn-crop. However, when calculated to the acre, we find that
six inches of surface soil in an acre of land, actually contain over two tons of phosphoric
acid. An average crop of wheat, assumed to be 25 bushels of grain, at 60 lbs. per bushel, and
3,000 lbs. of straw, removes from the land on which it is grown, 20 lbs. of phosphoric acid.
The clover-soil analyzed by me, consequently contains an amount of phosphoric acid in a depth
of only six inches, which is equal to that present in 247½ average crops of wheat; or supposing
that, by good cultivation and in favorable seasons, the average yield of wheat could be doubled,
and 50 bushels of grain, at 60 lbs. a bushel, and 6,000 lbs. of straw could be raised, 124
of such heavy wheat-crops would contain no more phosphoric acid than actually occurred in six
inches of this clover-soil per acre.

“The mere presence of such an amount of phosphoric acid in a soil, however, by no means proves
its sufficiency for the production of so many crops of wheat; for, in the first place, it can
not be shown that the whole of the phosphoric acid found by analysis, occurs in the soil in
a readily available combination; and, in the second place, it is quite certain that the root-fibres
of the wheat-plant can not reach and pick up, so to speak, every particle of phosphoric acid,
even supposing it to occur in the soil in a form most conducive to ‘ready assimilation by the
plant.’

“The calculation is not given in proof of a conclusion which would be manifestly absurd, but
simply as an illustration of the enormous quantity in an acre of soil six inches deep, of a
constituent forming the smaller proportions of the whole weight of an acre of soil of that
limited depth. It shows the existence of a practically unlimited amount of the most important
mineral constituents of plants, and clearly points out the propriety of rendering available
to plants, the natural resources of the soil in plant-food; to draw, in fact, up the mineral
wealth of the soil, by thoroughly working the land, and not leaving it unutilized as so much
dead capital.”

“Good,” said the Deacon, “that is the right doctrine.”

“The roots,” continues Dr. Vœlcker, “from one square foot of soil were cleaned as much as possible,
dried completely at 212°, and in that state weighed 240 grains. An acre consequently contained
1,493½ lbs. of dried clover-roots.

“The clover-roots contained, dried at 212° Fahr.,

  Organic matter*                         81.33
  Mineral matter,† (ash)                  18.67
                                         ------
                                         100.00
                                         ======
        * Yielding nitrogen               1.635
          Equal to ammonia                1.985
        † Including insoluble silicious
            matter, (clay and sand)      11.67

“Accordingly the clover-roots in an acre of land furnished 24½ lbs. of nitrogen. We have thus:

                                                Lbs. of
                                                nitrogen
  In the six inches of surface soil               3,350
  In large clover-roots                              24½
  In second six inches of soil                    1,875
                                                ---------
  Total amount of nitrogen in one acre of
      soil 12 inches deep                         5,249½
  Equal to ammonia                                6,374½
                                                =========

Or in round numbers, two tons six cwt. of nitrogen per acre; an enormous quantity, which must
have a powerful influence in encouraging the luxuriant development of the succeeding wheat-crop,
although only a fraction of the total amount of nitrogen in the clover remains may become sufficiently
decomposed in time to be available to the young wheat-plants.

CLOVER-SOIL FROM PART OF 11-ACRE FIELD OF BURCOTT LODGE FARM, LEIGHTON BUZZARD, ONCE MOWN FOR
HAY, AND LEFT AFTERWARDS FOR SEED.

“Produce 2½ tons of clover-hay, and 3 cwt. of seed per acre.

“This soil was obtained within a distance of five yards from the part of the field where the
soil was dug up after the two cuttings of hay. After the seed there was some difficulty in
finding a square foot containing the same number of large clover-roots, as that on the field
twice mown; however, at last, in the beginning of November, a square foot containing exactly
18 strong roots, was found and dug up to a depth of 18 inches. The soil dug after the seed
was much drier than that dug after the two cuttings of hay:

  The upper six inches deep, one foot square, weighed    56 lbs.
  The next      ”               ”                ”       58  ”
  The third     ”               ”                ”       60  ”
                                                         =======

“After drying by exposure to hot air, the three layers of soil weighed:

  The upper six inches, one foot square    49¾ lbs.
  The next      ”               ”          50½     ”
  The third     ”               ”          51¼     ”
                                           ===========

“Equal portions of the dried soil from each six-inch section were mixed together and reduced
to a fine powder. An average sample thus prepared, on analysis, was found to have the following
composition:

  Composition of Clover-Soil Once Mown for Hay, and Afterwards Left for
  Seed. Dried at 212° Fahr.

                     { Organic matter                   5.34
                     { Oxides of iron                   6.07
                     { Alumina                          4.51
                     { Carbonate of lime                7.51
  Soluble in         { Magnesia                         1.27
   hydrochloric Acid { Potash                            .52
                     { Soda                              .16
                     { Chloride of sodium                .03
                     { Phosphoric acid                   .15
                     { Sulphuric acid                    .19

                    { Insoluble silicious matter,
                    {   73.84. Consisting of:
                    { Alumina                           4.14
                    { Lime (in a state of silicate)     2.69
  Insoluble in acid { Magnesia                           .68
                    { Potash                             .24
                    { Soda                               .21
                    { Silica                           65.88
                                                       -----
                                                       99.59
                                                       =====

“The soil, it will be seen, in general character, resembles the preceding sample; it contains
a good deal of potash and phosphoric acid, and may be presumed to be well suited to the growth
of clover. It contains more carbonate of lime, and is somewhat lighter than the sample from
the part of the field twice mown for hay, and may be termed heavy calcareous clay.

“An acre of this land, 18 inches deep, weighed, when very nearly dry:

                               Lbs.
  Surface, six inches        2,407,900
  Next        ”              2,444,200
  Third       ”              2,480,500

“Or in round numbers, every six inches of soil weighed per acre 2½ millions of pounds, which
agrees tolerably well with the actual weight per acre of the preceding soil.

“The amount of phosphoric acid and nitrogen in each six-inch layer was
determined separately, as before, when the following results were
obtained:
                            In Dried Soil.

                                  First six   Second        Third six
                                  inches.     six inches.   inches. The first six inches of soil, it
will be seen, contained in round numbers, 2½ tons of nitrogen per acre,
that is, considerably more than was found in the same section of the
soil where the clover was mown twice for hay; showing plainly, that
during the ripening of the clover seed, the surface is much enriched by
the nitrogenous matter in the dropping leaves of the clover-plant.

“Clover-roots.--The roots from one square foot of this soil, freed as much as possible from
adhering soil, were dried at 212°, and when weighed and reduced to a fine powder, gave, on
analysis, the following results:

  Organic matter*                        64.76
  Mineral matter†                        35.24
                                       -------
                                        100.00
                                       =======
    * Containing nitrogen                 1.702
      Equal to ammonia                    2.066
    † Including clay and sand
       (insoluble silicious matter)      26.04

“A square foot of this soil produced 582 grains of dried clover-roots, consequently an acre
yielded 3,622 lbs. of roots, or more than twice the weight of roots obtained from the soil
of the same field where the clover was twice mown for hay.

“In round numbers, the 3,622 lbs. of clover-roots from the land mown once, and afterwards left
for seed, contained 51½ lbs. of nitrogen.

“The roots from the soil after clover-seed, it will be noticed, were not so clean as the preceding
sample, nevertheless, they yielded more nitrogen. In 64.76 of organic matter, we have here
1.702 of nitrogen, whereas, in the case of the roots from the part of the field where the clover
was twice mown for hay, we have in 81.33 parts, that is, much more organic matter, and 1.635,
or rather less of nitrogen. It is evident, therefore, that the organic matter in the soil after
clover-seed, occurs in a more advanced stage of decomposition, than found in the clover-roots
from the part of the field twice mown. In the manure, in which the decay of such and similar
organic remains proceeds, much of the non-nitrogenous, or carbonaceous matters, of which these
remains chiefly, though not entirely, consist, is transformed into gaseous carbonic acid, and
what remains behind, becomes richer in nitrogen and mineral matters. A parallel case, showing
the dissipation of carbonaceous matter, and the increase in the percentage of nitrogen and
mineral matter in what is left behind, is presented to us in fresh and rotten dung; in long
or fresh dung, the percentage of organic matter, consisting chiefly of very imperfectly decomposed
straw, being larger, and that of nitrogen and mineral matter smaller, than in well-rotted dung.

“The roots from the field after clover-seed, it will be borne in mind, were dug up in November,
whilst those obtained from the land twice mown, were dug up in September; the former, therefore,
may be expected to be in a more advanced state of decay than the latter, and richer in nitrogen.

“In an acre of soil, after clover-seed, we have:

                                                 Lbs.
  Nitrogen in first six inches of soil          4,725
  Nitrogen in roots                                51½
  Nitrogen in second six inches of soil         3,350
                                                -------
    Total amount of nitrogen, per acre, in
      twelve inches of soil                     8,126½
                                                =======

“Equal to ammonia, 9,867 lbs.: or, in round numbers, 3 tons and 12½ cwts. of nitrogen per acre;
equal to 4 tons 8 cwts. of ammonia.

“This is a very much larger amount of nitrogen than occurred in the other soil, and shows plainly
that the total amount of nitrogen accumulates especially in the surface-soil, when clover is
grown for seed; thus explaining intelligibly, as it appears to me, why wheat, as stated by
many practical men, succeeds better on land where clover is grown for seed, than where it is
mown for hay.

“All the three layers of the soil, after clover-seed, are richer in nitrogen than the same
sections of the soil where the clover was twice mown, as will be seen by the following comparative
statement of results:

  --------------+--------------------------+--------------------------
                |           I.             |            II.
                |    Clover-Soil twice     |  Clover-Soil once mown
                |        mown.             |  and then left for seed.

  Percentage of Nitrogen Per Acre.

                               First six  Second       Third six
                               inches.    six inches.  inches.
                               Lbs.       Lbs.         Lbs.
   I. In soil, clover twice  }
         mown*               } 3,350      1,875        1,325
  II. In soil, clover once   }
        mown and seeded      }
        afterwards†          } 4,725      3,350        2,225
                               =====      =====        =====
     Equal to ammonia:
     *  I. Clover twice mown } 4,050      2,275        1,600
     † II. Clover seeded     } 5,725      4,050        2,700

                                                     Lbs.
   I. Nitrogen in roots of clover twice mown      }    24½
  II. Nitrogen in clover, once mown, and grown    }
      for seed afterwards                         }    51½
   I. Weight of dry roots per acre from Soil I    } 1,493½
  II.

“Reasons are given in the beginning of this paper which it is hoped will have convinced the
reader, that the fertility of land is not so much measured by the amount of ash constituents
of plants which it contains, as by the amount of nitrogen, which, together with an excess of
such ash constituents, it contains in an available form. It has been shown likewise, that the
removal from the soil of a large amount of mineral matter in a good clover-crop, in conformity
with many direct field experiments, is not likely in any degree to affect the wheat-crop, and
that the yield of wheat on soils under ordinary cultivation, according to the experience of
many farmers, and the direct and numerous experiments of Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert, rises or
falls, other circumstances being equal, with the supply of available nitrogenous food which
is given to the wheat. This being the case, we can not doubt that the benefits arising from
the growth of clover to the succeeding wheat, are mainly due to the fact that an immense amount
of nitrogenous food accumulates in the soil during the growth of clover.

“This accumulation of nitrogenous plant-food, specially useful to cereal crops, is, as shown
in the preceding experiments, much greater when clover is grown for seed, than when it is made
into hay. This affords an intelligible explanation of a fact long observed by good practical
men, although denied by others who decline to accept their experience as resting upon trustworthy
evidence, because, as they say, land cannot become more fertile when a crop is grown upon it
for seed, which is carried off, than when that crop is cut down and the produce consumed on
the land. The chemical points brought forward in the course of this inquiry, show plainly that
mere speculation as to what can take place in a soil, and what not, do not much advance the
true theory of certain agricultural practices. It is only by carefully investigating subjects
like the one under consideration, that positive proofs are given, showing the correctness of
intelligent observers in the fields. Many years ago, I made a great many experiments relative
to the chemistry of farm-yard manure, and then showed, amongst other particulars, that manure,
spread at once on the land, need not there and then be plowed in, inasmuch as neither a broiling
sun, nor a sweeping and drying wind will cause the slightest loss of ammonia; and that, therefore,
the old-fashioned farmer who carts his manure on the land as soon as he can, and spreads it
at once, but who plows it in at his convenience, acts in perfect accordance with correct chemical
principles involved in the management of farm-yard manure. On the present occasion, my main
object has been to show, not merely by reasoning on the subject, but by actual experiments,
that the larger the amounts of nitrogen, potash, soda, lime, phosphoric acid, etc., which are
removed from the land in a clover-crop, the better it is, nevertheless, made thereby for producing
in the succeeding year an abundant crop of wheat, other circumstances being favorable to its
growth.

“Indeed, no kind of manure can be compared in point of efficacy for wheat, to the manuring
which the land gets in a really good crop of clover. The farmer who wishes to derive the full
benefit from his clover-lay, should plow it up for wheat as soon as possible in the autumn,
and leave it in a rough state as long as is admissible, in order that the air may find free
access into the land, and the organic remains left in so much abundance in a good crop of clover
be changed into plant-food; more especially, in other words, in order that the crude nitrogenous
organic matter in the clover-roots and decaying leaves, may have time to become transformed
into ammoniacal compounds, and these, in the course of time, into nitrates, which I am strongly
inclined to think is the form in which nitrogen is assimilated, par excellence by cereal crops,
and in which, at all events, it is more efficacious than in any other state of combination
wherein it may be used as a fertilizer.

“When the clover-lay is plowed up early, the decay of the clover is sufficiently advanced by
the time the young wheat-plant stands in need of readily available nitrogenous food, and this
being uniformly distributed through the whole of the cultivated soil, is ready to benefit every
single plant. This equal and abundant distribution of food, peculiarly valuable to cereals,
is a great advantage, and speaks strongly in favor of clover as a preparatory crop for wheat.

“Nitrate of soda, an excellent spring top-dressing for wheat and cereals in general, in some
seasons fails to produce as good an effect as in others. In very dry springs, the rainfall
is not sufficient to wash it properly into the soil and to distribute it equally, and in very
wet seasons it is apt to be washed either into the drains or into a stratum of the soil not
accessible to the roots of the young wheat. As, therefore, the character of the approaching
season can not usually be predicted, the application of nitrate of soda to wheat is always
attended with more or less uncertainty.

“The case is different, when a good crop of clover-hay has been obtained from the land on which
wheat is intended to be grown afterwards. An enormous quantity of nitrogenous organic matter,
as we have seen, is left in the land after the removal of the clover-crop; and these remains
gradually decay and furnish ammonia, which at first and during the colder months of the year,
is retained by the well known absorbing properties which all good wheat-soils possess. In spring,
when warmer weather sets in, and the wheat begins to make a push, these ammonia compounds in
the soil are by degrees oxidized into nitrates; and as this change into food peculiarly favorable
to young cereal plants, proceeds slowly but steadily, we have in the soil itself, after clover,
a source from which nitrates are continuously produced; so that it does not much affect the
final yield of wheat, whether heavy rains remove some or all of the nitrate present in the
soil. The clover remains thus afford a more continuous source from which nitrates are produced,
and greater certainty for a good crop of wheat than when recourse is had to nitrogenous top-dressings
in the spring.

SUMMARY.

“The following are some of the chief points of interest which I have endeavored fully to develope
in the preceding pages:

“1. A good crop of clover removes from the soil more potash, phosphoric acid, lime, and other
mineral matters, which enter into the composition of the ashes of our cultivated crops, than
any other crop usually grown in this country.

“2. There is fully three times as much nitrogen in a crop of clover as in the average produce
of the grain and straw of wheat per acre.

“3. Notwithstanding the large amount of nitrogenous matter and of ash-constituents of plants,
in the produce of an acre, clover is an excellent preparatory crop for wheat.

“4. During the growth of clover, a large amount of nitrogenous matter accumulates in the soil.

“5. This accumulation, which is greatest in the surface soil, is due to decaying leaves dropped
during the growth of clover, and to an abundance of roots, containing, when dry, from one and
three-fourths to two per cent of nitrogen.

“6. The clover-roots are stronger and more numerous, and more leaves fall on the ground when
clover is grown for seed, than when it is mown for hay; in consequence, more nitrogen is left
after clover-seed, than after hay, which accounts for wheat yielding a better crop after clover-seed
than after hay.

“7. The development of roots being checked, when the produce, in a green condition, is fed
off by sheep, in all probability, leaves still less nitrogenous matter in the soil than when
clover is allowed to get riper and is mown for hay; thus, no doubt, accounting for the observation
made by practical men, that, notwithstanding the return of the produce in the sheep excrements,
wheat is generally stronger, and yields better, after clover mown for hay, than when the clover
is fed off green by sheep.

“8. The nitrogenous matters in the clover remains, on their gradual decay, are finally transformed
into nitrates, thus affording a continuous source of food on which cereal crops specially delight
to grow.

“9. There is strong presumptive evidence that the nitrogen which exists in the air, in shape
of ammonia and nitric acid, and descends, in these combinations, with the rain which falls
on the ground, satisfies, under ordinary circumstances, the requirements of the clover-crop.
This crop causes a large accumulation of nitrogenous matters, which are gradually changed in
the soil into nitrates. The atmosphere thus furnishes nitrogenous food to the succeeding wheat
indirectly, and, so to say, gratis.

“10. Clover not only provides abundance of nitrogenous food, but delivers this food in a readily
available form (as nitrates), more gradually and continuously, and, consequently, with more
certainty of a good result, than such food can be applied to the land in the shape of nitrogenous
spring top-dressings.”

“Thank you Charley,” said the Doctor, “that is the most remarkable paper I ever listened to.
I do not quite know what to think of it. We shall have to examine it carefully.”

“The first three propositions in the Summary,” said I, “are unquestionably true. Proposition
No. 4, is equally true, but we must be careful what meaning we attach to the word ‘accumulate.’
The idea is, that clover gathers up the nitrogen in the soil. It does not increase the absolute
amount of nitrogen. It accumulates it--brings it together.

“Proposition No. 5, will not be disputed; and I think we may accept No. 6, also, though we
can not be sure that allowing clover to go to seed, had anything to do with the increased quantity
of clover-roots.

“Proposition No. 7, may or may not be true. We have no proof, only a ‘probability;’ and the
same may be said in regard to propositions Nos. 8, 9, and 10.”

The Deacon seemed uneasy. He did not like these remarks. He had got the impression, while Charley
was reading, that much more was proved than Dr. Vœlcker claims in his Summary.

“I thought,” said he, “that on the part of the field where the clover was allowed to go to
seed, Dr. Vœlcker found a great increase in the amount of nitrogen.”

“That seems to be the general impression,” said the Doctor, “but in point of fact, we have
no proof that the growth of clover, either for hay or for seed, had anything to do with the
quantity of nitrogen and phosphoric acid found in the soil. The facts given by Dr. Vœlcker,
are exceedingly interesting. Let us look at them:

“A field of 11 acres was sown to winter-wheat, and seeded down in the spring, with 13 lbs.
per acre of clover. The wheat yielded 40 bushels per acre. The next year, on the 25th of June,
the clover was mown for hay. We are told that ‘the best part of the field yielded three tons
(6,720 lbs.) of clover-hay per acre; the whole field averaging 2½ tons (5,600 lbs.) per acre.’

“We are not informed how much land there was of the ‘best part,’ but assuming that it was half
the field, the poorer part must have yielded only 4,480 lbs. of hay per acre, or only two-thirds
as much as the other. This shows that there was considerable difference in the quality or condition
of the land.

“After the field was mown for hay, it was divided into two parts: one part was mown again for
hay, August 21st, and yielded about 30 cwt. (3,360 lbs.) of hay per acre; the other half was
allowed to grow six or seven weeks longer, and was then (October 8th), cut for seed. The yield
was a little over 5½ bushels of seed per acre. Whether the clover allowed to grow for seed,
was on the richer or poorer half of the field, we are not informed.

“Dr. Vœlcker then analyzed the soil. That from the part of the field mown twice for hay, contained
per acre:

                    First six   Second six   Third six   Total, 18
                    inches.     inches.      inches.    inches deep. On the
part mown twice for hay, the roots contained per acre 24½ lbs. of
nitrogen. On the part mown once for hay, and then for seed, the roots
contained 51½ lbs. of nitrogen per acre.”

“Now,” said the Doctor, “these facts are very interesting, but there is no sort of evidence
tending to show that the clover has anything to do with increasing or decreasing the quantity
of nitrogen or phosphoric acid found in the soil.”

“There was more clover-roots per acre, where the clover was allowed to go to seed. But that
may be because the soil happened to be richer on this part of the field. There was, in the
first six inches of the soil, 3,350 lbs. of nitrogen per acre, on one-half of the field, and
4,725 lbs. on the other half; and it is not at all surprising that on the latter half there
should be a greater growth of clover and clover-roots. To account in this way for the 1,375
lbs. of nitrogen, we should have to suppose that the clover-plants, in going to seed, shed
one hundred tons of dry clover-leaves per acre! The truth of the matter seems to be, that the
part of the field on which the clover was allowed to go to seed, was naturally much richer
than the other part, and consequently produced a greater growth of clover and clover-roots.”

We can not find anything in these experiments tending to show that we can make land rich by
growing clover and selling the crop. The analyses of the soil show that in the first eighteen
inches of the surface-soil, there was 6,550 lbs. of nitrogen per acre, on one part of the field,
and 10,300 lbs. on the other part. The clover did not create this nitrogen, or bring it from
the atmosphere. The wheat with which the clover was seeded down, yielded 40 bushels per acre.
If the field had been sown to wheat again, it probably would not have yielded over 25 bushels
per acre--and that for want of available nitrogen. And yet the clover got nitrogen enough for
over four tons of clover-hay; or as much nitrogen as a crop of wheat of 125 bushels per acre,
and 7½ tons of straw would remove from the land.

Now what does this prove? There was, in 18 inches of the soil on the poorest part of the field,
6,550 lbs. of nitrogen per acre. A crop of wheat of 50 bushels per acre, and twice that weight
of straw, would require about 92 lbs. of nitrogen. But the wheat can not get this amount from
the soil, while the clover can get double the quantity. And the only explanation I can give,
is, that the clover-roots can take up nitrogen from a weaker solution in the soil than wheat-roots
can.

“These experiments of Dr. Vœlcker,” said I, “give me great encouragement. After they have got
their land rich, by good cultivation, and the liberal use of animal and artificial manures,
they may expect a good crop of wheat from the roots of the clover. But they take good care
to feed out the clover itself on the farm, in connection with turnips and oil-cake, and thus
make rich manure.

And so it is in this country. Much as we hear about the value of clover for manure, even those
who extol it the highest do not depend upon it alone for bringing up and maintaining the fertility
of their farms. The men who raise the largest crops and make the most money by farming, do
not sell clover-hay. They do not look to the roots of the clover for making a poor soil rich.
They are, to a man, good cultivators. They work their land thoroughly and kill the weeds. They
keep good stock, and feed liberally, and make good manure. They use lime, ashes, and plaster,
and are glad to draw manure from the cities and villages, and muck from the swamps, and not
a few of them buy artificial manures. In the hands of such farmers, clover is a grand renovating
crop. It gathers up the fertility of the soil, and the roots alone of a large crop, often furnish
food enough for a good crop of corn, potatoes, or wheat. But if your land was not in good heart
to start with, you would not get the large crop of clover; and if you depend on the clover-roots
alone, the time is not far distant when your large crops of clover will be things of the past.

AMOUNT OF ROOTS LEFT IN THE SOIL BY DIFFERENT CROPS.

“We have seen that Dr. Vœlcker made four separate determinations of the amount of clover-roots
left in the soil to the depth of six inches. It may be well to tabulate the figures obtained:

  Clover-Roots, in Six Inches of Soil, Per Acre.

  ------+--------------------------------+---------+---------+----------
        |                                |Air-dry  |Nitrogen |Phosphoric
        |                                |roots,   |in roots,|acid in
        |                                |per acre.|per acre.|roots,
        |                                |         |         |per acre.
  ------+--------------------------------+---------+---------+----------
        |1st Year.                       |         |         |
  No. 1.|  Good Clover from brow         |   7705  |   100   |
        |      of the hill               |         |         |
   ”  2.|  Bad    ”     ”    ”           |   3920  |    31   |
        |       ”  ”   ”                 |         |         |
        |                                |         |         |
        |2d Year.                        |         |         |
   ”  3.|  Good Clover from bottom       |   7569  |    61   |   27
        |      of the field              |         |         |
   ”  4.|  Thin   ”     ”   brow         |   8064  |    66   |
        |      ”   ”   hill              |         |         |
        |                                |         |         |
   ”  5.|Heavy crop of first-year clover |         |         |
        |  mown twice for hay            |         |    24½  |
   ”  6.|Heavy crop of first-year clover |         |         |
        |  mown once for hay,            |         |    51½  |
        |  and then for seed             |         |         |
   ”  7.|German experiment,              |         |         |
        |  10¼ inches deep               |   8921  |   191½  |   74¾
  ------+--------------------------------+---------+---------+----------

I have not much confidence in experiments of this kind. It is so easy to make a little mistake;
and when you take only a square foot of land, as was the case with Nos. 5 and 6, the mistake
is multiplied by 43,560. Still, I give the table for what it is worth.

Nos. 1 and 2 are from a one-year-old crop of clover. The field was a calcareous clay soil.
It was somewhat hilly; or, perhaps, what we here, in Western New York, should call “rolling
land.” The soil on the brow of the hill, “was very stony at a depth of four inches, so that
it could only with difficulty be excavated to six inches, when the bare limestone-rock made
its appearance.”

A square yard was selected on this shallow soil, where the clover was good; and the roots,
air-dried, weighed at the rate of 7,705 lbs. per acre, and contained 100 lbs. of nitrogen.
A few yards distance, on the same soil, where the clover was bad, the acre of roots contained
only 31 lbs. of nitrogen per acre.

So far, so good. We can well understand this result. Chemistry has little to do with it. There
was a good stand of clover on the one plot, and a poor one on the other. And the conclusion
to be drawn from it is, that it is well worth our while to try to secure a good catch of clover.

“But, suppose,” said the Doctor, “No. 2 had happened to have been pastured by sheep, and No.
1 allowed to go to seed, what magic there would have been in the above figures!”

Nos. 3 and 4 are from the same field, the second year. No. 4 is from a square yard of thin
clover on the brow of the hill, and No. 3, from the richer, deeper land towards the bottom
of the hill.

There is very little difference between them. The roots of thin clover from the brow of the
hill, contain five lbs. more nitrogen per acre, than the roots on the deeper soil.

If we can depend on the figures, we may conclude that on our poor stony “knolls,” the clover
has larger and longer roots than on the richer parts of the field. We know that roots will
run long distances and great depths in search of food and water.

Nos. 5 and 6 are from a heavy crop of one-year-old clover. No. 5 was mown twice for hay, producing,
in the two cuttings, over four tons of hay per acre. No. 6 was in the same field, the only
difference being that the clover, instead of being cut the second time for hay, was allowed
to stand a few weeks longer to ripen its seed. You will see that the latter has more roots
than the former.

There are 24½ lbs. of nitrogen per acre in the one case, and 51½ lbs. in the other. How far
this is due to difference in the condition of the land, or to the difficulties in the way of
getting out all the roots from the square yard, is a matter of conjecture.

Truth to tell, I have very little confidence in any of these figures. It will be observed that
I have put at the bottom of the table, the result of an examination made in Germany. In this
case, the nitrogen in the roots of an acre of clover, amounted to 191½ lbs. per acre. If we
can depend on the figures, we must conclude that there were nearly eight times as much clover-roots
per acre in the German field, as in the remarkably heavy crop of clover in the English field No. 5.

“Yes,” said the Deacon, “but the one was 10¼ inches deep, and the other only six inches deep;
and besides, the German experiment includes the ‘stubble’ with the roots.”

The Deacon is right; and it will be well to give the complete table, as published in the American
Agriculturist:

  Table Showing the Amount of Roots and Stubble Left Per Acre by
  Different Crops, and the Amount of Ingredients Which They Contain
  Per Acre.

  -------------------------+---------------+------------+---------------
                           |No. of lbs. of |            |
                           |stubble & roots|            |  No. of lbs.
                           |(dry) per acre |No. of lbs. |  of ash, free
                           |to a depth of  |of Nitrogen | from carbonic
                           |10¼ inches.    | per acre.  |acid, per acre.
  -------------------------+---------------+------------+---------------
  Lucern (4 years old)     |   9,678.1     |   136.4    |   1,201.6
  Red-Clover (1 year old,) |   8,921.6     |   191.6    |   1,919.9
  Esparsette (3 years old) |   5,930.9     |   123.2    |   1,023.4
  Rye                      |   5,264.6     |    65.3    |   1,747.8
  Swedish Clover           |   5,004.3     |   102.3    |     974.6
  Rape                     |   4,477.      |    56.5    |     622.3
  Oats                     |   3,331.9     |    26.6    |   1,444.7
  Lupine                   |   3,520.9     |    62.2    |     550.
  Wheat                    |   3,476.      |    23.5    |   1,089.8
  Peas                     |   3,222.5     |    55.6    |     670.7
  Serradella               |   3,120.1     |    64.8    |     545.6
  Buckwheat                |   2,195.6     |    47.9    |     465.5
  Barley                   |   1,991.4     |    22.8    |     391.1
  -------------------------+---------------+------------+---------------

  Contents of the Ashes, in Pounds, Per Acre.

  ---------------+-------+---------+-------+-------+---------+----------
                 | Lime. |Magnesia.|Potash.| Soda. |Sulphuric|Phosphoric
                 |       |         |       |       |  Acid.  |   Acid.
  ---------------+-------+---------+-------+-------+---------+----------
  Lucern         | 197.7 |   24.2  |  36.7 |  26.4 |   18.7  |   38.5
  Red-Clover     | 262.9 |   48.4  |  58.3 |  20.0 |   26.1  |   74.8
  Esparsette     | 132.8 |   28.7  |  42.6 |  13.8 |   20.6  |   29.7
  Rye            |  73.2 |   14.3  |  31.2 |  43.3 |   11.8  |   24.4
  Swedish Clover | 136.1 |   17.6  |  25.9 |   5.7 |   13.2  |   24.2
  Rape           | 163.9 |   12.9  |  34.7 |  20.9 |   30.8  |   31.9
  Oats           |  85.5 |   11.2  |  24.8 |  18.  |    8.8  |   29.
  Lupine         |  80.5 |   11.2  |  16.5 |   3.5 |    7.   |   13.8
  Wheat          |  76.7 |   10.1  |  28.4 |  11.  |    7.4  |   11.8
  Peas           |  71.7 |   11.   |  11.2 |   7.  |    9.4  |   14.3
  Serradella     |  79.8 |   13.4  |   8.8 |   4.8 |    9.   |   18.4
  Buckwheat      |  80.  |    7.2  |   8.8 |   4.2 |    6.6  |   11.
  Barley         |  42.2 |    5.5  |   9.5 |   3.5 |    5.5  |   11.2
  ---------------+-------+---------+-------+-------+---------+----------

It may be presumed, that, while these figures are not absolutely, they are relatively, correct.
In other words, we may conclude, that red-clover leaves more nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and
potash, in the roots and stubble per acre, than any other of the crops named.

The gross amount of dry substance in the roots, and the gross amount of ash per acre, are considerably
exaggerated, owing to the evidently large quantity of dirt attached to the roots and stubble.
For instance, the gross amount of ash in Lucern is given as 1,201.6 lbs. per acre; while the
total amount of lime, magnesia, potash, soda, sulphuric and phosphoric acids, is only 342.2
lbs. per acre, leaving 859.4 lbs. as sand, clay, iron, etc. Of the 1,919.9 lbs. of ash in the
acre of clover-roots and stubble, there are 1,429.4 lbs. of sand, clay, etc. But even after
deducting this amount of impurities from a gross total of dry matter per acre, we still have
7,492.2 lbs. of dry roots and stubble per acre, or nearly 3¼ tons of dry roots per acre. This
is a very large quantity. It is as much dry matter as is contained in 13 tons of ordinary farm-yard,
or stable-manure. And these 3¼ tons of dry clover-roots contain 191½ lbs. of nitrogen, which
is as much as is contained in 19 tons of ordinary stable-manure. The clover-roots also contain
74¾ lbs. of phosphoric acid per acre, or as much as is contained in from 500 to 600 lbs. of
No. 1 rectified Peruvian guano.

“But the phosphoric acid,” said the Doctor, “is not soluble in the roots.” True, but it was
soluble when the roots gathered it up out of the soil.

“These figures,” said the Deacon, “have a very pleasant look. Those of us who have nearly one-quarter
of our land in clover every year, ought to be making our farms very rich.”

“It would seem, at any rate,” said I, “that those of us who have good, clean, well-drained,
and well-worked land, that is now producing a good growth of clover, may reasonably expect
a fair crop of wheat, barley, oats, corn, or potatoes, when we break it up and plow under all
the roots, which are equal to 13 or 19 tons of stable-manure per acre. Whether we can or can
not depend on these figures, one thing is clearly proven, both by the chemist and the farmer,
that a good clover-sod, on well-worked soil, is a good preparation for corn and potatoes.”

MANURES FOR WHEAT.

Probably nine-tenths of all the wheat grown in Western New York, or the “Genesee country,”
from the time the land was first cleared until 1870, was raised without any manure being directly
applied to the land for this crop. Tillage and clover were what the farmers depended on. There
certainly has been no systematic manuring. The manure made during the winter, was drawn out
in the spring, and plowed under for corn. Any manure made during the summer, in the yards,
was, by the best farmers, scraped up and spread on portions of the land sown, or to be sown,
with wheat. Even so good a farmer and wheat-grower as John Johnston, rarely used manure, (except
lime, and latterly, a little guano), directly for wheat. Clover and summer-fallowing were for
many years the dependence of the Western New York wheat-growers.

“One of the oldest and most experienced millers of Western New York,” remarked the Doctor,
“once told me that ‘ever since our farmers began to manure their land, the wheat-crop had deteriorated,
not only in the yield per acre, but in the quality and quantity of the flour obtained from
it.’ It seemed a strange remark to make; but when he explained that the farmers had given up
summer-fallowing and plowing in clover, and now sow spring crops, to be followed by winter
wheat with an occasional dressing of poor manure, it is easy to see how it may be true.”

“Yes,” said I, “it is not the manure that hurts the wheat, but the growth of spring crops and
weeds that rob the soil of far more plant-food than the poor, strawy manure can supply. We
do not now, really, furnish the wheat-crop as much manure or plant-food as we formerly did
when little or no manure was used, and when we depended on summer-fallowing and plowing in clover.”

We must either give up the practice of sowing a spring crop, before wheat, or we must make
more and richer manure, or we must plow in more clover. The rotation, which many of us now
adopt--corn, barley, wheat--is profitable, provided we can make our land rich enough to produce
75 bushels of shelled corn, 50 bushels of barley, and 35 bushels of wheat, per acre, in three
years.

This can be done, but we shall either require a number of acres of rich low land, or irrigated
meadow, the produce of which will make manure for the upland, or we shall have to purchase
oil-cake, bran, malt-combs, or refuse beans, to feed out with our straw and clover-hay, or
we must purchase artificial manures. Unless this is done, we must summer-fallow more, on the
heavier clay soils, sow less oats and barley; or we must, on the lighter soils, raise and plow
under more clover, or feed it out on the farm, being careful to save and apply the manure.

“Better do both,” said the Doctor.

“How?” asked the Deacon.

“You had better make all the manure you can,” continued the Doctor, “and buy artificial manures
besides.”

“The Doctor is right,” said I, “and in point of fact, our best farmers are doing this very
thing. They are making more manure and buying more manure than ever before; or, to state the
matter correctly, they are buying artificial manures; and these increase the crops, and the
extra quantity of straw, corn, and clover, so obtained, enables them to make more manure. They
get cheated sometimes in their purchases; but, on the whole, the movement is a good one, and
will result in a higher and better system of farming.”

I am amused at the interest and enthusiasm manifested by some of our farmers who have used
artificial manures for a year or two. They seem to regard me as a sad old fogy, because I am
now depending almost entirely on the manures made on the farm. Years ago, I was laughed at
because I used guano and superphosphate. It was only yesterday, that a young farmer, who is
the local agent of this neighborhood, for a manure manufacturer, remarked to me, “You have
never used superphosphate. We sowed it on our wheat last year, and could see to the very drill
mark how far it went. I would like to take your order for a ton. I am sure it would pay.”

“We are making manure cheaper than you can sell it to me,” I replied, “and besides, I do not
think superphosphate is a good manure for wheat.” --“Oh,” he exclaimed, “you would not say
so if you had ever used it.” --“Why, my dear sir,” said I, “I made tons of superphosphate,
and used large quantities of guano before you were born; and if you will come into the house,
I will show you a silver goblet I got for a prize essay on the use of superphosphate of lime,
that I wrote more than a quarter of a century ago. I sent to New York for two tons of guano,
and published the result of its use on this farm, before you were out of your cradle. And I
had a ton or more of superphosphate made for me in 1856, and some before that. I have also
used on this farm, many tons of superphosphate and other artificial manures from different
manufacturers, and one year I used 15 tons of bone-dust.”

With ready tact, he turned the tables on me by saying: “Now I can understand why your land
is improving. It is because you have used superphosphate and bone-dust. Order a few tons.”

By employing agents of this kind, the manufacturers have succeeded in selling the farmers of
Western New York thousands of tons of superphosphate. Some farmers think it pays, and some
that it does not. We are more likely to hear of the successes than of failures. Still there
can be no doubt that superphosphate has, in many instances, proved a valuable and profitable
manure for wheat in Western New York.

From 200 to 300 lbs. are used per acre, and the evidence seems to show that it is far better
to drill in the manure with the seed than to sow it broadcast.

My own opinion is, that these superphosphates are not the most economical artificial manures
that could be used for wheat. They contain too little nitrogen. Peruvian guano containing nitrogen
equal to 10 per cent of ammonia, would be, I think, a much more effective and profitable manure.
But before we discuss this question, it will be necessary to study the results of actual experiments
in the use of various fertilizers for wheat.

CHAPTER XXVII.

LAWES AND GILBERT’S EXPERIMENTS ON WHEAT.

I hardly know how to commence an account of the wonderful experiments made at Rothamsted, England,
by John Bennett Lawes, Esq., and Dr. Joseph H. Gilbert. Mr. Lawes’ first systematic experiment
on wheat, commenced in the autumn of 1843. A field of 14 acres of rather heavy clay soil, resting
on chalk, was selected for the purpose. Nineteen plots were accurately measured and staked
off. The plots ran the long way of the field, and up a slight ascent. On each side of the field,
alongside the plots, there was some land not included, the first year, in the experiment proper.
This land was either left without manure, or a mixture of the manures used in the experiments
was sown on it.

I have heard it said that Mr. Lawes, at this time, was a believer in what was called “Liebig’s
Mineral Manure Theory.” Liebig had said that “The crops on a field, diminish or increase in
exact proportion to the diminution or increase of the mineral substances conveyed to it in
manure.” And enthusiastic gentlemen have been known to tell farmers who were engaged in drawing
out farm-yard manure to their land, that they were wasting their strength; all they needed
was the mineral elements of the manure. “And you might,” they said, “burn your manure, and
sow the ashes, and thus save much time and labor. The ashes will do just as much good as the
manure itself.”

Whether Mr. Lawes did, or did not entertain such an opinion, I do not know. It looks as though
the experiments the first year or two, were made with the expectation that mineral manures,
or the ashes of plants, were what the wheat needed.

The following table gives the kind and quantities of manures used per acre, and the yield of
wheat per acre, as carefully cleaned for market. Also the total weight of grain per acre, and
the weight of straw and chaff per acre.

  Experiments at Rothamsted on the Growth of Wheat, Year After Year,
  on the Same Land.

  Table 1.--Manures And Produce; 1st Season, 1843-4. Manures and Seed
  (Old Red Lammas) Sown Autumn 1843.

  Manures:
  FM  Farmyard Manure.
  FMA Farmyard Manure Ashes.[1]
  SiP Silicate of Potass.[2]
  PhP Phosphate of Potass.[3]
  PhS Phosphate of Soda.[3]
  PhM Phosphate of Magnesia.[3]
  SPL Superphosphate of Lime.[3]
  SAm Sulphate of Ammonia.
  RC  Rape Cake.

  ---+-----------------------------------------------------------+
     |                                                           |
   P |                 Manures per Acre.                         |
   l +-----+-----+-----+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+-----+
   o |     |     |     |       |       |     |       |     |     |
   t |     |     |     |       |       |     |       |     |     |
   s | FM  | FMA | SiP | PhP   |  PhS  | PhM |  SPL  | SA  | RC  |
  ---+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+-----+
     |Tons.|Cwts.|lbs. | lbs.  | lbs.  |lbs. |lbs.   |lbs. |lbs. |
   0 |   Mixture of the residue of most of the other manures.    |
   1 |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..   |  ..   |  .. | 700   |  .. | 154 |
   2 |  14 |  .. |  .. |  ..   |  ..   |  .. |  ..   |  .. |  .. |
   3 |Unmanured. |  .. |  ..   |  ..   |  .. |  ..   |  .. |  .. |
   4 |  .. |32[1]|  .. |  ..   |  ..   |  .. |  ..   |  .. |  .. |
   5 |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..   |  ..   |  .. | 700   |  .. |  .. |
   6 |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..   |  ..   | 420 | 350   |  .. |  .. |
   7 |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..   | 325   |  .. | 350   |  .. |  .. |
   8 |  .. |  .. |  .. | 375   |  ..   |  .. | 350   |  .. |  .. |
   9 |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..   |  ..   |  .. | 630   |  65 |  .. |
  10 |  .. |  .. | 220 |  ..   |  ..   |  .. | 560   |  .. |  .. |
  11 |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..   |  ..   |  .. | 350   |  .. | 308 |
  12 |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..   | 162½  | 210 | 350   |  .. |  .. |
  13 |  .. |  .. |  .. | 187½  |  ..   | 210 | 350   |  .. |  .. |
  14 |  .. |  .. | 275 |  ..   |  ..   | 210 | 350   |  .. |  .. |
  15 |  .. |  .. | 110 | 150   |  ..   | 168 | 350   |  .. |  .. |
  16 |  .. |  .. | 110 |  75   |  65   |  84 | 350   |  65 |  .. |
  17 |  .. |  .. | 110 |  75   |  65   |  84 | 350[4]|  65 |  .. |
  18 |  .. |  .. | 110 |  75   |  65   |  84 | 350   |  65 | 154 |
  19 |  .. |  .. | 110 |  ..   |  81   | 105 | 350   |  81 |  .. |
  20 |Unmanured. |  .. |  ..   |  ..   |  .. |  ..   |  .. |  .. |
  21 |Mixture of the residue of most of the  |  ..   |  .. |  .. |
  22 |  other manures. |  ..   |  ..   |  .. |  ..   |  .. |  .. |
  ---+-----+-----+-----+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+-----+

  Produce:
  Wt/Bu Weight per Bushel.
  OC    Offal Corn.[5]
  C     Corn.
  TC    Total Corn.
  S&C   Straw and Chaff.
  TP    Total Produce.
  TP    Total Produce (Corn and Straw).
  C100  Corn to 100 Straw.

  --------------------------------------+-----------------+-----+---
                                        | Increase per    |     |
       Produce per Acre, etc.           | Acre by Manure. |     | P
  ---------------+----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+ l
  Dressed corn.  |    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | o
  ---------+-----+    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | t
  Qty.[5]  |Wt/Bu| OC | TC  | S&C | TP  |  C  | S&C | TP  |C100 | s
  ---------+-----+----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+---
  Bu.  Pks.|lbs. |lbs.|lbs. |lbs. |lbs. | lbs.| lbs.|lbs. |     |
  19   3¾  |58.5 | 61 |1228 |1436 |2664 | 305 | 316 | 621 |85.5 | 0
  16   3   |59.0 | 52 |1040 |1203 |2243 | 117 |  83 | 200 |86.4 | 1
  20   1¾  |59.3 | 64 |1276 |1476 |2752 | 353 | 356 | 709 |86.4 | 2
  15   0   |58.5 | 46 | 923 |1120 |2043 | ..  | ..  | ..  |82.4 | 3
  14   2¼  |58.0 | 44 | 888 |1104 |1992 | -35 | -16 | -51 |80.4 | 4
  15   2¼  |58.3 | 48 | 956 |1116 |2072 |  33 |  -4 |  29 |85.6 | 5
  15   1   |60.0 | 48 | 964 |1100 |2064 |  41 | -20 |  21 |87.6 | 6
  15   2   |60.3 | 49 | 984 |1172 |2156 |  61 |  52 | 113 |84.0 | 7
  15   0¾  |61.3 | 49 | 980 |1160 |2140 |  57 |  40 |  97 |84.5 | 8
  19   2¼  |62.3 | 54 |1280 |1368 |2048 | 357 | 248 | 605 |93.5 | 9
  15   1¾  |62.0 | 50 |1008 |1112 |2120 |  85 |  -8 |  77 |90.6 |10
  17   0¾  |61.8 | 56 |1116 |1200 |2316 | 193 |  80 | 273 |93.0 |11
  15   2   |61.5 | 50 |1004 |1116 |2120 |  81 |  -4 |  77 |90.0 |12
  16   1¼  |62.5 | 54 |1072 |1204 |2276 | 149 |  84 | 233 |89.0 |13
  15   3   |61.3 | 51 |1016 |1176 |2192 |  93 |  56 | 149 |86.4 |14
  16   3¼  |62.0 | 58 |1096 |1240 |2336 | 173 | 120 | 293 |88.4 |15
  19   3¼  |62.5 | 65 |1304 |1480 |2784 | 381 | 360 | 741 |88.1 |16
  18   3¾  |62.3 | 62 |1240 |1422 |2662 | 317 | 302 | 619 |87.2 |17
  20   3¾  |62.0 | 63 |1368 |1768 |3136 | 415 | 618 |1093 |77.4 |18
  24   1¼  |61.8 | 79 |1580 |1772 |3352 | 657 | 652 |1309 |89.2 |19
  ..   ..  | ..  | .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  |20
  ..   ..  | ..  | .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  |21
  ..   ..  | ..  | .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  |22
  ---------+-----+----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+---

  [Note 1: The farmyard dung was burnt slowly in a heap in the open
  air to an imperfect or coaly ash, and 32 cwts. of ash represent 14
  tons of dung.]

  [Note 2: The silicate of potass was manufactured at a glass-house,
  by fusing equal parts of pearl-ash and sand. The product was a
  transparent glass, slightly deliquescent in the air, which was ground
  to a powder under edge-stones.]

  [Note 3: The manures termed superphosphate of lime, phosphate of
  potass, phosphate of soda, and phosphate of magnesia, were made by
  acting upon bone-ash by means of sulphuric acid in the first instance,
  and in the case-of the alkali salts and the magnesian one neutralizing
  the compound thus obtained by means of cheap preparations of the
  respective bases. For the superphosphate of lime, the proportions were
  5 parts bone-ash, 3 parts water, and 3 parts sulphuric acid of sp. gr.
  1.84; and for the phosphates of potass, soda, and magnesia, they were
  4 parts bone-ash, water as needed, 3 parts sulphuric acid of sp. gr.
  1.84, and equivalent amounts, respectively, of pearl-ash, soda-ash, or
  a mixture of 1 part medicinal carbonate of magnesia, and 4 parts
  magnesian limestone. The mixtures, of course, all lost weight
  considerably by the evolution of water and carbonic acid.]

  [Note 4: Made with unburnt bones.]

  [Note 5: In this first season, neither the weight nor the measure
  of the offal corn was recorded separately; and in former papers, the
  bushels and pecks of total corn (including offal) have erroneously
  been given as dressed corn. To bring the records more in conformity
  with those relating to the other years, 5 per cent, by weight, has
  been deducted from the total corn previously stated as dressed corn,
  and is recorded as offal corn; this being about the probable
  proportion, judging from the character of the season, the bulk of
  the crop, and the weight per bushel of the dressed corn. Although not
  strictly correct, the statements of dressed corn, as amended in this
  somewhat arbitrary way, will approximate more nearly to the truth, and
  be more comparable with those relating to other seasons, than those
  hitherto recorded.]

These were the results of the harvest of 1844. The first year of these since celebrated experiments.

If Mr. Lawes expected that the crops would be in proportion to the minerals supplied in the
manure, he must have been greatly disappointed. The plot without manure of any kind, gave 15
bushels of wheat per acre; 700 lbs. of superphosphate of lime, made from burnt bones, produced
only 38 lbs. or about half a bushel more grain per acre, and 4 lbs. less straw than was obtained
without manure. 640 lbs. of superphosphate, and 65 lbs. of commercial sulphate of ammonia (equal
to about 14 lbs. of ammonia), gave a little over 19½ bushels of dressed wheat per acre. As
compared with the plot having 700 lbs. of superphosphate per acre, this 14 lbs. of available
ammonia per acre, or, say 11½ lbs. nitrogen, gave an increase of 324 lbs. of grain, and 252
lbs. of straw, or a total increase of 576 lbs. of grain and straw.

On plot No. 19, 81 lbs. of sulphate ammonia, with minerals, produces 24¼ bushels per acre.
This yield is clearly due to the ammonia.

The rape-cake contains about 5 per cent of nitrogen, and is also rich in minerals and carbonaceous
matter. It gives an increase, but not as large in proportion to the nitrogen furnished, as
the sulphate of ammonia. And the same remarks apply to the 14 tons of farm-yard manure.

We should have expected a greater increase from such a liberal dressing of barn-yard manure.
I think the explanation is this: The manure had not been piled. It was probably taken out fresh
from the yard (this, at any rate, was the case when I was at Rothamsted), and plowed under
late in the season. And on this heavy land, manure will lie buried in the soil for months,
or, if undisturbed, for years, without decomposition. In other words, while this 14 tons of
barn-yard manure, contained at least 150 lbs. of nitrogen, and a large quantity of minerals
and carbonaceous matter, it did not produce a bushel per acre more than a manure containing
less than 12 lbs. of nitrogen. And on plot 19, a manure containing less than 15 lbs. of available
nitrogen, produced nearly 4 bushels per acre more wheat than the barn-yard manure containing
at least ten times as much nitrogen.

There can be but one explanation of this fact. The nitrogen in the manure lay dormant in this
heavy soil. Had it been a light sandy soil, it would have decomposed more rapidly and produced
a better effect.

As we have before stated, John Johnston finds, on his clay-land, a far greater effect from
manure spread on the surface, where it decomposes rapidly, than when the manure is plowed under.

The Deacon was looking at the figures in the table, and not paying much attention to our talk.
“What could a man be thinking about,” he said, “to burn 14 tons of good manure! It was a great
waste, and I am glad the ashes did no sort of good.”

After the wheat was harvested in 1844, the land was immediately plowed,
harrowed, etc.; and in a few weeks was plowed again and sown to wheat,
the different plots being kept separate, as before. Manures and Seed
  (Old Red Lammas) Sown March 1845.

  Manures:
  FM  Farmyard Manure.
  SiP Silicate of Potass.[1]
  PhP Phosphate of Potass.[2]
  SPL Superphosphate of Lime.[2]
  B-A Bone-ash.
  MAc Muriatic Acid.
  G   Guano.
  SAm Sulphate of Ammonia.
  MAm Muriate of Ammonia.
  CAm Carbonate of Ammonia.
  RC  Rape Cake.
  T   Tapioca.

---+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
   |                                                                    |
 P |                       Manures per Acre. |112 | .. | .. | .. | .. |  ..  |224   |  ..  |  ..  |560 | .. |
 2 |  14 | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | .. | .. |
 3 |Unmanured.| .. | .. | .. | .. |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | .. | .. |
 4 |  .. | .. | .. | .. |112 |112 |  ..  |112   |  ..  |  ..  | .. | .. |
5[4]{1 Unmanured.  | .. | .. | .. |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | .. | .. |
    {2 ..| .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |252[3]| .. | .. |
 6 |  .. | .. | .. |112 | .. | .. |  ..  |112   |  ..  |  ..  |560 | .. |
 7 |  .. | .. | .. |112 | .. | .. |  ..  |112   |  ..  |  ..  | .. |560 |
 8 |  .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |  ..  |112   |  ..  |  ..  |560 | .. |
 9 |  .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |  ..  |168[5]|166[5]|  ..  | .. | .. |
10 |  .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |  ..  |168[6]|168[6]|  ..  | .. | .. |
11 |  .. | .. | .. |280 | .. | .. |  ..  |224   |  ..  |  ..  |560 | .. |
12 |  .. | .. |280 | .. | .. | .. |  ..  |224   |  ..  |  ..  | .. | .. |
13 |  .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |336[7]|  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | .. | .. |
14 |  .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |672[8]|  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | .. | .. |
15 |  .. | .. | .. | .. |224 |224 |  ..  |224   |  ..  |  ..  | .. | .. |
16 |  .. | .. | .. |224 | .. | .. |  ..  | 56   | 56   |  ..  |560 | .. |
17 |  .. | .. | .. |224 | .. | .. |  ..  |112   |112   |  ..  |280 | .. |
18 |  .. | .. | .. |336 | .. | .. |  ..  |112   |112   |  ..  | .. | .. |
19 |  .. | .. | .. | .. |112 |112 |  ..  |112   |  ..  |  ..  |390 | ..
  OCD    Offal Corn to 100 Dressed. |  .. | .. | 8.7 |53.1|  3
  29  2½  |58.0 |161 |1879|3663|5542| 438|  951|1389| 9.4 |51.3|  4
  22  2¼  |57.5 |134 |1431|2684|4115| -10|  -28| -38|10.1 |53.3|1}5
  26  3¾  |57.3 |190 |1732|3599|5331| 291|  887|1178|14.2 |48.1|2}
  28  2¾  |57.8 |214 |1871|3644|5515| 430|  932|1362|14.1 |57.3|  6
  26  2¾  |57.0 |161 |1682|3243|4925| 241|  531| 772|11.3 |51.9|  7
  27  0½  |56.3 |164 |1716|3663|5379| 275|  951|1226|14.0 |46.9|  8
  33  1½  |58.3 |187 |2131|4058|6189| 690| 1346|2036|10.2 |52.5|  9
  31  3¼  |56.3 |191 |1980|4266|6216| 539| 1554|2093|12.3 |46.4| 10
  30  3   |56.0 |158 |1880|4101|5981| 439| 1392|1831|11.3 |45.8| 11
  28  2¼  |55.8 |264 |1842|4134|5976| 401| 1422|1823|17.8 |44.5| 12
  25  0   |56.3 |152 |1558|3355|4913| 117|  643| 760|12.0 |46.4| 13
  27  1   |57.5 |176 |1743|3696|5439| 302|  981|1286|16.2 |47.1| 14
  32  3¾  |57.3 |209 |2103|4044|6147| 662| 1332|1994|11.8 |52.0| 15
  32  2¼  |56.3 |182 |2028|4191|6219| 587| 1479|2066|11.1 |48.4| 16
  32  0¾  |55.8 |299 |2093|3826|5919| 652| 1114|1766|15.2 |54.7| 17
  33  1¼  |56.5 |180 |2948|3819|3867| 607| 1107|1714|11.2 |53.6| 18
  34  3   |57.0 |133 |2114|4215|6329| 673| 1503|2176| 9.1 |50.2| 19
  24  2¾  |56.0 |113 |1495|3104|4599|  54|  392| 446| 9.7 |48.2| 20
  ..  ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |  .. | .. |  .. | .. | 21
  ..  ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |  .. | .. |  .. | .. On plot No. 3, which had no
manure last year, or this, the yield is 23 bushels per acre, against 15
bushels last year.

Last year, the 14 tons of barn-yard manure gave an increase of only 5¼ bushels per acre. This
year it gives an increase of nearly 9 bushels per acre.

“Do you mean,” said the Deacon, “that this plot, No. 2, had 14 tons of manure in 1844, and
14 tons of manure again in 1845?”

“Precisely that, Deacon,” said I, “and this same plot has received this amount of manure every
year since, up to the present time--for these same experiments are still continued from year
to year at Rothamsted.”

“It is poor farming,” said the Deacon, “and I should think the land would get too rich to grow
wheat.”

“It is not so,” said I, “and the fact is an interesting one, and teaches a most important lesson,
of which, more hereafter.”

Plot 5, last year, received 700 lbs. of superphosphate per acre. This year, this plot was divided;
one half was left without manure, and the other dressed with 252 lbs. of pure carbonate of
ammonia per acre. The half without manure, (5a), did not produce quite as much grain and straw
as the plot which had received no manure for two years in succession. But the wheat was of
better quality, weighing 1 lb. more per bushel than the other. Still it is sufficiently evident
that superphosphate of lime did no good so far as increasing the growth was concerned, either
the first year it was applied, or the year following.

The carbonate of ammonia was dissolved in water and sprinkled over the growing wheat at three
different times during the spring. You see this manure, which contains no mineral matter at
all, gives an increase of nearly 4 bushels of grain per acre, and an increase of 887 lbs. of straw.

“Wait a moment,” said the Deacon, “is not 887 lbs. of straw to 4 bushels of grain an unusually
large proportion of straw to grain? I have heard you say that 100 lbs. of straw to each bushel
of wheat is about the average. And according to this experiment, the carbonate of ammonia produced
over 200 lbs. of straw to a bushel of grain. How do you account for this.”

“It is a general rule,” said I, “that the heavier the crop, the greater is the proportion of
straw to grain. On the no-manure plot, we have, this year, 118 lbs. of straw to a bushel of
dressed grain. Taking this as the standard, you will find that the increase from manures is
proportionally greater in straw than in grain. Thus in the increase of barn-yard manure, this
year, we have about 133 lbs. of straw to a bushel of grain. I do not believe there is any manure
that will give us a large crop of grain without a still larger crop of straw. There is considerable
difference, in this respect, between different varieties of wheat. Still, I like to see a good
growth of straw.”

“It is curious,” said the Doctor, “that 3 cwt. of ammonia-salts alone on plots 9 and 10 should
produce as much wheat as was obtained from plot 2, where 14 tons of barn-yard manure had been
applied two years in succession. I notice that on one plot, the ammonia-salts were applied
at once, in the spring, while on the other plot they were sown at four different times--and
that the former gave the best results.”

The only conclusion to be drawn from this, is, that it is desirable to apply the manure early
in the spring--or better still, in the autumn.

“You are a great advocate of Peruvian guano,” said the Deacon, “and yet 3 cwt. of Peruvian
guano on Plot 13, only produced an increase of two bushels and 643 lbs. of straw per acre.
The guano at $60 per ton, would cost $9.00 per acre. This will not pay.”

This is an unusually small increase. The reason, probably, is to be found in the fact that
the manure and seed were not sown until March, instead of in the autumn. The salts of ammonia
are quite soluble and act quickly; while the Peruvian guano has to decompose in the soil, and
consequently needs to be applied earlier, especially on clay land.

“I do not want you,” said the Deacon, “to dodge the question why an application of 14 tons
of farmyard-manure per acre, every year for over thirty years, does not make the land too rich
for wheat.”

“Possibly,” said I, “on light, sandy soil, such an annual dressing of manure would in the course
of a few years make the land too rich for wheat. But on a clayey soil, such is evidently not
the case. And the fact is a very important one. When we apply manure, our object should be
to make it as available as possible. Nature preserves or conserves the food of plants. The
object of agriculture is to use the food of plants for our own advantage.”

“Please be a little more definite,” said the Deacon, “for I must confess I do not quite see
the significance of your remarks.”

“What he means,” said the Doctor, “is this: If you put a quantity of soluble and available
manure on land, and do not sow any crop, the manure will not be wasted. The soil will retain
it. It will change it from a soluble into a comparatively insoluble form. Had a crop been sown
the first year, the manure would do far more good than it will the next year, and yet it may
be that none of the manure is lost. It is merely locked up in the soil in such a form as will
prevent it from running to waste. If it was not for this principle, our lands would have been
long ago exhausted of all their available plant-food.”

“I think I understand,” said the Deacon; “but if what you say is true, it upsets many of our
old notions. We have thought it desirable to plow under manure, in order to prevent the ammonia
from escaping. You claim, I believe, that there is little danger of any loss from spreading
manure on the surface, and I suppose you would have us conclude that we make a mistake in plowing
it under, as the soil renders it insoluble.”

“It depends a good deal,” said I, “on the character of the soil.
A light, sandy soil will not preserve manure like a clay soil. But it is
undoubtedly true that our aim in all cases should be to apply manure in
such a form and to such a crop as will give us the greatest immediate
benefit. Plowing under fresh manure every year for wheat is evidently
not the best way to get the greatest benefit from it. But this is not
the place to discuss this matter. Manures and Seed
  (Old Red Lammas), Sown Autumn, 1845.

  Manures
  FM  Farmyard Manure.
  A3W Ash from 3 loads (3,888 lbs.) Wheat-straw.
  LWM Liebig’s Wheat-manure.
  PG  Peruvian Guano.
  SPL Superphosphate of Lime.
  SiP Silicate of Potass.[1]
  P-A Pearl-ash.
  S-A Soda-ash.
  MLS Magnesian Lime-stone.
  B-A Bone-ash.
  SAc Sulphuric Acid (Sp. gr. 1-7.)
  MAc Muriatic Acid.
  SAm Sulphate of Ammonia.
  MAm Muriate of Ammonia.
  RC  Rape-Cake.

  -----+--------------------------------------------------------------+
       |                                                              |
       |                      Manures per Acre.                       |
    P  +-----+-----+---+---+-----------+---+---+---+---+------+---+---+
    l  |     |     |   |   |           |   |   |   |   |      |   |   |
    o  |     |     |   |   |    SPL    |   |   |   |   |      |   |   |
    t  |     |     |   |   +-----------+   |   |   |   |      |   |   |
    s  | FM  | A3W |LWM|PG |SiP|P-A|S-A|MLS|B-A|SAc|MAc| SAm  |MAm|RC |
  -----+-----+-----+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+------+---+---+
       |Tons.|lbs. |  .. | ..|336| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|  ..  | ..| ..|
   1   |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|224| ..| ..|  ..  | ..| ..|
   2   |  14 |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|  ..  | ..| ..|
   3   |Unmanured. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|  ..  | ..| ..|
       |     |     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |      |   |   |
   4   |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|224| ..|224| 224  | ..| ..|
       |     |     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |      |   |   |
   5a{1|  ..}|     |{..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|  ..  | ..| ..|
     {2|  ..}|Straw|{..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|224[1]| ..| ..|
   5b{1|  ..}| Ash |{..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|  ..  | ..|448|
     {2|  ..}|     |{..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|224[1]| ..|448|
   6a  |  .. |  .. |448| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|  ..  | ..| ..|
   6b  |  .. |  .. |448| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| 112  |112| ..|
   7a  |  .. |  .. |448| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|  ..  | ..|448|
   7b  |  .. |  .. |448| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| 112  |112|448|
       |     |     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |      |   |   |
   8a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|224| ..| ..|  ..  | ..|448|
   8b  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|224| ..| ..| 112  |112| ..|
   9a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|  ..  | ..|448|
   9b  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| 224  | ..|448|
  10a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| 224  | ..| ..|
  10b  |Unmanured. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|  ..  | ..| ..|
       |     |     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |      |   |   |
  11a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|224|224| ..|  ..  | ..|448|
  11b  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|224|224| ..| 112  |112| ..|
  12a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..|180| ..|224|224| ..|  ..  | ..|448|
  12b  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..|180| ..|224|224| ..| 112  |112| ..|
  13a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..|200| ..| ..|224|224| ..|  ..  | ..|448|
  13b  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..|200| ..| ..|224|224| ..| 112  |112| ..|
  14a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| 84|224|224| ..|  ..  | ..|448|
  14b  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| 84|224|224| ..| 112  |112| ..|
       |     |     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |      |   |   |
  15a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| ..| ..| ..|224| ..|224| 224  | ..|448|
  15b  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..|224| ..| ..| ..|224| ..|224| 224  | ..|448|
       |     |     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |      |   |   |
  16a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| 67| 60| 84|224|224| ..|  ..  | ..|448|
  16b  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| 67| 60| 84|224|224| ..| 224  | ..|448|
  17a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| 67| 60| 84|224|224| ..| 112  | 11|448|
  17b  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| 67| 60| 84|224|224| ..| 224  | ..| ..|
  18a  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| 67| 60| 84|224|224| ..| 112  | 11| ..|
  18b  |  .. |  .. | ..| ..| ..| 67| 60| 84|224|224| ..|  ..  | ..| ..|
       |     |     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |      |   |   |
  19   |  .. |  ..
  C     Corn.
  TP    Total Produce. |     |     |
  28  1¾  |62.3 |134 |1906|2561|4467| 699 |1048 | 1747 | 7.3 |74.4 |  0
  22  0¾  |62.6 |120 |1509|1953|3462| 302 | 440 |  742 | 8.1 |77.3 |  1
  27  0¾  |63.0 |113 |1826|2454|4280| 619 | 941 | 1560 | 6.6 |74.4 |  2
  17  3¾  |63.8 | 64 |1207|1513|2720| ..  | ..  |  ..  | 7.4 |79.7 |  3
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |      |     |     |
  25  3¾  |63.5 |130 |1777|2390|4167| 570 | 877 | 1447 | 7.8 |74.3 |  4
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |      |     |     |
  19  0½  |63.7 | 87 |1305|1541|2846|  98 |  28 |  126 |  .. |84.6 |1}5a
  27  0   |63.0 |126 |1827|2309|4136| 620 | 796 | 1416 |  .. |79.1 |2}
  23  2½  |63.4 |100 |1598|1721|3319| 391 | 208 |  599 |  .. |92.8 |1}5b
  30  0¾  |63.3 |165 |2076|2901|4977| 869 |1388 | 2257 |  .. |71.6 |2}
  20  1½  |63.7 |102 |1400|1676|3076| 193 | 163 |  356 | 7.0 |83.6 |  6a
  29  0¾  |63.5 |114 |1967|2571|4538| 760 |1058 | 1818 | 5.3 |76.5 |  6b
  22  3¼  |63.0 | 97 |1534|1968|3502| 327 | 405 |  732 | 6.8 |77.9 |  7a
  31  3   |63.4 |150 |2163|3007|5170| 956 |1494 | 2450 | 7.5 |72.6 |  7b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |      |     |     |
  22  3¾  |63.5 |101 |1549|1963|3512| 342 | 450 |  792 | 7.1 |78.9 |  8a
  29  0¾  |63.6 |132 |1988|2575|4563| 781 |1062 | 1843 | 7.2 |77.2 |  8b
  23  2¾  |63.0 |122 |1614|2033|3647| 407 | 520 |  927 | 7.9 |79.4 |  9a
  28  3½  |63.3 |114 |1942|2603|4545| 735 |1090 | 1825 | 7.0 |74.6 |  9b
  27  1½  |63.6 |109 |1850|2244|4094  643 | 731 | 1374 | 6.4 |82.4 | 10a
  17  2½  |63.8 | 92 |1216|1455|2671|   9 | -58 |  -49 | 7.8 |83.6 | 10b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |      |     |     |
  23  1¾  |63.3 |145 |1628|2133|3761| 421 | 620 | 1041 | 9.8 |76.3 | 11a
  30  0¼  |63.2 |155 |2055|2715|4770| 848 |1202 | 2050 | 6.1 |75.7 | 11b
  24  1½  |63.0 |125 |1661|2163|3824| 454 | 650 | 1104 | 7.9 |76.8 | 12a
  28  2¾  |63.4 |136 |1955|2554|4509| 748 |1041 | 1789 | 7.4 |76.5 | 12b
  24  0   |63.5 |136 |1660|2327|3987| 453 | 814 | 1267 | 9.1 |71.3 | 13a
  29  1¾  |63.2 |138 |1998|2755|4753| 791 |1242 | 2033 | 7.3 |72.5 | 13b
  23  2½  |63.0 |117 |1605|2031|3636| 398 | 518 |  916 | 7.7 |79.0 | 14a
  26  2½  |63.4 |124 |1812|2534|4356| 605 |1021 | 1626 | 7.4 |71.5 | 14b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |      |     |     |
  31  1¾  |62.5 |147 |2112|2936|5048| 905 |1423 | 2328 | 7.5 |71.9 | 15a
  27  2¾  |63.0 |117 |1861|2513|4374| 654 |1000 | 1654 | 5.9 |74.0 | 15b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |      |     |     |
  23  3   |62.5 |108 |1592|2967|3659| 385 | 554 |  939 | 7.0 |77.0 | 16a
  30  1   |62.7 |122 |2019|2836|4855| 812 |1323 | 2135 | 6.6 |71.2 | 16b
  33  2¾  |62.8 |129 |2241|3278|5519|1034 |1765 | 2799 | 5.8 |68.3 | 17a
  30  2   |63.0 |113 |2034|2784|4818| 827 |1271 | 2098 | 5.9 |73.0 | 17b
  31  0   |62.8 |103 |2048|2838|4886| 841 |1325 | 2166 | 5.1 |72.2 | 18a
  21  1   |62.0 |157 |1474|1893|3367| 267 | 380 |  647 | 6.6 |77.1 | 18b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |      |     |     |
  28  3   |62.0 |107 |1889|2425|4314| 682 | 912 | 1594 | 5.8 |77.9 | 19
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |      |     |     |{20
  ..  ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. |  .. |  .. |  ..  | ..  | ..  |{21
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |      |     |     |{22
  --------+-----+----+----+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+----

  [Note 1: Top-dressed in the Spring.]

This year, the seed and manures were sown in the autumn. And I want the Deacon to look at plot
0. 3 cwt. of Peruvian guano here gives an increase of 10½ bushels of wheat, and 1,948 lbs.
of straw per acre. This will pay well, even on the wheat alone. But in addition to this, we
may expect, in our ordinary rotation of crops, a far better crop of clover where the guano
was used.

In regard to some of the results this year, Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert have the following concise
and interesting remarks:

“At this third experimental harvest, we have on the continuously unmanured plot, namely, No.
3, not quite 18 bushels of dressed corn, as the normal produce of the season; and by its side
we have on plot 10b--comprising one-half of the plot 10 of the previous years, and so highly
manured by ammoniacal salts in 1845, but now unmanured--rather more than 17½ bushels. The near
approach, again, to identity of result from the two unmanured plots, at once gives confidence
in the accuracy of the experiments, and shows us how effectually the preceding crop had, in
a practical point of view, reduced the plots, previously so differently circumstanced both
as to manure and produce, to something like an uniform standard as regards their grain-producing
qualities.

“Plot 2 has, as before, 14 tons of farm-yard manure, and the produce is 27¼ bushels, or between
9 and 10 bushels more than without manure of any kind.

“On plot 10a, which in the previous year gave by ammoniacal salts alone, a produce equal to
that of the farm-yard manure, we have again a similar result: for two cwts. of sulphate of
ammonia has now given 1,850 lbs. of total corn, instead of 1,826 lbs., which is the produce
on plot 2. The straw of the latter, is, however, slightly heavier than that by the ammoniacal salt.

“Again, plot 5a, which was in the previous season unmanured, was now subdivided: on one-half
of it (namely, 5a1) we have the ashes of wheat-straw alone, by which there is an increase of
rather more than one bushel per acre of dressed corn; on the other half (or 5a2) we have, besides
the straw-ashes, two cwts. of sulphate of ammonia put on as a top-dressing: two cwts. of sulphate
of ammonia have, in this case, only increased the produce beyond that of 5a1 by 7⅞ bushels
of corn and 768 lbs. of straw, instead of by 9¾ bushels of corn and 789 lbs. of straw, which
was the increase obtained by the same amount of ammoniacal salt on 10a, as compared with 10b.

“It will be observed, however, that in the former case the ammoniacal salts were top-dressed,
but in the latter they were drilled at the time of sowing the seed; and it will be remembered
that in 1845 the result was better as to corn on plot 9, where the salts were sown earlier,
than on plot 10, where the top-dressing extended far into the spring. We have had several direct
instances of this kind in our experience, and we would give it as a suggestion, in most cases
applicable, that manures for wheat, and especially ammoniacal ones, should be applied before
or at the time the seed is sown; for, although the apparent luxuriance of the crop is greater,
and the produce of straw really heavier, by spring rather than autumn sowings of Peruvian guano
and other ammoniacal manures, yet we believe that that of the corn will not be increased in
an equivalent degree. Indeed, the success of the crop undoubtedly depends very materially on
the progress of the underground growth during the winter months; and this again, other things
being equal, upon the quantity of available nitrogenous constituents within the soil, without
a liberal provision of which, the range of the fibrous feeders of the plant will not be such,
as to take up the minerals which the soil is competent to supply, and in such quantity as will
be required during the after progress of the plant for its healthy and favorable growth.”

These remarks are very suggestive and deserve special attention.

“The next result to be noticed,” continue Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert, “is that obtained on plot
6, now also divided into two equal portions designated respectively 6a and 6b. Plot No. 6 had
for the crop of 1844, superphosphate of lime and the phosphate of magnesia manure, and for
that of 1845, superphosphate of lime, rape-cake, and ammoniacal salts. For this, the third
season, it was devoted to the trial of the wheat-manure manufactured under the sanction of
Professor Liebig, and patented in this country.

“Upon plots 6a, four cwts. per acre of the patent wheat-manure were used, which gave 20¼ bushels,
or rather more than two bushels beyond the produce of the unmanured plot; but as the manure
contained, besides the minerals peculiar to it, some nitrogenous compounds, giving off a very
perceptible odor of ammonia, some, at least, of the increase would be due to that substance.
On plot 6b, however, the further addition of one cwt. each of sulphate and muriate of ammonia
to this so-called ‘Mineral Manure,’ gives a produce of 29¼ bushels. In other words, the addition
of ammoniacal salt, to Liebig’s mineral manure has increased the produce by very nearly 9 bushels
per acre beyond that of the mineral manure alone, whilst the increase obtained over the unmanured
plot, by 14 tons of farm-yard manure, was only 9¼ bushels!

The following table gives the results of the experiments the fourth
year, 1846-7. Manures and Seed
  (Old Red Lammas), Sown End of October, 1846.

  Manures
  FM  Farm-yard Manure.
  PG  Peruvian Guano.
  R   Rice.

  -----+--------------------------------------------------------+
       |               Manures per Acre.  | 500  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |
   1   |   ..  |  ..  | 200  |  ..  | 200  | 350  |  50  |  ..  |
   2   |   14  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |
   3   | Unmanured.   |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |
       |       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
   4   |   ..  |  ..  | 200  |  ..  | 200  | 300  |  ..  |  ..  |
       |       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
   5a  |   ..  |  ..  | 200  | 200  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
   5b  |   ..  |  ..  | 200  | 200  |  ..  | 150  | 150  | 500  |
   6a  |   ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
   6b  |   ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
   7a  |   ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
   7b  |   ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
       |       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
   8a  |   ..  |  ..  | 200  | 200  |  ..  | 150  | 150  | 500  |
   8b  |   ..  |  ..  | 200  | 200  |  ..  | 200  | 200  |  ..  |
   9a{1|   ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |2240  |
     {2|   ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
   9b  |   ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  10a  |   ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  10b  |   ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
       |       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  11a  |   ..  |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  11b  |   ..  |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  12a  |   ..  |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  12b  |   ..  |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  13a  |  ..   |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  13b  |  ..   |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  14a  |  ..   |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  14b  |  ..   |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
       |       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  15a  |  ..   |  ..  | 200  |  ..  | 200  | 300  |  ..  | 500  |
  15b  |  ..   |  ..  | 200  |  ..  | 200  | 300  |  ..  | 500  |
       |       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  16a  |  ..   |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  16b  |  ..   |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  17a  |  ..   |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  17b  |  ..   |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 200  | 200  |  ..  |
  18a  |  ..   |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
  18b  |  ..   |  ..  | 100  | 100  |  ..  | 150  | 150  |  ..  |
       |       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  19   |  ..   |  ..  | 100  |  ..  | 100  | 300  |  .. |     |     |
  30   2¾ |61.1 | 156|2031|3277 |5308| 908 |1375 |2283 | 8.2 |61.9 |  0
  32   1  |61.2 | 147|2119|3735 |5854| 996 |1833 |2829 | 7.2 |56.7 |  1
  29   3¾ |62.3 | 117|1981|3628 |5609| 858 |1726 |2584 | 6.2 |54.6 |  2
  16   3½ |61.0 |  95|1123|1902 |3025|  .. |  .. |  .. | 8.9 |59.0 |  3
          |     |    |    |     |    |     |     |     |     |     |
  27   1¾ |61.9 |  82|1780|2948 |4728| 657 |1046 |1703 | 4.7 |60.3 |  4
          |     |    |    |     |    |     |     |     |     |     |
  29   0  |61.8 | 130|1921|3412 |5333| 798 |1510 |2309 | 7.1 |56.3 |  5a
  32   2  |61.4 | 136|2132|3721 |5853|1009 |1819 |2827 | 6.6 |57.2 |  5b
  24   3¼ |62.1 | 122|1663|2786 |4449| 540 | 884 |1124 | 7.8 |59.6 |  6a
  24   1¾ |61.6 | 127|1632|2803 |4435| 509 | 901 |1410 | 8.2 |58.2 |  6b
  27   3¼ |61.7 | 118|1834|3151 |4985| 711 |1249 |1960 | 6.8 |58.2 |  7a
  25   1¼ |61.5 | 125|1682|2953 |4635| 559 |1051 |1610 | 7.9 |56.9 |  7b
          |     |    |    |     |    |     |     |     |     |     |
  32   1¾ |62.1 | 102|2115|3683 |5798| 992 |1781 |2773 | 5.5 |57.4 |  8a
  30   3  |61.7 | 123|2020|3720 |5740| 897 |1818 |2715 | 6.5 |54.3 |  8b
  22   3  |62.5 | .. |1477|2506 |3983| 228 | 604 |  .. |  .. |53.9 |1}9a
  26   2  |61.0 | .. |1755|3052 |4807| 632 |1150 |  .. |  .. |57.5 |2}
  26   0  |61.3 | 123|1717|2858 |4575| 594 | 956 |1550 |  .. |60.1 |  9b
  25   3  |61.5 | 118|1702|2891 |4593| 579 | 989 |1568 | 7.3 |58.8 | 10a
  25   2¾ |61.2 | 133|1705|2874 |4579| 582 | 972 |1554 | 8.2 |59.3 | 10b
          |     |    |    |     |    |     |     |     |     |     |
  30   3½ |61.6 | 142|2044|3517 |5561| 921 |1615 |2536 | 6.3 |59.5 | 11a
  29   1¾ |61.8 | 123|1941|3203 |5144| 818 |1301 |2119 | 6.7 |60.6 | 11b
  29   2  |62.0 | 124|1953|3452 |5405| 830 |1550 |2380 | 6.6 |57.1 | 12a
  27   0½ |61.8 | 121|1796|3124 |4920| 673 |1222 |1895 | 7.1 |57.4 | 12b
  20   2½ |62.5 | 108|1959|3306 |5265| 836 |1404 |2240 | 5.5 |57.3 | 13a
  27   1¼ |62.3 |  96|1801|3171 |4972| 678 |1269 |1947 | 5.3 |56.7 | 13b
  28   0¾ |62.8 | 175|1944|3362 |5306| 821 |1460 |2281 | 9.7 |59.5 | 14a
  26   3¾ |62.8 | 166|1856|3006 |4862| 733 |1104 |1837 | 9.8 |61.7 | 14b
          |     |    |    |     |    |     |     |     |     |     |
  32   3  |63.0 | 151|2214|3876 |6090|1091 |1974 |3065 | 7.2 |57.1 | 15a
  32   0  |62.6 | 137|2140|3617 |5757|1017 |1715 |2732 | 6.6 |59.1 | 15b
          |     |    |    |     |    |     |     |     |     |     |
  29   1¼ |62.3 | 132|1959|3417 |5376| 836 |1515 |2351 | 6.9 |57.3 | 16a
  34   2¼ |62.6 | 119|2283|4012 |6295|1160 |2110 |3270 | 5.2 |56.9 | 16b
  33   3  |62.3 | 119|2222|4027 |6249|1099 |2125 |3224 | 5.6 |55.1 | 17a
  35   1¼ |62.0 | 117|2314|4261 |6575|1191 |2359 |3550 | 6.4 |54.3 | 17b
  32   0¾ |62.7 | 142|2160|3852 |6012|1037 |1950 |2987 | 6.9 |56.0 | 18a
  29   1½ |62.9 | 181|2029|4164 |6193| 906 |2262 |3168 | 9.7 |48.7 | 18b
          |     |    |    |     |    |     |     |     |     |     |
  32   3  |62.8 | 140|2195|4202 |6397|1072 |2300 |3372 | 6.7 |52.2 | 19
  20   0¾ |62.5 |  70|1332|2074 |3406| 209 | 172 | 381 | 4.9 |64.2 | 20
  ..   .. | ..  | .. | .. |  .. | .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |}21
          |     |    |    |     |    |     |     |     |     |     |}22
  --------+-----+----+----+-----+----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+----

Here again, I want the Deacon to look at plot 0, where 500 lbs. Peruvian guano, sown in October,
gives an increase of nearly 14 bushels of dressed wheat and 1,375 lbs. of straw per acre.

“But will the guano,” said the Deacon, “be as lasting as the manure?”

“Not for wheat,” said I. “But if you seed the wheat down with clover, as would be the case
in this section, we should get considerable benefit, probably, from the guano. If wheat was
sown after the wheat, the guano applied the previous season would do little good on the second
crop of wheat. And yet it is a matter of fact that there would be a considerable proportion
of the guano left in the soil. The wheat cannot take it up. But the clover can. And we all
know that if we can grow good crops of clover, plowing it under, or feeding it out on the land,
or making it into hay and saving the manure obtained from it, we shall thus be enabled to raise
good crops of wheat, barley, oats, potatoes, and corn, and in this sense guano is a ‘lasting’
manure.”

“Barnyard-manure,” said the Doctor, “is altogether too ‘lasting.’ Here we have had 56 tons
of manure on an acre of land in four years, and yet an acre dressed with 500 lbs. of guano
produces just as good a crop. The manure contains far more plant-food, of all kinds, than the
guano, but it is so ‘lasting’ that it does not do half as much good as its composition would
lead us to expect. Its ‘lasting’ properties are a decided objection, rather than an advantage.
If we could make it less lasting--in other words, if we could make it act quicker, it would
produce a greater effect, and possess a greater value. In proportion to its constituents, the
barn-yard manure is far cheaper than the guano, but it has a less beneficial effect, because
these constituents are not more completely decomposed and rendered available.”

“That,” said I, “opens up a very important question. We have more real value in manure than
most of us are as yet able to bring out and turn to good account. The sandy-land farmer has
an advantage over the clay-land farmer in this respect. The latter has a naturally richer soil,
but it costs him more to work it, and manure does not act so rapidly. The clay-land farmer
should use his best endeavors to decompose his manure.”

“Yes,” said the Doctor, “and, like John Johnston, he will probably find it to his advantage
to use it largely as a top-dressing on the surface. Exposing manure to the atmosphere, spread
out on the land for several months, and harrowing it occasionally, will do much to render its
constituents available. But let us return to Mr. Lawes’ wonderful experiments.”

“On eight plots,” said I, “300 lbs. of ammonia-salts were used without any other manures, and
the average yield on these eight plots was nearly 26 bushels per acre, or an average increase
of 9 bushels per acre. The same amount of ammonia-salts, with the addition of superphosphate
of lime, gave an increase of 13 bushels per acre. 400 lbs. ammonia salts, with superphosphate
of lime, gave an increase of nearly 16 bushels per acre, or three bushels per acre more than
where 14 tons of barn-yard manure had been used four years in succession.

“I hope, after this, the Deacon will forgive me for dwelling on the value of available nitrogen
or ammonia as a manure for wheat.”

“I see,” said the Deacon, “that ground rice was used this year for manure; and in 1845, tapioca
was also used as a manure. The Connecticut Tobacco growers a few years since used corn-meal
for manure, and you thought it a great waste of good food.”

I think so still. But we will not discuss the matter now. Mr. Lawes wanted to ascertain whether
carbonaceous matter was needed by the growing wheat-plants, or whether they could get all they
needed from the soil and the atmosphere. The enormous quantities of carbonaceous matter supplied
by the barn-yard manure, it is quite evident, are of little value as a manure for wheat. And
the rice seems to have done very little more good than we should expect from the 22 lbs. of
nitrogen which it contained. The large quantity of carbonaceous matter evidently did little
good. Available carbonaceous matter, such as starch, sugar, and oil, was intended as food for
man and beast--not as food for wheat or tobacco.

The following table gives the results of the experiments the fifth
year, 1847-8. Manures and Seed
  (Old Red Lammas), Sown Autumn, 1847.

  Manures
  FM  Farm-yard Manure.
  P-A Pearl-ash.
  S-A Soda-ash.
  SMg Sulphate of Magnesia.
  SPL Superphosphate of Lime.
  B-A Bone-ash.
  SAc Sulphuric Acid (Sp. gr. | ..  | ..  | ..  |2240 | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  |
   1 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  |
     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
   5 |  .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 250 | 250 | ..  |
   5 |  .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 200 | 200 | 500 |
   6 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 400 | 300 | ..  | 200 | 200 | ..  |
   6 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 200 | 200 | ..  |
   7 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 400 | 300 | ..  | 150 | 150 | 500 |
   7 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 150 | 150 | 500 |
     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
   8 |  .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  |
   8 |  .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  |
   9 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  |
   9 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 150 | 150 | ..  |
  10 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 150 | 150 | ..  |
  10 |  .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 150 | 150 | ..  |
     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | ..  |
  11 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 150 | 150 | 500 |
  11 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 200 | 200 | ..  |
  12 |  .. | 300 | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 150 | 150 | 500 |
  12 |  .. | 300 | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 200 | 200 | ..  |
  13 |  .. | 300 | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 150 | 150 | 500 |
  13 |  .. | 300 | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 200 | 200 | ..  |
  14 |  .. | 300 | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 150 | 150 | 500 |
  14 |  .. | 300 | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 200 | 200 | ..  |
     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  15 |  .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | ..  | 200 | ..  | 200 | 300 | ..  | ..  |
  15 |  .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | ..  | 200 | ..  | 200 | 300 | ..  | ..  |
     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  16 |  .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | ..  | 200 | 150 | .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 200 | 200 | ..  |
  18 |  .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | ..  | 200 | 150 | ..  | 150 | 150 | ..  |
     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  19 |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | ..  | 200 | 300 | ..  | 500 |
  20 | Unmanured.| ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  |
  21}|  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | .. |  .. |  .. |12.1| 55.6|  3
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |     |
  24  0½  |58.5 |172 |1583|2713|4296| 631 |1001 | 1632|12.0| 58.3|  4
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |     |
  29  3½  |59.2 |144 |1911|3266|5177| 959 |1554 | 2513| 7.9| 58.5|  5a
  39  3½  |59.1 |107 |1932|3533|5465| 980 |1821 | 2801| 5.8| 57.5|  5b
  24  3¼  |58.8 |214 |1672|2878|4550| 720 |1166 | 1886|14.6| 58.0|  6a
  26  3   |56.9 |216 |1737|2968|4705| 785 |1256 | 2041|14.0| 58.5|  6b
  30  3¼  |59.4 |106 |1936|3088|5024| 984 |1376 | 2360| 5.7| 62.6|  7a
  29  3¼  |59.6 |187 |1963|3413|5376|1011 |1701 | 2712|10.3| 57.5|  7b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |     |
  19  3   |56.2 |154 |1263|2317|3580| 311 | 605 |  916|13.6| 54.5|  8a
  19  0¾  |59.4 |127 |1267|2148|3415| 315 | 436 |  751|11.1| 58.8|  8b
  18  2½  |56.7 |125 |1181|1945|3126| 229 | 233 |  462|11.6| 60.7|  9a
  25  0¼  |53.3 |208 |1669|2918|4587| 717 |1206 | 1923|13.9| 57.1|  9b
  19  1   |58.1 |215 |1334|2367|3701| 382 | 655 | 1037|19.0| 56.3| 10a
  25  0¼  |57.8 |155 |1604|2926|4530| 652 |1214 | 1866|10.6| 54.8| 10b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |     |
  29  1½  |59.6 |233 |1984|3274|5258|1032 |1562 | 2594|13.1| 60.6| 11a
  24  3   |57.9 |207 |1641|2898|4539| 689 |1186 | 1875|14.1| 56.4| 11b
  29  3   |59.3 |174 |1938|3390|5328| 986 |1678 | 2664| 9.3| 57.2| 12a
  26  0¾  |59.2 |167 |1717|2880|4597| 765 |1168 | 1933|10.7| 59.6| 12b
  29  1½  |57.9 |253 |1955|3290|5245|1003 |1578 | 2581|14.7| 59.4| 13a
  25  3¼  |58.4 |224 |1730|3072|4802| 778 |1360 | 2138|14.6| 56.3| 13b
  28  0¼  |58.8 |184 |1834|3257|5091| 882 |1545 | 2427|11.1| 56.3| 14a
  25  2½  |58.5 |227 |1726|2897|4623| 774 |1185 | 1959|15.1| 59.5| 14b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |     |
  22  3½  |58.1 |242 |1571|2937|4508| 619 |1225 | 1844|18.1| 53.4| 15a
  24  2¾  |56.9 |202 |1607|3016|4623| 655 |1304 | 1959|14.1| 53.2| 15b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |     |
  29  3¼  |60.0 |184 |1973|3115|5088|1021 |1403 | 2424|10.2| 63.3| 16a
  30  1¾  |58.4 |171 |1948|3380|5328| 996 |1668 | 2664| 9.4| 57.6| 16b
  27  2½  |59.7 |285 |1933|3296|5229| 981 |1584 | 2565|17.0| 58.6| 17a
  28  3½  |59.7 |222 |1946|3324|5270| 994 |1612 | 2606|12.6| 58.5| 17b
  26  3   |59.2 |150 |1734|2935|4669| 782 |1223 | 2005| 9.2| 59.0| 18a
  26  2¾  |59.6 |215 |1804|3056|4860| 852 |1344 | 2196|13.3| 58.7| 18b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |     |
  29  1¾  |56.2 |185 |1838|3295|5133| 886 |1583 | 2469|10.4| 55.7| 19
  16  0½  |58.3 |111 |1050|1721|2771|  98 |   9 |  107|11.3| 61.0| 20
  ..  ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. |  .. |  .. |  .. | .. |  .. |}21
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |     |}22
  --------+-----+----+----+----+----+-----+-----+-----+----+-----+----

This season was considered unfavorable for wheat. The continuously unmanured plot produced
14¾ bushels, and the plot receiving 14 tons of barn yard manure, 25¾ bushels per acre nearly.

300 lbs. of ammonia-salts alone on plot 10a, gave 19¼ bushels per acre, while the same quantity
of ammonia, with superphosphate in addition, gave, on plot 9b, 25 bushels per acre.

The addition to the above manures of 300 lbs. of potash, 200 lbs. soda, and 100 lbs. sulphate
of magnesia, on plot 10b, gave precisely the same yield per acre as the ammonia and the superphosphate
alone. The potash, soda, and magnesia, therefore, did no good.

400 lbs. of ammonia-salts, with superphosphate, potash, etc., gave, on plot 17b, nearly 29
bushels per acre, or 3½ bushels more than the plot which has now received 70 tons of barn-yard
manure in five successive years.

“I see that, on plot 0,” said the Deacon, “one ton of superphosphate was used per acre, and
it gave only half a bushel per acre more than 350 lbs. on 9a.”

“This proves,” said I, “that an excessive dose of superphosphate will do no harm. I am not
sure that 100 lbs. of a good superphosphate drilled in with the seed, would not have done as
much good as a ton per acre.”

“You say,” remarked the Deacon, “that the season was unfavorable for wheat. And yet the no-manure
plot produced nearly 15 bushels of wheat per acre.”

“That is all true,” said I, “and yet the season was undoubtedly an unfavorable one. This is
shown not only in the less yield, but in the inferior quality of the grain. The ‘dressed corn’
on the no-manure plot this year only weighed 57⅓ lbs. per bushel, while last year it weighed
61 lbs. per bushel.”

“By the way,” said the Doctor, “what do Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert mean by ‘dressed corn’?”

“By ‘corn,’” said I, “they mean wheat; and by ‘dressed corn’ they mean wheat that has been
run through a fanning-mill until all the light and shrunken grain is blown or sieved out. In
other words, ‘dressed corn’ is wheat carefully cleaned for market. The English farmers take
more pains in cleaning their grain than we do. And this ‘dressed corn’ was as clean as a good
fanning-mill could make it. You will observe that there was more ‘offal corn’ this year than
last. This also indicates an unfavorable season.”

“It would have been very interesting,” said the Doctor, “if Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert had analyzed
the wheat produced by the different manures, so that we might have known something in regard
to the quality of the flour as influenced by the use of different fertilizers.”

“They did that very thing,” said I, “and not only that, but they made the wheat grown on different
plots, into flour, and ascertained the yield of flour from a given weight of wheat, and the
amount of bran, middlings, etc., etc. They obtained some very interesting and important results.
I was there at the time. But this is not the place to discuss the question. I am often amused,
however, at the remarks we often hear in regard to the inferior quality of our wheat as compared
to what it was when the country was new. Many seem to think that ‘there is something lacking
in the soil’--some say potash, and some phosphates, and some this, and some that. I believe
nothing of the kind. Depend upon it, the variety of the wheat and the soil and season have
much more to do with the quality or strength of the flour, than the chemical composition of
the manures applied to the land.”

“At any rate,” said the Doctor, “we may be satisfied that anything that will produce a vigorous,
healthy growth of wheat is favorable to quality. We may use manures in excess, and thus produce
over-luxuriance and an unhealthy growth, and have poor, shrunken grain. In this case, it is
not the use, but the abuse of the manure that does the mischief. We must not manure higher
than the season will bear. As yet, this question rarely troubles us. Hitherto, as a rule, our
seasons are better than our farming. It may not always be so. We may find the liberal use of
manure so profitable that we shall occasionally use it in excess. At present, however, the
tendency is all the other way. We have more grain of inferior quality from lack of fertility
than from an excess of plant-food.”

“That may be true,” said I, “but we have more poor, inferior wheat from lack of draining and
good culture, than from lack of plant-food. Red-root, thistles, cockle, and chess, have done
more to injure the reputation of ‘Genesee Flour,’ than any other one thing, and I should like
to hear more said about thorough cultivation, and the destruction of weeds, and less about
soil exhaustion.”

The following table shows the results of the experiments the sixth
year, 1848-9. Manures and Seed
  (Red Cluster), Sown Autumn, 1848.                                |
   P  +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----------------+-----+-----+----+
   l  |     |     |     |     |  Superphosphate |     |     |    |
   o  |     |     |     |     |     of Lime.  |  .. |  .. |  .. | 600 | 450 |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..|
   1  | ..  | 600 | 400 | 200 |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  .. | 250 | 250 |  ..|
   5b | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
   6b | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
   7a | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
   7b | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |    |
   8a |Unmanured. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..|
   8b | ..  |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |2000|
   9a | ..  |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |2000|
   9b |Unmanured. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  ..|
  10a | ..  |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  10b | ..  |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |    |
  11a | ..  |  .. |  .. |  .. | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  11b | ..  |  .. |  .. |  .. | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  12a | ..  | 300 |  .. |  .. | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  12b | ..  | 300 |  .. |  .. | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  13a | ..  | 300 |  .. |  .. | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  13b | ..  | 300 |  .. |  .. | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  14a | ..  | 300 |  .. |  .. | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  14b | ..  | 300 |  .. |  .. | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |    |
  15a | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 |  .. | 200 | 300 |  .. |  ..|
  15b | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 |  .. | 200 | 300 |  .. | 500|
      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |    |
  16a | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  16b | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  17a | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  17b | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  18a | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  .. | 200 | 200 |  ..|
  18b | ..  | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 |  ..  ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. |  1
  31  0   |63.8 |107 |2068|3029|5097|  839|1415 | 2254|4.7 |68.3|  2
  19  1   |61.4 | 47 |1229|1614|2843| ..  | ..  | ..  |3.9 |76.1|  3
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  30  0   |63.0 |110 |2063|2645|4708|  834|1031 | 1865|5.6 |78.0|  4
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  37  1¼  |63.1 | 89 |2446|3589|6035| 1217|1975 | 3192|3.7 |68.1|  5a
  39  3½  |63.4 | 97 |2651|3824|6475| 1422|2210 | 3632|5.0 |69.3|  5b
  36  1½  |63.0 |117 |2410|3072|5482| 1181|1458 | 2639|5.1 |78.4|  6a
  37  3¾  |63.0 | 94 |2484|3516|6000| 1255|1902 | 3157|3.9 |70.6|  6b
  38  2¼  |63.1 |137 |2576|3584|6160| 1347|1970 | 3317|5.6 |71.9|  7a
  37  3¾  |62.9 |141 |2531|3396|5927| 1302|1782 | 3084|5.9 |74.5|  7b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  22  3   |61.7 | 76 |1481|1815|3296|  252| 201 |  453|5.3 |81.6|  8a
  31  2½  |63.0 | 85 |2080|3166|5246|  851|1552 | 2403|4.3 |65.7|  8b
  30  2¾  |62.8 |111 |2035|2683|4718|  806|1069 | 1875|5.8 |75.8|  9a
  22  1½  |62.3 | 80 |1475|1810|3285|  246| 196 |  432|5.7 |81.5|  9b
  32  2¼  |62.3 |112 |2141|2851|4992|  912|1237 | 2149|5.5 |75.1| 10a
  32  1¼  |63.3 |110 |2157|2960|5117|  928|1346 | 2274|5.3 |72.9| 10b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  35  0½  |62.6 |121 |2317|2892|5209| 1088|1278 | 2366|5.6 |80.1| 11a
  32  1¼  |63.0 |112 |2149|2942|5091|  920|1328 | 2248|5.5 |73.0| 11b
  35  3¼  |64.3 | 93 |2396|3371|5767| 1167|1757 | 2924|4.1 |71.1| 12a
  34  1¼  |64.3 | 71 |2277|3300|5577| 1048|1687 | 2735|3.2 |69.0| 12b
  34  3¾  |64.1 |101 |2340|3236|5576| 1111|1622 | 2733|4.5 |72.3| 13a
  34  2¼  |64.1 |129 |2346|3246|5592| 1117|1632 | 2749|5.8 |72.3| 13b
  34  1½  |64.3 | 56 |2266|3211|5477| 1037|1597 | 2634|2.5 |70.6| 14a
  31  1¼  |64.3 |112 |2123|3218|5341|  894|1604 | 2498|5.5 |66.0| 14b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  31  3¼  |64.2 | 65 |2109|3038|5147|  880|1424 | 2304|3.2 |69.4| 15a
  30  0¾  |64.1 | 68 |2005|3262|5267|  776|1648 | 2424|3.5 |61.5| 15b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  33  1½  |64.5 |101 |2254|3384|5638| 1025|1770 | 2795|4.7 |66.6| 16a
  33  3¾  |64.6 | 75 |2268|3559|5827| 1039|1945 | 2984|3.4 |63.7| 16b
  34  1   |64.3 |111 |2316|3891|6207| 1087|2277 | 3364|5.1 |59.4| 17a
  33  1½  |64.4 |112 |2259|3858|6117| 1030|2244 | 3274|5.2 |58.5| 17b
  32  1¼  |64.0 | 93 |2163|3592|5755|  934|1978 | 2912|4.5 |60.2| 18a
  33  2¼  |64.0 | 95 |2243|3779|6022| 1014|2165 | 3179|4.4 |59.3| 18b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  29  2¼  |63.9 |102 |1994|3270|5264|  765|1656 | 2421|5.4 |61.0| 19
  ..  ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | 20
  ..  ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. |}21
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |}22
  --------+-----+----+----+----+----+-----+-----+-----+----+----+----

“This was my last year at Rothamsted,” said I, “and I feel a peculiar interest in looking over
the results after such a lapse of time. When this crop was growing, my father, a good practical
farmer, but with little faith in chemical manures, paid me a visit. We went to the experimental
wheat-field. The first two plots, 0 and 1, had been dressed, the one with superphosphate, the
other with potash, soda, and magnesia. My father did not seem much impressed with this kind
of chemical manuring. Stepping to the next plot, where 14 tons of barn-yard manure had been
used, he remarked, “this is good, what have you here?”

“Never mind,” said I, “we have better crops farther on.”

The next plot, No. 3, was the one continuously unmanured. “I can beat this myself,” said he,
and passed on to the next. “This is better,” said he, “what have you here?”

“Superphosphate and sulphate of ammonia.”

“Well, it is a good crop, and the straw is bright and stiff.”--It turned out 30 bushels per
acre, 63 lbs. to the bushel.

The next six plots had received very heavy dressings of ammonia-salts, with superphosphate,
potash, soda, and magnesia. He examined them with the greatest interest. “What have you here?”
he asked, while he was examining 5a, which afterwards turned out 37¼ bushels per acre. --“Potash,
soda, epsom-salts, superphosphate, and ammonia--but it is the ammonia that does the good.”

He passed to the next plot, and was very enthusiastic over it. “What have you here?” --“Rape-cake
and ammonia,” said I. --“It is a grand crop,” said he, and after examining it with great interest,
he passed to the next, 6a. --“What have you here?” --“Ammonia,” said I; and at 6b he asked
the same question, and I replied “ammonia.” At 7a, the same question and the same answer. Standing
between 7b and 8a, he was of course struck with the difference in the crop; 8a was left this
year without any manure, and though it had received a liberal supply of mineral manures the
year before, and minerals and ammonia-salts, and rape-cake, the year previous, it only produced
this year, 3½ bushels more than the plot continuously unmanured. The contrast between the wheat
on this plot and the next one might well interest a practical farmer. There was over 15 bushels
per acre more wheat on the one plot than on the other, and 1,581 lbs. more straw.

Passing to the next plot, he exclaimed “this is better, but not so good as some that we have
passed.” --“It has had a heavy dressing of rape-cake,” said I, “equal to about 100 lbs. of
ammonia per acre, and the next plot was manured this year in the same way. The only difference
being that one had superphosphate and potash, soda, and magnesia, the year before, while the
other had superphosphate alone.” It turned out, as you see from the table, that the potash,
etc., only gave half a bushel more wheat per acre the year it was used, and this year, with
2,000 lbs. of rape-cake on each plot, there is only a bushel per acre in favor of the potash,
soda, and magnesia.

The next plot, 9b, was also unmanured and was passed by my father without comment. “Ah,” said
he, on coming to the two next plots, 10a and 10b, “this is better, what have you here?” --“Nothing
but ammonia,” said I, “and I wish you would tell me which is the best of the two? Last year
10b had a heavy dressing of minerals and superphosphate with ammonia, and 10a the same quantity
of ammonia alone, without superphosphate or other mineral manures. And this year both plots
have had a dressing of 400 lbs. each of ammonia-salts. Now, which is the best--the plot that
had superphosphate and minerals last year, or the one without?” --“Well,” said he, “I can’t
see any difference. Both are good crops.”

You will see from the table, that the plot which had the superphosphate, potash, etc., the
year before, gives a peck less wheat this year than the other plot which had none. Practically,
the yield is the same. There is an increase of 13 bushels of wheat per acre--and this increase
is clearly due to the ammonia-salts alone.

The next plot was also a splendid crop.

“What have you here?”

“Superphosphate and ammonia.”

This plot (11a), turned out 35 bushels per acre. The next plot, with
phosphates and ammonia, was nearly as good. The next plot, with potash,
phosphates, and ammonia, equally good, but no better than 11a. There
was little or no benefit from the potash, except a little more straw.
The next plot was good and I did not wait for the question, but simply
said, “ammonia,” and the next “ammonia,” and the next “ammonia.”
--Standing still and looking at the wheat, my father asked, “Joe, where
can I get this ammonia?” He had previously been a little skeptical as to
the value of chemistry, and had not a high opinion of “book farmers,”
but that wheat-crop compelled him to admit “that perhaps, after all,
there might be some good in it.” At any rate, he wanted to know where
he could get ammonia. And, now, as then, every good farmer asks the same
question: “Where can I get ammonia?” Before we attempt to answer the
question, let us look at the next year’s experiments.--The following
is the results of the experiments the seventh year, 1849-50. After the
  Harvest of 1849 the Field Was Tile-Drained in Every Alternate Furrow,
  2 to 3 Feet Deep. Manures and Seed (Red Cluster), Sown Autumn, 1849.  | 250 | 250 | .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 200 | .. |
   8b |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 200 | .. |
   9a |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 200 | .. |
   9b |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 200 | .. |
  10a |  .. | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  | 200 | 200 | .. |
  10b |  .. | 300 | 200 | 100 | 200 | 150 | ..  | ..  | ..  | ..  ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. |  .. |  .. |  .. | .. | .. |  1
  28  2   |61.9 | 98 |1861|3245|5106|  859|1526 | 2385|5.4 |57.3|  2
  15  3¼  |60.6 | 44 |1002|1719|2721|  .. |  .. |  .. |4.5 |58.2|  3
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  27  3   |61.2 | 87 |1785|3312|5097|  783|1593 | 2376|5.1 |53.9|  4
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  29  3½  |60.4 |171 |1974|4504|6478|  972|2785 | 3757|9.5 |43.8|  5a
  30  3   |60.4 |160 |2018|4379|6397| 1016|2660 | 3676|8.6 |46.1|  5b
  30  0½  |61.1 |119 |1960|3927|5887|  958|2208 | 3166|6.3 |49.9|  6a
  29  3½  |61.3 |148 |1980|3959|5939|  978|2240 | 3218|8.0 |50.0|  6b
  32  1   |61.0 |167 |2134|4485|6619| 1132|2766 | 3898|8.4 |47.9|  7a
  32  0¼  |61.2 |150 |2112|4280|6392| 1110|2561 | 3671|7.6 |49.4|  7b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  28  3   |61.1 |101 |1856|3407|5263|  854|1688 | 2542|5.5 |54.5|  8a
  30  1   |61.0 |103 |1948|3591|5539|  946|1872 | 2818|5.6 |54.2|  8b
  30  1½  |60.4 |118 |1951|3550|5501|  949|1831 | 2780|6.3 |55.0|  9a
  27  2¾  |60.8 | 80 |1762|3165|4927|  760|1446 | 2206|4.7 |55.7|  9b
  26  3¾  |60.2 |100 |1721|3089|4810|  719|1370 | 2089|6.1 |55.7| 10a
  17  3¾  |61.1 | 76 |1171|1949|3120|  169| 230 |  399|6.8 |60.1| 10b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  30  3¼  |61.0 |121 |2001|3806|5807|  999|2087 | 3086|6.4 |52.6| 11a
  29  1½  |61.1 |145 |1940|3741|5681|  938|2022 | 2960|8.0 |51.9| 11b
  29  3¾  |61.5 | 94 |1935|3921|5856|  933|2202 | 3135|5.1 |49.4| 12a
  30  3¾  |61.4 |115 |2013|3905|5918| 1011|2186 | 3197|5.9 |51.5| 12b
  31  3¾  |60.2 |105 |2027|4026|6053| 1025|2307 | 3332|5.4 |50.3| 13a
  30  1½  |61.0 |111 |1964|4008|5972|  962|2289 | 3251|6.0 |49.0| 13b
  31  1¾  |61.1 |102 |2023|4052|6075| 1021|2333 | 3354|5.3 |49.9| 14a
  31  1½  |61.5 | 65 |1995|4015|6010|  993|2296 | 3289|3.2 |49.7| 14b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  26  0¼  |61.5 | 90 |1693|3321|5014|  691|1602 | 2293|5.7 |51.0| 15a
  30  3½  |61.0 | 59 |1942|3926|5868|  940|2207 | 3147|3.0 |49.5| 15b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  33  2½  |60.3 |108 |2134|5103|7237| 1132|3384 | 4516|5.3 |41.8| 16a
  33  3   |60.4 |122 |2159|4615|6774| 1157|2896 | 4053|6.0 |46.8| 16b
  31  1   |61.2 | 73 |1985|4126|6111|  983|2407 | 3390|3.8 |48.1| 17a
  29  2½  |61.5 |139 |1961|4034|5995|  959|2315 | 3274|7.7 |48.6| 17b
  29  3¼  |61.2 |110 |1934|3927|5861|  932|2208 | 3140|6.1 |49.3| 18a
  28  2½  |60.9 |103 |1845|3844|5689|  843|2125 | 2968|5.7 |48.0| 18b
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |
  29  0   |60.8 | 88 |1850|3527|5377|  848|1808 | 2656|4.9 |52.4| 19
  14  0   |59.1 | 40 | 868|1639|2507| -134| -80 | -214|4.5 |53.0| 20
  ..  ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. |  .. | ..  |  .. | .. | .. |}21
          |     |    |    |    |    |     |     |     |    |    |}22
  --------+---- +----+----+----+----+-----+-----+-----+----+----+----

The summer of 1850 was unusually cool and unfavorable for wheat. It will be seen that on all
the plots the yield of grain is considerably lower than last year, with a greater growth of straw.

You will notice that 10b, which last year gave, with ammonia-salts alone, 32¼ bushels, this
year, with superphosphate, potash, soda, and sulphate of magnesia, gives less than 18 bushels,
while the adjoining plot, dressed with ammonia, gives nearly 27 bushels. In other words, the
ammonia alone gives 9 bushels per acre more than this large dressing of superphosphate, potash,
etc.

On the three plots, 8a, 8b and 9a, a dressing of ammonia-salts alone gives in each case, a
larger yield, both of grain and straw, than the 14 tons of barn-yard manure on plot 2. And
recollect that this plot has now received 98 tons of manure in seven years.

“That,” said the Doctor, “is certainly a very remarkable fact.”

“It is so,” said the Deacon.

“But what of it?” asked the Squire, “even the Professor, here, does not advise the use of ammonia-salts
for wheat.”

“That is so,” said I, “but perhaps I am mistaken. Such facts as those just given, though I
have been acquainted with them for many years, sometimes incline me to doubt the soundness
of my conclusions. Still, on the whole, I think I am right.”

“We all know,” said the Deacon, “that you have great respect for your own opinions.”

“Never mind all that,” said the Doctor, “but tell us just what you think on this subject.”

“In brief,” said I, “my opinion is this. We need ammonia for wheat. But though ammonia-salts
and nitrate of soda can often be used with decided profit, yet I feel sure that we can get
ammonia or nitrogen at a less cost per lb. by buying bran, malt-roots, cotton-seed cake, and
other foods, and using them for the double purpose of feeding stock and making manure.”

“I admit that such is the case,” said the Doctor, “but here is a plot of land that has now
had 14 tons of manure every year for seven years, and yet there is a plot along side, dressed
with ammonia-salts furnishing less than half the ammonia contained in the 14 tons of manure,
that produces a better yield of wheat.”

“That,” said I, “is simply because the nitrogen in the manure is not in an available condition.
And the practical question is, how to make the nitrogen in our manure more immediately available.
It is one of the most important questions which agricultural science is called upon to answer.
Until we get more light, I feel sure in saying that one of the best methods is, to feed our
animals on richer and more easily digested food.”

The following table gives the results of the eighth season of 1850-51. Manures and
  Seed (Red Cluster), Sown Autumn, 1850.

  Manures
  FM Farm-yard Manure.
  WSC Cut Wheat-straw and Chaff.
  CS  Common Salt.
  SP Sulphate of Potass. | .. |
      |     |    |      |    |    |    |    |    |     |    |    |    |
   5a |  .. | .. |  ..  |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | ..  |300 |300 | .. |
   5b |  .. | .. |  ..  |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | ..  |300 |300 | .. |5000|  ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | .. | .. | .. |
   8b |  .. | .. |  ..  |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | ..  |100 |100 | .. | .. |  ..  |200 |100 | .. |200 |150 | ..  |200 |200 | .. |
  12b |  .. | .. |  ..  |200 |100 | .. | .. |  ..  |200 | .. |100 |200 |150 | ..  |200 |200 | .. |
  14b |  .. | .. |  ..  |200 | .. |100 |200 |150 | ..  |200 |200 | .. |
      |     |    |      |    |    |    |    |    |     |    |    |    |
  15a |  .. | .. |  ..  |200 |100 |100 |200 | .. | 200 |400 | .. | .. |
  15b |  .. | .. |  ..  |200 |100 |100 |200 | .. | 200 |400 | .. |500 |
      |     |    |      |    |    |    |    |    |     |    |    |    |
  16a |  .. | .. |336[1]|200 |100 |100 |200 |150 | ..  |300 |300 | .. |
  16b |  .. | .. |  ..  |200 |100 |100 |200 |150 | ..  |300 |300 | .. |
  17a |  .. | .. |  ..  |200 |100 |100 |200 |150 | ..  |200 |200 | .. |
  17b |  .. | .. |  ..  |200 |100 |100 |200 |150 | ..  |200 |200 | .. |
  18a |  .. | .. |  ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  |200 |200 | .. |
  18b |  .. | .. |  ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | .. | .. | .. |
  21} |Unmanured{|  ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | .. | .. | .. |
  22} |         {|  ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | .. | .. | ..
  S&C    Straw and Chaff. |    |    |
  18  3½  |61.9 |125 |1296|1862|3158|  213 |  235|  448 |10.7|69.6| 0
  18  1¼  |61.7 |124 |1251|1845|3096|  168 |  218|  386 |11.0|67.8| 1
  29  2½  |63.6 |166 |2049|3094|5143|  966 | 1467| 2433 | 8.8|66.2| 2
  15  3½  |61.1 |114 |1083|1627|2710|  ..  |  .. |  ..  |11.8|66.6| 3
          |     |    |    |    |    |      |     |      |    |    |
  28  0½  |62.6 |159 |1919|2949|4868|  836 | 1322| 2158 | 9.0|65.1| 4
          |     |    |    |    |    |      |     |      |    |    |
  36  0   |63.3 |194 |2473|4131|6604| 1390 | 2504| 3894 | 8.6|59.9| 5a
  37  3¾  |63.3 |213 |2611|4294|6905| 1528 | 2667| 4195 | 8.9|60.8| 5b
  33  1¾  |63.3 |154 |2271|3624|5895| 1188 | 1997| 3185 | 7.2|62.6| 6a
  31  0¼  |62.3 |189 |2119|3507|5626| 1036 | 1880| 2916 | 9.8|60.4| 6b
  36  3½  |63.0 |201 |2524|4587|7111| 1441 | 2960| 4401 | 8.7|55.0| 7a
  37  1½  |63.0 |178 |2532|4302|6834| 1449 | 2675| 4124 | 7.6|58.8| 7b
          |     |    |    |    |    |      |     |      |    |    |
  26  0¾  |62.8 |141 |1785|2769|4554|  702 | 1142| 1844 | 8.6|64.5| 8a
  27  2¼  |62.6 |137 |1863|2830|4693|  780 | 1203| 1983 | 7.9|65.8| 8b
  31  1½  |62.4 |182 |2142|3252|5394| 1059 | 1625| 2684 | 9.3|65.9| 9a
  29  0¾  |62.0 |170 |1970|2942|4912|  887 | 1315| 2202 | 9.5|67.0| 9b
  28  3½  |61.9 |179 |1966|3070|5036|  883 | 1443| 2326 |10.0|64.0|10a
  28  2½  |62.5 |149 |1937|3048|4985|  854 | 1421| 2275 | 8.3|63.5|10b
          |     |    |    |    |    |      |     |      |    |    |
  32  2¾  |62.3 |181 |2216|3386|5602| 1133 | 1759| 2892 | 8.9|65.4|11a
  31  2¾  |62.5 |181 |2163|3302|5465| 1080 | 1675| 2755 | 9.1|65.5|11b
  32  3   |63.1 |165 |2234|3600|5834| 1151 | 1973| 3124 | 8.0|62.0|12a
  32  2¼  |62.5 |166 |2203|3581|5784| 1120 | 1954| 3074 | 8.2|61.5|12b
  30  2¾  |62.6 |180 |2102|3544|5646| 1019 | 1917| 2936 | 9.4|59.3|13a
  30  3¼  |62.3 |160 |2083|3440|5523| 1000 | 1813| 2813 | 8.3|60.5|13b
  31  0¼  |62.9 |168 |2120|3605|5725| 1037 | 1978| 3015 | 8.6|58.8|14a
  31  0½  |62.8 |165 |2121|3537|5658| 1038 | 1910| 2948 | 8.4|59.9|14b
          |          |    |    |    |      |     |      |    |    |
  27  0½  |62.7 |138 |1839|3041|4880|  756 | 1414| 2170 | 8.1|60.5|15a
  30  2½  |62.9 |148 |2077|3432|5509|  994 | 1805| 2799 | 7.6|60.5|15b
          |     |    |    |    |    |      |     |      |    |    |
  36  3¼  |63.5 |161 |2499|4234|6733| 1416 | 2607| 4023 | 6.9|59.0|16a
  36  2¾  |63.4 |176 |2501|4332|6833| 1418 | 2705| 4123 | 7.6|57.7|16b
  31  3½  |63.3 |131 |2149|3597|5746| 1066 | 1970| 3036 | 6.5|59.7|17a
  30  2¼  |63.1 |152 |2079|3406|5485|  996 | 1779| 2775 | 7.9|61.0|17b
  30  3¼  |63.0 |139 |2083|3390|5473| 1000 | 1763| 2763 | 7.2|64.1|18a
  31  0¾  |62.4 |143 |2090|3586|5676| 1007 | 1959| 2966 | 7.3|58.3|18b
          |     |    |    |    |    |      |     |      |    |    |
  30  1   |62.4 |144 |2031|3348|5379|  948 | 1721| 2669 | 7.7|60.7|19
  14  1   |60.8 | 89 | 956|1609|2565| -127 |  -18| -145 |10.2|59.4|20
          |     |    |    |    |    |      |     |      |    |    |21}
  17  3¼  |61.9 |127 |1232|1763|2995|  149 |  136|  285 |11.5|69.9|22}
  --------+-----+----+----+----+----+------+-----+------+----+----+---

The plot continuously unmanured, gives about 16 bushels of wheat per acre.

The plot with barn-yard manure, nearly 30 bushels per acre.

400 lbs. of ammonia-salts alone, on plot 9a, 31¼ bushels; on 9b, 29 bushels; on 10a and 10b,
nearly 29 bushels each. This is remarkable uniformity.

400 lbs. ammonia-salts and a large quantity of mineral manures in addition, on twelve different
plots, average not quite 32 bushels per acre.

“The superphosphate and minerals,” said the Deacon, “do not seem to do much good, that is a fact.”

You will notice that 336 lbs. of common salt was sown on plot 16a. It does not seem to have
done the slightest good. Where the salt was used, there is 2 lbs. less grain and 98 lbs. less
straw than on the adjoining plot 16b, where no salt was used, but otherwise manured alike.
It would seem, however, that the quality of the grain was slightly improved by the salt. The
salt was sown in March as a top-dressing.

“It would have been better,” said the Deacon. “to have sown it in autumn with the other manures.”

“The Deacon is right,” said I, “but it so happens that the next year and the year after, the
salt was applied at the same time as the other manures. It gave an increase of 94 lbs. of grain
and 61 lbs. of straw in 1851, but the following year the same quantity of salt used on the
same plot did more harm than good.”

Before we leave the results of this year, it should be observed that on 8a, 5,000 lbs. of cut
straw and chaff were used per acre. I do not recollect seeing anything in regard to it. And
yet the result was very remarkable--so much so indeed, that it is a matter of regret that the
experiment was not repeated.

This 5,000 lbs. of straw and chaff gave an increase of more than 10 bushels per acre over the
continuously unmanured plot.

“Good,” said the Deacon, “I have always told you that you under-estimated the value of straw,
especially in regard to its mechanical action.”

I did not reply to this remark of the good Deacon. I have never doubted the good effects of
anything that lightens up a clay soil and renders it warmer and more porous. I suppose the
great benefit derived from this application of straw must be attributed to its ameliorating
action on the soil. The 5,000 lbs. of straw and chaff produced a crop within nearly 3 bushels
per acre of the plot manured every year with 14 tons of barn-yard manure.

“I am surprised,” said the Doctor, “that salt did no good. I have seen many instances in which
it has had a wonderful effect on wheat.”

“Yes,” said I, “and our experienced friend, John Johnston, is very decidedly of the opinion
that its use is highly profitable. He sows a barrel of salt per acre broadcast on the land
at the time he sows his wheat, and I have myself seen it produce a decided improvement in the
crop.”

We have now given the results of the first eight years of the experiments. From this time forward,
the same manures were used year after year on the same plot. Such another set of experiments
are not to be found in the world, and they deserve and will receive the careful study of every
intelligent American farmer.

“I am with you there,” said the Deacon. “You seem to think that I do not appreciate the labors
of scientific men. I do. Such experiments as these we are examining command the respect of
every intelligent farmer. I may not fully understand them, but I can see clearly enough that
they are of great value.”

  Experiments at Rothamsted on the Growth of Wheat, Year After Year,
  on the Same Land.
  CS  Common Salt.
  NS  Nitrate of Soda.
  RC  Rape-cake.

--------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
        | Manures per Acre per Annum for 12 Years, 1851-2 to           |
        | 1862-3 inclusive, except in the cases explained in the       |
        | Notes on p. 203.                                             |
    P   +-----+-----+----+----+----+----+---------------+----+----+----+
    l   |     |     |    |    |    |    | Superphosphate|    |    |    |
    o   |     |     |    |    |    |    |  of Lime. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | .. | .. | .. |
     5a | ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | .. | ..  | .. | .. | .. |
     5b | ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | .. | ..  | .. | .. | .. |
     6a | ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | .. | 100 |100 | .. | .. |
     6b | ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | .. | 100 |100 | .. | ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | .. | 300 |300 | .. | .. |
     8b | ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | .. | 300 |300 | .. | .. |
[2]  9a | ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | .. | ..  | .. |550 | .. |
[3]  9b | ..  |  .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | .. |550 | ..  |  .. | .. |550 | .. |200 |150 | .. | 200 |200 | .. | .. |
    12b | ..  |  .. | .. |550 | ..  |  .. | .. | .. |420 |200 |150 | .. | 200 |200 | .. | .. |
    14b | ..  |  .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |336[4]|300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | .. | 400 |400 | .. | .. |
    16b | ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | .. | 400 |400 | .. | .. |
[5]{17a | ..  |  .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | 200 |200 | .. | .. |
   {17b | ..  |  .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | 200 |200 | .. | .. |
[5]{18a | ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 |200 |150 | .. | ..  | .. | .. | .. |
   {18b | ..  |  ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 | .. | .. | .. | ..  |100 | .. | .. |
    22  | ..  |  .. |300 |200 |100 | .. | .. | .. | 100 | .. | .. | .. |
--------+-----+-----+----+----+----+----+----+----+-----+----+----+----+

  * For the particulars of the produce of each separate season,
  see Tables X.-XXI. inclusive.

  [Note 1: For the 16th and succeeding seasons--the sulphate of
  potass was reduced from 600 to 400 lbs. per acre per annum on Plot 1,
  and from 300 to 200 lbs. on all the other Plots where it was used; the
  sulphate of soda from 400 to 200 lbs. on Plot 1, to 100 lbs. on all
  the Plots on which 200 lbs. had previously been applied, and from 550
  to 336½ lbs. (two-thirds the amount) on Plots 12a and 12b; and the
  sulphate of magnesia from 420 to 280 lbs. (two-thirds the amount) on
  Plots 14a and 14b.]

  [Note 2: Plot 9a--the sulphates of potass, soda, and magnesia,
  and the superphosphate of lime, were applied in the 12th and
  succeeding seasons, but not in the 9th, 10th, and 11th; and the amount
  of nitrate of soda was for the 9th season only 475 lbs. per acre, and
  for the 10th and 11th seasons only 275 lbs.]

  [Note 3: Plot 9b--in the 9th season only 475 lbs. of nitrate of
  soda were applied.]

  [Note 4: Common salt--not applied after the 10th season.]

  [Note 5: Plots 17a and 17b, and 18a and 18b--the manures on
  these plots alternate: that is, Plots 17 were manured with
  ammonia-salts in the 9th season; with the sulphates of potass, soda,
  and magnesia, and superphosphate of lime, in the 10th; ammonia-salts
  again in the 11th; the sulphates of potass, soda, and magnesia, and
  superphosphate of lime, again in the 12th, and so on. Plots 18, on the
  other hand, had the sulphates of potass, soda, and magnesia, and
  superphosphate of lime, in the 9th season; ammonia-salts in the 10th,
  and so on, alternately.]

  Table X.--Produce of the 9th Season, 1851-2. Seed (Red Cluster)
  sown November 7, 1851; Crop cut August 24, 1852.

  Table XI.--Produce of the 10th Season, 1853. Seed (Red Rostock)
  sown March 16; Crop cut September 10, and carted September 20, 1853.

  Qty.   Quantity.
  Wt/Bu. Weight per Bushel.
  TC     Total Corn.
  TP/C&S Total Produce (Corn and Straw).

  -----+----------------------------||-----+----------------------------
       |  Produce per Acre,         ||     |  Produce per Acre,
       |  etc. (For the Manures     ||     |  etc. (For the Manures
    P  |  see pp. 202 and 203.)     ||  P  |  see pp. 202 and 203.)
    l  +----------------+-----+-----||  l  +----------------+-----+-----
    o  |  Dressed Corn. |     |     ||  o  |  Dressed Corn. |     |
    t  +---------+------+     | TP  ||  t  +---------+------+     | TP
    s  |   Qty.  |Wt/Bu.|  TC | C&S ||  s  |   Qty.  |Wt/Bu.|  TC | C&S
  -----+---------+------+-----+-----||-----+---------+------+-----+-----
       | Bu. Pks.| lbs. | lbs.| lbs.||     | Bu. Pks.| lbs. | lbs.| lbs.
    0  | 15   0¾ | 55.8 |  919| 2625||  0  |  9   0¾ | 49.1 |  599| 2406
    1  | 13   1  | 56.9 |  825| 2322||  1  |  6   1¾ | 46.1 |  404| 2036
    2  | 27   2¼ | 58.2 | 1716| 5173||  2  | 19   0½ | 51.1 | 1120| 4492
    3  | 13   3¼ | 56.6 |  860| 2457||  3  |  5   3¼ | 45.1 |  359| 1772
    4  | 13   1¼ | 57.3 |  870| 2441||  4  |  7   1  | 46.1 |  446| 2116
       |         |      |     |     ||     |         |      |     |
    5a | 16   3  | 57.5 | 1038| 2941||  5a | 10   0  | 48.9 |  587| 2538
    5b | 17   0¼ | 57.3 | 1065| 3097||  5b | 10   1  | 48.9 |  611| 2741
    6a | 20   3  | 57.6 | 1288| 3869||  6a | 16   3¼ | 51.8 |  978| 3755
    6b | 20   3½ | 57.5 | 1300| 3904||  6b | 19   1  | 51.8 | 1072| 3870
    7a | 26   2½ | 56.0 | 1615| 5465||  7a | 23   2½ | 52.2 | 1369| 5110
    7b | 26   3¾ | 55.8 | 1613| 5415||  7b | 23   2¼ | 51.1 | 1357| 5091
    8a | 27   3½ | 55.9 | 1699| 5505||  8a | 22   1¼ | 51.1 | 1346| 5312
    8b | 27   0½ | 55.9 | 1651| 5423||  8b | 24   2¼ | 51.1 | 1425| 5352
       |         |      |     |     ||     |         |      |     |
    9a | 25   2  | 55.6 | 1591| 5305||  9a | 11   1  | 47.7 |  691| 3090
    9b | 24   1¾ | 55.3 | 1509| 4883||  9b | 10   1¾ | 46.1 |  649| 2902
       |         |      |     |     ||     |         |      |     |
   10a | 21   3½ | 55.9 | 1320| 4107|| 10a |  9   3¾ | 48.9 |  642| 2691
   10b | 22   0¼ | 57.3 | 1343| 4162|| 10b | 15   2  | 49.8 |  896| 3578
   11a | 24   0¾ | 55.6 | 1472| 4553|| 11a | 17   2  | 50.1 | 1015| 3539
   11b | 22   1½ | 55.9 | 1387| 4299|| 11b | 18   2¾ | 51.1 | 1073| 3780
   12a | 24   1¾ | 57.4 | 1503| 4760|| 12a | 22   0  | 52.0 | 1283| 4948
   12b | 24   1¼ | 57.3 | 1492| 4721|| 12b | 23   3¼ | 51.1 | 1375| 5079
   13a | 24   0  | 57.5 | 1480| 4702|| 13a | 22   1¼ | 52.1 | 1341| 5045
   13b | 23   3¾ | 57.1 | 1476| 4765|| 13b | 23   2½ | 51.1 | 1396| 5308
   14a | 24   1¾ | 56.9 | 1507| 5054|| 14a | 21   2  | 51.2 | 1322| 4793
   14b | 25   0¼ | 56.7 | 1530| 5137|| 14b | 23   0¾ | 52.6 | 1347| 5108
       |         |      |     |     ||     |         |      |     |
   15a | 23   1¼ | 57.4 | 1451| 4663|| 15a | 19   0  | 51.1 | 1143| 4504
   15b | 25   0½ | 56.8 | 1520| 4941|| 15b | 23   2½ | 51.1 | 1351| 5107
       |         |      |     |     ||     |         |      |     |
   16a | 28   3½ | 55.0 | 1794| 6471|| 16a | 24   1½ | 52.5 | 1496| 6400
   16b | 28   0  | 54.5 | 1700| 6316|| 16b | 25   3¼ | 52.5 | 1537| 6556
       |         |      |     |     ||     |         |      |     |
   17a | 25   2  | 56.5 | 1577| 5311|| 17a |  8   1¾ | 49.8 |  520| 2516
   17b | 24   1½ | 56.9 | 1520| 4986|| 17b |  8   3¾ | 48.9 |  539| 2551
   18a | 13   3  | 57.0 |  869| 2556|| 18a | 17   3¼ | 52.9 | 1111| 4496
   18b | 14   3¾ | 56.7 |  921| 2685|| 18b | 20   3  | 52.1 | 1256| 5052
       |         |      |     |     ||     |         |      |     |
   19  | 24   3¾ | 56.1 | 1582| 4979|| 19  | 19   1¼ | 52.6 | 1160| 4373
       |         |      |     |     ||     |         |      |     |
   20  | 14   0¾ | 56.6 |  875| 2452|| 20  |  5   3¼ | 47.8 |  425| 2084
   21  | 19   1¾ | 56.9 | 1177| 3285|| 21  | 12   3¾ | 50.4 |  753| 2934
   22  | 19   2¼ | 55.9 | 1176| 3355|| 22  | 10   1  | 49.4 |  592| 2452
  -----+---------+------+-----+-----||-----+---------+------+-----+-----

  Table XII.--Produce of the 11th Season, 1853-4. Seed (Red Rostock)
  sown November 12, 1853; Crop cut August 21, and carted August 31,
  1854.

  Table XIII.--Produce of the 12th Season, 1854-5. Seed (Red Rostock)
  sown November 9, 1854; Crop cut August 26, and carted September 2,
  1855. Seed (Red Rostock)
  sown November 13, 1855; Crop cut August 26, and carted September 3,
  1856.

  Table XV.--Produce of the 14th Season, 1856-7. Seed (Red Rostock)
  sown November 6, 1856; Crop cut August 13, and carted August 22, 1857. Seed (Red Rostock)
  sown November 3 and 11, 1857; Crop cut August 9, and carted August 20,
  1858.

  Table XVII.--Produce of the 16th Season, 1858-9. Seed (Red Rostock)
  sown November 4, 1858; Crop cut August 4, and carted August 20, 1859. Seed (Red Rostock)
  sown November 17, 1859; Crop cut September 17 and 19, and carted
  October 5, 1858.

  Table XIX.--Produce of the 18th Season, 1860-1. Seed (Red Rostock)
  sown November 5, 1860; Crop cut August 20, and carted August 27, 1861. Seed (Red Rostock) sown
  October 25, 1861; Crop cut August 29, and carted September 12, 1862.

  Table XXI.--Produce of the 20th Season, 1862-3. Seed (Red Rostock)
  sown November 17, 1862; Crop cut August 10, and carted August 18,
  1863. It will be seen that the wheat, both in quantity and quality, is
the poorest since the commencement of the experiments. The unmanured
plot gave less than 14 bushels of dressed grain per acre; the plot with
barn-yard manure, less than 28 bushels, and the best yield in the whole
series was not quite 29 bushels per acre, and only weighed 55 lbs. per
bushel. On the same plot, the year before, with precisely the same
manure, the yield was nearly 37 bushels per acre, and the weight per
bushel, 63½ lbs. So much for a favorable and an unfavorable season.

The tenth season (1852-3), was still more unfavorable. The autumn of 1852 was so wet that it
was impossible to work the land and sow the wheat until the 16th of March 1853.

You will see that the produce on the unmanured plot was less than 6 bushels per acre. With
barn-yard manure, 19 bushels, and with a heavy dressing of ammonia-salts and minerals, not
quite 26 bushels per acre. With a heavy dressing of superphosphate, not quite 9¼ bushels per
acre, and with a full dressing of mixed mineral manures and superphosphate, 10 bushels per acre.

The weight per bushel on the unmanured plot was 45 lbs.; with mixed mineral manures, 48½ lbs.;
with ammonia-salts alone, 48½ lbs.; with barn-yard manure, 51 lbs.; and with ammonia-salts
and mixed mineral manures, 52¼ lbs.

Farmers are greatly dependent on the season, but the good farmer, who keeps up the fertility
of his land stands a better chance of making money (or of losing less), than the farmer who
depends on the unaided products of the soil. The one gets 6 bushels per acre, and 1,413 lbs.
of straw of very inferior quality; the other gets 20 to 26 bushels per acre, and 5,000 lbs.
of straw. And you must recollect that in an unfavorable season we are pretty certain to get
high prices.

The eleventh season (1853-4,) gives us much more attractive-looking figures! We have over 21
bushels per acre on the plot which has grown eleven crops of wheat in eleven years without
any manure.

With barn-yard manure, over 41 bushels per acre. With ammonia-salts alone (17a), 45¾ bushels.
With ammonia-salts and mixed minerals, (16b), over 50 bushels per acre, and 6,635 lbs. of straw.
A total produce of nearly 5½ tons per acre.

The twelfth season (1854-5), gives us 17 bushels of wheat per acre on the continuously unmanured
plot. Over 34½ bushels on the plot manured with barn-yard manure. And I think, for the first
time since the commencement of the experiments, this plot produces the largest yield of any
plot in the field. And well it may, for it has now had, in twelve years, 168 tons of barn-yard
manure per acre!

Several of the plots with ammonia-salts and mixed minerals, are nearly up to it in grain, and
ahead of it in straw.

The thirteenth season (1855-6), gives 14½ bushels on the unmanured plot; over 36¼ bushels on
the plot manured with barn-yard manure; and over 40 bushels on 8a, dressed with 600 lbs. ammonia-salts
and mixed mineral manures. It will be noticed that 800 lbs. ammonia-salts does not give quite
as large a yield this year as 600 lbs. I suppose 40 bushels per acre was all that the season
was capable of producing, and an extra quantity of ammonia did no good. 400 lbs. of ammonia-salts,
on 7a, produced 37¼ bushels per acre, and 800 lbs. on 16b, only 37¾ bushels. That extra half
bushel of wheat was produced at considerable cost.

The fourteenth season (1856-7), gives 20 bushels per acre on the unmanured plot, and 41 bushels
on the plot with barn-yard manure. Mixed mineral manures alone on 5a gives nearly 23 bushels
per acre. Mixed mineral manures and 200 lbs. ammonia-salts, on 6a, give 35¼ bushels. In other
words the ammonia gives us over 12 extra bushels of wheat, and 1,140 lbs. of straw. Mineral
manures and 400 lbs. ammonia-salts, on 7b, give 46¼ bushels per acre. Mineral manures and 600
lbs. ammonia-salts, on 8b, give nearly 49 bushels per acre. Mineral manures and 800 lbs. of
ammonia-salts, on 16b, give 50 bushels per acre, and 4,703 lbs. of straw.

“This exceedingly heavy manuring,” said the Deacon, “does not pay. For instance,

  “200 lbs. ammonia-salts give an increase of 12¼ bushels per acre.
   400  ”      ”     ”           ”            23¼      ”     ”
   600  ”      ”     ”           ”            26       ”     ”
   800  ”      ”     ”           ”            27       ”     ”

The Deacon is right, and Mr. Lawes and Dr. Gilbert call especial attention to this point. The
200 lbs. of ammonia-salts contain about 50 lbs. of ammonia, and the 400 lbs., 100 lbs. of ammonia.
And as I have said, 100 lbs. of ammonia per acre is an unusually heavy dressing. It is as much
ammonia as is contained in 1,000 lbs. of average Peruvian guano. We will recur to this subject.

The fifteenth season (1857-8,) gives a yield of 18 bushels of wheat per acre on the continuously
unmanured plot, and nearly 39 bushels on the plot continuously manured with 14 tons of barnyard
manure. Mixed mineral manures on 5a and 5b, give a mean yield of less than 19 bushels per acre.

Mixed mineral manures and 100 lbs. ammonia-salts, on plots 21 and 22, give 23¼ bushels per
acre. In other words:

   25 lbs. ammonia,           gives an increase of  4¼ bush.
     (100 lbs. ammonia-salts)
   50  ”      ”   ,             ”   ”       ”     ”  10       ”
     (200  ”      ”      ”  )
  100  ”      ”   ,             ”   ”       ”     ”  20       ”
     (400  ”      ”      ”  )
  150  ”      ”   ,             ”   ”       ”     ”  23       ”
     (600  ”      ”      ”  )
  200  ”      ”   ,             ”   ”       ”     ”  23       ”
     (800  ”      ”      ”  )

“It takes,” said the Deacon, “about 5 lbs. of ammonia to produce a bushel of wheat. And according
to this, 500 lbs. of Peruvian guano, guaranteed to contain 10 per cent of ammonia, would give
an increase of 10 bushels of wheat.”

“This is a very interesting matter,” said I, “but we will not discuss it at present. Let us
continue the examination of the subject. I do not propose to make many remarks on the tables.
You must study them for yourself. I have spent hours and days and weeks making and pondering
over these tables. The more you study them the more interesting and instructive they become.”

The sixteenth season (1858-9), gives us a little over 18¼ bushels on the unmanured plot. On
the plot manured with 14 tons farmyard manure, 36¼ bushels; and this is the highest yield this
season in the wheat-field. Mixed mineral manures alone, (mean of plot 5a and 5b), give 20½ bushels.

25 lbs. ammonia (100 lbs. ammonia-salts), and mixed minerals, give 25¼ bushels, or an increase
over minerals alone of 4¾ bushels.

   50 lbs. ammonia, an increase of  9¼ bushels.
  100  ”      ”     ”     ”     ”  14        ”
  150  ”      ”     ”     ”     ”  14        ”
  200  ”      ”     ”     ”     ”  14¼       ”

The season was an unfavorable one for excessive manuring. It was too wet and the crops of wheat
when highly manured were much laid. The quality of the grain was inferior, as will be seen
from the light weight per bushel.

The seventeenth season (1859-60,) gives less than 13 bushels per acre on the unmanured plot;
and 32¼ bushels on the plot manured with 14 tons farm-yard manure. This season (1860), was
a miserable year for wheat in England. It was both cold and wet. Mixed mineral manures, on
plots 5a and 5b, gave nearly 16 bushels per acre. 25 lbs. ammonia, in addition to the above,
gave less than 15 bushels. In other words it gave no increase at all.

   50 lbs. ammonia, gave an increase of  6  bushels.
  100  ”      ”      ”   ”    ”        ”  11¾    ”
  150  ”      ”      ”   ”    ”        ”  15¼    ”
  200  ”      ”      ”   ”    ”        ”  16¾    ”

It was a poor year for the wheat-grower, and that, whether he manured excessively, liberally,
moderately, or not at all.

“I do not quite see that,” said the Deacon, “the farm-yard manure gave an increase of nearly
20 bushels per acre. And the quality of the grain must have been much better, as it weighed
3½ lbs. per bushel more than the plot unmanured. If the wheat doubled in price, as it ought
to do in such a poor year, I do not see but that the good farmer who had in previous years
made his land rich, would come out ahead.”

“Good for the Deacon,” said I. “‘Is Saul also among the prophets?’” If the Deacon continues
to study these experiments much longer, we shall have him advocating chemical manures and high
farming!

The eighteenth season (1860-1,) gave less than 11½ bushels per acre on the unmanured plot;
and nearly 35 bushels on the manured plot.

  The mixed mineral manures, gave nearly            15½ bushels.
        ”      ”        ”    and  25 lbs. ammonia   18¼      ”
        ”      ”        ”     ”   50   ”     ”      27¾      ”
        ”      ”        ”     ”  100   ”     ”      35       ”
        ”      ”        ”     ”  150   ”     ”      35       ”
        ”      ”        ”     ”  200   ”     ”      37       ”

The nineteenth season (1861-2,) gave 16 bushels per acre on the unmanured plot, and over 38¼
bushels on the plot manured with farm-yard manure.

  Mixed mineral manures, gave nearly            18  bushels per acre.
    ”      ”       ”   and  25 lbs. ammonia     20¼    ”       ”
    ”      ”       ”    ”   50  ”      ”        28¼    ”       ”
    ”      ”       ”    ”  100  ”      ”        36     ”       ”
    ”      ”       ”    ”  150  ”      ”        39½    ”       ”
    ”      ”       ”    ”  200  ”      ”        36¼    ”       ”

The twentieth season (1862-3), gave 17¼ bushels on the unmanured plot, and 44 bushels per acre
on the manured plot.

  Mixed mineral manures alone gave            19¾ bushels per acre.
    ”      ”       ”    and  25 lbs. ammonia  28¾        ”      ”
    ”      ”       ”     ”   50  ”       ”    39¾        ”      ”
    ”      ”       ”     ”  100  ”       ”    53¾        ”      ”
    ”      ”       ”     ”  150  ”       ”    55¾        ”      ”
    ”      ”       ”     ”  200  ”       ”    56         ”      ”

When we consider that this is the twentieth wheat-crop in succession on the same land, these
figures are certainly remarkable.

“They are so,” said the Deacon, “and what to me is the most surprising thing about the whole
matter is, that the plot which has had no manure of any kind for 25 years, and has grown 20
wheat-crops in 20 successive years, should still produce a crop of wheat of 17¼ bushels per
acre. Many of our farmers do not average 10 bushels per acre. Mr. Lawes must either have very
good land, or else the climate of England is better adapted for wheat-growing than Western
New York.”

“I do not think,” said I, “that Mr. Lawes’ land is any better than yours or mine; and I do
not think the climate of England is any more favorable for growing wheat without manure than
our climate. If there is any difference it is in our favor.”

“Why, then,” asked the Doctor, “do we not grow as much wheat per acre as Mr. Lawes gets from
his continuously unmanured plot?”

This is a question not difficult to answer.

1st. We grow too many weeds. Mr. Lawes plowed the land twice every year; and the crop was hoed
once or twice in the spring to kill the weeds.

2d. We do not half work our heavy land. We do not plow it enough--do not cultivate, harrow,
and roll enough. I have put wheat in on my own farm, and have seen others do the same thing,
when the drill on the clay-spots could not deposit the seed an inch deep. There is “plant-food”
enough in these “clay-spots” to give 17 bushels of wheat per acre--or perhaps 40 bushels--but
we shall not get ten bushels. The wheat will not come up until late in the autumn--the plants
will be weak and thin on the ground; and if they escape the winter they will not get a fair
hold of the ground until April or May. You know the result. The straw is full of sap, and is
almost sure to rust; the grain shrinks up, and we harvest the crop, not because it is worth
the labor, but because we cannot cut the wheat with a machine on the better parts of the field
without cutting these poor spots also. An acre or two of poor spots pull down the average yield
of the field below the average of Mr. Lawes’ well-worked but unmanured land.

3d. Much of our wheat is seriously injured by stagnant water in the soil, and standing water
on the surface. I think we may safely say that one-third the wheat-crop of this county (Monroe
Co., N.Y.), is lost for want of better tillage and better draining--and yet we think we have
as good wheat-land and are as good farmers as can be found in this country or any other!

Unless we drain land, where drainage is needed, and unless we work land thoroughly that needs
working, and unless we kill the weeds or check their excessive growth, it is poor economy to
sow expensive manures on our wheat-crops.

But I do not think there is much danger of our falling into this error. The farmers who try
artificial manures are the men who usually take the greatest pains to make the best and most
manure from the animals kept on the farm. They know what manures cost and what they are worth.
As a rule, too, such men are good farmers, and endeavor to work their land thoroughly and keep
it clean. When this is the case, there can be little doubt that we can often use artificial
manures to great advantage.

“You say,” said the Deacon, who had been looking over the tables while I was talking, “that
mixed mineral manures and 50 lbs. of ammonia give 39¾ bushels per acre. Now these mixed mineral
manures contain potash, soda, magnesia, and superphosphate. And I see where superphosphate
was used without any potash, soda, and magnesia, but with the same amount of ammonia, the yield
is nearly 46 bushels per acre. This does not say much in favor of potash, soda, and magnesia,
as manures, for wheat. Again, I see, on plot 10b, 50 lbs. of ammonia, alone, gives over 43½
bushels per acre. On plot 11b, 50 lbs. ammonia and superphosphate, give 46½ bushels. Like your
father, I am inclined to ask, ‘Where can I get this ammonia?’”

CHAPTER XXVIII.

LIME AS A MANURE.

These careful, systematic, and long-continued experiments of Lawes and Gilbert seem to prove
that if you have a piece of land well prepared for wheat, which will produce, without manure,
say 15 bushels per acre, there is no way of making that land produce 30 bushels of wheat per
acre, without directly or indirectly furnishing the soil with a liberal supply of available
nitrogen or ammonia.

“What do you mean by directly or indirectly?” asked the Deacon.

“What I had in my mind,” said I, “was the fact that I have seen a good dressing of lime double
the yield of wheat. In such a case I suppose the lime decomposes the organic matter in the
soil, or in some other way sets free the nitrogen or ammonia already in the soil; or the lime
forms compounds in the soil which attract ammonia from the atmosphere. Be this as it may, the
facts brought out by Mr. Lawes’ experiments warrant us in concluding that the increased growth
of wheat was connected in some way with an increased supply of available nitrogen or ammonia.”

My father used great quantities of lime as manure. He drew it a distance of 13 miles, and usually
applied it on land intended for wheat, spreading it broad-cast, after the land had received
its last plowing, and harrowing it in, a few days or weeks before sowing the wheat. He rarely
applied less than 100 bushels of stone-lime to the acre--generally 150 bushels. He used to
say that a small dose of lime did little or no good. He wanted to use enough to change the
general character of the land--to make the light land firmer and the heavy land lighter.

While I was with Mr. Lawes and Dr. Gilbert at Rothamsted, I went home on a visit. My father
had a four-horse team drawing lime every day, and putting it in large heaps in the field to
slake, before spreading it on the land for wheat.

“I do not believe it pays you to draw so much lime,” said I, with the confidence which a young
man who has learned a little of agricultural chemistry, is apt to feel in his newly acquired
knowledge.

“Perhaps not,” said my father, “but we have got to do something for the land, or the crops
will be poor, and poor crops do not pay these times. What would you use instead of lime?” --“Lime
is not a manure, strictly speaking,” said I; “a bushel to the acre would furnish all the lime
the crops require, even if there was not an abundant supply already in the soil. If you mix
lime with guano, it sets free the ammonia; and when you mix lime with the soil it probably
decomposes some compounds containing ammonia or the elements of ammonia, and thus furnishes
a supply of ammonia for the plants. I think it would be cheaper to buy ammonia in the shape
of Peruvian guano.”

After dinner, my father asked me to take a walk over the farm. We came to a field of barley.
Standing at one end of the field, about the middle, he asked me if I could see any difference
in the crop. “Oh, yes,” I replied, “the barley on the right-hand is far better than on the
left hand. The straw is stiffer and brighter, and the heads larger and heavier. I should think
the right half of the field will be ten bushels per acre better than the other.”

“So I think,” he said, “and now can you tell me why?” --“Probably you manured one half the
field for turnips, and not the other half.” --“No.” --“You may have drawn off the turnips from
half the field, and fed them off by sheep on the other half.” --“No, both sides were treated
precisely alike.” --I gave it up --“Well,” said he, “this half the field on the right-hand
was limed, thirty years ago, and that is the only reason I know for the difference. And now
you need not tell me that lime does not pay.”

I can well understand how this might happen. The system of rotation adopted was, 1st clover,
2d wheat, 3d turnips, 4th barley, seeded with clover.

Now, you put on, say 150 bushels of lime for wheat. After the wheat the land is manured and
sown with turnips. The turnips are eaten off on the land by sheep; and it is reasonable to
suppose that on the half of the field dressed with lime there would be a much heavier crop
of turnips. These turnips being eaten off by the sheep would furnish more manure for this half
than the other half. Then again, when the land was in grass or clover, the limed half would
afford more and sweeter grass and clover than the other half, and the sheep would remain on
it longer. They would eat it close into the ground, going only on to the other half when they
could not get enough to eat on the limed half. More of their droppings would be left on the
limed half of the field. The lime, too, would continue to act for several years; but even after
all direct benefit from the lime had ceased, it is easy to understand why the crops might be
better for a long period of time.

“Do you think lime would do any good,” asked the Deacon, “on our limestone land?”--I certainly
do. So far as I have seen, it does just as much good here in Western New York, as it did on
my father’s farm. I should use it very freely if we could get it cheap enough--but we are charged
from 25 to 30 cts. a bushel for it, and I do not think at these rates it will pay to use it.
Even gold may be bought too dear.

“You should burn your own lime,” said the Deacon, “you have plenty of limestone on the farm,
and could use up your down wood.”--I believe it would pay me to do so, but one man cannot do
everything. I think if farmers would use more lime for manure we should get it cheaper. The
demand would increase with competition, and we should soon get it at its real value. At 10
to 15 cents a bushel, I feel sure that we could use lime as a manure with very great benefit.

“I was much interested some years ago,” said the Doctor, “in the results of Prof. Way’s investigations
in regard to the absorptive powers of soils.”

His experiments, since repeated and confirmed by other chemists, formed a new epoch in agricultural
chemistry. They afforded some new suggestions in regard to how lime may benefit land.

Prof. Way found that ordinary soils possessed the power of separating, from solution in water,
the different earthy and alkaline substances presented to them in manure; thus, when solutions
of salts of ammonia, of potash, magnesia, etc., were made to filter slowly through a bed of
dry soil, five or six inches deep, arranged in a flower-pot, or other suitable vessel, it was
observed that the liquid which ran through, no longer contained any of the ammonia or other
salt employed. The soil had, in some form or other, retained the alkaline substance, while
the water in which it was previously dissolved passed through.

Further, this power of the soil was found not to extend to the whole salt of ammonia or potash,
but only to the alkali itself. If, for instance, sulphate of ammonia were the compound used
in the experiments, the ammonia would be removed from solution, but the filtered liquid would
contain sulphuric acid in abundance--not in the free or uncombined form, but united to lime;
instead of sulphate of ammonia we should find sulphate of lime in the solution; and this result
was obtained, whatever the acid of the salt experimented upon might be.

It was found, moreover, that the process of filtration was by no means necessary; by the mere
mixing of an alkaline solution with a proper quantity of soil, as by shaking them together
in a bottle, and allowing the soil to subside, the same result was obtained. The action, therefore,
was in no way referable to any physical law brought into operation by the process of filtration.

It was also found that the combination between the soil and the alkaline substance was rapid,
if not instantaneous, partaking of the nature of the ordinary union between an acid and an alkali.

In the course of these experiments, several different soils were operated upon, and it was
found that all soils capable of profitable cultivation possessed this property in a greater
or less degree.

Pure sand, it was found, did not possess this property. The organic matter of the soil, it
was proved, had nothing to do with it. The addition of carbonate of lime to a soil did not
increase its absorptive power, and indeed it was found that a soil in which carbonate of lime
did not exist, possessed in a high degree the power of removing ammonia or potash from solution.

To what, then, is the power of soils to arrest ammonia, potash, magnesia, phosphoric acid,
etc., owing? The above experiments lead to the conclusion that it is due to the clay which
they contain. In the language of Prof. Way, however,

“It still remained to be considered, whether the whole clay took any active part in these changes,
or whether there existed in clay some chemical compound in small quantity to which the action
was due. This question was to be decided by the extent to which clay was able to unite with
ammonia, or other alkaline bases; and it soon became evident that the idea of the clay as a
whole, being the cause of the absorptive property, was inconsistent with all the ascertained
laws of chemical combination.”

After a series of experiments, Prof. Way came to the conclusion that there is in clays a peculiar
class of double silicates to which the absorptive properties of soil are due. He found that
the double silicate of alumina and lime, or soda, whether found naturally in soils or produced
artificially, would be decomposed when a salt of ammonia, or potash, etc., was mixed with it,
the ammonia, or potash, taking the place of the lime or soda.

Prof. Way’s discovery, then, is not that soils have “absorptive properties”--that has been
long known--but that they absorb ammonia, potash, phosphoric acid, etc., by virtue of the double
silicate of alumina and soda, or lime, etc., which they contain.

Soils are also found to have the power of absorbing ammonia, or rather carbonate of ammonia,
from the air.

“It has long been known,” says Prof. Way, “that soils acquire fertility by exposure to the
influence of the atmosphere--hence one of the uses of fallows. * * I find that clay is so greedy
of ammonia, that if air, charged with carbonate of ammonia, so as to be highly pungent, is
passed through a tube filled with small fragments of dry clay, every particle of the gas is
arrested.”

This power of the soil to absorb ammonia, is also due to the double silicates. But there is
this remarkable difference, that while either the lime, soda, or potash silicate is capable
of removing the ammonia from solution, the lime silicate alone has the power of absorbing it
from the air.

This is an important fact. Lime may act beneficially on many or most soils by converting the
soda silicate into a lime silicate, or, in other words, converting a salt that will not absorb
carbonate of ammonia from the air, into a salt that has this important property.

There is no manure that has been so extensively used, and with such general success as lime,
and yet, “who among us,” remarks Prof. Way, “can say that he perfectly understands the mode
in which lime acts?” We are told that lime sweetens the soil, by neutralizing any acid character
that it may possess; that it assists the decomposition of inert organic matters, and therefore
increases the supply of vegetable food to plants: that it decomposes the remains of ancient
rocks containing potash, soda, magnesia, etc., occurring in most soils, and that at the same
time it liberates silica from these rocks; and lastly, that lime is one of the substances found
uniformly and in considerable quantity in the ashes of plants, that therefore its application
may be beneficial simply as furnishing a material indispensable to the substance of a plant.

These explanations are no doubt good as far as they go, but experience furnishes many facts
which cannot be explained by any one, or all, of these suppositions. Lime, we all know, does
much good on soils abounding in organic matter, and so it frequently does on soils almost destitute
of it. It may liberate potash, soda, silica, etc., from clay soils, but the application of
potash, soda, and silica has little beneficial effect on the soil, and therefore we cannot
account for the action of lime on the supposition that it renders the potash, soda, etc., of
the soil available to plants. Furthermore, lime effects great good on soils abounding in salts
of lime, and therefore it cannot be that it operates as a source of lime for the structure
of the plant.

None of the existing theories, therefore, satisfactorily account for the action of lime. Prof.
Way’s views are most consistent with the facts of practical experience; but they are confessedly
hypothetical; and his more recent investigations do not confirm the idea that lime acts beneficially
by converting the soda silicate into the lime silicate.

Thus, six soils were treated with lime water until they had absorbed from one and a half to
two per cent of their weight of lime. This, supposing the soil to be six inches deep, would
be at the rate of about 300 bushels of lime per acre. The amount of ammonia in the soil was
determined before liming, after liming, and then after being exposed to the fumes of carbonate
ammonia until it had absorbed as much as it would. The following table exhibits the results:

  ----------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------
                              |No. 1.|No. 2.|No. 3.|No. 4.|No. 5.|No. 6.
  ----------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------
  Ammonia in 1,000 grains     |      |      |      |      |      |
    of natural soil           | 0.293| 0.181| 0.085| 0.109| 0.127| 0.083
  Ammonia in 1,000 grains     |      |      |      |      |      |
    of soil after liming      | 0.169| 0.102| 0.040| 0.050|  ... | 0.051
  Ammonia in 1,000 grains of  |      |      |      |      |      |
    soil after liming and     |      |      |      |      |      |
    exposure to the vapor     |      |      |      |      |      |
    of ammonia                | 2.226| 2.066| 3.297| 1.076| 3.265| 1.827
  Ammonia in 1,000 grains     |      |      |      |      |      |
    of soil after exposure to |      |      |      |      |      |
    ammonia without liming.   | 1.906| 2.557| 3.286| 1.097| 2.615| 2.028
  ----------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------

    No. 1. Surface soil of London clay.
    No. 2. Same soil from 1½ to 2 feet below the surface.
    No. 3. Same soil 3½ feet below the surface.
    No. 4. Loam of tertiary drift 4 feet below the surface.
    No. 5. Gault clay--surface soil.
    No. 6. Gault clay 4 feet below the surface.

It is evident that lime neither assisted nor interfered with the absorption of ammonia, and
hence the beneficial effect of liming on such soils must be accounted for on some other supposition.
This negative result, however, does not disprove the truth of Prof. Way’s hypothesis, for it
may be that the silicate salt in the natural soils was that of lime and not that of soda. Indeed,
the extent to which the natural soils absorbed ammonia--equal, in No. 3, to about 7,000 lbs.
of ammonia per acre, equivalent to the quantity contained in 700 tons of barn-yard manure--shows
this to have been the case.

The lime liberated one-half the ammonia contained in the soil.

“This result,” says Prof. Way, “is so nearly the same in all cases, that we are justified in
believing it to be due to some special cause, and probably it arises from the existence of
some compound silicates containing ammonia, of which lime under the circumstances can replace
one-half--forming, for instance, a double silicate of alumina, with half lime and half ammonia--such
compounds are not unusual or new to the chemist.”

This loss of ammonia from a heavy dressing of lime is very great. A soil five inches deep,
weighs, in round numbers, 500 tons, or 1,000,000 lbs. The soil, No. 1, contained .0293 per
cent of ammonia, or in an acre, five inches deep, 293 lbs. After liming, it contained .0169
per cent, or in an acre, five inches deep, 169 lbs. The loss by liming is 124 lbs. of ammonia
per acre. This is equal to the quantity contained in 1200 lbs. of good Peruvian guano, or 12½
tons of barn-yard manure.

In commenting on this great loss of ammonia from liming, Prof. Way observes:

“Is it not possible, that for the profitable agricultural use, the ammonia of the soil is too
tightly locked up in it? Can we suppose that the very powers of the soil to unite with and
preserve the elements of manure are, however excellent a provision of nature, yet in some degree
opposed to the growth of the abnormal crops which it is the business of the farmer to cultivate?
There is no absolute reason why such should not be the case. A provision of nature must relate
to natural circumstances; for instance, compounds of ammonia may be found in the soil, capable
of giving out to the agencies of water and air quite enough of ammonia for the growth of ordinary
plants and the preservation of their species; but this supply may be totally inadequate to
the necessities of man. *  *  * Now it is not impossible that the laws which preserve the supply
of vegetable nutrition in the soil, are too stringent for the requirements of an unusual and
excessive vegetation, such as the cultivator must promote.

“In the case of ammonia locked up in the soil, lime may be the remedy at the command of the
farmer--his means of rendering immediately available stores of wealth, which can otherwise
only slowly be brought into use.

“In this view, lime would well deserve the somewhat vague name that has been given it, namely,
that of a ‘stimulant’; for its application would be in some sort an application of ammonia,
while its excessive application, by driving off ammonia, would lead to all the disastrous effects
which are so justly attributed to it.

“I do not wish to push this assumption too far,” says Prof. Way, in conclusion, “but if there
be any truth in it, it points out the importance of employing lime in small quantities at short
intervals, rather than in large doses once in many years.”

“The Squire, last year,” said the Deacon, “drew several hundred bushels of refuse lime from
the kiln, and mixed it with his manure. It made a powerful smell, and not an agreeable one,
to the passers by. He put the mixture on a twenty-acre field of wheat, and he said he was going
to beat you.”

“Yes,” said I, “so I understood--but he did not do it. If he had applied the lime and the manure
separately, he would have stood a better chance; still, there are two sides to the question.
I should not think of mixing lime with good, rich farm-yard manure; but with long, coarse,
strawy manure, there would be less injury, and possibly some advantage.”

“The Squire,” said the Deacon, “got one advantage. He had not much trouble in drawing the manure
about the land. There was not much of it left.”

Lime does not always decompose organic matter. In certain conditions, it will preserve vegetable
substances. We do not want to mix lime with manure in order to preserve it; and if our object
is to increase fermentation, we must be careful to mix sufficient soil with the manure to keep
it moist enough to retain the liberated ammonia.

Many farmers who use lime for the first time on wheat, are apt to feel a little discouraged
in the spring. I have frequently seen limed wheat in the spring look worse than where no lime
was used. But wait a little, and you will see a change for the better, and at harvest, the
lime will generally give a good account of itself.

There is one thing about lime which, if generally true, is an important matter to our wheat-growers.
Lime is believed to hasten the maturity of the crop. “It is true of nearly all our cultivated
crops,” says the late Professor Johnston, “but especially of those of wheat, that their full
growth is attained more speedily when the land is limed, and that they are ready for the harvest
from ten to fourteen days earlier. This is the case even with buckwheat, which becomes sooner
ripe, though it yields no larger a return when lime is applied to the land on which it is grown.”

In districts where the midge affects the wheat, it is exceedingly important to get a variety
of wheat that ripens early; and if lime will favor early maturity, without checking the growth,
it will be of great value.

A correspondent in Delaware writes: “I have used lime as a manure in various ways. For low
land, the best way is, to sow it broadcast while the vegetation is in a green state, at the
rate of 40 or 50 bushels to the acre; but if I can not use it before the frost kills the vegetation,
I wait until the land is plowed in the spring, when I spread it on the plowed ground in about
the same quantity as before. Last year, I tried it both ways, and the result was, my crop was
increased at least fourfold in each instance, but that used on the vegetation was best. The
soil is a low, black sand.”

A farmer writes from New Jersey, that he has used over 6,000 bushels of lime on his farm, and
also considerable guano and phosphates, but considers that the lime has paid the best. His
farm has more than doubled in real value, and he attributes this principally to the use of lime.

“We lime,” he says, “whenever it is convenient, but prefer to put it on at least one year before
plowing the land. We spread from 25 to 40 bushels of lime on the sod in the fall; plant with
corn the following summer; next spring, sow with oats and clover; and the next summer, plow
under the clover, and sow with wheat and timothy. We have a variety of soils, from a sandy
loam to a stiff clay, and are certain that lime will pay on all or any of them. Some of the
best farmers in our County commenced liming when the lime cost 25 cts. a bushel, and their
farms are ahead yet, more in value, I judge, than the lime cost. The man who first commences
using lime, will get so far ahead, while his neighbors are looking on, that they will never
catch up.”

Another correspondent in Hunterdon Co., N.J., writes: “Experience has taught me that the best
and most profitable mode of applying lime is on grass land. If the grass seed is sown in the
fall with the wheat or rye, which is the common practice with us in New Jersey, as soon as
the harvest comes off the next year, we apply the lime with the least delay, and while fresh
slacked and in a dry and mealy state. It can be spread more evenly on the ground, and is in
a state to be more readily taken up by the fine roots of the plants, than if allowed to get
wet and clammy. It is found most beneficial to keep it as near the surface of the ground as
practicable, as the specific gravity or weight of this mineral manure is so great, that we
soon find it too deep in the ground for the fibrous roots of plants to derive the greatest
possible benefit from its use. With this method of application are connected several advantages.
The lime can be hauled in the fall, after the busy season is over, and when spread on the sod
in this way, comes in more immediate contact with the grass and grass-roots than when the land
is first plowed. In fields that have been limed in part in this manner, and then plowed, and
lime applied to the remainder at the time of planting with corn, I always observe a great difference
in the corn-crop; and in plowing up the stubble the next season, the part limed on the sod
is much mellower than that limed after the sod was broken, presenting a rich vegetable mould
not observed in the other part of the field.”

A farmer in Chester Co., Pa., also prefers to apply lime to newly-seeded grass or clover. He
puts on 100 bushels of slaked lime per acre, either in the fall or in the spring, as most convenient.
He limes one field every year, and as the farm is laid off into eleven fields, all the land
receives a dressing of lime once in eleven years.

In some sections of the country, where lime has been used for many years, it is possible that
part of the money might better be used in the purchase of guano, phosphates, fish-manure, etc.;
while in this section, where we seldom use lime, we might find it greatly to our interest to
give our land an occasional dressing of lime.

The value of quick-lime as a manure is not merely in supplying an actual constituent of the
plant. If it was, a few pounds per acre would be sufficient. Its value consists in changing
the chemical and physical character of the soil--in developing the latent mineral plant-food,
and in decomposing and rendering available organic matter, and in forming compounds which attract
ammonia from the atmosphere. It may be that we can purchase this ammonia and other plant-food
cheaper than we can get it by using lime. It depends a good deal on the nature and composition
of the soil. At present, this question can not be definitely settled, except by actual trial
on the farm. In England, where lime was formerly used in large quantities, the tendency for
some time has been towards a more liberal and direct use of ammonia and phosphates in manures,
rather than to develop them out of the soil by the use of lime. A judicious combination of
the two systems will probably be found the most profitable.

Making composts with old sods, lime, and barn-yard manure, is a time-honored practice in Europe.
I have seen excellent results from the application of such a compost on meadow-land. The usual
plan is, to select an old hedge-row or headland, which has lain waste for many years. Plow
it up, and cart the soil, sods, etc., into a long, narrow heap. Mix lime with it, and let it
lie six months or a year. Then turn it, and as soon as it is fine and mellow, draw it on to
the land. I have assisted at making many a heap of this kind, but do not recollect the proportion
of lime used; in fact, I question if we had any definite rule. If we wanted to use lime on
the land, we put more in the heap; if not, less. The manure was usually put in when the heap
was turned.

Dr. Vœlcker analyzed the dry earth used in the closets at the prison in
Wakefield, England. He found that:
                                                             Phosphoric
                                                Nitrogen.    Acid.
   10 tons of dry earth before using
       contained                                   63 lbs.    36 lbs.
   10 tons of dry earth after being used once
       contained                                   74  ”      50  ”
   10 tons of dry earth after being used twice
       contained                                   84  ”      88  ”
   10 tons of dry earth after being used thrice
       contained                                  102  ”     102  ”

After looking at the above figures, the Deacon remarked: “You say 10 tons of dry earth before
being used in the closet contained 62 lbs. of nitrogen. How much nitrogen does 10 tons of barn-yard
manure contain?”

“That depends a good deal on what food the animals eat. Ten tons of average fresh manure would
contain about 80 lbs. of nitrogen.”

“Great are the mysteries of chemistry!” exclaimed the Deacon. “Ten tons of dry earth contain
almost as much nitrogen as 10 tons of barn-yard manure, and yet you think that nitrogen is
the most valuable thing in manure. What shall we be told next?”

“You will be told, Deacon, that the nitrogen in the soil is in such a form that the plants
can take up only a small portion of it. But if you will plow such land in the fall, and expose
it to the disintegrating effects of the frost, and plow it again in the spring, and let the
sun and air act upon it, more or less of the organic matter in the soil will be decomposed,
and the nitrogen rendered soluble. And then if you sow this land to wheat after a good summer-fallow,
you will stand a chance of having a great crop.”

This dry earth which Dr. Vœlcker analyzed appeared, he says, “to be ordinary garden soil, containing
a considerable portion of clay.” After it had been passed once through the closet, one ton
of it was spread on an acre of grass-land, which produced 2 tons 8 cwt. of hay. In a second
experiment, one ton, once passed through the closet, produced 2 tons 7 cwt. of hay per acre.
We are not told how much hay the land produced without any dressing at all. Still we may infer
that this top-dressing did considerable good. Of one thing, however, there can be no doubt.
This one ton of earth manure contained only 1¼ lb. more nitrogen and 1½ lb. more phosphoric
acid than a ton of the dry earth itself. Why then did it prove so valuable as a top-dressing
for grass? I will not say that it was due solely to the decomposition of the nitrogenous matter
and other plant-food in the earth, caused by the working over and sifting and exposure to the
air, and to the action of the night-soil. Still it would seem that, so far as the beneficial
effect was due to the supply of plant-food, we must attribute it to the earth itself rather
than to the small amount of night-soil which it contained.

It is a very common thing in England, as I have said before, for farmers to make a compost
of the sods and earth from an old hedge-row, ditch, or fence, and mix with it some lime or
barn-yard manure. Then, after turning it once or twice, and allowing it to remain in the heap
for a few months, to spread it on meadow-land. I have seen great benefit apparently derived
from such a top-dressing. The young grass in the spring assumed a rich, dark green color. I
have observed the same effect where coal-ashes were spread on grass-land; and I have thought
that the apparent benefit was due largely to the material acting as a kind of mulch, rather
than to its supplying plant-food to the grass.

I doubt very much whether we can afford to make such a compost of earth with lime, ashes, or
manure in this country. But I feel sure that those of us having rich clay land containing,
in an inert form, as much nitrogen and phosphoric acid as Dr. Vœlcker found in the soil to
be used in the earth-closet at Wakefield, can well afford to stir it freely, and expose it
to the disintegrating and decomposing action of the atmosphere.

An acre of dry soil six inches deep weighs about 1,000 tons; and consequently an acre of such
soil as we are talking about would contain 6,200 lbs. of nitrogen, and 3,600 lbs. of phosphoric
acid. In other words, it contains to the depth of only six inches as much nitrogen as would
be furnished by 775 tons of common barn-yard manure, and as much phosphoric acid as 900 tons
of manure. With such facts as these before us, am I to blame for urging farmers to cultivate
their land more thoroughly? I do not know that my land or the Deacon’s is as rich as this English
soil; but, at any rate, I see no reason why such should not be the case.

CHAPTER XXIX.

MANURES FOR BARLEY.

Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert have published the results of experiments with different manures
on barley grown annually on the same land for twenty years in succession. The experiments commenced
in 1852.

The soil is of the same general character as that in the field on the same farm where wheat
was grown annually for so many years, and of which we have given such a full account. It is
what we should call a calcareous clay loam. On my farm, we have what the men used to call “clay
spots.” These spots vary in size from two acres down to the tenth of an acre. They rarely produced
even a fair crop of corn or potatoes, and the barley was seldom worth harvesting. Since I have
drained the land and taken special pains to bestow extra care in plowing and working these
hard and intractable portions of the fields, the “clay spots” have disappeared, and are now
nothing more than good, rather stiff, clay loam, admirably adapted for wheat, barley, and oats,
and capable of producing good crops of corn, potatoes, and mangel-wurzels.

The land on which Mr. Lawes’ wheat and barley experiments were made is not dissimilar in general
character from these “clay spots.” If the land was only half-worked, we should call it clay;
but being thoroughly cultivated, it is a good clay loam. Mr. Lawes describes it as “a somewhat
heavy loam, with a subsoil of raw, yellowish red clay, but resting in its turn upon chalk,
which provides good natural drainage.”

The part of the field devoted to the experiments was divided into 24 plots, about the fifth
of an acre each.

Two plots were left without manure of any kind.

One plot was manured every year with 14 tons per acre of farm-yard manure, and the other plots
“with manures,” to quote Dr. Gilbert “which respectively supplied certain constituents of farm-yard
manure, separately or in combination.”

In England, the best barley soils are usually lighter than the best wheat soils. This is probably
due to the fact that barley usually follows a crop of turnips--more or less of which are eaten
off on the land by sheep. The trampling of the sheep compresses the soil, and makes even a
light, sandy one firmer in texture.

In this country, our best wheat land is also our best barley land, provided it is in good heart,
and is very thoroughly worked. It is no use sowing barley on heavy land half worked. It will
do better on light soils; but if the clayey soils are made fine and mellow, they produce with
us the best barley.

In chemical composition, barley is quite similar to wheat. Mr. Lawes and Dr. Gilbert give the
composition of a wheat-crop of 30 bushels per acre, 1,800 lbs. of grain, and 3,000 lbs. of
straw; and of a crop of barley, 40 bushels per acre, 2,080 lbs. grain, and 2,500 lbs. of straw,
as follows:

  ----------------+----------------+----------------+------------------
                  | In Grain.      | In Straw.      | In Total Produce.
                  +-------+--------+-------+--------+----------+-------
                  | Wheat | Barley | Wheat | Barley |  Wheat   | Barley
                  |  lbs. |   lbs. |  lbs. |   lbs. |    lbs.  |   lbs.
  Nitrogen        |  32.  |   33.  |  13.  |   12.  |    45.   |   45.
  Phosphoric acid |  16.  |   17.  |   7.  |    5.  |    23.   |   22.
  Potash          |   9.5 |   11.5 |  20.5 |   18.5 |    30.   |   30.
  Lime            |   1.  |    1.5 |   9.  |   10.5 |    10.   |   12.
  Magnesia        |   3.5 |    4.  |   3.  |    2.5 |     6.5  |    6.5
  Silica          |   0.5 |   12.  |  99.5 |   63.  |   100.   |   75.
  ----------------+-------+--------+-------+--------+----------+-------

A few years ago, when the midge destroyed our wheat, many farmers in Western New York raised
“winter barley,” instead of “winter wheat,” and I have seen remarkably heavy crops of this
winter barley. It is not now grown with us. The maltsters would not pay as much for it as for
spring barley, and as the midge troubles us less, our farmers are raising winter wheat again.

Where, as with us, we raise winter wheat and spring barley, the difference between the two
crops, taking the above estimate of yield and proportion of grain to straw, would be:

1st. Almost identical composition in regard to nitrogen, phosphoric acid, potash, lime, and
magnesia; but as it has more straw, the wheat-crop removes a larger amount of silica than barley.

2d. The greatest difference is in the length of time the two crops are in the ground. We sow
our winter wheat the last of August, or the first and second week in September. Before winter
sets in, the wheat-plant often throws out a bunch of roots a foot in length. During the winter,
though the thermometer goes down frequently to zero, and sometimes 10° to 15° below zero, yet
if the land is well covered with snow, it is not improbable that the roots continue to absorb
more or less food from the ground, and store it up for future use. In the spring, the wheat
commences to grow before we can get the barley into the ground, though not to any considerable
extent. I have several times sown barley as soon as the surface-soil was thawed out five or
six inches deep, but with a bed of solid frozen earth beneath.

3d. Two-rowed barley does not ripen as early as winter wheat, but our ordinary six-rowed barley
is ready to harvest the same time as our winter wheat.

4th. We sow our barley usually in May, and harvest it in July. The barley, therefore, has to
take up its food rapidly. If we expect a good growth, we must provide a good supply of food,
and have it in the proper condition for the roots to reach it and absorb it; in other words,
the land must be not only rich, but it must be so well worked that the roots can spread out
easily and rapidly in search of food and water. In this country, you will find ten good wheat-growers
to one good barley grower.

“That is so,” said the Deacon; “but tell us about Mr. Lawes’ experiments. I have more confidence
in them than in your speculations. And first of all what kind of land was the barley grown on?”

“It is,” said I, “rather heavy land--as heavy as what the men call ‘clay-spots,’ on my farm.”

“And on those clay-spots,” said the Deacon, “you either get very good barley, or a crop not
worth harvesting.”

“You have hit it exactly, Deacon,” said I. “The best barley I have this year (1878) is on these
clay-spots. And the reason is, that we gave them an extra plowing last fall with a three-horse
plow. That extra plowing has probably given me an extra 30 bushels of barley per acre. The
barley on some of the lighter portions of the field will not yield over 25 bushels per acre.
On the clay-spots, it looks now (June 13) as though there would be over 50 bushels per acre.
It is all headed out handsomely on the clay-spots, and has a strong, dark, luxuriant appearance,
while on the sand, the crop is later and has a yellow, sickly look.”

“You ought,” said the Doctor, “to have top-dressed these poor, sandy parts of the field with
a little superphosphate and nitrate of soda.”

“It would have paid wonderfully well,” said I, “or, perhaps, more correctly speaking, the loss
would have been considerably less. We have recently been advised by a distinguished writer,
to apply manure to our best land, and let the poor land take care of itself. But where the
poor land is in the same field with the good, we are obliged to plow, harrow, cultivate, sow,
and harvest the poor spots, and the question is, whether we shall make them capable of producing
a good crop by the application of manure, or be at all the labor and expense of putting in
and harvesting a crop of chicken-feed and weeds. Artificial manures give us a grand chance
to make our crops more uniform.”

“You are certainly right there,” said the Doctor, “but let us examine the Rothamsted experiments
on barley.”

You will find the results in the following tables. The manures used, are in many respects the
same as were adopted in the wheat experiments already given. The mineral or ash constituents
were supplied as follows:

  Potash--as sulphate of potash.
  Soda--as sulphate of soda.
  Magnesia--as sulphate of magnesia.
  Lime--as sulphate, phosphate, and superphosphate.
  Phosphoric acid--as bone-ash, mixed with sufficient sulphuric
    acid to convert most of the insoluble earthy phosphate of
    lime into sulphate and soluble superphosphate of lime.
  Sulphuric acid--in the phosphatic mixture just mentioned; in
    sulphates of potash, soda, and magnesia; in sulphate of ammonia,
    etc.
  Chlorine--in muriate of ammonia.
  Silica--as artificial silicate of soda.

Other constituents were supplied as under:

  Nitrogen--as sulphate and muriate of ammonia; as nitrate of
    soda; in farm-yard manure; in rape-cake.
  Non-nitrogenous organic matter, yielding by decomposition, carbonic
    acid, and other products--in yard manure, in rape-cake.

The artificial manure or mixture for each plot was ground up, or otherwise mixed, with a sufficient
quantity of soil and turf-ashes to make it up to a convenient measure for equal distribution
over the land. The mixtures so prepared were, with proper precautions, sown broadcast by hand;
as it has been found that the application of an exact amount of manure, to a limited area of
land, can be best accomplished in that way.

The same manures were used on the same plot each year. Any exceptions to this rule are mentioned
in foot-notes.

  Experiments on the Growth of Barley, Year After Year, on the Same
  Land, Without Manure, and With Different Descriptions of Manure, Hoos
  Field, Rothamsted, England.

  Table I.--Showing, taken together with the foot-notes, the
  description and quantities of the manures applied per acre on each
  plot, in each year of the twenty, 1852-1871 inclusive.

  [N.B. This table has reference to all the succeeding Tables].

  ---------+------------------------------------------------------
           |Manures per Acre, per Annum (unless otherwise
   Plots   |             stated in the foot-notes).
  ---------+------------------------------------------------------
     1 O.  |Unmanured continuously
     2 O.  |3½ cwts. Superphosphate of Lime*
     3 O.  |200 lbs. †Sulphate of Potass, 100 lbs. ‡Sulphate
           |  Soda, 100 lbs. Superphosphate
     1 A.  |200 lbs. Ammonia-salts§
     2 A.  |200 lbs. Ammonia-salts, 3½ cwts. Superphosphate
     3 A.  |200 lbs. |275 lbs. Nitrate Soda
    {2 AA. |275 lbs. Nitrate Soda, 3½ cwts. Superphosphate
   ‖{3 AA. |275 lbs. Nitrate Soda, 400 lbs. Rape-cake
    {2 C.  |1000 lbs. Rape-cake, 3½ cwts. Superphosphate
  **{3 C.  |1000 lbs. Nitrate Soda
  ††{2 N.  |275 lbs. Nitrate Soda (550 lbs. †Sulphate Potass, 3½ cwts. Superphosphate
           |  (200 lbs. Superphosphate of Lime”--in all cases, made from 200
  lbs. Bone ash, 150 lbs. Sulphuric acid sp. gr. 1.7 (and water).]

  [†: Sulphate Potass--300 lbs. per annum for the first 6 years,
  1852-7.]

  [‡: Sulphate Soda--200 lbs. per annum for the first 6 years, 1852-7.]

  [§: The “Ammonia-salts”--in all cases equal parts of Sulphate and
  Muriate of Ammonia of Commerce.]

  [‖: Plots “AA” and “AAS”--first 6 years, 1852-7, instead of Nitrate
  of Soda, 400 lbs. Ammonia-salts per annum; next 10 years, 1858-67,
  200 lbs. Ammonia-salts per annum; 1868, and since, 275 lbs. Nitrate
  of Soda per annum. 275 lbs. Nitrate of Soda is reckoned to contain the
  same amount of Nitrogen as 200 lbs. “Ammonia-salts.”]

  [¶: Plots “AAS”--the application of Silicates did not commence until
  1864; in ‘64-5-6, and 7, 200 lbs. Silicate of Soda and 200 lbs.
  Silicate of Lime were applied per acre, but in 1868, and since, 400
  lbs. Silicate of Soda, and no Silicate of Lime.  These plots comprise,
  respectively, one half of the original “AA” plots, and, excepting the
  addition of the Silicates, have been, and are, in other respects,
  manured in the same way as the “AA” plots.]

  [**: 2000 lbs. Rape-cake per annum for the first 6 years, and 1000
  lbs. only, each year since.]

  [††: 300 lbs. Sulphate Potass, and 3½ cwts. Superphosphate of Lime,
  without Nitrate of Soda, the first year (1852); Nitrate alone each
  year since.]

  [‡‡: Sulphate Soda--200 lbs. per annum 1855, 6, and 7.]

  FM  Farm-yard Manure.
  ABT Ashes (burnt-soil and turf).
  SiS Silicate of Soda.
  SPh Superphosphate.
  SMg Sulphate of Magnesia.
  SP  Sulphate of Potass.
  SS  Sulphate of Soda.
  NS  Nitrate of Soda.
  RC  Rape-Cake.
  A-S Ammonia-salts.
 1 O.  | ..  | ..  |    -- unmanured continuously--    | ..
 2 O.  | ..  | ..  | .. | 350| .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | ..
 3 O.  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | 100| 200| 100| .. | ..  | ..
 4 O.  | ..  | ..  | .. | 350| 100| 200| 100| .. | ..  | ..
 1 A.  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | 200
 2 A.  | ..  | ..  | .. | 350| .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | 200
 3 A.  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | 100| 200| 100| .. | ..  | 200
 4 A.  | ..  | ..  | .. | 350| 100| 200| 100| .. | ..  | 200
{1 AA. | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | 275| ..  | ..
{2 AA. | ..  | ..  | .. | 350| .. | .. | .. | 275| ..  | ..
{3 AA. | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | 100| 200| 100| 275| ..  | ..
{4 AA. | ..  | ..  | .. | 350| 100| 200| 100| 275| ..  | ..
{1 AAS.| ..  | ..  | 400| .. | .. | .. | .. | 275| ..  | ..
{2 AAS.| ..  | ..  | 400| 350| .. | .. | .. | 275| ..  | ..
{3 AAS.| ..  | ..  | 400| .. | 100| 200| 100| 275| ..  | ..
{4 AAS.| ..  | ..  | 400| 350| 100| 200| 100| 275| ..  | ..
 1 C.  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | 1000| ..
 2 C.  | ..  | ..  | .. | 350| .. | .. | .. | .. | 1000| ..
 3 C.  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | 100| 200| 100| .. | 1000| ..
 4 C.  | ..  | ..  | .. | 350| 100| 200| 100| .. | 1000| ..
 1 N.  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | 275| ..  | ..
 2 N.  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | 275| ..  | ..
   M.  | ..  | ..  | .. | 350| 100| .. | 100| .. | ..  | ..
 5 O.  | ..  | ..  | .. | 350| .. | 200| .. | .. | ..  | ..
 5 A.  | ..  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | ..
 6{1   | ..  | ..  |    -- unmanured continuously--    | ..
  {2*  | ..  |<..> | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | ..
 7     | 14  | ..  | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. | ..  | ..

  [N.B. The double vertical lines ‖ show that there was a change in the
  description, or quantity, of Manure, at the period indicated, for
  particulars of which see Table I., and foot-notes thereto, p. 231.]

---------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Harvests
------+------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
      |      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
      |      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
Plots | 1852 |1853|1854|1855|1856|1857|1858|1859|1860|1861|1862|1863|
------+------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
      |  bu. |  44½ | 40¾| 56⅝| 48 | 36¼| 49¾‖ 39⅜| 21½| 25⅜| 35 | 31½| 49 |
2 AA. |  43¾ | 42¼| 63¼| 50⅜| 31½| 66½‖ 56¼| 35⅞| 43¼| 55¾| 51 | 60½|
3 AA. |  41¾ | 41¼| 51½| 47¾| 25⅜| 49⅞‖|40⅝| 20⅜| 30¾| 36⅞| 36¼| 54 |
4 AA. |  45⅛ | 44½| 62¾| 49⅝| 37⅝| 64⅞‖|56¼| 35¾| 46¼| 55⅞| 48¾| 59½|
------+------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
Means |  43¾ | 42⅛| 58½| 48⅞| 32⅝| 57¾| 48⅛| 28⅜| 36⅜| 45⅞| 41⅞| 55¾|
------+------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
1 AAS.|      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
2 AAS.|      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
3 AAS.|      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
4 AAS.|      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
------+------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
Means |      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
------+------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
1 C.  |  39⅛ | 39⅞| 60¾| 48½| 36¾| 64⅛‖ 53¾| 38¾| 31¾| 56½| 41 | 51⅞|
2 C.  |  36½ | 36⅛| 60⅝| 53¼| 37⅛| 62¼‖ 57⅜| 41 | 36¾| 56⅞| 45 | 55 |
3 C.  |  33½ | 35¼| 56½| 48⅞| 32⅝| 60¼‖|52 | 34⅛| 35¼| 51⅛| 36 | 53⅛|
4 C.  |  38  | 40⅛| 60¼| 51¾| 35⅜| 62¼‖|57⅛| 35 | 40¾| 53⅝| 45½| 54½|
------+------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
Means |  36¾ | 37⅞| 59½| 50⅝| 35½| 62¼| 55 | 37¼| 36⅛| 54½| 41⅞| 53⅝|
------+------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
1 N.  }(25⅞){‖ 34⅜| 49⅜| 50 | 28½| 47⅞| 37¾| 24⅞| 27⅜| 38¼| 35½| 51½|
2 N.  }     {‖ 37⅛| 53¼| 49⅜| 42 | 58 ‖ 43⅞| 26½| 29¾| 41⅝| 38⅜| 53⅞|
      |      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
M.    |      |    |    ‖ 32⅛| 18¾| 24½| 25⅞‖ 19½| 10⅝| 27⅝| 23⅜| 28⅛|
5 O.  | (36½)‖ 27½| 30¾| 32⅜| 19⅛| 31⅛| 25⅜‖ 16½| 10⅛| 28⅝| 17⅜| 29½|
5 A.  |  36½ | 40⅛| 51⅞| 47⅞| 33⅛| 54⅞| 48⅛‖ 33⅛| 39 | 49⅜| 46⅝| 51½|
      |      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
6{1   |  29  | 26¼| 35⅛| 37¼| 15⅛| 34⅞| 26½| 17⅛| 12¼| 16⅝| 18½| 27¼|
 {2   |  25⅛ | 27⅜| 33¼| 36¼| 15⅞| 31⅛| 25¼| 14¾| 12⅛| 17⅞| 19 | 28⅝|
      |      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
7     |  33  | 36⅛| 56⅜| 50⅛| 32⅛| 51¼| 55 | 40 | 41⅝| 54⅜| 49¾| 59½|
------+------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+

  1st ten: First ten Years, 1852-’61.
  2nd ten: Second ten Years, 1862-’71.
  Total Period: Total Period 20 Years, 1852-’71.

----------------------------------------++--------------------++-------
                Harvests                ||   Average Annual.
| 56⅞| 47½| 50⅞| 44¼‖ 44 | 48¼| 46¼| 46½||    48⅞| 49⅝|49¼    || 2 AA.
| 44⅝| 34⅛| 29¾| 32⅞‖ 27½| 33⅞| 32⅜| 36⅛||    38⅝| 36⅛|37⅜    || 3 AA.
| 56⅜| 48⅞| 50⅞| 45 ‖ 45⅜| 49⅞| 44½| 46 ||    49⅞| 49½|49¾    || 4 AA.
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+----+-------++-------
| 49⅞| 41⅛| 40⅛| 38 | 36 | 41 | 38⅛| 42 ||    44¼| 42⅜|43⅜    || Means
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+----+-------++-------
‖ 44⅛| 34⅞| 37⅞| 32¼‖ 29⅜| 34¾| 35 | 48⅛||   {37¼| 36⅞|37 }   || 1 AAS.
‖ 54⅞| 47¼| 51⅛| 44 ‖ 44⅞| 49⅞| 44¾| 49½||[1]{49¼| 47¼|48¼}[1]|| 2 AAS.
‖ 50 | 41 | 41⅞| 39½‖ 36⅜| 40½| 42¾| 48⅜||   {43⅛| 42  |42⅝}   || 3 AAS.
‖ 59⅛| 50½| 50¾| 45¼‖ 46⅝| 51¾| 47¼| 48⅞||   {51⅜| 48⅝|50 }   || 4 AAS. |  49.1  |51.3|52.8|50.6|48.3|52.0 ‖53.5|47.5|50.7|51.8|50.0|53.9
2 AA. |  49.5  |51.7|52.4|50.1|46.1|53.5 ‖53.3|50.7|51.3|53.5|54.4|55.7
3 AA. |  50.6  |51.3|53.1|50.2|47.3|52.1‖|53.9|47.5|50.4|51.5|51.5|54.5
4 AA. ||
|55.7|53.9|51.1|51.8|54.3|52.4|52.9|55.0||   51.6 | 53.1| 52.3 ||1 O.
|56.8|53.8|53.2|53.9|55.8|54.3|53.6|56.0||   52.0 | 54.4| 53.2 ||2 O.
|56.9|54.5|52.3|52.9|55.7|54.7|54.3|55.4||   51.8 | 54.3| 53.0 ||3 O.
|57.3|54.0|52.7|53.6|55.3|54.6|55.6|55.6||   52.3 | 54.6| 53.4 ||4 O.
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++--------+-----+------++-----
|56.7|54.1|52.3|53.1|55.3|54.0|54.1|55.5||   52.0 | 54.1| 53.0 ||Means
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++--------+-----+------++-----
|55.4|53.8|50.9|51.3|53.3|52.4|54.6|55.6||   51.2 | 53.0| 52.1 ||1 A.
|57.0|52.7|54.4|54.1|54.6|57.0|57.2|55.0||   51.8 | 55.1| 53.5 ||2 A.
|56.4|54.7|52.1|51.9|54.8|54.6|55.4|56.1||   51.5 | 54.1| 52.8 ||3 A.
|57.6|53.5|54.7|54.3|55.6|57.4|57.1|56.5||   52.2 | 55.7| 54.0 ||4 A.
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++--------+-----+------++-----
|56.6|53.7|53.0|52.9|54.6|55.4|56.1|55.8||   51.6 | 54.5| 53.1 ||Means
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++--------+-----+------++-----
|55.5|53.5|50.9|52.4‖53.7|53.1|54.5|54.1||   50.8 | 53.2| 52.0 ||1 AA.
|57.2|52.3|55.0|54.1‖55.6|57.2|56.9|55.9||   51.2 | 55.4| 53.3 ||2 AA.
|56.5|54.8|51.4|51.9‖55.1|53.7|54.6|54.3||   50.8 | 53.8| 52.3 ||3 AA.
|57.6|53.3|55.4|54.6‖56.0|57.1|57.1|56.3||   51.1 | 55.8| 53.4 ||4 AA.
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++--------+-----+------++-----
|56.7|53.5|53.2|53.3|55.1|55.3|55.8|55.2||   51.0 | 54.6| 52.8 ||Means
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++--------+-----+------++-----
‖56.1|54.2|51.8|53.5‖54.2|54.8|55.0|54.6||   {53.9| 54.6| 54.3}||1 AAS.
‖57.2|52.4|55.6|55.1‖56.2|57.4|57.4|55.6||[1]{55.1| 56.7| 55.9}||2 AAS.
‖57.2|54.8|52.5|53.0‖55.5|56.6|55.9|53.8||   {54.4| 55.5| 55.0}||3 AAS.
‖57.0|53.1|55.3|54.1‖56.2|57.8|57.8|55.4||   {54.9| 56.8| 55.8}||4 AAS. | 299  |303 |326 |204 |310 |135 ‖  88 |215 |109 |173 |296 |110
2 AA. | 315  |251 |329 |181 |233 |133 ‖ 134 |320 |118 |190 |133 |143
3 AA. | 318  |236 |334 |212 |290 |108 ‖|118 |265 |122 |138 |364 | 95
4 AA.   ||
| 42 | 47 | 41 | 90 | 21 | 44 | 31 | 48 ||    120|  48|  84    || 1 O.
| 69 | 38 | 21 | 53 | 29 | 89 | 18 | 33 ||     96|  52|  74    || 2 O.
| 43 | 38 | 38 | 64 | 27 | 70 | 18 | 35 ||    101|  46|  74    || 3 O.
| 41 | 28 | 55 | 60 | 25 | 69 | 26 | 48 ||    104|  53|  78    || 4 O.
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+----+--------++
| 49 | 38 | 39 | 67 | 25 | 68 | 23 | 41 ||    105|  50|  78    ||Means
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+----+--------++
| 99 | 58 | 94 |115 | 49 |139 | 23 |105 ||    174| 107| 141    || 1 A.
| 63 | 84 | 64 | 76 | 38 |113 | 26 |189 ||    174| 107| 141    || 2 A.
| 83 | 51 |106 | 94 | 34 | 95 | 24 | 89 ||    173|  95| 134    || 3 A.
|110 | 60 | 63 | 71 | 50 | 21 | 27 |146 ||    165|  78| 122    || 4 A.
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+----+--------++
| 89 | 63 | 82 | 89 | 43 | 92 | 25 |132 ||    171|  94| 133    ||Means
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+----+--------++
|110 | 64 |148 |110 ‖ 46 | 64 | 33 |133 ||    216| 111| 164    || 1 AA.
| 50 |113 |111 | 69 ‖ 46 | 89 | 24 |168 ||    220|  95| 158    || 2 AA.
| 76 | 48 |103 |106 ‖ 59 |111 | 36 |133 ||    214| 113| 164    || 3 AA.
| 46 | 76 |133 |119 ‖ 43 | 78 | 30 | 90 ||    208|  87| 148    || 4 AA.
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+----+--------++
| 71 | 75 |124 |101 | 48 | 86 | 31 |131 ||    215| 102| 159    ||Means
+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+----+--------++
‖ 94 | 55 | 88 | 85 ‖ 49 |121 | 33 | 94 ||    {81|  74|  77}   || 1 AAS.
‖ 53 | 86 | 96 | 66 ‖ 64 | 60 | 23 |153 || [1]{75|  75|  75}[1]|| 2 AAS.
‖ 70 | 50 |141 | 79 ‖ 39 |136 | 29 |130 ||    {85|  84|  85}   || 3 AAS.
‖ 93 | 70 | 80 | 93 ‖ 46 |125 | 26 |175 ||    {84|  93|  89}   || 4 AAS. |  26⅞  | 26⅛| 37⅞| 32⅛| 24½| 23½‖ 19⅛| 14½| 13½| 22 | 21¼| 25⅛|
2 AA. |  28⅜  | 28⅜| 44⅜| 38⅝| 31⅝| 32⅞‖ 32⅝| 26½| 24¼| 31⅝| 31½| 32½|
3 AA. |  26⅜  | 27¼| 37⅞| 34 | 26⅛| 26 ‖|22⅛| 16⅛| 18⅛| 24⅛| 24¾| 27⅞|
4 AA. | cwts.| cwts. ||
 12¾|  8⅛|  9½| 10¼| 11⅝| 11 |  6⅝| 11 ||  13⅜  | 10¼  |11¾    ||1 O.
 15⅝|  9⅛| 12⅝| 12¼|  9⅜| 10⅜|  8 | 12¼||  14⅞  | 11⅞  |13⅜    ||2 O.
 13⅝|  9¾| 10¼| 10⅛|  8⅝| 11 |  8½| 11¼||  13⅞  | 10¾  |12¼    ||3 O.
 16¾| 10 | 12⅞| 12 | 10⅛| 12⅞|  9⅜| 14 ||  16⅛  | 12⅝  |14⅜    ||4 O.
----+----+----+---------+----+----+----++-------+------+-------++------
 14⅝|  9¼| 11¼| 11⅛|  9⅞| 11¼|  8⅛| 12⅛||  14½  | 11⅜  |12⅞    ||Means
----+----+----+---------+----+----+----++-------+------+-------++------
 20⅜| 13 | 15⅜| 17¼| 12¼| 18¼| 12½| 23⅛||  19¾  | 17⅜  |18½    ||1 A.
 32½| 21⅝| 28⅛| 28⅝| 19⅜| 32 | 17⅞| 28⅛||  27⅞  | 27½  |27⅝    ||2 A.
 19¼| 16 | 16¾| 19⅜| 14⅞| 20¾| 15 | 25⅜||  21⅞  | 19¾  |20¾    ||3 A.
 34⅞| 22½| 27⅜| 25½| 20⅞| 34⅜| 18⅝| 32½||  28⅞  | 28   |28½    ||4 A.
----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+------+-------++------
 26¾| 18¼| 21¾| 22⅝| 16¾| 26⅜| 16 | 27¼||  24½  | 23⅛  |23¾    ||Means
----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+------+-------++------
 23¼| 16 | 17¾| 17⅛‖ 14½| 21½| 17⅞| 26¾||  24   | 20⅛  |22⅛    ||1 AA.
 33⅛| 23 | 28⅛| 30⅞‖ 21⅞| 34⅞| 23¾| 32⅛||  31⅞  | 29⅛  |30½    ||2 AA.
 26⅞| 17 | 18⅛| 20¾‖ 16¼| 22¾| 20⅞| 25⅜||  25¾  | 22¼  |24     ||3 AA.
 37¼| 24⅞| 28¼| 28⅜‖ 25⅝| 38⅛| 18¼| 32⅝||  34¾  | 30⅛  |32⅜    ||4 AA.
----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+------+-------++------
 30⅛| 20¼| 23⅛| 24¼| 19⅝| 29¼| 20¼| 29¼||  29   | 25⅜  |27¼    ||Means
+---+----+----+----+----+----+----+----++-------+------+-------++------
‖26⅛| 22⅜| 20⅝| 18½‖ 16⅞| 23¾| 17 | 29¾||   {21⅞| 21⅞  |21⅞}   ||1 AAS.
‖33½| 23¼| 30¼| 29½‖ 25¼| 37⅛| 20⅛| 36⅛||[1]{29⅛| 29⅝  |29⅜}[1]||2 AAS.
‖30¼| 20⅜| 25 | 23⅜‖ 22 | 30⅝| 20½| 31⅛||   {24¾| 26⅛  |25⅜}   ||3 AAS.
‖40¾| 25½| 29½| 28¼‖ 26⅝| 42½| 20¾| 38 ||   {31 | 32   |31½}   ||4 AAS.

It will be seen that this 50 lbs. of ammonia alone, on plot 1a, gives an increase of nearly
10 bushels per acre, or to be more accurate, it gives an increase over the unmanured plot of
503 lbs. of grain, and 329 lbs. of straw, while double the quantity of ammonia on plot 1a.a.,
gives an increase of 17¼ bushels per acre--or an increase of 901 lbs. of grain, and 1,144 lbs.
of straw.

“Put that fact in separate lines, side by side,” said the Deacon, “so
that we can see it.”
                                                              Total
                                           Grain    Straw     Produce.
   50 lbs. of ammonia gives an increase of 503 lbs.  704 lbs. 1207 lbs.
  100 ”    ”   ”       ”    ”    ”     ”   901  ”   1144  ”   2045  ”
  The first 50 lbs. of ammonia gives an
    increase of                            503  ”    704  ”   1207  ”
  The second 50 lbs. of ammonia gives an
    increase of                            398  ”    540  ”    738  ”

“That shows,” said the Deacon, “that a dressing of 50 lbs. per acre pays better than a dressing
of 100 lbs. per acre. I wish Mr. Lawes had sown 75 lbs. on one plot.”

I wish so, too, but it is quite probable that in our climate, 50 lbs. of available ammonia
per acre is all that it will usually be profitable to apply per acre to the barley crop. It
is equal to a dressing of 500 lbs. guaranteed Peruvian guano, or 275 lbs. nitrate of soda.
--“Or to how much manure?” asked the Deacon.

To about 5 tons of average stable-manure, or say three tons of good, well-rotted manure from
grain-fed animals.

“And yet,” said the Deacon, “Mr. Lawes put on 14 tons of yard manure per acre, and the yield
of barley was not as much as from the 50 lbs. of ammonia alone. How do you account for that?”

Simply because the ammonia in the manure is not ammonia. It is what the chemists used to call
“potential ammonia.” A good deal of it is in the form of undigested straw and hay. The nitrogenous
matter of the food which has been digested by the animal and thrown off in the liquid excrements,
is in such a form that it will readily ferment and produce ammonia, while the nitrogenous matter
in the undigested food and in the straw used for bedding, decomposes slowly even under the
most favorable conditions; and if buried while fresh in a clay soil, it probably would not
all decompose in many years. But we will not discuss this at present.

“The superphosphate does not seem to have done much good,” said the Deacon; “3½ cwt. per acre
gives an increase of less than two bushels per acre. And I suppose it was good superphosphate.”

There need be no doubt on that point. Better superphosphate of lime cannot be made. But you
must recollect that this is pure superphosphate made from burnt bones. It contains no ammonia
or organic matter. Commercial superphosphates contain more or less ammonia, and had they been
used in these experiments, they would have shown a better result than the pure article. They
would have done good in proportion to the available nitrogen they contained. If these experiments
prove anything, they clearly indicate that superphosphate alone is a very poor manure for either
wheat or barley.

The second year, the unmanured plot gave 25¾ bushels per acre. Potash, soda, and magnesia,
(or what the Deacon calls “ashes,”) 27⅝ bushels; superphosphate 33½, and “ashes” and superphosphate,
nearly 36 bushels per acre.

50 lbs. of ammonia, alone, gives nearly 39 bushels, and ammonia and superphosphate together,
40 bushels.

The superphosphate and “ashes” give a better account of themselves this year; but it is remarkable
that the ammonia alone, gives almost as good a crop as the ammonia and superphosphate, and
a better crop than the ammonia and “ashes,” or the ammonia, superphosphate, and ashes, together.

The 14 tons farm-yard manure gives over 36 bushels per acre. This plot has now had 28 tons
of manure per acre, yet the 50 lbs. of ammonia alone, still gives a better yield than this
heavy dressing of manure.

The third season (1854), was quite favorable for the ripening of wheat and barley. The seed
on the experimental barley-field, was sown Feb. 24, and the harvest was late; so that the crop
had an unusually long season for growth. It was one of the years when even poor land, if clean,
gives a good crop. The unmanured plot, it will be seen, yielded over 35 bushels per acre of
dressed grain, weighing over 53½ lbs. per bushel. The total weight of grain, was 1,963 lbs.
This is over 40 bushels per acre, of 48 lbs. per bushel, which is the standard with us.

The 14 tons of farm-yard manure produce nearly 56½ bushels per acre.

   50 lbs. of ammonia, on plot 1a.    47¾ bushels per acre.
  100  ”   ”    ”      ”    ”  1a.a.  56⅝      ”        ”

You will see, that though the plot which has received 42 tons of manure
per acre, produced a splendid crop; the plot having nothing except 100
lbs. of ammonia per acre, produced a crop equally good. “How much
increase do you get from 50 lbs. of ammonia,” asked the Deacon, “and how
much from 100 lbs.?”
                                                         Equal Amer.
                                 Grain.      Straw.      Bushels.
   50 lbs. of ammonia,
         gives an increase of      800 lbs.    952 lbs.  16⅔ bush.
  100  ”   ”    ”
           ”   ”     ”     ”     1,350  ”    2,100  ”    28      ”

If you buy nitrate of soda at 3¾ cents a lb., the ammonia will cost 20 cents a lb. In the above
experiment, 50 lbs. of ammonia, costing $10, gives an increase of 16⅔ bushels of barley, and
nearly half a ton of straw. If the straw is worth $4.00 per ton, the barley will cost 48 cents
a bushel.

Double the quantity of manure, costing $20, gives an increase of 28 bushels of barley, and
over one ton of straw. In this case the extra barley costs 57 cents a bushel.

On plot 2a., 50 lbs. of ammonia and 3½ cwt. of superphosphate, give 3,437 lbs. of grain, equal
to 71½ of our bushels per acre.

On plot 2a.a., 100 lbs. of ammonia and 3½ cwt. of superphosphate, give 3,643 lbs. of grain,
which lacks only 5 lbs. of 76 bushels per acre, and nearly 2½ tons of straw.

“That will do,” said the Deacon, “but I see that in 1857, this same plot, with the same manure,
produced 66½ bushels of dressed grain per acre, weighing 53½ lbs. to the bushel, or a total
weight of 3,696 lbs., equal to just 77 of our bushels per acre.”

“And yet,” said the Doctor, “this same year, the plot which had 84 tons of farm-yard manure
per acre, produced only 2,915 lbs. of grain, or less than 61 of our bushels of barley per acre.”

The Squire happened in at this time, and heard the last remark. “What are you saying,” he remarked,
“about only 61 bushels of barley per acre. I should like to see such a crop. Last year, in
this neighborhood, there were hundreds of acres of barley that did not yield 20 bushels per
acre, and very little of it would weigh 44 lbs. to the bushel.”

This is true. And the maltsters find it almost impossible to get six-rowed barley weighing
48 lbs. per bushel. They told me, that they would pay $1.10 per bushel for good bright barley
weighing 48 lbs. per bushel, and for each pound it weighed less than this, they deducted 10
cents a bushel from the price. In other words, they would pay $1.00 a bushel for barley weighing
47 lbs. to the bushel; 90 cents for barley weighing 46 lbs.; 80 cents for barley weighing 45
lbs., and 70 cents for barley weighing 44 lbs.--and at these figures they much preferred the
heaviest barley.

It is certainly well worth our while, if we raise barley at all, to see if we cannot manage
not only to raise larger crops per acre, but to produce barley of better quality. And these
wonderful experiments of Mr. Lawes are well worth careful examination and study.

The Squire put on his spectacles and looked at the tables of figures.

“Like everybody else,” said he, “you pick out the big figures, and to hear you talk, one would
think you scientific gentlemen never have any poor crops, and yet I see that in 1860, there
are three different crops of only 12⅛, 12¼, and 13¼ bushels per acre.”

“Those,” said I, “are the three plots which have grown barley every year without any manure,
and you have selected the worst year of the whole twenty.”

“Perhaps so,” said the Squire, “but we have got to take the bad with the good, and I have often
heard you say that a good farmer who has his land rich and clean makes more money in an unfavorable
than in a favorable season. Now, this year 1860, seems to have been an unfavorable one, and
yet your pet manure, superphosphate, only gives an increase of 148 lbs. of barley--or three
bushels and 4 lbs. Yet this plot has had a tremendous dressing of 3½ cwt. of superphosphate
yearly since 1852. I always told you you lost money in buying superphosphate.”

“That depends on what you do with it. I use it for turnips, and tomatoes, cabbages, lettuce,
melons, cucumbers, etc., and would not like to be without it; but I have never recommended
any one to use it on wheat, barley, oats, Indian corn, or potatoes, except as an experiment.
What I have recommended you to get for barley is, nitrate of soda, and superphosphate, or Peruvian
guano. And you will see that even in this decidedly unfavorable season, the plot 2a.a., dressed
with superphosphate and 275 lbs. of nitrate of soda, produced 2,338 lbs. of barley, or 48¾
bushels per acre. This is an increase over the unmanured plots of 33½ bushels per acre, and
an increase of 1,872 lbs. of straw. And the plot dressed with superphosphate and 200 lbs. of
salts of ammonia, gave equally as good results.”

And this, mark you, is the year which the Squire selected as the one most likely to show that
artificial manures did not pay.

“I never knew a man except you,” said the Squire, “who wanted unfavorable seasons.”

I have never said I wanted unfavorable seasons. I should not dare to say so, or even to cherish
the wish for one moment. But I do say, that when we have a season so favorable that even poorly
worked land will produce a fair crop, we are almost certain to have prices below the average
cost of production. But when we have an unfavorable season, such crops as barley, potatoes,
and beans, often advance to extravagantly high prices, and the farmer who has good crops in
such a season, gets something like adequate pay for his patient waiting, and for his efforts
to improve his land.

“That sounds all very well,” said the Squire, “but will it pay to use these artificial manures?”

I do not wish to wander too much from the point, but would like to remark before I answer that
question, that I am not a special advocate of artificial manures. I think we can often make
manures on our farms far cheaper than we can buy them. But as the Squire has asked the question,
and as he has selected from Mr. Lawes’ results, the year 1860, I will meet him on his own ground.
He has selected a season specially unfavorable for the growth of barley. Now, in such an unfavorable
year in this country, barley would be likely to bring, at least, $1.25 per bushel, and in a
favorable season not over 75 cents a bushel.

Mr. Lawes keeps his land clean, which is more than can be said of many barley-growers. And
in this unfavorable season of 1860, he gets on his three unmanured plots an average of 730
lbs. of barley, equal to 15¼ bushels per acre, and not quite 800 lbs. of straw.

Many of our farmers frequently do no better than this. And you must recollect that in such
careful experiments as those of Mr. Lawes and Dr. Gilbert, great pains would be taken to get
all the barley that grew on the land. With us, barley is cut with a reaper, and admirable as
our machines are, it is not an easy matter to cut a light, spindling crop of barley perfectly
clean. Then, in pitching the crop and drawing it in, more or less barley is scattered, and
even after we have been over the field two or three times with a steel-tooth rake, there is
still considerable barley left on the ground. I think we may safely assume that at least as
much barley is left on the ground as we usually sow--say two bushels per acre. And so, instead
of having 15¼ bushels per acre, as Mr. Lawes had, we should only harvest 13¼ bushels.

Of all our ordinary farm crops, barley is attended with the least labor and expense. We usually
sow it after corn or potatoes. On such strong land as that of Mr. Lawes, we ought to plow the
land in the autumn and again in the spring, or at least stir up the land thoroughly with a
two or three-horse cultivator or gang-plow.

Let us say that the cost of plowing, harrowing, drilling, and rolling, is $5.00 per acre. Seed,
$2.00. Harvesting, $2.00. Threshing, 6 cents a bushel.

Receipts:

  13¼ bushels barley @ 1.25                   $16.57
  800 lbs. of straw @ $4. per ton               1.60
                                              ------
  Putting in and harvesting the crop   $9.00
  Threshing 13¼ bushels @ 6c             .80    9.80
                                              ------
  Rent and profit per acre                    $ 8.37

“That is a better showing than I expected,” said the Squire, “and as barley occupies the land
only a few months, and as we sow wheat after it, we cannot expect large profits.”

“Very well,” said I, “Now let us take the crop, this same unfavorable year, on plot 2a.a.,
dressed with superphosphate and nitrate of soda.”

The expense of plowing, harrowing, drilling, rolling, seed, and harvesting, would be about
the same, or we will say $2.00 an acre more for extra labor in harvesting. And we will allow
two bushels per acre for scatterings--though there is nothing like as much barley left on the
ground when we have a good crop, as when we have a poor crop. But I want to be liberal.

The yield on plot 2a.a., was 48¾ bushels per acre, and 2,715 lbs. of straw.

Receipts:

  46¾ bushels @ $1.25                            $58.43
  2,715 lbs. straw @ $4. per ton                   5.43
                                                 ------
                                                 $63.86
  Putting in the crop and harvesting    $11.00
  Threshing 46¾ bushels @ 6 c             2.80
  275 lbs. nitrate of soda @ 4 c         11.00
  392 lbs. superphosphate @ 2 c           7.84
                                        ------
                                                 $32.64
                                                 ------
  Rent and profit                                $31.22

In ordinary farm practice, I feel sure we can do better than this. Growing barley year after
year on the same land, is not the most economical way of getting the full value of the manure.
There is much nitrogen and phosphoric acid left in the land, which barley or even wheat does
not seem capable of taking up, but which would probably be of great benefit to the clover.

MANURE AND ROTATION OF CROPS.

The old notion that there is any real chemical necessity for a rotation of crops is unfounded.
Wheat can be grown after wheat, and barley after barley, and corn after corn, provided we use
the necessary manures and get the soil clean and in the right mechanical condition.

“What, then, do we gain by a rotation?” asked the Deacon.

Much every way. A good rotation enables us to clean the land. We can put in different crops
at different seasons.

“So we could,” broke in the Deacon, “if we sowed wheat after wheat, barley after barley, and
corn after corn.”

True, but if we sowed winter-wheat after winter-wheat, there would not be time enough to clean
the land.

“Just as much as when we sow wheat after oats, or peas, or barley.”

“True again, Deacon,” I replied, “but we are supposed to have cleaned the land while it was
in corn the previous year. I say supposed, because in point of fact, many of our farmers do
not half clean their land while it is in corn. It is the weak spot in our agriculture. If our
land was as clean as it should be to start with, there is no rotation so convenient in this
section, as corn the first year, barley, peas, or oats the second year, followed by winter-wheat
seeded down. But to carry out this rotation to the best advantage we need artificial manures.”

“But will they pay?” asks the Deacon.

“They will pay well, provided we can get them at a fair price and get fair prices for our produce.
If we could get a good superphosphate made from Charleston phosphates for 1½ cent per lb.,
and nitrate of soda for 3½ or 4 cents per lb., and the German potash-salts for ¾ cent per lb.,
and could get on the average $1.25 per bushel for barley, and $1.75 for good white wheat, we
could use these manures to great advantage.”

“Nothing like barn-yard manure,” says the Deacon.

No doubt on that point, provided it is good manure. Barn-yard manure, whether rich or poor,
contains all the elements of plant-food, but there is a great difference between rich and poor
manure. The rich manure contains twice or three times as much nitrogen and phosphoric acid
as ordinary or poor manure. And this is the reason why artificial manures are valuable in proportion
to the nitrogen and phosphoric acid that they contain in an available condition. When we use
two or three hundred pounds per acre of a good artificial manure we in effect, directly or
indirectly, convert poor manure into rich manure. There is manure in our soil, but it is poor.
There is manure in our barn-yard, but it is poor also. Nitrogen and phosphoric acid will make
these manures rich. This is the reason why a few pounds of a good artificial manure will produce
as great an effect as tons of common manure. Depend upon it, the coming farmer will avail himself
of the discoveries of science, and will use more artificial fertilizers.

But whether we use artificial fertilizers or farm-yard manure, we shall not get the full effect
of the manures unless we adopt a judicious rotation of crops.

When we sow wheat after wheat, or barley after barley, or oats after oats, we certainly do
not get the full effect of the manures used. Mr. Lawes’ experiments afford conclusive evidence
on this point. You will recollect that in 1846, one of the plots of wheat (10b), which had
received a liberal dressing of salts of ammonia the year previous, was left without manure,
and the yield of wheat on this plot was no greater than on the plot which was continuously
unmanured. In other words, the ammonia which was left in the soil from the previous year, had
no effect on the wheat.

The following table shows the amount of nitrogen furnished by the manure, and the amount recovered
in the crop, when wheat is grown after wheat for a series of years, and also when barley is
grown after barley, and oats after oats.

  Table Showing the Amount of Nitrogen Recovered, and Not Recovered, in
  Increase of Produce, for 100 Supplied in Manure.

  ----+-----------------------------------------+---------------------
      |                                         |  For 100 Nitrogen
   P  |                                         |     in Manure
   l  |    Manures Per Acre, Per Annum.         +----------+----------
   o  |                                         |Recovered |Not Rec’d
   t  |                                         |  in      |  in
   s  |                                         |Increase. |Increase.
  ----+-----------------------------------------+----------+----------
         Wheat--20 Years, 1852-1871.
  ----+-----------------------------------------+----------+----------
   6  |Mixed Mineral Manure and 200 lbs.        |          |
      |    Ammonia-salts (=  41 lbs. Nitrogen)  |   32.4   |   67.6
   7  |Mixed Mineral Manure and 400 lbs.        |          |
      |    Ammonia-salts (=  82 lbs. Nitrogen)  |   32.9   |   67.1
   8  |Mixed Mineral Manure and 600 lbs.        |          |
      |    Ammonia-salts (= 123 lbs. Nitrogen)  |   31.5   |   68.5
  16  |Mixed Mineral Manure and 800 lbs.[1]     |          |
      |    Ammonia-salts (= 164 lbs. Nitrogen)  |   28.5   |   71.5
   9A |Mixed Mineral Manure and 550 lbs.[2]     |          |
      |    Nitrate Soda  (=  82 lbs. Nitrogen)  |   45.3   |   54.7
   2  |14 tons Farmyard-Manure every year.      |   14.6   |   85.4
  ----+-----------------------------------------+----------+----------
         Barley--20 Years, 1852-1871.        |          |
      |    Nitrate Soda (=  41 lbs. Nitrogen)   |          |
      |         4 years, 1868-’71               |          |
      |                                         |          |
   4C |Mixed Mineral Manure and 2000 lbs.       |          |
      |    Rape-cake (= 95 lbs. Nitrogen)       |   36.3   |   63.7
      |                  6 years, 1852-’57      |          |
      |Mixed Mineral Manure and 1000 lbs.       |          |
      |    Rape-cake (= 47.5 lbs. Nitrogen)     |          |
      |                 14 years, 1858-’71      |          |
      |                                         |          |
   7  |14 tons Farmyard-Manure every year.      |   10.7   |   89.3
  ----+-----------------------------------------+----------+----------
         Oats--3 Years, 1869-1871.        |          |
      |    Nitrate Soda  (= 82 lbs. Nitrogen)   |   50.4   |   49.6
  ----+-----------------------------------------+----------+----------

  [Note 1: 13 years only, 1852-1864.]

  [Note 2: 475 lbs. Nitrate = 71 lbs. Nitrogen in 1852; 275 lbs.
  = 41 lbs. Nitrogen in 1853 and 1854; 550 lbs. = 82 lbs. Nitrogen
  each year afterwards.]

It is not necessary to make any comments on this table. It speaks for itself; but it does not
tell half the story. For instance, in the case of wheat and barley, it gives the average result
for 20 years. It shows that when 100 lbs. of nitrogen in a soluble and available form, are
applied to wheat, about 68 lbs. are left in the soil. But you must recollect that 100 lbs.
was applied again the next year, and no account is taken of the 68 lbs. left in the soil--and
so on for 20 years. In other words, on plot 8, for instance, 2,460 lbs. of nitrogen have been
applied, and only 775 lbs. have been recovered in the total produce of grain, straw, and chaff,
and 1,685 lbs. have been left in the soil.

Mr. Lawes estimates, from several analyses, that his farm-yard manure contains 0.637 per cent
of nitrogen, 2.76 per cent of mineral matter, and 27.24 per cent of organic matter, and 70
per cent of water.

According to this, the plot dressed with 14 tons of manure every year, for 20 years, has received
3,995 lbs. of nitrogen, of which 583¼ lbs. were recovered in the produce, and 3,411¾ lbs. were
left in the soil.

In the case of barley, 3,995 lbs. of nitrogen was applied during the 20 years to the plot dressed
with farm-yard manure, of which 427½ lbs. were recovered in the crop, and 3,567½ lbs. left
in the soil.

“I see,” said the Deacon, “that barley gets less of the goodness out of farm-yard manure than
wheat, but that it gets more out of the salts of ammonia and nitrate of soda. How do you account
for that?”

“I suppose, because the manure for wheat was applied in the autumn, and the rains of winter
and spring dissolved more of the plant-food than would be the case if the manure was applied
in the spring. If the manure had been applied on the surface, instead of plowing it under,
I believe the effect would have been still more in favor of the autumn-manuring.”

When the nitrogen is in an available condition, spring barley can take up and utilize a larger
proportion of the nitrogen than winter wheat. Neither the wheat nor the barley can get at and
take up half what is applied, and this, notwithstanding the fact that a heavy dew or a slight
rain furnishes water enough on an acre to dissolve a liberal dressing of nitrate of soda or
sulphate and muriate of ammonia. The truth is, the soil is very conservative. It does not,
fortunately for us, yield up all its plant-food in a year.

We have seen that when wheat or barley is dressed with soluble ammonia-salts or nitrate of
soda, a considerable amount of the nitrogen is left in the soil--and yet this nitrogen is of
comparatively little benefit to the succeeding crops of wheat or barley, while a fresh dressing
of ammonia-salts or nitrate of soda is of great benefit to the crop.

In other words, when wheat is sown after wheat, or barley after barley, we do not get half
the benefit from the manure which it is theoretically capable of producing.

Now, the question is, whether by a judicious rotation of crops, we can avoid this great loss
of manure?

There was a time when it was thought that the growth of turnips enriched the soil. I have heard
it said, again and again, that the reason English farmers grow larger crops of wheat and barley
than we do, is because they grow so many acres of turnips.

“So I have often heard,” said the Deacon, “and I supposed the broad turnip leaves absorbed
nitrogen from the atmosphere.”

There is no evidence that leaves have any such power; while there are many facts which point
in an opposite direction. The following experiments of Lawes and Gilbert seem to show that
the mere growth of turnips does not enrich land for grain crops.

Turnips were grown on the same land, year after year, for ten years. The land was then plowed
and sown to barley for three years. The following table gives the results:

  Three Years of Barley After Ten Years of Turnips.

  ------------------------------------+----------------------------
                                      |Produce of Barley per Acre.
  Particulars of Manures, etc.        +------+------+------+-------
                                      | 1853.| 1854.| 1855.|Average
                                      |      |      |      |3 years
  ------------------------------------+------+------+------+-------
                                      | bush.| bush.| bush.|  bush.
  Hoos-Field--                        |      |      |      |
    Barley, without manure, after 3   | 26   | 35⅛  | 34⅛  | 31⅜
      corn-crops                      |      |      |      |
  Barn-Field--                        |      |      |      |
    Barley, after 10 yrs. Turnips     |      |      |      |
      manured as under--              |      |      |      |
  1.--Mineral manures (last 8 years)  | 20½  | 19½  | 20   | 20
  2.--Mineral manures (8 yrs.);       |      |      |      |
      Ammonia-salts (6 yrs.).         | 23⅛  | 21¼  | 21¾  | 22
  3.--Mineral manures (8 yrs.);       |      |      |      |
      Rape-cake (6 yrs.)              | 28¾  | 24⅝  | 23⅛  | 25¾
  4.--Mineral manures (8 yrs.);       |      |      |      |
      Ammonia-salts and Rape-cake     |      |      |      |
          (6 yrs.)                    | 29⅛  | 23¾  | 23¾  | 25⅝
  5.--Mineral manures (8 yrs.);       |      |      |      |
      Ammonia-salts, for Barley, 1854 |(20½) | 52⅜  | 26⅝  | 39½
  6.--Mineral manures (8 yrs.);       |      |      |      |
          Ammonia-salts, for Barley,  |      |      |      |
          ’54 and ’55                 |(20½) | 54⅞  | 49⅜  | 47⅝
  ------------------------------------+------+------+------+-------

The yield of barley after turnips is less than it is after grain crops, and it is evident that
this is due to a lack of available nitrogen in the soil. In other words, the turnips leave
less available nitrogen in the soil than grain crops.

After alluding to the facts given in the foregoing table, Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert say:

“There is evidence of another kind that may be cited as showing that it was of available nitrogen
that the turnips had rendered the soil so deficient for the after-growth of barley. It may
be assumed that, on the average, between 25 and 30 lbs. of nitrogen would be annually removed
from the Rothamsted soil by wheat or barley grown year after year without nitrogenous manure.
But it is estimated that from the mineral-manured turnip-plots there were, over the 10 years,
more than 50 lbs. of nitrogen per acre per annum removed. As, however, on some of the plots,
small quantities of ammonia-salts or rape-cake were applied in the first two years of the ten
of turnips, it is, perhaps, more to the purpose to take the average over the last 8 years of
turnips only; and this would show about 45 lbs. of nitrogen removed per acre per annum. An
immaterial proportion of this might be due to the small amounts of nitrogenous manures applied
in the first two years. Still, it may be assumed that about 1½ time as much nitrogen was removed
from the land for 8, if not for 10 years, in succession, as would have been taken in an equal
number of crops of wheat or barley grown without nitrogenous manure. No wonder, then, that
considerably less barley has been grown in 3 years after a series of mineral-manured turnip-crops,
than was obtained in another field after a less number of corn-crops.

“The results obtained in Barn-field afford a striking illustration of the dependence of the
turnip-plant on a supply of available nitrogen within the soil, and of its comparatively great
power of exhausting it. They are also perfectly consistent with those in Hoos-field, in showing
that mineral manures will not yield fair crops of barley, unless there be, within the soil,
a liberal supply of available nitrogen. The results obtained under such very different conditions
in the two fields are, in fact, strikingly mutually confirmatory.”

CHAPTER XXX.

MANURES FOR OATS.

“What is the use of talking about manure for oats,” said the Deacon, “if land is not rich enough
to produce oats without manure, it certainly will not pay to manure them. We can use our manure
on some crop that will pay better.”

“That is precisely what we want to know,” said I. “Very likely you are right, but have you
any evidence?”

“Evidence of what?”

“Have you any facts that show, for instance, that it will pay better to use manure for wheat
or barley than for oats?”

“Can’t say that I have, but I think manure will pay better on wheat than on oats.”

Mr. Lawes is making a series of experiments on oats. Let us take a hasty glance at the results
of the first two seasons:

  Experiments on Oats at Rothamsted.

  ----------------------------+-----------+-----------+------------
                              | Grain, in |  Straw,   |Weight per
                              | bushels.  |   cwts.   |bushel, lbs.
       Manures per Acre.      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------
                              | 1869| 1870| 1869| 1870| 1869| 1870
  ----------------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------
  1.--No manure               | 36⅝ | 16⅜ | 19¼ | 9⅛  | 36¾ | 35
  2.--Mixed Alkalies and      |     |     |     |     |     |
      Superphosphate of Lime  | 45  | 19⅛ | 24½ | 9⅝  | 38½ | 35⅛
  3.--400 lbs. Ammonia-salts  | 56⅛ | 37½ | 36⅞ | 17¼ | 37½ | 34¼
  4.--Mixed Alkalies and      |     |     |     |     |     |
      Superphosphate, and 400 |     |     |     |     |     |
      lbs. Ammonia-salts      | 75¼ | 50⅝ | 54  | 28⅝ | 39¼ | 36
  5.--550 lbs. Nitrate of Soda| 62¼ | 36½ | 42¾ | 23  | 38½ | 35¼
  6.--Mixed Alkalies,         |     |     |     |     |     |
      Superphosphate, and 550 |     |     |     |     |     |
      lbs. Nitrate of Soda    | 69⅜ | 50  | 49⅞ | 28¾ | 38½ | 35¾
  ----------------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------

It seems clear that, for oats, as for barley and wheat, what we most need in manure, is available
nitrogen.

The first year, the no-manure plot produced 36⅝ bushels of oats per acre, weighing 36¾ lbs.
per bushel, and plot 3, with ammonia-salts alone, 56⅛ bushels, and with nitrate of soda alone,
on plot 5, 62¼ bushels per acre, both weighing 38½ lbs. per bushel. In other words, 82 lbs.
of available nitrogen in the salts of ammonia gave an increase of about 20 bushels per acre,
and the same quantity of nitrogen in nitrate of soda an increase of 26 bushels per acre.

The next year, the season seems to have been a very unfavorable one for oats. The no-manure
plot produced less than 17 bushels per acre; and the “ashes” and superphosphate on plot 2,
give an increase of less than 3 bushels per acre. But it will be seen that on plot 3 the ammonia-salts
do as much good in this unfavorable season as in the favorable one. They give an increase of
over 20 bushels per acre.

“A few such facts as this,” said the Deacon, “would almost persuade me that you are right in
contending that it is in the unfavorable seasons, when prices are sure to be high in this country,
that a good farmer stands the best chance to make money.”

“Where mixed alkalies and superphosphate,” said the Doctor, “are added to the ammonia, the
increase from the ammonia is far greater than where ammonia is used alone. In other words,
by comparing plot 2 and plot 4, you will see that the ammonia gives an increase of 30¼ bushels
per acre in 1869, and 31½ bushels in 1870.”

The truth of the matter probably is this: 100 lbs. of available ammonia per acre is an excessive
supply, when used alone. And in fact Mr. Lawes himself only recommends about half this quantity.

Whether it will pay us to use artificial manures on oats depends on the price we are likely
to get for the oats. When the price of oats per lb. and oat-straw is as high as barley and
barley-straw per lb., then it will pay a little better to use manure on oats than on barley.
As a rule in this country, however, good barley is worth more per lb. than good oats; and it
will usually pay better to use artificial manures on barley than on oats.

Some years ago Mr. Bath, of Virginia, made some experiments on oats with
the following results:
                                   Bushels of oats
                                     per acre.
  No. 1--200 lbs. Superphosphate        22
  No. 2--200 lbs. Peruvian guano        48¾
  No. 3--100 lbs. Peruvian guano        32

The oats were sown March 13, and the crop harvested July 4.

In 1860, I made some experiments with gypsum, superphosphate, and sulphate of ammonia as a
top-dressing on oats.

The land was a clover-sod, plowed about the middle of May, and the oats sown May 20. On the
26th of May, just as the oats were coming up, the manures were sown broadcast. The oats were
sown too late to obtain the best results. On another field, where the oats were sown two weeks
earlier, the crop was decidedly better. The oats were cut August 28.

The following is the result:

Experiments on Oats at Moreton Farm, Rochester, N.Y.

  ------+----------------------------------+--------+-------+--------
        |                                  |Bushels |Weight/| Straw
  Plots.|        Manures per Acre.         |of Oats/|Bushel |per acre
        |                                  |acre.   |in lbs.| in lbs.
  ------+----------------------------------+--------+-------+--------
  No. 1 |No manure                         |   36   |  22   |  1,958
      2 |600 lbs. Gypsum (Sulphate of Lime)|   47   |  26   |  2,475
      3 |300 lbs. Superphosphate of Lime   |   50   |  21   |  2,475
      4 |300 lbs. Sulphate of Ammonia      |   50   |  22   |  2,730
      5 |300 lbs. Superphosphate of Lime,  |        |       |
        |  and 300 lbs. Sulphate of Ammonia|   51   |  22½  |  2,575
  ------+----------------------------------+--------+-------+--------

These experiments were made when my land was not as clean as it is now. I presume the weeds
got more benefit from the ammonia than the oats. To top-dress foul land with expensive artificial
manures is money thrown away. If the land had been plowed in the autumn, and the seed and manures
could have been put in early in the spring, I presume we should have had more favorable results.

“Are you not ashamed to acknowledge,” said the Deacon, “that you have ever raised oats weighing
only 22 lbs. per bushel.”

No. I have raised even worse crops than this--and so has the Deacon. But I made up my mind
that such farming did not pay, and I have been trying hard since then to clean my land and
get it into better condition. And until this is done, it is useless to talk much of artificial
manures.

The most striking result is the effect of the gypsum. It not only gave an increased yield of
11 bushels per acre, but the oats were of decidedly better quality, and there was nearly half
a ton more straw per acre than on the plot alongside, where no manure was used.

The superphosphate was a good article, similar to that used in Mr. Lawes’ experiments.

CHAPTER XXXI.

MANURES FOR POTATOES.

Some time ago, a farmer in Pennsylvania wrote me that he wanted “to raise a first-rate crop
of potatoes.” I answered him as follows through the American Agriculturist:

“There are many ways of doing this. But as you only enter on the farm this spring, you will
work to disadvantage. To obtain the best results, it is necessary to prepare for the crop two
or three years beforehand. All that you can do this year is to select the best land on the
farm, put on 400 lbs. of Peruvian guano, cultivate thoroughly, and suffer not a weed to grow.
A two or three-year-old clover-sod, on warm, rich, sandy loam, gives a good chance for potatoes.
Do not plow until you are ready to plant. Sow the guano broadcast after plowing, and harrow
it in, or apply a tablespoonful in each hill, and mix it with the soil. Mark out the rows,
both ways, three feet apart, and drop a fair-sized potato in each hill. Start the cultivator
as soon as the rows can be distinguished, and repeat every week or ten days until there is
danger of disturbing the roots. We usually hill up a little, making a broad, flat hill. A tablespoonful
of plaster, dusted on the young plants soon after they come up, will usually do good. We recommend
guano, because in our experience it does not increase the rot. But it is only fair to add,
that we have not found even barn-yard manure, if thoroughly rotted and well mixed with the
soil the fall previous, half so injurious as some people would have us suppose. If any one
will put 25 loads per acre on our potato land, we will agree to plant and run the risk of the
rot. But we would use some guano as well. The truth is, that it is useless to expect a large
crop of potatoes, say 350 bushels per acre, without plenty of manure.”

This was written before the potato-beetle made its appearance. But I think I should say the
same thing now--only put it a little stronger. The truth is, it will not pay to “fight the
bugs” on a poor crop of potatoes. We must select the best land we have and make it as rich
as possible.

“But why do you recommend Peruvian guano,” asked the Doctor, “rather than superphosphate or
ashes? Potatoes contain a large amount of potash, and one would expect considerable benefit
from an application of ashes.”

“Ashes, plaster, and hen-dung,” said the Judge, “will at any rate pay well on potatoes. I have
tried this mixture again and again, and always with good effect.”

“I believe in the hen-dung,” said I, “and possibly in the plaster, but on my land, ashes do
not seem to be specially beneficial on potatoes, while I have rarely used Peruvian guano without
good effect; and sometimes it has proved wonderfully profitable, owing to the high price of
potatoes.”

Sometime ago, I had a visit from one of the most enterprising and successful farmers in Western
New York.

“What I want to learn,” he said, “is how to make manure enough to keep my land in good condition.
I sell nothing but beans, potatoes, wheat, and apples. I feed out all my corn, oats, stalks,
straw, and hay on the farm, and draw into the barn-yard the potato-vines and everything else
that will rot into manure. I make a big pile of it. But the point with me is to find out what
is the best stock to feed this straw, stalks, hay, oats, and corn to, so as to make the best
manure and return the largest profit. Last year I bought a lot of steers to feed in winter,
and lost money. This fall I bought 68 head of cows to winter, intending to sell them in the
spring.”

“What did they cost you?”

“I went into Wyoming and Cattaraugus Counties, and picked them up among the dairy farmers,
and selected a very fair lot of cows at an average of $22 per head. I expect to sell them as
new milch cows in the spring. Such cows last spring would have been worth $60 to $70 each.”

“That will pay. But it is not often the grain-grower gets such a chance to feed out his straw,
stalks, and other fodder to advantage. It cannot be adopted as a permanent system. It is bad
for the dairyman, and no real help to the grain-grower. The manure is not rich enough. Straw
and stalks alone can not be fed to advantage. And when you winter cows to sell again in the
spring, it will not pay to feed grain. If you were going to keep the cows it would pay well.
The fat and flesh you put on in the winter would be returned in the form of butter and cheese
next summer.”

“Why is not the manure good? I am careful to save everything, and expect seven or eight hundred
loads of manure in the spring.”

“You had 60 acres of wheat that yielded 25 bushels per acre, and have probably about 50 tons
of wheat straw. You had also 30 acres oats, that yielded 50 bushels per acre, say 35 tons of
straw. Your 20 acres of corn produced 40 bushels of shelled corn per acre; say the stalks weigh
30 tons. And you have 60 tons of hay, half clover and half timothy. Let us see what your manure
from this amount of grain and fodder is worth.

  Manures from
          50 tons wheat-straw, @ $2.68          $ 134.00
          35 tons oat-straw, @ $2.90              101.50
          30 tons corn-stalks, @ $3.58            107.40
          30 tons timothy-hay, @ $6.43            192.90
          30 tons clover-hay, @ $9.64             289.20
          14 tons oats (1,500 bush.), @ $7.70     107.80
          24 tons corn (800 bushels), @ $6.65     159.60
                                               ---------
  Total  213 tons                              $1,092.40

“This is the value of the manure on the land. Assuming that there are 600 loads, and that the
labor of cleaning out the stables, piling, carting, and spreading the manure is worth 30 cents
per load, or $180, we have $912.40 as the net value of the manure.

“Now, your 250-acre farm might be so managed that this amount of manure annually applied would
soon greatly increase its fertility. But you do not think you can afford to summer-fallow,
and you want to raise thirty or forty acres of potatoes every year.”

“I propose to do so,” he replied. “Situated as I am, close to a good shipping station, no crop
pays me better. My potatoes this year have averaged me over $100 per acre.”

“Very good. But it is perfectly clear to my mind that sooner or later, you must either farm
slower or feed higher. And in your case, situated close to a village where you can get plenty
of help, and with a good shipping station near by, you had better adopt the latter plan. You
must feed higher, and make richer manure. You now feed out 213 tons of stuff, and make 600
loads of manure, worth $912.40. By feeding out one third, or 71 tons more, you can more than
double the value of the manure.

  50 tons of bran or mill-feed would give manure worth    $ 729.50
  21 tons decorticated cotton-seed cake                     585.06
                                                         ---------
                                                         $1,314.56

“Buy and feed out this amount of bran and cake, and you would have 800 loads of manure, worth
on the land $2,226.96, or, estimating as before that it cost 30 cents a load to handle it,
its net value would be $1,986.96.”

I am well aware that comparatively few farmers in this section can afford to adopt this plan
of enriching their land. We want better stock. I do not know where I could buy a lot of steers
that it would pay to fatten in the winter. Those farmers who raise good grade Shorthorn or
Devon cattle are not the men to sell them half-fat at low rates. They can fatten them as well
as I can. For some time to come, the farmer who proposes to feed liberally, will have to raise
his own stock. He can rarely buy well-bred animals to fatten. A good farmer must be a good
farmer throughout. He can not be good in spots. His land must be drained, well-worked, and
free from weeds. If he crops heavily he must manure heavily, and to do this he must feed liberally--and
he can not afford to feed liberally unless he has good stock.

“I have, myself, no doubt but you are right on this point,” said the Doctor, “but all this
takes time. Suppose a farmer becomes satisfied that the manure he makes is not rich enough.
To tell him, when he is anxious to raise a good crop of potatoes next year, that he must go
to work and improve his stock of cattle, sheep, and swine, and then buy bran and oil-cake to
make richer manure, is somewhat tantalizing.”

This is true, and in such a case, instead of adding nitrogen and phosphoric acid to his manure
in the shape of bran, oil-cake, etc., he can buy nitrogen and phosphoric acid in guano or in
nitrate of soda and superphosphate. This gives him richer manure; which is precisely what he
wants for his potatoes. His poor manure is not so much deficient in potash as in nitrogen and
phosphoric acid, and consequently it is nitrogen and phosphoric acid that he will probably
need to make his soil capable of producing a large crop of potatoes.

I have seen Peruvian guano extensively used on potatoes, and almost always with good effect.
My first experience with it in this country, was in 1852. Four acres of potatoes were planted
on a two-year-old clover-sod, plowed in the spring. On two acres, Peruvian guano was sown broadcast
at the rate of 300 lbs. per acre and harrowed in. The potatoes were planted May 10. On the
other two acres no manure of any kind was used, though treated exactly alike in every other
respect. The result was as follows:

  No manure                    119 bushels per acre.
  300 lbs. Peruvian guano      205   ”         ”

The guano cost, here, about 3 cents a lb., and consequently nine dollars’ worth of guano gave
84 bushels of potatoes. The potatoes were all sound and good, but where the guano was used,
they were larger, with scarcely a small one amongst them.

In 1857, I made the following experiments on potatoes, in the same field on which the preceding
experiment was made in 1852.

In this case, as before, the land was a two-year-old clover-sod. It was plowed about the first
of May, and harrowed until it was in a good mellow condition. The potatoes were planted in
hills 3½ feet apart each way. The following table shows the manures used and the yield of potatoes
per acre.

  Experiments on Potatoes at Moreton Farm.

  P.  Number of Plot.
  Y/A Yield of Potatoes per acre, in bushels.
  I/A Increase of Potatoes per acre, in bushels, caused by manure.

  ---+-----------------------------------------------------+-----+----
     |    Description of Manures Used, and Quantities      |     |
  P. |              Applied per Acre.                      | Y/A |I/A
  ---+-----------------------------------------------------+-----+----
  1. | No manure                                           |  95 |
  2. | 150 lbs. sulphate of ammonia                        | 140 | 45
  3. | 300 lbs. superphosphate of lime                     | 132 | 37
  4. | 150 lbs. sulphate of ammonia, and 300 lbs.          |     |
     |    superphosphate of lime                           | 179 | 84
  5. | 400 lbs. of unleached wood-ashes                    | 100 |  5
  6. | 100 lbs. plaster, (gypsum, or sulphate of lime,)    | 101 |  6
  7. | 400 lbs. unleached wood-ashes and 100 lbs. plaster  | 110 | 15
  8. | 400 lbs. unleached wood-ashes, 150 lbs.             |     |
     |    sulphate of ammonia and 100 lbs. plaster         | 109 | 14
  9. | 300 lbs. superphosphate of lime, 150 lbs. sulphate  |     |
     |   of  ammonia and 400 lbs. unleached wood-ashes     | 138 | 43
  ---+-----------------------------------------------------+-----+----

The superphosphate of lime was made expressly for experimental purposes, from calcined bones,
ground fine, and mixed with sulphuric acid in the proper proportions to convert all the phosphate
of lime of the bones into the soluble superphosphate. It was a purely mineral article, free
from ammonia and other organic matter. It cost about two and a half cents per pound.

The manures were deposited in the hill, covered with an inch or two of soil, and the seed then
planted on the top. Where superphosphate of lime or sulphate of ammonia was used in conjunction
with ashes, the ashes were first deposited in the hill and covered with a little soil, and
then the superphosphate or sulphate of ammonia placed on the top and covered with soil before
the seed was planted. Notwithstanding this precaution, the rain washed the sulphate of ammonia
into the ashes, and decomposition, with loss of ammonia, was the result. This will account
for the less yield on plot 8 than on plot 2. It would have been better to have sown the ashes
broadcast, but some previous experiments with Peruvian guano on potatoes indicated that it
was best to apply guano in the hill, carefully covering it with soil to prevent it injuring
the seed, than to sow it broadcast. It was for this reason, and for the greater convenience
in sowing, that the manures were applied in the hill.

The ash of potatoes consists of about 50 per cent of potash, and this fact has induced many
writers to recommend ashes as a manure for this crop. It will be seen, however, that in this
instance, at least, they have very little effect, 400 lbs. giving an increase of only five
bushels per acre. One hundred pounds of plaster per acre gave an increase of six bushels. Plaster
and ashes combined, an increase per acre of 15 bushels.

One fact is clearly brought out by these experiments: that this soil, which has been under
cultivation without manure for many years, is not, relatively to other constituents of crops,
deficient in potash. Had such been the case, the sulphate of ammonia and superphosphate of
lime--manures which contain no potash--would not have give a an increase of 84 bushels of potatoes
per acre. There was sufficient potash in the soil, in an available condition, for 179 bushels
of potatoes per acre; and the reason why the soil without manure produced only 95 bushels per
acre, was owing to a deficiency of ammonia and phosphates.

Since these experiments were made, Dr. Vœlcker and others have made similar ones in England.
The results on the whole all point in one direction. They show that the manures most valuable
for potatoes are those rich in nitrogen and phosphoric acid, and that occasionally potash is
also a useful addition.

“There is one thing I should like to know,” said the Doctor. “Admitting that nitrogen and phosphoric
acid and potash are the most important elements of plant-food, how many bushels of potatoes
should we be likely to get from a judicious application of these manures?”

“There is no way,” said I, “of getting at this with any degree of certainty. The numerous experiments
that have been made in England seem to show that a given quantity of manure will produce a
larger increase on poor land than on land in better condition.”

In England potatoes are rarely if ever planted without manure, and the land selected for this
crop, even without manure, would usually be in better condition than the average potato land
of this section, and consequently a given amount of manure, applied to potatoes here, would
be likely to do more good, up to a certain point, than the same amount would in England.

Let us look at some of the experiments that have been made in England:--

In the Transactions of the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland for 1873 is a prize
essay on “Experiments upon Potatoes, with Potash Salts, on Light Land,” by Charles D. Hunter,
F.C.S., made on the farm of William Lawson, in Cumberland. Mr. Hunter “was charged with the
manuring of the farm and the purchasing of chemical manures to the annual value of £2,000,”
or say $10,000.

“Potatoes,” says Mr. Hunter, “were largely grown on the farm, and in the absence of a sufficiency
of farm-yard manure, potash naturally suggested itself as a necessary constituent of a chemical
potato-manure. The soil was light and gravelly, with an open subsoil, and the rainfall from
29 to 38 inches a year.”

The first series of experiments was made in 1867. The following are some
of the results:--
                                     Bushels per acre.
  No manure                            221
  4 cwt. mineral superphosphate        225
  4 cwt. mineral superphosphate and  } 240
  4 cwt. of muriate of potash        }
  15½ tons farm-yard manure            293

“That does not say much for potash and superphosphate,” said the Deacon. “The superphosphate
only produced four bushels more than the no manure, and the potash and superphosphate only
fifteen bushels more than the superphosphate alone.”

It may be worth while mentioning that one of the experimental plots this year was on a head-land,
“where the cattle frequently stand for shelter.” This plot was dressed with only eight and
a half tons of manure, and the crop was over 427 bushels per acre, while a plot alongside,
without manure, produced only 163 bushels per acre.

“That shows the importance,” said the Deacon, “of planting potatoes on rich land, rather than
to plant on poor land and try to make it rich by applying manure directly to the crop.”

The following are some of the results in 1868:

                                  Bushels per acre.
  1.  No manure                     232
     {4 cwt. superphosphate       }
  2. {2  ”   muriate of potash    } 340
     {2  ”   sulphate of ammonia  }
  3. 20 tons farm-yard manure       342
  4. {4 cwt. superphosphate       } 274
     {4  ”   muriate of potash    }

“Here again,” said the Doctor, “superphosphate and potash alone give an increase of only forty-two
bushels per acre, while on plot 2, where two hundred weight of muriate of potash is substituted
by two hundred weight of sulphate of ammonia, the increase is 108 bushels per acre. It certainly
looks as though a manure for potatoes, so far as yield is concerned, should be rich in available
nitrogen.”

The following are some of the results in 1869:

                                   Bushels per acre.
  1.  No manure                      176

  2. {4 cwt. superphosphate        }
     {¾  ”   sulphate of magnesia  } 306
     {2  ”   muriate of potash     }
     {2  ”   sulphate of ammonia   }

  3.  4 cwt. superphosphate          189

  4. {4 cwt. superphosphate        } 201
     {2  ”   sulphate of ammonia   }

  5. {4 cwt. superphosphate        }
     {2  ”   muriate of potash     } 340
     {2  ”   sulphate of ammonia.  }

  6. {4 cwt. superphosphate        } 249
     {2  ”   muriate of potash     }

“This is a very interesting experiment,” said the Doctor. “Superphosphate alone gives an increase
of thirteen bushels. Superphosphate and potash an increase of seventy-three bushels. The potash,
therefore, gives an increase of sixty bushels. Superphosphate and ammonia give twelve bushels
more than superphosphate alone, and the reason it does not produce a better crop is owing to
a deficiency of potash. When this is supplied the ammonia gives an increase (plots 5 and 6)
of ninety-one bushels per acre.”

In 1870 the above experiments were repeated on the same land, with the same general results.

In 1871 some experiments were made on a sharp, gravelly soil, which had been over-cropped,
and was in poor condition. The following are the results:--

                                    Bushels per acre.
  1. {9  cwt. superphosphate       } 186
     {3   ”   sulphate of ammonia  }

  2. {9  cwt. superphosphate       }
     {3½  ”   muriate of potash    } 204
     {3   ”   sulphate of ammonia  }

  3.  No manure                       70

  4. {9  cwt. superphosphate       }
     {3½  ”   muriate of potash    } 205
     {3   ”   sulphate of ammonia  }

  5.  20 tons farm-yard manure       197

“On this poor soil,” said the Doctor, “the ammonia and superphosphate gave an increase of 116
bushels per acre; and 3½ hundred weight of muriate of potash an increase, on one plot, of eighteen
bushels, and on the other nineteen bushels per acre.”

In the same year, 1871, another set of experiments was made on a better and more loamy soil,
which had been in grass for several years. In 1869 it was sown for hay, and in 1870 was broken
up and sown to oats, and the next spring planted with potatoes. The following are some of the
results:

                                   Bushels per acre.

     {6¼ cwt. superphosphate       }
  1. {2½  ”   muriate of potash    } 321
     {2½  ”   sulphate of ammonia  }

  2. {6¼ cwt. superphosphate       } 296
     {2½  ”   sulphate of ammonia  }

  3.  No manure                      252

  4. {6¼ cwt. superphosphate       } 311
     {2½  ”   muriate of potash    }

  5.  2½ cwt. sulphate of ammonia    238

  6.  15 tons farm-yard manure       365

“It is curious,” said the Doctor, “that the plot with sulphate of ammonia alone should produce
less than the no-manure plot.”

“The sulphate of ammonia,” said I, “may have injured the seed, or it may have produced too
luxuriant a growth of vine.”

Another series of experiments was made on another portion of the same field in 1871. The “no-manure”
plot produced 337 bushels per acre. Manures of various kinds were used, but the largest yield,
351 bushels per acre, was from superphosphate and sulphate of ammonia; fourteen tons barn-yard
manure produce 340 bushels per acre; and Mr. Hunter remarks: “It is evident that, when the
produce of the unmanured soil reaches nine tons [336 bushels] per acre, there is but little
scope for manure of any kind.”

“I do not see,” said the Doctor, “that you have answered my question, but I suppose that, with
potatoes at fifty cents a bushel, and wheat at $1.50 per bushel, artificial manures can be
more profitably used on potatoes than on wheat, and the same is probably true of oats, barley,
corn, etc.”

I have long been of the opinion that artificial manures can be applied to potatoes with more
profit than to any other ordinary farm-crop, for the simple reason that, in this country, potatoes,
on the average, command relatively high prices.

For instance, if average land, without manure, will produce fifteen bushels of wheat per acre
and 100 bushels of potatoes, and a given quantity of manure costing, say $25, will double the
crop, we have, in the one case, an increase of:--

  15 bushels of wheat at $1.50          $22.50
  15 cwt. of straw                        3.50
                                        ------
                                        $26.00
    Cost of manure                       25.00
                                        ------
  Profit from using manure               $1.00

And in the other:--

  100 bushels of potatoes at 50 cents   $50.00
  Cost of manure                         25.00
                                        ------
    Profit from using manure            $25.00

The only question is, whether the same quantity of the right kind of manure is as likely to
double the potato crop as to double the wheat crop, when both are raised on average land.

“It is not an easy matter,” said the Deacon, “to double the yield of potatoes.”

“Neither is it,” said I, “to double the yield of wheat, but both can be done, provided you
start low enough. If your land is clean, and well worked, and dry, and only produces ten bushels
of wheat per acre, there is no difficulty in making it produce twenty bushels; and so of potatoes.
If the land be dry and well cultivated, and, barring the bugs, produces without manure 75 bushels
per acre, there ought to be no difficulty in making it produce 150 bushels.

“But if your land produces, without manure, 150 bushels, it is not always easy to make it produce
300 bushels. Fortunately, or unfortunately, our land is, in most cases, poor enough to start
with, and we ought to be able to use manure on potatoes to great advantage.”

“But will not the manure,” asked the Deacon, “injure the quality of the potatoes?”

I think not. So far as my experiments and experience go, the judicious use of good manure,
on dry land, favors the perfect maturity of the tubers and the formation of starch. I never
manured potatoes so highly as I did last year (1877), and never had potatoes of such high quality.
They cook white, dry, and mealy. We made furrows two and a half feet apart, and spread rich,
well-rotted manure in the furrows, and planted the potatoes on top of the manure, and covered
them with a plow. In our climate, I am inclined to think, it would be better to apply the manure
to the land for potatoes the autumn previous. If sod land, spread the manure on the surface,
and let it lie exposed all winter. If stubble land, plow it in the fall, and then spread the
manure in the fall or winter, and plow it under in the spring.

CHAPTER XXXII.

WHAT CROPS SHOULD MANURE BE APPLIED TO.

“It will not do any harm on any crop,” said the Deacon, “but on my farm it seems to be most
convenient to draw it out in the winter or spring, and plow it under for corn. I do not know
any farmer except you who uses it on potatoes.”

My own rule is to apply manure to those crops which require the most labor per acre. But I
am well aware that this rule will have many exceptions. For instance, it will often pay well
to use manure on barley, and yet barley requires far less labor than corn or potatoes.

People who let out, and those who work farms “on shares” seldom understand this matter clearly.
I knew a farmer, who last year let out a field of good land, that had been in corn the previous
year, to a man to sow to barley, and afterwards to wheat on “the halves.” Another part of the
farm was taken by a man to plant corn and potatoes on similar terms, and another man put in
several acres of cabbage, beets, carrots, and onions on halves. It never seemed to occur to
either of them that the conditions were unequal. The expense of digging and harvesting the
potato-crop alone was greater than the whole cost of the barley-crop; while, after the barley
was off, the land was plowed once, harrowed, and sowed to winter wheat; and nothing more has
to be done to it until the next harvest. With the garden crops, the difference is even still
more striking. The labor expended on one acre of onions or carrots would put in and harvest
a ten-acre field of barley. If the tenant gets pay for his labor, the landlord would get say
$5 an acre for his barley land, and $50 for his carrot and onion land. I am pretty sure the
tenants did not see the matter in this light, nor the farmer either.

Crops which require a large amount of labor can only be grown on very rich land. Our successful
market-gardeners, seed-growers, and nurserymen understand this matter. They must get great
crops or they cannot pay their labor bill. And the principle is applicable to ordinary farm
crops. Some of them require much more labor than others, and should never be grown unless the
land is capable of producing a maximum yield per acre, or a close approximation to it. As a
rule, the least-paying crops are those which require the least labor per acre. Farmers are
afraid to expend much money for labor. They are wise in this, unless all the conditions are
favorable. But when they have land in a high state of cultivation--drained, clean, mellow,
and rich--it would usually pay them well to grow crops which require the most labor.

And it should never be forgotten that, as compared with nearly all other countries, our labor
is expensive. No matter how cheap our land may be, we can not afford to waste our labor. It
is too costly. If men would work for nothing, and board themselves, there are localities where
we could perhaps afford to keep sheep that shear two pounds of wool a year; or cows that make
75 lbs. of butter. We might make a profit out of a wheat crop of 8 bushels per acre, or a corn-crop
of 15 bushels, or a potato-crop of 50 bushels. But it cannot be done with labor costing from
$1.00 to $1.25 per day. And I do not believe labor will cost much less in our time. The only
thing we can do is to employ it to the best advantage. Machinery will help us to some extent,
but I can see no real escape from our difficulties in this matter, except to raise larger crops
per acre.

In ordinary farming, “larger crops per acre” means fewer acres planted or sown with grain.
It means more summer fallow, more grass, clover, peas, mustard, coleseed, roots, and other
crops that are consumed on the farm. It means more thorough cultivation. It means clean and
rich land. It means husbanding the ammonia and nitric acid, which is brought to the soil, as
well as that which is developed from the soil, or which the soil attracts from the atmosphere,
and using it to grow a crop every second, third, or fourth year, instead of every year. If
a piece of land will grow 25 bushels of corn every year, we should aim to so manage it, that
it will grow 50 every other year, or 75 every third year, or, if the climate is capable of
doing it, of raising 100 bushels per acre every fourth year.

Theoretically this can be done, and in one of Mr. Lawes’ experiments he did it practically
in the case of a summer-fallow for wheat, the one crop in two years giving a little more than
two crops sown in succession. But on sandy land we should probably lose a portion of the liberated
plant-food, unless we grew a crop of some kind every year. And the matter organized in the
renovating crop could not be rendered completely available for the next crop. In the end, however,
we ought to be able to get it with little or no loss. How best to accomplish this result, is
one of the most interesting and important fields for scientific investigation and practical
experiment. We know enough, however, to be sure that there is a great advantage in waiting
until there is a sufficient accumulation of available plant-food in the soil to produce a large
yield, before sowing a crop that requires much labor.

If we do not want to wait, we must apply manure. If we have no barn-yard or stable-manure,
we must buy artificials.

HOW AND WHEN MANURE SHOULD BE APPLIED.

This is not a merely theoretical or chemical question. We must take into consideration the
cost of application. Also, whether we apply it at a busy or a leisure season. I have seen it
recommended, for instance, to spread manure on meadow-land immediately after the hay-crop was
removed. Now, I think this may be theoretically very good advice. But, on my farm, it would
throw the work right into the midst of wheat and barley harvests; and I should make the theory
bend a little to my convenience. The meadows would have to wait until we had got in the crops--or
until harvest operations were stopped by rain.

I mention this merely to show the complex character of this question. On my own farm, the most
leisure season of the year, except the winter, is immediately after wheat harvest. And, as
already stated, it is at this time that John Johnston draws out his manure and spreads it on
grass-land intended to be plowed up the following spring for corn.

If the manure was free from weed-seeds, many of our best farmers, if they had some well-rotted
manure like this of John Johnston’s, would draw it out and spread it on their fields prepared
for winter-wheat.

In this case, I should draw out the manure in heaps and then spread it carefully. Then harrow
it, and if the harrow pulls the manure into heaps, spread them and harrow again. It is of the
greatest importance to spread manure evenly and mix it thoroughly with the soil. If this work
is well done, and the manure is well-rotted, it will not interfere with the drill. And the
manure will be near the surface, where the young roots of the wheat can get hold of it.

“You must recollect,” said the Doctor, “that the roots can only take up the manure when in
solution.”

“It must also be remembered,” said I, “that a light rain of, say, only half an inch, pours
down on to the manures spread on an acre of land about 14,000 gallons of water, or about 56
tons. If you have put on 8 tons of manure, half an inch of rain would furnish a gallon of water
to each pound of manure. It is not difficult to understand, therefore, how manure applied on
the surface, or near the surface, can be taken up by the young roots.”

“That puts the matter in a new light to me,” said the Deacon. “If the manure was plowed under,
five or six inches deep, it would require an abundant rain to reach the manure. And it is not
one year in five that we get rain enough to thoroughly soak the soil for several weeks after
sowing the wheat in August or September. And when it does come, the season is so far advanced
that the wheat plants make little growth.”

My own opinion is, that on clayey land, manure will act much quicker if applied on, or near
the surface, than if plowed under. Clay mixed with manure arrests or checks decomposition.
Sand has no such effect. If anything, it favors a more active decomposition, and hence, manure
acts much more rapidly on sandy land than on clay land. And I think, as a rule, where a farmer
advocates the application of manure on the surface, it will be found that he occupies clay
land or a heavy loam; while those who oppose the practice, and think manure should be plowed
under, occupy sandy land or sandy loam.

“J. J. Thomas,” said I, “once gave me a new idea.”

“Is that anything strange,” remarked the Deacon. “Are ideas so scarce among you agricultural
writers, that you can recollect who first suggested them?”

“Be that as it may,” said I, “this idea has had a decided influence on my farm practice. I
will not say that the idea originated with Mr. Thomas, but at any rate, it was new to me. I
had always been in the habit, when spading in manure in the garden, of putting the manure in
the trench and covering it up; and in plowing it in, I thought it was desirable to put it at
the bottom of the furrow where the next furrow would cover it up.”

“Well,” said the Deacon, “and what objection is there to the practice?”

“I am not objecting to the practice. I do not say that it is not a good plan. It may often
be the only practicable method of applying manure. But it is well to know that there is sometimes
a better plan. The idea that Mr. Thomas gave me, was, that it was very desirable to break up
the manure fine, spread it evenly, and thoroughly mix it with the soil.

“After the manure is spread on the soil,” said Mr. Thomas, “and before plowing it in, great
benefit is derived by thoroughly harrowing the top-soil, thus breaking finely both the manure
and the soil, and mixing them well together. Another way for the perfect diffusion of the manure
among the particles of earth, is, to spread the manure in autumn, so that, all the rains of
this season may dissolve the soluble portions and carry them down among the particles, where
they are absorbed and retained for the growing crop.

“In experiments,” continues Mr. Thomas, “when the manure for corn was thus applied in autumn,
has afforded a yield of about 70 bushels per acre, when the same amount applied in spring,
gave only 50 bushels. A thin coating of manure applied to winter-wheat at the time of sowing,
and was harrowed in, has increased the crop from 7 to 10 bushels per acre--and in addition
to this, by the stronger growth it has caused, as well as by the protection it has afforded
to the surface, it has not unfrequently saved the crop from partial or total winter-killing.

“In cases where it is necessary to apply coarse manures at once, much may be done in lessening
the evils of coarseness by artificially grinding it into the soil. The instrument called the
drag-roller--which is like the common roller set stiff so as not to revolve--has been used
to great advantage for this purpose, by passing it over the surface in connection with the
harrow. We have known this treatment to effect a thorough intermixture, and to more than double
the crop obtained by common management with common manure.”

TOP-DRESSING WITH MANURE.

The term “top-dressing” usually refers to sowing or spreading manures on the growing crop.
For instance, we top-dress pastures or meadows by spreading manure on the surface. If we sow
nitrate of soda, or guano, on our winter-wheat in the spring, that would be top-dressing. We
often sow gypsum on clover, and on barley, and peas, while the plants are growing in the spring,
and this is top-dressing.

“If the gypsum was sown broadcast on the land before sowing the seed,” said the Deacon, “would
not that be top-dressing also?”

Strictly speaking, I suppose that would not be top-dressing.

Top-dressing in the sense in which I understand the term, is seldom adopted, except on meadows
and pastures as a regular system. It is an after-thought. We have sown wheat on a poor, sandy
knoll, and we draw out some manure and spread on it in the winter or early spring; or we top-dress
it with hen-manure, or guano, or nitrate of soda and superphosphate. I do not say that this
is better than to apply the manure at the time of sowing the wheat, but if we neglect to do
so, then top-dressing is a commendable practice.

Dr. Vœlcker reports the result of some experiments in top-dressing winter-wheat on the farm
of the Royal Agricultural College at Cirencester, England. The manures were finely sifted and
mixed with about ten times their weight of fine soil, and sown broadcast on the growing wheat,
March 22. A fine rain occurred the following day, and washed the manure into the soil. The
following is the yield per acre:--

  No manure                        27    bushels and 1984 lbs. of straw.
  280 lbs. Peruvian guano          40      ”      ”  2576  ”        ”
  195  ”   nitrate of soda         38      ”      ”  2695  ”        ”
  180  ”   nitrate of soda, and
    168 lbs. of common salt        40½     ”      ”  2736  ”        ”
  448 lbs. Proctor’s wheat-manure  39½     ”      ”  2668  ”        ”
  672  ”       ”        ”   ”      44¼     ”      ”  3032  ”        ”
  4 tons chalk-marl                27      ”      ”  1872  ”        ”

The manures in each case cost $7.80 per acre, except the large dose of Proctor’s wheat-manure,
which cost $11.70 per acre. The wheat was worth $1.26 per bushel. Leaving the value of the
straw out of the question, the profit from the use of the top dressing was:

  With guano                              $8.70 per acre.
   ”   nitrate of soda                     6.00
   ”   nitrate of soda and common salt     9.33
   ”   448 lbs. wheat-manure               7.94
   ”   672  ”     ”     ”                 10.16

The marl did no good.

The nitrate of soda and common salt contained no phosphoric acid, and yet produced an excellent
effect. The guano and the wheat-manure contained phosphoric acid as well as nitrogen, and the
following crop of clover would be likely to get some benefit from it.

John Johnston wrote in 1868, “I have used manure only as a top-dressing for the last 26 years,
and I do think one load, used in that way, is worth far more than two loads plowed under on
our stiff land.”

CHAPTER XXXIII.

MANURES ON PERMANENT MEADOWS AND PASTURES.

In this country, where labor is comparatively high, and hay often commands a good price, a
good, permanent meadow frequently affords as much real profit as any other portion of the farm.
Now that we have good mowing-machines, tedders, rakes, and loading and unloading apparatus,
the labor of hay-making is greatly lessened. The only difficulty is to keep up and increase
the annual growth of good grass.

Numerous experiments on top-dressing meadows are reported from year to year. The results, of
course, differ considerably, being influenced by the soil and season. The profit of the practice
depends very much on the price of hay. In the Eastern States, hay generally commands a higher
relative price than grain, and it not unfrequently happens that we can use manure on grass
to decided advantage.

The celebrated experiments of Messrs. Lawes & Gilbert with “Manures on Permanent Meadow-land”
were commenced in 1856, and have been continued on the same plots every year since that time.

“You need not be afraid, Deacon,” said I, as the old gentleman commenced to button up his coat,
“I am not going into the details of these wonderful experiments; but I am sure you will be
interested in the results of the first six or seven years.”

The following table explains itself:

Experiments with Manures on Permanent Meadow land at Rothamsted, England.

  Hay/Acre 20th (1875): Hay per Acre the 20th Season, 1875.
  Total/Acre: Total Hay (per) Acre.

----+-------------------------------+----------------------------------+
    |                               | Annual Produce of Hay            |
    |                               |          per Acre in Lbs.        |
    |                               +----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
    |   Description and Amount of   |1856|1857|1858|1859|1860|1861|1862|
    |       Manures per Acre.       |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
----+-------------------------------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
  1 |No manure                      |2433|2724|3116|2558|2822|3074|3238|
  2{|400 lbs. ammonia-salts = 82    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
   {|  lbs. of nitrogen             |4028|3774|3982|3644|2940|3808|3854|
    |                               |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
  3 |Superphosphate of lime         |    |    |    |2828|3176|3400|3252|
  4{|400 lbs. ammonia-salts and     |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
   {|  superphosphate of lime       |    |    |    |4996|4788|4968|4756|
  5 |Mixed mineral manures          |3429|3666|4082|3416|3928|4488|4424|
  6 |400 lbs. ammonia-salts and     |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    |  mixed mineral manures        |6363|6422|7172|6198|5624|6316|6402|
  7 |800 lbs. ammonia-salts and     |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    |  mixed mineral manures        |7054|6940|7508|7150|5744|6710|7108|
  8 |800 lbs. ammonia-salts and     |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    |  mixed mineral manures,       |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    |  including 200 lbs. each      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    |  silicates, soda, and lime    |    |    |    |    |    |    |7120|
    |                               |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
  9 |275 lbs. nitrate of soda       |    |    |2952|3588|3948|4092|4446|
 10 |550 lbs. nitrate of soda = 82  |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    |  lbs. of nitrogen             |    |    |3564|4116|4410|4452|4086|
 11 |Mixed mineral manures and 275  |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    |  lbs. nitrate of soda         |    |    |4236|4956|4812|5514|5178|
 12 |Mixed mineral manures and 550  |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    |  lbs. nitrate of soda         |    |    |5636|6072|5586|5892|5718|
 13 |14 tons farmyard-manure        |4030|5328|4164|4584|5208|5052|5060|
 14 |14 tons farmyard-manure and    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    |  200 lbs. ammonia-salts       |5009|6008|5320|5356|5704|5320|5556|
----+-------------------------------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+

  --------------------+----------------+----
    Average Hay per   |   Hay/Acre     |
          Acre.       |  20th (1875)   |
  ---------+----------+----+----+------+
  1st 7 Yrs| 20 Years.|1st |2nd |Total |
   1856-62.|          |Crop|Crop| /Acre|
  ---------+----------+----+----+------+----
     2824  |   2534   |2436|1491|  3927|  1
           |          |    |    |      |
     3719  |   2940   |2702|2016|  4718|  2
  (4 yrs.)}|(17 yrs.)}|    |    |      |
     3164 }|   2492  }|2352|1722|  4074|  3
  (4 yrs.)}|(17 yrs.)}|    |    |      |
     4877 }|   3612  }|4102|1610|  5712|  4
     3919  |   3948   |4564|2688|  7252|  5
           |          |    |    |      |
     6357  |   5712   |5824|2744|  8508|  6
           |          |    |    |      |
     6876  |   6454   |6222|5684|10,906|  7
           |          |    |    |      |
           |          |    |    |      |
           |          |    |    |      |
           |   7000   |6720|4592|11,312|  8
   1858-62}|(18 yrs.)}|    |    |      |
     3805 }|   3794  }|3360|1456|  4816|  9
           |(18 yrs.)}|    |    |      |
     4126  |   3962  }|3276|1470|  4746| 10
           |(18 yrs.)}|    |    |      |
     4939  |   5208  }|5040|1862|  6902| 11
           |(18 yrs.)}|    |    |      |
     5783  |   6384  }|7028|1974|  9002| 12
     4775  |   4130   |2996|1316|  4312| 13
           |          |    |    |      |
     5468  |   4816   |3766|1960|  5726| 14
  ---------+----------+----+----+------+----

These are all the figures I will trouble you with. The ammonia-salts consisted of equal parts
sulphate and muriate of ammonia, containing about 25 per cent. of ammonia. The manures were
sown as early as possible in the spring, and, if the weather was suitable, sometimes in February.
The farmyard-manure was spread on the land, in the first year, in the spring, afterwards in
November or December. The hay was cut from the middle to the last of June; and the aftermath
was pastured off by sheep in October.

“It is curious,” said the Deacon, “that 400 lbs. of ammonia-salts should give as great an increase
in the yield of hay the first year as 14 tons of farmyard-manure, but the second year the farmyard-manure
comes out decidedly ahead.”

“The farmyard-manure,” said I, “was applied every year, at the rate of 14 gross tons per acre,
for eight years--1856 to 1863. After 1863, this plot was left without manure of any kind. After
the eighth year the farmyard-manure was discontinued, and during the next twelve years the
yield of hay averaged 3,683 lbs., or 1,149 lbs. more than the continuously unmanured plot.

In 1859, superphosphate of lime was used alone on plot 3, and has been continued ever since.
It seems clear that this land, which had been in pasture or meadow for a hundred years or more,
was not deficient in phosphates.

“It does not seem,” said the Deacon, “to have been deficient in anything. The twentieth crop,
on the continuously unmanured plot was nearly 1¼ ton per acre, the first cutting, and nearly
¾-ton the second cutting. And apparently the land was just as rich in 1875, as it was in 1856,
and yet over 25 tons of hay had been cut and removed from the land, without any manure being
returned. And yet we are told that hay is a very exhausting crop.”

“Superphosphate alone,” said the Doctor, “did very little to increase the yield of hay, but
superphosphate and ammonia produced the first year, 1859, over a ton more hay per acre than
the superphosphate alone, and when potash is added to the manure, the yield is still further
increased.”

“Answer me one question,” said the Deacon, “and let us leave the subject. In the light of these
and other experiments, what do you consider the cheapest and best manure to apply to a permanent
meadow or pasture?”

“Rich, well-decomposed farmyard or stable manure,” said I, “and if it is not rich, apply 200
lbs. of nitrate of soda per acre, in addition. This will make it rich. Poor manure, made from
straw, corn-stalks, hay, etc., is poor in nitrogen, and comparatively rich in potash. The nitrate
of soda will supply the deficiency of nitrogen. On the sea-shore fish-scrap is a cheaper source
of nitrogen, and may be used instead of the nitrate of soda.”

CHAPTER XXXIV.

MANURES FOR SPECIAL CROPS.

MANURES FOR HOPS.

“For hops,” said the Doctor, “there is nothing better than rich, well-decomposed farmyard-manure--such
manure as you are now making from your pigs that are bedded with stable-manure.”

“That is so,” said I, “and the better you feed your horses and pigs, the better will the manure
be for hops. In England, Mr. Paine, of Surrey, made a series of experiments with different
manures for hops, and, as the result of four years trial, reported that rape-cake, singly,
or in combination, invariably proved the best manure for hops. In this country, cotton-seed,
or cotton-seed-cake, would be a good substitute for the rape-cake. Whatever manure is used
should be used liberally. Hops require a large amount of labor per acre, and it is, therefore,
specially desirable to obtain a large yield per acre. This can be accomplished only by the
most lavish expenditure of manure. And all experience seems to show that it must be manure
rich in nitrogen. In the hop districts of England, 25 tons of rich farmyard-manure are applied
per acre; and in addition to this, soot and rags, both rich in nitrogen, have long been popular
auxiliaries. The value of soot is due to the fact that it contains from 12 to 15 per cent of
sulphate of ammonia, and the fact that it has been so long used with success as a manure for
hops, seems to prove that sulphate of ammonia, which can now be readily obtained, could be
used to advantage by our hop-growers--say at the rate, in addition to farm-yard manure, of
500 lbs. per acre, sown broadcast early in the spring.”

MANURES FOR TOBACCO.

When tobacco is grown for wrappers, it is desirable to get a large, strong leaf. The richest
land is selected for the crop, and large quantities of the richest and most stimulating manures
are used.

Like cabbages, this crop requires a large amount of plant-food per acre; and, like them, it
can only be grown by constant and high manuring. More manure must be used than the plants can
take up out of the soil, and hence it is, that land which has been used for growing tobacco
for some years, will be in high condition for other crops without further manuring.

Farm-yard or stable-manure, must be the mainstay of the tobacco-planter. With this, he can
use artificial fertilizers to advantage--such as fish-scrap, woollen-rags, Peruvian guano,
dried blood, slaughter-house offal, sulphate of ammonia, nitrate of soda, etc.

For choice, high-flavored smoking-tobacco, the grower aims to get quality rather than quantity.
This seems to depend more on the land and the climate than on the manures used. Superphosphate
of lime would be likely to prove advantageous in favoring the early growth and maturity of
the crop. And in raising tobacco-plants in the seed-bed, I should expect good results from
the use of superphosphate, raked into the soil at the rate of three or four lbs. per square rod.

MANURES FOR INDIAN CORN.

We know less about the manurial requirements of Indian corn, than of almost any other crop
we cultivate. We know that wheat, barley, oats, and grasses, require for their maximum growth
a liberal supply of available nitrogen in the soil. And such facts and experiments as we have,
seem to indicate that the same is also true of Indian corn. It is, at any rate, reasonable
to suppose that, as Indian corn belongs to the same botanical order as wheat, barley, oats,
rye, timothy, and other grasses, the general manurial requirements would be the same. Such,
I presume, is the case; and yet there seem to be some facts that would incline us to place
Indian corn with the leguminous plants, such as clover, peas, and beans, rather than with the
cereals, wheat, barley, oats, etc.

“Why so,” asked the Deacon, “Indian corn does not have much in common with beans, peas, and
clover?”

As we have shown, clover can get more nitrogen out of the soil, than wheat, barley, and oats.
And the same is true of beans and peas, though probably not to so great an extent.

Now, it would seem that Indian corn can get more nitrogen out of a soil, than wheat, barley,
or oats--and to this extent, at least, we may consider Indian corn as a renovating crop. In
other words, the Indian corn can get more nitrogen out of the soil, than wheat, barley, and
oats--and when we feed out the corn and stalks on the farm, we have more food and more manure
than if we raised and fed out a crop of oats, barley, or wheat. If this idea is correct, then
Indian corn, when consumed on the farm, should not be classed with what the English farmers
term “white crops,” but rather with the “green crops.” In other words, Indian corn is what
old writers used to call a “fallow crop”--or what we call a renovating crop.

If this is so, then the growth and consumption of Indian corn on the farm, as is the case with
clover, should leave the farm richer for wheat, rather than poorer. I do not mean richer absolutely,
but richer so far as the available supply of plant-food is concerned.

“It may be that you are right,” said the Doctor, “when corn is grown for fodder, but not when
grown for the grain. It is the formation of the seed which exhausts the soil.”

If I could be sure that it was true of corn-fodder, I should have little doubt that it is true
also of corn as ordinarily grown for grain and stalks. For, I think, it is clear that the grain
is formed at the expense of the stalks, and not directly from the soil. The corn-fodder will
take from the soil as much nitrogen and phosphoric acid as the crop of corn, and the more it
will take, the more it approximates in character to clover and other renovating crops. If corn-fodder
is a renovating crop, so is the ordinary corn-crop, also, provided it is consumed on the farm.

“But what makes you think,” said the Deacon, “that corn can get more nitrogen from the soil,
than wheat?”

“That is the real point, Deacon,” said I, “and I will ask you this question. Suppose you had
a field of wheat seeded down to clover, and the clover failed. After harvest, you plow up half
of the field and sow it to wheat again, the other half of the field you plow in the spring,
and plant with Indian corn. Now, suppose you get 15 bushels of wheat to the acre, how much
corn do you think you would be likely to get?”

“Well, that depends,” said the Deacon, “but I should expect at least 30 bushels of shelled
corn per acre.”

“Exactly, and I think most farmers would tell you the same; you get twice as much corn and
stalks to the acre as you would of wheat and straw. In other words, while the wheat cannot
find more nitrogen than is necessary to produce 15 bushels of wheat and straw, the corn can
find, and does find, take up, and organize, at least twice as much nitrogen as the wheat.”

If these are facts, then the remarks we have made in regard to the value of clover as a fertilizing
crop, are applicable in some degree to Indian corn. To grow clover and sell it, will in the
end impoverish the soil; to grow clover and feed it out, will enrich the land. And the same
will be true of Indian corn. It will gather up nitrogen that the wheat-crop can not appropriate;
and when the corn and stalks are fed out, some 90 per cent of the nitrogen will be left in
the manure.

“You do not think, then,” said the Doctor, “that nitrogen is such an important element in manure
for corn, as it is in a manure for wheat.”

I have not said that. If we want a large crop of corn, we shall usually need a liberal supply
of available nitrogen. But this is because a larger crop of corn means a much larger produce
per acre, than a large crop of wheat. Forty bushels of wheat per acre is an unusually large
crop with us; but 80 bushels of shelled corn can be grown in a favorable season, and on rich,
well-cultivated land. As the Deacon has said, 30 bushels of corn per acre can be grown as easily
as 15 bushels of wheat; and it is quite probable, in many cases, that a manure containing no
nitrogen, might give us a crop of 35 or 40 bushels per acre. In other words, up to a certain
point, manures containing mineral, or carbonaceous matter, might frequently, in ordinary agriculture,
increase the yield of Indian corn; while on similar land, such manures would have little effect
on wheat.

“That is so,” said the Deacon, “we all know that plaster frequently increases the growth of
corn, while it seldom does much good on wheat.”

But, after you have got as large a crop as the land will produce, aided by plaster, ashes,
and superphosphate, say 40 bushels of shelled corn per acre, then if you want to raise 70 bushels
per acre, you must furnish the soil with manures containing sufficient available nitrogen.

Some years ago, I made some careful experiments with artificial manures on Indian corn.

“Oh, yes,” said the Deacon, “they were made on the south lot, in front of my house, and I recollect
that the N.Y. State Ag. Society awarded you a prize of $75 for them.”

“And I recollect,” said I, “how you and some other neighbors laughed at me for spending so
much time in measuring the land and applying the manures, and measuring the crop. But I wish
I could have afforded to continue them. A single experiment, however carefully made, can not
be depended on. However, I will give the results for what they are worth, with some remarks
made at the time:

“The soil on which the experiments were made, is a light, sandy loam. It has been under cultivation
for upwards of twenty years, and so far as I can ascertain has never been manured. It has been
somewhat impoverished by the growth of cereal crops, and it was thought that for this reason,
and on account of its light texture and active character, which would cause the manures to
act immediately, it was well adapted for the purpose of showing the effect of different manurial
substances on the corn-crop.

“The land was clover-sod, two years old, pastured the previous summer. It was plowed early
in the spring, and harrowed until in excellent condition. The corn was planted May 23, in hills
3½ feet apart each way.

“The manures were applied in the hill immediately before the seed was planted.

“With superphosphate of lime, and with plaster (gypsum, or sulphate of lime), the seed was
placed directly on top of the manure, as it is well known that these manures do not injure
the germinating principle of even the smallest seeds.

“The ashes were dropped in the hill, and then covered with soil, and the seed planted on the
top, so that it should not come in contact with the ashes.

“Guano and sulphate of ammonia were treated in the same way.

“On the plots where ashes and guano, or ashes and sulphate of ammonia were both used, the ashes
were first put in the hill, and covered with soil, and the guano or sulphate of ammonia placed
on the top, and also covered with soil before the seed was planted. The ashes and superphosphate
of lime was also treated in the same way. It is well known that unleached ashes, mixed either
with guano, sulphate of ammonia, or superphosphate, mutually decompose each other, setting
free the ammonia of the guano and sulphate of ammonia, and converting the soluble phosphate
of the superphosphate of lime into the insoluble form in which it existed before treatment
with sulphuric acid. All the plots were planted on the same day, and the manures weighed and
applied under my own immediate supervision. Everything was done that was deemed necessary to
secure accuracy.

“The following table gives the results of the experiments:

  Table Showing the Results of Experiments on Indian Corn.

SdC  Bushels of ears of sound corn per acre. SfC  Bushels of ears of soft corn per acre. TC
Total No. of bushels of ears of corn per acre. ISdC Increase per acre of ears sound corn. ISfC
Increase per acre of ears of soft corn. TIC  Total increase per acre of ears of corn.

-----+----------------------------------+-----+----+-----+----+----+----
     |   Descriptions of manures and    |     |    |     |    |    |
Plots|   quantities applied per acre    | SdC | SfC|  TC |ISdC|ISfC|TIC
-----+----------------------------------+-----+----+-----+----+----+----
  1. |No manure                         |  60 |  7 |  67 | .. | .. | ..
  2. |100 lbs. plaster (gypsum or       |     |    |     |    |    |
     |  sulphate of lime)               |  70 |  8 |  78 | 10 |  1 | 11
  3. |150 lbs. sulphate of ammonia      |  90 | 15 | 105 | 30 |  8 | 38
  5. |300 lbs. superphosphate of lime   |  70 |  8 |  78 | 10 |  1 | 11
  6. | 23
  7. |400 lbs. unleached wood-ashes,    |     |    |     |    |    |
     |  (uncertain)                     |  60 | 12 |  72 | .. |  5 |  5
  8. |300 lbs. superphosphate of lime,  |     |    |     |    |    |
     |  150 lbs. sulph. ammonia, and    |     |    |     |    |    |
     |  400 lbs. unleached wood-ashes   | 100 |  8 | 108 | 40 |  1 | 41
 10. |400 lbs. unleached wood-ashes     |  60 |  8 |  68 | .. |  1 |  1
 11. |100 lbs. plaster. 400 lbs.        |     |    |     |    |    |
     |  unleached wood-ashes, 300 lbs.  |     |    |     |    |    |
     |  superphosphate of lime, and     |     |    |     |    |    |
     |  200 lbs. Peruvian guano         |  95 | 10 | 105 | 35 |  3 | 38
 12. |75 lbs. sulphate of ammonia       |  78 | 10 |  88 | 18 |  3 | 21
 13. |200 lbs. Peruvian guano           |  88 | 13 | 101 | 28 |  6 | 34
 14. Peruvian guano         | 111 | 14 | 125 | 51 |  7 | 58
-----+----------------------------------+-----+----+-----+----+----+----

“The superphosphate of lime was made on purpose for these experiments, and was a pure mineral
manure of superior quality, made from calcined bones; it cost about 2½ cents per pound. The
sulphate of ammonia was a good, commercial article, obtained from London, at a cost of about
seven cents per pound. The ashes were made from beech and hard maple (Acer saccharinum) wood,
and were sifted through a fine sieve before being weighed. The guano was the best Peruvian,
costing about three cents per pound. It was crushed and sifted before using. In sowing the
ashes on plot 7, an error occurred in their application, and for the purpose of checking the
result, it was deemed advisable to repeat the experiment on plot 10.

“On plot 5, with 300 lbs. of superphosphate of lime per acre, the plants came up first, and
exhibited a healthy, dark-green appearance, which they retained for some time. This result
was not anticipated, though it is well known that superphosphate of lime has the effect of
stimulating the germination of turnip-seed, and the early growth of the plants to an astonishing
degree; yet, as it has no such effect on wheat, it appeared probable that it would not produce
this effect on Indian corn, which, in chemical composition, is very similar to wheat. The result
shows how uncertain are all speculations in regard to the manurial requirements of plants.
This immediate effect of superphosphate of lime on corn was so marked, that the men (who were,
at the time of planting, somewhat inclined to be skeptical, in regard to the value of such
small doses of manure), declared that ‘superphosphate beats all creation for corn.’ The difference
in favor of superphosphate, at the time of hoeing, was very perceptible, even at some distance.

“Although every precaution was taken that was deemed necessary, to prevent the manures from
mixing in the hill, or from injuring the seed, yet, it was found, that those plots dressed
with ashes and guano, or with ashes and sulphate of ammonia, were injured to some extent. Shortly
after the corn was planted, heavy rain set in, and washed the sulphate of ammonia and guano,
down into the ashes, and mutual decomposition took place, with more or less loss of ammonia.
In addition to this loss of ammonia, these manures came up to the surface of the ground in
the form of an excrescence, so hard that the plants could with difficulty penetrate through it.

“It will be seen, by examining the table, that although the superphosphate of lime had a good
effect during the early stages of the growth of the plants, yet the increase of ears of corn
in the end did not come up to these early indications. On plot 5, with 300 lbs. of superphosphate
of lime per acre, the yield is precisely the same as on plot 2, with 100 lbs. of plaster (sulphate
of lime), per acre. Now, superphosphate of lime is composed necessarily of soluble phosphate
of lime and plaster, or sulphate of lime, formed from a combination of the sulphuric acid,
employed in the manufacture of superphosphate, with the lime of the bones. In the 300 lbs.
of superphosphate of lime, sown on plot 5, there would be about 100 lbs. of plaster; and as
the effect of this dressing is no greater than was obtained from the 100 lbs. of plaster, sown
on plot 2, it follows, that the good effect of the superphosphate of lime was due to the plaster
that it contained.

“Again, on plot 4, with 150 lbs. of sulphate of ammonia per acre, we have 90 bushels of ears
of sound corn, and 15 bushels of ears of soft corn, (‘nubbins,’) per acre; or a total increase
over the plot without manure, of 38 bushels. Now, the sulphate of ammonia contains no phosphate
of lime, and the fact that such a manure gives a considerable increase of crop, confirms the
conclusion we have arrived at, from a comparison of the results on plots 2 and 5; that the
increase from the superphosphate of lime, is not due to the phosphate of lime which it contains,
unless we are to conclude that the sulphate of ammonia rendered the phosphate of lime in the
soil more readily soluble, and thus furnished an increased quantity in an available form for
assimilation by the plants--a conclusion, which the results with superphosphate alone, on plot
5, and with superphosphate and sulphate of ammonia, combined, on plot 6, do not sustain.

“On plot 12, half the quantity of sulphate of ammonia, was used as on plot 4, and the increase
is a little more than half what it is where double the quantity was used. Again, on plot 13,
200 lbs. of Peruvian guano per acre, gives nearly as great an increase of sound corn, as the
150 lbs. of sulphate of ammonia. Now, 200 lbs. of Peruvian guano contains nearly as much ammonia
as 150 lbs. sulphate of ammonia, and the increase in both cases is evidently due to the ammonia
of these manures. The 200 lbs. of Peruvian guano, contained about 50 lbs. of phosphate of lime;
but as the sulphate of ammonia, which contains no phosphate of lime, gives as great an increase
as the guano, it follows, that the phosphate of lime in the guano, had little, if any effect;
a result precisely similar to that obtained with superphosphate of lime.

“We may conclude, therefore, that on this soil, which has never been manured, and which has
been cultivated for many years with the Ceralia--or, in other words, with crops which remove
a large quantity of phosphate of lime from the soil--the phosphate of lime, relatively to the
ammonia, is not deficient. If such was not the case, an application of soluble phosphate of
lime would have given an increase of crop, which we have shown was not the case in any one
of these experiments.

“Plot 10, with 400 lbs. of unleached wood-ashes per acre, produces the same quantity of sound
corn, with an extra bushel of ‘nubbins’ per acre, as plot 1, without any manure at all; ashes,
therefore, applied alone, may be said to have had no effect whatever. On plot 3, 400 lbs. of
ashes, and 100 lbs. of plaster, give the same total number of bushels per acre, as plot 2,
with 100 lbs. of plaster alone. Plot 8, with 400 lbs. ashes, and 150 lbs. of sulphate of ammonia,
yields three bushels of sound corn, and five bushels of ‘nubbins’ per acre, less than plot
4, with 150 lbs. sulphate of ammonia alone. This result may be ascribed to the fact previously
alluded to--the ashes dissipated some of the ammonia. Peruvian guano alone. It is evident,
from these results, that neither ashes nor phosphates had much effect on Indian corn, on this
impoverished soil. Plot 14 received the largest dressing of ammonia (500 lbs. Peruvian guano),
and produced much the largest crop; though the increase is not so great in proportion to the
guano, as where smaller quantities were used.

“The manure which produced the most profitable result, was the 100 lbs. of plaster, on plot
2. The 200 lbs. of Peruvian guano, on plot 13, and which cost about $6, gave an increase of
14 bushels of shelled corn, and 6 bushels of ‘nubbins.’ This will pay at the present price
of corn in Rochester, although the profit is not very great. The superphosphate of lime, although
a very superior article, and estimated at cost price, in no case paid for itself. The same
is true of the ashes.

“But the object of the experiment was not so much to ascertain what manures will pay, but to
ascertain, if possible, what constituents of manures are required, in greatest quantity, for
the maximum growth of corn.  *  *  Hitherto, no experiments have been made in this country,
on Indian corn, that afforded any certain information on this point. Indeed, we believe no
satisfactory experiments have been made on Indian corn, in any country, that throw any definite
light on this interesting and important question. A few years ago, Mr. Lawes made similar experiments
to those given above, on his farm, at Rothamsted, England; but owing to the coolness of the
English climate, the crop did not arrive at maturity.

“Numerous experiments have been made in this country, with guano and superphosphate of lime;
but the superphosphates used were commercial articles, containing more or less ammonia, and
if they are of any benefit to those crops to which they are applied, it is a matter of uncertainty
whether the beneficial effect of the application is due to the soluble phosphate of lime, or
to the ammonia. On the other hand, guano contains both ammonia and phosphate; and we are equally
at a loss to determine, whether the effect is attributable to the ammonia or phosphate, or
both. In order, therefore, to determine satisfactorily, which of the several ingredients of
plants is required in greatest proportion, for the maximum growth of any particular crop, we
must apply these ingredients separately, or in such definite compounds, as will enable us to
determine to what particular element or compounds the beneficial effect is to be ascribed.
It was for this reason, that sulphate of ammonia, and a purely mineral superphosphate of lime,
were used in the above experiments. No one would think of using sulphate of ammonia at its
price, [sulphate of ammonia is now cheaper, while Peruvian guano is more costly and less rich
in ammonia], as an ordinary manure, for the reason, that the same quantity of ammonia can be
obtained in other substances, such as barnyard-manure, Peruvian guano, etc., at a much cheaper
rate. But these manures contain all the elements of plants, and we can not know whether the
effect produced by them is due to the ammonia, phosphates, or any other ingredients. For the
purpose of experiment, therefore, we must use a manure that furnishes ammonia without any admixture
of phosphates, potash, soda, lime, magnesia, etc., even though it cost much more than we could
obtain the same amount of ammonia in other manures. I make these remarks in order to correct
a very common opinion, that if experiments do not pay, they are useless. The ultimate object,
indeed, is to ascertain the most profitable method of manuring; but the means of obtaining
this information, can not in all cases be profitable.

“Similar experiments to those made on Indian corn, were made on soil of a similar character,
on about an acre of Chinese sugar-cane. I do not propose to give the results in detail, at
this time, and allude to them merely to mention one very important fact, the superphosphate
of lime had a very marked effect. This manure was applied in the hill on one plot (the twentieth
of an acre,) at the rate of 400 lbs. per acre, and the plants on this plot came up first, and
outgrew all the others from the start, and ultimately attained the height of about ten feet;
while on the plot receiving no manure, the plants were not five feet high. This is a result
entirely different from what I should have expected. It has been supposed, from the fact that
superphosphate of lime had no effect on wheat, that it would probably have little effect on
corn, or on the sugar-cane, or other ceralia; and that, as ammonia is so beneficial for wheat,
it would probably be beneficial for corn and sugar-cane. The above experiments indicate that
such is the case, in regard to Indian corn, so far as the production of grain is concerned,
though, as we have stated, it is not true in reference to the early growth of the plants. The
superphosphate of lime on Indian corn, stimulated the growth of the plants, in a very decided
manner at first, so much so, that we were led to suppose, for some time, that it would give
the largest crop; but at harvest, it was found that it produced no more corn than plaster.
These results seem to indicate, that superphosphate of lime stimulates the growth of stalks
and leaves, and has little effect in increasing the production of seed. In raising Indian corn,
for fodder or for soiling purposes, superphosphate of lime may be beneficial, as well as in
growing the sorghum for sugar-making purposes, or for fodder--though, perhaps, not for seed.”

“In addition to the experiments given above, I also made the same season, on an adjoining field,
another set of experiments on Indian corn, the results of which are given below.

“The land on which these experiments were made, is of a somewhat firmer texture than that on
which the other set of experiments was made. It is situated about a mile from the barn-yard,
and on this account, has seldom, if ever been manured. It has been cultivated for many years
with ordinary farm crops. It was plowed early in the spring, and it was harrowed until quite
mellow. The corn was planted May 30, 1857. Each experiment occupied one-tenth of an acre, consisting
of 4 rows 3½ feet apart, and the same distance between the hills in the rows, with one row
without manure between each experimental plot.

“The manure was applied in the hill, in the same manner as in the first set of experiments.

“The barnyard-manure was well-rotted, and consisted principally of
cow-dung with a little horse-dung. Twenty two-horse wagon loads of this
was applied per acre, and each load would probably weigh about one ton.
It was put in the hill and covered with soil, and the seed then planted
on the top. | .. | ..
  2. | 20 loads barn-yard manure        | 82½ | 10 |  92½| 5½ | .. |  5½
  3. | 150 lbs. sulphate of ammonia     | 85  | 30 | 115 | 10 | 18 | 28
  4. | 300 lbs. superphosphate of lime  | 88  | 10 |  98 | 11 | .. | 11
  5. | 400 lbs. Peruvian guano          | 90  | 30 | 120 | 15 | 18 | 33
  6. | 400 lbs. of “Cancerine,” or fish | 85  | 20 | 105 | 10 | 8  | 18
     |   manure                         |     |    |     |    |    |
-----+----------------------------------+-----+----+-----+----+----+----

“As before stated, the land was of a stronger nature than that on which the first set of experiments
was made, and it was evidently in better condition, as the plot having no manure produced 20
bushels of ears of corn per acre more than the plot without manure in the other field.

“On plot 4, 300 lbs. of superphosphate of lime gives a total increase of 11 bushels of ears
of corn per acre over the unmanured plot, agreeing exactly with the increase obtained from
the same quantity of the same manure on plot 5, in the first set of experiments.

“Plot 3, dressed with 150 lbs. of sulphate of ammonia per acre, gives a total increase of 28
bushels of ears of corn per acre, over the unmanured plot; and an increase of 22½ bushels of
ears per acre over plot 2, which received 20 loads of good, well-rotted barnyard-dung per acre.

“Plot 5, with 400 lbs. of Peruvian guano per acre gives the best crop of this series viz: an
increase of 33 bushels of corn per acre over the unmanured plot, and 27½ over the plot manured
with 20 loads of barnyard-dung. The 400 lbs. of ‘Cancerine’--an artificial manure made in New
Jersey from fish--gives a total increase of 18 bushels of ears per acre over the unmanured
plot, and 12½ bushels more than that manured with barn-yard dung, though 5 bushels of ears
of sound corn and 10 bushels of ‘nubbins’ per acre less than the same quantity of Peruvian guano.”

MANURES FOR TURNIPS.

To raise a large crop of turnips, especially of ruta-bagas, there is nothing better than a
liberal application of rich, well-rotted farm-yard-manure, and 250 to 300 lbs. of good superphosphate
of lime per acre, drilled in with the seed.

I have seen capital crops of common turnips grown with no other manure except 300 lbs. of superphosphate
per acre, drilled with the seed. Superphosphate has a wonderful effect on the development of
the roots of the turnip. And this is the secret of its great value for this crop. It increases
the growth of the young plant, developing the formation of the roots, and when the turnip once
gets full possession of the soil, it appropriates all the plant-food it can find. A turnip-crop
grown with superphosphate, can get from the soil much more nitrogen than a crop of wheat. The
turnip-crop, when supplied with superphosphate, is a good “scavenger.” It will gather up and
organize into good food the refuse plant-food left in the soil. It is to the surface soil,
what clover is to the subsoil. To the market gardener, or to a farmer who manures heavily common
turnips drilled in with superphosphate will prove a valuable crop. On such land no other manure
will be needed. I cannot too earnestly recommend the use of superphosphate as a manure for turnips.

For Swede turnips or ruta-bagas, it will usually be necessary, in order to secure a maximum
crop, to use a manure which, in addition to superphosphate, contains available nitrogen. A
good dressing of rich, well-rotted manure, spread on the land, and plowed under, and then 300
lbs. of superphosphate drilled in with the seed, would be likely to give a good crop.

In the absence of manure, there is probably nothing better for the ruta-bagas than 300 lbs.
of so-called “rectified” Peruvian guano, that is, guano treated with sulphuric acid, to render
the phosphates soluble. Such a guano is guaranteed to contain 10 per cent of ammonia, and 10
per cent of soluble phosphoric acid, and would be a good dressing for Swede turnips.

The best way to use guano for turnips is to sow it broadcast on the land, and harrow it in,
and then either drill in the turnip-seed on the flat, or on ridges. The latter is decidedly
the better plan, provided you have the necessary implements to do the work expeditiously. A
double mould-board plow will ridge up four acres a day, and the guano being previously sown
on the surface, will be turned up with the mellow surface-soil into the ridge, where the seed
is to be sown. The young plants get hold of it and grow so rapidly as to be soon out of danger
from the turnip-beetle.

MANURES FOR MANGEL-WURZEL OR SUGAR-BEETS.

When sugar-beets are grown for feeding to stock, there is probably little or no difference
in the manurial requirements of sugar-beets and mangel-wurzel. Our object is to get as large
a growth as possible consistent with quality.

“Large roots,” said the Deacon, “have been proved to contain less nutriment than small roots.”

True, but it does not follow from this that rich land, or heavy manuring is the chief cause
of this difference. It is much more likely to be due to the variety selected. The seed-growers
have been breeding solely for size and shape. They have succeeded to such an extent that 84
gross tons of roots have been grown on an acre. This is equal to over 94 of our tons per acre.
“That is an enormous crop,” said the Deacon; “and it would require some labor to put 10 acres
of them in a cellar.”

“If they were as nutritious as ordinary mangels,” said I, “that would be no argument against
them. But such is not the case. In a letter just received from Mr. Lawes, (May, 1878,) he characterizes
them as ‘bladders of water and salts.’”

Had the seed-growers bred for quality, the roots would have been of less size, but they would
contain more nutriment.

What we want is a variety that has been bred with reference to quality; and when this is secured,
we need not fear to make the land rich and otherwise aim to secure great growth and large-sized
roots.

It certainly is not good economy to select a variety which has been bred for years to produce
large-sized roots, and then sow this seed on poor land for the purpose of obtaining small-sized
roots. Better take a variety bred for quality, and then make the land rich enough to produce
a good crop.

We are not likely to err in making the land too rich for mangel-wurzel or for sugar-beets grown
for stock. When sugar-beets are grown for sugar, we must aim to use manures favorable for the
production of sugar, or rather to avoid using those which are unfavorable. But where sugar-beets
are grown for food, our aim is to get a large amount of nutriment to the acre. And it is by
no means clear to my mind that there is much to be gained by selecting the sugar-beet instead
of a good variety of mangel-wurzel. It is not a difficult matter, by selecting the largest
roots for seed, and by liberal manuring, and continuously selecting the largest roots, to convert
the sugar-beet into a mangel-wurzel.

When sugar-beets are grown for food, we may safely manure them as we would mangel-wurzel, and
treat the two crops precisely alike.

I usually raise from ten to fifteen acres of mangel-wurzel every year. I grow them in rotation
with other crops, and not as the Hon. Harris Lewis and some others do, continuously on the
same land. We manure liberally, but not extravagantly, and get a fair yield, and the land is
left in admirable condition for future crops.

I mean by this, not that the land is specially rich, but that it is very clean and mellow.

“In 1877,” said the Deacon, “you had potatoes on the land where you grew mangels the previous
year, and had the best crop in the neighborhood.”

This is true, but still I do not think it a good rotation. A barley crop seeded with clover
would be better, especially if the mangels were heavily manured. The clover would get the manure
which had been washed into the subsoil, or left in such a condition that potatoes or grain
could not take it up.

There is one thing in relation to my mangels of 1876 which has escaped the Deacon. The whole
piece was manured and well prepared, and dibbled in with mangels, the rows being 2½ feet apart,
and the seed dropped 15 inches apart in the rows. Owing to poor seed, the mangels failed on
about three acres, and we plowed up the land and drilled in corn for fodder, in rows 2½ feet
apart, and at the rate of over three bushels of seed per acre. We had a great crop of corn-fodder.

The next year, as I said before, the whole piece was planted with potatoes, and if it was true
that mangels are an “enriching crop,” while corn is an “exhausting” crop, we ought to have
had much better potatoes after the mangels than after corn. This was certainly not the case;
if there was any difference, it was in favor of the corn. But I do not place any confidence
in an experiment of this kind, where the crops were not weighed and the results carefully ascertained.

Mr. Lawes has made some most thorough experiments with different manures on sugar-beets, and
in 1876 he commenced a series of experiments with mangel-wurzel.

The land is a rather stiff clay loam, similar to that on which the wheat and barley experiments
were made. It is better suited to the growth of beets than of turnips.

“Why so,” asked the Deacon, “I thought that black, bottom land was best for mangels.”

“Not so, Deacon,” said I, “we can, it is true, grow large crops of mangels on well-drained
and well-manured swampy or bottom land, but the best soil for mangels, especially in regard
to quality, is a good, stiff, well-worked, and well-manured loam.”

“And yet,” said the Deacon, “you had a better crop last year on the lower and blacker portions
of the field than on the heavy, clayey land.”

In one sense, this is true. We had dry weather in the spring, and the mangel seed on the dry,
clayey land did not come up as well as on the cooler and moister bottom-land. We had more plants
to the acre, but the roots on the clayey land, when they once got fair hold of the soil and
the manure, grew larger and better than on the lighter and moister land. The great point is
to get this heavy land into a fine, mellow condition.

But to Mr. Lawes’ experiments. They are remarkably interesting and instructive. But it is not
necessary to go into all the details. Suffice it to say that the experiments seem to prove,
very conclusively, that beets require a liberal supply of available nitrogen. Thus, without
manure, the yield of beets was about 7½ tons of bulbs per acre.

With 550 lbs. nitrate of soda per acre, the yield was a little over 22 tons per acre. With
14 tons of farmyard-manure, 18 tons per acre. With 14 tons of farmyard manure and 550 lbs.
nitrate of soda, over 27½ tons per acre.

Superphosphate of lime, sulphates of potash, soda, and magnesia, and common salt, alone, or
with other manures, had comparatively little effect.

Practically, when we want to grow a good crop of beets or mangels, these experiments prove
that what we need is the richest kind of barnyard-manure.

If our manure is not rich, then we should use, in addition to the manure, a dressing of nitrate
of soda--say 400 or 500 lbs. per acre.

If the land is in pretty good condition, and we have no barnyard-manure, we may look for a
fair crop from a dressing of nitrate of soda alone.

“I see,” said the Deacon, “that 550 lbs. of nitrate of soda alone, gave an increase of 14½
tons per acre. And the following year, on the same land, it gave an increase of 13½ tons; and
the next year, on the same land, over 9 tons.”

“Yes,” said I, “the first three years of the experiments (1871-2-3), 550 lbs. of nitrate of
soda alone, applied every year, gave an average yield of 19¼ tons of bulbs per acre. During
the same three years, the plot dressed with 14 tons of barnyard-manure, gave an average yield
of 16¼ tons. But now mark. The next year (1874) all the plots were left without any manure,
and the plot which had been previously dressed with nitrate of soda, alone, fell off to 3 tons
per acre, while the plot which had been previously manured with barnyard-manure, produced 10¾
tons per acre.”

“Good,” said the Deacon, “there is nothing like manure.”

MANURES FOR CABBAGE, PARSNIPS, CARROTS, LETTUCE, ONIONS, ETC.

I class these plants together, because, though differing widely in many respects, they have
one feature in common. They are all artificial productions.

A distinguished amateur horticulturist once said to me, “I do not see why it is I have so much
trouble with lettuce. My land is rich, and the lettuce grow well, but do not head. They have
a tendency to run up to seed, and soon get tough and bitter.”

I advised him to raise his own seed from the best plants--and especially to reject all plants
that showed any tendency to go prematurely to seed. Furthermore, I told him I thought if he
would sow a little superphosphate of lime with the seed, it would greatly stimulate the early
growth of the lettuce.

As I have said before, superphosphate, when drilled in with the seed, has a wonderful effect
in developing the root-growth of the young plants of turnips, and I thought it would have the
same effect on lettuce, cabbage, cauliflowers, etc.

“But,” said he, “it is not roots that I want, but heads.”

“Exactly,” said I, “you do not want the plants to follow out their natural disposition and
run up to seed. You want to induce them to throw out a great abundance of tender leaves. In
other words, you want them to ‘head.’ Just as in the turnip, you do not want them to run up
to seed, but to produce an unnatural development of ‘bulb.’”

Thirty years ago, Dr. Gilbert threw out the suggestion, that while it was evident that turnips
required a larger proportion of soluble phosphates in the soil than wheat; while wheat required
a larger proportion of available nitrogen in the soil, than turnips, it was quite probable,
if we were growing turnips for seed, that then, turnips would require the same kind of manures
as wheat.

We want exceedingly rich land for cabbage, especially for an early crop. This is not merely
because a large crop of cabbage takes a large amount of plant-food out of the soil, but because
the cultivated cabbage is an artificial plant, that requires its food in a concentrated shape.
In popular language, the plants have to be “forced.”

According to the analyses of Dr. Anderson, the outside leaves of cabbage, contain, in round
numbers, 91 per cent of water; and the heart leaves, 94½ per cent. In other words, the green
leaves contain 3½ per cent more dry matter than the heart leaves.

Dr. Vœlcker, who analyzed more recently some “cattle-cabbage,” found 89½ per cent of water
in the green leaves, and 83¾ per cent in the heart and inner leaves--thus confirming previous
analyses, and showing also that the composition of cabbages varies considerably.

Dr. Vœlcker found much less water in the cabbage than Dr. Anderson.

The specimen analyzed by Dr. V., was grown on the farm of the Royal Ag. College of England,
and I infer from some incidental remarks, that the crop was grown on rather poor land. And
it is probably true that a large crop of cabbage grown on rich land, contains a higher percentage
of water than cabbage grown on poorer land. On the poor land, the cabbage would not be likely
to head so well as on the rich land, and the green leaves of cabbage contain more than half
as much again real dry substance as the heart leaves.

The dry matter of the heart leaves, however, contains more actual nutriment than the dry matter
of the green leaves.

It would seem very desirable, therefore, whether we are raising cabbage for market or for home
consumption, to make the land rich enough to grow good heads. Dr. Vœlcker says, “In ordinary
seasons, the average produce of Swedes on our poorer fields is about 15 tons per acre. On weighing
the produce of an acre of cabbage, grown under similar circumstances, I found that it amounted
to 17½ tons per acre. On good, well-manured fields, however, we have had a much larger produce.”

In a report on the “Cultivation of Cabbage, and its comparative Value for Feeding purposes,”
by J. M. M’Laren, of Scotland, the yield of Swede turnips, was 29¾ tons per acre, and the yield
of cabbage, 47¾ tons per acre.

“It is very evident,” said the Deacon, “that if you grow cabbage you should make the land rich
enough to produce a good crop--and I take it that is all you want to show.”

“I want to show,” I replied, “that our market gardeners have reason for applying such apparently
excessive dressings of rich manure to the cabbage-crop. They find it safer to put far more
manure into the land than the crop can possibly use, rather than run any risk of getting an
inferior crop. An important practical question is, whether they can not grow some crop or crops
after the cabbage, that can profitably take up the manure left in the soil.”

Prof. E. Wolff, in the last edition of “Praktische Düngerlehre,” gives the composition of cabbage.
For the details of which, see Appendix, page 345.

From this it appears that 50 tons of cabbage contain 240 lbs. of nitrogen, and 1,600 lbs. of
ash. Included in the ash is 630 lbs. of potash; 90 lbs. of soda; 310 lbs. of lime; 60 lbs.
of magnesia; 140 lbs. of phosphoric acid; 240 lbs. of sulphuric acid, and 20 lbs. of silica.

Henderson, in “Gardening for Profit,” advises the application of 75 tons of stable or barn-yard
manure per acre, for early cabbage. For late cabbage, after peas or early potatoes, he says
about 10 tons per acre are used.

Brill, in “Farm Gardening and Seed Growing,” also makes the same distinction in regard to the
quantity of manure used for early and late cabbage. He speaks of 70 to 80 tons or more, per
acre, of well-rotted stable-manure as not an unusual or excessive dressing every year.

Now, according to Wolff’s table, 75 tons of fresh stable-manure, with straw, contains 820 lbs.
of nitrogen; 795 lbs. of potash; 150 lbs. soda; 315 lbs. of lime; 210 lbs. of magnesia; 420
lbs. of phosphoric acid; 105 lbs. sulphuric acid; 2,655 lbs. of silica, and 60 lbs. of chlorine.

“Put the figures side by side,” said the Deacon, “so that we can compare them.”

Here they are:

  ------------------+--------------+-----------
                    |  75 tons    |
                    | Fresh Horse  | 50 tons
                    |  Manure.    |  Cabbage.
  ------------------+--------------+-----------
  Nitrogen          |   820 lbs.   |   240 lbs.
  Potash            |   795  ”     |   630  ”
  Phosphoric acid   |   420  ”     |   140  ”
  Soda              |   150  ”     |    90  ”
  Lime              |   315  ”     |   310  ”
  Magnesia          |   210  ”     |    60  ”
  ------------------+--------------+-----------

“That is rather an interesting table,” said the Doctor. “In the case of lime, the crop takes
about all that this heavy dressing of manure supplies--but I suppose the soil is usually capable
of furnishing a considerable quantity.”

“That may be so,” said the Deacon, “but all the authorities on market gardening speak of the
importance of either growing cabbage on land containing lime, or else of applying lime as a
manure. Quinn, who writes like a sensible man, says in his book, ‘Money in the Garden,’ ‘A
top-dressing of lime every third year, thirty or forty bushels per acre, spread broadcast,
and harrowed in, just before planting, pays handsomely.’”

Henderson thinks cabbage can only be grown successfully on land containing abundance of lime.
He has used heavy dressings of lime on land which did not contain shells, and the result was
satisfactory for a time, but he found it too expensive.

Experience seems to show that to grow large crops of perfect cabbage, the soil must be liberally
furnished with manures rich in nitrogen and phosphoric acid.

In saying this, I do not overlook the fact that cabbage require a large quantity of potash.
I think, however, that when large quantities of stable or barn-yard manure is used, it will
rarely be found that the soil lacks potash.

What we need to grow a large crop of cabbage, is manure from well-fed animals. Such manure
can rarely be purchased. Now, the difference between rich manure and ordinary stable or barnyard-manure,
consists principally in this: The rich manure contains more nitrogen and phosphoric acid than
the ordinary stable-manure--and it is in a more available condition.

To convert common manure into rich manure, therefore, we must add nitrogen and phosphoric acid.
In other words, we must use Peruvian guano, or nitrate of soda and superphosphate, or bone-dust,
or some other substance that will furnish available nitrogen and phosphoric acid.

Or it may well be, where stable-manure can be bought for $1.00 per two-horse load, that it
will be cheaper to use it in larger quantity rather than to try to make it rich. In this case,
however, we must endeavor to follow the cabbage by some crop that has the power of taking up
the large quantity of nitrogen and other plant-food that will be left in the soil.

The cabbage needs a large supply of nitrogen in the soil, but removes comparatively little
of it. We see that when 75 tons of manure is used, a crop of 50 tons of cabbage takes out of
the soil less than 30 per cent of the nitrogen. And yet, if you plant cabbage on this land,
the next year, without manure, you would get a small crop.

“It cannot be for want of nitrogen,” said the Deacon.

“Yes it can,” said I. “The cabbage, especially the early kinds, must have in the soil a much
larger quantity of available nitrogen than the plants can use.”

I do not mean by this that a large crop of cabbage could be raised, year after year, if furnished
only with a large supply of available nitrogen. In such a case, the soil would soon lack the
necessary inorganic ingredients. But, what I mean, is this: Where land has been heavily manured
for some years, we could often raise a good crop of cabbage by a liberal dressing of available
nitrogen, and still more frequently, if nitrogen and phosphoric acid were both used.

You may use what would be considered an excessive quantity of ordinary stable-manure, and grow
a large crop of cabbage; but still, if you plant cabbage the next year, without manure of any
kind, you will get a small crop; but dress it with a manure containing the necessary amount
of nitrogen, and you will, so far as the supply of plant-food is concerned, be likely to get
a good crop.

In such circumstances, I think an application of 800 lbs. of nitrate of soda per acre, costing,
say $32, would be likely to afford a very handsome profit.

For lettuce, in addition to well prepared rich land, I should sow 3 lbs. of superphosphate
to each square rod, scattered in the rows before drilling in the seed. It will favor the formation
of fibrous roots and stimulate the growth of the young plants.

In raising onions from seed, we require an abundance of rich, well-rotted manure, clean land,
and early sowing.

Onions are often raised year after year on the same land. That this entails a great waste of
manure, is highly probable, but it is not an easy matter to get ordinary farm-land properly
prepared for onions. It needs to be clean and free from stones and rubbish of all kinds, and
when once it is in good condition, it is thought better to continue it in onions, even though
it may entail more or less loss of fertility.

“What do you mean,” asked the Deacon, “by loss of manure?”

“Simply this,” said I. “We use a far greater amount of plant-food in the shape of manure than
is removed by the crop of onions. And yet, notwithstanding this fact, it is found, as a matter
of experience, that it is absolutely necessary, if we would raise a large and profitable crop,
to manure it every year.”

A few experiments would throw much light on this matter. I should expect, when land had been
heavily dressed every year for a few years, with stable-manure, and annually sown to onions,
that 800 lbs. of sulphate of ammonia, or of nitrate of soda, or 1,200 lbs. of Peruvian guano
would give as good a crop as 25 or 30 tons of manure. Or perhaps a better plan would be to
apply 10 or 15 loads of manure, and 600 lbs. of guano, or 400 lbs. sulphate of ammonia.

CHAPTER XXXV.

MANURES FOR GARDENS AND ORCHARDS.

MANURE FOR MARKET-GARDENS.

The chief dependence of the market gardener must be on the stable-manure which he can obtain
from the city or village. The chief defect of this manure is that it is not rich enough in
available nitrogen. The active nitrogen exists principally in the urine, and this in our city
stables is largely lost. A ton of fresh, unmixed horse-dung contains about 9 lbs. of nitrogen.
A ton of horse-urine, 31 lbs. But this does not tell the whole story. The nitrogen in the dung
is contained in the crude, undigested portions of the food. It is to a large extent insoluble
and unavailable, while the nitrogen in the urine is soluble and active.

The market-gardener, of course, has to take such manure as he can get, and the only points
to be considered are (1), whether he had better continue to use an excessive quantity of the
manure, or (2), to buy substances rich in available nitrogen, and either mix them with the
manure, or apply them separately to the soil, or (3), whether he can use this horse-manure
as bedding for pigs to be fed on rich nitrogenous food.

The latter plan I adopt on my own farm, and in this way I get a very rich and active manure.
I get available nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, at far cheaper rates than they can be
purchased in the best commercial fertilizers.

Pigs void a large amount of urine, and as pigs are ordinarily kept, much of this liquid is
lost for want of sufficient bedding to absorb it. With the market-gardener or nurseryman, who
draws large quantities of horse-manure from the city, this need not be the case. The necessary
buildings can be constructed at little cost, and the horse-manure can be used freely. The pigs
should be fed on food rich in nitrogen, such as bran, malt-combs, brewers’ grains, the refuse
animal matter from the slaughter-houses or butchers’ stores, fish scrap, pea or lentil-meal,
palm-nut cake, or such food as will furnish the most nitrogenous food, other things being equal,
at the cheapest rate.

The market-gardener not only requires large quantities of rich manure, but he wants them to
act quickly. The nurseryman who sets out a block of trees which will occupy the ground for
three, four, or five years, may want a “lasting manure,” but such is not the case with the
gardener who grows crops which he takes off the land in a few months. As long as he continues
to use horse or cow-manure freely, he need not trouble himself to get a slow or lasting manure.
His great aim should be to make the manure as active and available as possible. And this is
especially the case if he occupies clayey or loamy land. On sandy land the manure will decompose
more rapidly and act quicker.

“There are many facts,” said the Doctor, “that show that an artificial application of water
is equivalent to an application of manure. It has been shown that market-gardeners find it
necessary to apply a much larger amount of plant-food to the soil than the crops can take up.
This they have to do year after year. And it may well be that, when a supply of water can be
had at slight cost, it will be cheaper to irrigate the land, or water the plants, rather than
to furnish such an excess of manure, as is now found necessary. Even with ordinary farm-crops,
we know that they feel the effects of drouth far less on rich land than on poor land. In other
words, a liberal supply of plant-food enables the crops to flourish with less water; and, on
the other hand, a greater supply of water will enable the crops to flourish with a less supply
of plant-food. The market-gardeners should look into this question of irrigation.”

MANURES FOR SEED-GROWING FARMS.

In growing garden and vegetable seeds, much labor is necessarily employed per acre, and consequently
it is of great importance to produce a good yield. The best and cleanest land is necessary
to start with, and then manures must be appropriately and freely used.

“But not too freely,” said the Doctor, “for I am told it is quite possible to have land too
rich for seed-growing.”

It is not often that the land is too rich. Still, it may well be that for some crops too much
stable-manure is used. But in nine cases out of ten, when such manure gives too much growth
and too little or too poor seed, the trouble is in the quality of the manure. It contains too
much carbonaceous matter. In other words, it is so poor in nitrogen and phosphoric acid, that
an excessive quantity has to be used.

The remedy consists in making richer manures and using a less quantity, or use half the quantity
of stable-manure, and apply the rectified or prepared Peruvian guano, at the rate of 300 lbs.
or 400 lbs. per acre, or say 200 lbs. superphosphate and 200 lbs. nitrate of soda per acre.

Where it is very important to have the seeds ripen early, a liberal dressing, say 400 lbs.
per acre, of superphosphate of lime, will be likely to prove beneficial.

MANURE FOR PRIVATE GARDENS.

I once had a small garden in the city, and having no manure, I depended entirely on thorough
cultivation and artificial fertilizers, such as superphosphate and sulphate of ammonia. It
was cultivated not for profit, but for pleasure, but I never saw a more productive piece of
land. I had in almost every case two crops a year on the same land, and on some plots three
crops. No manure was used, except the superphosphate and sulphate of ammonia, and coal and
wood ashes from the house.

About 5 lbs. of sulphate of ammonia was sown broadcast to the square rod, or worked into the
soil very thoroughly in the rows where the seed was to be sown. Superphosphate was applied
at the same rate, but instead of sowing it broadcast, I aimed to get it as near the seed or
the roots of plants as possible.

Half a teaspoonful of the mixture, consisting of equal parts of superphosphate and sulphate
of ammonia, stirred into a large three gallon can of water, and sprinkled on to a bed of verbenas,
seemed to have a remarkable effect on the size and brilliancy of the flowers.

Even to this day, although I have a good supply of rich barnyard-manure, I do not like to be
without some good artificial manure for the garden.

MANURE FOR HOT-BEDS.

The best manure for hot-beds is horse or sheep-dung that has been used as bedding for pigs.

When fresh stable-manure is used, great pains should be taken to save all the urine. In other
words, you want the horse-dung thoroughly saturated with urine.

The heat is produced principally from the carbon in the manure and straw, but you need active
nitrogenous matter to start the fire. And the richer the manure is in nitrogenous matter, and
the more thoroughly this is distributed through the manure, the more readily will it ferment.
There is also another advantage in having rich manure, or manure well saturated with urine.
You can make the heap more compact. Poor manure has to be made in a loose heap, or it will
not ferment; but such manure as we are talking about can be trodden down quite firm, and still
ferment rapid enough to give out the necessary heat, and this compact heap will continue to
ferment longer and give out a steadier heat, than the loose heap of poor manure.

MANURE FOR NURSERYMEN.

Our successful nurserymen purchase large quantities of stable and other manures from the cities,
drawing it as fast as it is made, and putting it in piles until wanted. They usually turn the
piles once or twice, and often three times. This favors fermentation, greatly reducing it in
bulk, and rendering the manure much more soluble and active. It also makes the manure in the
heap more uniform in quality.

Messrs. Ellwanger & Barry tell me that they often ferment the manure that they draw from the
stables in the city, and make it so fine and rich, that they get but one load of rotted manure
from three loads as drawn from the stables. For some crops, they use at least 20 loads of this
rotted manure per acre, and they estimate that each load of this rotted manure costs at least
$5.00.

H. E. Hooker places the cost of manure equally high, but seems willing to use all he can get,
and does not think we can profitably employ artificial manures as a substitute.

In this I agree with him. But while I should not expect artificial manures, when used alone,
to prove as cheap or as valuable as stable-manure at present prices, I think it may well be
that a little nitrate of soda, sulphate of ammonia, and superphosphate of lime, or dissolved
Peruvian guano, might be used as an auxiliary manure to great advantage.

Mr. H. E. Hooker, once sowed, at my suggestion, some sulphate of ammonia and superphosphate
on part of a block of nursery trees, and he could not perceive that these manures did any good.
Ellwanger & Barry also tried them, and reported the same negative result. This was several
years ago, and I do not think any similar experiments have been made since.

“And yet,” said the Deacon, “you used these self same manures on farm-crops, and they greatly
increased the growth.”

“There are several reasons,” said the Doctor, “why these manures may have failed to produce
any marked effect on the nursery trees. In the first place, there was considerable prejudice
against them, and the nurserymen would hardly feel like relying on these manures alone. They
probably sowed them on land already well manured; and I think they sowed them too late in the
season. I should like to see them fairly tried.”

So would I. It seems to me that nitrate of soda, and superphosphate, or dissolved Peruvian
guano, could be used with very great advantage and profit by the nurserymen. Of course, it
would hardly be safe to depend upon them alone. They should be used either in connection with
stable-manure, or on land that had previously been frequently dressed with stable-manure.

MANURE FOR FRUIT-GROWERS.

How to keep up the fertility of our apple-orchards, is becoming an important question, and
is attracting considerable attention.

There are two methods generally recommended--I dare not say generally practised. The one, is
to keep the orchard in bare-fallow; the other, to keep it in grass, and top-dress with manure,
and either eat the grass off on the land with sheep and pigs, or else mow it frequently, and
let the grass rot on the surface, for mulch and manure.

“You are speaking now,” said the Deacon, “of bearing apple-orchards. No one recommends keeping
a young orchard in grass. We all know that young apple trees do far better when the land is
occupied with corn, potatoes, beans, or some other crop, which can be cultivated, than they
do on land occupied with wheat, barley, oats, rye, buckwheat, or grass and clover. And even
with bearing peach trees, I have seen a wonderful difference in an orchard, half of which was
cultivated with corn, and the other half sown with wheat. The trees in the wheat were sickly-looking,
and bore a small crop of inferior fruit, while the trees in the corn, grew vigorously and bore
a fine crop of fruit. And the increased value of the crop of peaches on the cultivated land
was far more than we can ever hope to get from a crop of wheat.”

“And yet,” said the Doctor, “the crop of corn on the cultivated half of the peach-orchard removed
far more plant-food from the soil, than the crop of wheat. And so it is evident that the difference
is not due wholly to the supply of manure in the surface-soil. It may well be that the cultivation
which the corn received favored the decomposition of organic matter in the soil, and the formation
of nitrates, and when the rain came, it would penetrate deeper into the loose soil than on
the adjoining land occupied with wheat. The rain would carry the nitrogen down to the roots
of the peach trees, and this will account for the dark green color of the leaves on the cultivated
land, and the yellow, sickly-looking leaves on the trees among the wheat.”

HEN-MANURE, AND WHAT TO DO WITH IT.

A bushel of corn fed to a hen would give no more nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, in
the shape of manure, than a bushel of corn fed to a pig. The manure from the pig, however,
taking the urine and solid excrement together, contain 82 per cent of water, while that from
the hen contains only 56 per cent of water. Moreover, hens pick up worms and insects, and their
food in such case would contain more nitrogen than the usual food of pigs, and the manure would
be correspondingly richer in nitrogen. Hence it happens that 100 lbs. of dry hen-manure would
usually be richer in nitrogen than 100 lbs. of dry pig-manure. But feed pigs on peas, and hens
on corn, and the dry pig-manure would be much richer in nitrogen than the dry hen-manure. The
value of the manure, other things being equal, depends on the food and not on the animal.

Let no man think he is going to make his farm any richer by keeping hens, ducks, and geese,
than he will by keeping sheep, pigs, and horses.

“Why is it, then,” asked the Deacon, “that hen-dung proves such a valuable manure. I would
rather have a hundred lbs. of hen-dung than half a ton of barnyard-manure?”

“And I presume you are right,” said I, “but you must recollect that your hen-manure is kept
until it is almost chemically dry. Let us figure up what the half ton of manure and the 100
lbs. of hen-manure would contain. Here are the figures, side by side:

  --------------------------+---------------+-------------
                            | 100 lbs. dry | Half ton
                            |  Hen-Manure. | Cow-Dung
                            |               | with straw.
  --------------------------+---------------+-------------
  Water (estimated)         |   12  lbs.    |   775  lbs.
  Organic Matter            |   51   ”      |   203   ”
  Ash                       |   37   ”      |    22   ”
                            +---------------+-------------
  Nitrogen                  |    3¼  ”      |     3⅖  ”
  Potash                    |    1¾  ”      |     4   ”
  Lime                      |    4¾  ”      |     3   ”
  Phosphoric acid           |    3   ”      |     1½  ”
  --------------------------+---------------+-------------

I would, myself, far rather have 100 lbs. of your dry hen-manure than half a ton of your farmyard-manure.
Your hens are fed on richer food than your cows. The 100 lbs. of hen-manure, too, would act
much more rapidly than the half ton of cow-manure. It would probably do twice as much good--possibly
three or four times as much good, on the first crop, as the cow-manure. The nitrogen, being
obtained from richer and more digestible food, is in a much more active and available condition
than the nitrogen in the cow-dung.

“If you go on,” said the Deacon, “I think you will prove that I am right.”

“I have never doubted,” said I, “the great value of hen-dung, as compared with barnyard-manure.
And all I wish to show is, that, notwithstanding its acknowledged value, the fact remains that
a given quantity of the same kind of food will give no greater amount of fertilizing matter
when fed to a hen than if fed to a pig.”

I want those farmers who find so much benefit from an application of hen-manure, ashes, and
plaster, to their corn and potatoes, to feel that if they would keep better cows, sheep, and
pigs, and feed them better, they would get good pay for their feed, and the manure would enable
them to grow larger crops.

While we have been talking, the Deacon was looking over the tables. (See Appendix.) “I see,”
said he, “that wheat and rye contain more nitrogen than hen-manure, but less potash and phosphoric
acid.”

“This is true,” said I, “but the way to compare them, in order to see the effect of passing
the wheat through the hen, is to look at the composition of the air-dried hen-dung. The fresh
hen-dung, according to the table, contains 56 per cent of water, while wheat contains less
than 14½ per cent.”

Let us compare the composition of 1,000 lbs. air-dried hen-dung with 1,000 lbs. of air-dried
wheat and rye, and also with bran, malt-combs, etc.

                                             Phosphoric
                     Nitrogen.  Potash.     Acid.
  Wheat                 20.8         5.3         7.9
  Wheat Bran            22.4        14.3        27.3
  Rye                   17.6         5.6         8.4
  Rye Bran              23.2        19.3        34.3
  Buckwheat             14.4         2.7         5.7
  Buckwheat Bran        27.2        11.2        12.5
  Malt-roots            36.8        20.6        18.0
  Air-dry Hen-dung.     32.6        17.0        30.8

“That table,” said the Doctor, “is well worth studying. You see, that when wheat is put through
the process of milling, the miller takes out as much of the starch and gluten as he wants,
and leaves you a product (bran), richer in phosphoric acid, potash, and nitrogen, than you
gave him.”

“And the same is true,” continued the Doctor, “of the hen. You gave her 2,000 grains of wheat,
containing 41.6 grains of nitrogen. She puts this through the mill, together with some ashes,
and bones, that she picks up, and she takes out all the starch and fat, and nitrogen, and phosphate
of lime, that she needs to sustain life, and to produce flesh, bones, feathers, and eggs, and
leaves you 1,000 grains of manure containing 32.6 grains of nitrogen, 17.0 grains of potash,
and 30.8 grains of phosphoric acid. I do not say,” continued the Doctor, “that it takes exactly
2,000 grains of wheat to make 1,000 grains of dry manure. I merely give these figures to enable
the Deacon to understand why 1,000 lbs. of hen-dung is worth more for manure than 1,000 lbs.
of wheat.”

“I must admit,” said the Deacon, “that I always have been troubled to understand why wheat-bran
was worth more for manure than the wheat itself, I see now--it is because there is less of
it. It is for the same reason that boiled cider is richer than the cider from which it is made.
The cider has lost water, and the bran has lost starch. What is left is richer in nitrogen,
and potash, and phosphoric acid. And so it is with manure. The animals take out of the food
the starch and fat, and leave the manure richer in nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash.”

“Exactly,” said I, “Mr. Lawes found by actual experiment, that if you feed 500 lbs. of barley-meal
to a pig, containing 420 lbs. of dry substance, you get only 70 lbs. of dry substance in the
manure. Of the 420 lbs. of dry substance, 276.2 lbs. are used to support respiration, etc.;
73.8 lbs. are found in the increase of the pig, and 70 lbs. in the manure.”

The food contains 52 lbs. of nitrogenous matter; the increase of pig contains 7 lbs., and consequently,
if there is no loss, the manure should contain 45 lbs. of nitrogenous substance = to 7.14 lbs.
of nitrogen.

“In other words,” said the Doctor, “the 70 lbs. of dry liquid and solid pig-manure contains
7.14 lbs. of nitrogen, or 100 lbs. would contain 10.2 lbs. of nitrogen, which is more nitrogen
than we now get in the very best samples of Peruvian guano.”

“And thus it will be seen,” said I, “that though corn-fed pigs, leaving out the bedding and
water, produce a very small quantity of manure, it is exceedingly rich.”

The table from which these facts were obtained, will be found in the Appendix--pages 342-3.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

DIFFERENT KINDS OF MANURE.

COW-MANURE, AND HOW TO USE IT.

“It will do more good if fermented,” said a German farmer in the neighborhood, who is noted
for raising good crops of cabbage, “but I like hog-manure better than cow-dung. The right way
is to mix the hog-manure, cow-dung, and horse-manure together.”

“No doubt about that,” said I, “but when you have a good many cows, and few other animals,
how would you manage the manure?”

“I would gather leaves and swamp-muck, and use them for bedding the cows and pigs. Leaves make
splendid bedding, and they make rich manure, and the cow-dung and leaves, when made into a
pile, will ferment readily, and make grand manure for--anything. I only wish I had all I could
use.”

There is no question but what cow-manure is better if fermented, but it is not always convenient
to pile it during the winter in such a way that it will not freeze. And in this case it may
be the better plan to draw it out on to the land, as opportunity offers.

“I have heard,” said Charley, “that pig-manure was not good for cabbage, it produces ‘fingers
and toes,’ or club-foot.”

Possibly such is the case when there is a predisposition to the disease, but our German friend
says he has never found any ill-effects from its use.

“Cows,” said the Doctor, “when giving a large quantity of milk, make rather poor manure. The
manure loses what the milk takes from the food.”

“We have shown what that loss is,” said I. “It amounts to less than I think is generally supposed.
And in the winter, when the cows are dry, the manure would be as rich as from oxen, provided
both were fed alike. See Appendix, page 342. It will there be seen that oxen take out only
4.1 lbs. of nitrogen from 100 lbs. of nitrogen consumed in the food. In other words, provided
there is no loss, we should get in the liquid and solid excrements of the ox and dry cow 95.9
per cent of the nitrogen furnished in the food, and a still higher per cent of the mineral matter.”

SHEEP-MANURE.

According to Prof. Wolff’s table of analyses, sheep-manure, both solid and liquid, contain
less water than the manure from horses, cows, or swine. With the exception of swine, the solid
dung is also the richest in nitrogen, while the urine of sheep is pre-eminently rich in nitrogen
and potash.

These facts are in accordance with the general opinions of farmers. Sheep-manure is considered,
next to hen-manure, the most valuable manure made on the farm.

I do not think we have any satisfactory evidence to prove that 3 tons of clover-hay and a ton
of corn fed to a lot of fattening-sheep will afford a quantity of manure containing any more
plant-food than the same kind and amount of food fed to a lot of fattening-cattle. The experiments
of Lawes & Gilbert indicate that if there is any difference it is in favor of the ox. See Appendix,
page 343. But it may well be that it is much easier to save the manure from the sheep than
from the cattle. And so, practically, sheep may be better manure-makers than cattle--for the
simple reason that less of the urine is lost.

“As a rule,” said the Doctor, “the dung of sheep contains far less water than the dung of cattle,
though when you slop your breeding ewes to make them give more milk, the dung differs but little
in appearance from that of cows. Ordinarily, however, sheep-dung is light and dry, and, like
horse-dung, will ferment much more rapidly than cow or pig-dung. In piling manure in the winter
or spring, special pains should be used to mix the sheep and horse-manure with the cow and
pig-manure. And it may be remarked that for any crop or for any purpose where stable-manure
is deemed desirable, sheep-manure would be a better substitute than cow or pig-manure.”

MANURE FROM SWINE.

The dry matter of hog-manure, especially the urine, is rich in nitrogen, but it is mixed with
such a large quantity of water that a ton of hog-manure, as it is usually found in the pen,
is less valuable than a ton of horse or sheep-manure, and only a little more valuable than
a ton of cow-manure.

As I have before said, my own plan is to let the store-hogs sleep in a basement-cellar, and
bed them with horse and sheep-manure. I have this winter over 50 sows under the horse-stable,
and the manure from 8 horses keeps them dry and comfortable, and we are not specially lavish
with straw in bedding the horses.

During the summer we aim to keep the hogs out in the pastures and orchards as much as possible.
This is not only good for the health of the pigs, but saves labor and straw in the management
of the manure. It goes directly to the land. The pigs are good grazers and distribute the manure
as evenly over the land as sheep--in fact, during hot weather, sheep are even more inclined
to huddle together under the trees, and by the side of the fence, than pigs. This is particularly
the case with the larger breeds of sheep.

In the winter it is not a difficult matter to save all the liquid and solid excrements from
pigs, provided the pens are dry and no water comes in from the rain and snow. As pigs are often
managed, this is the real difficulty. Pigs void an enormous quantity of water, especially when
fed on slops from the house, whey, etc. If they are kept in a pen with a separate feeding and
sleeping apartment, both should be under cover, and the feeding apartment may be kept covered
a foot or so thick with the soiled bedding from the sleeping apartment. When the pigs get up
in a morning, they will go into the feeding apartment, and the liquid will be discharged on
the mass of manure, straw, etc.

“Dried muck,” said the Deacon, “comes in very handy about a pig-pen, for absorbing the liquid.”

“Yes,” said I, “and even dry earth can be used to great advantage, not merely to absorb the
liquid, but to keep the pens sweet and healthy. The three chief points in saving manure from
pigs are: 1, To have the pens under cover; 2, to keep the feeding apartment or yard covered
with a thick mass of strawy manure and refuse of any kind, and 3, to scatter plenty of dry
earth or dry muck on the floor of the sleeping apartment, and on top of the manure in the feeding
apartment.”

“You feed most of your pigs,” said the Deacon, “out of doors in the yard, and they sleep in
the pens or basement cellars, and it seems to me to be a good plan, as they get more fresh
air and exercise than if confined.”

“We do not lose much manure,” said I, “by feeding in the yards. You let a dozen pigs sleep
in a pen all night, and as soon as they hear you putting the food in the troughs outside, they
come to the door of the pen, and there discharge the liquid and solid excrements on the mass
of manure left there on purpose to receive and absorb them. I am well aware that as pigs are
often managed, we lose at least half the value of their manure, but there is no necessity for
this. A little care and thought will save nearly the whole of it.”

BUYING MANURE BY MEASURE OR WEIGHT.

The Deacon and I have just been weighing a bushel of different kinds of manure made on the
farm. We made two weighings of each kind, one thrown in loose, and the other pressed down firm.
The following is the result:

  Weight of Manure per Bushel, and per Load of 50 Bushels.

  Wt/Bu   Weight per Bushel in lbs.
  Wt/Load Weight per Load of 50 bushels.

  ---+--------------------------------------------+-------+---------
  No.|          Kind And Condition Of Manures.    | Wt/Bu | Wt/Load
  ---+--------------------------------------------+-------+---------
     |                                            | lbs.  |  lbs.
   1.|Fresh horse-manure free from straw          |  37½  |  1875
   2.|  ”     ”     ”      ”    ”    ”   pressed  |  55   |  2750
   3.|Fresh horse-manure,                         |       |
     |  as used for bedding pigs                  |  28   |  1400
   4.|  ”     ”     ”                             |       |
     |   ”    ”  ”    ”     ”    pressed          |  46   |  2300
   5.|Horse-manure from pig cellar                |  50   |  2500
   6.|   ”    ”     ”    ”    ”    pressed        |  72   |  3600
   7.|Pig-manure                                  |  57   |  2850
   8.| ”    ”    pressed                          |  75   |  3750
   9.|Pig-manure and dry earth                    |  98   |  4900
  10.|Sheep-manure from open shed                 |  42   |  2100
  11.|  ”     ”     ”    ”    ”   pressed         |  65   |  3250
  12.|Sheep-manure from closed shed               |  28   |  1400
  13.|  ”     ”     ”     ”     ”   pressed       |  38   |  1900
  14.|Fresh cow-dung, free from straw             |  87   |  4350
  15.|Hen-manure                                  |  34   |  1700
  16.| ”    ”    pressed                          |  48   |  2400
  ---+--------------------------------------------+-------+---------

“In buying manure,” said the Deacon, “it makes quite a difference whether the load is trod
down solid or thrown loosely into the box. A load of fresh horse-manure, when trod down, weighs
half as much again as when thrown in loose.”

“A load of horse-manure,” said Charley, “after it has been used for bedding pigs, weighs 3,600
lbs., and only 2,300 lbs. when it is thrown into the pens, and I suppose a ton of the ‘double-worked’
manure is fully as valuable as a ton of the fresh horse-manure. If so, 15 ‘loads’ of the pig-pen
manure is equal to 24 ‘loads’ of the stable-manure.”

“A ton of fresh horse-manure,” said the Doctor, “contains about 9 lbs. of nitrogen; a ton of
fresh cow-dung about 6 lbs.; a ton of fresh sheep-dung, 11 lbs., and a ton of fresh pig-manure,
12 lbs. But if the Deacon and you weighed correctly, a ‘load’ or cord of cow-manure would contain
more nitrogen than a load of pressed horse-manure. The figures are as follows:

  A load of 50 bushels of fresh horse-dung,
      pressed and free from straw contains   12.37 lbs. nitrogen.
  A load of fresh cow-dung                   13.05  ”    ”
      ”     ”     sheep ”                    10.45  ”    ”
      ”     ”     pig   ”                    22.50  ”    ”

“These figures,” said I, “show how necessary it is to look at this subject in all its aspects.
If I was buying manures by weight, I would much prefer a ton of sheep-manure, if it had been
made under cover, to any other manure except hen-dung, especially if it contained all the urine
from the sheep. But if buying manure by the load or cord, that from a covered pig-pen would
be preferable to any other.”

LIQUID MANURE ON THE FARM.

I have never had any personal experience in the use of liquid manure to any crop except grass.
At Rothamsted, Mr. Lawes used to draw out the liquid manure in a water-cart, and distribute
it on grass land.

“What we want to know,” said the Deacon, “is whether the liquid from our barn-yards will pay
to draw out. If it will, the proper method of using it can be left to our ingenuity.”

According to Prof. Wolff, a ton of urine from horses, cows, sheep, and swine, contains the
following amounts of nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, and, for the sake of comparison,
I give the composition of drainage from the barn-yard, and also of fresh dung of the different
animals:

  Table Showing the Amount of Nitrogen, Phosphoric Acid, and Potash,
  in One Ton of the Fresh Dung and Fresh Urine of Different Animals,
  and Also of the Drainage of the Barn-Yard.

  Nitro(gen).
  Phos(phoric) Acid.
  Pot(ash).

  ---------------+----------------------+-----------------------
                 | 1 Ton Fresh Dung.    | 1 Ton Fresh Urine.
  ---------------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------
                 |Nitro. |Phos.  | Pot. |Nitro. |Phos.  | Pot.
                 |       |acid.  |      |       |acid.  |
  ---------------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------
                 | lbs.  |  lbs. | lbs. | lbs.  | lbs.  | lbs.
  Horse          |  8.8  |   7.0 | 7.0  | 31.0  |       |  30.0
  Cow            |  5.8  |   3.4 | 2.0  | 11.6  |       |   9.8
  Sheep          | 11.0  |   6.2 | 3.0  | 39.0  |  0.2  |  45.2
  Swine          | 12.0  |   8.2 | 5.2  |  8.6  |  1.4  |  16.6
  Mean           |  9.4  |   6.2 | 4.3  | 22.5  |  0.4  |  25.4
  Drainage of    |       |       |      |       |       |
      barn-yard  |       |       |      |  3.0  |  0.2  |   9.8
  ---------------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------

The drainage from a barn-yard, it will be seen, contains a little more than half as much nitrogen
as cow-dung; and it is probable that the nitrogen in the liquid is in a much more available
condition than that in the dung. It contains, also, nearly five times as much potash as the
dung. It would seem, therefore, that with proper arrangements for pumping and distributing,
this liquid could be drawn a short distance with profit.

But whether it will or will not pay to cart away the drainage, it is obviously to our interest
to prevent, as far as possible, any of the liquid from running to waste.

It is of still greater importance to guard against any loss of urine. It will be seen that,
on the average, a ton of the urine of our domestic animals contains more than twice as much
nitrogen as a ton of the dung.

Where straw, leaves, swamp-muck, or other absorbent materials are not sufficiently abundant
to prevent any loss of urine, means should be used to drain it into a tank so located that
the liquid can either be pumped back on to the manure when needed, or drawn away to the land.

“I do not see,” said the Deacon, “why horse and sheep-urine should contain so much more nitrogen
and potash than that from the cow and pig.”

“The figures given by Prof. Wolff,” said I, “are general averages. The composition of the urine
varies greatly. The richer the food in digestible nitrogenous matter, the more nitrogen will
there be in the dry matter of the urine. And, other things being equal, the less water the
animal drinks, the richer will the urine be in nitrogen. The urine from a sheep fed solely
on turnips would contain little or no more nitrogen than the urine of a cow fed on turnips.
An ox or a dry cow fed on grass would probably void no more nor no poorer urine than a horse
fed on grass. The urine that Mr. Lawes drew out in a cart on to his grass-land was made by
sheep that had one lb. each of oil-cake per day, and one lb. of chaffed clover-hay, and all
the turnips they would eat. They voided a large quantity of urine, but as the food was rich
in nitrogen, the urine was doubtless nearly or quite as rich as that analyzed by Prof. Wolff,
though that probably contained less water.”

If I was going to draw out liquid manure, I should be very careful to spout all the buildings,
and keep the animals and manure as much under cover as possible, and also feed food rich in
nitrogen. In such circumstances, it would doubtless pay to draw the urine full as well as to
draw the solid manure.

NIGHTSOIL AND SEWAGE.

  Phos(phoric) Acid.

  -----------+----------------------------+----------------------------
             |          Solids            |          Urine
   One ton   +---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+---------
  (2000 lbs).|         |  Phos.  |        |         |  Phos. |
             |Nitrogen.|  acid.  |Potash. |Nitrogen.|  acid. |Potash.
  -----------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+---------
  Human      |20.0 lbs.|21.8 lbs.|5.0 lbs.|12.0 lbs.|3.7 lbs.| 4.0 lbs.
  -----------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+---------
  Mean of    |         |         |        |         |        |
  horse, cow,|         |         |        |         |        |
  sheep, and |         |         |        |         |        |
  swine      | 9.4  ”  | 6.2  ”  |4.3  ”  |22.5  ”  |0.4  ”  |25.4  ”
  -----------+---------+---------+--------+---------+--------+---------

One ton of fresh fæces contains more than twice as much nitrogen, and more than three times
as much phosphoric acid, as a ton of fresh mixed animal-dung. The nitrogen, too, is probably
in a more available condition than that in common barnyard-dung; and we should not be far wrong
in estimating 1 ton of fæces equal to 2½ tons of ordinary dung, or about equal in value to
carefully preserved manure from liberally-fed sheep, swine, and fattening cattle.

“It is an unpleasant job,” said the Deacon, “but it pays well to empty the vaults at least
twice a year.”

“If farmers,” said the Doctor, “would only throw into the vaults from time to time some dry
earth or coal ashes, the contents of the vaults could be removed without any disagreeable smell.”

“That is so,” said I, “and even where a vault has been shamefully neglected, and is full of
offensive matter, it can be cleaned out without difficulty and without smell. I have cleaned
out a large vault in an hour. We were drawing manure from the yards with three teams and piling
it in the field. We brought back a load of sand and threw half of it into the vault, and put
the other half on one side, to be used as required. The sand and fæces were then, with a long-handled
shovel, thrown into the wagon, and drawn to the pile of manure in the field, and thrown on
to the pile, not more than two or three inches thick. The team brought back a load of sand,
and so we continued until the work was done. Sand or dry earth is cheap, and we used all that
was necessary to prevent the escape of any unpleasant gases, and to keep the material from
adhering to the shovels or the wagon.”

“Human urine,” said the Doctor, “is richer in phosphoric acid, but much poorer in nitrogen
and potash than the urine from horses, cows, sheep, and swine.”

“Some years ago,” said the Deacon, “Mr. H. E. Hooker, of Rochester, used to draw considerable
quantities of urine from the city to his farm. It would pay better to draw out the urine from
farm animals.”

“The figures given above,” said I, “showing the composition of human excrements, are from Prof.
Wolff, and probably are generally correct. But, of course, the composition of the excrements
would vary greatly, according to the food.”

It has been ascertained by Lawes and Gilbert that the amount of matter voided by an adult male
in the course of a year is--fæces, 95 lbs.; urine, 1,049 lbs.; total liquid and solid excrements
in the pure state, 1,144 lbs. These contain:

  Dry substance--fæces, 23¾ lbs.; urine, 34½; total, 58¼ lbs.
  Mineral matter--fæces, 2½ lbs.; urine, 12; total, 14½ lbs.
  Carbon--fæces, 10 lbs.; urine, 12; total 22 lbs.
  Nitrogen--fæces, 1.2 lbs.; urine, 10.8; total, 12 lbs.
  Phosphoric acid--fæces, 0.7 lbs.; urine, 1.93; total, 2.63 lbs.
  Potash--fæces, 0.24 lbs.; urine, 2.01; total, 2.25 lbs.

The amount of potash is given by Prof. E. Wolff, not by Lawes and Gilbert.

The mixed solid and liquid excrements, in the condition they leave the body, contain about
95 per cent of water. It would require, therefore, 20 tons of fresh mixed excrements, to make
one ton of dry nightsoil, or the entire amount voided by a mixed family of 43 persons in a year.

One hundred lbs. of fresh fæces contain 75 lbs. of water, and 25 lbs. of dry substance.

One hundred lbs. of fresh urine contain 96½ lbs. of water, and 3½ lbs. of dry substance.

One hundred lbs. of the dry substance of the fæces contain 5 lbs. of nitrogen, and 5½ lbs.
of phosphates.

One hundred lbs. of the dry substance of the urine contain 27 lbs. of nitrogen, and 10¾ lbs.
of phosphates.

These figures are from Lawes and Gilbert, and may be taken as representing the composition
of excrements from moderately well-fed persons.

According to Wolff, a ton of fresh human urine contains 12 lbs. of nitrogen. According to Lawes
and Gilbert, 18 lbs.

The liquid carted from the city by Mr. Hooker was from well-fed adult males, and would doubtless
be fully equal to the figures given by Lawes and Gilbert. If we call the nitrogen worth 20
cents a lb., and the phosphoric acid (soluble) worth 12½ cents, a ton of such urine would be
worth, on the land, $1.06.

“A ton of the fresh fæces,” said the Deacon, “at the same estimate, would be worth (20 lbs.
nitrogen, at 20 cents, $4; 21¾ lbs. phosphoric acid, at 12½ cents, $2.70), $6.70.”

“Not by a good deal,” said the Doctor. “The nitrogen and phosphoric acid in the urine are both
soluble, and would be immediately available. But the nitrogen and phosphoric acid in the fæces
would be mostly insoluble. We cannot estimate the nitrogen in the fæces at over 15 cents a
lb., and the phosphoric acid at 5 cents. This would make the value of a ton of fresh fæces,
on the land, $4.09.”

“This makes the ton of fæces worth about the same as a ton of urine. But I would like to know,”
said the Deacon, “if you really believe we could afford to pay $4 per ton for the stuff delivered
on the farm?”

“If we could get the genuine article,” said the Doctor, “it would be worth $4 a ton. But, as
a rule, it is mixed with water, and dirt, and stones, and bricks, and rubbish of all kinds.
Still, it is unquestionably a valuable fertilizer.”

“In the dry-earth closets,” said I, “such a large quantity of earth has to be used to absorb
the liquid, that the material, even if used several times, is not worth carting any considerable
distance. Dr. Gilbert found that 5 tons of absolutely dry earth, before using, contained 16.7
lbs. of nitrogen.

  After being used once,  5 tons of the dry earth contained 24.0 lbs.
    ”     ”    ”   twice,       ”    ”     ”    ”       ”     36.3  ”
    ”     ”    ”   three times, ”    ”     ”    ”       ”     44.6  ”
    ”     ”    ”   four times,  ”    ”     ”    ”       ”     54.0  ”
    ”     ”    ”   five times,  ”    ”     ”    ”       ”     61.4  ”
    ”     ”    ”   six times,   ”    ”     ”    ”       ”     71.6  ”

Dr. Vœlcker found that five tons of dry earth gained about 7 lbs. of nitrogen, and 11 lbs.
of phosphoric acid, each time it was used in the closets. If we consider each lb. of nitrogen
with the phosphoric acid worth 20 cents a lb., 5 tons of the dry earth, after being used once,
would be worth $1.46, or less than 30 cents a ton, and after it had been used six times, five
tons of the material would be worth $11.98, or about $2.40 per ton.

In this calculation I have not reckoned in the value of the nitrogen the soil contained before
using. Soil, on a farm, is cheap.

It is clear from these facts that any earth-closet manure a farmer would be likely to purchase
in the city has not a very high value. It is absurd to talk of making “guano” or any concentrated
fertilizer out of the material from earth-closets.

“It is rather a reflection on our science and practical skill,” said the Doctor, “but it looks
at present as though the only plan to adopt in large cities is to use enormous quantities of
water and wash the stuff into the rivers and oceans for the use of aquatic plants and fishes.
The nitrogen is not all lost. Some of it comes back to us in rains and dews. Of course, there
are places where the sewage of our cities and villages can be used for irrigating purposes.
But when water is used as freely as it ought to be used for health, the sewage is so extremely
poor in fertilizing matter, that it must be used in enormous quantities, to furnish a dressing
equal to an application of 20 tons of stable-manure per acre.”

“If,” continued the Doctor, “the sewage is used merely as water for irrigating purposes, that
is another question. The water itself may often be of great benefit. This aspect of the question
has not received the attention it merits.”

PERUVIAN GUANO.

Guano is the manure of birds that live principally on fish.

Fish contain a high percentage of nitrogen and phosphoric acid, and consequently when fish
are digested and the carbon is burnt out of them, the manure that is left contains a still
higher percentage of nitrogen and phosphoric acid than the fish from which it was derived.

Guano is digested fish. If the guano, or the manure from the birds living on fish, has been
preserved without loss, it would contain not only a far higher percentage of nitrogen, but
the nitrogen would be in a much more available condition, and consequently be more valuable
than the fish from which the guano is made.

The difference in the value of guano is largely due to a difference in the climate and locality
in which it is deposited by the birds. In a rainless and hot climate, where the bird-droppings
would dry rapidly, little or no putrefaction or fermentation would take place, and there would
be no loss of nitrogen from the formation and escape of ammonia.

In a damper climate, or where there was more or less rain, the bird-droppings would putrefy,
and the ammonia would be liable to evaporate, or to be leached out by the rain.

Thirty years ago I saw a quantity of Peruvian guano that contained more than 18 per cent of
nitrogen. It was remarkably light colored. You know that the white part of hen-droppings consists
principally of uric acid, which contains about 33 per cent of nitrogen.

For many years it was not difficult to find guano containing 13 per cent of nitrogen, and genuine
Peruvian guano was the cheapest and best source of available nitrogen. But latterly, not only
has the price been advanced, but the quality of the guano has deteriorated. It has contained
less nitrogen and more phosphoric acid. See the Chapter on “Value of Fertilizers,” Page 324.

SALTS OF AMMONIA AND NITRATE OF SODA.

“I wish,” said the Deacon, “you would tell us something about the ‘ammonia-salts’ and nitrate
of soda so long used in Lawes and Gilbert’s experiments. I have never seen any of them.”

“You could not invest a little money to better advantage than to send for a few bags of sulphate
of ammonia and nitrate of soda. You would then see what they are, and would learn more by using
them, than I can tell you in a month. You use them just as you would common salt. As a rule,
the better plan is to sow them broadcast, and it is important to distribute them evenly. In
sowing common salt, if you drop a handful in a place, it will kill the plants. And so it is
with nitrate of soda or sulphate of ammonia. Two or three pounds on a square rod will do good,
but if you put half of it on a square yard, it will burn up the crop, and the other half will
be applied in such a small quantity that you will see but little effect, and will conclude
that it is a humbug. Judging from over thirty years’ experience, I am safe in saying that not
one man in ten can be trusted to sow these manures. They should be sown with as much care as
you sow grass or clover-seed.”

“The best plan,” said the Doctor, “is to mix them with sifted coal-ashes, or with gypsum, or
sifted earth.”

“Perhaps so,” said I, “though there is nothing gained by mixing earth or ashes with them, except
in securing a more even distribution. And if I was going to sow them myself, I would much prefer
sowing them unmixed. Any man who can sow wheat or barley can sow sulphate of ammonia or nitrate
of soda.”

“Lawes and Gilbert,” said the Deacon, “used sulphate and muriate of ammonia, and in one or
two instances the carbonate of ammonia. Which is the best?”

“The one that will furnish ammonia or nitrogen at the cheapest rate,” said the Doctor, “is
the best to use. The muriate of ammonia contains the most ammonia, but the sulphate, in proportion
to the ammonia, is cheaper than the muriate, and far cheaper than the carbonate.”

Carbonate of ammonia contains 21½ per cent of ammonia.

Sulphate of ammonia contains 25¾ per cent of ammonia = 21⅕ of nitrogen.

Muriate of ammonia contains 31 per cent of ammonia = 25½ of nitrogen.

Nitrate of soda contains 16⅖ per cent of nitrogen.

Nitrate of potash, 13¾ per cent of nitrogen.

From these figures you can ascertain, when you know the price of each, which is the cheapest
source of nitrogen.

“True,” said I, “but it must be understood that these figures represent the composition of
a pure article. The commercial sulphate of ammonia, and nitrate of soda, would usually contain
10 per cent of impurities. According to the figures given by the Doctor, the mixture would
contain, if pure, over 28 per cent of ammonia. In other words, 90 lbs. of the pure article
contains as much as 100 lbs. of the commercial article.”

As to whether it is better, when you can buy nitrogen at the same price in nitrate of soda
as you can in sulphate of ammonia, to use the one or the other will depend on circumstances.
The nitrogen exists as nitric acid in the nitrate of soda, and as ammonia in the sulphate of
ammonia. But there are good reasons to believe that before ammonia is used by the plants it
is converted into nitric acid. If, therefore, we could apply the nitrate just where it is wanted
by the growing crop, and when there is rain enough to thoroughly distribute it through the
soil to the depth of six or eight inches, there can be little doubt that the nitrate, in proportion
to the nitrogen, would have a quicker and better effect than the sulphate of ammonia.

“There is another point to be considered,” said the Doctor. “Nitric acid is much more easily
washed out of the soil than ammonia. More or less of the ammonia enters into chemical combination
with portions of the soil, and may be retained for months or years.”

When we use nitrate of soda, we run the risk of losing more or less of it from leaching, while
if we use ammonia, we lose, for the time being, more or less of it from its becoming locked
up in insoluble combinations in the soil. For spring crops, such as barley or oats, or spring
wheat, or for a meadow or lawn, or for top-dressing winter-wheat in the spring, the nitrate
of soda, provided it is sown early enough, or at any time in the spring, just previous to a
heavy rain, is likely to produce a better effect than the sulphate of ammonia. But for sowing
in the autumn on winter-wheat the ammonia is to be preferred.

“Saltpetre, or nitrate of potash,” said the Deacon, “does not contain as much nitrogen as nitrate
of soda.”

“And yet,” said the Doctor, “if it could be purchased at the same price, it would be the cheaper
manure. It contains 46½ per cent of potash, and on soils, or for crops where potash is needed,
we may sometimes be able to purchase saltpetre to advantage.”

“If I could come across a lot of damaged saltpetre,” said I, “that could be got for what it
is worth as manure, I should like to try it on my apple trees--one row with nitrate of soda,
and one row with nitrate of potash. When we apply manure to apple trees, the ammonia, phosphoric
acid, and potash, are largely retained in the first few inches of surface soil, and the deeper
roots get hold of only those portions which leach through the upper layer of earth. Nitric
acid, however, is easily washed down into the subsoil, and would soon reach all the roots of
the trees.”

CHAPTER XXXVII.

BONE-DUST AND SUPERPHOSPHATE OF LIME.

Bone-dust is often spoken of as a phosphatic manure, and it has been supposed that the astonishing
effect bone-dust sometimes produces on old pasture-land, is due to its furnishing phosphoric
acid to the soil.

But it must be remembered that bone-dust furnishes nitrogen as well as phosphoric acid, and
we are not warranted in ascribing the good effect of bones to phosphoric acid alone.

Bones differ considerably in composition. They consist essentially of gelatine and phosphate
of lime. Bones from young animals, and the soft porous parts of all bones, contain more gelatine
than the solid parts, or the bones from older animals. On the average, 1,000 lbs. of good commercial
bone-dust contains 38 lbs. of nitrogen.

On the old dairy farms of Cheshire, where bone-dust produced such marked improvement in the
quantity and quality of the pastures and meadows, it was usual to apply from 4,000 to 5,000
lbs. per acre, and often more. In other words, a dressing of bone-dust frequently contained
200 lbs. of nitrogen per acre--equal to 20 or 25 tons of barn-yard manure.

“It has been supposed,” said the Doctor, “that owing to the removal of so much phosphoric acid
in the cheese sold from the farm, that the dairy pastures of Cheshire had been exhausted of
phosphoric acid, and that the wonderful benefits following an application of bone-dust to these
pastures, was due to its supplying phosphoric acid.”

“I do not doubt,” said I, “the value of phosphoric acid when applied in connection with nitrogen
to old pasture lands, but I contend that the experience of the Cheshire dairymen with bone-dust
is no positive proof that their soils were particularly deficient in phosphoric acid. There
are many instances given where the gelatine of the bones, alone, proved of great value to the
grass. And I think it will be found that the Cheshire dairymen do not find as much benefit
from superphosphate as they did from bone-dust. And the reason is, that the latter, in addition
to the phosphoric acid, furnished a liberal dressing of nitrogen. Furthermore, it is not true
that dairying specially robs the soil of phosphoric acid. Take one of these old dairy farms
in Cheshire, where a dressing of bone-dust, according to a writer in the Journal of the Royal
Agricultural Society, has caused ‘a miserable covering of pink grass, rushes, and a variety
of other noxious weeds, to give place to the most luxuriant herbage of wild clover, trefoil,
and other succulent and nutritious grasses.’ It is evident from this description of the pastures
before the bones were used, that it would take at least three acres to keep a cow for a year.”

“I have known,” says the same writer quoted above, “many a poor, honest, but half broken-hearted
man raised from poverty to comparative independence, and many a sinking family saved from inevitable
ruin by the help of this wonderful manure.” And this writer not only spoke from observation
and experience, but he showed his faith by his works, for he tells us that he had paid nearly
$50,000 for this manure.

Now, on one of these poor dairy farms, where it required 3 acres to keep a cow, and where the
grass was of poor quality, it is not probable that the cows produced over 250 lbs. of cheese
in a year. One thousand pounds of cheese contains, on the average, about 45½ lbs. of nitrogen;
2½ lbs. of potash, and 11½ lbs. of phosphoric acid. From this it follows, if 250 lbs. of cheese
are sold annually from three acres of pasture, less than one lb. of phosphoric acid per acre
is exported from the farm in the cheese.

One ton of timothy-hay contains nearly 14½ lbs. of phosphoric acid. And so a farmer who raises
a ton of timothy-hay per acre, and sells it, sends off as much phosphoric acid in one year
as such a Cheshire dairyman as I have alluded to did in fourteen years.

What the dairymen want, and what farmers generally want, is nitrogen and phosphoric acid. Bone-dust
furnishes both, and this was the reason of its wonderful effects.

It does not follow from this, that bone-dust is the cheapest and best manure we can use. It
is an old and popular manure, and usually commands a good price. It sells for all it is worth.
A dozen years ago, I bought ten tons of bone-dust at $18 per ton. I have offered $25 per ton
since for a similar lot, but the manufacturers find a market in New York for all they can make.

Bone-dust, besides nitrogen, contains about 23 per cent of phosphoric acid.

“That does not give me,” said the Deacon, “any idea of its value.”

“Let us put it in another shape, then,” said I. “One ton of good bone-dust contains about as
much nitrogen as 8½ tons of fresh stable-manure, and as much phosphoric acid as 110 tons of
fresh stable-manure. But one ton of manure contains more potash than 5 tons of bone-dust.”

Bone-dust, like barnyard-manure, does not immediately yield up its nitrogen and phosphoric
acid to plants. The bone phosphate of lime is insoluble in water, and but very slightly soluble
in water containing carbonic acid. The gelatine of the bones would soon decompose in a moist,
porous, warm soil, provided it was not protected by the oil and by the hard matter of the bones.
Steaming, by removing the oil, removes one of the hindrances to decomposition. Reducing the
bones as fine as possible is another means of increasing their availability.

Another good method of increasing the availability of bone-dust is to mix it with barnyard-manure,
and let both ferment together in a heap. I am inclined to think this the best, simplest, and
most economical method of rendering bone-dust available. The bone-dust causes the heap of manure
to ferment more readily, and the fermentation of the manure softens the bones. Both the manure
and the bones are improved and rendered richer and more available by the process.

Another method of increasing the availability of bone-dust is by mixing it with sulphuric acid.

The phosphate of lime in bones is insoluble in water, though rain water containing carbonic
acid, and the water in soils, slowly dissolve it. By treating the bones with sulphuric acid,
the phosphate of lime is decomposed and rendered soluble. Consequently, bone-dust treated with
sulphuric acid will act much more rapidly than ordinary bone-dust. The sulphuric acid does
not make it any richer in phosphoric acid or nitrogen. It simply renders them more available.

“And yet,” said the Doctor, “the use of sulphuric acid for ‘dissolving’ bones, or rather phosphate
of lime, introduced a new era in agriculture. It is the grand agricultural fact of the nineteenth
century.”

“It is perhaps not necessary,” said I, “to give any direction for treating bones with sulphuric
acid. We have got beyond that. We can now buy superphosphate cheaper than we can make it from
bones.”

“But is it as good?” asked the Deacon.

“Soluble phosphate of lime,” said I, “is soluble phosphate of lime, and it makes no difference
whether it is made from burnt bones, or from phosphatic guano, or mineral phosphate. That question
has been fully decided by the most satisfactory experiments.”

“Before you and the Deacon discuss that subject,” said the Doctor, “it would be well to tell
Charley what superphosphate is.”

“I wish you would tell me,” said Charley.

“Well,” said the Doctor, “phosphate of lime, as it exists in bones, is composed of three atoms
of lime and one atom of phosphoric acid. Chemists call it the tricalcic phosphate. It is also
called the basic phosphate of lime, and not unfrequently the ‘bone-earth phosphate.’ It is
the ordinary or common form of phosphate of lime, as it exists in animals, and plants, and
in the various forms of mineral phosphates.

“Then there is another phosphate of lime, called the dicalcic phosphate, or neutral phosphate
of lime, or reverted phosphate of lime. It is composed of one atom of water, two atoms of lime,
and one atom of phosphoric acid.

“Then we have what we call superphosphate, or acid phosphate of lime, or more properly monocalcic
phosphate. It is composed of two atoms of water, one atom of lime, and one atom of phosphoric
acid. This acid phosphate of lime is soluble in water.

“The manufacture of superphosphate of lime is based on these facts. The one-lime phosphate
is soluble, the three-lime phosphate is insoluble. To convert the latter into the former, all
we have to do is to take away two atoms of lime.

“Sulphuric acid has a stronger affinity for lime than phosphoric acid. And when you mix enough
sulphuric acid with finely ground three-lime phosphate, to take away two atoms of lime, you
get the phosphoric acid united with one atom of lime and two atoms of water.”

“And what,” asked the Deacon, “becomes of the two atoms of lime?”

“They unite with the sulphuric acid,” said the Doctor, “and form plaster, gypsum, or sulphate
of lime.”

“The molecular weight of water,” continued the Doctor, “is 18; of lime, 56; of sulphuric acid,
80; of phosphoric acid, 142.

“An average sample of commercial bone dust,” continued the Doctor, “contains about 50 per cent
of phosphate of lime. If we take 620 lbs. of finely-ground bone-dust, containing 310 lbs. of
three-lime phosphate, and mix with it 160 lbs. of sulphuric acid (say 240 lbs. common oil of
vitriol, sp. gr. 1.7), the sulphuric acid will unite with 112 lbs. of lime, and leave the 142
lbs. of phosphoric acid united with the remaining 56 lbs. of lime.”

“And that will give you,” said the Deacon, “780 lbs. of ‘dissolved bones,’ or superphosphate
of lime.”

“It will give you more than that,” said the Doctor, “because, as I said before, the two atoms
of lime (112 lbs.) are replaced by two atoms (36 lbs.) of water. And, furthermore, the two
atoms of sulphate of lime produced, contained two atoms (36 lbs.) of water. The mixture, therefore,
contains, even when perfectly dry, 72 lbs. of water.”

“Where does this water come from?” asked the Deacon.

“When I was at Rothamsted,” said I, “the superphosphate which Mr. Lawes used in his experiments
was made on the farm from animal charcoal, or burnt bones, ground as fine as possible--the
finer the better. We took 40 lbs. of the meal, and mixed it with 20 lbs. of water, and then
poured on 30 lbs. of common sulphuric acid (sp.g. 1.7), and stirred it up rapidly and thoroughly,
and then threw it out of the vessel into a heap, on the earth-floor in the barn. Then mixed
another portion, and so on, until we had the desired quantity, say two or three tons. The last
year I was at Rothamsted, we mixed 40 lbs. bone-meal, 30 lbs. water, and 30 lbs. acid; and
we thought the additional water enabled us to mix the acid and meal together easier and better.”

“Dr. Habirshaw tells me,” said the Doctor, “that in making the ‘Rectified Peruvian Guano’ no
water is necessary, and none is used. The water in the guano and in the acid is sufficient
to furnish the two atoms of water for the phosphate, and the two atoms for the sulphate of lime.”

“Such is undoubtedly the case,” said I, “and when large quantities of superphosphate are made,
and the mixing is done by machinery, it is not necessary to use water. The advantage of using
water is in the greater ease of mixing.”

“Bone-dust,” said the Doctor, “contains about 6 per cent of water, and the sulphuric acid (sp.g.
1.7) contains about one-third its weight of water. So that, if you take 620 lbs. of bone-dust,
and mix with it 240 lbs. of common sulphuric acid, you have in the mixture 117 lbs. of water,
which is 45 lbs. more than is needed to furnish the water of combination.”

“The superphosphate produced from 620 lbs. of bones, therefore,” continued the Doctor, “would
contain:

  Phosphoric acid}                           {142 lbs.
  Lime           } acid phosphate            { 56  ”
  Water          }                           { 36  ”

  Sulphuric acid }                           {160 lbs.
  Lime           } sulphate of lime          {112  ”
  Water          }                           { 36  ”

  Organic matter, ash, etc., of the bones*    335  ”
                                              --------
    Total dry superphosphate                877  ”
  Moisture, or loss                            45  ”
                                              --------
    Total mixture                             922 lbs.

  * Containing nitrogen, 23½ lbs.

“There is a small quantity of carbonate of lime in the bones,” said I, “which would take up
a little of the acid, and you will have a remarkably good article if you calculate that the
620 lbs. of bone-dust furnish you half a ton (1,000 lbs.) of superphosphate. It will be a better
article than it is practically possible to make.”

“Assuming that it made half a ton,” said the Doctor, “it would contain 14¼ per cent of soluble
phosphoric acid, and 2⅓ per cent of nitrogen.”

“With nitrogen at 20 cents per lb., and soluble phosphoric acid at 12½ c. per lb., this half
ton of superphosphate, made from 620 lbs. of good bone-dust, would be worth $22.50, or $45
per ton.”

“Or, to look at it in another light,” continued the Doctor, “a ton of bone-dust, made into
such a superphosphate as we are talking about, would be worth $72.58.”

“How much,” asked the Deacon, “would a ton of the bone-dust be considered worth before it was
converted into superphosphate?”

“A ton of bone-dust,” replied the Doctor, “contains 76 lbs. of nitrogen, worth, at 18 cents
per lb., $13.68, and 464 lbs. phosphoric acid, worth 7 cents per lb., $32.48. In other words,
a ton of bone-dust, at the usual estimate, is worth $46.16.”

“And,” said the Deacon, “after it is converted into superphosphate, the same ton of bones is
worth $72.58. It thus appears that you pay $26.42 per ton for simply making the phosphoric
acid in a ton of bones soluble. Isn’t it paying a little too much for the whistle?”

“Possibly such is the case,” said I, “and in point of fact, I think bone-dust, especially from
steamed or boiled bones, can be used with more economy in its natural state than in the form
of superphosphate.”

Superphosphate can be made more economically from mineral phosphates than from bones--the nitrogen,
if desired, being supplied from fish-scrap or from some other cheap source of nitrogen.

But for my own use I would prefer to buy a good article of superphosphate of lime, containing
no nitrogen, provided it can be obtained cheap enough. I would buy the ammoniacal, or nitrogenous
manure separately, and do my own mixing--unless the mixture could be bought at a less cost
than the same weight of soluble phosphoric acid, and available nitrogen could be obtained separately.

A pure superphosphate--and by pure I mean a superphosphate containing no nitrogen--can be drilled
in with the seed without injury, but I should be a little afraid of drilling in some of the
ammoniacal or nitrogenous superphosphates with small seeds.

And then, again, the “nitrogen” in a superphosphate mixture may be in the form of nitric acid,
or sulphate of ammonia, in one case, or, in another case, in the form of hair, woollen rags,
hide, or leather. It is far more valuable as nitric acid or ammonia, because it will act quicker,
and if I wanted hair, woollen rags, horn-shavings, etc., I would prefer to have them separate
from the superphosphate.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

SPECIAL MANURES.

Twenty five to thirty years ago, much was said in regard to special manures. Fertilizers were
prepared for the different crops with special reference to the composition of the plants.

“But it was known then, as now,” said the Doctor, “that all our agricultural plants were composed
of the same elements.”

“True, but what was claimed was this: Some crops contain, for instance, more phosphoric acid
than other crops, and for these a manure rich in phosphoric acid was provided. Others contained
a large proportion of potash, and these were called ‘potash crops,’ and the manure prescribed
for them was rich in potash. And so with the other ingredients of plants.”

“I recollect it well,” said the Doctor, “and, in truth, for several years I had much faith
in the idea. It was advocated with consummate ability by the lamented Liebig, and in fact a
patent was taken out by the Musgraves, of Liverpool, for the manufacture of Liebig’s Special
Manures, based on this theory. But the manures, though extensively used by the leading farmers
of England, and endorsed by the highest authorities, did not in the end stand the test of actual
farm practice, and their manufacture was abandoned. And I do not know of any experienced agricultural
chemist who now advocates this doctrine of special manures.

“Dr. Vœlcker says: ‘The ash-analyses of plants do not afford a sufficiently trustworthy guide
to the practical farmer in selecting the kind of manure which is best applied to each crop.’”

“Never mind the authorities,” said the Deacon; “what we want are facts.”

“Well,” replied the Doctor, “take the wheat and turnip crop as an illustration.

“We will suppose that there is twice the weight of wheat-straw as of grain; and that to 10
tons of bulbs there is 3 tons of turnip-tops. Now, 100 lbs. each of the ash of these two crops
contain:

                   Wheat crop.  Turnip crop.
  Phosphoric acid    11.44          7.33
  Potash             15.44         32.75
  Sulphuric acid      2.44         11.25
  Lime                5.09         19.28
  Magnesia            3.33          1.56

“There are other ingredients,” continued the Doctor, “but these are the most important.

“Now, if you were going to compound a manure for wheat, say 100 lbs., consisting of potash
and phosphoric acid, what would be the proportions?”

The Deacon figured for a few moments, and then produced the following table:

  100 Lbs. Special Manure for Wheat and Turnips.

                   Wheat manure.  Turnip manure.
  Phosphoric acid    42½ lbs.         18⅓ lbs.
  Potash             57½  ”           81⅔  ”
                    ------------     ------------
                    100  lbs.        100  lbs.

“Exactly,” said the Doctor, “and yet the experiments of Lawes and Gilbert clearly prove that
a soil needs to be richer in available phosphoric acid, to produce even a fair crop of turnips,
than to produce a large crop of wheat. And the experience of farmers everywhere tends in the
same direction. England is the greatest turnip-growing country in the world, and you will find
that where one farmer applies potash to turnips, or superphosphate to wheat, a hundred farmers
use superphosphate as a special manure for the turnip crop.”

“And we are certainly warranted in saying,” continued the Doctor, “that the composition of
a plant affords, in practical agriculture, and on ordinary cultivated soils, no sort of indication
as to the composition of the manure it is best to apply to the crop.”

“Again,” continued the Doctor, “if the theory was a correct one, it would follow that those
crops which contained the most nitrogen, would require the most nitrogen in the manure. Beans,
peas, and clover would require a soil or a manure richer in available nitrogen than wheat,
barley, or oats. We know that the very reverse is true--know it from actual, and repeated,
and long-continued experiments like those of Lawes and Gilbert, and from the common experience
of farmers everywhere.”

“You need not get excited,” said the Deacon, “the theory is a very plausible one, and while
I cannot dispute your facts, I must confess I cannot see why it is not reasonable to suppose
that a plant which contains a large amount of nitrogen should not want a manure specially rich
in nitrogen; or why turnips which contain so much potash should not want a soil or manure specially
rich in potash.”

“Do you recollect,” said I, “that crop of turnips I raised on a poor blowing-sand?”

“Yes,” said the Deacon, “it was the best crop of turnips I ever saw grow.”

“That crop of turnips,” said I, “was due to a dressing of superphosphate of lime, with little
or no potash in it.”

“I know all that,” said the Deacon. “I admit the fact that superphosphate is a good manure
for turnips. What I want to know is the reason why superphosphate is better for turnips than
for wheat?”

“Many reasons might be given,” said the Doctor; “Prof. Vœlcker attributes it to the limited
feeding range of the roots of turnips, as compared to wheat. ‘The roots of wheat,’ says Prof.
Vœlcker, ‘as is well known, penetrate the soil to a much greater depth than the more delicate
feeding fibres of the roots of turnips. Wheat, remaining on the ground two or three months
longer than turnips, can avail itself for a longer period of the resources of the soil; therefore
in most cases the phosphoric acid disseminated through the soil is amply sufficient to meet
the requirements of the wheat crop; whilst turnips, depending on a thinner depth of soil during
their shorter period of growth, cannot assimilate sufficient phosphoric acid, to come to perfection.’
This is, I believe, the main reason why the direct supply of readily available phosphates is
so beneficial to root-crops, and not to wheat.”

“This reason,” said I, “has never been entirely satisfactory to me. If the roots of the turnip
have such a limited range, how are they able to get such a large amount of potash?

“It is probable that the turnip, containing such a large relative amount of potash and so little
phosphoric acid, has roots capable of absorbing potash from a very weak solution, but not so
in regard to phosphoric acid.”

“There is another way of looking at this matter,” said the Doctor. “You must recollect that,
if turnips and wheat were growing in the same field, both plants get their food from the same
solution. And instead of supposing that the wheat-plant has the power of taking up more phosphoric
acid than the turnip-plant, we may suppose that the turnip has the power of rejecting or excluding
a portion of phosphoric acid. It takes up no more potash than the wheat-plant, but it takes
less phosphoric acid.”

But it is not necessary to speculate on this matter. For the present we may accept the fact,
that the proportion of potash, phosphoric acid, and nitrogen in the crop is no indication of
the proper proportion in which these ingredients should be applied to the soil for these crops
in manure.

It may well be that we should use special manures for special crops; but we must ascertain
what these manures should be, not from analyses of the crops to be grown, but from experiment
and experience.

So far as present facts throw light on this subject, we should conclude that those crops which
contain the least nitrogen are the most likely to be benefited by its artificial application;
and the crops containing the most phosphoric acid, are the crops to which, in ordinary practical
agriculture, it will be unprofitable to apply superphosphate of lime.

“That,” said the Doctor, “may be stating the case a little too strong.”

“Perhaps so,” said I, “but you must recollect I am now speaking of practical agriculture. If
I wanted to raise a good crop of cabbage, I should not think of consulting a chemical analysis
of the cabbage. If I set out cabbage on an acre of land, which, without manure, would produce
16 tons of cabbage, does any one mean to tell me that if I put the amount of nitrogen, phosphoric
acid and potash which 10 tons of cabbage contain, on an adjoining acre, that it would produce
an extra growth of 10 tons of cabbage. I can not believe it. The facts are all the other way.
Plant growth is not such a simple matter as the advocates of this theory, if there be any at
this late day, would have us believe.”

CHAPTER XXXIX.

VALUE OF FERTILIZERS.

In 1857, Prof. S. W. Johnson, in his Report to the Connecticut Agricultural Society, adopted
the following valuation:

  Potash                                4   cents per lb.
  Phosphoric acid, insoluble in water   4½    ”    ”   ”
      ”       ”    soluble   ”    ”    12½    ”    ”   ”
  Nitrogen                             17     ”    ”   ”

Analyses of many of the leading commercial fertilizers at that time showed that, when judged
by this standard, the price charged was far above their actual value. In some cases, manures
selling for $60 per ton, contained nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash worth only from $20
to $25 per ton. And one well-known manure, which sold for $28 per ton, was found to be worth
only $2.33 per ton. A Bone Fertilizer selling at $50 per ton, was worth less than $14 per ton.

“In 1852,” said the Doctor, “superphosphate of lime was manufactured by the New Jersey Zinc
Co., and sold in New York at $50 per ton of 2,000 lbs. At the same time, superphosphate of
lime made from Coprolites, was selling in England for $24 per ton of 2,240 lbs. The late Prof.
Mapes commenced making “Improved Superphosphate of Lime,” at Newark, N.J., in 1852, and Mr.
De Burg, the same year, made a plain superphosphate of lime in Brooklyn, N.Y. The price, in
proportion to value, was high, and, in fact, the same may be said of many of our superphosphate
manures, until within the last few years.”

Notwithstanding the comparatively high price, and the uncertain quality of these commercial
manures, the demand has been steadily on the increase. We have now many honorable and intelligent
men engaged in the manufacture and sale of these artificial manures, and owing to more definite
knowledge on the part of the manufacturers and of the purchasers, it is not a difficult matter
to find manures well worth the money asked for them.

“A correct analysis,” said I, “furnishes the only sure test of value. ‘Testimonials’ from farmers
and others are pre-eminently unreliable. With over thirty years’ experience in the use of these
fertilizers, I would place far more confidence on a good and reliable analysis than on any
actual trial I could make in the field. Testimonials to a patent fertilizer are about as reliable
as testimonials to a patent-medicine. In buying a manure, we want to know what it contains,
and the condition of the constituents.”

In 1877, Prof. S. W. Johnson gives the following figures, showing “the
trade-values, or cost in market, per pound, of the ordinary occurring
forms of nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, as recently found in the
New York and New England markets:
                                                        Cents
                                                        per pound.
  Nitrogen in ammonia and nitrates                          24
     ”     in Peruvian Guano, fine steamed bone, dried
             and fine ground blood, meat, and fish          20
     ”     in fine ground bone, horn, and wool-dust         18
     ”     in coarse bone, horn-shavings, and fish-scrap    15
  Phosphoric acid soluble in water                          12½
     ”        ”   “reverted,” and in Peruvian Guano          9
     ”        ”   insoluble, in fine bone and fish guano     7
     ”        ”      ”    in coarse bone, bone-ash,
                            and bone-black                   5
     ”        ”      ”    in fine ground rock phosphate      3½
  Potash in high-grade sulphate                              9
    ”    in kainit, as sulphate                              7½
    ”    in muriate, or potassium chloride                   6

“These ‘estimated values,’” says Prof. Johnson, “are not fixed, but vary with the state of
the market, and are from time to time subject to revision. They are not exact to the cent or
its fractions, because the same article sells cheaper at commercial or manufacturing centers
than in country towns, cheaper in large lots than in small, cheaper for cash than on time.
These values are high enough to do no injustice to the dealer, and accurate enough to serve
the object of the consumer.

“By multiplying the per cent of Nitrogen, etc., by the trade-value per pound, and then by 20,
we get the value per ton of the several ingredients, and adding the latter together, we obtain
the total estimated value per ton.

“The uses of the ‘Valuation’ are, 1st, to show whether a given lot or brand of fertilizer is
worth as a commodity of trade what it costs. If the selling price is no higher than the estimated
value, the purchaser may he quite sure that the price is reasonable. If the selling price is
but $2 to $3 per ton more than the estimated value, it may still be a fair price, but if the
cost per ton is $5 or more over the estimated value, it would be well to look further. 2d,
Comparisons of the estimated values, and selling prices of a number of fertilizers will generally
indicate fairly which is the best for the money. But the ‘estimated value’ is not to be too
literally construed, for analysis cannot always decide accurately what is the form of nitrogen,
etc., while the mechanical condition of a fertilizer is an item whose influence cannot always
be rightly expressed or appreciated.

“The Agricultural value of a fertilizer is measured by the benefit received from its use, and
depends upon its fertilizing effect, or crop-producing power. As a broad general rule it is
true that Peruvian guano, superphosphates, fish-scraps, dried blood, potash salts, plaster,
etc., have a high agricultural value which is related to their trade-value, and to a degree
determines the latter value. But the rule has many exceptions, and in particular instances
the trade-value cannot always be expected to fix or even to indicate the agricultural value.
Fertilizing effect depends largely upon soil, crop, and weather, and as these vary from place
to place, and from year to year, it cannot be foretold or estimated except by the results of
past experience, and then only in a general and probable manner.”

“It will be seen,” said the Doctor, “that Prof. Johnson places a higher value on potash now
than he did 20 years ago. He retains the same figures for soluble phosphoric acid, and makes
a very just and proper discrimination between the different values of different forms of nitrogen
and phosphoric acid.”

“The prices,” said I, “are full as high as farmers can afford to pay. But there is not much
probability that we shall see them permanently reduced. The tendency is in the other direction.
In a public address Mr. J. B. Lawes has recently remarked: ‘A future generation of British
farmers will doubtless hear with some surprise that, at the close of the manure season of 1876,
there were 40,000 tons of nitrate of soda in our docks, which could not find purchasers, although
the price did not exceed £12 or £13 per ton.’”

“He evidently thinks,” said the Doctor, “that available nitrogen is cheaper now than it will
be in years to come.”

“Nitrate of soda,” said I, “at the prices named, is only 2½ to 2¾ cents per lb., and the nitrogen
it contains would cost less than 18 cents per lb., instead of 24 cents, as given by Prof. Johnson.”

“No. 1 Peruvian Guano, ‘guaranteed,’ is now sold,” said the Doctor, “at
a price per ton, to be determined by its composition, at the following
rates:
                                   Value per pound.
  Nitrogen (ammonia, 17½ c.)             21¾ c.
  Soluble phosphoric acid                10  c.
  Reverted    ”       ”                   8  c.
  Insoluble   ”       ”                   2  c.
  Potash, as sulphate and phosphate       7½ c.

“The first cargo of Peruvian guano, sold under this guarantee, contained:

                                            Value per ton.
  Ammonia                    6.8 per cent         $23.80
  Soluble phosphoric acid    3.8  ”  ”              7.60
  Reverted    ”       ”     11.5  ”  ”             18.40
  Insoluble   ”       ”      3.0  ”  ”              1.20
  Potash                     3.7  ”  ”              5.55
                                                  ------
  Estimated retail price per ton of 2,000 lbs.    $56.55
  Marked on bags for sale                         $56.00

The second cargo, sold under this guarantee, contained:

                                           Value per ton.
  Ammonia                   11.5 per cent        $40.50
  Soluble phosphoric acid    5.4  ”   ”           10.80
  Reverted    ”       ”     10.0  ”   ”           16.00
  Insoluble   ”       ”      1.7  ”   ”             .68
  Potash                     2.3  ”   ”            3.45
                                                 ------
                                                 $71.43
  Selling price marked on bags                   $70.00

“It is interesting,” said I, “to compare these analyses of Peruvian guano of to-day, with Peruvian
guano brought to England twenty-nine or thirty years ago. I saw at Rothamsted thirty years
ago a bag of guano that contained 22 per cent of ammonia. And farmers could then buy guano
guaranteed by the dealers (not by the agents of the Peruvian Government), to contain 16 per
cent of ammonia, and 10 per cent of phosphoric acid. Price, £9 5s. per ton of 2,240 lbs.--say
$40 per ton of 2,000 lbs.

The average composition of thirty-two cargoes of guano imported into England in 1849 was as
follows:

  Ammonia            17.41 per cent.
  Phosphoric acid     9.75  ”   ”
  Alkaline salts      8.75  ”   ”

At the present valuation, adopted by the Agents of the Peruvian guano in New York, and estimating
that 5 per cent of the phosphoric acid was soluble, and 4 per cent reverted, and that there
was 2 lbs. of potash in the alkaline salts, this guano would be worth:

                                   Value per ton of 2,000 lbs.
  Ammonia                     17.41  per cent      $60.93
  Soluble phosphoric acid      5.00   ”    ”        10.00
  Reverted     ”      ”        4.00   ”    ”         6.40
  Insoluble    ”      ”         .75   ”    ”          .30
  Potash                       2.00   ”    ”         3.00
                                                  -------
                                                   $80.63
  Selling price per ton of 2,000 lbs.              $40.00

Ichaboe guano, which was largely imported into England in 1844-5, and used extensively as a
manure for turnips, contained, on the average, 7½ per cent of ammonia, and 14 per cent of phosphoric
acid. Its value at the present rates we may estimate as follows:

  Ammonia, 7½ per cent                     $26.25
  Soluble Phosphoric acid,  4 per cent       8.00
  Reverted     ”      ”    10    ”          16.00
                                           ------
                                           $50.25
  Selling price per ton of 2,000 lbs.      $21.80

The potash is not given, or this would probably add four or five dollars to its estimated value.

“All of which goes to show,” said the Deacon, “that the Peruvian Government is asking, in proportion
to value, from two to two and a half times as much for guano as was charged twenty-five or
thirty years ago. That first cargo of guano, sold in New York under the new guarantee, in 1877,
for $56 per ton, is worth no more than the Ichaboe guano sold in England in 1845, for less
than $22 per ton!

“And furthermore,” continued the Deacon, “from all that I can learn, the guano of the present
day is not only far poorer in nitrogen than it was formerly, but the nitrogen is not as soluble,
and consequently not so valuable, pound for pound. Much of the guano of the present day bears
about the same relation to genuine old-fashioned guano, as leached ashes do to unleached, or
as a ton of manure that has been leached in the barn-yard does to a ton that has been kept
under cover.”

“True, to a certain extent,” said the Doctor, “but you must recollect that this ‘guaranteed’
guano is now sold by analysis. You pay for what you get and no more.”

“Exactly,” said the Deacon, “but what you get is not so good. A pound of nitrogen in the leached
guano is not as available or as valuable as a pound of nitrogen in the unleached guano. And
this fact ought to be understood.”

“One thing,” said I, “seems clear. The Peruvian Government is charging a considerably higher
price for guano, in proportion to its actual value, than was charged 20 or 25 years ago. It
may be, that the guano is still the cheapest manure in the market, but at any rate the price
is higher than formerly--while there has been no corresponding advance in the price of produce
in the markets of the world.”

POTASH AS A MANURE.

On land where fish, fish-scrap, or guano, has been used freely for some years, and the crops
exported from the farm, we may expect a relative deficiency of potash in the soil. In such
a case, an application of unleached ashes or potash-salts will be likely to produce a decided
benefit.

Clay or loamy land is usually richer in potash than soils of a more sandy or gravelly character.
And on poor sandy land, the use of fish or of guano, if the crops are all sold, will be soon
likely to prove of little benefit owing to a deficiency of potash in the soil. They may produce
good crops for a few years, but the larger the crops produced and sold, the more would the
soil become deficient in potash.

We have given the particulars of Lawes and Gilbert’s experiments on barley. Mr. Lawes at a
late meeting in London, stated that “he had grown 25 crops of barley one after the other with
nitrogen, either as ammonia or nitrate of soda, but without potash, and that by the use of
potash they had produced practically no better result. This year (1877), for the first time,
the potash had failed a little, and they had now produced 10 or 12 bushels more per acre with
potash than without, showing that they were coming to the end of the available potash in the
soil. This year (1877), they obtained 54 bushels of barley with potash, and 42 bushels without
it. Of course, this was to be expected, and they had expected it much sooner. The same with
wheat; he expected the end would come in a few years, but they had now gone on between 30 and
40 years. When the end came they would not be sorry, because then they would have the knowledge
they were seeking for.”

Dr. Vœlcker, at the same meeting remarked: “Many soils contained from 1½ to 2 per cent of available
potash, and a still larger quantity locked up, in the shape of minerals, which only gradually
came into play; but the quantity of potash carried off in crops did not exceed 2 cwt. per acre,
if so much. Now 0.1 per cent of any constituent, calculated on a depth of six inches, was equivalent
to one ton per acre. Therefore, if a soil contained only 0.1 per cent of potash, a ton of potash
might be carried off from a depth of 6 inches. But you had not only 0.1 per cent, but something
like 1½ per cent and upwards in many soils. It is quite true there were many soils from which
you could not continuously take crops without restoring the potash.”

“In all of which,” said the Doctor, “there is nothing new. It does not help us to determine
whether potash is or is not deficient in our soil.”

“That,” said I, “can be ascertained only by actual experiment. Put a little hen-manure on a
row of corn, and on another row a little hen-manure and ashes, and on another row, ashes alone,
and leave one row without anything. On my farm I am satisfied that we need not buy potash-salts
for manure. I do not say they would do no good, for they may do good on land not deficient
in available potash, just as lime will do good on land containing large quantities of lime.
But potash is not what my land needs to make it produce maximum crops. It needs available nitrogen,
and possibly soluble phosphoric acid.”

The system of farming adopted in this section, is much more likely to impoverish the soil of
nitrogen and phosphoric acid than of potash.

If a soil is deficient in potash, the crop which will first indicate the deficiency, will probably
be clover, or beans. Farmers who can grow large crops of red-clover, need not buy potash for
manure.

On farms where grain is largely raised and sold, and where the straw, and corn-stalks, and
hay, and the hay from clover-seed are retained on the farm, and this strawy manure returned
to the land, the soil will become poor from the lack of nitrogen and phosphoric acid long before
there would be any need of an artificial supply of potash.

On the other hand, if farmers should use fish, or guano, or superphosphate, or nitrate of soda,
and sell all the hay, and straw, and potatoes, and root-crops, they could raise, many of our
sandy soils would soon become poor in available potash. But even in this case the clover and
beans would show the deficiency sooner than wheat or even potatoes.

“And yet we are told,” said the Deacon, “that potatoes contain no end of potash.”

“And the same is true,” said I, “of root-crops, such as mangel-wurzel, turnips, etc., but the
fact has no other significance than this: If you grow potatoes for many years on the same land
and manure them with nitrogenous manures, the soil is likely to be speedily impoverished of
potash.”

“But suppose,” said the Deacon, “that you grow potatoes on the same land without manure of
any kind, would not the soil become equally poor in potash?”

“No,” said I, “because you would, in such a case, get very small crops--small, not from lack
of potash, but from lack of nitrogen. If I had land which had grown corn, potatoes, wheat,
oats, and hay, for many years without manure, or an occasional dressing of our common barnyard-manure,
and wanted it to produce a good crop of potatoes, I should not expect to get it by simply applying
potash. The soil might be poor in potash, but it is almost certain to be still poorer in nitrogen
and phosphoric acid.”

Land that has been manured with farm-yard or stable-manure for years, no matter how it has
been cropped, is not likely to need potash. The manure is richer in potash than in nitrogen
and phosphoric acid. And the same may be said of the soil.

If a farmer uses nitrogenous and phosphatic manures on his clayey or loamy land that is usually
relatively rich in potash, and will apply his common manure to the sandy parts of the farm,
he will rarely need to purchase manures containing potash.

CHAPTER XL.

RESTORING FERTILITY TO THE SOIL.

By Sir J. B. Lawes, Bart., LL.D., F.R.S., Rothamsted, Eng.

A relation of mine, who already possessed a very considerable estate, consisting of light land,
about twenty years ago purchased a large property adjoining it at a very high price. These
were days when farmers were flourishing, and they no more anticipated what was in store for
them in the future, than the inhabitants of the earth in the days of Noah.

Times have changed since then, and bad seasons, low prices of wheat, and cattle-disease, have
swept off the tenants from these two estates, so that my relation finds himself now in the
position of being the unhappy owner and occupier of five or six farms, extending over several
thousand acres--one farm alone occupying an area of two thousand four hundred acres. Fortunately
for the owner, he possesses town property in addition to his landed estates, so that the question
with him is not, as it is with many land owners, how to find the necessary capital to cultivate
the land, but, having found the capital, how to expend it in farming, so as to produce a proper
return.

It is not very surprising that, under these circumstances, my opinion should have been asked.
What, indeed, would have been the use of a relation, who not only spent all his time in agricultural
experiments, but also pretended to teach our neighbors how to farm on the other side of the
Atlantic, if he could not bring his science to bear on the land of an adjoining county! Here
is the land--my relation might naturally say--here is the money, and I have so much confidence
in your capacity that I will give you carte-blanche to spend as much as you please--what am
I to do?

An inspection of the property brought out the following facts--that all the land was very light,
and that you might walk over the fresh plowed surface in the wettest weather without any clay
sticking to your boots: still a portion of the soil was dark in color, and therefore probably
contained a sufficient amount of fertility to make cultivation profitable, provided the management
could be conducted with that care and economy which are absolute essentials in a business where
the expenditure is always pressing closely upon the income.

Upon land of this description meat-making is the backbone of the system, which must be adopted,
and a large breeding flock of sheep the first essential towards success.

Science can make very little improvement upon the four-course rotation--roots, barley, clover,
and wheat, unless, perhaps, it may be by keeping the land in clover, or mixed grass and clover,
for two or three years.

A good deal of the land I was inspecting was so light, that, in fact, it was hardly more than
sand, and for some years it had been left to grow anything that came up, undisturbed by the plow.

To a practised eye, the character of the natural vegetation is a sure indication of the fertility
of the soil. Where herds of buffaloes are to be seen--their sides shaking with fat--it is quite
evident that the pastures upon which they feed cannot be very bad; and in the same way, where
a rank growth of weeds is found springing up upon land that has been abandoned, it may be taken
for certain that the elements of food exist in the soil. This ground was covered with vegetation,
but of the most impoverished description, even the “Quack” or “Couch-grass” could not form
a regular carpet, but grew in small, detached bunches; everything, in fact, bore evidence of
poverty.

Possibly, the first idea which might occur to any one, on seeing land in this state, might
be: Why not grow the crops by the aid of artificial manures?

Let us look at the question from two points of view: first, in regard to the cost of the ingredients;
and, secondly, in regard to the growth of the crop.

We will begin with wheat. A crop of wheat, machine-reaped, contains, as carted to the stack,
about six pounds of soil ingredients in every one hundred pounds; that is to say, each five
pounds of mineral matter, and rather less than one pound of nitrogen, which the plant takes
from the soil, will enable it to obtain ninety-four pounds of other substances from the atmosphere.
To grow a crop of twenty bushels of grain and two thousand pounds of straw, would require one
hundred and sixty pounds of minerals, and about thirty-two pounds of nitrogen; of the one hundred
and sixty pounds of minerals, one-half would be silica, of which the soil possesses already
more than enough; the remainder, consisting of about eighty pounds of potash and phosphate,
could be furnished for from three to four dollars, and the thirty-two pounds of nitrogen could
be purchased in nitrate of soda for six or eight dollars. The actual cost of the ingredients,
therefore, in the crop of twenty bushels of wheat, would be about ten to twelve dollars. But
as this manure would furnish the ingredients for the growth of both straw and grain, and it
is customary to return the straw to the land, after the first crop, fully one-third of the
cost of the manure might, in consequence, be deducted, which would make the ingredients of
the twenty bushels amount to six dollars. Twenty bushels of wheat in England would sell for
twenty-eight dollars; therefore, there would be twenty-two dollars left for the cost of cultivation
and profit.

A French writer on scientific agriculture has employed figures very similar to the above, to
show how French farmers may grow wheat at less than one dollar per bushel. At this price they
might certainly defy the competition of the United States. It is one thing, however, to grow
crops in a lecture room, and quite another to grow them in a field. In dealing with artificial
manures, furnishing phosphoric acid, potash, and nitrogen, we have substances which act upon
the soil in very different ways. Phosphate of lime is a very insoluble substance, and requires
an enormous amount of water to dissolve it. Salts of potash, on the other hand, are very soluble
in water, but form very insoluble compounds with the soil. Salts of ammonia and nitrate of
soda are perfectly soluble in water. When applied to the land, the ammonia of the former substance
forms an insoluble compound with the soil, but in a very short time is converted into nitrate
of lime; and with this salt and nitrate of soda, remains in solution in the soil water until
they are either taken up by the plant or are washed away into the drains or rivers.

Crops evaporate a very large amount of water, and with this water they attract the soluble
nitrate from all parts of the soil. Very favorable seasons are therefore those in which the
soil is neither too dry nor too wet; as in one case the solution of nitrate becomes dried up
in the soil, in the other it is either washed away, or the soil remains so wet that the plant
cannot evaporate the water sufficiently to draw up the nitrates which it contains.

The amount of potash and phosphoric acid dissolved in the water is far too small to supply
the requirements of the plant, and it is probable that what is required for this purpose is
dissolved by some direct action of the roots of the plant on coming in contact with the insoluble
phosphoric acid and potash in the soil.

In support of this view, I may mention that we have clear evidence in some of our experiments
of the wheat crop taking up both phosphates and potash that were applied to the land thirty
years ago.

To suppose, therefore, that, if the ingredients which exist in twenty bushels of wheat and
its straw, are simply applied to a barren soil, the crop will be able to come in contact with,
and take up these substances, is to assume what certainly will not take place.

I have often expressed an opinion that arable land, could not be cultivated profitably by means
of artificial manures, unless the soil was capable of producing, from its own resources, a
considerable amount of produce; still the question had never up to this time come before me
in a distinct form as one upon which I had to decide one way or the other. I had, however,
no hesitation in coming to the conclusion, that grain crops could never be grown at a profit
upon my relation’s land, and that consequently, for some years, it would be better to give
up the attempt, and try to improve the pasture.

After what I have said about the insolubility of potash and phosphoric acid, it may possibly
be asked--why not give a good dose of these substances at once, as they do not wash out of
the soil--say enough to grow sixty crops of grain, and apply the nitrate, or ammonia every
year in just sufficient amounts to supply the wants of the crop?

The objections to this plan are as follows: assuming the most favorable conditions of climate,
and the largest possible produce, the wheat could certainly not take up the whole of the thirty-two
pounds of nitrogen applied, and the crop which requires nearly one pound of nitrogen in every
one hundred pounds of gross produce, would be certainly less than three thousand two hundred
pounds, if supplied with only thirty-two pounds of nitrogen. If we take the total produce of
the best and worst wheat crop, grown during the forty years of our experiments, we shall arrive
at a better understanding in the matter. The following are the figures:

  Weight of Dry Produce of Wheat Per Acre.

         Straw and Grain.
  1863         9330 lbs.
  1879         3859  ”

In order to ascertain the increase due to the nitrogen of the salts of ammonia or nitrate of
soda, we must deduct from the crop the produce obtained, where mineral manures without nitrogen
were used. In 1863 this amount was three thousand pounds, and in 1879 it was one thousand two
hundred pounds. Deducting these amounts from the gross produce in each case, leaves six thousand
three hundred and thirty as the produce due to the nitrogen in the season of 1863, and two
thousand six hundred and fifty-nine as the produce due to the nitrogen in 1879.

But in each case we applied the same amount of nitrogen, eighty-seven pounds; and as the amount
of nitrogen in a wheat crop, as carted from the field, contains less than one per cent. of
nitrogen, it is evident that if all that was contained in the manure had been taken up by the
plant, the increased crop should have weighed eight thousand seven hundred pounds instead of
six thousand three hundred and thirty. Thus even in our best year, some of the nitrogen applied
failed to produce growth; and when we come to the bad year we find that only twenty-six and
a half pounds were taken up out of the eighty-seven pounds applied, thus leaving more than
two-thirds of the whole unaccounted for.

Seasons are only occasionally either very bad or very good. What we call an average season
does not differ very much from the mean of the best and worst years, which in this case would
be represented by a crop of four thousand four hundred and ninety-four pounds, containing nearly
forty-five pounds of nitrogen. I may say that, although I have employed one per cent. to avoid
fractions in my calculations, strictly speaking three-quarters of a per cent. would more nearly
represent the real quantity. If, however, on the average, we only obtain about forty-five pounds
from an application of about eighty-seven pounds of nitrogen, it is evident that not more than
one-half of the amount applied enters into the crop.

Now in dealing with a substance of so costly a nature as ammonia, or nitrate of soda--the nitrogen
contained in which substances cannot cost much less than twenty-five cents per pound by the
time it is spread upon the land, it becomes a question of importance to know what becomes of
the other half, or the residue whatever it may be, which has not been taken up by the crop.
Part is undoubtedly taken up by the weeds which grow with the wheat, and after the wheat has
been cut. Part sinks into the sub-soil and is washed completely away during the winter.

I, myself, am disposed to think that the very great difference in the size of the Indian corn
crops, as compared with the wheat crops in the States, is partly accounted for by their greater
freedom from weeds, which are large consumers of nitric acid, and, in the case of the wheat
crop, frequently reduce the yield by several bushels per acre. It must, however, be borne in
mind that, though the wheat is robbed of its food where there are weeds, still if there were
no weeds, the amount of nitric acid which the crop could not get hold of, would, in all probability,
be washed out of the soil during the ensuing winter. I come to the conclusion, therefore, that
the nitrogen alone, which would be required to produce one bushel of wheat, would cost not
much less than fifty cents; and that, in consequence, wheat-growing by means of artificial
manures, will not pay upon very poor land.

I have said that the land, about which I was consulted, had not been plowed for several years,
and that although nature had done all she could to clothe the soil with vegetation, the most
disheartening feature in the case was, the poverty of the weeds. A thistle may be a giant or
a dwarf, according to circumstances; here they were all dwarfs. The plaintain, which I believe
is sometimes sown in these districts for food, has a very deep root; here the plants were abundant,
but the leaves were very small and lay so close to the ground, that, as the manager informed
me, “the sheep were often injured from the amount of sand which they swallowed with the leaves
when feeding.”

At Rothamsted, the analyses of the rain water passing through the ordinary soil of one of my
fields, which has been kept free from vegetation, have shown that the amount of nitric acid
liberated in a soil, and washed out each year, is very large. Taking the ten years during which
these special experiments have been in progress, I should think that the loss of nitrogen would
be equal to, or possibly exceed, the amount of that substance removed by the average crops
grown in the United States.

The results obtained by the rain gauges, are further completely confirmed by those in an adjoining
field, where wheat and fallow have been grown alternately for twenty-seven years. The liberation
of nitric acid, during the year of rest, produced for a time a large growth of wheat, but it
was done at a very great waste of the fertility of the soil, and the produce is now, in proportion,
considerably lower than that grown on the continuously unmanured land.

These results, if they are to be accepted as correct, must bring about a very considerable
change in the generally received views in regard to fertility. We not only see more clearly
the connection between a former vegetation and the stored up fertility in our soil, but we
also see the importance of vegetation at the present day, as the only means by which the loss
of nitric acid is prevented. The more completely the land is covered with vegetation, and the
more growth there is, the greater will be the evaporation of water, and the less will be the
loss of nitric acid by drainage.

I was not at all surprised to find, that the surface soil of a wood on my farm, was poorer
in nitrogen than the soil of an old permanent pasture, to which no manure had been applied
for twenty-five years, though during the whole period, the crop of hay had been removed every
year from the land. The wood to which I refer is covered with oak, centuries old, and the foliage
is so dense that but little underwood or other vegetation can grow beneath it. If both the
wood and the pasture were put into arable cultivation, I have no doubt that the pasture would
prove much more fertile than the wood land.

In our experiments on permanent pasture, it has been observed that the character of the herbage
is mainly dependent on the food supplied. Weeds, and inferior grasses, can hold their own as
long as poverty exists, but with a liberal supply of manure, the superior grasses overgrow
and drive out the bad grasses and weeds. In consequence of the low price of wheat a good deal
of land in England has been laid down to permanent pasture, and much money has been spent in
cleaning the land preparatory to sowing the grass-seeds. I have on more occasions than one,
suggested that the money employed in this process would be better expended in manure, by which
the weeds would be “improved” off the face of the land. While walking over the abandoned portion
of these estates I explained my views upon this point to the manager. They were, however, received
with the usual skepticism, and the rejoinder that “there was only one way of getting rid of
the weeds, which was by the plow and fire.”

There is nothing that speaks to me so forcibly as color in vegetation; when travelling by rail,
I do not require to be told that such a farm is, or is not, in high condition, or that we are
passing through a fertile or infertile district. There is a peculiar green color in vegetation
which is an unmistakable sign that it is living upon the fat of the land. I need hardly say
that, in this case, the color of the vegetation gave unmistakable signs of the poverty of the
soil; but in the midst of the dingy yellowish-green of the herbage, I came upon one square
of bright green grass. In answer to my enquiry I was told that, a “lambing-fold had been there
last year,” and my informant added his opinion, “that the manure would be so strong that it
would kill anything!” It had certainly killed the weeds, but in their place, some good grasses
had taken possession of the soil.

The plan I proposed to adopt was, to spend no more money on tillage operations, but to endeavor
to improve the pasture by giving to it the food necessary to grow good grasses, sowing at the
same time a small quantity of the best seeds. I further suggested that a flock of sheep should
be allowed to run over the whole of the land by day, and be folded there every night--about
one pound of cotton-seed cake per head being allowed daily. By this means, as the fold would
be moved every day, the amount of manure deposited on the soil could be estimated.

If there were a hundred sheep, receiving one pound of decorticated cotton-seed cake per head,
daily, and the hurdles were arranged to enclose a space of twenty-five by twenty yards, in
the course of ten days an acre of land would have received manure from one thousand pounds
of cake; which amount would supply seventy-seven pounds of nitrogen, sixty-eight pounds of
phosphate of lime, and thirty-two pounds of potash. This amount of cake would cost about sixteen
dollars.

As regards the value of the cake as a food, it is somewhat difficult to form an estimate; but
it takes nine or ten pounds of dry food--say roots, cake, and hay--to produce an increase of
one pound of live weight in sheep. The cake has certainly a higher feeding value, than either
hay or roots, but I will here give it only the same value, and consider that one hundred and
ten pounds of increase of the animal was obtained by the consumption of the one thousand pounds
of cake. The value of the increase of the live weight would be in England fully eleven dollars,
leaving five dollars as the cost of the manure. Now the cake furnished seventy-seven pounds
of nitrogen alone, which, if purchased in an artificial manure, would have cost nineteen dollars;
and the other substances supplied by the cake, would have cost from four to five dollars more.
The manures required, therefore, would be obtained much more cheaply by this than by any other
process.

Labor would be saved by not cultivating the land. Manure would be saved by substituting vegetation
which grows under or above ground, almost all the year round. And, by feeding the stock with
cake, the necessary fertility would be obtained at the lowest possible cost.

It is probable that the land would require this treatment to be repeated for several years,
before there would be a fair growth of grass. The land might then be broken up and one grain
crop be taken, then it might again be laid down to grass.

Hitherto, I have considered a case where fertility is almost absent from the land, this, however,
is an exception, as agriculture generally is carried on upon soils which contain large stores
of fertility, though they may be very unequally distributed. By analysis of the soil we can
measure the total amount of fertility which it contains, but we are left in ignorance in regard
to the amount of the ingredients which are in such a form that the crops we cultivate can make
use of them.

At Rothamsted, among my experiments on the growth of continuous wheat, at the end of forty
years, the soil supplied with salts of ammonia has yielded, during the whole time, and still
continues to yield, a larger produce than is obtained by a liberal supply of phosphates and
alkaline salts without ammonia.

When we consider that every one hundred pounds of wheat crop, as carted to the stack, contains
about five per cent. of mineral matter, and one per cent. of nitrogen, it is impossible to
avoid the conclusion that my soil has a large available balance of mineral substances which
the crop could not make use of for want of nitrogen. The crop which has received these mineral
manures now amounts to from twelve to thirteen bushels per acre, and removes from the land
about sixteen pounds of nitrogen every year.

Analyses of the soil show that, even after the removal of more than thirty crops in succession,
without any application of manure containing ammonia, the soil still contains some thousands
of pounds of nitrogen. This nitrogen is in combination with carbon; it is very insoluble in
water, and until it becomes separated from the carbon, and enters into combination with oxygen,
does not appear to be of any use to the crop.

The combination of nitrogen with oxygen, is known as nitric acid. The nitric acid enters into
combination with the lime of the soil, and in this form becomes the food of plants.

From its great importance in regard to the growth of plants, nitric acid might be called the
main spring of agriculture, but being perfectly soluble in water, it is constantly liable to
be washed out of the soil. In the experiment to which I have referred above--where wheat is
grown by mineral manures alone--we estimate that, of the amount of nitric acid liberated each
year, not much more than one-half is taken up by the crop.

The wheat is ripe in July, at which time the land is tolerably free from weeds; several months,
therefore, occur during which there is no vegetation to take up the nitric acid; and even when
the wheat is sown at the end of October, much nitric acid is liable to be washed away, as the
power of the plant to take up food from the soil is very limited until the spring.

The formation of nitric acid, from the organic nitrogen in the soil, is due to the action of
a minute plant, and goes on quite independent of the growth of our crops. We get, however,
in the fact an explanation of the extremely different results obtained by the use of different
manures. One farmer applies lime, or even ground limestone to a soil, and obtains an increase
in his crops; probably he has supplied the very substance which has enabled the nitrification
of the organic nitrogen to increase; another applies potash, a third phosphates; if either
of these are absent, the crops cannot make use of the nitric acid, however great may be the
amount diffused through the soil.

It may possibly be said that the use of mineral manures tends to exhaust the soil of its nitrogen;
this may, or may not, be true; but even if the minerals enable the crop to take up a larger
amount of the nitric acid found in the soil year by year, this does not increase the exhaustion,
as the minerals only tend to arrest that which otherwise might be washed away.

We must look upon the organic nitrogen in the soil, as the main source of the nitrogen which
grows our crops. Whatever may be the amount derived from the atmosphere, whether in rain, or
dew; or from condensation by the soil, or plants, it is probable that, where the land is in
arable cultivation, the nitrogen so obtained, is less than the amount washed out of the soil
in nitric acid. Upon land which is never stirred by the plow, there is much less waste and
much less activity.

The large increase in the area of land laid down to permanent pasture in England, is not due
alone to the fall in the price of grain. The reduction of fertility in many of the soils, which
have been long under the plow, is beginning to be apparent. Under these circumstances a less
exhausting course of treatment becomes necessary, and pasture, with the production of meat,
milk, and butter, takes the place of grain fields.

APPENDIX.

Letter from Edward Jessop, York, Pa.

    YORK, PA., March 16, 1876.

Joseph Harris, Esq., Moreton Farm, Rochester, N.Y.:

DEAR SIR--Your favor of the 22d of last month came safely to hand, and I am truly obliged to
you for the reply to my question.--You ask, can I help you with facts or suggestions, on the
subject of manure? I fear not much; but it may be useful to you to know what others need to
know. I will look forward to the advent of “Talks on Manures” with much interest, hoping to
get new light on a subject second to none in importance to the farmer.

I have done a little at composting for some years, and am now having a pile of about forty
cords, made up of stable-manure and earth taken from the wash of higher lands, turned and fined.
The labor of digging and hauling the earth, composting in thin layers with manure, turning,
and fining, is so great, I doubt whether it pays for most farm crops--this to be used for mangel-wurzel
and market-garden.

The usual plan in this county is to keep the stable-manure made during winter, and the accumulation
of the summer in the barn-yard, where it is soaked by rain, and trampled fine by cattle, and
in August and September is hauled upon ground to be seeded with wheat and grass-seeds. I do
not think there is much piling and turning done.

My own conclusions, not based on accurate experiments, however, are, that the best manure I
have ever applied was prepared in a covered pit on which cattle were allowed to run, and so
kept well tramped--some drainage into a well, secured by pouring water upon it, when necessary,
and the drainage pumped and distributed over the surface, at short intervals, particularly
the parts not well tramped, and allowed to remain until it became a homogeneous mass, which
it will do without having undergone so active a fermentation as to have thrown off a considerable
amount of gas.

The next best, composting it with earth, as above described, piled about five or six feet high,
turned as often as convenient, and kept moist enough to secure fermentation.

Or, to throw all the manure as made into a covered pit, until it is thoroughly mixed and made
fine, by allowing hogs to run upon it and root at will; and when prepared for even spreading,
apply it as a top-dressing on grass-land--at any convenient time.

As to how many loads of fresh manure it takes to make one of well-rotted manure, it may be
answered approximately, three to one, but that would depend a good deal on the manner of doing
it, and the amount of rough material in it. If well trodden by cattle under cover, and sufficient
drainage poured over it, to prevent any violent fermentation, the loss of weight, I think,
would not be very great, nor the bulk lessened over one-half.

Many years ago an old and successful farmer said to me, “if you want to get the full benefit
of manure, spread it as a top-dressing on some growing crop,” and all my experience and observation
since tend to confirm the correctness of his advice.

While on this subject, allow me to protest against the practice of naming the quantity of manure
applied to a given space, as so many loads, as altogether too indefinite. The bushel or cord
is a definite quantity, which all can understand.

The average price of good livery stable horse-manure at this place has been for several years
four dollars a cord.

With two and a half miles to haul, I am trying whether keeping a flock of 50 breeding ewes,
and feeding liberally with wheat bran, in addition to hay and pasture, will not produce the
needed manure more cheaply.

  Respectfully yours,

     EDWARD JESSOP.

P.S.--You ask for the average weight of a cord of manure, such as we pay four dollars for.

I had a cord of horse-stable manure from a livery stable in York which had been all the time
under cover, with several pigs running upon it, and was moist, without any excess of wet, loaded
into a wagon-box holding an entire cord, or 128 cubic feet, tramped by the wagoner three times
while loading.

The wagon was weighed at our hay-scales before loading, and then the wagon and load together,
with a net result for the manure of 4,400 lbs. I considered this manure rather better than
the average. I had another load, from a different place, which weighed over 5,000 lbs., but
on examination it was found to contain a good deal of coal ashes. We never buy by the ton.
Harrison Bros. & Co., Manufacturing Chemists, Philadelphia, rate barnyard-manure as worth $5.77
per ton, and say that would be about $7.21 per cord, which would be less than 1½ tons to the
cord. If thrown in loosely, and it happened to be very dry, that might be possible.

Waring, in his “Handy Book of Husbandry,” page 201, says, he caused a cord of well-trodden
livery stable manure containing the usual proportion of straw, to be carefully weighed, and
that the cord weighed 7,080 lbs.

The load I had weighed, weighing 4,400 lbs., was considered by the wagoner and by myself as
a fair sample of good manure. In view of these wide differences, further trials would be desirable.
Dana, in his “Muck Manual,” says a cord of green cow-dung, pure, as dropped, weighs 9,289 lbs.

Farmers here seldom draw manure with less than three, more generally with four horses or mules;
loading is done by the purchaser. From the barn-yard, put on loose boards, from 40 to 60 bushels
are about an average load.

In hauling from town to a distance of three to five miles, farmers generally make two loads
of a cord each, a day’s work. From the barn-yard, a very variable number, per day. In my own
case, two men with three horses have been hauling six and seven loads of sixty bushels, fine
compost, a distance of from one-half to three-fourths of a mile, up a long and rather steep
hill, and spreading from the wagon, as hauled, upon grass-sod.

Our larger farmers often have one driver and his team, two wagons, one loading, while the other
is drawn to the field; the driver slips off one of the side-boards, and with his dung-hook
draws off piles at nearly equal distances, to be spread as convenient.

    EDWARD JESSOP.

Letter from Dr. E. L. Sturtevant, South Framingham, Mass.

    SOUTH FRAMINGHAM, MASS., April 2, 1876.

FRIEND HARRIS--Manure about Boston is sold in various ways. First, according to the number
of animals kept; price varying so much, that I do not venture to name the figures. By the cord,
to be trodden over while loading; never by weight, so far as I can learn--price from 0 to $12.00
per cord, according to season, and various accidental circumstances. During the past winter,
manure has been given away in Boston. Handling, hauling to the railroad, and freight costing
$4 per cord for carrying 30 miles out. Market-gardeners usually haul manure as a return freight
on their journeys to and from market. About South Framingham, price stiff at $8 a cord in the
cellar, and this may be considered the ruling suburban price. Very friendly yours,

    E. LEWIS STURTEVANT.

Letter from M. C. Weld.

    NEW YORK, Nov. 9, 1876.

MY DEAR HARRIS--I don’t know what I can write about manures, that would be of use. I have strong
faith in humus, in ashes, leached and unleached, in lime, gas-lime, plaster, bones, ammonia
ready formed, nitrates ready formed, not much in meat and blood, unless they are cheap. Nevertheless,
they often are cheap, and produce splendid effects. I believe in sulphuric acid, with organic
nitrogenous manures; the composting of meat, blood, hair, etc., with peat and muck, and wetting
it down with dilute sulphuric acid. I believe in green-manuring, heartily, and in tillage,
tillage, tillage. Little faith in superphosphates and compounded manures, at selling prices.
Habirshaw’s guano is good enough. So much for my creed. Truly yours,

    M. C. WELD.

Letter from Peter Henderson.

    NEW YORK, Oct. 26, 1876.

Mr. Joseph Harris:

DEAR SIR--If you will refer to my work “Gardening for Profit,” New Edition, page 34, you will
get about all the information I possess on Manures, except that I do not say anything about
price. In a general way it might be safe to advise that whenever a ton (it is always best to
speak of manures by weight) of either cow, horse, hog, or other stable-manure can be laid on
the ground for $3, it is cheaper than commercial fertilizers of any kind at their usual market
rates. This $3 per ton, I think, would be about the average cost in New York, Boston, or Philadelphia.
We never haul it on the ground until we are ready to plow it in. If it has to be taken from
the hog or cattle yards, we draw it out into large heaps, convenient to where it is to be put
on the land, turning it, to keep it from burning or “fire-fanging,” if necessary. None of our
farmers or market-gardeners here keep it under cover. The expense of such covering and the
greater difficulties in getting at it, for the immense quantities we use, would be greater
than the benefits to be derived from keeping it under cover--benefits, in fact, which, I think,
may be greatly overrated. Very truly yours,

    PETER HENDERSON.

Letter from J. M. B. Anderson, Ed. “Canada Farmer,” Toronto.

    “CANADA FARMER” OFFICE, TORONTO, March 29, 1876.

J. Harris, Esq.:

DEAR SIR--Yours of the 25th inst. is to hand, and I shall be most happy to render you any assistance
in my power. The work you undertake is in able hands, and I have every confidence that, when
completed, it will form an invaluable acquisition to the agricultural literature of the day.

Manure in this city is usually sold by the two-horse load--about 1½ tons--at the rate of $1
per load, or 66 cents per ton. The load contains just about a cord of manure, consequently
a cord will weigh about 1½ tons.

With reference to the general management of manure in Canada, I may say that the system followed
differs in no material respect from that of New York and the other Eastern States. It is usually
kept over winter in the open barn yard (rarely under cover, I am sorry to say), laid out on
the land about the time of disappearance of last snow, and plowed in. In some cases it is not
carted out until the land is ready for immediate plowing. With some of our more advanced farmers,
the system has lately been adopted of keeping manure under cover and sprinkling it thoroughly
at intervals with plaster and other substances. Tanks are also becoming more common than formerly,
for the preservation of liquid manure, which is usually applied by means of large, perforated
hogs-heads, after the manner of street-watering.

You ask, how the manure is managed at Bow Park, Brantford. That made during fall and winter
is carefully kept in as small bulk as possible, to prevent exposure to the weather. In February
and March it is drawn out and put in heaps 8 feet square, and well packed, to prevent the escape
of ammonia. In spring, as soon as practicable, it is spread, and plowed under immediately.
Manure made in spring and summer is spread on the field at once, and plowed under with a good,
deep furrow.

  Very truly yours, J. M. B. ANDERSON, Ed. Canada Farmer.

MANURE STATISTICS OF LONG ISLAND.

The Manure Trade of Long Island--Letter from J. H. Rushmore.

    OLD WESTBURY, Long Island, April 6, 1876.

Joseph Harris, Esq.:

DEAR SIR--The great number of dealers in manure in New York precludes accuracy, yet Mr. Skidmore
(who has been testifying voluminously before the New York Board of Health in relation to manure
and street dirt), assures me that the accompanying figures are nearly correct. I enclose statement,
from two roads, taken from their books, and the amount shipped over the other road I obtained
verbally from the General Freight Agent, and embody it in the sheet of statistics.

The Ash report I know is correct, as I had access to the books showing the business, for over
ten years. I have made numerous applications, verbally, and by letter, to our largest market
gardeners, but there seems to exist a general and strong disinclination to communicate anything
worth knowing. I enclose the best of the replies received. Speaking for some of our largest
gardeners, I may say that they cultivate over one hundred acres, and use land sufficiently
near to the city to enable them to dispense with railroad transportation in bringing manure
to their places and marketing crops. I have noticed that one of the shrewdest gardeners invariably
composts horn-shavings and bone-meal with horse-manure several months before expecting to use
it. A safe average of manure used per acre by gardeners, may be stated at ninety (90) tubs,
and from two hundred to twenty hundred pounds of fertilizer in addition, according to its strength,
and the kind of crop.

The following railroad manure statistics will give a generally correct idea of the age of manure,
when used:

  Statement of Manure Sent from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 1875.

              Over F.N.S.&C.R.R.  Over Southern R.R.
  January         1,531  tubs.         5,815 tubs.
  February                             4,357  ”
  March             740   ”           12,217  ”
  April          12,122   ”            7,055  ”
  May             7,383   ”            3,049  ”
  June            5,725   ”            1,365  ”
  July            6,473½  ”              685  ”
  August          6,370½  ”            2,911  ”
  September       3,197   ”           14,702  ”
  October           880   ”              660  ”
  November          512   ”              840  ”
  December        1,406   ”            4,923  ”
                 --------------         ------------
                 46,340  tubs.        57,679 tubs.

A tub is equal to 14 bushels.

Hobson, Hurtado & Co. report the amount of Peruvian guano sold in this country last year at
thirty thousand tons.

Estimated number of horses in New York city, 100,000.

Estimated product of manure per horse. Four cords.

Estimated proportion of straw to pure excrement. One-half.

Amount shipped direct from stables. Nearly all.

Amount shipped on vessels. One-half.

Length of time the unshipped manure remains in heaps. From three to four months.

Average cost per horse, annually. $3.

Greatest distance of shipment. Virginia.

Average amount shipped via L.I.R.R. 60,000 tubs.

Price of manure per tub delivered on cars or vessel. 80 cents.

Average amount put on car. 40 tubs.

Statistics of Ash Trade.--Time when ashes are delivered. From middle of June to middle of October.

Places from which they are mostly shipped. Montreal, Belleville, and Toronto (Canada).

Method of transportation. Canal boats.

Average load per boat. About 8,000 bushels.

Average amount annually sold. 360,000 bushels.

Average cost delivered to farmers. 20½ cents per bushel.

                                           Per Acre, about.
  Amount used by farmers for potatoes         60 tubs.
    ”     ”   ”     ”     ”  cabbage (late)   50  ”
    ”     ”   ”     ”     ”  corn             12  ”

Amount of guano used on Long Island, as represented by the books of Chapman & Vanwyck, and
their estimate of sales by other firms, 5,000 tons.

The fertilizers used on the Island are bought almost exclusively by market gardeners or farmers,
who do a little market gardening, as it is the general conviction that ordinary farm-crops
will not give a compensating return for their application. Most market gardeners keep so little
stock that the manure made on the place is very inconsiderable. Our dairy farmers either compost
home-made manures with that from the city, spread it on the land for corn in the spring, or
rot it separate, to use in the fall for wheat, on land that has been cropped with oats the
same year. The manure put on for potatoes is generally estimated to enrich the land sufficient
for it to produce one crop of winter grain, and from five to seven crops of grass, when it
is again plowed and cultivated in rotation with, first, corn, second, potatoes or oats, and
is reseeded in autumn of the same year.

Fish and fish guano are largely used on land bordering the water, and adjacent to the oil-works.
The average price for guano in bulk at oil-works is $12 per ton. The average price for fish
on wharf is $1.50 per thousand, and it is estimated that, as a general average, 6,000 fish
make a ton of guano. The fish, when applied to corn, are placed two at each hill, and plowed
under at any time after the corn is large enough to cultivate. Seaweed is highly prized by
all who use it, and it will produce a good crop of corn when spread thickly on the land previous
to plowing.

Very respectfully,

    J. H. RUSHMORE.

Letter from John E. Backus.

    NEWTOWN, Long Island, N.Y., March 2nd, 1876.

Mr. G. H. Rushmore:

DEAR SIR.--Some farmers and market-gardeners use more, and some less, manure, according to
crops to be raised. I use about 30 good two-horse wagon-loads to the acre, to be applied in
rows or broad-casted, as best for certain crops. I prefer old horse-dung for most all purposes.
Guano, as a fertilizer, phosphate of bone and blood are very good; they act as a stimulant
on plants and vegetation, and are highly beneficial to some vegetation--more valuable on poor
soil than elsewhere, except to produce a thrifty growth in plants, and to insure a large crop.

By giving you these few items they vary considerably on different parts of the Island; judgment
must be used in all cases and all business. Hoping these few lines may be of some avail to
Mr. Harris and yourself,

  I remain, yours, etc.,

    JOHN E. BACKUS.

MANURE IN PHILADELPHIA.

Letter from Joseph Heacock.

    JENKINTOWN, Montgomery Co., Pa., April 18th, 1876.

MY DEAR FRIEND HARRIS.--Stable-manure in Philadelphia, costs by the single four-horse-load,
about $9 or $10. Mostly, the farmers who haul much of it, have it engaged by the year, and
then it can be had for from $7 to $8 per load. Mostly, four horses are used, though we frequently
see two and three-horse teams, and occasionally, five or six horses are used. I have never
seen any kind of dung hauled but that of horses. Cow-manure would be thought too heavy to haul
so long a distance. Sugar-house waste, spent hops, glue waste, etc, are hauled to a small extent.
We live about 9 miles from the center of the city, and the road is very hilly, though otherwise
a good one, being made of stone.

The loads vary from 2½ to 3½ or 4 tons for four horses, according to the dryness of the manure.
The wagons are made very strong, and weigh from 1,600 lbs. to 2,300 or 2,400 lbs., according
to the number of horses that are to be used to them. I cannot say how many cords there are
in an average load, but probably not less than two cords to four horses. One of my neighbors
has a stable engaged by the year. He pays $2.50 per ton, and averages about three tons per
load, and the distance from the stable in the city to his place, can not be less than 12 miles.
His team goes empty one way and of course can not haul more than a load a day. In fact, can
not average that, as it would be too hard on his horses. The horses used for the purpose are
large and strong. Fifteen or twenty years ago, there was kept on most farms of 75 to 100 acres,
a team purposely for hauling manure from the city. But it is different now, many of the farmers
using artificial manures, as it costs so much less; and others are keeping more stock, and
so making their own manure. Still, there is a great deal hauled yet. And some of it to a distance
of 20 miles. Though when hauled to this distance, the teams are loaded both ways. For instance,
they will start to the city with a load of hay (35 to 50 cwt.), on Monday afternoon (Tuesday
is the day of the Hay Market); and when they have their load of hay off on Tuesday, they load
their manure and drive out five or six miles and put up for the night. Next morning they start
about 3 o’clock, arriving home before noon, having been away two days. On Thursday afternoon,
they start again. You can see that manuring in this way is very expensive. But farmers about
here well know that if they do not manure well they raise but little. Probably about four loads
are used per acre on the average. Each load is generally thrown off the wagon in one large
heap near where wanted, and is allowed to lie until they use it. I can not tell how much it
loses in bulk by lying in the heap.

As to what crops it is used on, farmers do not think that they could go amiss in applying it
to anything except oats. But it is probably used more for top-dressing mowing land, and for
potatoes, than for anything else.

The usual rotation is corn, potatoes, or oats, wheat seeded to clover and timothy, and then
kept in grass from two to four years. Those who haul stable-manure, usually use bone-dust or
superphosphate to a greater or less extent.

Last December I built a pig-pen, 20 ft. × 40 ft., 1½ stories high. The upper story to be used
for litter, etc. There is a four feet entry on the north side, running the length of the building.
The remainder is divided into five pens, each 8 ft. × 16 ft. It is made so that in cold weather
it can be closed up tight, while in warmer weather it can be made as open as an out-shed. I
am very much pleased with it. The pigs make a great deal of manure, and I believe that it can
be made much cheaper than it can be bought and hauled from Philadelphia.

    JOSEPH HEACOCK, Jr.

Letter from Herman L. Routzahn.

    MIDDLETOWN, Md., May 11th, 1876.

Joseph Harris, Esq.:

I herewith proceed to answer questions asked.

Wheat and corn are principal crops. Corn is fed now altogether to stock for the manure.

There is but little soiling done. The principal method of making manure is: Feeding all the
corn raised, as well as hay, oats, and roots, to cattle; using wheat straw, weeds, etc., as
bedding, throwing the manure in the yard (uncovered), and to cover the pile with plaster (by
sowing broadcast), at least once a week. To this pile is added the manure from the hog-pens,
hen-house, etc., and worked over thoroughly at least twice before using. It is then applied
to corn by plowing under; to wheat, as a top-dressing. For corn it is usually hauled to the
field, thrown off in heaps 25 feet each way, a cart-load making two heaps. Spread just before
the plow. For wheat, spread on directly after plowing, and thoroughly harrowed in. Applied
broadcast for potatoes. Composts of different kinds are made and used same as in other localities,
I presume. Artificial manures are going into disrepute (justly too). This is the plan now adopted
by the farmers in this county (Frederick). Where woods are accessible, leaves and mould are
hauled in and added to the manure-heap; in fact, every substance that can be worked into the
manure-heap is freely used. Well-rotted stable-manure is worth from $1.50 to $2.50 per cord,
according to condition and locality.

  Very Respectfully Yours,

    HERMAN L. ROUTZAHN.

Letter from Prof. E. M. Shelton, Prof. of Agriculture, Kansas State Agricultural College.

  KANSAS STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE,

    MANHATTAN, Kansas, May 5, 1876.

DEAR SIR.--In reply to your first question, I would say that stable-manure in this vicinity,
is held in very light estimation. Indeed, by the householders of this city, and quite generally
by the farmers, manure is regarded as one of those things--like drouth and grasshoppers--with
which a mysterious Providence sees fit to clog the operations of the husband-man. The great
bulk of the stable-manure made in this city is, every spring, carted into ravines and vacant
lots--wherever, in short, with least expense it can be put out of reach of the senses.

It must not be understood by this that manure has little influence on the growing crops in
Kansas. Nowhere have I seen such excellent results from application of home-made fertilizers,
as in Kansas. For those sterile wastes known as “Alkali lands,” and “Buffalo wallows,” manure
is a speedy and certain cure. During two years of severe drouth, I have noticed that wherever
manure had been supplied, the crop withstood the effects of dry weather much better than where
no application had been made. Four years ago, a strip across one of our fields was heavily
manured; this year this field is into wheat, and a dark band that may be seen half a mile shows
where this application was made.

These facts the better class of our farmers are beginning to appreciate. A few days ago, a
neighbor, a very intelligent farmer, assured me that from manuring eight to ten acres every
year, his farm was now in better condition than when be broke up the prairie fifteen years ago.

I know of no analysis of stable or farmyard-manure made in Kansas. Concerning the weight of
manures, I can give you a few facts, having had occasion during the past winter to weigh several
loads used for experimental purposes. This manure was wheeled into the barnyard, chiefly from
the cattle stalls, during the winter of 1874-5. It lay in the open yard until February last,
when it was weighed and hauled to the fields. I found that a wagon-box, 1½ × 3 × 9 feet, into
which the manure was pitched, without treading, held with slight variations, when level full,
one ton. At this rate a cord would weigh very close to three tons.

The greatest difficulty that we have to encounter in the management of manure grows out of
our dry summers. During our summer months, unless sufficient moisture is obtained, the manure
dries out rapidly, becomes fire-fanged and practically worthless. My practice upon the College
farm has been to give the bottom of the barn-yard a “dishing” form, so that it holds all the
water that falls upon it. The manure I keep as flat as possible, taking pains to place it where
the animals will keep it trod down solid. I have adopted this plan after having tried composting
and piling the manure in the yards, and am satisfied that it is the only practical way to manage
manures in this climate.

There is no particular crop to which manure is generally applied in this State, unless, perhaps,
wheat. The practice of applying manure as a top-dressing to winter-wheat, is rapidly gaining
ground here. It is found that the manure thus applied, acting as a mulch, mitigates the effects
of drouth, besides improving the quality of the grain.

  Very Respectfully Yours,

   E. M. SHELTON.

Letter from Prof. W. H. Brewer, Professor of Agriculture in Sheffield Scientific School of
Yale College.

  SHEFFIELD SCIENTIFIC SCHOOL OF YALE COLLEGE,

    NEW HAVEN, Conn., April 14th, 1876.

Joseph Harris, Esq., Rochester, N.Y.:

MY DEAR SIR.--I have made inquiries relating to “the price of stable-manure in New Haven, and
how far the farmers and gardeners haul it, etc.” I have not been to the horse-car stables,
but I have to several livery stables, and they are all essentially the same.

They say that but little is sold by the cord or ton, or by any weight or measure. It is sold
either “in the lump,” “by the month,” “by the year,” or “per horse.” Some sell it at a given
sum per month for all their horses, on a general estimate of their horses--thus, one man says,
“I get, this year, $25 per month for all my manure, he to remove it as fast as it accumulates;
say one, two, or three times per week. He hauls it about five miles and composts it all before
using.”

Another says, he sells per horse. “I get, this year, $13 per horse, they to haul it.” The price
per horse ranges from $10 to $15 per year, the latter sum being high.

From the small or private stables, the manure is generally “lumped” by private contract, and
is largely used about the city. It is hauled sometimes as much as 10 miles, but usually much less.

But the larger stables often sell per shipment--it is sent by cars up the Connecticut Valley
to Westfield, etc., where it is often hauled several miles from the railroad or river.

Much manure is sent by boat from New York to the Connecticut Valley tobacco lands. Boats (“barges”)
are even loaded in Albany, go down the Hudson, up the Sound to Connecticut, to various places
near Hartford, I am told. Two or three years ago, a man came here and exhibited to us pressed
masses of manure--a patent had been taken out for pressing it, to send by R.R. (stable manure).
I never heard anything more about it--and he was confident and enthusiastic about it.

  Yours truly,

    WM. H. BREWER.

FOOD, INCREASE, MANURE, ETC., OF FATTENING ANIMALS.

The following table is given by Mr. J. B. Lawes, of Rothamsted, England, showing the relation
of the increase, manure, and loss by respiration, to the food consumed by different animals:

250/600/3500 (Oxen):
   250 lbs. Oil-cake      }
   600 lbs. Clover-chaff  }
  3500 lbs. Swede turnips }
      Produce 100 lbs. Increase and supply:
250/300/4000 (Sheep)
   250 lbs. Oil-cake      }
   300 lbs. Barley meal (Pigs)
    produce 100 lbs. increase and supply:

  (In) Food.
  100 I: In 100 lbs. Increase.
  (In) Man(ure).
  (In) Resp(iration, etc).
  100 Total Dry (Substance of Food supply.)
  (In) Inc(rease).
  Amount (of each constituent) stored (up for 100 of it consumed).

----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                OXEN.
---------------------+-----------------------++----------------++-----
                     |     250/600/3500      || 100 Total Dry  || A S
                     +----+-----+-----+------++-----+----+-----++ m t
                     |Food|100 I| Man.|Resp. || Inc.|Man.|Resp.|| t d.
---------------------+----+-----+-----+------++-----+----+-----++-----
                     |lbs.| lbs.| lbs.| lbs. ||     |    |     ||
Nitrogenous substance| 218| 9.0}|     |    { || 0.8}|    |    {|| 4.1
Non-Nitrogenous      |    |    }|323.0| 636{ ||    }|29.1|57.3{||
  substance          | 808|58.0}|     |    { || 5.2}|    |    {|| 7.2
Mineral Matter       |  83| 1.6 | 81.4|  ..  || 0.2 | 7.4| ..  || 1.9
Total dry substance  |1109|68.6 |404.4| 636  || 6.2 |36.5|57.3 ||  ..
---------------------+----+-----+-----+------++-----+----+-----++-----
                                SHEEP.  || 0.2 | 6.8| ..  || 3.1
Total dry substance  |912 |72.5 | 291 |548.5 || 8.0 |31.9|60.1 ||  ..
---------------------+----+-----+-----+------++-----+----+-----++-----
                                 PIGS.
---------------------+-----------------------++----------------++-----
                     |  500 lbs.  || 0.2 | 2.4|  .. || 7.3
Total dry substance  | 420|73.8 |70.0 |276.2 ||17.6 |16.7|65.7 ||  ..
---------------------+----+-----+-----+------++-----+----+-----++-----

In the last edition of his book on Manure, “Praktische Düngerlehre,” Dr. Emil Wolff, gives
the following tables:

Of 100 lbs. of dry substance in the food, there is found in the excrements:

  --------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------
  Dry Substance.      |  Cow  |  Ox   | Sheep | Horse | Mean
  --------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------
  In the Dung         |38.0 lbs.|45.6 lbs.|46.9 lbs.|42.0 lbs.|43.1 lbs.
  In the Urine        | 9.1 ”   | 5.8 ”   | 6.6 ”   | 3.6 ”   | 6.3 ”
  Total dry substance |         |         |         |         |
    in the Manure     |47.1 ”   |51.4 ”   |53.5 ”   |45.6 ”   |49.4 ”
  --------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------

Of 100 lbs. of organic substance in the food, there is found in the excrements:

  ----------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------
    Organic       |  Cow  |  Ox   | Sheep | Horse | Mean
      Substance.  |         |         |         |         |
  ----------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------
  In the Dung     |36.5 lbs.|43.9 lbs.|45.6 lbs.|38.2 lbs.|41.0 lbs.
  In the Urine    | 6.0  ”  | 3.2  ”  | 3.9  ”  | 2.5  ”  | 3.9  ”
  Total organic   |         |         |         |         |
    substance     |         |         |         |         |
    in Manure     |42.5  ”  |47.1  ”  |49.5  ”  |40.7  ”  |44.9  ”
  ----------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------

Of 100 lbs. of nitrogen in the food, there is found in the excrements:

  ----------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------
    Nitrogen.     |  Cow  |  Ox   | Sheep | Horse | Mean
  ----------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------
  In the Dung     |45.5 lbs.|51.0 lbs.|43.7 lbs.|56.1 lbs.|49.1 lbs.
  In the Urine    |18.3  ”  |38.6  ”  |51.8  ”  |27.3  ”  |34.0  ”
  Total Nitrogen  |         |         |         |         |
    in Manure     |63.8  ”  |89.6  ”  |95.5  ”  |83.4  ”  |83.1  ”
  ----------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------

Of 100 lbs. mineral matter in the food, there is found in the excrements:

  --------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------
    Mineral Matter.   |  Cow  |  Ox   | Sheep | Horse | Mean
  --------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------
  In the Dung         |53.9 lbs.|70.8 lbs.|63.2 lbs.|85.6 lbs.|68.4 lbs.
  In the Urine        |43.1  ”  |46.7  ”  |40.3  ”  |16.3  ”  |35.1  ”
  Total mineral       |         |         |         |         |
    matter in Manure  |97.0  ”  |117. 5 ” |103. 5 ” |101.9  ” |103. 5 ”
  --------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------

The excess of mineral matter is due to the mineral matter in the water drank by the animals.

The following tables of analyses are copied in full from the last edition (1875), of Dr. Emil
Wolff’s Praktische Düngerlehre.

The figures differ materially in many cases from those previously published. They represent
the average results of numerous reliable analyses, and are sufficiently accurate for all practical
purposes connected with the subject of manures. In special cases, it will be well to consult
actual analyses of the articles to be used.

I.--TABLES FOR CALCULATING THE EXHAUSTION AND ENRICHING OF SOILS.

A.--HARVEST PRODUCTS AND VARIOUS MANUFACTURED ARTICLES. Average quantity of water, nitrogen,
and total ash, and the different ingredients of the ash in 1000 lbs. of fresh or air-dried
substance.

  W  Water.
  N  Nitrogen.
  A  Ash.
  P  Potash.
  S  Soda.
  L  Lime.
  M  Magnesia.
  PhA Phosphoric Acid.
  SA  Sulphuric Acid.
  S&S Silica and Sand.

------------------+----+----+-----+----+----+----+----+----+----+-----
  Substance.      | W  | N  |  A  | P  | S  | L  | M  |PhA | SA | S&S
------------------+----+----+-----+----+----+----+----+----+----+-----
  I.--HAY.
Meadow Hay        |143 |15.5| 51.5|13.2| 2.3| 8.6| 3.3| 4.1| 2.4| 13.9
Rye Grass         |143 |16.3| 58.2|20.2| 2.0| 4.3| 1.3| 6.2| 2.3| 18.5
Timothy           |143 |15.5| 62.1|20.4| 1.5| 4.5| 1.9| 7.2| 1.8| 22.1
Moharhay          |134 |17.3| 58.4|21.2| 1.2| 6.1| 5.4| 3.4| 2.1| 16.3
Red Clover        |160 |19.7| 56.9|18.3| 1.2|20.0| 6.1| 5.6| 1.7|  1.4
Red Clover, ripe  |150 |12.5| 44.0| 9.8| 1.4|15.6| 6.8| 4.3| 1.3|  3.0
White Clover      |165 |23.2| 59.8|10.1| 4.5|19.3| 6.0| 8.4| 4.9|  2.5
Alsike Clover     |160 |24.0| 39.7|11.0| 1.2|13.5| 5.0| 4.0| 1.6|  1.6
Crimson Clover    |167 |19.5| 50.7|11.7| 4.3|16.0| 3.1| 3.6| 1.3|  8.2
Lucern            |160 |23.0| 62.1|15.3| 1.3|26.2| 3.3| 5.5| 3.7|  3.8
Esparsette        |167 |21.3| 45.8|13.0| 1.5|16.8| 3.0| 4.6| 1.4|  3.7
Yellow Clover     |167 |22.1| 55.7|11.9| 1.3|32.6| 2.1| 4.3| 1.0|  1.5
Green Vetch Hay   |167 |22.7| 83.7|28.3| 5.6|22.8| 5.4|10.7| 2.8|  4.9
Green Pea Hay     |167 |22.9| 62.4|23.2| 2.3|15.6| 6.3| 6.8| 5.1|  0.9
Spurry            |167 |19.2| 56.8|19.9| 4.6|10.9| 6.9| 8.4| 2.0|  0.8

  II.--GREEN FODDER.
Meadow Grass      |700 | 5.4| 18.1| 4.6| 0.8| 3.0| 1.1| 1.5| 0.8|  4.9
    in bloom      |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
Young Grass       |800 | 5.6| 20.7|11.6| 0.4| 2.2| 0.6| 2.2| 0.8|  2.1
Rye Grass         |734 | 5.7| 20.4| 7.2| 0.7| 1.5| 0.4| 2.2| 0.8|  6.5
Timothy Grass     |700 | 5.4| 21.6| 7.4| 0.5| 1.6| 0.7| 2.5| 0.6|  7.7
Rye-Fodder        |760 | 5.3| 16.3| 6.3| 0.1| 1.2| 0.5| 2.4| 0.2|  5.2
Green Oats        |810 | 3.7| 18.8| 7.5| 0.6| 1.2| 0.6| 1.7| 0.6|  5.7
Green Corn-Fodder |822 | 1.9| 12.0| 4.3| 0.5| 1.6| 1.4| 1.3| 0.4|  1.7
Sorghum           |773 | 4.0| 13.0| 3.6| 1.8| 1.2| 0.5| 0.8| 0.4|  3.7
Moharhay          |700 | 5.9| 13.9| 5.0| 0.3| 1.4| 1.3| 0.8| 0.5|  3.9
Red Clover        |780 | 5.1| 13.7| 4.4| 0.3| 4.8| 1.5| 1.4| 0.4|  0.3
    in blossom    |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
 ”    ”           |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    before  ”     |830 | 5.3| 14.5| 5.3| 0.3| 4.2| 1.5| 1.7| 0.3|  0.4
White Clover      |805 | 5.6| 13.6| 2.3| 1.0| 4.4| 1.4| 1.9| 1.1|  0.6
Alsike Clover     |820 | 5.3|  8.8| 2.4| 0.3| 3.0| 1.1| 0.9| 0.4|  0.4
Crimson Clover    |815 | 4.3| 12.2| 2.8| 1.0| 3.8| 0.7| 0.9| 0.3|  2.0
Lucern            |740 | 7.2| 18.7| 4.6| 0.4| 7.9| 1.0| 1.6| 1.1|  1.1
Esparsette        |800 | 5.1| 12.1| 3.4| 0.4| 4.4| 0.8| 1.2| 0.4|  1.0
Yellow Clover     |830 | 4.5| 14.7| 3.2| 0.3| 8.6| 0.6| 1.1| 0.3|  0.4
Green Vetch       |820 | 5.6| 18.1| 6.1| 1.2| 4.9| 1.2| 2.3| 0.6|  1.1
Green Peas        |815 | 5.1| 13.9| 5.1| 0.5| 3.5| 1.4| 1.5| 1.1|  0.2
Green Rape        |870 | 4.6| 12.2| 4.0| 0.4| 2.7| 0.5| 1.4| 1.7|  0.6
Spurry            |800 | 3.7| 12.2| 4.3| 1.0| 2.3| 1.5| 1.8| 0.4|  0.2

  III.--ROOT CROPS.
Potatoes          |750 | 3.4|  9.4| 5.7| 0.2| 0.2| 0.4| 1.6| 0.6|  0.2
Jerusalem         |800 | 3.2|  9.8| 4.7| 1.0| 0.3| 0.3| 1.4| 0.5|  1.0
    Artichoke     |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
Mangel-wurzel     |880 | 1.8|  7.5| 4.1| 1.2| 0.3| 0.3| 0.6| 0.2|  0.2
Sugar Beets       |815 | 1.6|  7.1| 3.9| 0.7| 0.4| 0.5| 0.8| 0.3|  0.1
Turnips           |920 | 1.8|  7.3| 3.3| 0.7| 0.8| 0.3| 0.9| 0.8|  0.1
Carrots           |850 | 2.2|  7.8| 2.8| 1.7| 0.9| 0.4| 1.0| 0.5|  0.2
Russia Turnips    |870 | 2.1| 11.6| 4.7| 1.2| 1.3| 0.3| 1.7| 1.5|  0.1
Succory           |800 | 2.5|  6.7| 2.6| 1.1| 0.5| 0.3| 0.8| 0.5|  0.3
Sugar Beet, upper |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    part of root  |840 | 2.0|  9.6| 2.8| 2.3| 0.9| 1.1| 1.2| 0.7|  0.2

  IV.--LEAVES & STEMS OF ROOT CROPS.
Potato Vines,     |770 | 4.9| 19.7| 4.3| 0.4| 6.4| 3.3| 1.6| 1.3|  0.9
    nearly ripe   |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
Potato Vines,     |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    unripe        |825 | 6.3| 16.5| 4.4| 0.3| 5.1| 2.4| 1.2| 0.8|  1.2
Jerusalem         |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    Artichoke     |800 | 5.3| 14.5| 3.1| 0.2| 5.0| 1.3| 0.7| 0.2|  3.6
Mangel-wurzel     |905 | 3.0| 14.1| 4.1| 2.9| 1.6| 1.3| 0.8| 0.8|  0.5
Sugar Beets       |897 | 3.0|  8.1| 6.5| 2.7| 2.7| 2.7| 1.3| 0.9|  0.7
Turnips           |898 | 3.0| 11.9| 2.8| 1.1| 3.9| 0.5| 0.9| 1.1|  0.5
Carrots           |822 | 5.1| 26.0| 2.9| 5.2| 8.5| 0.9| 1.2| 2.0|  2.9
Succory           |850 | 3.5| 16.5| 4.3| 2.9| 3.2| 0.4| 1.0| 1.4|  0.6
Russia Turnips    |850 | 4.6| 25.3| 3.7| 1.0| 8.4| 1.0| 2.6| 3.0|  2.6
Cabbage, white    |890 | 2.4| 16.0| 6.3| 0.9| 3.1| 0.6| 1.4| 2.4|  0.2
Cabbage Stems     |820 | 1.8| 11.6| 5.1| 0.6| 1.3| 0.5| 2.4| 0.9|  0.2

  V.--MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS & REFUSE.
Wheat Bran        |131 |22.4| 53.5|14.3| 0.2| 1.7| 8.8|27.3| 0.1|  0.5
Rye Bran          |125 |23.2| 71.4|19.3| 1.0| 2.5|11.3|34.3| .. |  1.4
Barley Bran       |120 |23.7| 48.4| 8.1| 0.7| 1.8| 3.0| 8.9| 0.9| 23.6
Oat Hulls         |140 | .. | 34.7| 4.9| 0.3| 1.4| 1.0| 1.6| 1.3| 23.3
Pea Bran          |140 | .. | 22.7|10.3| 0.2| 4.1| 2.2| 3.1| 0.9|  0.9
Buckwheat Bran    |140 |27.2| 34.6|11.2| 0.7| 3.4| 4.6|12.5| 1.0|  0.7
Wheat Flour       |136 |18.9|  7.2| 2.6| 0.1| 0.2| 0.4| 3.7| .. |  ..
Rye Flour         |142 |16.8| 16.9| 6.5| 0.3| 0.2| 1.4| 8.5| .. |  ..
Barley Meal       |140 |16.0| 20.0| 5.8| 0.5| 0.6| 2.7| 9.5| 0.6|  ..
Corn Meal         |140 |16.0|  5.9| 1.7| 0.2| 0.4| 0.9| 2.6| .. |  ..
Green Malt        |475 |10.4| 14.6| 2.5| .. | 9.5| 1.2| 5.3| .. |  4.8
Dry Malt          | 75 |16.0| 26.6| 4.6| .. | 1.0| 2.2| 9.7| .. |  8.8
Brewer’s Grains   |766 | 7.8| 11.7| 0.5| 0.1| 1.3| 1.0| 4.1| .. |  4.6
Beer              |900 | .. |  6.2| 2.1| 0.6| 0.2| 0.4| 2.0| 0.2|  0.6
Malt-sprouts      | 80 |36.8| 66.7|20.6| 1.2| 1.9| 1.8|18.0| 2.9| 14.7
Potato Fibre      |850 | 1.3|  1.8| 0.3| .. | 0.9| 0.1| 0.4| .. |  0.1
Potato Slump      |948 | 1.6|  5.0| 2.2| 0.4| 0.3| 0.4| 1.0| 0.4|  0.2
Sugar-beet Pomace |700 | 2.9| 11.4| 3.9| 0.9| 2.6| 0.7| 1.1| 0.4|  0.9
Clarifying Refuse |948 | 0.8|  3.3| 0.3| 0.1| 1.1| 0.2| 0.2| 0.1|  0.7
Sugar-beet        |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    Molasses      |172 |12.8| 82.3|57.5|10.0| 4.7| 0.3| 0.5| 1.7|  0.3
Molasses Slump    |920 | 3.2| 14.0|11.0| 1.5| 0.2| .. | 0.1| 0.2|  ..
Rape-cake         |150 |48.5| 54.6|12.4| 1.8| 6.8| 7.0|19.2| 3.2|  2.8
Linseed Oil-cake  |115 |45.3| 50.8|12.4| 0.7| 4.3| 8.1|16.1| 1.6|  6.4
Poppy-cake        |100 |52.0| 76.9| 2.3| 2.3|27.0| 6.2|31.2| 1.9|  4.5
Beech-nut-cake    |100 |38.1| 43.3| 6.5| 4.6|13.2| 3.6| 9.7| 0.6|  0.8
Walnut-cake       |137 |55.3| 46.2|14.3| .. | 3.1| 5.6|20.2| 0.6|  0.7
Cotton-seed-cake  |115 |39.0| 58.4|14.6| .. | 2.7| 8.9|28.1| 0.7|  2.3
Cocoanut-cake     |127 |37.4| 55.1|22.4| 1.3| 2.6| 1.6|14.9| 2.1|  1.9
Palm-oil-cake     |100 |25.9| 26.1| 5.0| 0.2| 3.1| 4.5|11.0| 0.5|  0.8

  VI. STRAW.
Winter Wheat      |143 | 4.8| 46.1| 6.3| 0.6| 2.7| 1.1| 2.2| 1.1| 31.2
Winter Spelt      |143 | 4.0| 50.1| 5.2| 0.3| 2.9| 1.2| 2.6| 1.2| 36.0
Winter Rye        |143 | 4.0| 40.5| 7.8| 0.9| 3.5| 1.1| 2.1| 1.1| 22.9
Spring Wheat      |143 | 5.6| 38.1|11.0| 1.0| 2.6| 0.9| 2.0| 1.2| 18.2
Spring Rye        |143 | 5.6| 46.6|11.2| .. | 4.2| 1.8| 3.0| 1.2| 26.1
Barley            |143 | 6.4| 41.3| 9.4| 1.7| 3.2| 1.1| 1.9| 1.5| 21.5
Oats              |143 | 5.6| 40.4| 8.9| 1.2| 3.6| 1.6| 1.9| 1.3| 19.6
Indian Corn-stalks|150 | 4.8| 41.9| 9.6| 6.1| 4.0| 2.6| 5.3| 1.2| 11.7
Buckwheat Straw   |160 |13.0| 51.7|24.2| 1.1| 9.5| 1.9| 6.1| 2.7|  2.9
Pea Straw         |160 |10.4| 44.0|10.1| 1.8|16.2| 3.5| 3.5| 2.7|  3.0
Field Bean        |160 |16.3| 43.9|18.5| 1.1| 9.8| 3.3| 3.2| 1.6|  3.2
Garden Bean       |160 | .. | 40.0|12.8| 3.2|11.1| 2.5| 3.9| 1.7|  1.9
Common Vetch      |160 |12.0| 44.1| 6.3| 6.9|15.6| 3.7| 2.7| 3.3|  3.6
Lupine            |160 | 9.4| 41.4| 8.0| 2.6|14.8| 3.6| 3.7| 3.0|  2.1
Rape              |160 | 5.6| 40.8|11.1| 3.8|11.6| 2.5| 2.4| 3.1|  2.6
Poppy             |160 | .. | 48.7|18.4| 0.6|14.7| 3.1| 1.6| 2.5|  5.5

  VII. CHAFF.
Winter Wheat      |143 | 7.2| 92.5| 8.5| 1.7| 1.8| 1.2| 4.0| .. | 75.1
Spring Wheat      |143 | 7.5|121.4| 4.8| 1.0| 4.0| 1.5| 3.1| 0.7|105.3
Winter Spelt      |143 | 5.6| 82.7| 7.9| 0.2| 2.0| 2.1| 6.1| 1.9| 61.3
Winter Rye        |143 | 5.8| 84.0| 5.3| 0.3| 3.5| 1.2| 5.6| 0.1| 69.2
Barley Awns       |143 | 4.8|120.0| 9.4| 1.2|12.7| 1.6| 2.4| 3.7| 86.6
Oats              |143 | 6.4| 71.2| 4.6| 2.9| 4.0| 1.5| 1.3| 3.5| 50.4
Indian Corn-cobs  |140 | 2.3|  4.6| 2.4| 0.1| 0.2| 0.2| 0.2| 0.1|  1.3
Field Beans       |150 |16.8| 54.5|35.3| 1.3| 6.8| 5.9| 2.7| 1.2|  0.3
Lupine            |143 | 7.2| 18.1| 8.7| 0.7| 3.6| 1.5| 1.1| 0.5|  0.9
Rape              |140 | 6.4| 73.2|11.8| 4.4|36.3| 4.2| 3.4| 7.3|  1.0
Flax-seed hulls   |120 | .. | 54.7|15.4| 3.0|15.4| 3.3| 4.5| 3.4|  5.0

  VIII. COMMERCIAL PLANTS, ETC.
Flax Stems        |140 | .. | 30.4| 9.4| 2.5| 6.8| 2.0| 4.0| 2.0|  1.7
Rotted Flax Stems |100 | .. |  7.0| 0.3| 0.2| 3.6| 0.2| 0.8| 0.2|  1.3
Flax Fibre        |100 | .. |  6.8| 0.3| 0.3| 3.6| 0.3| 0.7| 0.3|  0.8
Hemp Stems        |150 | .. | 33.2| 4.6| 0.7|20.3| 2.4| 2.3| 0.7|  3.5
Hops, entire plant|140 | .. | 81.4|20.1| 2.8|18.1| 6.4| 7.5| 3.7| 16.4
Hops              |120 | .. | 66.8|23.0| 1.4|11.1| 3.7|11.2| 2.4| 11.1
Hop Stems         |160 | .. | 40.7|11.4| 1.7|12.6| 2.7| 4.4| 1.3|  3.4
Tobacco Leaves    |180 | .. |151.0|30.3| 5.1|62.8|17.7| 4.8| 5.8| 13.5
Wine and Must     |866 | .. |  2.1| 1.3| .. | 0.1| 0.1| 0.4| 0.1|  ..
Wine-grounds      |650 | .. | 13.9| 6.1| 0.2| 2.9| 0.7| 2.5| 0.6|  0.2
Grape Stems, etc. |550 | .. | 13.0| 4.0| 1.4| 4.5| 0.7| 1.6| 0.3|  0.2
Mulberry Leaves   |850 | .. | 16.3| 3.9| 0.2| 5.4| 1.0| 1.3| 0.3|  4.1

  IX. MATERIALS FOR BEDDING.
Reed              |180 | .. | 36.7| 6.8| 0.2| 3.3| 1.1| 2.3| 0.6| 20.0
Sedge Grass       |140 | .. | 61.2|17.7| 4.9| 4.2| 2.9| 4.6| 2.3| 20.3
Rush              |140 | .. | 48.1|19.0| 3.1| 3.6| 3.1| 4.3| 1.3|  6.8
Beech Leaves,     |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    August        |560 | .. | 19.0| 3.7| 0.4| 6.4| 1.4| 1.8| 0.4|  3.8
 ”      ”         |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    Autumn        |150 | 8.0| 58.5| 2.3| 0.4|26.4| 3.5| 2.4| 2.1| 19.7
Oak Leaves,       |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    August        |550 | .. | 15.8| 5.4| .. | 4.1| 2.1| 1.9| 0.4|  0.7
 ”    ”           |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    Autumn        |150 | 8.0| 41.7| 1.4| 0.3|20.3| 1.7| 3.5| 1.8| 12.9
Fir Needles       |475 | 5.0| 18.4| 1.0| 0.3| 6.1| 1.1| 1.0| 0.4|  6.3
Pine   ”          |450 | .. | 32.0| 0.6| 0.1| 4.3| 0.5| 1.4| 0.6| 22.6
Moss              |250 | .. | 19.2| 2.6| 1.6| 2.2| 1.1| 0.9| 1.0|  5.5
Fern              |250 | .. | 50.7|18.0| 2.1| 6.2| 3.5| 4.2| 1.8| 10.3
Heath             |200 |10.0| 16.6| 2.1| 1.1| 3.6| 1.6| 1.1| 0.7|  4.9
Broom             |250 | .. | 13.6| 4.8| 0.3| 2.2| 1.6| 1.1| 0.4|  1.3
Sea-Weed          |150 |14.0|122.3|15.9|28.1|16.7|10.0| 3.8|26.3|  2.5

  X. GRAINS AND SEEDS.
Winter Wheat      |144 |20.8| 16.9| 5.3| 0.4| 0.6| 2.0| 7.9| 0.1|  0.4
Spring Wheat      |143 |20.5| 18.3| 5.5| 0.4| 0.5| 2.2| 8.9| 0.3|  0.3
Spelt,            |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
    without husk  |143 |22.0| 14.2| 5.1| 0.5| 0.4| 1.7| 6.0| .. |  0.2
Spelt, with husk  |148 |16.0| 36.6| 5.7| 0.4| 1.0| 2.4| 7.6| 1.1| 17.1
Winter Rye        |143 |17.6| 17.9| 5.6| 0.3| 0.5| 2.1| 8.4| 0.2|  0.4
Winter Barley     |145 |16.0| 17.0| 2.6| 0.7| 0.2| 2.1| 5.6| 0.5|  4.9
Spring Barley     |143 |16.0| 22.2| 4.5| 0.6| 0.6| 1.9| 7.7| 0.4|  6.1
Oats              |143 |19.2| 27.0| 4.4| 0.6| 1.0| 1.9| 6.2| 0.4| 12.8
Millet            |140 |20.3| 29.8| 3.4| 0.4| 0.2| 2.9| 5.9| 0.1| 15.8
Indian Corn       |144 |16.0| 13.0| 3.7| 0.2| 0.3| 2.0  5.9| 0.2|  0.2
Sorghum           |140 | .. | 16.0| 3.3| 0.5| 0.2| 2.4| 8.1| .. |  1.2
Buckwheat         |140 |14.4| 11.8| 2.7| 0.7| 0.5| 1.5| 5.7| 0.2|  0.1
Peas              |143 |35.8| 23.5| 9.8| 0.2| 1.2| 1.9| 8.6| 0.8|  0.2
Field Beans       |145 |40.8| 30.7|13.1| 0.4| 1.5| 2.2|11.9| 0.8|  0.2
Garden Beans      |150 |39.0| 27.4|12.0| 0.4| 1.8| 2.0| 9.7| 1.1|  0.2
Vetch             |143 |44.0| 26.8| 8.1| 2.1| 2.1| 2.4|10.0| 1.0|  0.3
Lupine            |130 |56.6| 34.1|10.2| 0.1| 3.0| 4.0|14.3| 1.5|  0.2
Red Clover        |150 |30.5| 38.3|13.5| 0.4| 2.5| 4.9|14.5| 0.9|  0.5
White Clover      |150 | .. | 33.8|12.3| 0.2| 2.5| 3.9|11.6| 1.6|  0.8
Esparsette        |160 | .. | 38.4|11.0| 1.1|12.3| 2.6| 9.2| 1.2|  0.3
Ruta-bagas        |140 | .. | 48.8| 9.1| 8.5| 7.6| 8.6| 7.6| 2.1|  1.1
Sugar-Beet        |146 | .. | 45.3|11.1| 4.2|10.2| 7.3| 7.5| 2.0|  0.8
Carrots           |120 | .. | 74.8|14.3| 3.5|29.1| 5.0|11.8| 4.2|  4.0
Succory           |130 | .. | 54.6| 6.5| 4.6|17.3| 5.9|16.5| 2.4|  0.6
Turnips           |125 | .. | 34.6| 7.6| 0.4| 6.1| 3.1|14.0| 2.5|  0.2
Rape              |118 |31.2| 39.1| 9.6| 0.6| 5.5| 4.6|16.5| 0.9|  0.5
Summer-Rape       |120 | .. | 34.9| 7.7| .. | 5.2| 4.7|14.9| 2.3|  ..
Mustard           |130 | .. | 36.5| 5.9| 2.0| 7.0| 3.7|14.6| 1.8|  0.9
Poppy             |147 |28.0| 52.9| 7.2| 0.5|18.7| 5.0|16.6| 1.0|  1.7
Linseed           |118 |32.8| 32.6|10.0| 0.7| 2.6| 4.7|13.5| 0.8|  0.4
Hemp              |122 |26.1| 45.3| 9.4| 0.4|10.9| 2.6|16.9| 0.1|  5.5
Grape-Seeds       |110 | .. | 25.0| 7.2| .. | 8.4| 2.1| 6.0| 0.6|  0.3
Horse-chestnuts,  |492 |10.2| 12.0| 7.1| .. | 1.4| 0.1| 2.7| 0.3|  0.3
    fresh         |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |    |    |
Acorns, fresh     |560 | .. |  9.6| 6.2| 0.1| 0.7| 0.5| 1.4| 0.4|  0.1

  XI. VARIOUS ANIMAL PRODUCTS
Cows’ Milk        |875 | 5.1|  6.2| 1.5| 0.6| 1.3| 0.2| 1.7| .. |  ..
Sheep             |860 | 5.5|  8.4| 1.8| 0.3| 2.5| 0.1| 3.0| 0.1|  0.2
Cheese            |450 |45.3| 67.4| 2.5|26.6| 6.9| 0.2|11.5| .. |  ..
Ox-blood          |790 |32.0|  7.5| 0.6| 3.4| 0.1| 0.1| 0.4| 0.2|  0.1
Calf-blood        |800 |29.0|  7.1| 0.8| 2.9| 0.1| 0.1| 0.6| 0.1|  ..
Sheep-blood       |790 |32.0|  7.5| 0.5| 3.3| 0.1| 0.1| 0.4| 0.1|  ..
Swine-blood       |800 |29.0|  7.1| 1.5| 2.2| 0.1| 0.1| 0.9| 0.1|  ..
Ox-flesh          |770 |36.0| 12.6| 5.2| .. | 0.2| 0.4| 4.3| 0.4|  0.3
Calf flesh        |780 |34.9| 12.0| 4.1| 1.0| 0.2| 0.2| 5.8| .. |  0.1
Swine-flesh       |740 |34.7| 10.4| 3.9| 0.5| 0.8| 0.5| 4.6| .. |  ..
Living Ox         |597 |26.6| 46.6| 1.7| 1.4|20.8| 0.6|18.6| .. |  0.1
Living Calf       |662 |25.0| 38.0| 2.4| 0.6|16.3| 0.5|13.8| .. |  0.1
Living Sheep      |591 |22.4| 31.7| 1.5| 1.4|13.2| 0.4|12.8| .. |  0.2
Living Swine      |528 |20.0| 21.6| 1.8| 0.2| 9.2| 0.4| 8.8| .. |  ..
Eggs              |672 |21.8| 61.8| 1.5| 1.4|54.0| 1.0| 3.7| 0.1|  0.1
Wool, washed      |120 |94.4|  9.7| 1.8| 0.3| 2.4| 0.6| 0.3| .. |  2.5
Wool, unwashed    |150 |54.0| 98.8|74.6| 1.9| 4.2| 1.6| 1.1| 4.0|  3.0
------------------+----+----+-----+----+----+----+----+----+----+-----

B.--AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF VARIOUS MANURES.

  W  Water.
  OS Organic Substance.
  A  Ash.
  N  Nitrogen.
  C&F Chlorine and Florine.

------------+----+----+-----+----+----+----+----+---+----+----+----+----
Name of     |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
Fertilizer. | W  | OS |  A  | N  | P  | S  | L  | M | PhA| SA |S&S |C&F
------------+----+----+-----+----+----+----+----+---+----+----+----+----
I.--Animal Excrements.      |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
(In 1000 parts of Manure.)  |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
            |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
Fresh Fæces:|    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  Horse     |757 |211 | 31.6| 4.4| 3.5| 0.6| 1.5|1.2| 3.5| 0.6|19.6| 0.2
  Cattle    |838 |145 | 17.2| 2.9| 1.0| 0.2| 3.4|1.3| 1.7| 0.4| 7.2| 0.2
  Sheep     |655 |314 | 31.1| 5.5| 1.5| 1.0| 4.6|1.5| 3.1| 1.4|17.5| 0.3
  Swine     |820 |150 | 30.0| 6.0| 2.6| 2.5| 0.9|1.0| 4.1| 0.4|15.0| 0.3
Fresh Urine:     |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  Horse     |901 | 71 | 28.0|15.5|15.0| 2.5| 4.5|2.4| .. | 0.6| 0.8| 1.5
  Cattle    |938 | 35 | 27.4| 5.8| 4.9| 6.4| 0.1|0.4| .. | 1.3| 0.3| 3.8
  Sheep     |872 | 83 | 45.2|19.5|22.6| 5.4| 1.6|3.4| 0.1| 3.0| 0.1| 6.5
  Swine     |967 | 28 | 15.0| 4.3| 8.3| 2.1| .. |0.8| 0.7| 0.8| .. | 2.3
Fresh Dung (with straw:)*   |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  Horse     |713 |254 | 32.6| 5.8| 5.3| 1.0| 2.1|1.4| 2.8| 0.7|17.7| 0.4
  Cattle    |775 |203 | 21.8| 3.4| 4.0| 1.4| 3.1|1.1| 1.6| 0.6| 8.5| 1.0
  Sheep     |646 |318 | 35.6| 8.3| 6.7| 2.2| 3.3|1.8| 2.3| 1.5|14.7| 1.7
  Swine     |724 |250 | 25.6| 4.5| 6.0| 2.0| 0.8|0.9| 1.9| 0.8|10.8| 1.7
Common Barn-yard Manure:    |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  Fresh     |710 |246 | 44.1| 4.5| 5.2| 1.5| 5.7|1.4| 2.1| 1.2|12.5| 1.5
  Moderately|    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    rotted  |750 |192 | 58.0| 5.0| 6.3| 1.9| 7.0|1.8| 2.6| 1.6|16.8| 1.9
  Thoroughly|    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    rotted  |790 |145 | 65.0| 5.8| 5.0| 1.3| 8.8|1.8| 3.0| 1.3|17.0| 1.6
Drainage from Barn-yard     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Manure  |982 |  7 | 10.7| 1.5| 4.9| 1.0| 0.3|0.4| 0.1| 0.7| 0.2| 1.2
Human Fæces,|    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    fresh   |772 |198 | 29.9|10.0| 2.5| 1.6| 6.2|3.6|10.9| 0.8| 1.9| 0.4
  ”   Urine,|    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
      ”     |963 | 24 | 13.5| 6.0| 2.0| 4.6| 0.2|0.2| 1.7| 0.4| .. | 5.0
Mixed human excrements,     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    fresh   |933 | 51 | 16.0| 7.0| 2.1| 3.8| 0.9|0.6| 2.6| 0.5| 0.2| 4.0
Mixed human excrements, mostly   |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    liquid  |955 | 30 | 15.0| 3.5| 2.0| 3.0| 1.0|0.6| 2.8| 0.4| 0.2| 4.3
Dove Manure,|    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    fresh   |519 |308 |173.0|17.6|10.0| 0.7|16.0|5.0|17.8| 3.3|20.2| ..
Hen   ”  ”  |560 |255 |185.0|16.3| 8.5| 1.0|24.0|7.4|15.4| 4.5|35.2| ..
Duck  ”  ”  |566 |262 |172.0|10.0| 6.2| 0.5|17.0|3.5|14.0| 3.5|28.0| ..
Geese ”  ”  |771 |134 | 95.0| 5.5| 9.5| 1.3| 8.4|2.0| 5.4| 1.4|14.0| ..
            |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
II.--Commercial Manures.    |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
(In 100 parts of Fertilizer.)    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
            |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
Peruvian    |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Guano   |14.8|51.4| 33.8|13.0| 2.3| 1.4|11.0|1.2|13.0| 1.0| 1.7| 1.3
Norway      |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  Fish-Guano|12.6|53.4| 34.0| 9.0| 0.3| 0.9|15.4|0.6|13.5| 0.3| 1.6| 1.1
Poudrette   |24.0|27.0| 49.0| 2.0| 0.9| 1.0|18.6|0.5| 2.1| 1.0| 5.4| 1.5
Pulverized Dead  |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Animals | 5.7|56.9| 37.4| 6.5| 0.3| 0.8|18.2|0.4|13.9| 1.0| 1.7| 0.2
Flesh-Meal  |27.8|56.6| 15.6| 9.7| .. | .. | 7.0|0.3| 6.3| 0.1| 1.1| ..
Dried Blood |14.0|79.0|  7.0|11.7| 0.7| 0.6| 0.7|0.1| 1.0| 0.4| 2.1| 0.4
Horn-Meal and    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Shavings| 8.5|68.5| 25.0|10.2| .. | .. | 6.6|0.3| 5.5| 0.9|11.0| ..
Bone-Meal   | 6.0|33.3| 60.7| 3.8| 0.2| 0.3|31.3|1.0|23.2| 0.1| 3.5| 0.3
Bone-Meal from solid  |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    parts   | 5.0|31.5| 63.5| 3.5| 0.1| 0.2|33.0|1.0|25.2| 0.1| 3.0| 0.2
Bone-Meal from soft   |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    parts   | 7.0|37.3| 55.7| 4.0| 0.2| 0.3|29.0|1.0|20.0| 0.1| 3.5| 0.2
Bone-black, before    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    used    | 6.0|10.0| 84.0| 1.0| 0.1| 0.3|43.0|1.1|32.0| 0.4| 5.0| ..
Bone-black, |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    spent   |10.0| 6.0| 84.0| 0.5| 0.1| 0.2|37.0|1.1|26.0| 0.4|15.0| ..
Bone ash    | 6.0| 3.0| 91.0| .. | 0.3| 0.6|46.0|1.2|35.4| 0.4| 6.5| ..
Baker Guano |10.0| 9.2| 81.0| 0.5| 0.2| 1.2|41.5|1.5|34.8| 1.5| 0.8| 0.3
Jarvis Guano|11.8| 8.2| 80.0| 0.4| 0.4| 0.3|39.1|0.5|20.6|18.0| 0.5| 0.2
Estremadura |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Apatite | 0.6| .. |  .. | .. | 0.7| 0.3|48.1|0.1|37.6| 0.2| 9.0| 1.5
Sombrero    |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  Phosphate | 8.5| .. | 91.5| 0.1| .. | 0.8|43.5|0.6|35.0| 0.5| 1.0| 0.6
Navassa     |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  Phosphate | 2.6| 5.4| 92.0| 0.1| .. | .. |37.5|0.6|33.2| 0.5| 5.0| 0.1
Nassau Phosphorite,   |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    rich    | 2.6| .. | 97.4| .. | 0.8| 0.4|45.1|0.2|33.0| 0.3| 5.5| 3.1
Nassau Phosphorite,   |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    medium  | 2.5| .. | 97.5| .. | 0.7| 0.4|40.1|0.2|24.1| .. |20.8| 1.5
Westphalian Phos-|    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    phorite | 6.5| 1.6| 91.8| .. | .. | .. |21.8|0.9|19.7| 1.0|22.0| 1.6
Hanover Phos-    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    phorite | 2.0| 3.5| 94.5| .. | .. | .. |37.2|0.2|29.2| 0.5| 3.3| 1.5
Coprolites  | 4.3| .. | 95.7| .. | 1.0| 0.5|45.4|1.0|26.4| 0.8| 7.5| 0.1
Sulphate of |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Ammonia | 4.0| .. |  .. |20.0| .. | .. | 0.5| ..| .. |58.0| 3.0| 1.4
Nitrate of  |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Soda    | 2.6| .. |  .. |15.5| .. |35.0| 0.2| ..| .. | 0.7| 1.5| 1.7
Wool-dust and    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    offal   |10.0|56.0| 34.0| 5.2| 0.3| 0.1| 1.4|0.3| 1.3| 0.5|29.0| 0.2
Lime-cake   | 6.5|47.0| 46.5| 3.1| .. | .. |20.5|2.4| 3.0| .. | 8.0| ..
Whale-oil   |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    refuse  |23.0|68.4|  8.6| 5.7| .. | .. | 3.0|0.2| 2.3| .. | 3.0| ..
Common Salt | 5.0| .. | 95.0| .. | .. |44.3| 1.2|0.2| .. | 1.4| 2.0|48.2
Gypsum or   |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Plaster |20.0| .. | 80.8| .. | .. | .. |31.0|0.1| .. |44.0| 4.0| ..
Gas-lime    | 7.0| 1.3| 91.7| 0.4| 0.2| .. |64.5|1.5| .. |12.5| 3.0| ..
Sugar-House |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Scum    |34.5|24.5| 41.0| 1.2| 0.2| 0.6|20.7|0.3| 1.5| 0.3| 9.1| 0.1
Leached wood|    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    ashes   |20.0| 5.0| 75.0| .. | 2.5| 1.3|24.5|2.5| 6.0| 0.3|20.0| ..
Wood-soot   | 5.0|71.8| 23.2| 1.3| 2.4| 0.5|10.0|1.5| 0.4| 0.3| 4.0| ..
Coal-soot   | 5.0|70.2| 24.8| 2.5| 0.1| .. | 4.0|1.5| .. | 1.7|16.0| ..
Ashes from Deciduous  |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    trees   | 5.0| 5.0| 90.0| .. |10.0| 2.5|30.0|5.0| 6.5| 1.6|18.0| 0.3
Ashes from Evergreen  |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    trees   | 5.0| 5.0| 90.0| .. | 6.0| 2.0|35.0|6.0| 4.5| 1.6|18.0| 0.3
Peat-ashes  | 5.0| .. | 95.0| .. | 1.5| 0.8| ?  |1.5| 0.6| 1.3| ?  | 0.2
Bituminous  |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  coal-ashes| 5.0| .. | 95.0| .. | 0.5| 0.4| ?  |3.2| 0.2| 3.5| ?  | ..
Anthracite  |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  coal-ashes| 5.0| 5.0| 90.0| .. | 0.1| 0.1| ?  |3.0| 0.1| 5.0| ?  | ..
            |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
III. Superphosphate, from   |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
            |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
Peruvian    |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Guano   |16.0|41.9| 42.1|10.0| 2.0| 1.2| 9.5|1.0|10.5|15.0| 1.5| 1.1
Baker Guano |15.0| 6.2| 78.8| 0.3| 0.1| 0.8|25.9|0.9|21.8|28.5| 0.9| 0.2
Estremadura |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    Apatite |15.0| .. | 85.0| .. | 0.4| 0.2|28.2|0.1|22.1|28.5| 5.3| 0.9
Sombrero    |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  Phosphate |15.0| .. | 85.0| .. | .. | 0.5|26.4|0.4|20.2|25.5| 0.6| 0.4
Navassa     |    |    |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  Phosphate |15.0| 2.5| 82.5| .. | .. | ?  |17.0|0.3|15.4|19.5| 2.3| ?
Nassau Phosphorite,   |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    rich    |15.0| .. |85.0 | .. | 0.5| 0.2|26.5|0.1|19.4|25.5| 3.2| 1.8
Nassau Phosphorite,   |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
    medium  |12.0| .. |88.0 | .. | 0.3| 0.1|24.2|0.1|16.6|19.5|13.5| 1.3
Bone-black  |15.0| 8.0|77.0 | 0.3| .. | 0.1|25.0|0.7|16.2|21.0| 9.3| ..
Bone-Meal   |13.0|23.8|63.2 | 2.0| 0.1| 0.2|22.4|0.7|16.6|19.5| 2.5| 0.2
Phospho-guano (manu-  |     |    |    |    |    |   |    |    |    |
  factured.)|15.5|13.0|80.3 | 3.3| 0.3| 0.4|24.0| ..|20.5|28.8| 3.0| 0.9
------------+----+----+-----+----+----+----+----+---+----+----+----+----

  * It is estimated that in the case of horses, cattle, and swine,
  one-third of the urine drains away. The following is the amount of
  wheat-straw used daily as bedding for each animal. Horse, 6 lbs.;
  Cattle, 8 lbs.; Swine, 4 lbs., and sheep, 0.6 lbs.

  2.--TABLE SHOWING THE DISTRIBUTION OF INGREDIENTS IN SOME
  MANUFACTURING PROCESSES.

  DS  Dry Substance.
  N   Nitrogen.
  A   Ash.
  P   Potash.
  L   Lime.
  M   Magnesia.
  PhA Phosphoric Acid.

----------------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----
  Name of Material.         | DS  |  N  |  A  |  P  |  L  |  M  | PhA
----------------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----
  1.--Brewing.              | lbs.| lbs.| lbs.| lbs.| lbs.| lbs.| lbs.
1000 lbs. Barley, contain   |855  | 15.2|22.23|4.48 |0.58 |1.92 |7.71
  15  ”   Hops       ”      | 13.2|  .. | 1.00|0.345|0.167|0.056|0.168
  Distribution of the Ingredients:      |     |     |     |     |
Water                       |  .. |  .. | 1.23|0.852|0.039|0.045|0.234
Malt-Sprouts                | 33  | 1.38| 2.43|0.749|0.069|0.066|0.653
Brewers’ Grains             |269  | 8.74|13.08|0.580|1.474|1.134|3.631
Spent Hops                  |  9  | ..  | 0.54|0.032|0.160|0.055|0.062
Yeast                       | 30  | 2.94| 2.27|0.643|0.097|0.185|1.349
Beer                        |  .. | 2.14| 3.65|1.998|  .. |0.484|0.939
                            |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  2.--Distillery.           |     |     |     |     |     |     |
a. 1000 lbs. Potatoes,      |     |     |     |     |     |     |
    contain                 |250  | 3.2 | 9.43|5.69 | 0.24|0.44 |1.63
       40  ”   Kiln-Malt    | 37  | 0.56| 1.06|0.184|0.040|0.088|0.388
       20  ”   Yeast-Malt   | 18.5| 0.28| 0.53|0.092|0.020|0.044|0.194
The Slump, contains         |125  | 4.04|11.02|5.966|0.300|0.572|2.212
  (b.) Grain Spirits.       |     |     |     |     |     |     |
800 lbs. Rye, contain       |684  |14.08|14.32|4.501|0.376|1.648|6.710
200  ”   Kiln-Malt, contain |184  | 2.82| 5.12|0.883|0.195|0.429|1.526
 50  ”   Yeast-Malt,   ”    | 46  | 0.71| 1.28|0.221|0.049|0.107|0.382
The Slump, contains         |443  |17.61|20.72|5.605|0.620|2.184|8.618
                            |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  3.--Yeast Manufacture.    |     |     |     |     |     |     |
700 lbs. bruised Rye,       |     |     |     |     |     |     |
    contain                 |599  |12.32|12.53|3.941|0.329|1.444|5.876
300  ”   Barley-Malt,  ”    |276  | 4.23| 7.67|1.325|0.293|0.643|2.801
  Distribution of the Ingredients:      |     |     |     |     |
Yeast                       | 45  | 4.60| 3.41|1.273|0.192|0.367|2.672
Grains and Slump            |325  |11.95|16.79|3.993|0.430|1.720|6.005
                            |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  4.--Starch Manufacture.   |     |     |     |     |     |     |
1000 lbs. Potatoes, contain |250  | 3.20| 9.43|5.69 |0.24 |0.44 |1.63
The remains in the Fibre    | 75  | 0.60| 0.51|0.086|0.266|0.042|0.133
 ”     ”      ”    Water    | 45  | 2.60| 8.89|5.604|  .. |0.398|1.497
                            |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  5.--Milling.              |     |     |     |     |     |     |
1000 lbs. Wheat, contain    |857  |20.80|16.88|5.26 |0.57 |2.02 |7.94
  Distribution of the Ingredients:      |     |     |     |     |
Flour     (77.5 per cent)   |664  |14.65| 5.50|1.980|0.154|0.458|2.862
Mill-feed ( 6.5    ”    )   | 58  | 1.64| 1.80|0.648|0.050|0.148|0.936
Bran      (16.0    ”    )   |135  | 4.51| 9.60|2.762|0.396|1.394|4.102
                            |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  6.--Cheese-Making.        |     |     |     |     |     |     |
1000 lbs. Milk, contain     |125  | 4.80| 6.10|1.505|1.333|0.186|1.735
  Distribution of the Ingredients:      |     |     |     |     |
Cheese                      | 65  | 4.53| 2.84|0.247|0.687|0.028|1.515
Whey                        | 60  | 0.27| 3.26|1.258|0.646|0.158|0.584
                            |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  7.--Beet-Sugar Manufacture.     |     |     |     |     |     |
1000 lbs. Roots, contain    |184  | 1.60| 7.10|3.914|0.379|0.536|0.780
  Distribution of the Ingredients:      |     |     |     |     |
Tops and Tails (12 per cent |     |     |     |     |     |     |
    of roots)               | 19  | 0.24| 1.15|0.336|0.108|0.132|0.144
Pomace (15 per cent         |     |     |     |     |     |     |
    of roots)               | 46  | 0.44| 1.71|0.585|0.390|0.105|0.165
Skimmings (4 per cent       |     |     |     |     |     |     |
    of roots)               | 24  | 0.60| 1.20|0.380|8.640|0.240|0.384
Molasses (3 per cent        |     |     |     |     |     |     |
    of roots)               | 25  | 0.32| 2.47|1.741|0.141|0.009|0.015
Sugar and loss              | 85  |  .. | 0.57|0.872| ..  |0.040|0.072
                            |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  8. Flax Dressing.         |     |     |     |     |     |     |
1000 lbs. Flax-Stalks,      |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  contain                   |860  |  .. |30.36|9.426|6.751|1.995|3.990
  Distribution of the Ingredients:      |     |     |     |     |
In the Water                |215  |  .. |25.15|9.175|4.100|1.850|3.400
Stems or Husks              |460  |  .. | 4.03|0.171|2.052|0.096|0.474
Flax and Tow                |155  |  .. | 1.22|0.054|0.648|0.054|0.126
----------------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----

INDEX.

Absorptive Powers of Soils,                                    217
Ammonia Absorbed by Soil from the Atmosphere,                  219
Ammonia and Superphosphate,                                    242
  ”     and Weeds,                                             254
  ”     Converted into Nitric Acid in the Soil,                313
  ”     for Oats,                                          253-254
  ”     for Potatoes,                                          261
  ”     for Wheat,                                         192-213
  ”     in Fresh Horse-dung,                                    96
  ”     in Limed and Unlimed Soils,                            220
  ”     in the Soil Liberated by Lime,                         221
  ”     Locked Up in the Soil,                                 221
  ”     Loss of by Fermenting Manure,                           98
  ”     on Grass Land,                                         273
  ”     Potential,                                              31
  ”     Quantity of to Produce One Bushel of Wheat,        211-212
  ”     Required to Produce a Bushel of Barley,            240-242
  ”     Retained by the Soil,                                  218
  ”     Salts, Composition of,                                 312
  ”       ”    How to Apply,                               286-312
  ”       ”    for Private Gardens,                            297
Anderson, J. M. B., Letter from,                               345
Animals, Composition of Manure from Different,                 306
  ”      What They Remove from the Food,                       301
Apple Trees, Nitrate of Soda for,                              314
Artificial Manures, Will They Pay,                             214
Ashes, Burnt Earth,                                             72
  ”    Coal,                                                    72
  ”    for Barley,                                             241
  ”    for Indian Corn,                                        279
  ”    for Oats,                                               253
  ”    for Potatoes,                                           259
  ”    of Manure for Wheat,                                    173
  ”    on Long Island,                                         346
  ”    Plaster and Hen-dung for Potatoes,                      255
  ”    Wood,                                                   104

Barley After Ten Crops of Turnips,                             250
  ”    a Large Yield of,                                       242
  ”    and Clover after a heavily-manured Root-crop,           287
  ”    Best Soil for,                                          227
  ”    Cost of Raising With and Without Manure,                245
  ”    Lawes’ and Gilbert’s Experiments on,                    227
  ”    Potash Increases the Crop of at Rothamsted,             329
  ”    Profits of Raising in Poor Seasons,                     243
  ”    Quality and Price of,                                   242
  ”    Yield Per Acre,                                          11
Barn-yard Manure, Difference in Quality of,                    246
Bean-straw for Manure,                                          48
Beets, Sugar, Lawes’ and Gilbert’s Experiments on,             288
  ”      ”    Manure for,                                      286
Blood,                                                          32
Bone-dust,                                                     314
  ”   ”    Composition of Compared with Stable Manure,         316
  ”   ”    Fermented with Manure,                              316
  ”   ”    Made into Superphosphate,                           319
  ”   ”    on Dairy Farms,                                     315
Bones as Manure,                                               102
Bran,                                                           26
  ”   for Manure,                                              102
  ”   Richer in Plant-food than Wheat,                         301
Brewer, Prof. W. H., Letter from,                              341

Cabbage and Barn-yard Manure, Composition of,                  292
  ”     Composition of,                                    290-292
  ”     Hog and Cow Manure for,                                302
  ”     Lime for,                                              292
  ”     Manure for,                                        275-290
  ”     Manure for Early and Late,                             291
  ”     Needs a Large Supply of Nitrogen in the Soil.
          Though it Removes but Little,                        293
  ”     Potash for,                                            292
  ”     Special Manure for,                                    323
  ”     Yield of per Acre,                                     291
Cattle vs. Sheep as Manure-makers,                             303
Cheese, from a Ton of Hay,                                     111
  ”     Plant-food in,                                         101
  ”     versus Beef,                                           110
Clay Retains Ammonia,                                          219
Clover and Indian Corn,                                        275
  ”    as a Renovating and Exhausting Crop,                    277
  ”    as Manure,                                          119-122
  ”    as Manure for Wheat,                                    158
  ”    Does it Get Nitrogen from the Atmosphere,           133-138
  ”    Dr. Vœlcker’s Experiments on,                           135
  ”    for Wheat,                                              126
  ”    Gathers Up Manure from the Sub-soil,                    287
  ”    Hay, Composition of,                                129-137
  ”    Hay, English and German, for Manure,                     47
  ”    How to Make a Farm Rich by Growing,                 133-163
  ”    Letting it Rot on the Surface as Manure,                134
  ”    Nitrogen as a Manure for,                               141
  ”    Pasturing by Sheep versus Mowing for Hay,               137
  ”    Plowing Under versus Feeding Out,                       123
  ”    Roots, Amount of per Acre,                      143-144-155
  ”    Roots, Composition of,                              145-147
  ”    Seed, Amount of Roots per Acre,                         162
  ”    Water Evaporated by,                                    132
  ”    Why it Enriches Land,                                   131
Coal-ashes to Mix with Artificial Manures,                     312
Composting Cow-manure with Muck, Leaves, etc,                  302
Compost of Stable-manure and Earth,                            342
Corn, as a Renovating Crop,                                    275
  ”   Ashes for,                                               279
  ”   Barn-yard Manure for,                                    284
  ”   Cost of Raising,                                           9
  ”   Crop, Composition of,                                     25
  ”   Experiments on,                                          279
  ”   Guano for,                                           279-284
  ”   Manure for,                                              275
  ”   Meal for Manure,                                         185
  ”   Superphosphate for,                                  279-284
  ”   Fodder,                                                  275
  ”     ”     vs. Mangel-wurzels,                              288
  ”     ”     Plaster for,                                     277
  ”     ”     vs. Wheat, Yield per acre,                       276
Cotton-seed Cake,                                           46-339
Cow-manure,                                                 86-100
 ”    ”     and How to Use it,                                 302
 ”    ”     Composition of,                                    306
Cows, Feeding Grain to,                                    110-113
 ”    Feeding in Winter for Manure,                            256
Crops Best to Apply Manure to,                                 265
  ”   How to Get Larger,                                     28-36
  ”   Raised and Sold from the Farm,                            27
  ”   Rotation of,                                         116-168
  ”   We Must Raise Larger per Acre,                           266
  ”   Why so Poor,                                              28

Dairy Farms, Bone-dust on,                                     315 Drainage from Barn-yard,
306 Dry Earth for Pig Pens,                                        304

Earth-closet Manure,                                           310
  ”     ”      ”     on Grass,                                 225

Fallow, Fall,                                                   12
  ”     for Wheat, How to--Mr. Lawes’ Experiments,              35
  ”     Summer, for Wheat,                                   15-34
Farm Dairy, Receipts and Expenses of,                          109
  ”  Hon. George Geddes’,                                      119
  ”  Hon. Joseph Shull’s,                                      109
  ”  John Johnston’s,                                    76-81-120
  ”  Mr. Dewey’s,                                               39
  ”  Mr. Joseph O. Sheldon’s,                                   15
  ”  to Restore a Worn Out,                                     37
Farming, a Poor Business,                                        9
  ”      Difference Between High and Good,                      11
  ”      Faith in Good,                                         14
  ”      Good Does Not Lead to Over Production,                 14
  ”      Slow Work,                                             17
Fermenting Manure to Kill Weed-Seeds,                           97
Fish as Manure,                                                347
Food, Nothing Added to it by the Animal,                        42

Gardens, Manure for Private,                                   296
Geddes, Hon. George,                                        17-117
Grains, Malt, English and German,                               47
Grass a Saving’s Bank,                                          41
  ”   Importance of Rich,                                      113
  ”   Manure for,                                              120
Guano as a Top-dressing for Wheat,                             270
  ”   for Barley,                                              240
  ”   for Oats,                                                253
  ”   for Peas,                                                 17
  ”   for Potatoes,                                        255-258
  ”   on Wheat,                                        120-180-184
  ”   Peruvian, Composition of,                                311
  ”      ”      for Onions,                                    294
  ”      ”      Price and Composition of Now
                    and 30 Y’rs Ago,                           327
  ”      ”      Rectified for Turnips,                         286
  ”      ”      What it is,                                    311
Gypsum,                                                104-116-126
  ”     for Oats,                                              254
  ”     for Peas,                                               17
  ”     for Potatoes,                                      255-259

Harison, T. L., Letter from,                                   115
Hay, Best Manure for,                                          274
 ”   Plant-food in,                                            101
Heacock, Joseph, Letter from,                                  348
Henderson, Peter, Letter from,                                 344
Hen Manure,                                             43-104-301
 ”    ”     for Potatoes,                                      255
High Farming,                                                   12
  ”     ”     versus Good Farming,                              11
Hops, Manure for,                                              274
Horse-manure, Composition of,                                  306
Hot-beds, Manure for,                                          297
Human Excrements, Composition of,                              308

Indian Corn. See Corn. Irrigation on Market Gardens,                                  295

Jessup, Edward, Letter from,                                   342 Johnson, Prof. S. W., on
the Value of Fertilizers,             324

Lawes’ and Gilbert’s Experiments on Barley,                    227
Lawes’ and Gilbert’s Experiments on Oats,                      252
Lawes’ and Gilbert’s Experiments on Permanent Meadows,         271
Lawes’ and Gilbert’s Experiments on the Amount
    of Excrements Voided by Man,                               309
Lawes’ and Gilbert’s Experiments on Sugar beets
    and Mangel-wurzels,                                        288
Lawes’ and Gilbert’s Experiments on Wheat,                     170
Lawes’ and Gilbert’s Experiments,
    Potash Beneficial for Barley,                              329
Lawes’ Table, Showing Composition and Value of Foods,           45
Lettuce, Manure for,                                           289
  ”      Superphosphate for,                               290-293
Lewis, Hon. Harris, Letter from,                               103
Liebig’s Special Manures,                                      321
Lime as Manure,                                                215
  ”  Beneficial Effect of for Thirty Years,                    216
  ”  Changes the Chemical and Physical Character of the Soil,  224
  ”  Composting with Old Sods,                                 224
  ”  for Cabbage,                                              292
  ”  Hastens the Maturity of the Crop,                         222
  ”  Impoverishes the Soil,                                    222
  ”  in Connecticut,                                           224
  ”  in Delaware,                                              223
  ”  in New Jersey,                                            223
  ”  in Pennsylvania,                                          224
  ”  Mixed with Barn-yard Manure,                              222
  ”  on Grass Land,                                            223
  ”  on Lime-stone Land,                                       217
  ”  Quantity per Acre,                                        216
  ”  Sets Free Ammonia in the Soil,                            221
  ”  Silicate Absorbs Ammonia from Atmosphere,                 219
  ”  When to Apply,                                            223
  ”  Why Beneficial,                                           220
Liquid Manure,                                                 306
Lowland, Draining,                                              30

Malt-combs,                                                     46
Mangel-wurzels for Manure,                                      48
  ”      ”     Manure for,                             103-286-288
  ”      ”     Yield per Acre,                                  11
Manure Absorbing Liquid,                                       115
  ”    Amount from Feed and Bedding,                            78
  ”    Amount Made by a Horse,                              50-346
  ”      ”    Made by Horses, Cows, Sheep, and Pigs,            51
  ”    Amount Made on a 250-acre Farm,                         257
  ”    Amount of Rain Required to Dissolve,                    267
  ”    Amount of Straw in Horse,                               346
  ”    and Rotation of Crops,                                  246
  ”    Applying Artificial,                                    312
  ”    Applying Near the Surface,                              267
  ”    Applying on the Surface,                                173
  ”    as Top-dressing,                                        269
  ”    Barn-yard for Barley,                                   240
  ”    Barn-yard vs. Artificial for Indian Corn,               284
  ”    Basin for,                                               92
  ”    Best for Hay,                                           274
  ”    Bone-dust,                                          314-316
  ”    Brings in Red Clover,                                    82
  ”    Buying,                                                 306
  ”    Buying by Measure or Weight,                            305
  ”    Buying by the Load or Ton,                              306
  ”    Cellar,                                                 114
  ”    Cheapest a Farmer Can Use,                              127
  ”    Clover as,                                          119-122
  ”    Clover-seed as,                                         127
  ”    Comes from the Land,                                     42
  ”    Common Salt as,                                         200
  ”    Composition of Fresh Barnyard,                           51
  ”    Composition of from Different Animals,                  306
  ”    Composition of Heap at Different Periods,                57
  ”    Corn-meal for,                                          185
  ”    Cost of Hauling,                                        342
  ”    Cost of Loading and Drawing,                             77
  ”    Cow,                                                 87-100
  ”    Dairy-farm, How to Save and Apply,                      114
  ”    Dr. Vœlcker’s Experiments on,                            51
  ”    Drawing Out to the Field,                                89
  ”    English Plan of Keeping,                                 69
  ”    Equivalent to Water,                                    296
  ”    Farm-yard for Potatoes,                                 261
  ”    Fermenting in Winter,                              85-92-93
  ”    Fermenting, Shrinkage in,                               116
  ”    Fire-fang,                                            84-98
  ”    Fish, as, on Long Island,                               347
  ”    Foods which Make Rich,                                   45
  ”    for Cabbage, Parsnips, Onions, Carrots, Lettuce, etc,   289
  ”    for Corn,                                                80
  ”    for Grass,                                               82
  ”    for Hops,                                               274
  ”    for Hot-beds,                                           297
  ”    for Indian Corn,                                        275
  ”    for Mangel-wurzels and Sugar-beets,                     287
  ”    for Market Gardens,                                     294
  ”    for Oats,                                               252
  ”    for Potatoes,                                           255
  ”    for Seed-growing Farms,                                 296
  ”    for Sorghum or Chinese Sugar-cane,                      283
  ”    for Tobacco,                                            275
  ”    for Turnips,                                        285-322
  ”    for Wheat,                                              167
  ”    from Cows,                                              302
  ”    from Earth-closet,                                      310
  ”    from Oxen,                                              303
  ”    from Pigs, Mr. Lawes’ Experiments,                      301
  ”    from Sheep,                                             303
  ”    Grain Farms, Management of,                             117
  ”    Guano, Price of Now and Thirty Years Ago,               328
  ”    Guano, Rectified Peruvian,                              319
  ”    Gypsum and Clover as,                                   125
  ”    Heap, Changes in,                                        67
  ”      ”   Fermenting,                                        38
  ”      ”   in Winter,                                         84
  ”      ”   Piling in Field,                             88-89-90
  ”      ”   Turning,                                           88
  ”    Hen,                                             43-104-301
  ”    Horse,                                                32-86
  ”    Horse and Farm-yard,                                     50
  ”    How and When it Should be Applied,                      267
  ”    How John Johnston Manages it,                            76
  ”    How Made and Used in  Maryland,                         349
  ”    How the Deacon Makes it,                                 74
  ”    How to Make,                                             41
  ”    How to Make More,                                       256
  ”    How to Make More and Better on Dairy Farms,             105
  ”    How to Make Poor, Rich,                             274-293
  ”    How to Make Richer,                                     257
  ”    How Much it Shrinks by Fermentation,                    342
  ”    How Much Nitrogen in a Load of,                         306
  ”    in Kansas,                                              340
  ”    in Philadelphia, Interesting Facts,                     338
  ”    Keeping Under Cover,                                     59
  ”    Lime as,                                                215
  ”    Liquid,                                                 306
  ”    Management of in Canada,                                335
  ”    Mr. Lawes’ Experiments with,                             95
  ”    Loss from Leaching,                                      99
  ”    Management of,                                           94
  ”    Market Value of,                                        104
  ”    Mixed with Lime,                                        222
  ”    Natural,                                                 23
  ”    Night soil as,                                          308
  ”    Nitrate of Soda as,                                     134
  ”    Not Available,                                           95
  ”    on Dairy Farm,                                          101
  ”    on Permanent Meadows and Pastures,                      271
  ”    Preserved by the Soil,                                  177
  ”    Pigs’,                                                   86
  ”    Piling,                                                 116
  ”    Potash as,                                              329
  ”    Price of in Boston,                                     344
  ”      ”     ”   Maryland,                                   339
  ”      ”     ”   New Haven,                                  341
  ”      ”     ”   New York,                                   334
  ”      ”   per Horse in New York,                            336
  ”    Quantity Made on a Farm,                                 12
  ”    Quantity of Used on Long Island.
           Interesting Statistics,                             336
  ”    Reduced by Fermentation,                                297
  ”    Richer in Plant-food than the Food
           from which it is Derived,                           301
  ”    Sea-weed as,                                            337
  ”    Sheep,                                                   86
  ”    Should be Broken Up Fine,                               268
  ”    Soluble Phosphates in,                                   72
  ”    Special,                                            140-320
  ”    Specific Gravity of from Different Animals,             305
  ”    Spread in Open Yard,                                     63
  ”    Stable, Management,                                     333
  ”    Straw and Chaff as,                                     200
  ”    Superphosphate, How Made,                               317
  ”    Swamp-Muck as,                                           29
  ”    Tank,                                                   115
  ”    the Author’s Plan of Managing,                           83
  ”    Tillage as,                                      32-121-225
  ”    Top-dressing for Wheat in Kansas,                       350
  ”     ”     ”     on Growing Crops,                          343
  ”    to What Crops Should it be Applied,                     265
  ”    Value of,                                                78
  ”    Value of Depends on the Food, Not on the Animal,         43
  ”    Value of Straw as,                                      123
  ”    Water in,                                               124
  ”    Weeds as,                                                24
  ”    Weight of,                                          343-350
  ”    Well-rotted, Composition of,                             65
  ”    Well-rotted, Loss  from Leaching,                        65
  ”    What is it?,                                          19-22
  ”    Why Do We Ferment?,                                      94
Market Gardens, Irrigation in,                                 295
  ”       ”     Manure for,                                    294
  ”       ”     Pig-manure on,                                 295
Meadows, Manure for,                                           271

Night soil,                                                225-308
Nitrate of Potash,                                             312
Nitrate of Soda,                                               134
   ”    ”  Acts Quicker than Ammonia,                          313
   ”    ”  as a Top-dressing for Wheat,                        270
   ”    ”  Composition of,                                     312
   ”    ”  for Apple Trees,                                    314
   ”    ”  for Barley,                                         243
   ”    ”  for Oats,                                           252
   ”    ”  for Onions,                                         294
   ”    ”  for Sugar-Beets,                                    289
   ”    ”  for Wheat,                                          159
   ”    ”  How to Apply,                                       312
Nitric Acid,                                                   341
Nitrogen, Amount per Acre in the Soil,                      28-162
  ”       as Manure,                                            28
  ”       in Soils,                                106-226-336-341
  ”       Makes Poor Manure Rich,                              246
Nurserymen, Manure for,                                        297

Oats, Experiments on in Virginia,                              253
  ”   Experiments on at Moreton Farm,                          254
  ”   Lawes’ and Gilbert’s Experiments on,                     252
  ”   Manures for,                                             252
Oil-cake for Sheep,                                             76
Onions, Manure for,                                            294

Peas for Pigs,                                                  17
Pea-straw for Manure,                                           48
Peat, Composition of,                                           31
Phosphates,                                                     27
  ”         Exhaustion of on Dairy Farms,                      101
  ”         Soluble in Barn-yard Manure,                        72
Phosphoric Acid in Soils,                                  106-226
    ”       ”   per Acre in Soils,                             162
    ”       ”   Retained by the Soil,                          219
    ”       ”   Removed from the Farm by Hay,
                    and by Milch Cows,                         316
Pig Manure,                                                  43-86
 ”    ”     Composition of,                                    306
 ”    ”     for Cabbage,                                       302
Pigs as Manure-Makers for Market Gardeners,                    295
Pigs’ Bedding,                                                  31
  ”   for Enriching Pasture-Land,                              304
  ”   How to Save Manure from,                                 304
  ”   Manure from,                                         301-304
Piling Manure,                                                  97
Plant-food,                                                 21-105
  ”    ”    Amount of in an Acre,                            24-39
  ”    ”    in New and Cultivated Land,                         39
Plaster for Indian Corn,                                       277
Plowing in the Fall,                                            17
Potash, Amount of in the Soil,                              25-329
  ”     as Manure,                                             329
  ”     as Manure for Wheat,                                   215
  ”     for Cabbages,                                          292
  ”     for Potatoes,                                      255-260
  ”     for Potatoes and Root-Crops,                           330
  ”     How to Ascertain when the Soil Needs,                  330
  ”     in Nitrate of Potash,                                  314
  ”     Not a Special Manure for Turnips,                      322
  ”     on Grass Land,                                         273
  ”     our Soils not so likely to be Deficient in,
            as of Nitrogen and Phosphoric Acid,                330
  ”     Retained by the Soil,                                  219
  ”     Value of in Artificial Manures,                        326
Potatoes, after Root-Crops,                                    287
   ”      Ammonia for,                                         261
   ”      Cost of Raising,                                      10
   ”      Experiments on at Moreton Farm,                      259
   ”      for Manure,                                           48
   ”      How to Raise a Large Crop,                           255
   ”      Manures for,                                         255
   ”      Mr. Hunter’s Experiments on in England,              260
   ”      on Rich Land,                                        263
   ”      Profits of Using Artificial Manures on,              263
   ”      Will Manure Injure, Quality of,                      264

Rape-cake,                                                      46
  ”    ”   as Manure for Hops,                                 274
Roots, Amount of Left in Soil by Different Crops,              164
Root-crops,                                                     17
Rotation of Crops and Manures,                                 246
Rushmore, J. H., Letter from,                                  345
Routzahn, H. L., Letter from,                                  349

Salt as a Manure for Wheat,                                    270
  ”  Common as Manure for Wheat,                               200
  ”  for Mangel-wurzels,                                       104
Saw-dust for Bedding,                                          103
Season, a Poor, Profitable for Good Farmers,                   213
  ”     and Manure for Oats,                                   253
  ”     Influence of on the Growth of Wheat,                   210
  ”     Profit in Raising Oats in a Poor,                      253
  ”     Profit in Raising Barley in a Poor,                    243
Seasons, Influence on Crops,                                    21
Seed Growers, Manures for,                                     296
Sewage,                                                        308
Sheep-Manure,                                          303-333-339
  ”     ”     Composition of,                                  306
  ”   vs. Oxen as Manure Makers,                               303
Shelton, Prof. E. M., Letter from,                             350
Soil, Composition of,                                      144-150
  ”   Exhaustion of,                                     23-27-332
  ”   from Earth-closet,                                       225
  ”   Nitrogen and Phosphoric Acid in,                         226
  ”   Plant-food in,                                           105
  ”   Weight of per Acre,                                      221
Soils Absorb Ammonia from Atmosphere,                          219
  ”   Absorptive Powers of,                                    217
Sorghum, Manures for,                                          283
Special Manures,                                               320
Straw,                                                          26
  ”    Amount of Manure from,                                  124
  ”    and Chaff for Manure,                                   200
  ”    for Manures,                                             48
  ”    on Grain Farms,                                         118
  ”    Selling,                                                123
Sturtevant, Dr. E. L., Letter from,                            344
Superphosphate,                                                116
      ”         for Barley,                                    241
      ”         for Indian Corn,                               279
      ”         for Potatoes,                                  259
      ”         for Private Gardens,                           296
      ”         for Turnips,                               285-322
      ”         for Wheat,                                 168-169
      ”         from Bones, Composition of,                    319
      ”         from Mineral Phosphates,                       320
      ”         How Applied,                                   320
      ”         on Dairy Farms,                                315
      ”         on Grass Land,                                 273
      ”         Value of as Compared with Bone-Dust,           319
      ”         What Crops Best for,                           243
Superphospate of Lime, Doctor Tells How it is Made,            317
Superphosphate of Lime, When First Made in the United States,  324
Surface Application of Manure,                              70-268
Swamp-muck,                                                     29
  ”    ”    Composition of,                                     31
Swine, see Pigs.

Thomas, J. J., Remarks on the Application of Manures,          269
Tillage is Manure,                                  32-121-163-225
Tobacco, Manure for,                                           275
Top dressing with Manure,                                      269
Turnips, Do They Absorb Nitrogen from the Atmosphere,          250
   ”     Impoverish the Soil More than Grain,                  250
   ”     Manure for,                                           285
   ”     and Wheat, Special Manures for,                       321

Urine from Farm Animals Richer than Human,                     309
  ”   vs. Solid Manure,                                        294

Valuation of Fertilizers,                                      324

Water, Amount Given Off by Plants During Their Growth,         131
Water Equivalent to Manure,                                    296
Weeds,                                                   15-41-189
Weed-seeds in Manure,                                           97
Weld, Col. M. C., Letter from,                                 344
Wheat, Ammonia for,                                            192
  ”    Artificial Manures for
           Should be Drilled in with Seed,                 168-169
  ”    Common Salt as Manure for,                              200
  ”    Crop, Composition of,                        26-129-138-340
  ”    Effect of Manure on, in Poor Season,                    213
  ”    Influence of Season on,                                 210
  ”    is it Deteriorating? No
other attempt was made to regularize quotation format or punctuation.

The Deacon, the Doctor, the Squire, Charlie
  the name is spelled “Charley” everywhere else
it would seem desirable to apply the superphosphate
  text reads “superhosphate”
wherever agri-culture is practised.
  so in original
Turning over, and fining a manure-heap
  word “fining” probably technical term, not error
said the Doctor, “but value.” “Suppose, Deacon,” said he
  quotation marks as in original (same speaker)
carbonaceous matter and water, of little or no value?”
  text has question mark after close quote
It would be a very exceptional case.
  word “It” illegible
“7.
6b |  .. | *00 | 200
  first digit of number is missing: probably “300”
Even gold may be bought too dear.
  text reads “to dear”
The value of quick-lime as a manure
  anomalous hyphen in original
Table IV.--Offal Corn per Acre--lbs.
1 N.   |}(94){|283 ‖109 ...
2 N.   |}    {|228 ‖286 ...
  double lines as printed: should be one year earlier? ]
cotton-seed-cake
  hyphenation as in original (two occurrences);
  similarly “Beech-nut-cake”, “Palm-oil-cake” etc.
fish-scrap, woollen-rags, Peruvian guano
  hyphens as in original
the plants / came up first, and exhibited a healthy, dark-green
  text reads “exhibted”
for sugar-making purposes, or for fodder
  text reads “foddder”
ruta-bagas
  hyphenation is standard for this text
Isn’t it paying a little too much for the whistle?
  text reads “Is’nt”
And this fact ought to be understood
  text reads “An  this fact” with invisible “d”
The plaintain, which I believe is sometimes sown
  spelling “plaintain” as in original
... his book on Manure, “Praktische Düngerlehre,” Dr. Emil Wolff
  text reads “Wollf”

[Index]
  Note that the Index uses short dashes where commas would be expected
Crops Best to Apply Manure to
  “Crops” entries printed out of sequence, between “Corn” and “Cotton”
Farm Dairy // Mr. Joseph O. Sheldon’s
  name in body text is James O. Sheldon

