THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOLUME XII.

M DCCC LXIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.                                                  ISSUE.

American, An,
  in the House of Lords        Francis Wayland, Jr.      70.

Brothers, The                  Louisa M. Alcott          73.
Burke, Edmund,
  Interesting Manuscripts of   Charles Sumner            71.

Carlyle, Thomas, A Letter to   D.A. Wasson               72.
Civic Banquets                 Nathaniel Hawthorne       70.
Claims, The,
  to Service or Labor          Robert Dale Owen          69.
Continents, The Growth of      Prof. Louis Agassiz       69.
Cuba, The Conquest of          C.C. Hazewell             72.

Deacon's Holocaust, The        J.P. Quincy               72. Debby's Début                
Louisa M. Alcott          70. Délacroix, Eugene              W.J. Stillman             74.
De Quincy, Thomas              Henry M. Alden            71. Doings of the Sunbeam        
O.W. Holmes               69.

English Naval Power and
  English Colonies             C. Reynolds               69.

Fleur-de-Lis, The,
  at Port Royal                F. Parkman                69.
Fleur-de-Lis, The, in Florida  F. Parkman                70.
Freedmen, The, at Port Royal   Edward L. Pierce          71.
French Struggle for Naval and
  Colonial Power, The          G. Reynolds               73.

Gala-Days                      Gail Hamilton             69.
Geological Middle Age, The     Prof. Louis Agassiz       70.
Glacier, Internal Structure
  and Progression of the       Prof. Louis Agassiz       74.
Glaciers, The Formation of     Prof. Louis Agassiz       73.
Great Air-Engine, The          Author of "Margret Howth" 74.
Great Instrument, The          O.W. Holmes               73.

Harvard's Heroes               Walter Mitchell           71.

Lamb's, Charles,
  Uncollected Writings         J.E. Babson               72.
Legend, The,
  of Monte del Diablo          F.B. Harte                72.
Letter to a Peace Democrat     Francis Wayland, Jr       74.
Life without Principle         H.D. Thoreau              72.
Literary Life in Paris                                     74.
Longfellow                     George W. Curtis          74.

Man without a Country, The     Edward E. Hale            74.
Mather Safe, The               J.P. Quincy               71.
Monograph from
  an Old Note-Book             Charles Sumner            73.
Mr. Martin's Disappointments                               71.
Mrs. Lewis                     Mrs. C.A. Hopkinson       71, 72, 73.
Musician, The                  Miss L. Hale              69.

Night and Moonlight            H.D. Thoreau              73.

Our Domestic Relations         Charles Sumner            72.
Our General                                                69.
Outside Glimpses of
  English Poverty              Nathaniel Hawthorne       69.

Paul Blecker                   Author of "Margret Howth" 69.
Political Problems and
  Conditions of Peace          Woodbury Davis            70.
Puritan Minister, The          T.W. Higginson            71.

Sam Adams Regiments, The,
  in the Town of Boston        Richard Frothingham       73.
Schumann, Robert and Clara     M.D. Conway               71.
Side-Glances at
  Harvard Class-Day            Gail Hamilton             70.
Something about Bridges        H.T. Tuckerman            74.
Spaniard, The,
  and the Heretic              F. Parkman                73.
Sympathetic Lying                                          74.

Tertiary Age, The, and
  its Characteristic Animals   Prof. Louis Agassiz       71.

United States Armory, The      G.B. Prescott             72.

Wet-Weather Work               Donald G. Mitchell        70, 73. Who is Roebuck?          
W.J. Austin               71. Winthrop's, Theodore, Writings Charles Nordhoff          70.

POETRY.

Andante                        A. West                   73.

Barbara Frietchie              John G. Whittier          72. Birds of Killingworth, The   
H.W. Longfellow           74. By the River                   J.T. Trowbridge           69.

Equinoctial                    Mrs. A.D.T. Whitney       72.

Her Epitaph                    T.W. Parsons              69. Hilary                       
Lucy Larcom               70.

In an Attic                    Mrs. Paul Akers           74.

King's Wine, The               T.B. Aldrich              73.

Love's Challenge               T.W. Parsons              70. Loyal Woman's No, A          
74. Lyrics of the Street           Mrs. Julia Ward Howe      71.

My Palace                      A. West                   72.

New Sangreal, The              Rose Terry                71. No and Yes                   
Theodore Tilton           71.

Pewee, The                     J.T. Trowbridge           72.

Seaward                        Mrs. A.D.T. Whitney       70. Something Left Undone        
H.W. Longfellow           73.

Thoreau's Flute                Louisa M. Alcott          71.
Two Scenes from
  the Life of Blondel          James Russell Lowell      73.

Voluntaries                    R.W. Emerson              72.

Weariness                      H.W. Longfellow           73. White-Throated Sparrow, The  
A. West                   70. Wraith of Odin, The            H.W. Longfellow           69.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Cullum's Systems of Military Bridges                       74.

Dicey's Six Months in the Federal States                   71.

Fuller's Good Thoughts in Bad Times                        74.

Hospital Transports                                        71. Howitt's History of the Supernatural
71.

Kemble's, Frances Anne, Journal of a Residence on
  a Georgian Plantation                                    70.
Kirk's History of Charles the Bold                         74.

Livermore's Historical Research                            70.
Long's Translation of the Thoughts of
  the Emperor Marcus Aurelius Antoninus                    72.
Lyell's Geological Evidences of the Antiquity of Man       69.

Mitchell's Astronomy of the Bible                          69.

Phillips's, Wendell, Speeches, Lectures, and Letters       74.

Richter's Levana                                           72.

Spurgeon's Sermons                                         69. Substance and Shadow       
69.

Ticknor's History of Spanish Literature                    73.

Washburn on the American Law of Easements and Servitudes   69.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS                               69, 70, 73, 74.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOINGS OF THE SUNBEAM.

Few of those who seek a photographer's establishment to have their portraits taken know at
all into what a vast branch of commerce this business of sun-picturing has grown. We took occasion
lately to visit one of the principal establishments in the country, that of Messrs. E. & H.T.
Anthony, in Broadway, New York. We had made the acquaintance of these gentlemen through the
remarkable instantaneous stereoscopic views published by them, and of which we spoke in a former
article in terms which some might think extravagant. Our unsolicited commendation of these
marvellous pictures insured us a more than polite reception. Every detail of the branches of
the photographic business to which they are more especially devoted was freely shown us, and
"No Admittance" over the doors of their inmost sanctuaries came to mean for us, "Walk in; you
are heartily welcome."

We should be glad to tell our readers of all that we saw in the two establishments of theirs
which we visited, but this would take the whole space which we must distribute among several
subdivisions of a subject that offers many points of interest. We must confine ourselves to
a few glimpses and sketches.

       *       *       *       *       *

The guests of the neighboring hotels, as they dally with their morning's omelet, little imagine
what varied uses come out of the shells which furnished them their anticipatory repast of disappointed
chickens. If they had visited Mr. Anthony's upper rooms, they would have seen a row of young
women before certain broad, shallow pans filled with the glairy albumen which once enveloped
those potential fowls.

The one next us takes a large sheet of photographic paper, (a paper made in Europe for this
special purpose, very thin, smooth, and compact,) and floats it evenly on the surface of the
albumen. Presently she lifts it very carefully by the turned-up corners and hangs it bias,
as a seamstress might say, that is, cornerwise, on a string, to dry. This "albumenized" paper
is sold most extensively to photographers, who find it cheaper to buy than to prepare it. It
keeps for a long time uninjured, and is "sensitized" when wanted, as we shall see by-and-by.

The amount of photographic paper which is annually imported from France and Germany has been
estimated at fifteen thousand reams. Ten thousand native partlets--

    "Sic vos non vobis nidificatis, aves"--

cackle over the promise of their inchoate offspring, doomed to perish unfeathered, before fate
has decided whether they shall cluck or crow, for the sole use of the minions of the sun and
the feeders of the caravanseras.

In another portion of the same establishment are great collections of the chemical substances
used in photography. To give an idea of the scale on which these are required, we may state
that the estimate of the annual consumption of the precious metals for photographic purposes,
in this country, is set down at ten tons for silver and half a ton for gold. Vast quantities
of the hyposulphite of soda, which, we shall see, plays an important part in the process of
preparing the negative plate and finishing the positive print, are also demanded.

In another building, provided with steam power, which performs much of the labor, is carried
on the great work of manufacturing photographic albums, cases for portraits, parts of cameras,
and of printing pictures from negatives. Many of these branches of work are very interesting.
The luxurious album, embossed, clasped, gilded, resplendent as a tropical butterfly, goes through
as many transformations as a "purple emperor". It begins a pasteboard larva, is swathed and
pressed and glued into the condition of a chrysalis, and at last alights on the centre table
gorgeous in gold and velvet, the perfect imago. The cases for portraits are made in lengths,
and cut up, somewhat as they say ships are built in Maine, a mile at a time, to be afterwards
sawed across so as to become sloops, schooners, or such other sized craft as may happen to
be wanted.

Each single process in the manufacture of elaborate products of skill often times seems and
is very simple. The workmen in large establishments, where labor is greatly subdivided, become
wonderfully adroit in doing a fraction of something. They always remind us of the Chinese or
the old Egyptians. A young person who mounts photographs on cards all day long confessed to
having never, or almost never, seen a negative developed, though standing at the time within
a few feet of the dark closet where the process was going on all day long. One forlorn individual
will perhaps pass his days in the single work of cleaning the glass plates for negatives. Almost
at his elbow is a toning bath, but he would think it a good joke, if you asked him whether
a picture had lain long enough in the solution of gold or hyposulphite.

We always take a glance at the literature which is certain to adorn the walls in the neighborhood
of each operative's bench or place for work. Our friends in the manufactory we are speaking
of were not wanting in this respect. One of the girls had pasted on the wall before her,

    "Kind words can never die."

It would not have been easy to give her a harsh one after reading her chosen maxim. "The Moment
of Parting" was twice noticed. "The Haunted Spring", "Dearest May", "The Bony Boat", "Yankee
Girls", "Yankee Ship and Yankee Crew", "My Country, 'tis of thee", and--was there ever anybody
that ever broke up prose into lengths who would not look to see if there were not a copy of
some performance of his own on the wall he was examining, if he were exploring the inner chamber
of a freshly opened pyramid?

We left the great manufacturing establishment of the Messrs. Anthony, more than ever impressed
with the vast accession of happiness which has come to mankind through this art, which has
spread itself as widely as civilization. The photographer can procure every article needed
for his work at moderate cost and in quantities suited to his wants. His prices have consequently
come down to such a point that pauperism itself need hardly shrink from the outlay required
for a family portrait-gallery. The "tin-types," as the small miniatures are called,--stanno-types
would be the proper name,--are furnished at the rate of two cents each! A portrait such as
Isabey could not paint for a Marshal of France,--a likeness such as Malbone could not make
of a President's Lady, to be had for two coppers,--a dozen chefs d'oeuvre for a quarter of
a dollar!

       *       *       *       *       *

We had been for a long time meditating a devotion of a part of what is left of our more or
less youthful energies to acquiring practical knowledge of the photographic art. The auspicious
moment came at last, and we entered ourselves as the temporary apprentice of Mr. J.W. Black
of this city, well known as a most skilful photographer and a friendly assistant of beginners
in the art.

We consider ourselves at this present time competent to set up a photographic ambulance or
to hang out a sign in any modest country town. We should, no doubt, over-time and under-tone,
and otherwise wrong the countenances of some of our sitters; but we should get the knack in
a week or two, and if Baron Wenzel owned to having spoiled a hat-full of eyes before he had
fairly learned how to operate for cataract, we need not think too much of libelling a few village
physiognomies before considering ourselves fit to take the minister and his deacons. After
years of practice there is always something to learn, but every one is surprised to find how
little time is required for the acquisition of skill enough to make a passable negative and
print a tolerable picture. We could not help learning, with the aid that was afforded us by
Mr. Black and his assistants, who were all so very courteous and pleasant, that, as a token
of gratitude, we offered to take photographs of any of them who would sit to us for that purpose.
Every stage of the process, from preparing a plate to mounting a finished sun-print, we have
taught our hands to perform, and can therefore speak with a certain authority to those who
wish to learn the way of working with the sunbeam.

Notwithstanding the fact that the process of making a photographic picture is detailed in a
great many books,--nay, although we have given a brief account of the principal stages of it
in one of our former articles, we are going to take the reader into the sanctuary of the art
with us, and ask him to assist, in the French sense of the word, while we make a photograph,--say,
rather, while the mysterious forces which we place in condition to act work that miracle for us.

We are in a room lighted through a roof of ground glass, its walls covered with blue paper
to avoid reflection. A camera mounted on an adjustable stand is before us. We will fasten this
picture, which we are going to copy, against the wall. Now we will place the camera opposite
to it, and bring it into focus so as to give a clear image on the square of ground glass in
the interior of the instrument. If the image is too large, we push the camera back; if too
small, push it up towards the picture and focus again. The image is wrong side up, as we see;
but if we take the trouble to reverse the picture we are copying, it will appear in its proper
position in the camera. Having got an image of the right size, and perfectly sharp, we will
prepare a sensitive plate, which shall be placed exactly where the ground glass now is, so
that this same image shall be printed on it.

For this purpose we must quit the warm precincts of the cheerful day, and go into the narrow
den where the deeds of darkness are done. Its dimensions are of the smallest, and its aspect
of the rudest. A feeble yellow flame from a gas-light is all that illuminates it. All round
us are troughs and bottles and water-pipes, and ill-conditioned utensils of various kinds.
Everything is blackened with nitrate of silver; every form of spot, of streak, of splash, of
spatter, of stain, is to be seen upon the floor, the walls, the shelves, the vessels. Leave
all linen behind you, ye who enter here, or at least protect it at every exposed point. Cover
your hands in gauntlets of India-rubber, if you would not utter Lady Macbeth's soliloque over
them when they come to the light of day. Defend the nether garments with overalls, such as
plain artisans are wont to wear. Button the ancient coat over the candid shirt-front, and hold
up the retracted wristbands by elastic bands around the shirt-sleeve above the elbow. Conscience
and nitrate of silver are telltales that never forget any tampering with them, and the broader
the light the darker their record. Now to our work.

Here is a square of crown glass three-fourths as large as a page of the "Atlantic Monthly,"
if you happen to know that periodical. Let us brush it carefully, that its surface may be free
from dust. Now we take hold of it by the upper left-hand corner and pour some of this thin
syrup-like fluid upon it, inclining the plate gently from side to side, so that it may spread
evenly over the surface, and let the superfluous fluid drain back from the right hand upper
corner into the bottle. We keep the plate rocking from side to side, so as to prevent the fluid
running in lines, as it has a tendency to do. The neglect of this precaution is evident in
some otherwise excellent photographs; we notice it, for instance, in Frith's Abou Simbel, No.
1, the magnificent rock-temple façade. In less than a minute the syrupy fluid has dried, and
appears like a film of transparent varnish on the glass plate. We now place it on a flat double
hook of gutta percha and lower it gently into the nitrate-of-silver bath. As it must remain
there three or four minutes, we will pass away the time in explaining what has been already done.

The syrupy fluid was iodized collodion. This is made by dissolving gun-cotton in ether with
alcohol, and adding some iodide of ammonium. When a thin layer of this fluid is poured on the
glass plate, the ether and alcohol evaporate very speedily, and leave a closely adherent film
of organic matter derived from the cotton, and containing the iodide of ammonium. We have plunged
this into the bath, which contains chiefly nitrate of silver, but also some iodide of silver,--knowing
that a decomposition will take place, in consequence of which the iodide of ammonium will become
changed to the iodide of silver, which will now fill the pores of the collodion film. The iodide
of silver is eminently sensitive to light. The use of the collodion is to furnish a delicate,
homogeneous, adhesive, colorless layer in which the iodide may be deposited. Its organic nature
may favor the action of light upon the iodide of silver.

While we have been talking and waiting, the process just described has been going on, and we
are now ready to take the glass plate out of the nitrate-of-silver bath. It is wholly changed
in aspect. The film has become in appearance like a boiled white of egg, so that the glass
produces rather the effect of porcelain, as we look at it. Open no door now! Let in no glimpse
of day, or the charm is broken in an instant! No Sultana was ever veiled from the light of
heaven as this milky tablet we hold must be. But we must carry it to the camera which stands
waiting for it in the blaze of high noon. To do this we first carefully place it in this narrow
case, called a shield, where it lies safe in utter darkness. We now carry it to the camera,
and, having removed the ground glass on which the camera-picture had been brought to an exact
focus, we drop the shield containing the sensitive plate into the groove the glass occupied.
Then we pull out a slide, as the blanket is taken from a horse before he starts. There is nothing
now but to remove the brass cap from the lens. That is giving the word Go! It is a tremulous
moment for the beginner.

As we lift the brass cap, we begin to count seconds,--by a watch, if we are naturally unrhythmical,--by
the pulsations in our souls, if we have an intellectual pendulum and escapement. Most persons
can keep tolerably even time with a second-hand while it is traversing its circle. The light
is pretty good at this time, and we count only as far as thirty, when we cover the lens again
with the cap.

Such a ghost we hold imprisoned in the shield we have just brought from the camera. We open
it and find our milky-surfaced glass plate looking exactly as it did when we placed it in the
shield. No eye, no microscope, can detect a trace of change in the white film that is spread
over it. And yet there is a potential image in it,--a latent soul, which will presently appear
before its judge. This is the Stygian stream,--this solution of proto-sulphate of iron, with
which we will presently flood the white surface.

We pour on the solution. There is no change at first; the fluid flows over the whole surface
as harmless and as useless as if it were water. What if there were no picture there? Stop!
what is that change of color beginning at this edge, and spreading as a blush spreads over
a girl's cheek? It is a border, like that round the picture, and then dawns the outline of
a head, and now the eyes come out from the blank as stars from the empty sky, and the lineaments
define themselves, plainly enough, yet in a strange aspect,--for where there was light in the
picture we have shadow, and where there was shadow we have light. But while we look it seems
to fade again, as if it would disappear. Have no fear of that; it is only deepening its shadows.
Now we place it under the running water which we have always at hand. We hold it up before
the dull-red gas-light, and then we see that every line of the original and the artist's name
are reproduced as sharply as if the fairies had engraved them for us. The picture is perfect
of its kind, only it seems to want a little more force. That we can easily get by the simple
process called "intensifying" or "redeveloping." We mix a solution of nitrate of silver and
of pyro-gallic acid in about equal quantities, and pour it upon the pictured film and back
again into the vessel, repeating this with the same portion of fluid several times. Presently
the fluid grows brownish, and at the same time the whole picture gains the depth of shadow
in its darker parts which we desire. Again we place it under the running water. When it is
well washed, we plunge it into this bath of hyposulphite of soda, which removes all the iodide
of silver, leaving only the dark metal impregnating the film. After it has remained there a
few minutes, we take it out and wash it again as before under the running stream of water.
Then we dry it, and when it is dry, pour varnish over it, dry that, and it is done. This is
a negative,--not a true picture, but a reversed picture, which puts darkness for light and
light for darkness. From this we can take true pictures, or positives.

Let us now proceed to take one of these pictures. In a small room, lighted by a few rays which
filter through a yellow curtain, a youth has been employed all the morning in developing the
sensitive conscience of certain sheets of paper, which came to him from the manufacturer already
glazed by having been floated upon the white of eggs and carefully dried, as previously described.
This "albumenized" paper the youth lays gently and skilfully upon the surface of a solution
of nitrate of silver. When it has floated there a few minutes, he lifts it, lets it drain,
and hangs it by one corner to dry. This "sensitized" paper is served fresh every morning, as
it loses its delicacy by keeping.

We take a piece of this paper of the proper size, and lay it on the varnished or pictured side
of the negative, which is itself laid in a wooden frame, like a picture-frame. Then we place
a thick piece of cloth on the paper. Then we lay a hinged wooden back on the cloth, and by
means of two brass springs press all close together,--the wooden back against the cloth, the
cloth against the paper, the paper against the negative. We turn the frame over and see that
the plain side of the glass negative is clean. And now we step out upon the roof of the house
into the bright sunshine, and lay the frame, with the glass uppermost, in the full blaze of
light. For a very little while we can see the paper darkening through the negative, but presently
it clouds so much that its further changes cannot be recognized. When we think it has darkened
nearly enough, we turn it over, open a part of the hinged back, turn down first a portion of
the thick cloth, and then enough of the paper to see something of the forming picture. If not
printed dark enough as yet, we turn back to their places successively the picture, the cloth,
the opened part of the frame, and lay it again in the sun. It is just like cooking: the sun
is the fire, and the picture is the cake; when it is browned exactly to the right point, we
take it off the fire. A photograph-printer will have fifty or more pictures printing at once,
and he keeps going up and down the line, opening the frames to look and see how they are getting
on. As fast as they are done, he turns them over, back to the sun, and the cooking process
stops at once.

The pictures which have just been printed in the sunshine are of a peculiar purple tint, and
still sensitive to the light, which will first "flatten them out," and finally darken the whole
paper, if they are exposed to it before the series of processes which "fixes" and "tones" them.
They are kept shady, therefore, until a batch is ready to go down to the toning room.

When they reach that part of the establishment, the first thing that is done with them is to
throw them face down upon the surface of a salt bath. Their purple changes at once to a dull
red. They are then washed in clean water for a few minutes, and after that laid, face up, in
a solution of chloride of gold with a salt of soda. Here they must lie for some minutes at
least; for the change, which we can watch by the scanty daylight admitted, goes on slowly.
Gradually they turn to a darker shade; the reddish tint becomes lilac, purple, brown, of somewhat
different tints in different cases. When the process seems to have gone far enough, the picture
is thrown into a bath containing hyposulphite of soda, which dissolves the superfluous, unstable
compounds, and rapidly clears up the lighter portions of the picture. On being removed from
this, it is thoroughly washed, dried, and mounted, by pasting it with starch or dextrine to
a card of the proper size.

The reader who has followed the details of the process may like to know what are the common
difficulties the beginner meets with.

The first is in coating the glass with collodion. It takes some practice to learn to do this
neatly and uniformly.

The second is in timing the immersion in the nitrate-of-silver bath. This is easily overcome;
the glass may be examined by the feeble lamp-light at the end of two or three minutes, and
if the surface looks streaky, replunged in the bath for a minute or two more, or until the
surface looks smooth.

The third is in getting an exact focus in the camera, which wants good eyes, or strong glasses
for poor ones.

The fourth is in timing the exposure. This is the most delicate of all the processes. Experience
alone can teach the time required with different objects in different lights. Here are four
card-portraits from a negative taken from one of Barry's crayon-pictures, illustrating an experiment
which will prove very useful to the beginner. The negative of No. 1 was exposed only two seconds.
The young lady's face is very dusky on a very dusky ground. The lights have hardly come out
at all. No. 2 was exposed five seconds. Undertimed, but much cleared up. No. 3 was exposed
fifteen seconds, about the proper time. It is the best of the series, but the negative ought
to have been intensified. It looks as if Miss E.V. had washed her face since the five-seconds
picture was taken. No. 4 was exposed sixty seconds, that is to say, three or four times too
long. It has a curious resemblance to No. 1, but is less dusky. The contrasts of light and
shade which gave life to No. 3 have disappeared, and the face looks as if a second application
of soap would improve it. A few trials of this kind will teach the eye to recognize the appearances
of under- and over-exposure, so that, if the first negative proves to have been too long or
too short a time in the camera, the proper period of exposure for the next may be pretty easily
determined.

The printing from the negative is less difficult, because we can examine the picture as often
as we choose; but it may be well to undertime and overtime some pictures, for the sake of a
lesson like that taught by the series of pictures from the four negatives.

The only other point likely to prove difficult is the toning in the gold bath. As the picture
can be watched, however, a very little practice will enable us to recognize the shade which
indicates that this part of the process is finished.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have copied a picture, but we can take a portrait from Nature just as easily, except for
a little more trouble in adjusting the position and managing the light. So easy is it to reproduce
the faces that we love to look upon; so simple is that marvellous work by which we preserve
the first smile of infancy and the last look of age: the most precious gift Art ever bestowed
upon love and friendship!

It will be observed that the glass plate, covered with its film of collodion, was removed directly
from the nitrate-of-silver bath to the camera, so as to be exposed to its image while still
wet. It is obvious that this process is one that can hardly be performed conveniently at a
distance from the artist's place of work. Solutions of nitrate of silver are not carried about
and decanted into baths and back again into bottles without tracking their path on persons
and things. The photophobia of the "sensitized" plate, of course, requires a dark apartment
of some kind: commonly a folding tent is made to answer the purpose in photographic excursions.
It becomes, therefore, a serious matter to transport all that is required to make a negative
according to the method described. It has consequently been a great desideratum to find some
way of preparing a sensitive plate which could be dried and laid away, retaining its sensitive
quality for days or weeks until wanted. The artist would then have to take with him nothing
but his camera and his dry sensitive plates. After exposing these in the camera, they would
be kept in dark boxes until he was ready to develop them at leisure on returning to his atelier.

Many "dry methods" have been contrived, of which the tannin process is in most favor. The plate,
after being "sensitized" and washed, is plunged in a bath containing ten grains of tannin to
an ounce of water. It is then dried, and may be kept for a long time without losing its sensitive
quality. It is placed dry in the camera, and developed by wetting it and then pouring over
it a mixture of pyrogallic acid and the solution of nitrate of silver. Amateurs find this the
best way for taking scenery, and produce admirable pictures by it, as we shall mention by-and-by.

       *       *       *       *       *

In our former articles we have spoken principally of stereoscopic pictures. These are still
our chief favorites for scenery, for architectural objects, for almost everything but portraits,--and
even these last acquire a reality in the stereoscope which they can get in no other way. In
this third photographic excursion we must only touch briefly upon the stereograph. Yet we have
something to add to what we said before on this topic.

One of the most interesting accessions to our collection is a series of twelve views, on glass,
of scenes and objects in California, sent us with unprovoked liberality by the artist, Mr.
Watkins. As specimens of art they are admirable, and some of the subjects are among the most
interesting to be found in the whole realm of Nature. Thus, the great tree, the "Grizzly Giant,"
of Mariposa, is shown in two admirable views; the mighty precipice of El Capitan, more than
three thousand feet in precipitous height,--the three conical hill-tops of Yo Semite, taken,
not as they soar into the atmosphere, but as they are reflected in the calm waters below,--these
and others are shown, clear, yet soft, vigorous in the foreground, delicately distinct in the
distance, in a perfection of art which compares with the finest European work.

The "London Stereoscopic Company" has produced some very beautiful paper stereographs, very
dear, but worth their cost, of the Great Exhibition. There is one view, which we are fortunate
enough to possess, that is a marvel of living detail,--one of the series showing the opening
ceremonies. The picture gives principally the musicians. By careful counting, we find there
are six hundred faces to the square inch in the more crowded portion of the scene which the
view embraces,--a part occupied by the female singers. These singers are all clad in white,
and packed with great compression of crinoline,--if that, indeed, were worn on the occasion.
Mere points as their faces seem to the naked eye, the stereoscope, and still more a strong
magnifier, shows them with their mouths all open as they join in the chorus, and with such
distinctness that some of them might readily be recognized by those familiar with their aspect.
This, it is to be remembered, is not a reduced stereograph for the microscope, but a common
one, taken as we see them taken constantly.

We find in the same series several very good views of Gibson's famous colored "Venus," a lady
with a pleasant face and a very pretty pair of shoulders. But the grand "Cleopatra" of our
countryman, Mr. Story, of which we have heard so much, was not to be had,--why not we cannot
say, for a stereograph of it would have had an immense success in America, and doubtless everywhere.

The London Stereoscopic Company has also furnished us with views of Paris, many of them instantaneous,
far in advance of the earlier ones of Parisian origin. Our darling little church of St. Etienne
du Mont, for instance, with its staircase and screen of stone embroidery, its carved oaken
pulpit borne on the back of a carved oaken Samson, its old monuments, its stained windows,
is brought back to us in all its minute detail as we remember it in many a visit made on our
way back from the morning's work at La Pitié to the late breakfast at the Café Procope. Some
of the instantaneous views are of great perfection, and carry us as fairly upon the Boulevards
as Mr. Anthony transports us to Broadway. With the exception of this series, we have found
very few new stereoscopic pictures in the market for the last year or two. This is not so much
owing to the increased expense of importing foreign views as to the greater popularity of card-portraits,
which, as everybody knows, have become the social currency, the sentimental "green-backs" of
civilization, within a very recent period.

We, who have exhausted our terms of admiration in describing the stereoscopic picture, will
not quarrel with the common taste which prefers the card-portrait. The last is the cheapest,
the most portable, requires no machine to look at it with, can be seen by several persons at
the same time,--in short, has all the popular elements. Many care little for the wonders of
the world brought before their eyes by the stereoscope; all love to see the faces of their
friends. Jonathan does not think a great deal of the Venus of Milo, but falls into raptures
over a card-portrait of his Jerusha. So far from finding fault with him, we rejoice rather
that his affections and those of average mortality are better developed than their taste; and
lost as we sometimes are in contemplation of the shadowy masks of ugliness which hang in the
frames of the photographers, as the skins of beasts are stretched upon tanners' fences, we
still feel grateful, when we remember the days of itinerant portrait-painters, that the indignities
of Nature are no longer intensified by the outrages of Art.

The sitters who throng the photographer's establishment are a curious study. They are of all
ages, from the babe in arms to the old wrinkled patriarchs and dames whose smiles have as many
furrows as an ancient elm has rings that count its summers. The sun is a Rembrandt in his way,
and loves to track all the lines in these old splintered faces. A photograph of one of them
is like one of those fossilized sea-beaches where the raindrops have left their marks, and
the shellfish the grooves in which they crawled, and the wading birds the divergent lines of
their foot-prints,--tears, cares, griefs, once vanishing as impressions from the sand, now
fixed as the vestiges in the sand-stone.

Attitudes, dresses, features, hands, feet, betray the social grade of the candidates for portraiture.
The picture tells no lie about them. There is no use in their putting on airs; the make-believe
gentleman and lady cannot look like the genuine article. Mediocrity shows itself for what it
is worth, no matter what temporary name it may have acquired. Ill-temper cannot hide itself
under the simper of assumed amiability. The querulousness of incompetent complaining natures
confesses itself almost as much as in the tones of the voice. The anxiety which strives to
smooth its forehead cannot get rid of the telltale furrow. The weakness which belongs to the
infirm of purpose and vacuous of thought is hardly to be disguised, even though the moustache
is allowed to hide the centre of expression.

All parts of a face doubtless have their fixed relations to each other and to the character
of the person to whom the face belongs. But there is one feature, and especially one part of
that feature, which more than any other facial sign reveals the nature of the individual. The
feature is the mouth, and the portion of it referred to is the corner. A circle of half an
inch radius, having its centre at the junction of the two lips will include the chief focus
of expression.

This will be easily understood, if we reflect that here is the point where more muscles of
expression converge than at any other. From above comes the elevator of the angle of the mouth;
from the region of the cheek-bone slant downwards the two zygomatics, which carry the angle
outwards and upwards; from behind comes the buccinator, or trumpeter's muscle, which simply
widens the mouth by drawing the corners straight outward; from below, the depressor of the
angle; not to add a seventh, sometimes well marked,--the "laughing muscle" of Santorini. Within
the narrow circle where these muscles meet the ring of muscular fibres surrounding the mouth
the battles of the soul record their varying fortunes and results. This is the "noeud vital"--to
borrow Flourens's expression with reference to a nervous centre,--the vital knot of expression.
Here we may read the victories and defeats, the force, the weakness, the hardness, the sweetness
of a character. Here is the nest of that feeble fowl, self-consciousness, whose brood strays
at large over all the features.

If you wish to see the very look your friend wore when his portrait was taken, let not the
finishing artist's pencil intrude within the circle of the vital knot of expression.

We have learned many curious facts from photographic portraits which we were slow to learn
from faces. One is the great number of aspects belonging to each countenance with which we
are familiar. Sometimes, in looking at a portrait, it seems to us that this is just the face
we know, and that it is always thus. But again another view shows us a wholly different aspect,
and yet as absolutely characteristic as the first; and a third and a fourth convince us that
our friend was not one, but many, in outward appearance, as in the mental and emotional shapes
by which his inner nature made itself known to us.

Another point which must have struck everybody who has studied photographic portraits is the
family likeness that shows itself throughout a whole wide connection. We notice it more readily
than in life, from the fact that we bring many of these family-portraits together and study
them more at our ease. There is something in the face that corresponds to tone in the voice,--recognizable,
not capable of description; and this kind of resemblance in the faces of kindred we may observe,
though the features are unlike. But the features themselves are wonderfully tenacious of their
old patterns. The Prince of Wales is getting to look like George III. We noticed it when he
was in this country; we see it more plainly in his recent photographs. Governor Endicott's
features have come straight down to some of his descendants in the present day. There is a
dimpled chin which runs through one family connection we have studied, and a certain form of
lip which belongs to another. As our cheval de bataille stands ready saddled and bridled for
us just now, we must indulge ourselves in mounting him for a brief excursion. This is a story
we have told so often that we should begin to doubt it but for the fact that we have before
us the written statement of the person who was its subject. His professor, who did not know
his name or anything about him, stopped him one day after lecture and asked him if he was not
a relation of Mr. ----, a person of some note in Essex County.--Not that he had ever heard
of.--The professor thought he must be,--would he inquire?--Two or three days afterwards, having
made inquiries at his home in Middlesex County, he reported that an elder member of the family
informed him that Mr. ----'s great-grandfather on his mother's side and his own great-grandfather
on his father's side were own cousins. The whole class of facts, of which this seems to us
too singular an instance to be lost, is forcing itself into notice, with new strength of evidence,
through the galleries of photographic family-portraits which are making everywhere.

In the course of a certain number of years there will have been developed some new physiognomical
results, which will prove of extreme interest to the physiologist and the moralist. They will
take time; for, to bring some of them out fully, a generation must be followed from its cradle
to its grave.

The first is a precise study of the effects of age upon the features. Many series of portraits
taken at short intervals through life, studied carefully side by side, will probably show to
some acute observer that Nature is very exact in the tallies that mark the years of human life.

The second is to result from a course of investigations which we would rather indicate than
follow out; for, if the student of it did not fear the fate of Phalaris,--that he should find
himself condemned as unlifeworthy upon the basis of his own observations,--he would very certainly
become the object of eternal hatred to the proprietors of all the semi-organizations which
he felt obliged to condemn. It consists in the study of the laws of physical degeneration,--the
stages and manifestations of the process by which Nature dismantles the complete and typical
human organism, until it becomes too bad for her own sufferance, and she kills it off before
the advent of the reproductive period, that it may not permanently depress her average of vital
force by taking part in the life of the race. There are many signs that fall far short of the
marks of cretinism,--yet just as plain as that is to the visus eruditus,--which one meets every
hour of the day in every circle of society. Many of these are partial arrests of development.
We do not care to mention all which we think may be recognized, but there is one which we need
not hesitate to speak of from the fact that it is so exceedingly common.

The vertical part of the lower jaw is short, and the angle of the jaw is obtuse, in infancy.
When the physical development is complete, the lower jaw, which, as the active partner in the
business of mastication, must be developed in proportion to the vigor of the nutritive apparatus,
comes down by a rapid growth which gives the straight-cut posterior line and the bold right
angle so familiar to us in the portraits of pugilists, exaggerated by the caricaturists in
their portraits of fighting men, and noticeable in well-developed persons of all classes. But
in imperfectly grown adults the jaw retains the infantile character,--the short vertical portion
necessarily implying the obtuse angle. The upper jaw at the same time fails to expand laterally:
in vigorous organisms it spreads out boldly, and the teeth stand square and with space enough;
whereas in subvitalized persons it remains narrow, as in the child, so that the large front
teeth are crowded, or slanted forward, or thrown out of line. This want of lateral expansion
is frequently seen in the jaws, upper and lower, of the American, and has been considered a
common cause of caries of the teeth.

A third series of results will relate to the effect of character in moulding the features.
Go through a "rogues' gallery" and observe what the faces of the most hardened villains have
in common. All these villanous looks have been shaped out of the unmeaning lineaments of infancy.
The police-officers know well enough the expression of habitual crime. Now, if all this series
of faces had been carefully studied in photographs from the days of innocence to those of confirmed
guilt, there is no doubt that a keen eye might recognize, we will not say the first evil volition
in the change it wrought upon the face, nor each successive stage in the downward process of
the falling nature, but epochs and eras, with differential marks, as palpable perhaps as those
which separate the aspects of the successive decades of life. And what is far pleasanter, when
the character of a neglected and vitiated child is raised by wise culture, the converse change
will be found--nay, has been found--to record itself unmistakably upon the faithful page of
the countenance; so that charitable institutions have learned that their strongest appeal lies
in the request, "Look on this picture, and on that,"--the lawless boy at his entrance, and
the decent youth at his dismissal.

The field of photography is extending itself to embrace subjects of strange and sometimes of
fearful interest. We have referred in a former article to a stereograph in a friend's collection
showing the bodies of the slain heaped up for burial after the Battle of Malignano. We have
now before us a series of photographs showing the field of Antietam and the surrounding country,
as they appeared after the great battle of the 17th of September. These terrible mementos of
one of the most sanguinary conflicts of the war we owe to the enterprise of Mr. Brady of New
York. We ourselves were on the field upon the Sunday following the Wednesday when the battle
took place. It is not, however, for us to bear witness to the fidelity of views which the truthful
sunbeam has delineated in all their dread reality. The photographs bear witness to the accuracy
of some of our own sketches in a paper published in the December number of this magazine. The
"ditch" is figured, still encumbered with the dead, and strewed, as we saw it and the neighboring
fields, with fragments and tatters. The "colonel's gray horse" is given in another picture
just as we saw him lying.

Let him who wishes to know what war is look at this series of illustrations. These wrecks of
manhood thrown together in careless heaps or ranged in ghastly rows for burial were alive but
yesterday. How dear to their little circles far away most of them!--how little cared for here
by the tired party whose office it is to consign them to the earth! An officer may here and
there be recognized; but for the rest--if enemies, they will be counted, and that is all. "80
Rebels are buried in this hole" was one of the epitaphs we read and recorded. Many people would
not look through this series. Many, having seen it and dreamed of its horrors, would lock it
up in some secret drawer, that it might not thrill or revolt those whose soul sickens at such
sights. It was so nearly like visiting the battlefield to look over these views, that all the
emotions excited by the actual sight of the stained and sordid scene, strewed with rags and
wrecks, came back to us, and we buried them in the recesses of our cabinet as we would have
buried the mutilated remains of the dead they too vividly represented. Yet war and battles
should have truth for their delineator. It is well enough for some Baron Gros or Horace Vernet
to please an imperial master with fanciful portraits of what they are supposed to be. The honest
sunshine

    "Is Nature's sternest painter, yet the best";

and that gives us, even without the crimson coloring which flows over the recent picture, some
conception of what a repulsive, brutal, sickening, hideous thing it is, this dashing together
of two frantic mobs to which we give the name of armies. The end to be attained justifies the
means, we are willing to believe; but the sight of these pictures is a commentary on civilization
such as a savage might well triumph to show its missionaries. Yet through such martyrdom must
come our redemption. War Is the surgery of crime. Bad as it is in itself, it always implies
that something worse has gone before. Where is the American, worthy of his privileges, who
does not now recognize the fact, if never until now, that the disease of our nation was organic,
not functional, calling for the knife, and not for washes and anodynes?

It is a relief to soar away from the contemplation of these sad scenes and fly in the balloon
which carried Messrs. King and Black in their aërial photographic excursion. Our townsman,
Dr. John Jeffries, as is well recollected, was one of the first to tempt the perilous heights
of the atmosphere, and the first who ever performed a journey through the air of any considerable
extent. We believe this attempt of our younger townsmen to be the earliest in which the aëronaut
has sought to work the two miracles at once, of rising against the force of gravity, and picturing
the face of the earth beneath him without brush or pencil.

One of their photographs is lying before us. Boston, as the eagle and the wild goose see it,
is a very different object from the same place as the solid citizen looks up at its eaves and
chimneys. The Old South and Trinity Church are two landmarks not to be mistaken. Washington
Street slants across the picture as a narrow cleft. Milk Street winds as if the cowpath which
gave it a name had been followed by the builders of its commercial palaces. Windows, chimneys,
and skylights attract the eye in the central parts of the view, exquisitely defined, bewildering
in numbers. Towards the circumference it grows darker, becoming clouded and confused, and at
one end a black expanse of waveless water is whitened by the nebulous outline of flitting sails.
As a first attempt it is on the whole a remarkable success; but its greatest interest is in
showing what we may hope to see accomplished in the same direction.

While the aëronaut is looking at our planet from the vault of heaven where he hangs suspended,
and seizing the image of the scene beneath him as he flies, the astronomer is causing the heavenly
bodies to print their images on the sensitive sheet he spreads under the rays concentrated
by his telescope. We have formerly taken occasion to speak of the wonderful stereoscopic figures
of the moon taken by Mr. De la Rue in England, by Mr. Rutherford and by Mr. Whipple in this
country. To these most successful experiments must be added that of Dr. Henry Draper, who has
constructed a reflecting telescope, with the largest silver reflector in the world, except
that of the Imperial Observatory at Paris, for the special purpose of celestial photography.
The reflectors made by Dr. Draper "will show Debilissima quadruple, and easily bring out the
companion of Sirius or the sixth star in the trapezium of Orion." In taking photographs from
these mirrors, a movement of the sensitive plate of only one-hundredth of an inch will render
the image perceptibly less sharp. It was this accuracy of convergence of the light which led
Dr. Draper to prefer the mirror to the achromatic lens. He has taken almost all the daily phases
of the moon, from the sixth to the twenty-seventh day, using mostly some of Mr. Anthony's quick
collodion, and has repeatedly obtained the full moon by means of it in one-third of a second.

In the last "Annual of Scientific Discovery" are interesting notices of photographs of the
sun, showing the spots on his disk, of Jupiter with his belts, and Saturn with his ring.

While the astronomer has been reducing the heavenly bodies to the dimensions of his stereoscopic
slide, the anatomist has been lifting the invisible by the aid of his microscope into palpable
dimensions, to remain permanently recorded in the handwriting of the sun himself. Eighteen
years ago, M. Donné published in Paris a series of plates executed after figures obtained by
the process of Daguerre. These, which we have long employed in teaching, give some pretty good
views of various organic elements, but do not attempt to reproduce any of the tissues. Professor
O.N. Rood, of Troy, has sent us some most interesting photographs, showing the markings of
infusoria enormously magnified and perfectly defined. In a stereograph sent us by the same
gentleman the epithelium scales from mucous membrane are shown floating or half-submerged in
fluid,--a very curious effect, requiring the double image to produce it. Of all the microphotographs
we have seen, those made by Dr. John Dean, of Boston, from his own sections of the spinal cord,
are the most remarkable for the light they throw on the minute structure of the body. The sections
made by Dr. Dean are in themselves very beautiful specimens, and have formed the basis of a
communication to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in which many new observations
have been added to our knowledge of this most complicated structure. But figures drawn from
images seen in the field of the microscope have too often been known to borrow a good deal
from the imagination of the beholder. Some objects are so complex that they defy the most cunning
hand to render them with all their features. When the enlarged image is suffered to delineate
itself, as in Dr. Dean's views of the medulla oblongata, there is no room to question the exactness
of the portraiture, and the distant student is able to form his own opinion as well as the
original observer. These later achievements of Dr. Dean have excited much attention here and
in Europe, and point to a new epoch of anatomical and physiological delineation.

The reversed method of microscopic photography is that which gives portraits and documents
in little. The best specimen of this kind we have obtained is another of those miracles which
recall the wonders of Arabian fiction. On a slip of glass, three inches long by one broad,
is a circle of thinner glass, as large as a ten-cent piece. In the centre of this is a speck,
as if a fly had stepped there without scraping his foot before setting it down. On putting
this under a microscope magnifying fifty diameters there come into view the Declaration of
Independence in full, in a clear, bold type, every name signed in fac-simile; the arms of all
the States, easily made out, and well finished; with good portraits of all the Presidents,
down to a recent date. Any person familiar with the faces of the Presidents would recognize
any one of these portraits in a moment.

Still another application of photography, becoming every day more and more familiar to the
public, is that which produces enlarged portraits, even life-size ones, from the old daguerreotype
or more recent photographic miniature. As we have seen this process, a closet is arranged as
a camera-obscura, and the enlarged image is thrown down through a lens above on a sheet of
sensitive paper placed on a table capable of being easily elevated or depressed. The image,
weakened by diffusion over so large a space, prints itself slowly, but at last comes out with
a clearness which is surprising,--a fact which is parallel to what is observed in the stereoscopticon,
where a picture of a few square inches in size is "extended" or diluted so as to cover some
hundreds of square feet, and yet preserves its sharpness to a degree which seems incredible.

The copying of documents to be used as evidence is another most important application of photography.
No scribe, however skilful, could reproduce such a paper as we saw submitted to our fellow-workman
in Mr. Black's establishment the other day. It contained perhaps a hundred names and marks,
but smeared, spotted, soiled, rubbed, and showing every awkward shape of penmanship that a
miscellaneous collection of half-educated persons could furnish. No one, on looking at the
photographic copy, could doubt that it was a genuine reproduction of a real list of signatures;
and when half a dozen such copies, all just alike, were shown, the conviction became a certainty
that all had a common origin. This copy was made with a Harrison's globe lens of sixteen inches'
focal length, and was a very sharp and accurate duplicate of the original. It is claimed for
this new American invention that it is "quite ahead of anything European"; and the certificates
from the United States Coast-Survey Office go far towards sustaining its pretensions.

Some of our readers are aware that photographic operations are not confined to the delineation
of material objects. There are certain establishments in which, for an extra consideration,
(on account of the difficilis ascensus, or other long journey they have to take,) the spirits
of the departed appear in the same picture which gives the surviving friends. The actinic influence
of a ghost on a sensitive plate is not so strong as might be desired; but considering that
spirits are so nearly immaterial, that the stars, as Ossian tells us, can be seen through their
vaporous outlines, the effect is perhaps as good as ought to be expected.

Mrs. Brown, for instance, has lost her infant, and wishes to have its spirit-portrait taken
with her own. A special sitting is granted, and a special fee is paid. In due time the photograph
is ready, and, sure enough, there is the misty image of an infant in the background, or, it
may be, across the mother's lap. Whether the original of the image was a month or a year old,
whether it belonged to Mrs. Brown or Mrs. Jones or Mrs. Robinson, King Solomon, who could point
out so sagaciously the parentage of unauthenticated babies, would be puzzled to guess. But
it is enough for the poor mother, whose eyes are blinded with tears, that she sees a print
of drapery like an infant's dress, and a rounded something, like a foggy dumpling, which will
stand for a face: she accepts the spirit-portrait as a revelation from the world of shadows.
Those who have seen shapes in the clouds, or remember Hamlet and Polonius, or who have noticed
how readily untaught eyes see a portrait of parent, spouse, or child in almost any daub intended
for the same, will understand how easily the weak people who resort to these places are deluded.

There are various ways of producing the spirit-photographs. One of the easiest is this. First
procure a bereaved subject with a mind "sensitized" by long immersion in credulity. Find out
the age, sex, and whatever else you can, about his or her departed relative. Select from your
numerous negatives one that corresponds to the late lamented as nearly as may be. Prepare a
sensitive plate. Now place the negative against it and hold it up close to your gas-lamp, which
may be turned up pretty high. In this way you get a foggy copy of the negative in one part
of the sensitive plate, which you can then place in the camera and take your flesh-and-blood
sitter's portrait upon it in the usual way. An appropriate background for these pictures is
a view of the asylum for feeble-minded persons, the group of buildings at Somerville, and possibly,
if the penitentiary could be introduced, the hint would be salutary.

The number of amateur artists in photography is continually increasing. The interest we ourselves
have taken in some results of photographic art has brought us under a weight of obligation
to many of them which we can hardly expect to discharge. Some of the friends in our immediate
neighborhood have sent us photographs of their own making which for clearness and purity of
tone compare favorably with the best professional work. Among our more distant correspondents
there are two so widely known to photographers that we need not hesitate to name them: Mr.
Coleman Sellers of Philadelphia and Mr. S. Wager Hull of New York. Many beautiful specimens
of photographic art have been sent us by these gentlemen,--among others, some exquisite views
of Sunnyside and of the scene of Ichabod Crane's adventures. Mr. Hull has also furnished us
with a full account of the dry process, as followed by him, and from which he brings out results
hardly surpassed by any method.

A photographic intimacy between two persons who never saw each other's faces (that is, in Nature's
original positive, the principal use of which, after all, is to furnish negatives from which
portraits may be taken) is a new form of friendship. After an introduction by means of a few
views of scenery or other impersonal objects, with a letter or two of explanation, the artist
sends his own presentment, not in the stiff shape of a purchased carte de visite, but as seen
in his own study or parlor, surrounded by the domestic accidents which so add to the individuality
of the student or the artist. You see him at his desk or table with his books and stereoscopes
round him; you notice the lamp by which he reads,--the objects lying about; you guess his condition,
whether married or single; you divine his tastes, apart from that which he has in common with
yourself. By-and-by, as he warms towards you, he sends you the picture of what lies next to
his heart,--a lovely boy, for instance, such as laughs upon us in the delicious portrait on
which we are now looking, or an old homestead, fragrant with all the roses of his dead summers,
caught in one of Nature's loving moments, with the sunshine gilding it like the light of his
own memory. And so these shadows have made him with his outer and his inner life a reality
for you; and but for his voice, which you have never heard, you know him better than hundreds
who call him by name, as they meet him year after year, and reckon him among their familiar
acquaintances.

       *       *       *       *       *

To all these friends of ours, those whom we have named, and not less those
whom we have silently remembered, we send our grateful acknowledgments.
They have never allowed the interest we have long taken in the miraculous
art of photography to slacken. Though not one of them may learn anything
from this simple account we have given, they will perhaps allow that it
has a certain value for less instructed readers, in consequence of its
numerous and rich omissions of much which, however valuable, is not at
first indispensable.
    Dead rides Sir Morten of Fogelsang.

       *       *       *       *       *

GALA-DAYS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FLEUR-DE-LIS AT PORT ROYAL. They were in full paint, in honor of the occasion, and in a
most friendly mood.

They named the river the River of May,--it is now the St. John's,--and on its southern shore,
near its mouth, planted a stone pillar graven with the arms of France. At length, they reached
a scene made glorious in after-years.

    [Footnote 1: The following is the record of this early visit to
    Port Royal, taken from Ribaut's report to Coliguy, translated and
    printed in London in 1563:--

    "And when wee had sounded the entrie of the Chanell (thanked be
    God), wee entered safely therein with our shippes, against the
    opinion of many, finding the same one of the fayrest, and greatest
    Hauens of the worlde. Howe be it, it must be remembred, least men
    approaching neare it within seven leagues of the lande, bee
    abashed and afraide on the East side, drawing toward the
    Southeast, the grounde to be flatte, for neuerthelesse at a full
    sea, there is eurey where foure fathome water keeping the right
    Chanel."
Thither, accordingly, they went.
The deed done, and the famished soldier delivered, they called to the
command one Nicholas Barré, a man of merit.
Did they feel themselves the pioneers of religious freedom, the
advance-guard of civilization? Not at all. But how to escape? A
continent was their solitary prison, and the pitiless Atlantic closed the
egress. The choice was made. It fell on La Chère, the
same wretched man whom Albert had doomed to starvation on a lonely island,
and whose mind was burdened with the fresh memories of his anguish and
despair. A tempest of
miseries awaited those who essayed to plant the banners of France and of
Calvin in the Southern forests; and the bloody scenes of the religious war
were acted in epitome on the shores of Florida.

       *       *       *       *       *

HER EPITAPH.

      The handful here, that once was Mary's earth,
    Held, while it breathed, so beautiful a soul,
      That, when she died, all recognized her birth,
    And had their sorrow in serene control.

      "Not here! not here!" to every mourner's heart
    The wintry wind seemed whispering round her bier;
      And when the tomb-door opened, with a start
    We heard it echoed from within,--"Not here!"

      Shouldst thou, sad pilgrim, who mayst hither pass,
    Note in these flowers a delicater hue,
      Should spring come earlier to this hallowed grass,
    Or the bee later linger on the dew,

      Know that her spirit to her body lent
    Such sweetness, grace, as only goodness can,
      That even her dust, and this her monument,
    Have yet a spell to stay one lonely man,--

      Lonely through life, but looking for the day
    When what is mortal of himself shall sleep,
      When human passion shall have passed away,
    And Love no longer be a thing to weep.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAUL BLECKER.

PART III.

[Conclusion.]

"Skin cool, damp. Pha! pha! I thought that camphor and morphine last night would cure you.
Always good for sudden attacks."

The little woman's stumpy white fingers were very motherly, touching Grey's forehead.

"I promised Doctor Blecker you would see him in half an hour."

"It is not best," the girl said, standing up, leaning against the mantel-shelf.

"It is best. Yes. You say you will not consent to the marriage: are going with me to-night.
So, so. I ask no questions. No, child. Hush!"--with a certain dignity. "I want no explanations.
Sarah Sheppard's rough, maybe; but she keeps her own privacy, and regards that of others. But
you must see him. He is your best friend, if nothing more. A woman cannot be wrong, when she
acts in that way from the inherent truth of things. That was my mother's rule. In half an hour,"--putting
her forefinger on Grey's temple, and pursing her mouth. "Pulse low. Sharp seven the train goes.
I'll bring a bottle of nitre in my bag,"--and she bustled out.

Grey looked after her. Strong, useful, stable: how contented and happy she had been since she
was born! Love, wealth, coming to her as matters of course. The girl looked out of the dingy
window into the wearisome gray sky. Well, what was the difference between them? What crime
had she committed, that God should have so set His face against her from the first,--from the
very first? She had trusted Him more than this woman whom He seemed glad to bless. There were
two or three creamy wild-lilies in a broken glass on the sill. The girl always loved the flower,
because Jesus had touched it once: it brought her near to him, she fancied. She thought of
him now, seeing them, and put her hand to her head: remembering the nameless agony he had chosen
to bear to show her what a true life should be; loving him with that desperate hope with which
only a woman undone clings to him upon the cross. And yet--

"It's hard," she said, turning sullenly away from the window.

Whatever the hours of this past day and night had been to her, they had left one curious mark
on her face,--a hollow sinking of the lines about the mouth, as though years of pain had slowly
crept over her. Suffering had not ennobled her. It is only heroic, large-brained women, with
a great natural grasp of charity, that severe pain lifts out of themselves: weak souls, like
Grey, who starve without daily food of personal love, contract under God's great judgments,
sour into pettish discontent, or grow maudlin as blind devotees, knowing but two things in
eternity,--their own idea of God, and their own salvation. Nunneries are full of them. Grey
had no vital pith of self-reliance to keep her erect, now that the storm came. What strength
she had was outside: her childlike grip on the hand of the Man gone before.

"In half an hour." She tried to put that thought out, and look at the chamber they had given
her last night: odd enough for a woman; a bare-floored, low-ceiled room, the upper story of
the fire-engine house: the same which they had used as a guard-house; but they had no prisoners
now. From this window where she stood John Brown had defended himself; the marks of bullets
were in the walls. She tried to think of all that had followed that defence, of the four millions
of slaves for whom he died, whose friends in the North would convert their masters into their
deadly foes, and be slothful in helping them themselves. She tried to fill up the half-hour
thinking of this, but it seemed to her she was more to be pitied than they. Chained to a man
she hated. Why, more than four millions of women had married as she had done: society drove
them into it. "In half an hour." He was coming then. She would be calm about it, would bid
him good-bye without crying. He would suffer less then,--poor Paul! She had his likeness: she
would give that back. She drew it from its hiding-place and laid it down: the eyes looked at
hers with a half-laugh: she turned away quickly to the window, holding herself up by her shaking
hands. If she could keep it to look at,--at night, sometimes! She would grow old soon, and
in all her life if she had this one little pleasure!

"I will not," she said, pushing it from her. "I will go to God pure."

She heard a man's step on the clay path outside. Only the sentry's. Paul's was heavier, more
nervous. Pen came to her to button his coat.

"To-day are we going home, Sis?"

"Yes, to-day."

God forgive her, if for a moment she loathed the home!

"Pen, will you love me always?"--holding him tight to her breast. "I won't have anybody but you."

Pen kissed her, the kiss meaning little, and ran out to the sentry, who made a pet of him.
But what the kiss meant was all the future held for her: she knew that.

Now came the strange change which no logician can believe in or disprove. While she stood there,
holding her hands over her eyes, trying to accept her fate, it grew too heavy and dark for
her to bear. What Helper she sought then, and how, only those who have found Him know. I only
can tell you that presently she bared her face, her nerves trembling, for the half-hour was
nearly over, but with a brave, still light in her hazel eyes. The change had come of which
every soul is susceptible. Very bitter tears may have come after that; her life was but a tawdry
remnant, she might still think, for that foul lie of hers long ago; but she would take up the
days cheerfully, and do God's will with them.

There was another step: not the sentry's now. She bathed her red eyes, and hastily drew her
hair back plain. Paul liked the curls falling about her throat. She must never try to please
him again. Never! She must bid him good-bye now. It meant forever. Maybe when she was dead--He
was coming: she heard his foot on the stairs, his hand on the latch. God help her to be a true
woman!

"Grey!"

He touched the hand covering her eyes.

"It is so cold! You mean to leave me, Grey?"

She drew back, sitting down on a camp-chest, and looked up at him. He had not come there to
tempt her by passionate evil: she saw that. This pain he had fought with in his soul all night,
trying to see what God meant by it, had left his face subdued, earnest, sorrowful. Perhaps
since Paul Blecker left his mother's knee he had never been so like a child as now.

"Yes, I must go. He will not claim me. I am glad I was spared that. I'm going to try and do
right with the rest of my life, Paul."

Blecker said nothing, paced the floor of the room, his head sunk on his breast.

"Let us go out of this," at last. "I'm choked. I think in the free air we will know what is
right, better."

She put on her hood, and they went out, the girl drawing back on the steps, lest he should
offer to assist her.

"I will not touch you, Grey," he said, gravely, "unless you give me leave."

Somehow, as she followed him down the deserted street, she felt how puny her trouble was, after
all, to his. She had time to notice the drops of sweat wrung out on his forehead, and wish
she dared to wipe them away; but he strode on in silence, forgetting even her, facing this
inscrutable fate that mastered them, with a strong man's desperation. They came to the river,
out of sight of the town. She stopped.

"We must wait here. I must stay where I can hear the train coming."

"The train,--yes. You are going in it? Yet, Grey, you love me?"

She wrung her hands with a frightened cry.

"Paul, don't tempt me. I'm weak: you know that. Don't make me fouler than I am. There 's something
in the world better for us than love: to try to be pure and true. You'll help me to be that,
dear Paul?"--laying her hand on his arm, beseechingly. "You'll not keep me back? It's hard,
you know,"--trying to smile, her lips only growing colorless.

"I'll help you, Grey,"--his face distorted, touching her fingers for an instant with an unutterable
tenderness. "I knew this man was here from the first. If there was crime in our marriage, I
took it on myself. I was not afraid to face hell for you, child. But, Grey," meeting her eye,
"I love you. I will not risk your soul for my selfish pleasure. If it be a crime for you to
stay with me, I will bid you go, and never attempt to see your face again."

"If it be a crime? You cannot doubt that, Paul!"

"I do doubt it. You can obtain a divorce,"--looking at her, with his color changing.

She pushed back the hair from her forehead. Her brain ached. Where was all the clear reasoning
she had meant to meet him with?

"No, I will not do that. I know the law says it is right; but Christ forbade it. I can't argue.
I only know his words."

He walked to and fro: he could not be still a minute, when in pain.

"Will you sit there?"--motioning her to a flat rock. "I want to speak to you."

She sat down,--looked at the river. If she saw that look on his face longer, she would go to
him, though God's own arm stretched between them. She clenched her little hands together, something
in her soul crying out, "I'm trying to do right," fiercely, to God. Martyrs for every religion
have said the same, when the heat crept closer over the fagots. They were true to the best
they could discover, and He asks no more of any man.

"I want you to hear me patiently," he said, standing near her, and looking down. "You said
there was something better for us in the world than love. There is nothing for me. I've not
been taught much about God or His ways. I thought I'd learn them through you. I've lived a
coarse, selfish life. You took me out of it. I am not very selfish, loving you, little Grey,"--with
a sad smile,--"for I will give you up sooner than hurt you. But if I had married you, I think
it would have redeemed me. I want you," passing his hand over his forehead, uncertainly, "to
look at this thing calmly. We'll put feeling aside. Because--because it matters more than life
or death to me."

He was silent a moment.

"All night I have been trying to face it dispassionately, with reason. I have succeeded now."

It is a pitiful thing to see a man choke down such weakness. Grey would not see it: her eyes
were fastened on her hands. He controlled himself, going on rapidly.

"I say nothing of myself. I'm only a weak, passionate man; but I mean to let your soul be pure.
Yet I believe you judge wrongly in this. You think of marriage, as women in your State and
in the South are taught to think, as a thing irrevocable. There are men in New England who
hold other views,--pure, good men, Grey. I've tried to put you from my mind, and look at society
as it is, with its corrupt, mercenary marriages, and I believe their theory is the only feasible
and just,--that only those bound by secret affinity to each other are truly married."

Grey's face flushed.

"I have heard the theory, and its results,"--low.

"Because it has been seized upon as a cloak by false men. Use your reason, Grey. Do not be
blinded by popular prejudice. Your fate and mine rest on this question."

"I will try to understand."

She faced him gravely.

"Whom God hath joined together no man shall put asunder. Somewhere, when our souls were made,
I think, He joined us, Grey. You know that."

"I do know it."

She stood up, not shrinking from his eye now,--her womanly nature, clear and brave, looking
out from hers.

"I will not speak of love: you know what that is. You know you need me: you have moulded your
very thought and life in mine. It is right it should be so. God meant it. He made them male
and female: taught them by that instinct of nearness to know when the two souls mated in eternity
had found each other. Then the only true marriage comes,--pure, helpful, resting on God, stretching
out strong, healthy aid to His humanity. The true souls, lovers, have found each other now, Grey."

He came to her,--took her hands in his.

"I know that,"--her pale face still lifted.

"Then,"--all the passion of a life in his voice,--"what shall come between us? If, in God's
eye, who is Love, you love me purely, have given me the life of your life to keep, is a foul,
lying vow, uttered to a man scarce made in God's image, to keep us apart? I tell you, your
soul's health and mine depend on this."

She did not speak: her breath came labored and thick.

"You will come with me, Grey. You shall not go back to the slavery yonder, dragging out the
bit of time God gave you, in which to develop your soul, in coddling selfish brats, and kitchen-work.
There are homes where men and women enfranchise themselves from the cursed laws of society,--Phalansteries,--where
each soul develops itself out of the inner centre of eternal truth and love according to its
primal bent, free to yield to its instincts and affinities. I learned their theory long ago,
but I never believed in it until now. We will go there, Grey. We will be governed by the laws
of our own nature. It will be a free, beautiful life, my own. Music and Art and Nature shall
surround us with an eternal harmony. We will have work, true work, such as suits our native
power; these talents smothered in your brain and mine shall come to life in vigorous growth.
Here in the world, struggling meanly for food, this cannot be. That shall be the true Utopia,
Grey. Some day all mankind shall so live. We, now. "Will you come?"--drawing her softly towards
him. "You do not yield?"--looking in her face. "I am sincere. I see the truth of the life-scheme
of these people through my love for you. No human soul can reach its full stature, unless it
be free and happy. There is no chain on women such as marriages like yours."

Still silence.

"I say that there are slaveries in society, and false marriages are the worst; and until you
and all women are free from them, you never can become what God meant you to be. Do I speak truth?"

"It is true."

"You will come with me, then?"--his face growing red.

For one moment her head rested against the rock, languid and nerveless. Then she stood erect.

"I will not go, Paul."

He caught her arm; but she shook him off, and held her hand to her side to keep down an actual
physical pain that some women suffer when their hearts are tried. Her eyes, it may be, were
wakened into a new resolve. It was useless for him now to appeal to feeling or passion: he
had left the decision to her reason,--to her faith. They were stronger than he.

"I will not go, Paul."

No answer.

"I have no words like you,"--raising her hands to her head,--"but I feel you are wrong in what
you say."

She tried to collect herself, then went on.

"It is true that women sell themselves. I did it,--to escape. I was taught wrong, as girls
are. It's true, Paul, that women are cramped and unhappy through false marriages, and that
there are cursed laws in society that defraud the poor and the slave."

She stopped, pale and frightened, struggling to find utterance, not being used to put her thought
into words. He watched her keenly.

"But it is not true, Paul,"--with choked eagerness,--"that this life was given to us only to
develop our souls, to be free and happy. That will come after,--in heaven. It is given here
only to those who pray for it. There's something better here."

"What?"

"To submit. It seems to me there are some great laws--for the good of all. When we break them,
we must submit. Let them go over us, and try to help others,--what is that text?" holding her
head a minute,--"'even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister.'"

"You mean to submit?"

"I do. I married that man of my own free will: driven, maybe, by mean fears,--but--I did it.
I will not forswear myself."

She gained courage as she went on.

"I believe that God Himself, and that our Lord, taught the meaning of a true marriage as you
do,--that without that affinity it is none. The curse comes to every woman who disregards it.
It has come to me. I'll bear it."

"Throw it off. Come out of the foul lie."

"I will live no lie, Paul. I never would have gone with John Gurney as his wife, if he had
claimed me."

"Then you are free to be mine,"--coming a step nearer.

She drew back.

"I don't think He taught that. I cannot go behind His words."

"Grey, I will not drag you one step where your free will does not lead you. Last night I said,
'I love this woman so well that I will leave her sooner than drag her into crime.' You shall
do what you think right. I will be silent."

"Good bye, then, Paul."

Yet he did not take the offered hand: stood moodily looking down into the water, crushing back
something in his heart,--the only thing in his life dear or pleasant, it may be.

"Oh, if women knew what it is to sell themselves! They will marry more purely, maybe, soon.
I believe that Christ made the marriage-vow binding, Paul, because, though some might break
it with pure intent, yet, if it were of no avail, as it is in those Homes you talk of, and
in Indiana, women would become more degraded by brutal men, live falser lives, than even now.
I'm afraid, Paul,"--with a sorrowful smile,--"men will have to educate the inner law of their
natures more, before they can live out from it: until then we'll have to obey an outer law.
You know how your Phalansteries have ended."

While she spoke, she gathered her mantle about her. It was a good thing to talk, fast and lightly,
so that he would leave her without more pain. God had helped her do right. It was bravest,
most Christ-like, for her to bear the loss she had brought on herself, and to renounce a happiness
she had made guilty. But, if women knew--Sitting on the rock by the water's edge, she thrust
her fingers into the damp mould with a thought of the time when she could lie under it,--grow
clean, through the strange processes of death, from all impurity. If she could but creep down
there now, a false-sworn, unloving wife, out of this man's sight, out of God's sight!

"Will you go?"--looking up with blanched cheek. "You were never so noble as now, Paul Blecker,
when you left me to myself to judge. If you had only touched my love"--

"You would have yielded. I know. I'm not utterly base, Grey. I am glad," his face growing red,
"you think I have been honorable. I tried to be. I want to act as a man of gentle blood and
a Christian would do,--though I'm not either."

It was a chivalric face that looked down on her, though nervous and haggard. She saw that.
How bare and mean her life yawned before her that moment! how all quiet and joy waited for
her in the arms hanging listlessly by his side, as if their work in life were done! Must she
sacrifice her life to an eternal law of God? Was this Free Love so vile a thing?

"Will you go?"--rising suddenly. "While you stand there, the Devil comes very near me, Paul."
She held out her hand. "You would despise me, if I yielded now."

"I might, but I would love you all the same, Grey,"--with a miserable attempt at a smile. He
took the hand, holding it in his a moment. "Good bye,"--all feeling frozen out of his voice.
"You've done right, Grey. It will be better for us some day. We'll think of that,--always."

"You suffer. I have made your life wretched,"--clinging suddenly to him,

"No."--turning his head away. "Never mind. I am not a child, Grey. Men do not die of grief.
They take up hard work, and that strengthens them. And my little girl will be happy. Her God
will bless her; for she is a true, good girl. Yes, true. You judged rightly."

For Blecker had taken up the alien Socialist dogma that day sincerely, but driven to it by
passion: now he swayed back to his old-fashioned faith in marriage, as one comes to solid land
after a plunge in the upheaving surf.

"Good bye, Paul."

The sunlight fell on their faces with a white brilliance, as they stood, their hands clasped,
for a moment. The girl never saw it afterwards without a sudden feeling of hate, as though
it had jeered at her mortal pain. Then Paul Blecker stood alone by the river-side, with only
a dull sense that the day was bright and unfeeling, and that something was gone from the world,
never to come back. The life before he had known her offered itself to him again in a bare
remembrance: the heat to get on,--the keen bargains,--friendships with fellows that shook him
off when they married, not caring that it hurt him,--he, without a home or religion, keeping
out of vice only from an inborn choice to be clean. That was all. Pah! God help us! What was
this life worth, after all? He glanced at the town, laid in ashes. The war was foul indeed,
yet in it there was room for high chivalric purpose. Could he so end his life? She would know
it, and love him more that he died an honorable death. Shame! and cowardly too!--was there
nothing worth finding in the world besides a woman's love?--he was no puling boy. If there
were, what was it--for him?

He looked down at the dull sweep of the valley, heard the whistle of the train that was carrying
her away, and saw the black trail of smoke against the sky,--stood silently watching it until
the last bit of smoke even had disappeared. A woman would have worked off in tears or hysteric
cries what pain came then; but the man only swallowed once or twice, lighted his cigar, and
with a grim smile went down the road.

       *       *       *       *       *

My story is nearly ended. I have no time nor wish, these war-days, to study dramatic effects,
or to shift large and cautiously painted scenes or the actors, for the mere tickling of your
eyes and ears. One or two facts in the history of these people are enough to give for my purpose:
they are for women,--nervous, greedy, discontented women: to learn from them (if I could put
the truth into forcible enough English) that truth of Christ's teaching, which has unaccountably
been let slip out of our modern theology, that his help is temporal as well as spiritual, deals
with coarsest, most practical needs, and is sworn to her who struggles to be true to her best
self, that what she asks, believing, she shall receive. That is the point,--believing.

How many tragedies of life besides finespun novels would suddenly be brought to an end, if
the heroine were only a common-sense, believing Christian of the old-fashioned pattern! Doctor
Blecker, going into the war after the day he parted from the girl at Harper's Ferry, with a
sense of as many fighting influences in his life as there were in the army, had no under-sight
of the clear mapping-out of the years for him, controlled by the simple request of the woman
yonder who loved him. She dared not repeat that prayer now; but it had gone up once out of
a childish trust, and was safely written down above.

Let us pass over five or six months, and follow Paul Blecker to Fredericksburg, the night after
that bloodiest day for the Federal forces, in December. It was the fourth battle in which he
had taken part. Now a man grows blasé, in a manner, even of wholesale slaughter; he plodded
his way quietly, indifferently almost, therefore, over the plateau below the first range of
hills, his instrument-case in hand, drinking from his brandy-flask now and then, to keep down
nausea. The night was clear,--a low, wan moon peering from the west, a warm wind from the river
drifting the heavy billows of smoke away from the battle-field. He picked his steps with difficulty,
unwilling to tread upon even the dead: they lay in heaps here, thrown aside by the men who
were removing the wounded. The day was lost: he fancied he could read on even the white upturned
faces a bitter defeat. Firing had ceased an hour ago; only at long intervals on the far left
a dull throb was heard, as though the heart of the Night pulsed heavily and feverishly in her
sleep: no other sound, save the constant, deadening roll of ambulances going out from this
Valley of Death. The field where he stood was below the ridge on which were placed Lee's batteries;
for ten hours the grand division of Sumner had charged the heights here, the fog shutting out
from them all but the impregnable foe in front, and the bit of blue sky above, the last glimpse
of life they were to see,--charging with the slow, cumulative energy of an ocean-surf upon
a rock, and ebbing back at last, spent, leaving behind the drift of a horrible wetness on the
grass, and uncounted murdered souls to go back to God.

The night now was bright and colorless, as I said, except where a burning house down by the
canal made a faded saffron glare. The Doctor had entered a small thicket of locust-trees; the
moonlight penetrated clearly through their thin trunks, but the dead on the grass lay in shadow.
He carried a lantern, therefore, as he gently turned them over, searching for some one. It
was a Pennsylvania regiment which had held that wood longest,--McKinstry's. Half a dozen other
men were employed like the Doctor,--Irish, generally: they don't forget the fellows that messed
with them as quickly as our countrymen do.

"We're in luck, Dan Reilly," said one. "Here's the Docthor himself. Av we hed the b'ys now,
we'd be complate,"--turning over one face after another, unmistakably Dutch or Puritan.

"Ev it's Pat O'Shaughnessy yez want," said another, "he'd be afther gittin' ayont the McManuses,
an' here they are. They're Fardowners on'y. Pat's Corkonian, he is; he'll be nearer th' inemy
by a fut, I'll ingage yez."

"He's my cousin,"--hard tugging at the dead bodies with one arm;--the other hung powerless.
"I can't face Mary an' her childher agin an' say I lift her man widout Christian burial.--Howld
yer sowl! Dan Reilly, give us a lift; here he is. Are ye dead, Pat?"

One eye in the blackened face opened.

"On'y my leg. 'O'Shaughnessy agin th' warld, an' the warld agin th' Divil!'"--which was received
with a cheer from the Corkonians.

"Av yer Honor," insinuated Dan, "wud attind to this poor man, we'd be proud to diskiver the
frind you're in sarch of."

Blecker glanced at the stout Irishmen about him, with kind faces under all the whiskey, and
stronger arms than his own."

"I will, boys. You know him,--he's in your regiment,--Captain McKinstry. He fell in this wood,
they tell me."

"I think I know him,"--his head to one side. "Woodenish-looking chap, all run up into shoulders,
with yellow hair?"

Blecker nodded, and motioned them to carry O'Shaughnessy into a low tool-house near, a mere
shed, half tumbling down from a shell that had shattered its side. There was a bench there,
where they could lay the wounded man, however. He stooped over the big mangled body, joking
with him,--it was the best comfort to Pat to give him a chance to show how little he cared
for the surgeon's knife,--glancing now and then at the pearly embankment of clouds in the south,
or at the delicate locust-boughs in black and shivering tracery against the moonlight, trying
to shut his ears to the unceasing under-current of moans that reached him in the silence.

Seeing him there with his lantern and instruments, they brought him one wounded man after another,
to whom he gave what aid he could, and then despatched them in the army-wagons, looking impatiently
after Dan, in his search for the Captain. He had not known before how much he cared for McKinstry,
with a curious protecting care. Other men in the army were more his chums than Mac, but they
were coarse, able to take care of themselves. Mac was like that simple-hearted old Israelite
in whom there was no guile. In the camp he had been perpetually imposed on by his men,--giving
them treats of fresh beef and bread, and tracts at the same time. They laughed at him, but
were oddly fond of him; he was a sharp disciplinarian, but was too quiet, they always had thought,
to have much pluck.

Blecker, glancing at his watch, saw that it was eleven; the moon was sinking fast, her level
rays fainter and bluer, as from some farther depth of rest and quiet than before. His keenly
set ears distinguished just then an even tramp among the abrupt sounds without,--the feet of
two or three men carrying weight.

"He's here, Zur," said Dan, who held the feet, tenderly enough. "Aisy now, b'ys. It's not bar'ls
ye're liftin'." They laid him down. "Fur up th' ridge he was: not many blue-coats furder an.
That's true,"--in a loud, hearty tone. "I'm doubtin'," in an aside, "it's all over wid him.
I'll howld the lantern, Zur."

"You, Blecker?" McKinstry muttered, as he opened his eyes with his usual pleased smile. "We've
lost the day?"

"Yes. No matter now, Mac. Quiet one moment,"--cutting the boot from his leg.

"Not fifty of my boys escaped,"--a sort of spasm passing over his face. "Tell them at home
they fought nobly,--nobly."

His voice died down. Blecker finished his examination,--it needed but a minute,--then softly
replaced the leg, and, coming up, stood quiet, only wiping the dampness off his forehead. Dan
set down the lantern.

"I'll go, Zur," he whispered. "Ther' 's work outside, belike."

The Doctor nodded. McKinstry opened his eyes.

"Good bye, my friend,"--stretching out his hand to Dan. "My brother couldn't have been kinder
to me than you were to-night."

"Good bye, Zur." The rough thrust out his great fist eagerly. "God open the gate wide for yer
Honor, the night,"--clearing his voice, as he went out.

"I'm going, then, Blecker?"

Paul could not meet the womanish blue eyes turned towards him: he turned abruptly away.

"Why! why! Tut! I did not think you cared, Paul,"--tightening his grasp of the hand in his.
Then, closing his eyes, he covered his face with his left hand, and was silent awhile.

"Go, Doctor," he said, at last. "I forgot that others need you. Go at once. I'm very comfortable
here."

"I will not go. Do you see this?"--pointing to the stream of bright arterial blood. "It was
madness to throw your life away thus; a handkerchief tightened here would have sufficed until
they carried you off the field."

"Yes, yes, I knew. But the wound came just as we were charging. Sabre-cut, it was. If I had
said I was wounded, the men would have fallen back. I thought we could take that battery; but
we did not. No matter. All right. You ought to go?"

"No. Have you no message for home?"--pushing back the yellow hair as gently as a woman. The
mild face grew distorted again and pale.

"I've a letter,--in my carpet-sack, in our tent. I wrote it last night. It's to Lizzy,--you
will deliver it, Doctor?"

"I will. Yes."

"It may be lost now,--there is such confusion in the camp. The key is in my right pocket,--inside
the spectacle-case: have you got it?"

"Yes."

Blecker could hardly keep back a smile: even the pocket-furniture was neatly ordered in the
hour of death.

"If it is lost,"--turning his head restlessly,--"light your lantern, Blecker, it is so dark,--if
it is,--tell her"--his voice was gone. "Tell her," lifting himself suddenly, with the force
of death, "to be pure and true. My loving little girl, Lizzy,--wife." Blecker drew his head
on his shoulder. "I thought--the holidays were coming,"--closing his eyes again wearily,--"for
us. But God knows. All right!"

His lips moved, but the sound was inaudible; he smiled cheerfully, held Paul's hand closer,
and then his head grew heavy as lead, being nothing but clay. For the true knight and loyal
gentleman was gone to the Master of all honor, to learn a broader manhood and deeds of higher
emprise.

Paul Blecker stood silent a moment, and then covered the homely, kind face reverently.

"I would as lief have seen a woman die," he said, and turned away.

Two or three men came up, carrying others on a broken door and on a fence-board.

"Hyur's th' Doctor,"--laying them on a hillock of grass. "Uh wish ye'd see toh these pore chaps,
Doctor,"--with a strong Maryland accent. "One o' them's t' other side, but"--and so left them.

One of them was a burly Western boatman, with mop-like red hair and beard. Blecker looked at
him, shook his head, and went on.

"No use?"--gritting his heavy jaw. "Well!"--swallowing, as if he accepted death in that terrible
breath. "Eh, Doctor? Do you hear? Wait a bit,"--fumbling at his jacket. "I can't--There's a
V in my pocket. I wish you'd send it to the old woman,--mother,--Mrs. Jane Carr, Cincinnati,--with
my love."

The Doctor stopped to speak to him, and then passed to the next,--a fair-haired boy, with three
bullet-holes in his coat, one in his breast.

"Will I die?"--trying to keep his lips firm.

"Tut! tut! No. Only a flesh-wound. Drink that, and you'll be able to go back to the hospital,--be
well in a week or two."

"I did not want to die, though I was not afraid,"--looking up anxiously; "but"--

"But the Doctor had left him, and, kneeling down in the mud, was turning the wounded Confederate
over on his back, that he might see his face.

The boy saw him catch up his lantern and peer eagerly at him with shortened breath.

"What is it? Is he dead?"

"No, not dead,"--putting down the lantern.

But very near it, this man, John Gurney,--so near that it needed no deed of Blecker's to make
him pass the bound. Only a few moments' neglect. A bandage, a skilful touch or two, care in
the hospitals, might save him.

But what claim had he on Paul that he should do this? For a moment the hot blood in the little
Doctor's veins throbbed fiercely, as he rose slowly, and, taking his lantern, stood looking down.

"In an hour," glancing critically at him, "he will be dead."

Something within him coolly added, "And Paul Blecker a murderer."

But he choked it down, and picked his steps through scorched winter stubble, dead horses, men,
wagon-wheels, across the field; thinking, as he went, of Grey free, his child-love, true, coaxing,
coming to his tired arms once more; of the home on the farm yonder, he meant to buy,--he, the
rough, jolly farmer, and she, busy Grey, bustling Grey, with her loving, fussing ways. Why,
it came like a flash to him! Yet, as it came, tugging at his heart with the whole strength
of his blood, he turned, this poor, thwarted, passionate little Doctor, and began jogging back
to the locust-woods,--passing many wounded men of his own kith and spirit, and going back to
Gurney.

Because--he was his enemy.

"Thank God, I am not utterly debased!"--grinding the tobacco vehemently in his teeth.

He walked faster, seeing that the moon was going down, leaving the battle-field in shadow.
Overhead, the sinking light, striking upward from the horizon, had worked the black dome into
depths of fretted silver. Blecker saw it, though passion made his step unsteady and his eye
dim. No man could do a mean, foul deed while God stretched out such a temple-roof as that for
his soul to live in, was the thought that dully touched his outer consciousness. But little
Grey! If he could go home to her to-morrow, and, lifting her thin, tired face from the machine,
hold it to his breast, and say, "You're free now, forever!" O God!

He stopped, pulling his coat across his breast in his clenched hands,--then, after a moment,
went on, his arms falling powerless.

"I'm a child! It is of no use to think of it! Never!"--his hard, black eyes, that in these
last few months had grown sad and questioning as a child's, looking to the north hill, as he
strode along, as though he were bidding some one good-bye. And when he came to the hillock
and knelt down again beside Gurney, there was no malice in them. He was faithful in every touch
and draught and probe. With the wish in his heart to thrust the knife into the heart of the
unconscious man lying before him, he touched him as though he had been his brother.

Gurney, opening his eyes at last, saw the yellow, haggard face, in its fringe of black beard,
as rigid as if cut out of stone, very near his own. The grave, hopeless eyes subdued him.

"Take me out of this," he moaned.

"You are going--to the hospital,"--helping some men lift him into an ambulance.

"Slowly, my good fellows. I will follow you."

He did follow them. Let us give the man credit for every step of that following, the more that
the evil in his blood struggled so fiercely with such a mortal pain as he went. In Fredericksburg,
one of the old family-homesteads had been taken for a camp-hospital. As they laid Gurney on
a heap of straw in the library, a surgeon passed through the room.

"Story," said Paul, catching his arm, "see to that man: this is your post, I believe. I have
dressed his wound. I cannot do more."

Story did not know the meaning of that. He stuck his eye-glasses over his hook-nose, and stooped
down, being nearsighted.

"Hardly worth while to put him under my care, or anybody's. The fellow will not live until
morning."

"I don't know. I did what I could."

"Nothing more to be done.--Parr's out of lint, did you know? He's enough to provoke Job, that
fellow! I warned him especially about lint and supporters.--Why, Blecker, you are worn out,"--looking
at him closer. "It has been a hard fight."

"Yes, I am tired; it was a hard fight."

"I must find Parr about that lint, and"--

Paul walked to the window, breathing heavy draughts of the fresh morning air. The man would
not die, he thought. Grey would never be free. No. Yet, since he was a child, before he began
to grapple his way through the world, he had never known such a cheerful quiet as that which
filled his eyes with tears now; for, if the fight had been hard, Paul Blecker had won the victory.

Sunday morning dawned cold and windy. Now and then, volleys of musketry, or a repulse from
the Southern batteries on the heights, filled the blue morning sky with belching scarlet flame
and smoke: through all, however, the long train of army-wagons passed over the pontoon-bridge,
bearing the wounded. About six o'clock some men came out from the camp-hospital. Doctor Blecker
stood on the outside of the door: all night he had been there, like some lean, unquiet ghost.
Story, the surgeon, met the men. They carried something on a board, covered with an old patchwork
quilt. Story lifted the corner of the quilt to see what lay beneath. Doctor Blecker stood in
their way, but neither moved nor spoke to them.

"Take it to the trenches," said the surgeon, shortly nodding to them.--"Your Rebel friend,
Blecker."

"Dead?"

"Yes."

"Story, I did what I could?"

"Of course. Past help.--When are we to be taken out of this trap, eh?"--going on.

"I did what I could."

As the Doctor's parched lips moved, he looked up. How deep the blue was! how the cold air blew
his hair about, fresh and boisterous! He went down the field with a light, springing step,
as he used, when a boy, long ago, to run to the hay-field. The earth was so full of health,
life, beauty, he could have cried or laughed out loud. He stopped on the bridge, seeing only
the bright, rushing clouds, the broad river, the sunlight,--a little way from him in the world,
little Grey.

"I thank Thee," baring his head and bending it,--the words died in an awestruck whisper in
his heart,--"for Thy great glory, O Lord!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Will you come a little farther? Let a few months slip by, and let us see what a March day
is in the old Pennsylvania hills. The horrors of the war have not crept hither yet, into these
hill-homesteads. Never were crops richer than those of '61 and '62, nor prices better. So the
barns were full to bursting through the autumn of those years, and the fires were big enough
to warm you to your very marrow in winter.

Even now, if young Corporal Simpson, or Joe Hainer, or any other of the neighbors' boys come
home wounded, it only spices the gossip for the apple-butter-parings or spelling-matches. Then
the men, being Democrats, are reconciled to the ruin of the country, because it has been done
by the Republicans; and the women can construct secret hiding-places in the meat-cellar for
the dozen silver teaspoons and tea-pot, in dread of Stuart's cavalry. Altogether, the war gives
quite a zest to life up here. Then, in these low-hill valleys of the Alleghanies the sun pours
its hottest, most life-breeding glow, and even the wintry wind puts all its vigor into the
blast, knowing that there are no lachrymose, whey-skinned city-dyspeptics to inhale it, but
full-breasted, strong-muscled women and men,--with narrow brains, maybe, but big, healthy hearts,
and physique to match. Very much the same type of animal and moral organization, as well as
natural, you would have found before the war began, ran through the valley of Pennsylvania
and Virginia.

One farm, eight or ten miles from the village where the Gurneys lived, might be taken as a
specimen of these old homesteads. It lay in a sort of meadow-cove, fenced in with low, rolling
hills that were wooded with oaks on the summits,--sheep-cots, barns, well-to-do plum and peach
orchards creeping up the sides,--a creek binding it in with a broad, flashing band. The water
was frozen on this March evening: it had plenty of time to freeze, and stay there altogether,
in fact, it moved so slowly, knowing it had got into comfortable quarters. There was just enough
cold crispiness in the air to-night to make the two fat cows move faster into the stable, with
smoking breath, to bring out a crow of defiance from the chickens huddling together on the
roost; it spread, too, a white rime over the windows, shining red in the sinking sun. When
the sun was down, the nipping northeaster grew sharper, swept about the little valley, rattled
the bare-limbed trees, blew boards off the corn-crib that Doctor Blecker had built only last
week, tweaked his nose and made his eyes water as he came across the field clapping his hands
to make the blood move faster, and, in short, acted as if the whole of that nook in the hills
belonged to it in perpetuity. But the house, square, brick, solid-seated, began to glow red
and warm out of every window,--not with the pale rose-glow of your anthracite, but fitful,
flashing, hearty, holding out all its hands to you like a Western farmer. That's the way our
fires burn. The very smoke went out of no stove-pipe valve, but rushed from great mouths of
chimneys, brown, hot, glowing, full of spicy smiles of supper below. Down in the kitchen, by
a great log-fire, where irons were heating, sat Oth, feebly knitting, and overseeing a red-armed
Dutch girl cooking venison-steaks and buttermilk-biscuit on the coal-stove beside him.

"Put jelly on de table, you, mind! Strangers here fur tea. Anyhow it ort to go down. Nuffin
but de best ob currant Miss Grey 'ud use in her father's house. Lord save us!"--in an underbreath.
"But it's fur de honor ob de family,"--in a mutter.

"Miss Grey" waited within. Not patiently: sure pleasure was too new for her. She smoothed her
crimson dress, pushed back the sleeves that the white dimpled arms might show, and then bustled
about the room, to tidy it for the hundredth time. A bright winter's room: its owner had a
Southern taste for hot, heartsome colors, you could be sure, and would bring heat and flavor
into his life, too. There were soft astral lamps, and a charred red fire, a warm, unstingy
glow, wasting itself even in long streams of light through the cold windows. There were bright
bits of Turnerish pictures on the gray walls, a mass of gorgeous autumn-leaves in the soft
wool of the carpet, a dainty white-spread table in the middle of the room, jars of flowers
everywhere, flowers that had caught most passion and delight from the sun,--scarlet and purple
fuchsias, heavy-breathed heliotrope. Yet Grey bent longest over her own flower, that every
childlike soul loves best,--mignonette. She chose some of its brown sprigs to fasten in her
hair, the fragrance was so clean and caressing. Paul Blecker, even at the other end of the
field, and in the gathering twilight, caught a glimpse of his wife's face pressed against the
pane. It was altered: the contour more emphatic, the skin paler, the hazel eyes darker, lighted
from farther depths. No glow of color, only in the meaning lips and the fine reddish hair.

Doctor Blecker stopped to help a stout little lady out of a buggy at the stile, then sent the
boy to the stable with it: it was his own, with saddle-bags under the seat. But there was a
better-paced horse in the shafts than suited a heavy country-practice. The lady looked at it
with one eye shut.

"A Morgan-Cottrell, eh? I know by the jaw,"--jogging up the stubble-field beside him, her fat
little satchel rattling as she walked. Doctor Blecker, a trifle graver and more assured than
when we saw him last, sheltered her with his overcoat from the wind, taking it off for that
purpose by the stile. You could see that this woman was one of the few for whom he had respect.

"Your wife understands horses, Doctor. And dogs. I did not expect it of Grey. No. There's more
outcome in her than you give her credit for,"--turning sharply on him.

He smiled quietly, taking her satchel to carry.

"When we came to Pittsburg, I said to Pratt, 'I'll follow you to New York in a day or two,
but I'm going now to see Paul Blecker's little wife. She's sound, into the marrow.' And I'll
tell you, too, what I said to Pratt. 'That is a true marriage, heart and soul and ways of thinking.
God fitted those two into one another.' Some matches, Doctor Blecker, put me in mind of my
man Kellar, making ready the axes for winter's work, little head on big heft, misjoined always:
in consequence, thing breaks apart with no provocation whatever. "When God wants work done
down here, He makes His axes better,--eh?"

There was a slight pause.

"Maybe, now, you'll think I take His name in vain, using it so often. But I like to get at
the gist of a matter, and I generally find God has somewhat to do with everything,--down to
the pleasement, to me, of my bonnet: or the Devil,--which means the same, for he acts by leave.--Where
did you get that Cottrell, Doctor? From Faris? Pha! pha! Grey showed me the look in his face
this morning, innocent, naïf, as all well-blooded horses' eyes are. Like her own, eh? I says
to Pratt, long ago,--twenty he was then,--'When you want a wife, find one who laughs out from
her heart, and see if dogs and horses kinsfolk with her: that's your woman to marry, if they do.'"

They had stopped by the front-steps for her to finish her soliloquy. Grey tapped on the window-pane.

"Yes, yes, I see. You want to go in. But first,"--lowering her voice,--"I was at the Gurney
house this evening."

"You were?" laughed the Doctor, "And what did you do there?"

"Eh? What? Something is needed to be done, and I--Yes, I know my reputation,"--her face flushing.

"You strike the nails where they are needed,--what few women do, Mrs. Sheppard," said the Doctor,
trying to keep his face grave. "Strike them on the head, too."

"Umph!"

No woman likes to be classed properly,--no matter where she belongs.

"I never interfere, Doctor Blecker; I may advise. But, as I was going to say, that father of
Grey's seemed to me such a tadpole of a man, rooting after tracks of lizards that crept ages
ago, while the country is going to mash, and his own children next door to starvation, I thought
a little plain talk would try if it was blood or water in his veins. So I went over to spend
the day there on purpose to give it to him."

"Yes. Well?"

She shrugged her shoulders.

"I see. Then you tried Joseph?"

"No, he is in able hands. That Loo is a thorough-pacer,--after my own heart.--Talking of your
family, my dear," as Grey opened the door. "Loo will do better for them than you. Pardon me,
but a lot of selfish men in a family need to be treated like Pen here, when his stomach is
sour. Give them a little wholesome alkali: honey won't answer."

Grey only laughed. Some day, she thought, when her father had completed his survey of the coal-formation,
and Joseph had induced Congress to stop the war, people would appreciate them. So she took
off Mrs. Sheppard's furs and bonnet, and smoothed the two black shiny puffs of hair, passing
her husband with only a smile, as a stranger was there, but his dressing-gown and slippers
waited by the fire.

"Paul may be at home before you," she said, nodding to them.

Grey had dropped easily through that indefinable change between a young girl and a married
woman: her step was firmer, her smile freer, her head more quietly poised. Some other change,
too, in her look, showed that her affections had grown truer and wider of range than before.
Meaner women's hearts contract after marriage about their husband and children, like an India-rubber
ball thrown into the fire. Hers would enter into his nature as a widening and strengthening
power. Whatever deficiency there might be in her brain, she would infuse energy into his care
for people about him,--into his sympathy for his patients; in a year or two you might be sure
he would think less of Paul Blecker per se, and hate or love fewer men for their opinions than
he did before.

The supper, a solid meal always in these houses, was brought in. Grey took her place with a
blush and a little conscious smile, to which Mrs. Sheppard called Doctor Blecker's attention
by a pursing of her lips, and then, tucking her napkin under her chin, prepared to do justice
to venison and biscuits. She sipped her coffee with an approving nod, dear to a young housekeeper's
soul.

"Good! Grey begins sound, at the foundations, in cooking, Doctor. No shams, child. Don't tolerate
them in housekeeping. If not white sugar, then no cake. If not silver, then not albata. So
you're coming with me to New York, my dear?"

Grey's face flushed.

"Paul says we will go."

"Sister there? Teaching, did you say?"

Doctor Blecker's moustache worked nervously. Lizzy Gurney was not of his kind; now, more than
ever, he would have cut every tie between her and Grey, if he could. But his wife looked up
with a smile.

"She is on the stage,--Lizzy. The opera,--singing;--in choruses only, now,--but it will be
better soon."

Mrs. Sheppard let her bit of bread fall, then ate it with a gulp. Why, every drop of the Shelby
blood was clean and respectable; it was not easy to have an emissary of hell, a tawdry actress,
brought on the carpet before her, with even this mild flourish of trumpets.

The silence grew painful. Grey glanced around quickly, then her Welsh blood made her eyelids
shake a little, and her lips shut. But she said gently,--

"My sister is not albata ware,--that you hate, Mrs. Sheppard. She is no sham. When God said
to her, 'Do this thing,' she did not ask the neighbors to measure it by their rule of right
and wrong."

"Well, well, little Grey,"--with a forbearing smile,--"she is your sister,--you're a clannish
body. Your heart's all right, my dear,"--patting the hard nervous hand that lay on the table,--"but
you never studied theology, that's clear."

"I don't know."

Mrs. Blecker's face grew hot; but that might have been the steam of the coffee-urn.

"We'll be just to Lizzy," said her husband, gravely. "She had a hurt lately. I don't think
she values her life for much now. It is a hungry family, the Gurneys,"--with a quizzical smile.
"My wife, here, kept the wolf from the door almost single-handed, though she don't understand
theology. You are quite right about that. When I came home here two months ago, she would not
be my wife; there was no one to take her place, she said. So, one day, when I was in my office
alone, Lizzy came to me, looking like a dead body out of which the soul had been crushed. She
had been hurt, I told you:--she came to me with an open letter in her hand. It was from the
manager of one of the second-rate opera-troupes. The girl can sing, and has a curious dramatic
talent, her only one.

"'It is all I am capable of doing,' she said. 'If I go, Grey can marry. The family will have
a sure support.'

"Then she folded the letter into odd shapes, with an idiotic look.

"'Do you want me to answer it?' I asked.

"'Yes, I do. Tell him I'll go. Grey can be happy then, and the others will have enough to eat.
I never was of any use before.'

"I knew that well enough. I sat down to write the letter.

"'You will be turned out of church for this,' I said.

"She stood by the window, her finger tracing the rain-drops on the pane, for it was a rainy
night. She said,--

"'They won't understand. God knows.'

"So I wrote on a bit, and then I said,--for I felt sorry for the girl, though she was doing
it for Grey,--I said,--

'"Lizzy, I'll be plain with you. There never was but one human being loved you, perhaps. When
he was dying, he said, "Tell my wife to be true and pure." There is a bare possibility that
you can be both as an opera-singer, but he never would believe it. If you met him in heaven,
he would turn his back on you, if you should do this thing.'

"I could not see her face,--her back was towards me,--but the hand on the window-pane lay there
for a long while motionless, the blood settling blue about the nails. I did not speak to her.
There are some women with whom a physician, if he knows his business, will never meddle when
they grow nervous; they come terribly close to God and the Devil then, I think. I tell you,
Mrs. Sheppard, now and then one of your sex has the vitality and pain and affection of a thousand
souls in one. I hate such women," vehemently.

"Men like you always do," quietly. "But I am not one of them."

"No, nor Grey, thank God! Whoever contrived that allegory of Eve and the apple, though, did
it well. If the Devil came to Lizzy Gurney, he would offer no meaner temptation than 'Ye shall
be as gods, knowing good and evil.'"

"'Allegory'--eh? You forget your story, I think, Doctor Blecker,"--with a frown.

The Doctor stopped to help her to jelly, with a serious face, and then went on. "She turned
round at last. I did not look up at her, only said,--

"'I will not write the letter.'

"'Go on,' she said.

"I wrote it, then; but when I went to give it to her, my heart failed me.

"'Lizzy,' I said, 'you shall not do this thing.'

"She looked so childish and pitiful, standing there!

"'You think you are cutting yourself off from your chance of love through all time by it,--just
for Grey and the others.'

"Her eyes filled at that; she could not bear the kind word, you see.

"'Yes, I do, Doctor Blecker,' she said. 'Nobody ever loved me but Uncle Dan. Since he went
away, I have gone every day to his house, coming nearer to him that way, growing purer, more
like other women. There's a picture of his mother there, and his sister. They are dead now,
but I think their souls looked at me out of those pictures and loved me.'

"She came up, her head hardly reaching to the top of the chair I sat on, half smiling, those
strange gray eyes of hers.

"'I thought they said,--"This is Lizzy: this is the little girl Daniel loves." Every day I'd
kneel down by that dead lady's chair, and pray to God to make me fit to be her son's wife.
But he's dead now,' drawing suddenly back, 'and I am going to be--an opera-singer.'

"'Not unless by your own free will,' I said.

"She did not hear me, I think, pulling at the fastening about her throat.

"'Daniel would say it was the Devil's calling. Daniel was all I had. But he don't know. I know.
God means it. I might have lived on here, keeping myself true to his notions of right: then,
when I went yonder, he would have been kind to me, he would have loved me,'--looking out through
the rain, in a dazed way.

"'The truth is, Lizzy,' I said, 'you have a power within you, and you want to give it vent;
it's like a hungry devil tearing you. So you give up your love-dream, and are going to be an
opera-singer. That's the common-sense of the matter.'

"I sealed the letter, and gave it to her.

"'You think that?'

"That was all she answered. But I'm sorry I said it; I don't know whether it was true or not.
There,--that is the whole story. I never told it to Grey before. You can judge for yourselves."

"My dear," said Mrs. Sheppard, "let me go with you to see your sister in New York. Some more
coffee, please. My cup is cold."

       *       *       *       *       *

A clear, healthy April night: one of those bright, mountain-winded nights of early spring,
when the air is full of electric vigor,--starlight, when the whole earth seems wakening slowly
and grandly into a new life.

Grey, going with her husband and Mrs. Sheppard down Broadway, from their hotel, had a fancy
that the world was so cheerfully, heartily at work, that the night was no longer needed. Overhead,
the wind from the yet frozen hills swept in such strong currents, the great city throbbed with
such infinite kinds of motion, and down in the harbor yonder the rush of couriers came and
went incessantly from the busy world without. Grey was a country-girl: in this throbbing centre
of human life she felt suddenly lost, atom-like,--drew her breath quickly, as she clung to
Paul's arm. The world was so vast, was hurrying on so fast. She must get to work in earnest:
why, one must justify her right to live, here.

Mrs. Sheppard, as she plodded solidly along, took in the whole blue air and outgoing ocean,
and the city, with its white palaces and gleaming lights.

"People look happy here," she said. "Even Grey laughs more, going down the streets. Nothing
talks of the war here."

Paul looked down into the brown depths of the eyes that were turned towards him.

"It is a good, cheery world, ours, after all. More laughing than crying in it,--when people
find out their right place, and get into it."

Mrs. Sheppard said, "Umph?" Kentuckians don't like abstract propositions.

They stopped before a wide-open door, in a by-street. Not an opera-house; one of the haunts
of the "legitimate drama," Yet the posters assured the public in every color, that La petite
Élise, the beautiful débutante, etc., etc., would sing, etc., etc. Grey's hand tightened on
her husband's arm.

"This is the place,"--her face burning scarlet.

A pretty little theatre: softly lighted, well and quietly filled. Quietly toned, too, the dresses
of the women in the boxes,--of that neutral, subdued caste that showed they belonged to the
grade above fashion. People of rank tastes did not often go there. The little Kentuckian, with
her emphatic, sham-hating face, and Grey, whose simple, calm outlook on the world made her
last year's bonnet and cloak dwindle into such irrelevant trifles, did not misbecome the place.
Others might go there to fever out ennui, or with fouler fancies. Grey did not know. The play
was a simple little thing; its meaning was pure as a child's song; there was a good deal of
fun in it. Grey laughed with everybody else; she would ask God to bless her to-night none the
worse for that. It had some touches of pathos in it, and she cried, and saw some men about
her with the smug New-York-city face doing the very same,--not just as she did, but glowering
at the footlights, and softly blowing their noses. Then the music came, and La petite Élise.
Grey drew back where she could not see her. Blecker peered through his glass at every line
and motion, as she came out from the eternal castle in the back scene. Any gnawing power or
gift she had had found vent, certainly, now. Every poise and inflection said, "Here I am what
I am,--fully what God made me, at last: no more, no less." God had made her an actress. Why,
He knows. The Great Spirit of Love says to the toad in your gutter,--"Thou, too, art my servant,
in whom, fulfilling the work I give, I am well pleased."

La petite Élise had only a narrow and peculiar scope of power, suited to vaudevilles: she could
not represent her own character,--an actress's talent and heart being as widely separated,
in general, as yours are. She could bring upon the stage in her body the presentment of a naïve,
innocent, pathetic nature, and use the influence such nature might have on the people outside
the orchestra-chairs there. It was not her own nature, we know. She dressed and looked it.
A timid little thing, in her fluttering white slip, her light hair cut close to her head, in
short curls. So much for the actress and her power.

She sang at last. She sang ballads generally, (her voice wanting cultivation,) such as agreed
with her rôle. But it was Lizzy Gurney who sang, not la petite Élise.

"Of course," a society-mother said to me, one day, "I do not wish my Rosa should have a great
sorrow, but--how it would develop her voice!" The bonnet-worshipper stumbled on a great truth.

So with Lizzy: life had taught her; and the one bitter truth of self-renunciation she had wrung
out of it must tell itself somehow. No man's history is dumb. It came out vaguely, an inarticulate
cry to God and man, in the songs she sang, I think. That very night, as she stood there with
her gray eyes very sparkling and happy, (they were dramatic eyes, and belonged to her brain,)
and her baby-hands crossed archly before her, her voice made those who listened quite forget
her: la petite Élise took them up to the places where men's souls struggle with the Evil One
and conquer. A few, perhaps, understood that full meaning of her song: if there was one, it
was well she was an actress and sang it.

"I'm damned," growled a fellow in the pit, "if she a'n't a good little thing!" when the song
was ended. There was not a soul in the house that did not think the same. Yet the girl turned
fiercely towards the side-scenes, hearing it, and pitied herself at that,--that she, a woman,
should stand before the public for them to examine and chatter over her soul and her history,
and her very dress and shoes. But that was gone in a moment, and Lizzy laughed,--naturally
now. Why, they were real friends, heart-warm to her there: when they laughed and cried with
her, she knew it. Many of their faces she knew well: that pale lady's in the third box, who
brought her boys so often, and gave them a bouquet to throw to Lizzy,--always white flowers;
and the old grandfather yonder, with the pretty, chubby-faced girls. The girl's thought now
was earnest and healthful, as everybody's grows, who succeeds in discovering his real work.
They encored her song: when she began, she looked up and balked suddenly, her very neck turning
crimson. She had seen Doctor Blecker. "A tawdry actress!" She could have torn her stage-dress
in rags from her. Then her tone grew low and clear.

There was a young couple just facing her with a little child, a dainty baby-thing in cap and
plume. Neither of them listened to Lizzy: the mother was tying the little fellow's shoe as
he hoisted it on the seat, and the father was looking at her. "I missed my chance," said Lizzy
Gurney, in her heart. "Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in Thy sight!" A tawdry actress.
She might have stayed at home yonder, quiet and useless: that might have been. Then she thought
of Grey, well beloved,--of the other house, full of hungry mouths she was feeding. Looking
more sharply at Doctor Blecker while she sang, she saw Grey beside him, drawn back behind a
pillar. Presently she saw her take the glass from her husband and lean forward. There was a
red heat under her eyes: she had been crying. They applauded Lizzy just then, and Grey looked
around frightened, and then laughed nervously.

"How beautiful she is! Do you see? Oh, Paul! Mrs. Sheppard, do you see?"--tearing her fan,
and drawing heavy breaths, moving on her seat constantly.

"She never loved me heartily before," thought Lizzy, as she sang. "I never deserved it. I was
a heartless dog. I"--

People applauded again, the old grandfather this time nodding to the girls. There was something
so cheery and healthy and triumphant in the low tones. Even the young mother looked up suddenly
from her boy, listening, and glanced at her husband. It was like a Christmas-song.

"She never loved me before. I deserve it."

That was what she said in it. But they did not know.

Doctor Blecker looked at her, unsmiling, critical. She could see, too, a strange face beside
him,--a motherly, but a keen, harsh-judging face.

"Grey," said Mrs. Sheppard, "I wish we could go behind the scenes. Can we? I want to talk to
Lizzy this minute."

"To tell her she is at the Devil's work, Mrs. Sheppard, eh?"

Doctor Blecker pulled at his beard, angrily.

"Suppose you and I let her alone. We don't understand her."

"I think I do. God help her!"

"We will go round when the song is over," said Grey, gently.

Lizzy, scanning their faces, scanning every face in pit or boxes, discerned a good will and
wish on each. Something wholesome and sound in her heart received it, half afraid.

"I don't know," she thought.

One of the windows was open, and out beyond the gas-light and smells of the theatre she could
see a glimpse of far space, with the eternal stars shining. There had been once a man who loved
her: he, looking down, could see her now. If she had stayed at home, selfish and useless, there
might have been a chance for her yonder.

Her song was ended; as she drew back, she glanced up again through the fresh air.

They were curious words the soul of the girl cried out to God in that dumb moment:--"Even as
the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom
for many." Yet in that moment a new feeling came to the girl,--a peace that never left her
afterwards.

An actress: but she holds her work bravely and healthily and well in her grasp, with her foot
always on a grave, as one might say, and God very near above. And it may be, that, when her
work is nearer done, and she comes closer to the land where all things are clearly seen at
last in their real laws, she will know that the faces of those who loved her wait kindly for
her, and of whatever happiness has been given to them they will not deem her quite unworthy.

Perhaps they have turned Lizzy out of the church. I do not know. But her Friend, the world's
Christ, they could not make dead to her by shutting him up in formula or church. He never was
dead. From the girding sepulchre he passed to save the spirits long in prison; and from the
visible church now he lives and works out from every soul that has learned, like Lizzy, the
truths of life,--to love, to succor, to renounce.

       *       *       *       *       *

BY THE RIVER.

I.

    In the beautiful greenwood's charmed light,
    And down through the meadows wide and bright,
    Deep in the silence, and smooth in the gleam,
    For ever and ever flows the stream.

    Where the mandrakes grow, and the pale, thin grass
    The airy scarf of the woodland weaves,
    By dim, enchanted paths I pass,
    Crushing the twigs and the last year's leaves.

    Over the wave, by the crystal brink,
    A kingfisher sits on a low, dead limb:
    He is always sitting there, I think,--
    And another, within the crystal brink,
    Is always looking up at him.

    I know where an old tree leans across
    From bank to bank, an ancient tree,
    Quaintly cushioned with curious moss,
    A bridge for the cool wood-nymphs and me:
    Half seen they flit, while here I sit
    By the magical water, watching it.

    In its bosom swims the fair phantasm
    Of a subterraneous azure chasm,
    So soft and clear, you would say the stream
    Was dreaming of heaven a visible dream.

    Where the noontide basks, and its warm rays tint
    The nettles and clover and scented mint,
    And the crinkled airs, that curl and quiver,
    Drop their wreaths in the mirroring river,--
    Under the shaggy magnificent drapery
    Of many a wild-woven native grapery,--
    By ivy-bowers, and banks of violets,
    And golden hillocks, and emerald islets,
    Along its sinuous shining bed,
    In sheets of splendor it lies outspread.

    In the twilight stillness and solitude
    Of green caves roofed by the brooding wood,
    Where the woodbine swings, and beneath the trailing
    Sprays of the queenly elm-tree sailing,--
    By ribbed and wave-worn ledges shimmering,
    Gilding the rocks with a rippled glimmering,
    All pictured over in shade and sun,
    The wavering silken waters run.

    Upon this mossy trunk I sit,
    Over the river, watching it.
    A shadowed face peers up at me;
    And another tree in the chasm I see,
    Clinging above the abyss it spans;
    The broad boughs curve their spreading fans,
    From side to side, in the nether air;
    And phantom birds in the phantom branches
    Mimic the birds above; and there,
    Oh I far below, solemn and slow,
    The white clouds roll the crumbling snow
    Of ever-pendulous avalanches,
    Till the brain grows giddy, gazing through
    Their wild, wide rifts of bottomless blue.

    II.

    Through the river, and through the rifts
    Of the sundered earth I gaze,
    While Thought on dreamy pinion drifts,
    Over cerulean bays,
    Into the deep ethereal sea
    Of her own serene eternity.

    Transfigured by my tranced eye,
    Wood and meadow, and stream and sky,
    Like vistas of a vision lie:
    THE WORLD is the River that flickers by.

    Its skies are the blue-arched centuries;
    And its forms are the transient images
    Flung on the flowing film of Time
    By the steadfast shores of a fadeless clime.

    As yonder wave-side willows grow,
    Substance above, and shadow below,
    The golden slopes of that upper sphere
    Hang their imperfect landscapes here.

    Fast by the Tree of Life, which shoots
    Duplicate forms from self-same roots,
    Under the fringes of Paradise,
    The crystal brim of the River lies.

    There are banks of Peace, whose lilies pure
    Paint on the wave their portraiture;
    And many a holy influence,
    That climbs to God like the breath of prayer,
    Creeps quivering into the glass of sense,
    To bless the immortals mirrored there.

    Through realms of Poesy, whose white cliffs
    Cloud its deeps with their hieroglyphs,
    Alpine fantasies heaped and wrought
    At will by the frolicsome winds of Thought,--
    By shores of Beauty, whose colors pass
    Faintly into the misty glass,--
    By hills of Truth, whose glories show
    Distorted, broken, and dimmed, as we know,--
    Kissed by the tremulous long green tress
    Of the glistening tree of Happiness,
    Which ever our aching grasp eludes
    With sweet illusive similitudes,--
    All pictured over in shade and gleam,
    For ever and ever runs the Stream.

    The orb that burns in the rifts of space
    Is the adumbration of God's Face.
    My Soul leans over the murmuring flow,
    And I am the image it sees below.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GROWTH OF CONTINENTS.

Before entering upon a sketch of the growth of the European Continent from the earliest times
until it reached its present dimensions and outlines, I will say something of the growth of
continents in general, connecting these remarks with a few words of explanation respecting
some geological terms, which, although in constant use, are nevertheless not clearly defined.
I will explain, at the outset, the meaning I attach to them and the sense in which I use them,
that there may be no misunderstanding between me and my readers on this point. The words Age,
Epoch, Period, Formation, may be found on almost every page of any modern work on geology;
but if we sift the matter carefully, we shall find that there is a great uncertainty as to
the significance of these terms, and that scarcely any two geologists use them in the same
sense. Indeed, I shall not be held blameless in this respect myself; for, on looking over preceding
articles, I find that I have, from old habit, used somewhat indiscriminately names which should
have a perfectly definite and invariable meaning.

As long as zoölogical nomenclature was uncontrolled by any principle, the same vagueness and
indecision prevailed here also. The words Genus, Order, Class, as well as those applied to
the most comprehensive division of all in the animal kingdom, the primary branches or types,
were used indiscriminately, and often allowed to include under one name animals differing essentially
in their structural character. It is only since it has been found that all these groups are
susceptible of limitation, according to distinct categories of structure, that our nomenclature
has assumed a more precise and definite significance. Even now there is still some inconsistency
among zoölogists as to the use of special terms, arising from their individual differences
in appreciating, structural features; but I believe it to be, nevertheless, true, that general
orders, classes, etc., are not merely larger or smaller groups of the same kind, but are really
based upon distinct categories of structure. As soon as such a principle is admitted in geology,
and investigators recognize certain physical and organic conditions, more or less general in
their action, as characteristic of all those chapters in geological history designated as Ages,
Epochs, Periods, Formations, etc., all vagueness will vanish from the scientific nomenclature
of this department also, and there will be no hesitation as to the use of words for which we
shall then have a positive, definite meaning.

Although the fivefold division of Werner, by which he separated the rocks into Primitive, Transition,
Secondary, Alluvial, and Volcanic, proved to be based on a partial misapprehension of the nature
of the earth-crust, yet it led to their subsequent division into the three great groups now
known as the Primary, or Palaeozoic, as they are sometimes called, because here are found the
first organic remains, the Secondary, and the Tertiary. I have said in a previous article that
the general unity of character prevailing throughout these three divisions, so that, taken
from the broadest point of view, each one seems a unit in time, justifies the application to
them of that term, Age, by which we distinguish in human history those periods marked throughout
by one prevailing tendency;--as we say the age of Egyptian or Greek or Roman civilization,--the
age of stone or iron or bronze. I believe that this division of geological history into these
great sections or chapters is founded upon a recognition of the general features by which they
are characterized.

Passing over the time when the first stratified deposits were accumulated under a universal
ocean in which neither animals nor plants existed, there was an age in the physical history
of the world when the lands consisted of low islands,--when neither great depths nor lofty
heights diversified the surface of the earth,--when both the animal and vegetable creation,
however numerous, was inferior to the later ones, and comparatively uniform in character,--when
marine Cryptogams were the highest plants, and Fishes were the highest animals. And this broad
statement holds good for the whole of that time, even though it was not without its minor changes,
its new forms of animal and vegetable life, its variations of level, its upheavals and subsidences;
for, nevertheless, through its whole duration, it was the age of low detached lands,--it was
the age of Cryptogams,--it was the age of Fishes. From its beginning to its close, no higher
type in the animal kingdom, no loftier group in the vegetable world, made its appearance.

There was an age in the physical history of the world when the patches of land already raised
above the water became so united as to form large islands; and though the aspect of the earth
retained its insular character, yet the size of the islands, their tendency to coalesce by
the addition of constantly increasing deposits, and thus to spread into wider expanses of dry
land, marked the advance toward the formation of continents. This extension of the dry land
was brought about not only by the gradual accumulation of materials, but also by the upheaval
of large tracts of stratified deposits; for, though the loftiest mountain-chains did not yet
exist, ranges like those of the Alleghanies and the Jura belong to this division of the world's
history. During this time, the general character of the animal and vegetable kingdoms was higher
than during the previous age. Reptiles, many and various, gigantic in size, curious in form,
some of them recalling the structure of fishes, others anticipating birdlike features, gave
a new character to the animal world, while in the vegetable world the reign of the aquatic
Cryptogams was over, and terrestrial Cryptogams, and, later, Gymnosperms and Monocotyledonous
trees, clothed the earth with foliage. Such was the character of this second age from its opening
to its close; and though there are indications, that, before it was wholly past, some low,
inferior Mammalian types of the Marsupial kind were introduced,[2] and also a few Dicotyledonous
plants, yet they were not numerous or striking enough to change the general aspect of the organic
world. This age was throughout, in its physical formation, the age of large continental islands;
while in its organic character it was the age of Reptiles as the highest animal type, and of
Gymnosperms and Monocotyledonous plants as the highest vegetable groups.

    [Footnote 2: I say nothing of the traces of Birds in the Secondary
    deposits, because the so-called bird-tracks seem to me of very
    doubtful character; and it is also my opinion that the remains of
    a feathered animal recently found in the Solenhofen lithographic
    limestone, and believed to be a bird by some naturalists, do not
    belong to a genuine bird, but to one of those synthetic types
    before alluded to, in which reptilian structure is combined with
    certain birdlike features.]

There was an age in the physical history of the world when great ranges of mountains bound
together in everlasting chains the islands which had already grown to continental dimensions,--when
wide tracts of land, hitherto insular in character, became soldered into one by the upheaval
of Plutonic masses which stretched across them all and riveted them forever with bolts of granite,
of porphyry, and of basalt. Thus did the Rocky Mountains and the Andes bind together North
and South America; the Pyrenees united Spain to France; the Alps, the Caucasus, and the Himalayas
bound Europe to Asia. The class of Mammalia were now at the head of the animal kingdom; huge
quadrupeds possessed the earth, and dwelt in forests characterized by plants of a higher order
than any preceding ones,--the Beeches, Birches, Maples, Oaks, and Poplars of the Tertiaries.
But though the continents had assumed their permanent outlines, extensive tracts of land still
remained covered with ocean. Inland seas, sheets of water like the Mediterranean, so unique
in our world, were then numerous. Physically speaking, this was the age of continents broken
by large inland seas; while in the organic world it was the age of Mammalia among animals,
and of extensive Dicotyledonous forests among plants. In a certain sense it was the age of
completion,--the one which ushered in the crowning work of creation.

There was an age in the physical history of the world (it is in its infancy still) when Man,
with the animals and plants that were to accompany him, was introduced upon the globe, which
had acquired all its modern characters. At last the continents were redeemed from the water,
and all the earth was given to this new being for his home. Among all the types born into the
animal kingdom before, there had never been one to which positive limits had not been set by
a law of geographical distribution absolutely impassable to all. For Man alone those boundaries
were removed. He, with the domestic animals and plants which were to be the companions of all
his pilgrimages, could wander over the whole earth and choose his home. Placed at the head
of creation, gifted with intellect to make both animals and plants subservient to his destinies,
his introduction upon the earth marks the last great division in the history of our planet.
To designate these great divisions in time, I would urge, for the reasons above stated, that
the term which is indeed often, though not invariably, applied to them, be exclusively adopted,--that
of the Ages of Nature.

But these Ages are themselves susceptible of subdivisions, which should also be accurately
defined. What is the nature of these subdivisions? They are all connected with sudden physical
changes in the earth's surface, more or less limited in their action, these changes being themselves
related to important alterations in the organic world. Although I have stated that one general
character prevailed during each of the Ages, yet there was nevertheless a constant progressive
action running through them all, and at various intervals both the organic and the physical
world received a sudden impulse in consequence of marked and violent changes in the earth-crust,
bringing up new elevations, while at the same time the existing animal creation was brought
to a close, and a new set of beings was introduced. These changes are not yet accurately defined
in America, because the age of her mountains is not known with sufficient accuracy; but their
limits have been very extensively traced in Europe, and this coincidence of the various upheavals
with the introduction of a new population differing entirely from, the preceding one has been
demonstrated so clearly that it may be considered as an ascertained law. What name, then, is
most appropriate for the divisions thus marked by sudden and violent changes? It seems to me,
from their generally accepted meaning, that the word Epoch or Era, both of which have been
widely, though indiscriminately, used in geology, is especially applicable here. In their common
use, they imply a condition of things determined by some decisive event. In speaking of human
affairs, we say, "It was an epoch or an era in history,"--or in a more limited sense, "It was
an epoch in the life of such or such a man." It at once conveys the idea of an important change
connected with or brought about by some striking occurrence. Such were those divisions in the
history of the earth when a violent convulsion in the surface of the globe and a change in
its inhabitants ushered in a new aspect of things.

I have said that we owe to Élie de Beaumont the discovery of this connection between the successive
upheavals and the different sets of animals and plants which have followed each other on the
globe. We have seen in the preceding article upon the formation of mountains, that the dislocations
thus produced show the interruptions between successive deposits: as, for instance, where certain
strata are raised upon the sides of a mountain, while other strata rest unconformably, as it
is called, above them at its base,--this term, unconformable, signifying merely that the two
sets of strata are placed at an entirely different angle, and must therefore belong to two
distinct sets of deposits. But there are two series of geological facts connected with this
result which are often confounded, though they arise from very different causes. One is that
described above, in which a certain series of beds having been raised out of their natural
horizontal position, another series has been deposited upon them, thus resting unconformably
above. The other is where, one set of beds having been deposited over any given region, at
a later time, in consequence of a recession of the sea-shore, for instance, or of some other
gradual disturbance of the surface, the next set of beds accumulated above them cover a somewhat
different area, and are therefore not conformable with the first, though parallel with them.
This difference, however slight, is sufficient to show that some shifting of the ground on
which they were accumulated must have taken place between the two series of deposits.

This distinction must not be confounded with that made by Élie de Beaumont: we owe it to D'Orbigny,
who first pointed out the importance of distinguishing the dislocations produced by gradual
movements of the earth from those caused by mountain-upheavals. The former are much more numerous
than the latter, and in every epoch geologists have distinguished a number of such changes
in the surface of the earth, accompanied by the introduction of a new set of animals, though
the changes in the organic world are not so striking as those which coincide with the mountain-upheavals.
Still, to the eye of the geologist they are quite as distinct, though less evident to the ordinary
observer. To these divisions it seems to me that the name of Period is rightly applied, because
they seem to have been brought about by the steady action of time, and by gradual changes,
rather than by any sudden or violent convulsion.

It was my good fortune to be in some degree connected with the investigations respecting the
limitation of Periods, for which the geology of Switzerland afforded peculiar facilities. My
early home was near the foot of the Jura, where I constantly faced its rounded domes, and the
slope by which they gently descend to the plain of Switzerland. I have heard it said that there
is something monotonous in the continuous undulations of this range, so different from the
opposite one of the Alps. But I think it is only by contrast that it seems wanting in vigor
and picturesqueness; and those who live in its neighborhood become very much attached to the
more peaceful character of its scenery. Perhaps my readers will pardon the digression, if I
interrupt our geological discussion for a moment, to offer them a word of advice, though it
be uncalled for. I have often been asked by friends who were intending to go to Europe what
is the most favorable time in the day and the best road to enter Switzerland in order to have
at once the finest impression of the mountains. My answer is always,--Enter it in the afternoon
over the Jura. If you are fortunate, and have one of the bright, soft afternoons that sometimes
show the Alps in their full beauty, as you descend the slope of the Jura, from which you command
the whole panorama of the opposite range, you may see, as the day dies, the last shadow pass
with strange rapidity from peak to peak of the Alpine summits. The passage is so rapid, so
sudden, as the shadow vanishes from one height and appears on the next, that it seems like
the step of some living spirit of the mountains. Then, as the sun sinks, it sheds a brilliant
glow across them, and upon that follows--strangest effect of all--a sudden pallor, an ashy
paleness on the mountains, that has a ghastly, chilly look. But this is not their last aspect:
after the sun has vanished out of sight, in place of the glory of his departure, and of the
corpse-like pallor which succeeded it, there spreads over the mountains a faint blush that
dies gradually into the night. These changes--the glory, the death, the soft succeeding life--really
seem like something that has a spiritual existence. While, however, I counsel my friends to
see the Alps for the first time in the afternoon, if possible, I do not promise them that the
hour will bring with it such a scene as I have tried to describe. Perfect sunsets are rare
in any land; but, nevertheless, I would advise travellers to choose the latter half of the
day and a road over the Jura for their entrance into Switzerland.[3]

    [Footnote 3: The two most imposing views of the Alps from the Jura
    are those of Latourne, on the road from Pontarlier to Neufchatel,
    and of St. Cergues, on the road from Lons le Saulnier to Nyon; the
    next best is to be had above Boujean, on the road from Basle to
    Bienne. Very extensive views may be obtained from any of the
    summits in the southern range of the Jura; among which the
    Weissenstein above Soleure, the Chasseral above Bienne, the
    Chanmont above Neufchatel, the Chasseron above Grançon, the Suchet
    above Orbe, the Mont Tendre or the Noirmont above Morges, and the
    Dôle above Nyon, are the most frequented. Of all these pointe
    Chaumont is unquestionably to be preferred, as it commands at the
    same time an equally extensive view of the Bernese Alps and the
    Mont Blanc range.]

It was from the Jura itself that one of the great epochs in the history of the globe received
its name. It was in a deep gorge of the Jura, that, more than half a century ago, Leopold von
Buch first perceived the mode of formation of mountains; and it was at the foot of the Jura,
in the neighborhood of Neufchatel, that the investigations were made which first led to the
recognition of the changes connected with the Periods. As I shall have occasion hereafter to
enter into this subject more at length, I will only allude briefly here to the circumstances.
In so doing I am anticipating the true geological order, because I must treat of the Jurassic
and Cretaceous deposits, which are still far in advance of us; but as it was by the study of
these deposits that the circumscription of the Periods, as I have defined them above, was first
ascertained, I must allude to them in this connection.

Facing the range of the Jura from the Lake of Neufchatel, there seems to be but one uninterrupted
slope by which it descends to the shore of the lake. It will, however, be noticed by the most
careless observer that this slope is divided by the difference in vegetation into two strongly
marked bands of color: the lower and more gradual descent being of a lighter green, while the
upper portion is covered by the deeper hue of the forest-trees, the Beeches, Birches, Maples,
etc., above which come the Pines. When the vegetation is fully expanded, this marked division
along the whole side of the range into two broad bands of green, the lighter below and the
darker above, becomes very striking. The lighter band represents the cultivated portion of
the slope, the vineyards, the farms, the orchards, covering the gentler, more gradual part
of the descent; and the whole of this cultivated tract, stretching a hundred miles east and
west, belongs to the Cretaceous epoch. The upper slope of the range, where the forest-growth
comes in, is Jurassic. Facing the range, you do not, as I have said, perceive any difference
in the angle of inclination; but the border-line between the two bands of green does in fact
mark the point at which the Cretaceous beds abut with a gentler slope against the Jurassic
strata, which continue their sharper descent, and are lost to view beneath them.

This is one of the instances in which the contact of two epochs is most directly traced. There
is no question, from the relation of the deposits, that the Jura in its upheaval carried with
it the strata previously accumulated. At its base there was then no lake, but an extensive
stretch of ocean; for the whole plain of Switzerland was under water, and many thousand years
elapsed before the Alps arose to set a new boundary to the sea and inclose that inland sheet
of water, gradually to be filled up by more modern accumulations, and transformed into the
fertile plain which now lies between the Jura and the Alps. If the reader will for a moment
transport himself in imagination to the time when the southern side of the Jurassic range sloped
directly down to the ocean, he will easily understand how this second series of deposits was
collected at its base, as materials are collected now along any sea-shore. They must, of course,
have been accumulated horizontally, since no loose materials could keep their place even at
so moderate an angle as that of the present lower slope of the range; but we shall see hereafter
that there were many subsequent perturbations of this region, and that these Cretaceous deposits,
after they had become consolidated, were raised by later upheavals from their original position
to that which they now occupy on the lower slope of the Jura, resting immediately, but in geological
language unconformably, against it. The two adjoining wood-cuts are merely theoretical, showing
by lines the past and the present relation of these deposits; but they may assist the reader
to understand my meaning.

Figure 1 represents the Jura before the Alps were raised, with the Cretaceous deposits accumulating
beneath the sea at its base. The line marked S indicates the ocean-level; the letter c, the
Cretaceous deposits; the letter j, the Jurassic strata, lifted on the side of the mountain.

Figure 2 represents the Jura at the present time, when the later upheavals have lifted the
Jurassic strata to a sharper inclination with the Cretaceous deposits, now raised and forming
the lower slope of the mountain, at the base of which is the Lake of Neufchatel.

Although this change of inclination is hardly perceptible, as one looks up against the face
of the Jura range, there is a transverse cut across it which seems intended to give us a diagram
of its internal structure. Behind the city of Neufchatel rises the mountain of Chaumont, so
called from its bald head, for neither tree nor shrub grows on its summit. Straight through
this mountain, from its northern to its southern side, there is a natural road, formed by a
split in the mountain from top to bottom. In this transverse cut, which forms one of the most
romantic and picturesque gorges leading into the heart of the Jura range, you get a profile
view of the change in the inclination of the strata, and can easily distinguish the point of
juncture between the two sets of deposits. But even after this dislocation of strata had been
perceived, it was not known that it indicated the commencement of a new epoch, and it is here
that my own share in the work, such as it is, belongs. Accustomed as a boy to ramble about
in the beautiful gorges and valleys of the Jura, and in riper years, as my interest in science
increased, to study its formation with closer attention, this difference in the inclination
of the slope had not escaped my observation. I was, however, still more attracted by the fossils
it contained than by its geological character: and, indeed, there is no better locality for
the study of extinct forms of life than the Jura. In all its breaks and ravines, wherever the
inner surface of the rock is exposed, it is full of organic remains; and to take a handful
of soil from the road-side is often to gather a handful of shells. It is actually built of
the remains of animals, and there are no coral reefs in existing seas presenting a better opportunity
for study to the naturalist than the coral reefs of the Jura. Being already tolerably familiar
with the fossils of the Jura, it occurred to me to compare those of the upper and lower slope;
and to my surprise I found that they were everywhere different, and that those of the lower
slope were invariably Cretaceous in character, while those of the upper slope were Jurassic.
In the course of this investigation I discovered three periods in the Cretaceous and four in
the Jurassic epoch, all characterized by different fossils. This led to a more thorough investigation
of the different sets of strata, resulting in the establishment by D'Orbigny of a still greater
number of periods, marked by the successive deposits of the Jurassic and Cretaceous seas, all
of which contained different organic remains. The attention of geologists being once turned
in this direction, the other epochs were studied with the same view, and all were found to
be susceptible of division into a greater or less number of such periods.

I have dwelt at greater length on the Jurassic and Cretaceous divisions, because I believe
that we have in the relation of these two epochs, as well as in that of the Cretaceous epoch
with the Tertiary immediately following it, facts which are very important in their bearing
on certain questions, now loudly discussed, not only by scientific men, but by all who are
interested in the mode of origin of animals. Certainly, in the inland seas of the Cretaceous
and subsequent Tertiary times, where we can trace in the same sheet of water not only the different
series of deposits belonging to two successive epochs in immediate juxtaposition, but those
belonging to all the periods included within these epochs, with the organic remains contained
in each,--there, if anywhere, we should be able to trace the transition-types by which one
set of animals is said to have been developed out of the preceding. We hear a great deal of
the interruption in geological deposits, of long intervals, the record of which has vanished,
and which may contain those intermediate links for which we vainly seek. But here there is
no such gap in the evidence. In the very same sheets of water, covering limited areas, we have
the successive series of deposits containing the remains of animals which continue perfectly
unchanged during long intervals, and then, with a more or less violent shifting of the surface,[4]
traceable by the consequent discordance of the strata, is introduced an entirely new set of
animals, differing as much from those immediately preceding them as do those of the present
period from the old Creation, (our predecessors, but not our ancestors,) traced by Cuvier in
the Tertiary deposits underlying those of our own geological age. I subjoin here a tabular
view giving the Epochs in their relation to the Ages, and indicating, at least approximately,
the number of Periods contained in each Epoch.

    [Footnote 4: I use surface often in its geological significance,
    meaning earth-crust, and applied to sea-bottom as well as to dry
    land.]

Age of Man                  Present.

Tertiary Age:             { Pliocene      }
  Age of Mammalia         { Miocene       }  with at least twelve Periods.
                          { Eocene        }

Secondary Age:            { Cretaceous    }
  Age of Reptiles         { Jurassic      }  with at least twenty Periods.
                          {
                          { Triassic      }
                          { Permian       }  with eight or nine Periods.
                          { Carboniferous }

Palæozoic or Primary Age: { Devonian      }
  Age of Fishes           { Silurian      }  with ten or twelve Periods.

It will be noticed by those who have any knowledge of geological divisions, that in this diagram
I consider the Carboniferous epoch as forming a part of the Secondary age. Some geologists
have been inclined, from the marked and peculiar character of its vegetation, to set it apart
as forming in itself a distinct geological age, while others have united it with the Palæozoic
age. For many years I myself adopted the latter of these two views, and associated the Carboniferous
epoch with the Palæozoic age. But it is the misfortune of progress that one is forced not only
to unlearn a great deal, but, if one has been in the habit of communicating his ideas to others,
to destroy much of his own work. I now find myself in this predicament; and after teaching
my students for years that the Carboniferous epoch belongs to the Palæozoic or Primary age,
I am convinced--and this conviction grows upon me constantly as I free myself from old prepossessions
and bias on the subject--that with the Carboniferous epoch we have the opening of the Secondary
age in the history of the world. A more intimate acquaintance with organic remains has shown
me that there is a closer relation between the character of the animal and vegetable world
of the Carboniferous epoch, as compared with that of the Permian and Triassic epochs, than
between that of the Carboniferous epoch and any preceding one. Neither do I see any reason
for separating it from the others as a distinct age. The plants as well as the animals of the
two subsequent epochs seem to me to show, on the contrary, the same pervading character, indicating
that the Carboniferous epoch makes an integral part of that great division which I have characterized
as the Secondary age.

Within the Periods there is a still more limited kind of geological division, founded upon
the special character of local deposits. These I would call geological Formations, indicating
concrete local deposits, having no cosmic character, but circumscribed within comparatively
narrow areas, as distinguished from the other terms, Ages, Epochs, Periods, which have a more
universal meaning, and are, as it were, cosmopolitan in their application. Let me illustrate
my meaning by some formations of the present time. The accumulations along the coast of Florida
are composed chiefly of coral sand, mixed of course with the remains of the animals belonging
to that locality; those along the coast of the Southern States consist principally of loam,
which the rivers bring down from their swamps and low, muddy grounds; those upon the shores
of the Middle States are made up of clay from the disintegration of the eastern slopes of the
Alleghanies; while those farther north, along our own coast, are mostly formed of sand from
the New-England granites. Such deposits are the local work of one period, containing the organic
remains belonging to the time and place. From the geological point of view, I would call them
Formations; from the naturalist's point of view, I would call them Zoölogical Provinces.

Of course, in urging the application of these names, I do not intend to assume any dictatorship
in the matter of geological nomenclature. But I do feel very strongly the confusion arising
from an indiscriminate use of terms, and that, whatever names be selected as most appropriate
or descriptive for these divisions, geologists should agree to use them in the same sense.

There is one other geological term, bequeathed to us by a great authority, and which cannot
be changed for the better: I mean that of Geological Horizon, applied by Humboldt to the whole
extent of any one geological division,--as, for instance, the Silurian horizon, including the
whole extent of the Silurian epoch. It indicates one level in time, as the horizon which limits
our view indicates the farthest extension of the plain on which we stand in space.

       *       *       *       *       *

We left America at the close of the Carboniferous epoch, when the central part of the United
States was already raised above the water. Let us now give a glance at Europe in those early
days, and see how far her physical history has advanced. What European countries loom up for
us out of the Azoic sea, corresponding in time and character to the low range of hills which
first defined the northern boundary of the United States? what did the Silurian and Devonian
epochs add to these earliest tracts of dry land in the Old World? and where do we find the
coal basins which show us the sites of her Carboniferous forests? Since the relation between
the epochs of comparative tranquillity and the successive upheavals has been so carefully traced
in Europe, I will endeavor, while giving a sketch of that early European world, to point out,
at the same time, the connection of the different systems of upheaval with the successive stratified
deposits, without, however, entering into such details as must necessarily become technical
and tedious.

In the European ocean of the Azoic epoch we find five islands of considerable size. The largest
of these is at the North. Scandinavia had even then almost her present outlines; for Norway,
Sweden, Finland, and Lapland, all of which are chiefly granitic in character, were among the
first lands to be raised. Between Sweden and Norway, there is, however, still a large tract
of land under water, forming an extensive lake or a large inland sea in the heart of the country.
If the reader will take the trouble to look on any geological map of Europe, he will see an
extensive patch of Silurian rock in the centre of Sweden and Norway. This represents that sheet
of water gradually to be filled by the accumulation of Silurian deposits and afterwards raised
by a later disturbance. There is another mass of land far to the southeast of this Scandinavian
island, which we may designate as the Bohemian island, for it lies in the region now called
Bohemia, though it includes, also, a part of Saxony and Moravia. The northwest corner of France,
that promontory which we now call Bretagne, with a part of Normandy adjoining it, formed another
island; while to the southeast of it lay the central plateau of France. Great Britain was not
forgotten in this early world; for a part of the Scotch hills, some of the Welsh mountains,
and a small elevation here and there in Ireland, already formed a little archipelago in that
region. By a most careful analysis of the structure of the rocks in these ancient patches of
land, tracing all the dislocations of strata, all the indications of any disturbance of the
earth-crust whatsoever, Élie de Beaumont has detected and classified four systems of upheavals,
previous to the Silurian epoch, to which he refers these islands in the Azoic sea. He has named
them the systems of La Vendée, of Finistère, of Longmynd, and of Morbihan. These names have,
for the present, only a local significance,--being derived, like so many of the geological
names, from the places where the investigations of the phenomena were first undertaken,--but
in course of time will, no doubt, apply to all the contemporaneous upheavals, wherever they
may be traced, just as we now have Silurian, Devonian, Permian, and Jurassic deposits in America
as well as in Europe.

The Silurian and Devonian epochs seem to have been instrumental rather in enlarging the tracts
of land already raised than in adding new ones; yet to these two epochs is traced the upheaval
of a large and important island to the northeast of France. We may call it the Belgian island,
since it covered the ground of modern Belgium; but it also extended considerably beyond these
limits, and included much of the Northern Rhine region. A portion only of this tract, to which
belongs the central mass of the Vosges and the Black Forest, was lifted during the Silurian
epoch,--which also enlarged considerably Wales and Scotland, the Bohemian island, the island
of Bretagne, and Scandinavia. During this epoch the sheet of water between Norway and Sweden
became dry land; a considerable tract was added to their northern extremity on the Arctic shore;
while a broad band of Silurian deposits, lying now between Finland and Russia, enlarged that
region. The Silurian epoch has been referred by Élie de Beaumont to the system of upheaval
called by him the system of Westmoreland and Hundsrück,--again merely in reference to the spots
at which these upheavals were first studied, the centres, as it were, from which the investigations
spread. But in their geological significance they indicate all the oscillations and disturbances
of the soil throughout the region over which the Silurian deposits have been traced in Europe.
The Devonian epoch added greatly to the outlines of the Belgian island. To it belongs the region
of the Ardennes, lying between France and Belgium, the Eifelgebirge, and a new disturbance
of the Vosges, by which that region was also extended. The island of Bretagne was greatly increased
by the Devonian deposits, and Bohemia also gained in dimensions, while the central plateau
of France remained much the same as before. The changes of the Devonian epoch are traced by
Élie de Beaumont to a system of upheavals called the Ballons of the Vosges and of Normandy,--so
called from the rounded, balloon-like domes characteristic of the mountains of that time. To
the Carboniferous epoch belong the mountain-systems of Forey, (to the west of Lyons,) of the
North of England, and of the Netherlands. These three systems of upheaval have also been traced
by Élie de Beaumont; and in the depressions formed between their elevations we find the coal-basins
of Central France, of England, and of Germany. During all these epochs, in Europe as in America,
every such dislocation of the surface was attended by a change in the animal creation.

If we take now a general view of the aspect of Europe at the close of the Carboniferous epoch,
we shall see that the large island of Scandinavia is completed, while the islands of Bohemia
and Belgium have approached each other by their gradual increase till they are divided only
by a comparatively narrow channel. The island of Belgium, that of Bretagne, and that of the
central plateau of France, form together a triangle, of which the plateau is the lowest point,
while Belgium and Bretagne form the other two corners. Between the plateau and Belgium flows
a channel, which we may call the Burgundian channel, since it covers old Burgundy; between
the plateau and Bretagne is another channel, which from its position we may call the Bordeaux
channel. The space inclosed between these three masses of land is filled by open sea. To trace
the gradual closing of these channels and the filling up of the ocean by constantly increasing
accumulations, as well as by upheavals, will be the object of the next article.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUSICIAN.

He did not move the hills and the rocks with his music, because those days are passed away,--the
days when Orpheus had all Nature for his audience, when the audience would not keep its seat.
In those days trees and rocks may have held less firm root in the soil: it was nearer the old
Chaos-times, and they had not lost the habit of the whirling dance. The trees had not found
their "continental" home, and the rocks were not yet wedded to their places: so they could
each enjoy one more bachelor-dance before settling into their staid vegetable and mineral domestic
happiness.

Our musician had no power, then, to move them from their place of ages: he did not stir them
as much as the morning and evening breezes among the leaves, or the streams trickling down
among the great rocks and wearing their way over precipices. But he moved men and women, of
all natures and feelings. He could translate Bach and Beethoven, Mendelssohn and Mozart,--all
the great poet-musicians that are silent now, and must be listened to through an interpreter.
All the great people and all the little people came to hear him. A princess fell in love with
him. She would have married him. She did everything but ask him to marry her. Indeed, some
of his friends declared she did this; but that cannot be believed.

"You ought to be satisfied," said one of his friends to the musician, one day; "all the world
admires you; money drops from the keys of your piano-forte; and a princess is in love with you."

"With me?" answered the musician; "with my music, perhaps. You talk nonsense, when you talk
of her falling in love with me, of her marrying a poor musician. What then? To have one instrument
more in her palace! Let her marry her piano-forte,--or her violin, if she objects to a quadruped!"

"You are as blind as Homer," said his friend. "Can't you see that her love is purely personal?
Would she care to give a title to a pianist, if he were any other than Arnold Wulff? If you
had other eyes in your head, or if there were another man inside even that same face of yours,
the strains might flow out under your fingers like streams from Paradise, in vain, so far as
her heart was concerned. Your voice is quite as persuasive as your music, with her."

"If so, why must she put a title in front of my name, before I am worthy of her?" asked Arnold.
"She offers me some square miles of uninhabitable forest, because, as owner of them, I can
wear a Von before my name. I can put it on as an actor on the stage wears a chapeau of the
Quatorze time. It is one of the properties of the establishment. You may call it a livery of
the palace, if you please. I may make love to her on the stage as 'My Lord.' But my own little
meagre part of Arnold,--thank you, I prefer it, without my princess."

"And yet, if you have the palace, a princess is necessary. With your love of harmony, you yourself
would not be pleased to see a cotton dress hanging across a damask couch, or rude manners interrupt
a stately dinner. The sound of the titles clangs well as you are ushered up through the redoubled
apartments. If the play is in the Quatorze time, let it be played out. A princess deserves
at least a lord for a husband."

"Very well, if the question is of marriage," answered Arnold; "but in love, a woman loves a
man, not a title; and if a woman marries as she loves, she marries the man, not the lordship."

"But this is a true princess," said his friend Carl.

"And a true princess," answered Arnold, "feels the peas under ever so many mattresses. She
would not fall in love with a false lord, or degrade herself by marrying her scullion. But
if she is a true princess, she sees what is lordly in her subject. If she loves him, already
he is above her in station,--she looks up to him as her ideal. Whatever we love is above self.
We pay unconscious homage to the object of our love. Already it becomes our lord or princess."

"I don't see, then," said Carl, "but that you are putting unnecessary peas in your shoes. It
is this princeliness that your princess has discovered in you; and the titles she would give
you are the signs of it, that she wishes you to wear before the world."

"And they never will make me lord or prince, since I am not born such," answered Arnold. "If
I were born such, I would make the title grand and holy, so that men should see I was indeed
prince and lord as well as man. As it is, I feel myself greater than either, and born to rule
higher things. It would cramp me to put on a dignity for which I was not created. Already I
am cramped by the circumstances out of which I was born. I cannot express strains of music
that I hear in my highest dreams, because my powers are weak, and fail me as often the strings
of my instrument fail my fingers. To put on any of the conventionalities of life, any of its
honors, even the loves of life, would be to put on so many constraints the more."

"That is because you have never loved," said Carl.

"That may be," said Arnold,--"because I have never loved anything but music. Still that does
not satisfy me,--it scarcely gives me joy; it gives me only longing, and oftener despair. I
listen to it alone, in secret, until I am driven by a strange desire to express it to a great
world. Then, for a few moments, the praise and flattery of crowds delight and exalt me,--but
only to let me fall back into greater despair, into remorse that I have allowed the glorious
art of music to serve me as a cup of self-exaltation."

"You, Arnold, so unmoved by applause?" said Carl.

"It is only an outside coldness," answered Arnold; "the applause heats me, excites me, till
a moment when I grow to hate it. The flatteries of a princess and her imitating train turn
my head, till an old choral strain, or a clutch that my good angel gives me, a welling-up of
my own genius in my heart, comes to draw me back, to cool me, to taunt me as traitor, to rend
me with the thought that in self I have utterly forgotten myself, my highest self."

"These are the frenzies with which one has to pay for the gift of genius," said Carl. "A cool
temperament balances all that. If one enjoys coolly, one suffers as coolly. Take these fits
of despair as the reverse side of your fate. She offers you by way of balance cups of joy and
pleasure and success, of which we commonplace mortals scarcely taste a drop. When my peasant-maiden
Rosa gives me a smile, I am at the summit of bliss; but my bliss-mountain is not so high that
I fear a fall from it. If it were the princess that gladdened me so, I should expect a tumble
into the ravine now and then, and would not mind the hard scramble up again, to reach the reward
at the top."

"It would not be worth the pains," said Arnold; "a princess's smiles are not worth more than
a peasant-girl's. I am tired of it all. I am going to find another world. I am going to England."

"You are foolish," answered Carl. "The world is no different there; there is as little heart
in England as in Germany,--no more or less. You are just touching success here; do give it
a good grasp."

"I am cloyed with it already," said Arnold.

"It is not that," said Carl. "You are a child crying for the moon. You would have your cake
and eat it too. You want some one who shall love you, you alone,--who shall have no other thought
but yours, no other dream than of you. Yet you are jealous for your music. If that is not loved
as warmly, you begin to suspect your lover. It is the old proverb, 'Love me, love my dog.'
But if your dog is petted too much, if we dream in last night's strains of music, forget you
a moment in the world you have lifted us into,--why, then your back is turned directly; you
upbraid us with following you for the sake of the music,--we have no personal love of you,--you
are the violin or the fiddlestick!"

"You are right, old Carl," said Arnold. "I am all out of tune myself. I have not set my inward
life into harmony with the world outside. It is true, at times I impress a great audience,
make its feelings sway with mine; but, alas! it does not impress me in return. There is a little
foolish joy at what you call success; but it lasts such a few minutes! I want to have the world
move me; I do not care to move the world!"

"And will England move you more than Germany?" asked Carl; "will the hearts of a new place
touch you more than those of home? The closer you draw to a man, the better you can read his
heart, and learn that he has a heart. It is not the number of friends that gives us pleasure,
but the warmth of the few."

"In music I find my real life," Arnold went on, "because in music I forget myself. Is music,
then, an unreal life? In real life must self always be uppermost? It is so with me. In the
world, with people, I am self-conscious. It is only in music that I am lifted above myself.
When I am not living in that, I need activity, restlessness, change. This is why I must go
away. Here I can easily be persuaded to become a conceited fool, a flattered hanger-on of a court."

       *       *       *       *       *

We need scarcely tell of the musician's career in England. We are already familiar with London
fashionable life. We have had life-histories, three volumes at a time, that have taken us into
the very houses, told us of all the domestic quarrels, some already healed, some still pending.
It is easy to imagine of whom the world was composed that crowded the concerts of the celebrated
musician. The Pendennises were there, and the Newcomes, Jane Rochester with her blind husband,
a young Lord St. Orville with one of the Great-Grand-Children of the Abbey, Mr. Thornton and
Margaret Thornton, a number of semi-attached couples, Lady Lufton and her son, the De Joinvilles
visiting the Osbornes, from France, Miss Dudleigh and Sarona, Alton Locke, on a visit home,
Signor and Signora Mancini, sad-eyed Rachel Leslie with her young brother, a stately descendant
of Sir Charles Grandison, the Royal Family, and all the nobility. When everybody went,--every
one fortunate enough to get a ticket and a seat in the crowded hall,--it would be invidious
to mention names. It was the fashion to go; and so everybody went who was in the fashion. Then
of course the unfashionables went, that it might not be supposed they were of that class; and
with these, all those who truly loved music were obliged to contend for a place. Fashion was
on the side of music, till it got the audience fairly into the hall and in their seats; and
then music had to struggle with fashion. It had to fix and melt the wandering eyes, to tug
at the worldly and the stony heart. And here it was that Arnold's music won the victory. The
ravishing bonnet of Madam This or That no longer distracted the attention of its envying admirers,
or of its owner; the numerous flirtations that had been thought quite worth the price of the
ticket, and of the crushed flounces, died away for a few moments; the dissatisfaction of the
many who discovered themselves too late in inconspicuous seats was drowned in the deeper and
sadder unrest that the music awakened. For the music spoke separately to each heart, roused
up the secrets hidden there, fanned dying hopes or silent longings. It made the light-hearted
lighter in heart, the light-minded heavy in soul. Where there was a glimpse of heaven, it opened
the heavens wider; where there was already hell, it made the abysses gape deeper. For those
few moments each soul communed with itself, and met with a shuddering there, or an exaltation,
as the case might be.

After those few moments, outside life resumed its sway. Buzzing talk swept out the memory of
the music. One song from an opera brought thought back to its usual level. Men and women looked
at each other through their opera-glasses, and, bringing distant outside life close to them,
fancied themselves in near communion with it. The intimacy of the opera-glass was warm enough
to suit them,--so very near at one moment, comfortably distant at the next. It was an intimacy
that could have no return, nor demanded it. One could study the smile on the lip of one of
these neighbors, even the tear in her eye, with one's own face unmoved, an answer of sympathy
impossible, not required. Nevertheless, the music had stirred, had excited; and the warmth
it had awakened was often transferred to the man who had kindled it. The true lovers of music
could not express their joy and were silent, while these others surrounded Arnold with their
flatteries and adoration.

He was soon wearied of this.

"I am going to America, to a new world," he said to his friend; "there must be some variety there."

"Perhaps so," said Carl,--"something new, something that is neither man nor woman, since they
cannot satisfy you. Still I fancy you will find nothing higher than men and women."

"A new land must develop men and women in a new way," answered Arnold.

"If you would only look at things in my microscopic way," said Carl, "and examine into one
man or one woman, you would not need all this travelling. But I will go as far as New York
with you."

       *       *       *       *       *

At New York the name of the musician had already awakened the same excitement as in other places;
the concert-room was crowded; there was the same rush for places; the prices paid for the tickets
seemed here even more fabulous. Arnold was more of a lion than ever. His life was filled with
receptions, dinners, and evening parties, or with parlor and evening concerts. His dreamy,
poetic face, his distant, abstracted manner, proved as fascinating as his music.

Carl tired of the whirl, and the adoration, of which he had his share.

"I shall go back to Germany," he said. "I shall go to my Rosa, and leave you your world."

"I am tired of my world. I shall go to the Far West," said Arnold, when Carl left him.

One day he went to a matinée at one of the finest and most fashionable houses in the place.
There were beautiful women elegantly dressed, very exquisite men walking up and down the magnificently
furnished drawing-rooms. The air was subdued, the voices were low, the wit was quiet, the motion
was full of repose, the repose breathed grace. Arnold seated himself at the Steinway, at the
half-expressed request of the hostess, and partly from the suggestions of his own mood. He
began with dreamy music; it was heavy with odors, at first, drugged with sense, then spiritualizing
into strange, delicate fancies. Then came strength with a sonata of Beethoven's; then the strains
died back again into a song singing without words.

"You would like some dance-music now," said Arnold to the beautiful Caroline, who stood by
his side. "Shall I play some music that will make everybody dance?"

"Like the music in the fairy-tale," said Caroline; "oh, I should like that! I often hear such
dance-music, that sets me stirring; it seems as if it ought to move old and young."

"There are no old people here," said Arnold. "I have not seen any."

"It seems to me there are no young," answered Caroline.

"There are neither young nor old," said Arnold; "that is the trouble."

But he began to play a soft, dreamy waltz. It was full of bewitching invitation. No one could
resist it. It passed into a wild, stirring polka, into a maddening galop, back again to a dreamy
waltz. Now it was dizzying, whirling; now it was languishing, full of repose. Now it was the
burst and clangor of a full orchestra; now it was the bewitching appeal of a single voice that
invited to dance. Up and down the long room, across the broad room, the dancers moved. The
room, that had been so full of quiet, was swaying with motion.

Caroline seized hold of the back of a chair to stay herself.

"It whirls me on; how dizzying it is! And you, would you not like to join in the dance? I would
be your partner."

"The piano is my partner," answered Arnold. "Do you not see how it whirls with me?"

"Yes, everything moves," said Caroline. "Are Cupid and Psyche coming to join us? Will my great-grand-aunt
come down to the waltz in her brocade? My sober cousin, and Marie, who gave up dancing long
ago,--they are all carried away. It seems to me like the strange dance of a Walpurgis night,--as
though I saw ghosts, and demons too, whirling over the Brocken, across wild forests. It is
no longer our gilded drawing-room, with its tapestries, its bijouterie, its sound and light
both muffled: we are out in the wild tempest; there are sighing pines, dashing waterfalls.
Do you know that is where your music carries me always? Whether it is grave or gay, it takes
me out into whirling winds, and tosses me in tempests. They call society gay here, and dizzying,--dance
and music, show, excess, following each other; but it is all sleep, Lethe, in comparison with
the mad world into which your music whirls me. Oh, stop a moment, Arnold! will you not stop?
It is too wild and maddening!"

The strains crashed into discord, crashed into harmony, and then there was a wonderful silence.
The dancers were suddenly stilled,--looked at each other with flushed cheek,--would have greeted
each other, as if they had just met in a foreign land; but they recovered themselves in time.
Nothing unconventional was said or done.

"Did I dance?" Marie asked herself,--"or was I only looking on?"

One of the dancers scarcely dared to look round, lest it should prove to be the great-grand-aunt's
brocade that she heard rustle behind her; while another thanked her partner for a chair, with
eyes cast down, lest it might be Cupid that offered it. But the room was the same; there was
an elegant calm over everything. Tea-poys, light chairs, fragile vases have been undisturbed
by crinoline even.

"Are you quite sure this Chinese joss was on this table, when the music began?" asked Marie's
companion of her, whisperingly.

"Oh, hush, you don't think that danced, do you?" said Marie, with a shudder.

"I hardly know. I think the musician was on this side of the room a little while ago, piano
and all."

"Don't talk so," replied Marie. "They are all going now. I am glad of it. You will be at the
opera to-night? I must say I like opera-music better than this wild German stuff that sets
one's brain whirling!"

"Heels, too, I should say," said her companion; and they took their leave with the rest.

The next afternoon Arnold was sitting in his room with the windows open. It was an early spring
day, when the outer air was breathing of summer. He was thinking of how the beautiful, cold
Caroline had spoken to him the day before,--of that wild, appealing tone with which she had
called him Arnold. Before, always, she had given him no more than the greeting of an acquaintance.
Now, the tone in which she had spoken took a significance. As he was questioning it, recalling
it, he suddenly heard his own name called most earnestly and appealingly. There was a softness,
and an agony too, in its piercing tone, as if it came straight from the heart. "Arnold! come,
come back!" He hurried to the window, wondering if he were under the influence of some dream.
He looked down, and found himself a witness to a scene that he could not interrupt, because
he could not help, and a sudden word might create danger. It passed very quickly, though it
would take many words to describe it. A piazza led across the windows of the story below, to
a projecting part of the building, the sloping roof of which it touched. At the other end of
the sloping roof, where it met an alley-way that opened upon a street beyond, there was a little
child leaning over to look at some soldiers that were passing through the street across the
alley. He was supporting himself, by an iron wire that served as a lightning-rod. Already it
was bending beneath his weight; and in his eagerness he was forgetting his slippery footing,
and the dizzy height of thirty feet, over which he was hanging. He was a little three year-old
fellow, too, and probably never knew anything about danger. His mother had always screamed
as loudly when he fell from a footstool as when she had seen him leaning from a three-story window.

The voice came from a girl, who, at the moment Arnold came to the window, was crossing the
iron palisade of the piazza. She was on the slippery, sloping leads as she repeated the cry,
in a tone earnest and thrilling,--"Dear Arnold, come in, only come, and George shall take you
to the soldiers."

The boy only gave another start of pleasure, that seemed to loosen still more his support,
crying out, "The drummer! Cousin Laura, come, see the drummer!"

But Laura kept her way along the edge of the roof, reached the child, seized him, and walked
back across the perilous slope with the struggling boy in her arms. Arnold the musician had
noticed, even in her hurrying, dangerous passage towards the child, the rich sunny folds of
her hair, golden like a German girl's. Now, as she returned, he saw the soft lines of her terror-moved
face, and the deep blue of her wide-opened eyes. Her voice changed as she reached the piazza,
and set the child down in safety.

"Oh, Arnold, darling, how could you, how could you frighten me so?"

The child began to cry, because it was reproved, because its pleasure was stopped, and because
Cousin Laura, pale and white, held to the railing of the piazza for support. But the mamma
came out, Laura was lifted in, the boy was scolded, the windows were shut, and there was the end.

Arnold sat by the window, thinking. The thrilling tones of the voice still rang in his ear,
as though they were calling upon him, "Arnold, come, come back!"

"If any voice would speak to me in that tone!" he thought; "if such a voice would call upon
my name with all that heart in its depths!"

And he compared it with the tone in which Caroline had appealed to him the day before. Sometimes
her voice assumed the same earnestness, and he felt as if she were showing him in the words
all her own heart, betraying love, warmth, ardor. Sometimes, in comparison with that cry, her
tones seemed cold and metallic, a selfish appeal of danger, not a cry of love. He found himself
examining her more nearly than he had ever done before.

"Was she more than outwardly beautiful? Was there any warmth beneath that cold manner? Could
she warm as well as shine?"

He remembered that she had often complained to him of her longing for sympathy; she had spoken
to him of the coldness of the world, of the heartlessness of society. She had envied him his
genius,--the musical talent that made him independent of the world, of the love of men and
women. He could never appreciate what it was to be alone in the world, to find one's higher
feelings misunderstood, to be obliged to pass from one gayety to another, to be dissatisfied
with the superficiality of life, and yet to find no relief;--all this she had said to him.

But why was it so with her? She had a very substantial father and mother, who seemed to devote
themselves to her wishes,--some younger brothers,--he had seen them pushed from the drawing-room
the day of the matinée,--a sister near her age, not yet out. Caroline had apologized for her
sister's crying while listening to his music. "She was unsophisticated still, and had not forgotten
her boarding-school nonsense." Then, if Caroline did not enjoy city-life, there was a house
in the country to which she might have gone early in the spring. She had, too, her friend Marie.
She imparted to him some of Marie's confidences, her sad history; Marie must be enough of a
friend to be trusted in return. In short, Caroline's manner had always been so conventional
and unimpulsive, that these complaints of life had seemed to him a part of her society-tone,
aa easily taken on and off as her bonnet or her paletot. They suited the enthusiasm that was
necessary with music, and would be forgotten in her talk with Mr. Gresham the banker.

But she had called him by his own name: that had moved him. And now that another voice had
given the words a tone he had not before detected in them, he began to question their meaning.
Could Caroline put as much heart into her voice as this golden-haired Laura had shown? Could
Caroline have exposed herself to danger as that girl had done? Perhaps any woman would have
done it. Perhaps the princess would have ventured so, to save a child's life. Would he have
ventured to do it himself? It could not have been a pleasant thing to walk on a pointed roof,
with some half-broken spikes to catch one, in case of missing one's footing, or escaping the
fall of thirty feet below. And that little frightened-looking, timid Laura, if he could only
see her again!

He questioned whether this were not a possible thing. He had formed a slight acquaintance with
Mrs. Ashton, who was occupying the rooms below; he had met her on the stairs, had exchanged
some words with her. It struck him it would be a proper thing to offer her some tickets to
his next concert. At this moment he was interrupted, was summoned away, and he deferred his
intention until the next day.

The next day he presented himself at the door of Mrs. Ashton's parlor. She invited him to come
in, cordially, and he was presented to her niece, who sat in the window with her work. Laura
scarcely looked up as he entered, and went on with her crochet.

Presently Arnold opened his business.

"Would Mrs. Ashton accept some tickets for his concert that evening?"

Mrs. Ashton looked pleased, thought him very kind.

Arnold took out the tickets for herself, for Mr. Ashton. He offered another.

"Would her niece be pleased to go? would Miss"--

Laura looked up from her work and hesitated.

"She was much obliged, she didn't know, but she had promised her cousin to go to the theatre
with him."

Mrs. Ashton, thinking the musician looked displeased, attempted to explain.

"Laura was not very fond of music. She did not like concerts very well. She seldom came to
New York, and the theatre was a new thing to her."

"I do not wonder," said Arnold, withdrawing his ticket. "I sympathize with Mademoiselle in
her love for the theatre; and concert-music is but poor stuff. If one finds a glimpse there
of a higher style, a higher art, it is driven away directly by the recurrence of something
trifling and frivolous."

Mrs. Ashton did not agree with the musician. She could not understand why Laura did not like
concerts. For herself, she liked the variety: the singing relieved the piano, and one thing
helped another.

Arnold looked towards Laura for a contradiction; he wanted to hear her defence of her philosophy,
for he was convinced she had some in not liking music. To him every one had expressed a fondness
for music; and it was a rarity, an originality, to find some one who confessed she did not like it.

But Laura did not seem inclined to reply; she was counting the stitches in her crochet. In
the silence, Arnold took his leave.

He had no sooner reached his own room than he reproached himself for his sudden retreat. Why
had he not stayed, and tried to persuade the young lady to change her mind? An engagement for
the theatre with a cousin might have been easily postponed. And he would like to have made
her listen to some of his music. He would have compelled her to listen. He would have played
something that would have stirred all the audience; but for her, it would have been like taking
her back to her peril of the day before,--she should have lived over again all its self-exaltation,
all its triumph.

Laura meanwhile had laid down her work.

"I was stupid," she said, "not to take that ticket."

"I think you were," said her aunt, "when we know so many people who would give their skins
for a ticket."

"It is not that," said Laura; "but I didn't want to go, till I saw the ticket going out of
my grasp. I have always had such dreary associations with concerts, since those I went to with
Janet, last spring,--long, dreary pieces that I couldn't understand, interrupted by Italian
songs that had more scream in them than music, and Janet flirting with her friends all the time."

"I knew you didn't like music," said her aunt; "that was the only way I could get you out of
the scrape, for it did seem impolite to refuse the ticket. Of course an engagement to the theatre
appeared a mere excuse, as long as Laura Keene plays every night now."

"It was not a mere excuse with me," said Laura; "I did not fancy the exchange. But now I think
I should like to know what his music is. I wonder if it is at all like mine."

"The music you make on the little old piano at home?" asked Mrs. Ashton; "that is sweet enough
in that room, but I fancy it is different from his music."

"Oh, I don't mean that," said Laura; "it is because the piano seems to say so little that I
care so little for it. The music I mean is what I hear, when, in a summer's afternoon, I carry
my book out into the barn to read as I lie on a bed of hay. I don't read, but I listen. The
cooing of the doves, the clatter even of the fowls in the barn-yard, the quiet noises, with
the whisperings of the great elm, and the rustling of the brook in the field beyond,--all this
is the music I like to hear. It puts me into delicious dreams, and stirs me, too, into strange
longing."

"Well, I doubt if our great musician can do all that. Anyhow, he wouldn't bring in the hens
and chickens," laughed Mrs. Ashton.

"But I should like to hear him, if he could show me what real music is," said Laura, dreamily,
as her hands fell on her work.

"Well, I am sorry," said Mrs. Ashton, "and you might take my ticket: you can, if you wish.
Only one concert is like another, and I dare say you would be disappointed, after all. I told
Mrs. Campbell I should certainly go to one of his concerts, and I suppose Mr. Ashton will hardly
care for the expense of tickets, now we have had them presented to us. And as I know that Mrs.
Campbell is going to-night, she will see that I am there, so I should much prefer going tonight.
But then, Laura, if you do care so much about it"--

Oh, no,--Laura did not care; only she was sorry she had been so stupid.

She was very much surprised, when, in the evening, towards the end of the performance at the
theatre, the musician came and joined her party, and talked most agreeably with them. Even
her cousin George did not resent his intrusion, and on the way home imparted to Laura that
he had no doubt the musician's talk was pleasanter than his music.

Laura did not agree with him. She met with the musician frequently now, and his talk only made
her more and more desirous to hear his music. He came frequently to her aunt's room; he joined
her and her aunt at the Academy of Fine Arts many times. Here he talked to her most charmingly
of pictures, as a musician likes to talk about pictures, and as a painter discusses music,--as
though he had the whole art at his fingers' ends. It was the opening of a new life to Laura.
If he could tell her so much of painting and sculpture, what would she not learn, if he would
only speak of music? But he never did, and he never offered to play to them. She was very glad
her aunt never suggested it. The piano in the drawingroom must be quite too poor for him to
touch. But he never offered her another concert-ticket. She did not wonder that he never did,
she had been so ungracious at first. She was quite ashamed that he detected her once in going
to the Horse-Opera, he must think her taste so low. She wanted to tell him it was her cousin
George's plan; but then she did enjoy it.

Arnold found himself closely studying both Caroline and Laura now. "Carl would be pleased at
my microscopic examinations," he thought.

Frequently as he visited Laura, as frequently he saw Caroline. He was constantly invited to
her house,--to meet her at other places. Yet the nearer she came to him, the farther he seemed
from her. Can we more easily read a form that flees from us than one that approaches us? He
talked with her constantly of music. She asked him his interpretation of this or that sonata.
She betrayed to him the impression he had made with this or that fantasie. It was astonishing
how closely she appreciated the vague changes of tones and words of music.

But with Laura he never ventured to speak of music. Whenever he played now, he played as if
for her; and yet he never ventured to ask her to listen.

"It seems to me sometimes," said Caroline to him once, "as though you were playing to some
one person. Your music is growing to have a beseeching tone; there is something personal in it."

"It must always be so," replied Arnold, moodily; "can my music answer its own questions?"

The spring days were opening into summer, the vines were coming into full leaf, the magnolias
were in blossom, the windows to the conservatories at the street-corners were thrown open,
and let out to sight some of the gorgeous display of bright azaleas and gay geraniums.

Arnold sat with Caroline at an Opera Matinée. A seat had been left for him near her. In an
interval, she began to speak to him again of her weariness of life; the next week was going
on precisely as the last had gone, in the same round of engagements.

"You will envy me my life," said Arnold. "I am going out West. I am going to build my own house."

"You are joking; you would not think of it seriously," said Caroline.

"I planned it long ago," answered Arnold; "it was to be the next act after New York,--the final
act, perhaps. Scene I: The Log Cabin."

"How can you think of it?" exclaimed Caroline. "Give up everything? your reputation, fortune,
everything?"

"New York, in short," added Arnold.

"Very well, then,--New York, in short; that is the world," said Caroline. "And your music,
who is to listen to it?"

"My music?" asked Arnold; "that is of a subjective quality. A composer, even, need not hear
his own music."

"I don't understand you," said Caroline; "and I dare say you are insane."

"You do not understand me?" asked Arnold, "yet you could read to me all that fantasie I played
to you last night. It was my own composition, and I had not comprehended it in the least."

"Now you are, satirical," said Caroline.

"Because you are inconsistent," pursued Arnold; "you wonder I do not stay here, because my
fortune can buy me a handsome house, horses, style and all its elegancies; yet you yourself
have found no happiness in them."

"But I never should find happiness out of them," answered Caroline. "It is a pretty amusement
for us who have the gold to buy our pleasures with, to abuse it and speak ill of it. But those
who have not it,--you do not hear them depreciate it so. I believe they would sell out their
home-evenings, those simple enjoyments books speak of and describe so well,--they would sell
them as gladly as the author sells his descriptions of them, for our equipages, our grand houses,
our toilet."

Arnold looked at his neighbor. Her hands, in their exquisitely fitting lilac gloves, lay carelessly
across each other above the folds of the dress with which they harmonized perfectly. A little
sweetbrier rose fell out from the white lace about her face, against the soft brown of her
hair. Arnold pictured Laura gathering just such a rose from the porch she had described by
the door of her country-home.

"Would you not have enjoyed gathering yourself that delicate rose that looks coquettish out
of its simplicity?" he asked.

"Thank you, no," Caroline interrupted. "I selected it from Madame's Paris bonnets, because
it suited my complexion. If I had picked the rose in the sun, don't you see my complexion would
no longer have suited it?"

"I see you would enjoy life merely as a looker-on," said Arnold. "I would prefer to be an actor
in it. When I have built my own house, and have digged my own potatoes, I shall know the meaning
of house and potatoes. My wife, meanwhile, will be picking the roses for her hair."

"She will be learning the meaning of potatoes in cooking them," replied Caroline. "I would,
indeed, rather be above life than in it. I have just enjoyed hearing Lucia sing her last song,
and seeing Edgardo kill himself. I should not care to commit either folly myself. I pity people
that have no money; I think they would as gladly hurry out of their restraints as Brignoli
hurries into his everyday suit, after killing himself nightly as love-sick tenor."

"I would rather kill myself than think so," said Arnold.

This talk, which had been interrupted by the course of the opera, was finished as they left
their seats. At the door, Mr. Gresham offered to help Caroline to her carriage. Arnold walked away.

"I would kill myself, if I could fancy that Laura thought so," he said, as he hurried home.

There was a cart at the door of the house, men carrying furniture on the stairs. The doors
of Mrs. Ashton's rooms were wide-open; packing-paper and straw were scattered about.

"What is the matter?" he asked of his landlady.

"A gentleman has taken Mrs. Ashton's rooms. This is his grand piano."

"Mrs. Ashton! where is she?" asked Arnold.

"She left this morning. I should have been glad of further notice, but fortunately"--

"Where have they gone?" interrupted Arnold.

"Home. I don't know where. I can't keep the run."

"It is in New England. Is there a directory of New England?"

"A directory of New England! The names of its towns would make a large book!"

Arnold went to his room. If he could only recall the name of the town near which Laura lived!
But American names had no significance. In Germany each town had a history. The small places
were famous because they were near larger ones. And even in the smallest some drop of blood
had been shed that had given it a name, or had made its name noted.

She had gone; and why had she gone without telling him?

If he could only have heard Mrs. Ashton's talk the evening before with her husband, he need
not have asked the question.

"Do you know, dear, I think we had better leave New York directly,--tomorrow?"

Mr. Ashton looked inquiries.

"I don't like this intimacy with a foreigner. He really has been very devoted to Laura."

"And, pray, what is the harm?" asked Mr. Ashton.

"How can you ask? A foreigner, and we know nothing about him," answered Mrs. Ashton.

"But that he is the richest man in New York, quiet, inexpensive in his ways."

"If we were sure of all that! But I don't think her father would like it. I had a dream last
night of Red Riding-Hood and the Wolf, and I haven't thought all day of anybody but Laura.
We can get off early to-morrow. I have sent Laura to pack her things now."

"I'm afraid it is too late for her, poor girl!" said Mr. Ashton.

"She would be miserable, and her father would blame me, and I don't like it," said Mrs. Ashton.
"And I am tired of New York."

"There's your dentist," suggested Mr. Ashton.

"I can come again," answered his wife.

Arnold's determination was made. He would visit every town in New England; he would cross every
square mile of her territory. Of course he would find Laura. Since he should not stop till
he found her, of course he would find her before he stopped.

He began his quest. He gave concerts in all the larger places; he looked anxiously through
the large audiences that attended them,--hopelessly,--for how could he expect to find Laura
among them? Often he left the railroads, to walk through the villages. It was the summer time,
and he enjoyed the zest of climbing hills and wandering through quiet valleys.

He met with pleasant greetings in farm-houses, so far from the world that a stranger was greeted
as a friend, where hospitality had not been so long worn upon but that it could offer a fresh
cordiality to an unknown face. He wished he were a painter, that he might paint the pretty
domestic scenes he saw: the cattle coming home at evening,--the children crowding round the
school-mistress, as they walked away with her from the school-door,--the groups of girls sitting
at sunset on the door-steps under the elms,--the broad meadows,--the rushing mountain-streams.
But again, after the fresh delight of one of these country-walks, he would reproach himself
that he had left the more beaten ways and the crowded cars, where he might have met Laura.

In passing in one of these from one of the larger towns to another, he met Caroline, on her
bridal tour as Mrs. Gresham.

"You are not gone to Kansas yet?" she asked. "Then you will be able to come and visit us in
Newport this summer. I assure you, you will find cottage-life there far more romantic than
log-cabin life."

Of course he found success at last. It was just as summer was beginning to wane, but when in
September she was putting on some of her last glories and her most fervid heats. He had reached
the summit of a hill, then slowly walked down its slope, as he admired the landscape that revealed
itself to him. He saw, far away among the hills in the horizon, the town towards which he was
bound. The sunset was gathering brilliant colors over the sky; hills and meadows were bathed
in a soft light. He stopped in front of a house that was separated from the road by a soft
green of clover. By the gate there was a seat, on which he sat down to rest. It was all that
was left of a great elm that some Vandal of the last generation had cut away. Nature had meanwhile
been doing her best to make amends for the great damage. Soft mosses nestled over the broad,
mutilated stump, the rains of years had washed out the freshness of its scar, vines wound themselves
around, dandelions stretched their broad yellow shields above, and falling leaves rested there
to form a carpet over it.

As Arnold, tired with his day's walk, was resting himself in the repose of the hour, the old
master of the house came to talk with him. They spoke of the distance to the town, of the hilly
road that led to it, of the meadows in the valley, and their rich crops. At last the old man
asked Arnold into his house, and offered him the old-fashioned hospitality of a mug of cider,
apologizing as he did so, telling how the times had changed, and what had become of all the
cider-mills in the neighborhood. He showed the large stem of the sweetbrier under which they
passed as they went into the house, such as Arnold had seen hanging over many a New-England
porch, large enough for many initials to be carved upon it. They sat down in the little front-room,
and talked on as the mother brought the promised mug of eider.

"Are you fond of music here?" asked Arnold, as he pointed to the old many-legged piano that
stood at one side of the room.

"My girls play a little," answered the old man; "they have gone up to town this afternoon to
get some tickets to that famous man's concert. They play a little, but they complain that the
old piano is out of tune."

"That I could help," said Arnold, as he took his tuning-key out of his pocket.

"Oh, you are one of those tuners," said the old man, relieved; "my girls have been looking
out for one."

Arnold seated himself at the piano. The old people went in and out of the room, but presently
came back when he began to play. They sat in silent listening. "When Arnold came to a pause,
the old man said,--

"That takes me back to the old meeting-house. Do you remember, wife, when I led in Dedham?"

"I," said the mother, "was thinking of that Ordination-ball, and of 'Money Musk' and 'Hull's
Victory.'"

"That is strange enough," said the old man, "that it should sound like psalm-tunes and country-dances."

"It takes us back to our youth; that is it," she answered.

And Arnold went on. Soft home-strains came from the piano, and the two old people sank into
their chairs in happy musing. The twilight was growing dimmer, the strains grew more soft and
subdued, dying through gentle shades into silence. There had been a little rustling sound in
the doorway. Arnold turned, when he had done, and saw a white figure standing there, in listening
attitude, the head half bent, the hands clasped over a straw hat whose ribbons touched the
ground. Behind her was the trellis of the porch, with its sweet-brier hanging over it. It was
Laura, in the very frame in which his imagination had pictured her.

"Have the girls got home?" asked the old man, rousing himself, and going towards the door.--"Come
in, girls. I half think we have got your great musician here. At any rate, he can work some
magic, and has pulled out of the old piano all the music ever your mother and I have listened
to all our life long.--My girls could not have hired me," he continued to Arnold, "to go to
one of your new-fangled concerts; but whether it is because the little piano is so old, or
because you know all that old music, you have brought it all back as though the world were
beginning again.--We must not let him go from here to-night," he said to his wife and children.
And when he found that Laura had met the musician in New York, his urgencies upon Arnold to
stay were peremptory and unanswerable.

As Laura's younger sister, Clara, closed her eyes that night, she said,--

"Mamma and papa think his music sounded of home and old times. How did it sound to you, Laura?"

Laura put her hands over her closed eyes in the dark, and said, dreamily,--"It sounded to me
like love-songs, sung by such a tender voice, out in the woods, somewhere, where there were
pine-trees and a brook."

"It seemed to me like butterflies," said Clara. She did not explain what she meant.

The next morning, as it had been arranged in sisterly council, Laura was to entertain the stranger
while Clara made the preparations for breakfast. Laura found him in the porch, already rejoicing
in the morning view. But, after the first greeting, she found talking with him difficult. They
fell into a silence; and to escape from it Laura finally ran into the kitchen, blue muslin
and all. She pushed Clara away from the fireplace.

"You must let me help," she said, and moved pots, pans, and kettles.

"Another stick of wood would make this water boil," she went on.

"Where shall I find it?" said a voice behind her; and Arnold directly answered his own question
with his ready help.

There followed great bustling, laughter, help, and interruption to work. When Mrs. Ashton came
down, she found the breakfast-table in its wonted place in the broad kitchen, instead of being
laid in the back-parlor, as was the custom when there were guests in the house. It was a very
happy breakfast; the door opened wide upon the green behind the house, and the September morning
air brought in an appetite for the generously laden table.

After breakfast, Arnold asked the way to the knoll behind the house, covered with pines. Laura
went to show him, though it was but a little walk. In the woods, by the pine-trees, near the
sound of the brook, Arnold asked Laura, "What had his music said to her?" Whether she answered
him in the words she had given her sister the night before I will not say; but late to dinner,
out from the woods, two happy lovers walked home in the bright September noon.

       *       *       *       *       *

The log-cabin was built. If in its walls there were any broad chinks through which a wind might
make its way, there were other draughts to send it back again,--strains of music, that helped
to kindle the household hearth,--such strains as made sacred the seed that was laid in the
earth, that refined coarse labor, that softened the tone of the new colony rising up around,
so that life, even the rudest, was made noble, and the work was not merely for the body, but
for the spirit, and a new land was planted under these strains of the musician.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH NAVAL POWER AND ENGLISH COLONIES.

What are the considerations which properly enter into any just estimate of a people's naval power?

In the first place, this certainly is a vital question: Are the people themselves in any true
sense naval in their tastes, habits, and training? Do they love the sea? Is it a home to them?
Have they that fertility of resources and expedients which the emergencies of sea-life make
so essential, and which can come only from a long and fearless familiarity with old Ocean in
all his aspects of beauty and all his aspects of terror? Or are they essentially landsmen,--landsmen
just as much on the deck of a frigate as when marshalled on a battle-field? This is a test
question. For if a nation has not sailors, men who smack of the salt sea, then vain are proud
fleets and strong armaments.

I am satisfied that the ordinary explanation of that naval superiority which England has generally
maintained over France is the true explanation. Certainly never were there stouter ships than
those which France sent forth to fight her battles at the Nile and Trafalgar. Never braver
men trod the deck than there laid down their lives rather than abase their country's flag.
Yet they were beaten. The very nation which, on land, fighting against banded Europe, kept
the balance for more than a generation at equipoise, on the water was beaten by the ships of
one little isle of the sea. In the statement itself you have the explanation. The ships were
from an isle of the sea. The men who manned them were born within sight of the ocean. In their
childhood they sported with its waves. At twelve they were cabin-boys. At twenty, thorough
seamen. Against the skill born of such an experience, of what avail was mere courage, however
fiery?

A similar train of remarks may with truth be made about our Northern and Southern States. No
doubt, the Rebel Government may send to England and purchase swift steamers like the Alabama,
and man them with the reckless outcasts of every nationality, and send them forth to prey like
pirates upon defenceless commerce. No doubt, in their hate, the Rebels may build sea-monsters
like the Merrimack, or the Arkansas, or those cotton-mailed steamers at Galveston, and make
all stand aghast at some temporary disaster. These things are unpleasant, but they are unavoidable.
Desperation has its own peculiar resources. But these things do not alter the law. The North
is thoroughly maritime, and in the end must possess a solid and permanent supremacy on the
sea. The men of Cape Cod, the fishermen of Cape Ann, and the hardy sailors who swarm from the
hundred islands and bays of Maine, are not to be driven from their own element by the proud
planters of the South. Naval habits and naval strength go hand in hand. And in estimating the
resources of any power, the first question is, Has she sailors,--not men of the land, but men
of the sea?

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a second question, equally important. What is a nation's capacity for naval production?
What ship-yards has it? What docks? What machine-shops? What stores of timber, iron, and hemp?
And what skilled workmen to make these resources available? A nation is not strong simply because
it has a hundred ships complete and armed floating on its waters. "Iron and steel will bend
and break," runs the old nursery-tale. And practice shows that iron and steel wrought into
ships have no better fortune, and that the stoutest barks will strand and founder, or else
decay, and, amid the sharp exigencies of war, with wonderful rapidity. Not what a nation has,
then, but how soon it can fill up these gaps of war, how great is its capacity to produce and
reproduce, tells the story of its naval power.

When Louis Napoleon completed that triumph of skill and labor, the port of Cherbourg, England
trembled more than if he had launched fifty frigates. And well she might. For what is Cherbourg?
Nothing less than an immense permanent addition to the French power of naval production. Here,
protected from the sea by a breakwater miles in extent, and which might have been the work
of the Titans, and girdled by almost impregnable fortifications, is more than a safe harbor
for all the fleets of the world. For here are docks for the repairs I dare not say of how many
vessels, and ship-houses for the construction of one knows not how many more, and work-shops
and arsenals and stores of timber and iron well-nigh inexhaustible. This is to have more than
a hundred ships. This is to create productive capacity out of which may come many hundred ships,
when they are wanted. The faith men have in the maritime greatness of England rests not simply
on the fact that she has afloat a few hundred frail ships, but rather on this more pregnant
fact, that England, from Pentland Frith to Land's End, is one gigantic work-shop,--and that,
whether she turn her attention to the clothing of the world or the building of navies, there
is no outmeasuring her mechanical activity. The world has called us a weak naval power. But
the world has been mistaken. We are strong almost as the strongest, if not in fleets, then
in the capacity to produce fleets. Three hundred armed vessels, extemporized in eighteen months,
and maintaining what, considering the extent of coast to be watched, must be called a most
efficient blockade, will stand as an impressive evidence that capacity to produce is one of
the best of nautical gifts.

       *       *       *       *       *

But passing from these questions, which relate to what may be called a nation's innate character
and capacity, we come to a third consideration, of perhaps even more immediate interest. One
of the elements which help to make a nation's power is certainly its available strength. An
important question, then, is, not only, How many ships can a nation produce? but, How many
has it complete and ready for use? In an emergency, what force could it send at a moment's
notice to the point of danger? If we apply this consideration to European powers, we shall
appreciate better how young we are, and how little of our latent strength has been organized
into actual efficiency. In 1857 England had 300 steam ships-of-war, carrying some 7,000 guns,
nearly as many more sailing ships, carrying 9,000 guns, an equal number of gun-boats and smaller
craft, besides a respectable navy connected with her East Indian colonies: a grand sum-total
of more than 900 vessels and not less than 20,000 guns. Here, then, is a fleet, built and ready
for service, which is many times stronger than that which we have been able to gather after
eighteen months of constant and strenuous effort. And behind this array there is a community
essentially mercantile, unsurpassed in mechanic skill and productiveness, and full of sailors
of the best stamp. What tremendous elements of naval power are these! One does not wonder that
the remark often made is so nearly true,--that, if there is any trouble in the farthest port
on the globe, in a few hours you will see a British bull-dog quietly steaming up the harbor,
to ask what it is all about, and whether England can make anything out of the transaction.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is another consideration which perhaps many would put foremost. Has the nation kept pace
with the progress of science and mechanic arts? Once her superior seamanship almost alone enabled
England to keep the sea against all comers. But it is not quite so now. Naval warfare has undergone
a complete revolution. The increasing weight of artillery, and the precision with which it
can be used, make it imperative that the means of defence should approximate at least in effectiveness
to the means of offence. The question now is not, How many ships has England? but, How many
mail-clad ships? how many that would be likely to resist a hundred-pound ball hurled from an
Armstrong or Parrott gun? And if it should turn out that in this race France had outrun England,
and had twenty or thirty of these gladiators of the sea, most would begin to doubt whether
the old dynasty could maintain its power. The interest and curiosity felt on this subject have
almost created a new order of periodical literature. You open your "Atlantic," and the chances
are ten to one that you skip over the stories and the dainty bits of poetry and criticism to
see what Mr. Derby has to say about iron-clads. You receive your "Harper" and you feel aggrieved,
if you do not find a picture of the Passaic, or of Timby's revolving turret, or of something
similar which will give you a little more light concerning these monsters which are threatening
to turn the world upside down. Now all this intense curiosity shows how general and instinctive
is the conviction of the importance of this new element in naval force.

       *       *       *       *       *

The considerations to which we have alluded have already received a large share of the public
attention. They have been examined and discussed from almost every possible point of view.
Probably every one has some ideas, more or less correct, concerning them. But there is a consideration
which is equally important, which has received very little attention in this country, which
indeed seems to have been entirely overlooked. It is this: The degree to which naval efficiency
is dependent upon a wise colonial system.

If the only work of a fleet were to defend one's own harbors, then colonies, whatever might
be their commercial importance, as an arm of naval strength, would be of but little value.
If all the use England had for her navy were to defend London and Liverpool, she would do well
to abandon many of her distant strongholds, which have been won at such cost, and which are
kept with such care. If all our ships had to do were to keep the enemy out of Boston harbor
and New York bay, it would not matter much, if every friendly port fifty miles from our own
borders were closed against us. But the protection of our own ports is not by any means the
chief work of fleets. The protection of commerce is as vital a duty. Commerce is the life-blood
of a nation. Destroy that, and you destroy what makes and mans your fleets. Destroy that, and
you destroy what supports the people and the government which is over the people. But if commerce
is to be protected, war-ships must not hug timidly the shore. They must put boldly out to sea,
and be wherever commerce is. They must range the stormy Atlantic. They must ply to and fro
over that primitive home of commerce, the Mediterranean. Doubling the Cape, they must visit
every part of the affluent East and of the broad Pacific. With restless energy they must plough
every sea and explore every water where the hope of honest gain may entice the busy merchantman.

See what new and trying conditions are imposed upon naval power. A ship, however stanch, has
her points of positive weakness. She can carry only a limited supply either of stores or of
ammunition. She is liable, like everything else of human construction, to accidents of too
serious a nature to be repaired on ship-board. If, now, from any reason, from disasters of
storm or sea, or from deficient provisions, she is disabled, and no friendly port be near,--and
in time of war no ports but our own are sure to be friendly,--then her efficiency is gone.
And this difficulty increases almost in the ratio that modern science adds to her might. The
old galley, which three thousand years ago, propelled by a hundred strong oarsmen, swept the
waters of the Great Sea, was a poor thing indeed compared with a modern war-ship, in whose
bosom beats a power as resistless as the elements. But its efficiency, such as it was, was
not likely to be impaired. It had no furnace to feed, no machinery to watch, only the rude
wants of rude men to supply, and rough oars to replace. A sailing ship, dependent upon the
uncertain breeze, liable to be driven from her course by storms or to be detained by calms,
gives no such impression of power as a steamship, mistress of her own movements, scorning the
control of the elements, and keeping straight on to her destination in storm and calm alike.
But in some respects the weak is strong. The ship is equal to most of the chances of a sea-experience.
If the spar break, it can be replaced. If the storm rend the sails to ribbons, there are skilful
hands which can find or make new ones. But the steamer has inexorable limitations. Break her
machinery, and, if there be no friendly dock open to receive her, she is reduced at once to
a sailing ship, and generally a poor one, too. Nor need you suppose accidents to cause this
loss of efficiency. The mode of propulsion implies brevity of power. The galley depended upon
the stalwart arms of its crew, and they were as likely to be strong to-morrow as to-day, and
next month as to-morrow. The ship puts her trust in her white sails and in the free winds of
heaven, which, however fickle they may be, never absolutely fail. But the steamer must carry
in her own hold that upon which she feeds. You can reckon in weeks, yes, in days, the time
when, unless her stock be renewed, her peculiar power will be lost.

What a tremendous limitation this is! A passenger-boat, whose engines move with the utmost
possible economy, having no cargo but the food of her inmates, will carry only coal enough
for thirty-three or -four days' consumption. This is the maximum. The majority cannot carry
twenty-five days' supply. And when we add the armament and ammunition, and all that goes to
make up a well-furnished ship, you cannot depend upon carrying twenty days' supply. Put now,
in time of war with a great maritime power, your ship where she would be most wanted, in the
East Indies, and close against her the ports of the civilized world, and the sooner she takes
out her propeller, and sends up her masts higher, and spreads her wings wider, the better for
her. That is, under such circumstances, modern improvements would be worse than useless; a
sailing ship would be the best possible ship. Or come nearer home. Here is the Alabama, swift
as the wind, the dread of every loyal merchantman. How long would she remain a thing of terror,
if she were shut out from all ports but her own, or if our ships were permitted to frequent
British and French ports for her destruction, as she is permitted to frequent them for our
destruction? Or consider another case equally pertinent. We are told, and no doubt truly, that
the loss of Norfolk, at the commencement of the war, was an incalculable injury to us. That
is to say, the removal of our place of naval supply and repair only the few hundred miles which
divide the Chesapeake from the Hudson was an untold loss. Suppose it were removed as many thousand
miles, what then? One single fact, showing what, under the best of circumstances, is the difficulty
and expense of modern warfare, is worth a thousand theories. In 1857, then, it took two hundred
thousand tons of coal to supply that part of the English fleet which was in the East,--two
hundred thousand tons to be brought from somewhere in sailing ships. If ever a contest shall
arise among great commercial powers, it will be seen that modern science has made new conditions,
and that the first inexorable demand of modern warfare is coal depots, and docks and machine-shops,
established in ports easy of access, and protected by natural and artificial strength, and
scattered at easy distances all over the commercial world. In short, men will appreciate better
than they do now, that the right arm of naval warfare is not mail-clad steamers, but well-chosen
colonies.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sagacity of England was never more clearly shown than in the foresight with which she has
provided against such an emergency. Let war come when it may, it will not find England in this
respect unprepared. So thickly are her colonies scattered over the face of the earth, that
her war-ships can go to every commercial centre on the globe without spreading so much as a
foot of canvas to the breeze.

There is the Mediterranean Sea. A great centre of commerce. It was a great centre as long ago
as when the Phoenician traversed it, and, passing through the Straits of Hercules, sped on
his way to distant and then savage Britain. It was a great centre when Rome and Carthage wrestled
in a death-grapple for its possession. But England is as much at home in the Mediterranean
as if it were one of her own lakes. At Gibraltar, at its entrance, she has a magnificent bay,
more than five miles in diameter, deep, safe from storms, protected from man's assault by its
more than adamantine rock. In the centre, at Malta, she has a harbor, land-locked, curiously
indented, sleeping safely beneath the frowning guns of Valetta. But from Southampton to Gibraltar
is for a steamship an easy six days' sail; from Gibraltar to Malta not more than five days;
and from Malta to the extreme eastern coast of the sea and back again hardly ten days' sail.

Take the grand highway of nations to India. England has her places of refreshment scattered
all along it with almost as much regularity as depots on a railroad. From England to Gibraltar
is six days' sail; thence to Sierra Leone twelve days; to Ascension six days; to St. Helena
three days; to Cape Colony eight days; to Mauritius not more; to Ceylon about the same; and
thence to Calcutta three or four days. Going farther east, a few days' sail will bring you
to Singapore, and a few more to Hong Kong, and then you are at the gates of Canton. Mark now
that in this immense girdle of some twelve or fifteen thousand miles there is no distance which
a well-appointed steamer may not easily accomplish with such store of coal as she can carry.
She may not, indeed, stop at all these ports. It may be more convenient and economical to use
sails a part of the distance, rather than steam. But, if an exigency required it, she could
stop and find everywhere a safe harbor.

What is true of the East Indies is true of the West Indies, England has as much power as we
have to control the waters of the Western Atlantic and of the Gulf of Mexico. If we have Boston
and New York and Pensacola and New Orleans and Key West, she has Halifax and the Bermudas and
Balize and Jamaica and Nassau and a score more of island-harbors stretching in an unbroken
line from the Florida Reefs to the mouth of the Orinoco. And if our civil war were ended to-day,
and we were in peaceable possession of all our ports, she could keep a strong fleet in the
Gulf and along our coast quite as easily as we could.

       *       *       *       *       *

But it is not simply the number of the British colonies, or the evenness with which they are
distributed, that challenges our highest admiration. The positions which these colonies occupy,
and their natural military strength, are quite as important facts. There is not a sea or a
gulf in the world, which has any real commercial importance, that England has not a stronghold
in the throat of it. And wherever the continents trending southward come to points around which
the commerce of nations, must sweep, there, upon every one of them, is a British settlement,
and the cross of St. George salutes you as you are wafted by. There is hardly a little desolate,
rocky island or peninsula, formed apparently by Nature for a fortress, and formed for nothing
else, but the British lion has it secure beneath his paw.

This is literal fact. Take, for example, the great overland route from Europe to Asia. Despite
its name, its real highway is on the waters of the Mediterranean and Red Seas. It has three
gates,--three alone. They are the narrow strait of Gibraltar, fifteen miles wide, that place
where the Mediterranean narrows between Sicily and Africa to less than a hundred miles wide,
and the strait of Bab-el-mandeb, seventeen miles wide. England holds the keys to every one
of these gates. Count them,--Gibraltar, Malta, and at the mouth of the Red Sea, not one, but
many keys. There, midway in the narrow strait, is the black, bare rock of Perim, sterile, precipitous,
a perfect counterpart of Gibraltar; and on either side, between it and the main-land, are the
ship-channels which connect the Red Sea with the great Indian Ocean. This England seized in
1857. A little farther out is the peninsula of Aden, another Gibraltar, as rocky, as sterile,
as precipitous, connected with the mainland by a narrow strait, and having at its base a populous
little town, a harbor safe in all winds, and a central coal-depot. This England bought, after
her fashion of buying, in 1839. And to complete her security, we are now told that she has
purchased of some petty Sultan the neighboring islands of Socotra and Kouri, giving, as it
were, a retaining-fee, that, though she does not need them herself, no rival power shall ever
possess them.

As we sail a little farther on, we come to the Chinese Sea. What a beaten track of commerce
is this! What wealth of comfort and luxury is wafted over it by every breeze! The teas of China!
The silks of farther India! The spices of the East! What ships of every clime and nation swarm
on its waters! The stately barks of England, France, and Holland! Our own swift ships! And
mingled with them, in picturesque confusion, the clumsy junk of the Chinaman, the Malay prahu
and the slender, darting bangkong of the Sea Dyak! Has England neglected to secure on a permanent
basis her mercantile interests in the Chinese Sea? At the lower end of that sea, where it narrows
and bends into Malacca Strait, she holds Singapore, a little island, mostly covered with jungles
and infested by tigers, which to this day destroy annually from two to three hundred lives,--a
spot of no use to her whatever, except as a commercial depot, but of inestimable value for
that, and which, under her fostering care, is growing up to take its place among the great
emporiums of the world. Half-way up this sea is the island of Labuan, whose chief worth is
this, that beneath its surface and that of the neighboring mainland are hidden inexhaustible
treasures of coal, which are likely soon to be developed, and to yield wealth and power to
the hand that controls them. At the upper end of the sea is Hong Kong, a hot, unhealthy, and
disagreeable island, but which gives her what she wants, a depot and a base from which to threaten
and control the neighboring waters. Clearly the Chinese Sea, the artery of Oriental commerce,
belongs far more to England than to the races which border it.

Even in the broad and as yet comparatively untracked Pacific she is making silent advances
toward dominion. The continent of Australia, which she has monopolized, forms its southwestern
boundary. And pushed out from this, six hundred miles eastward, like a strong outpost, is New
Zealand; itself larger than Great Britain; its shores so scooped and torn by the waves that
it must be a very paradise of commodious bays and safe havens for the mariner; and lifted up,
as if to relieve it from island tameness, are great mountains and dumb volcanoes, worthy of
a continent, and which hide in their bosoms deep, broad lakes. Yet the soil of the lowlands
is of extraordinary fertility, and the climate, though humid, deals kindly with the Anglo-Saxon
constitution. Nor is this all; for, advanced from it north and south, like picket-stations,
are Norfolk isle and the Auckland group, which, if they have no other attractions, certainly
have this great one, good harbors. And it requires no prophet's eye to see, that, when England
needs posts farther eastward, she will find them among the innumerable green coral islets which
stud the Pacific.

Turn now your steps homeward, and pause a moment at the Bermudas, "the still vexed Bermoothes."
Beautiful isles, with their fresh verdure, green gems in the ocean, with airs soft and balmy
as Eden's were! They have their homely uses too. They furnish arrowroot for the sick, and ample
supplies of vegetables earlier than sterner climates will grant. Is this all that can be said?
Reflect a little more deeply. Here is a military and naval depot, and here a splendid harbor,
land-locked, amply fortified, difficult of access to strangers,--and all this as near to the
whole Southern coast as Boston and New York are, all this within three or four days' sail of
any one of the Atlantic ports North or South. England keeps this, no doubt, as a sort of halfway
house on the road to her West Indian possessions; but should we go to war with her, she would
use it none the less as a base of offensive operations, where she might gather and hurl upon
any unprotected port all her gigantic naval power.

We have asserted that England holds all the Southern points in which the continents of the
world terminate. Examine this statement, and see how much it means. Take your map of the world,
and you will find that the land-surface of the globe culminates at the south in five points,
no more,--America at Cape Horn,[5] Africa at the Cape of Good Hope, Asia in Ceylon and the
Malayan peninsula, and Australia in the island of Tasmania. Is it not surprising that these
wedges which cut into the steady flowing stream of commerce, these choice points of mercantile
and naval advantage, are all in the hands of one single power? Can it be of chance? Or rather,
is it not the result of a well-ordered purpose, which, waiting its time, seizing every favorable
opportunity, has finally achieved success?

    [Footnote 5: It is not absolutely true that England holds Cape
    Horn; for the region is unfit for the residence of civilized man.
    And were it not so, the perpetual storms leave no secure
    anchorage. But Great Britain does hold the nearest habitable
    land, the Falkland Islands,--and notwithstanding the rudeness of
    the climate, Stanley, the principal settlement, does a
    considerable business in refitting and repairing ships bound round
    the Cape.]

The topic is not exhausted, but the facts already adduced prove clearly enough that somewhere
in the English government there has been sagacity to plant colonies, not only at convenient
distances, but also in such commanding positions that they do their part to confirm and perpetuate
her maritime supremacy. Can any one fail to see how immeasurably this system increases naval
force? Of course such strongholds, wherever placed, would be of no use to a power which had
not ships. They could not be held by such a power. But, given a fleet as powerful as ever rode
the waves, given seamen gallant and skilful as ever furled a sail or guided the helm, and these
depots and havens, scattered, but not blindly, over the earth, quadruple the efficiency of
the power which they could not create.

       *       *       *       *       *

The number of the English colonies, their happy distribution, and, above all, their commanding
position, furnish subjects of exceeding interest. But the patience with which England has waited,
the skill with which she has seized the proper moment for success, and especially the fixed
determination with which she has held her prizes, are topics of equal or greater interest.

The history of the Rock of Gibraltar, one of the earliest of these prizes, supplies a good
illustration. This had many owners before it came under British rule. But none of them seemed
to know its true value. All held it with a loose grasp. Its surprise and capture by the sailors
from Admiral Rooke's fleet, creditable as it was to its captors, who swarmed up the steep cliffs
as they would have swarmed up the shrouds and yards of their own frigates, leaping from rock
to rock with fearless activity, was equally discreditable to its defenders, who either did
not appreciate the worth of their charge or else had not the courage to hold it as such a trust
should have been held. But when England closed her strong hand upon it, nothing could open
it again, neither motives of profit nor motives of fear. In 1729 Spain offered no less than
ten million dollars for its return. A great sum in those times, and to offer to a people who
had been impoverished by long wars! But the descendants of those sea-kings, Drake, Hawkins,
and Frobisher, who had carried England's flag and England's renown into every sea, would not
part with the brightest jewel in her crown, and for a price. Three times, too, the besieger
has appeared before Gibraltar, and vainly. From 1779 to 1782 France and Spain exhausted all
their resources in a three-years' siege, which is one of the most remarkable episodes in military
history. By sea and by land, by blockade, by bombardment, by assault, was it pressed. But the
tenacity of England was more than a match for the fire and pride of France and Spain, and it
ended in signal and disastrous failure.

Glance for a moment at the history of the seizure of Malta. For generations the value of this
citadel had been known. All the strong nations of Europe had looked with covetous eyes upon
it. But it was a difficult thing to find any pretext for its capture. It was held by the Knights
of St. John, the decrepit remnant of an order whose heroism had many times been the shield
of Christendom against the Turk, and whose praise had once filled the whole earth. They were
now as inoffensive as they were incapable. Their helplessness was their true defence,--and
the memory of their good deeds. At last, in 1798, Napoleon, on his way to Egypt, partly by
force and partly by treaty, obtained possession of it. So strong were its fortresses, that
he himself acknowledged that the knights needed only to have shut their gates against him to
have baffled him. Two years after, the English, watching their time, by blockade, starved out
the French garrison. Its new owners held it with their usual determination. Rather than surrender
it,--though they had made treaty-stipulations to that effect,--they deliberately entered upon
a ten-years' war with France. The indignation which Napoleon felt, and the language which he
used, show that he knew the value of the prize for which he was struggling. "I would rather,"
said he, "see you in possession of Montmartre than in possession of Malta." "Malta gives the
dominion of the Mediterranean; I thus lose the most important sea in the world, and the respect
of Europe. Nevertheless he was forced to yield to destiny stronger than his own iron will.
Eleven years more found him in sad exile, and the British flag still waving over the Valetta.

Nothing better illustrates the firmness with which England holds her purpose than the fate
of Aden. This is the halfway station between England and her East Indian possessions. It commands
the Red Sea. It is the best spot for a coal-depot in the East. Properly defended, it is almost
impregnable. The wide-roving eye of mercantile England had long ago searched out and in fancy
possessed it. Hear what one of her own historians has said:--"Eager eyes had long been turned
toward this spot." To find an excuse, real or apparent, for its appropriation was the trouble.
The Sultan of Lahidge, its owner, was indeed little better than a freebooter. But, though wild,
lawless, and of piratical tendencies, he had for a long time the wisdom not to molest British
traders. In 1839, however, whether from ignorance of its nationality, or from recklessness,
is uncertain, he seized and pillaged a native Madras boat sailing under British colors. The
East Indian government at once took advantage of the opportunity thus afforded. An ambassador
was sent to demand remuneration, and this remuneration was--Aden. The Sultan was at first disposed
to accede to this demand, but soon kindling into rage, he attempted to lay violent hands upon
the ambassador. The reply was--a fleet and a military force, which first cannonaded and then
stormed the stronghold at the point of the bayonet. So Aden passed into the hands which had
been waiting for years to grasp it. It is said by some writers that a compensation has been
made to the Sultan; but the sum is not mentioned, nor the authority for so doubtful a statement
given.

Hong Kong furnishes another illustration. Most, no doubt, are familiar with the general outlines
of the first Chinese War: how England stormed, one after another, the ill-constructed and worse-defended
Chinese forts, until the courage and insolence of the Lord of the Central Flowery Kingdom alike
failed. Why, now, did not England retain military possession of Canton, or some other important
commercial town? That would have given her much trouble and little profit. She chose rather
to retain only one sterile island of a few miles in diameter, whose possession would awaken
nobody's jealousy, but which would furnish a sufficient base for operations in any future wars.

One more example. Until about the beginning of the present century, Ceylon and Cape Colony
were Dutch possessions. This is the history of their loss. Soon after the French Revolution
broke out, Holland, with the consent of a portion of her people, was incorporated, if not in
name, yet in reality, into the French Empire. During the long wars of Napoleon, she shared
the fortunes of her master, and when continual defeats broke the power of both on the sea,
her colonies were left defenceless. Ceylon and Cape Colony fell into the hands of the English;
but so, too, did Java, Sumatra, Borneo, Essequibo, Berbice, and, indeed, with but little exception,
all her colonial possessions, East and West. At the peace of 1814, England restored to Holland
the larger portion of this territory, though not without many remonstrances from her own merchants
and statesmen. But Ceylon and Cape Colony she did not restore. These were more to her than
rich islands. They were links in a grand chain of commercial connection. As Aden is the half-way
station on the overland route, so Cape Colony is the half-way station on the ocean route; and
Ceylon, while it rounds out and completes the great peninsula of which it may be considered
to be a part, furnishes in Point de Galle, at the south, a most needed port of refuge, and
on the east, at Trincomalee, one of the finest of naval harbors, with dock-yards, machine-shops,
and arsenal complete. Even England could be generous to a fallen foe, whose enmity had been
quite as much a matter of necessity as inclination. But by no mistimed clemency could she sacrifice
such solid advantages as these.

This steady march toward the control of the commercial waters of the earth, some of whose footsteps
we have now traced, reveals the existence of as steady a purpose. This colonial empire, so
wide, so consistent, and so well compacted, is not the work of dull men, or the result of a
series of fortunate blunders. Back of its history, and creating its history, there must have
been a clear, calm, persistent, ambitious policy,--a policy which has usually regarded appearances,
but which has also managed to accomplish its cherished purposes. And the end towards which
this policy tends is always one and the same: to enlarge England's commercial resources, and
to build up side by side with this peaceful strength a naval power which shall keep untarnished
her proudest title,--"Mistress and sovereign of the seas."

       *       *       *       *       *

With justice England is called the mightiest naval power in the world. And well she may be.
She has every element to make her mighty. The waves which beat upon all her coasts train up
a race of seamen as hardy, as skilful, as courageous as ever sailed the sea. In her bosom are
hidden inexhaustible stores of iron, copper, and coal. Her Highland hills are covered with
forests of oak and larch, growing while men sleep. Her borders are crowded with workshops,
and her skies are dark with the smoke of their chimneys, and the air rings with the sound of
their hammers. Her docks are filled with ships, and her watchful guardians are on every sea.
Her eyes are open to profit by every invention. And her strong colonies, overlooking all waters,
give new vigor and a better distribution to her naval resources. A mighty naval power she is,
and, for good or evil, a mighty naval power she is likely to continue. The great revolutions
in warfare, which in our day are proceeding with such wonderful rapidity, may for a time disturb
this supremacy; but in the end, the genius of England, essentially maritime, and as clear and
strong on the sea as it is apt to be weak and confused upon the land, will enable her to stand
on her own element, as she has stood for centuries, with no superior, and with scarcely a rival.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR GENERAL.

An officer on General Butler's staff, residing constantly, while in New Orleans, under his
roof, having had direct personal observation of him during the entire progress of the "Ship-Island
Expedition," may perhaps be pardoned for putting on record in this magazine some characteristic
traits of the man whom this war has brought so prominently, not only before our own people,
but also the people of Europe.

In the execution of this task I shall confine myself to the mention of incidents of his administration
at New Orleans, and the relation of the inside history (the history of motive and cause) of
many of his public acts which elicited from the European press and the enemies of the Union
in our own land the bitterest abuse,--believing that in so doing I offer stronger proof of
the injustice of their attacks than I could possibly furnish by any attempt to argue them down.
And that the patience of my readers may not be unnecessarily taxed, I shall proceed without
further introduction to the consideration of OUR GENERAL in New Orleans.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the first difficulties which General Butler found in the way of the restoration of the
national authority in that city was the attitude of the foreign consuls. Under the leadership
of Mr. George Coppell, who was acting for the British Government in the absence of the consul,
Mr. Muir, they tacitly declared an offensive and defensive war of the guerrilla stamp against
every step or order for the promotion of loyal sentiment or the inculcation of a belief in
the strength of our Government. Nothing excited greater hostility abroad than the General's
treatment of these gentlemen, and in nothing has he been more admired by his loyal countrymen
than in his complete discomfiture of them.

I have noticed this little episode in the history of the Rebellion simply with the view of
showing, that, while officially he met their combined attacks with "war to the knife," his
personal intercourse with them was friendly and pleasant.

After the consuls had apparently abandoned their unsuccessful alliance in despair, Mr. Coppell,
who had never yet met the General, expressed, through the commander of Her Britannic Majesty's
frigate Rinaldo, a desire for an introduction to him.

The General received Mr. Coppell with marked cordiality, and was, I think, pleased with his
appearance; at all events, from that time until we left the city Mr. Coppell was frequently
at the office, oftentimes by invitation of the General, and nothing ever occurred to disturb
the harmony of their personal relations.

On one occasion they were discussing the French and English statutes prohibiting the subjects
of those powers from holding slaves. A large number of French and English subjects were living
in open violation of this prohibition in New Orleans, and the General remarked to Mr. Coppell
that he had a great mind to heap coals of fire on the heads of his friends across the Atlantic
by enforcing their laws. Mr. Coppell with eager enthusiasm applauded the project, and urged
the General to carry it into effect.

The Spanish Government was represented in New Orleans by Don Juan Callejon. Early in the summer
the strictness of our quarantine of vessels from Cuba produced some ill feeling on his part,
which manifested itself in the refusal of a clean bill of health to the steamer Roanoke, about
to leave New Orleans for Havana. In response to a request from the General, Don Juan called
immediately at the office; but owing to the unfortunate circumstance of his entire ignorance
of the English language, and the consequent necessity of conversing through the medium of an
interpreter, a serious misunderstanding ensued, and the General, supposing the Consul to be
contemptuously setting our Government at defiance, threatened to send him out of the country;
but afterwards learning that their difference had arisen purely from misinterpretation, and
that Señor Callejon had proved himself a patriot and hero in his country's service, the General,
with the honest admiration which one brave man always feels toward another, took especial pains
to render their intercourse, both official and personal, as agreeable as might be. And to show
the Spanish consul that in the matter of quarantine he was inspired by no dislike toward his
Government, he placed more rigid restrictions, if possible, on American vessels from infected
ports than on the vessels of Spain.

To Señor Ruiz, the acting consul of the Republic of Mexico, who had the singular consular virtue
of sympathizing warmly with the free North, the General's attentions were something more sincere
than the hackneyed "assurances of distinguished consideration" so necessary to diplomatic correspondence
and intercourse.

Indeed, I doubt if any of the foreign commercial agents at New Orleans would claim that they
ever had cause to complain against General Butler on account of any personal grievance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Probably nothing in the history of General Butler's administration in New Orleans drew from
the foes of free government in every land such unmeasured execration as the celebrated "Order
No. 28," relating to the conduct of women in the street, and I wish to give the most decided
testimony upon this subject. That something was necessary to be done to stop the insults to
which we were continually subjected by the other sex, I presume no one who is well informed
as to their frequency and humiliating character will for a moment doubt. Upon our arrival in
the city I flattered myself that such demonstrations would excite in me no sentiment more serious
than pity for the childishness that prompted them; but I confess, that, after a day or two,
the sneers and contortions of countenance, the angry withholding of the dress from contact
with my person, and the abrupt departure from the sidewalk to the middle of the street to avoid
even passing the hated uniform, were too much for my philosophy, and gave me a sense of humiliation
more painful than I can express. And yet the insults I received were slight, compared to those
offered to many of our officers and men.

This condition of affairs continued about two weeks, until it became positively intolerable.

Young officers, too gallant, and too deeply imbued with the American respect for woman, to
resent, by word or deed, the indignity, would come to the General with their cheeks crimson
with shame and the effort to repress their just indignation, and beg him to take some measure
for the suppression of the evil.

Most men would have seen no other solution of the difficulty than the arrest and punishment
of a few of the offenders as a warning to the rest. But General Butler foresaw, what was afterwards
proved in the case of Mrs. Larue, that the arrest of women would invariably provoke a street-disturbance,
which might lead to bloodshed; he, therefore, remembering an old ordinance of the city of London,
republished it in the form of the General Order which has gained so universal a celebrity.

Mr. Monroe, who was mayor of the city at the time of its capture, came in a paroxysm of anger
to protest against the order as a libel on every lady in New Orleans.

The General, with perfect good-nature, went over every word of it with him, explaining its
origin and its intent, and demonstrating beyond doubt that it simply gave the female population
of the city the opportunity to choose in which of the two categories they would be classed,--ladies
or "common women,"--and assured the Mayor, that, above all, his idea was to promulgate such
an order as would execute itself, and prevent the very thing which the Rebels have since charged
upon him,--"a war upon women."

Three times Mr. Monroe left the General with the firm conviction that the act was perfectly
proper; but, instigated by crafty and able conspirators, of whom the ruling spirit was Mr.
Pierre Soulè, he repeatedly returned with fresh attacks on the General's administration, and
especially on this order, until, the General's patience being exhausted, he said to him,--"Mr.
Mayor, you have played with me long enough. Your case is settled. The boat leaves for Fort
Jackson this afternoon, and you must be ready to take passage on her at four o'clock."

I never witnessed greater forbearance than the General displayed in his treatment of the Mayor;
indeed, I was at the time quite indignant that he allowed him such liberty of speech and action.

One word more about "Order No. 28." General Beauregard's fierce anger, and his horrible construction
of its provisions, intended for effect on his troops, will be well remembered by my readers.
It may not be uninteresting to them to know that Beauregard's sister in New Orleans, when asked
her opinion of the order, answered,--"I have no interest in or objection to it; it does not
apply to me." Is it difficult to guess to which class she belonged?

Can I say anything stronger in vindication of the propriety of this order, or of the General's
sagacity in issuing it, than that the first twenty-four hours after its promulgation witnessed
a complete, and, it seemed to us who were there, almost miraculous, change in the deportment
of the ladies of the Crescent City? If success is the test of merit, then was it one of the
most meritorious acts of the war.

       *       *       *       *       *

The severity with which General Butler punished crimes against the Government that he was determined
should be respected, or against the poor and oppressed, was of course in the Confederacy and
in Europe denounced as the most fiendish cruelty, and he was characterized as a man whose every
impulse was prompted by the most brutal passions.

I do not expect the people of the South to believe my statement, that I never met a man of
greater generosity and kindness of heart, or one more pleased to do an act of clemency; but
I think the loyal reader will find in the following illustrations of these traits evidence
of its truth.

Among the Rebel soldiers who were captured at the surrender of Fort Jackson, in April, 1862,
were four men who, with the remainder of the garrison, were paroled as prisoners of war, but
were soon after discovered in an attempt to organize a company, of which they were elected
officers, with the view of crossing our lines by force and rejoining the Rebel army, and upon
their own confession were convicted and sentenced to be shot,--the only expiation known to
the rules of civilized warfare for so flagrant a violation of the parole.

During the interval between their conviction and the day appointed for their execution, I had
occasion to see them frequently, and was strongly impressed with the idea that they had sinned
in ignorance of the magnitude of their offence, and that a commutation of the death-penalty
would be of more benefit than injury to our cause. As the day of their death rapidly drew near,
and I observed their agonized despair of a reprieve, and their earnest, sincere efforts to
prepare for a fate they deemed inevitable, I determined to make an urgent appeal to the General
for their lives.

On the afternoon previous to the day of their expected execution, I went to the General's room
and implored him to relent toward the unhappy men.

The General, in a kind, but apparently decided manner, met my urgent request by referring to
the proofs of their guilt, and the necessity of the severest punishment as an example to others.

I was well aware of the futility of attempting to reason with the astute lawyer, who had all
the law on his side, and twenty years' experience at the bar in cases where he had met every
argument that ingenuity could devise; so, avoiding his reasoning, I appealed directly to his
feelings. In this I was most earnestly and efficiently aided by one of his household, whose
heart and influence were always on the side of tenderness and mercy.

The earnestness with which I urged the cause of the wretched prisoners excited in me an interest
I was not before conscious of feeling, and I suddenly found myself almost unable to speak from
the choking emotions which swelled up into my throat.

Beneath the General's argument for abstract justice, I thought, however, I discovered a warm
sympathy for my distress, and I gathered encouragement.

In a few minutes an officer who had been in the room during our interview, and from whom the
General desired to conceal his benevolent intention toward the men, took his leave. The General
turned to me immediately, and, in a voice scarcely audible, said,--"Do not feel so badly, Captain;
it shall be all right."

Not daring to trust my voice, I bowed my thanks and left the room, happy in the possession
of so agreeable a secret.

The next morning, as I rode out to the spot assigned for the terrible tragedy, and gazed upon
the silent, curious crowd that followed, and upon the four men sitting there upon those rough
pine coffins, straining their eager eyes for one long last look at the glorious sun whose rising
they were never again to see, I doubted if their happiness, when an hour hence they would be
returning to the city with joyous anticipations of assured life, would be any more sincere
than his,--"the American Haynau's,"--who, in his room at the St. Charles Hotel, rejoiced that
he had been able to indulge the inclinations of his heart without detriment to the service.

In justice to others, I ought to add that a strong effort for the pardon of these prisoners
was made by a number of the prominent residents of New Orleans.

It was in June of last year, I think, that a German bookseller named Keller was sent by General
Butler to Ship Island for two years for exhibiting in his shop-window a human skeleton labelled
"Chickahominy," claiming it to be the bones of some gallant soldier of the Union, army who
had fallen in one of the disastrous battles in Virginia.

At his examination, Keller protested that he was a Union man, and had been imposed upon by
some designing person who had taken advantage of his ignorance to make his shop the medium
of displaying contempt and hatred of our cause by the revolting spectacle I have mentioned.
It was proved, however, that Keller had said these were the bones of a Yankee. His defence
may or may not have been true; but, at all events, he was apparently not an evil-disposed person,
and I always believed the General punished the offence rather than the man.

After Keller had been on Ship Island some two or three months, his wife, a very modest, respectable
little woman, came to me frequently with a piteous story of the suffering occasioned herself
and her children by the prolonged absence of her husband, and begged me to intercede with the
General for his pardon. Satisfied that the cause could suffer no injury by the return of the
unfortunate man to his home, I promised to do my best to obtain his release. Accordingly, I
took advantage of every favorable opportunity to drop a word in the hearing of the General
for the benefit of poor Keller, who was pining away in his confinement at a rate that bade
fair soon to render him as valuable a subject for anatomical research as the article he had
exhibited in his shop-window.

At first my efforts met with very doubtful encouragement; but I was satisfied that the General's
obduracy was caused by a conflict between his sense of public duty and his natural tendency
toward forgiveness; so, fully assured that a few weeks would produce the desired result, I
contented myself with merely recalling the ease to his memory whenever an opportunity offered.

Toward the last of October, being somewhat impatient at my tardy progress, I had just resolved
to abandon my previous policy of waiting for time to do its work, and to make a vigorous onslaught
upon the General's sympathies, when I learned that he had issued an order for Keller's release;
and thus I was confirmed in my opinion that the General's heart was not proof against the claims
of the unfortunate erring.

In the case of Mrs. Phillips, who was banished to Ship Island for her ghastly levity over the
dead body of the gallant and lamented young De Kay, the General ordered a release after three
months of exile, because he learned that her health was suffering in consequence of separation
from her friends; and I doubt very much if she would have remained in duress three weeks, if
the Rebel newspapers had not taunted the General so much, and threatened an expedition against
the island for the purpose of rescuing the fair prisoner.

Mrs. Larue and Mrs. Cowen, the only other women who were imprisoned,--the former for openly
distributing treasonable pamphlets in the street, thereby causing a riot, and the latter for
publishing in a newspaper a card of defiance against the national authority,--after two weeks
of punishment, were pardoned on the first intimation that they were suffering in health or
comfort. Indeed, the General never desired the imprisonment of any person a single day beyond
the time necessary for his correction, or longer than the requirements of justice demanded.
I presume very few persons are aware that one of his last acts in New Orleans was to recommend
to General Banks the pardon of all prisoners confined on mere political charges.

       *       *       *       *       *

On account of the great and increasing pressure on the General's time by the immense and miscellaneous
crowd of visitors, it was found necessary to establish an office outside of his, where every
unknown caller should state his business to the officer in charge, who would decide whether
or not it was essential for the person to see the General.

For a few weeks I had charge of this office, and nearly all my time was occupied in refusing
passes outside of our lines. In a majority of instances, the applicants for the privilege of
going into the Confederacy--many of them women--told the most sorrowful tales of destitution
that could be relieved only by reaching their friends in the enemy's country; others urged,
that a husband, a father, or a brother was enjoined by the physician to seek the country as
the sole means of securing a return of health; in short, I was plied with every conceivable
story of heart-rending woe and misery, related to induce the granting of passes, which the
General, in consequence of the fact that in almost every instance where he had yielded to such
importunities his confidence had been abused by the carrying of supplies and information to
the Rebel army, had ordered me invariably to refuse. Ordinarily I succeeded in steeling my
heart against these urgent entreaties; but occasionally some story, peculiarly harrowing in
its details, seemed to demand a special effort in behalf of the applicant, and I would go to
the General, and, in the desperation of my cause, exclaim,--

"General, you must see some of these people. I know, if you would only hear their stories,
you would give them passes."

"You are entirely correct, Captain," he would reply. "I am sure I should; and that is precisely
why I want you to see them for me."

And with this very doubtful satisfaction I would return to my desk, convinced that sensibility
in a man who was allowed no discretion in its exercise was an entirely useless attribute, and
that in future I would set my face as a flint against every appeal to my feelings.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since my return to the North, I have heard a number of gentlemen--former political associates
of General Butler--compare his "marvellous conversion" (here they always look, and apparently
mean to be, severely sarcastic) on the slavery-question with that of Saul of Tarsus to Christianity.

If the last two years of our history have failed to educate them up to the meaning of this
war, I confess that I think them almost incorrigible; yet I cannot believe that even they,
if they had had the experience which has placed not only General Butler, but almost every one
of the twenty thousand men composing the old "Army of the Gulf," firmly on the side of freedom
to all, of whatever complexion, could longer withstand the dictates of God and humanity.

Let me describe one or two of the scenes I witnessed in New Orleans, that opened our eyes to
the true nature of human bondage. The following incident is the same so well told by the General
himself to the committee of the New-York Chamber of Commerce, at the Fifth-Avenue Hotel, in
January last, and which was then reported in full in the New-York "Times." One of my objects
in repeating this story is to illustrate my implicit confidence--inspired by my knowledge of
his character--in the General's humanity and championship of the weak and down-trodden.

Just previous to the arrival of General Banks in New Orleans I was appointed Deputy-Provost-Marshal
of the city, and held the office for some days after he had assumed command. One day, during
the last week of our stay in the South, a young woman of about twenty years called upon me
to complain that her landlord had ordered her out of her house, because she was unable longer
to pay the rent, and she wished me to authorise her to take possession of one of her father's
houses that had been confiscated, he being a wealthy Rebel, then in the Confederacy, and actively
engaged in the Rebellion.

The girl was a perfect blonde in complexion: her hair was of a very pretty, light shade of
brown, and perfectly straight; her eyes a clear, honest gray; and her skin as delicate and
fair as a child's. Her manner was modest and ingenuous, and her language indicated much intelligence.

Considering these circumstances, I think I was justified in wheeling around in my chair and
indulging in an unequivocal stare of incredulous amazement, when in the course of conversation
she dropped a remark about having been born a slave.

"Do you mean to tell me," said I, "that you have negro blood in your veins?" And I was conscious
of a feeling of embarrassment at asking a question so apparently preposterous.

"Yes," she replied, and then related the history of her life, which I shall repeat as briefly
as possible.

"My father," she commenced, "is Mr. Cox, formerly a judge of one of the courts in this city.
He was very rich, and owned a great many houses here. There is one of them over there," she
remarked, naïvely, pointing to a handsome residence opposite my office in Canal Street. "My
mother was one of his slaves. When I was sufficiently grown, he placed me at school at the
Mechanics' Institute Seminary, on Broadway, New York. I remained there until I was about fifteen
years of age, when Mr. Cox came on to New York and took me from the school to a hotel, where
he obliged me to live with him as his mistress; and to-day, at the age of twenty-one, I am
the mother of a boy five years old who is my father's son. After remaining some time in New
York, he took me to Cincinnati and other cities at the North, in all of which I continued to
live with him as before. During this sojourn in the Free States, I induced him to give me a
deed of manumission; but on our return to New Orleans he obtained it from me, and destroyed
it. At this time I tried to break off the unnatural connection, whereupon he caused me to be
publicly whipped in the streets of the city, and then obliged me to marry a colored man; and
now he has run off, leaving me without the least provision against want or actual starvation,
and I ask you to give me one of his houses that I may have a home for myself and three little
children."

Strange and improbable as this story appeared, I remembered, as it progressed, that I had heard
it from Governor Shepley, who, as well as General Butler, had investigated it, and learned
that it was not only true in every particular, but was perfectly familiar to the citizens of
New Orleans, by whom Judge Cox had been elected to administer JUSTICE.

The clerks of my office, most of whom were old residents of the city, were well informed in
the facts of the case, and attested the truth of the girl's story.

I was exceedingly perplexed, and knew not what to do in the matter; but after some thought
I answered her thus:--

"This Department has changed rulers, and I know nothing of the policy of the new commander.
If General Butler were still in authority, I should not hesitate a moment to grant your request,--for,
even if I should commit an error of judgment, I am perfectly certain he would overlook it,
and applaud the humane impulse that prompted the act; but General Banks might be less indulgent,
and make very serious trouble with me for taking a step he would perhaps regard as unwarrantable."

I still hesitated, undecided how to act, when suddenly a happy thought struck me, and, turning
to the girl, I added,--

"To-day is Thursday; next Tuesday I leave this city with General Butler for a land where, thank
God! such wrongs as yours cannot exist; and, as General Banks is deeply engrossed in the immediate
business at head-quarters, he will hardly hear of my action before the ship leaves,--so I am
going to give you the house."

I am sure the kind-hearted reader will find no fault with me that I took particular pains to
select one of the largest of her father's houses, (it contained forty rooms,) when she told
me that she wanted to let the apartments as a means of support to herself and her children.

My only regret in the case was that Mr. Cox had not been considerate enough to leave a carriage
and pair of bays on my hands, that I might have had the satisfaction of enabling his daughter
to disport herself about the city in a style corresponding to her importance as a member of
so wealthy and respectable a family.

And this story that I have just told reminds me of another, similar in many respects.

One Sunday morning, late last summer, as I came down-stairs to the breakfast-room, I was surprised
to find a large number of persons assembled in the library.

When I reached the door, a member of the Staff took me by the arm, and drew me into the room
toward a young and delicate mulatto girl who was standing against the opposite wall, with the
meek, patient bearing of her race, so expressive of the system of repression to which they
have been so long subjected.

Drawing down the border of her dress, my conductor showed me a sight more revolting than I
trust ever again to behold.

The poor girl's back was flayed until the quivering flesh resembled a fresh beefsteak scorched
on a gridiron. With a cold chill creeping through my veins, I turned away from the sickening
spectacle, and for an explanation of the affair scanned the various persons about the room.

In the centre of the group, at his writing-table, sat the General. His head rested on his hand,
and he was evidently endeavoring to fix his attention upon the remarks of a tall, swarthy-looking
man who stood opposite, and who, I soon discovered, was the owner of the girl, and was attempting
a defence of the foul outrage he had committed upon the unresisting and helpless person of
his unfortunate victim, who stood smarting, but silent, under the dreadful pain inflicted by
the brutal lash.

By the side of the slaveholder stood our Adjutant-General, his face livid with almost irrepressible
rage, and his fists tight-clenched, as if to violently restrain himself from visiting the guilty
wretch with summary and retributive justice. Disposed about the room, in various attitudes,
but all exhibiting in their countenances the same mingling of horror and indignation, were
other members of the Staff,--while, near the door, stood three or four house-servants, who
were witnesses in the case.

To the charge of having administered the inhuman castigation, Landry (the owner of the girl)
pleaded guilty, but urged in extenuation that the girl had dared to make an effort for that
freedom which her instincts, drawn from the veins of her abuser, had taught her was the God-given
right of all who possess the germ of immortality, no matter what the color of the casket in
which it is hidden.

I say "drawn from the veins of her abuser," because she declared she was his daughter,--and
every one in the room, looking upon the man and woman confronting each other, confessed that
the resemblance justified the assertion.

After the conclusion of all the evidence in the case, the General continued in the same position
as before, and remained for some time apparently lost in abstraction. I shall never forget
the singular expression on his face.

I had been accustomed to see him in a storm of passion at any instance of oppression or flagrant
injustice; but on this occasion he was too deeply affected to obtain relief in the usual way.

His whole air was one of dejection, almost listlessness; his indignation too intense, and his
anger too stern, to find expression even in his countenance.

Never have I seen that peculiar look but on three or four occasions similar to the one I am
narrating, when I knew he was pondering upon the baleful curse that had cast its withering
blight upon all around, until the manhood and humanity were crushed out of the people, and
outrages such as the above were looked upon with complacency, and the perpetrators treated
as respected and worthy citizens,--and that he was realizing the great truth, that, however
man might endeavor to guide this war to the advantage of a favorite idea or sagacious policy,
the Almighty was directing it surely and steadily for the purification of our country from
this greatest of national sins.

But to return to my story. After sitting in the mood which I have described at such length,
the General again turned to the prisoner, and said, in a quiet, subdued tone of voice,--

"Mr. Landry, I dare not trust myself to decide to-day what punishment would be meet for your
offence, for I am in that state of mind that I fear I might exceed the strict demands of justice.
I shall therefore place you under guard for the present, until I conclude upon your sentence."

A few days after, a number of influential citizens having represented to the General that Mr.
Landry was not only a "high-toned gentleman," but a person of unusual "AMIABILITY" of character,
and was consequently entitled to no small degree of leniency, he answered, that, in consideration
of the prisoner's "high-toned" character, and especially of his "amiability," of which he had
seen so remarkable a proof, he had determined to meet their views, and therefore ordered that
Landry give a deed of manumission to the girl, and pay a fine of five hundred dollars, to be
placed in the hands of a trustee for her benefit.

It is the passing through such scenes as I have described, and the contemplation of the condition
to which Slavery has reduced society at the South, combined with a natural inclination to espouse
the cause of the oppressed, that has placed General Butler in the front rank of the "Champions
of Freedom."

I remember, so long ago as last July, his turning to me, after reading the story of our sad
reverses in Virginia, and remarking that he believed God was directing the issues of the war
for a great purpose, and that only in so far as we followed His guidance should we be successful.
I have heard him repeat this in effect several times since, and have seen the conviction growing
within his mind deeper and deeper, as events proved its correctness, down to the present time.

And yet an Episcopal clergyman of New York told me, the other evening, that General Butler
was an Atheist.

       *       *       *       *       *

General Butler's forbearance and kindness of heart are, I think, well illustrated in the true
history of his controversy with General Phelps last summer, in regard to the employment of
negroes coming within our lines. His position on that question was at that time somewhat misunderstood.
Indeed, a gentleman observed to me only a short time since, referring to General Butler's allowing
General Phelps to resign, "General Butler served General Phelps just right."

"So he did," I replied; "but you and I probably differ some in our ideas of right and wrong."

The case, in brief, was this.

General Phelps--as good a man, as honest and whole-souled a patriot, and as brave and thorough
a soldier as there is in the service--was in command at Carrolton,--our principal line of defence.
The negroes escaping from the plantations had gathered about his camp to the number of many
hundreds. General Phelps almost immediately initiated steps toward making them soldiers. The
residents, greatly alarmed, or affecting to be, lest they should soon be the victims of an
ungovernable armed mob, addressed the most urgent remonstrances to General Butler against General
Phelps's proceedings. The General was much perplexed; the Government had not yet indicated
any policy on this important subject, and although I am satisfied his sympathies were with
General Phelps, (the alacrity with which he soon after organized negro regiments is the best
evidence of this,) he did not feel justified in officially approving his course. Determined
to avoid anything like a bitter opposition to a measure that his head and heart both told him
was intrinsically right, he sought for a means of compromise. Circumstances soon furnished
the opportunity.

The enemy was threatening the city with speedy attack, and it was deemed of the highest importance
to cut away the thick growth of trees in front of Carrolton for nearly a mile. The General
at once ordered General Phelps to set his negro brigade at this work, and in the order was
particular to quote General Phelps's own opinion, previously delivered, on the necessity of
the project. General Phelps, who was determined that the negroes should be soldiers or nothing,
evasively declined obeying the order. General Butler then wrote him a letter presenting fresh
arguments, showing how essential it was that the soldiers, who would soon be obliged to defend
the city, should be spared as far as possible from unusual fatigue-duty, and inclosed a peremptory
order for the performance of the work by the negroes. By the same messenger he also sent a
confidential letter, which I wrote at his dictation, in which, in terms of the warmest friendship
and honest appreciation of General Phelps's exalted courage, sincere patriotism, and other
noble qualities, he begged him not to place himself in an attitude of hostility to his commanding
officer. A more delicate, generous, or considerate letter I never read; but it was of no avail.
General Phelps persisted in his refusal to obey, and tendered his resignation. What did General
Butler do?

He would have been justified in the arrest and court-martial of General Phelps, and few men
could resist so good an opportunity to assert their authority; but he knew that General Phelps
had been for years the victim of the Slave Power, until his mind had become so absorbed in
detestation of the institution that he was conscientiously and inexorably opposed to the slightest
step that could even remotely be construed as assisting in its support. Moreover, General Butler's
esteem for General Phelps was deep and sincere; and those who know the General well will readily
understand how repugnant to his nature is the abrupt change from warm friendship to open hostility.

But to recur to my question,--What did General Butler do? He simply forwarded General Phelps's
resignation to Washington, with the earnest request that the Government would proclaim some
policy in regard to the contrabands, and shortly after, learning that the story of an intended
attack on the city at that time was a canard, allowed the matter to drop. When, a little later,
the enrolment of negroes in the United States' service was in order, where were they so promptly
enlisted and equipped as in the grand old "Department of the Gulf"?

Reading the other day the retaliatory resolutions of the Rebel Congress recalled to my mind
the terrible earnestness with which the General declared in New Orleans, "For every one of
my black soldiers who may be murdered by their captors, two Rebel soldiers shall hang." And
I know he meant it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The London "Times" has said that General Butler is a "monster of cruelty," devoid of every
sentiment of benevolence or tenderness, and the cry has been taken up and echoed by the press
of Continental Europe. Perhaps he is; but the thirty-four thousand poor people of New Orleans
whom he fed every day refuse to believe it. I could wish that some of these libellers of his
humanity had been in New Orleans to see the character of the crowd that thronged his office
from morning till night. There were persons of almost every condition and color,--the great
majority being poor and wretched men and women, who brought their every grief and trouble to
lay at the feet of the man whom they believed possessed of the power and the will to redress
every wrong and heal every sorrow. Was it surprising? Did it look as though they feared his
fierce anger and his cruel wrath? Was it not rather the humble testimony of their instinct
that he whose first and every act in their city was for the amelioration of suffering was the
one to whom they should apply for relief in every woe? And what patience he exhibited under
this great and increasing addition to his official cares! Unless the complaint or request were
frivolous or disloyal, he always listened respectfully, and then applied the remedy to the
wrong, or carefully explained the means suited to the relief of the distress, and the proper
course for obtaining it.

Shortly after our arrival in New Orleans, the Sisters in charge of the Orphan Asylum of St.
Elizabeth called upon the General and represented that institution as in a state of literal
destitution from lack of provisions and the money with which to procure them. This unfortunate
condition of suffering was one of the legitimate consequences of active Secession, and no one
could be held responsible for it but the leaders of the Rebellion. But the General did not
stop to discuss the question of responsibility; he knew that here were several hundred children
who were crying for bread, and with characteristic promptitude gave them an order on the Chief
Commissary for a very large amount of stores,--to be charged to his personal account,--adding
a sum of five hundred dollars in money from his pocket.

The Convent of the Sacred Heart, near New Orleans, owed its continued existence almost entirely
to his individual charities; and the same may be said of all the benevolent institutions in
and about the city.

I have rarely seen him more angry than when he discovered that a committee of the City Council,
who held, as trustees, the Touro Fund, left by its generous donor for the support of orphans,
had outraged their trust by applying a large amount of the legacy to the purchase of munitions
of war for the Rebellion. He had them brought under guard to the office, and, unable to restrain
his contempt for the dishonor of the act, expressed his opinion in terms that must have scathed
them fearfully, unless their sensibilities were utterly callous. He then sent them to Fort
Pickens, there to remain until every cent of the money they had so wantonly diverted from its
legitimate purpose should be repaid.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the most striking of the General's traits is the quick comprehension which enables him
to meet almost any question with a ready and commonly a witty reply.

During the earlier period of our occupation of New Orleans, persons were constantly applying
to him to give them an order to search within our lines for runaway negroes; and it is a good
illustration of the assurance of our enemies, that in a majority of cases the persons so applying
were avowed traitors. The following is a fair sample of the conversation that would follow
such an application.

"General, I wish you would give me an order to search for my negro," the visitor would commence.

"Have you lost your horse?" the General would ask, in reply.

"No, Sir."

"Have you lost your mule?" the General would add.

"No, Sir," the applicant for the order would answer, looking exceedingly puzzled at such unusual
questions.

"Well, Sir, if you had lost your horse or your mule, would you come and ask me to neglect my
duty to the Government for the purpose of assisting you to catch them?"

"Of course not," the visitor would reply, with increasing astonishment.

"Then why should you expect me to employ myself in hunting after any other article of your
property?"

And with this comforting and practical application of the Dred-Scott decision, the ex-owner
of the fugitive slave would take his departure, a wiser, and, I doubt not, a sadder man.

During an interview between the General and the Reverend Doctor Leacock, (Rector of Grace Church
in New Orleans, and one of the three Episcopal clergymen who refused to read the prayer for
the President, and were therefore sent North as prisoners, under my charge,) in which the General
urged upon the Doctor his views on the injurious influence of disloyalty in the pulpit, sustaining
his argument by prolific quotations from Scripture, recited with an accuracy and appositeness
that few theologians could exceed, the Doctor replied,--

"But, General, your insisting upon the taking of the oath of allegiance is causing half of
my church-members to perjure themselves."

"If that is the case, I am glad I have not had the spiritual charge of your church for the
last nine years," (just the term of Dr. Leacock's pastorate,) the General answered, promptly.

After a lengthy conversation, the Doctor finally asked,--

"Well, General, are you going to shut up the churches?"

"No, Sir, I am more likely to shut up the ministers," he replied.

To the casual observer this would appear but a brilliant repartee, while, in fact, it was significant
as indicative of a sagacious policy. Closing the churches would have given warrant to the charge
of interference with the observances of religion. So careful was the General to avoid anything
of this nature, that, in every instance where a clergyman was removed from his church, the
very next Sunday found his pulpit occupied by a loyal minister.

As a great many excellent Churchmen have misunderstood the cause of the arrest of clergymen
in New Orleans, I think I must add a word of explanation. The ministers so arrested were of
the Episcopal denomination, in which the rector is required to read a liturgy prescribed by
the General Convention. In this liturgy occurs "a prayer for the President of the United States,"
and its omission in their reading of the service was clearly an overt act of disloyalty, in
that it was by unmistakable implication a declaration that they did not recognize the authority
of the President of the United States; and it is a fact not generally known, that this omission
in the service was supplied by the minister's regularly announcing, "A few moments will now
be spent in silent prayer." Who can doubt the character and burden of this voiceless petition,
when it is understood that it was the successor to an audible appeal--which General Butler
suppressed--to Heaven for Jefferson Davis and the success of his cause?

       *       *       *       *       *

Another of the General's strongest characteristics is his firm faith, his ardent hopefulness.
Never have I known him despondent as to the final result of this war. He believes it to be
a struggle for principle and right, and therefore his confidence in the ultimate success of
our arms never falters. Frequently disheartened myself at our apparent ill-fortune, I have
listened to his cheerful predictions and expressions of unflagging trust, and have come away
strengthened and confident.

After our return to the North, an ex-mayor of Chicago was introduced to the General at the
St. Nicholas Hotel in New York. It was just at a time when our cause looked very gloomy. The
Mayor was evidently much depressed by the indications of national misfortune, and in a tone
of great despondency asked the General,--

"Do you believe we shall ever get through this war successfully?"

"Yes, Sir," the General answered, very decidedly.

"Well, but how?" asked the Mayor.

"God knows, I don't; but I know He does, so I am satisfied," the General replied.

And in this reply was contained an admirable expression of that earnest faith in the inevitable
triumph of good over evil which forms so prominent a part of his nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

In this short sketch I have either entirely avoided or merely hinted at the traits which have
given General Butler a world-wide distinction. His wonderful energy, his sagacity, his courage,
his great executive and administrative ability, and, more than all, the marvellous comprehension,
which, at the firing of the first gun at Fort Sumter, enabled him to grasp the subject of this
Rebellion in all its magnitude and bearings, and in the means and measures for its suppression,
are attributes made familiar to the world as "household words" by his unprecedented administration
in New Orleans.

The story of the years of experience crowded into those eight short months of our sojourn in
that city is worthy the pen of our country's ablest historian, and would fill volumes.

To relate all the instances of General Butler's kindness and generosity, his forbearance and
magnanimity, while in New Orleans, would require more than all the space between the covers
of the "Atlantic."

I have undertaken the grateful task of recording some of the more prominent scenes, where he
displayed the kindly, genial traits so utterly inconsistent with the indiscriminate charges
of cruelty, injustice, and wrong, preferred by his enemies,--traits that have inexpressibly
endeared their possessor to every officer and soldier in his late army. Said an officer, but
just returned from New Orleans, to me a few days since,--"I have heard of the infatuation of
the Army of the Potomac to its earlier leader, but I do not believe their devotion is near
so deep and earnest as that of the faithful men who followed General Butler from New England
and the Northwest, through the campaign of New Orleans."

Not one of us who have been closely associated with him but watches with intense interest for
the opportunity to arrive when he shall prove himself to be (as every one of us believes him
to be) among the foremost of those predestined to lead our country through its baptism of blood
and fire to a higher and grander destiny and glory than the most ardent dared even to hope
for before the war.

Happy then shall I be, if in these few pages I have conveyed to the indulgent readers of this
article some idea of the inner life and character of OUR GENERAL.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CLAIMS TO SERVICE OR LABOR.

Some persons look upon the veneration with which the people of these United States regard the
Constitution as savoring of superstition. It is at least a wholesome superstition, which cannot
be disturbed without risk.

When a man, in calm moments of deliberate reflection, has settled and adopted the principles
of ethics and morality which ought to govern his life, and when, under the pressure of urgent
exigency, or in moments of eager excitement, his view of their truth or value undergoes a sudden
change, it is not safe to give way to such influence. He would evince wisdom in calling to
mind, that, in hours of tranquil judgment, with no passion to blind and no impulse of the moment
to urge beyond reason, he had adopted certain principles of action, for guidance and safety.

Doubtless age may correct, and ought to correct, the errors of youth. But when we change a
life-rule, it should be from a matured conviction, that, on general principles, the correction
is just and proper; not because it would afford relief or satisfaction for the time being,
or prove convenient for some special purpose.

So of the Constitution of the United States. Of fallible because human origin, it is imperfect.
A rule of political action in a progressive world, it was by its founders properly made subject
to amendment. At the first session of the first Congress ten amendments were adopted; two have
been added since; and experience has approved this action.

That other amendments may hereafter be necessary and proper it would be presumptuous to deny.
But we ought to touch the ark of our political testimony with careful and reverent hand.

All legislative bodies are liable to sudden and wayward impulses. To these the Congress of
our young country is more exposed than the Parliaments or Chambers of older nations. It would
have been very unsafe to trust a Congressional majority with the power of amending the Constitution.

Difficulties and delays were properly put in the way of exercising such a prerogative. To two-thirds
of both houses, or to a convention called by the legislatures of two-thirds of the several
States, was granted the power of proposing amendments; while the power to ratify these was
not confided to less than to the legislatures, or to the conventions, of three-fourths of the
States composing the Union.

To alter the Constitution in any other way--as by the consent of a majority only of the several
States--would be a revolutionary act. Doubtless revolutionary acts become a justifiable remedy
on rare and great occasions, as in 1776; but they are usually replete with danger. They are
never more dangerous than when employed by one section of a confederacy against another, weaker
section of the same. To the stability of government, it is necessary that the rights of minorities
should be strictly respected. The end does not necessarily justify the means. "No example,"
says an eminent and philosophical writer, "is more dangerous than that of violence employed
for a good purpose by well-meaning men."[6]

    [Footnote 6: "Il n'y a pas de plus dangereux exemple que celui de
    la violence exercée pour le bien et par les gens de
    bien."--"L'Ancien Régime et la Révolution," par Alexis de
    Tocqueville, Paris, 1856, p. 310.]

To such considerations has it been, in a measure, due that the people of the United States,
with as much unanimity as usually characterizes any national decision, have held back, until
now, from following the example of the civilized nations of Europe in emancipating their slaves.
Until the Secessionists levied war against the Union, not the Democratic party alone, but the
mass of the Republican party also, assented to the declaration in Abraham Lincoln's Inaugural,
that they had "no purpose to interfere, directly or indirectly, with the institution of Slavery
in the States where it exists." It had never been possible to obtain the votes of three-fourths
of the States in favor of emancipation; and a large majority of those who held human servitude
to be a moral wrong had looked upon its toleration among our neighbors of the South as an evil
of less magnitude than the violation of the Constitution.

Though the wisdom of the ablest statesmen of the Revolution, without distinction of sections,
recognized negro slavery as an iniquity and as a political element fraught with inevitable
danger in the future, yet the evils and the dangers which are inseparably connected with that
element have never been so clearly seen, have never made themselves so terribly apparent, as
in the course of this war.

The conviction that Slavery is a standing menace to the integrity of the Union and the one
great obstacle to peace gathers strength so rapidly from day to day, that many men are adopting
the opinion, that it must needs be extirpated, if even at the cost of a revolutionary act.

It would be a misfortune, if this were the alternative. It is easy to pass the limit of regulated
authority, but impossible to estimate the dangers we may encounter when that guardian limit
is once transgressed. We may resolve that we will go thus far and no farther. So thought the
honest and earnest Girondists of revolutionary France; but the current to which they had first
opened a passage swept them away. Though the experiment succeed at last, a long Reign of Terror
may overwhelm us ere success is reached.

And thus it is a matter of surpassing interest to determine whether the present stupendous
insurrectionary convulsion has brought about a state of things under which, in strict accordance
with the Constitution as it is, we may emancipate all negroes throughout the Union who are
now held in involuntary servitude. This question I propose to discuss.

The claims to service or labor here referred to may be for years or for life: both are included
in the above provision. In point of fact, there were existing, at the time that provision was
adopted, (as there still exist,) both classes: the first class, for a term of years, then consisting,
in part, of claims against foreign adults who had bound themselves to service for a limited
time to repay the expenses of their emigration,--but chiefly, as now, of claims to the service
or labor of what were called apprentices, usually white minors; the second, for life, were
claims to the service or labor of men, women, and children of all ages, exclusively of African
descent, who were called slaves.

The first class of claims were found chiefly in Northern States; the second chiefly in Southern.
There was a great disparity between the numbers of the two classes. While the claims to service
or labor for years numbered but a few thousands, there were then held to service or labor for
life upwards of six hundred thousand persons: and the number has since increased to about four
millions.

The constitutional provision is, that persons from whom under State laws service or labor is
due shall not be exonerated from the performance of the same by escaping to another State.
The apprentice, or the slave, shall, in that case, on demand of the proper claimant, be delivered
up.

Such a provision clearly involves the recognition of certain rights of property; but of what kind?

Is the ownership of one human being by another here involved? Is the apprentice, or the slave,
recognized in this clause as an article of merchandise?

State laws regulating apprenticeship and slavery may give to the master of
the apprentice, or of the slave, the custody of the person and the right
of corporal punishment, in order the better to insure the performance of
the labor due. These laws may declare that an apprentice, or a slave, who
strikes his master, shall suffer death. They may provide that the
testimony of an apprentice, or of a slave, shall not be received in any
court of justice as evidence against his master. They may make the claims
to service or labor, whether for years or for life, transferable by
ordinary sale. They may declare such claims to be, under certain
circumstances, of the nature of real estate. They may enact that these
claims shall be hereditary, both as regards the claimant and the person
held to service, so that heirs shall inherit them,--and also so that the
children of apprentices, or of slaves, shall, in virtue of their birth, be
apprentices or slaves. But State laws or State constitutions, whatever
their provisions, cannot modify the Constitution of the United States. 4
    Wheaton, Rep., p. 316.]

Therefore State laws or constitutions can neither determine the interpretation of the Federal
Constitution nor explain its intent. It is to be interpreted by the words, fairly and candidly
construed, of its framers.

In the provision under consideration the phraseology is remarkable. The word slave, though
then in common use, to designate a negro held to service or labor for life, is not employed.
It is impossible to believe that this peculiarity was accidental, or to overlook the inevitable
inference from it. This provision does not recognize slavery except as it recognizes apprenticeship.
African slavery, according to the expressly selected words, and therefore according to the
manifest intent, of the framers of the Constitution, is here recognized as a claim to the service
or labor of a negro: nothing more, nothing else.

It avails nothing to allege, even if it were true, that in 1787, when these words were written,
a negro was commonly considered property. Chief-Justice Taney, delivering the decision of the
Supreme Court in the Dred Scott case, asserts that in the thirteen colonies which formed the
Constitution "a negro of the African race was regarded as an article of property." This may
or it may not have been true of a majority in those days. True or not, it refers only to the
opinions of individual colonists; and these cannot be received as a basis of construction for
the words, nor can they rebut the plain intent, of a constitutional provision. It is not what
individual colonists believed, but what the framers of the Constitution incorporated in that
instrument, that we have to deal with.

They avoided the use of the word slave. They incorporated the words "person held to service
or labor." They admitted the claim to service or labor: none other: a claim (regarded in its
constitutional aspect) in the nature of what the law calls a chose in action,--or, in other
words, a thing to which, though it cannot be strictly said to be in actual possession, one
has a right.

In common parlance we employ words, in connection with Slavery, which imply much more than
such a claim. We say slave-holder and slave-owner; we speak of the institution of Slavery:
but we do not say apprentice-holder or apprentice-owner; nor do we speak of the institution
of Apprenticeship. The reason, whether valid or invalid, for such variance of phraseology in
speaking of the two classes of claims, is not to be found in any admission, express or implied,
in the provision of the Constitution now under consideration. In it the framers of that instrument
employed one and the same phrase to designate the master of the apprentice and the master of
the slave. Both are termed "the party to whom service or labor may be due."

Is there any other clause in the Constitution in which a distinction is made between the apprentice
and the slave? There is one, and only one. In determining the number of inhabitants in each
State as a basis of representation and taxation, it is provided that the whole number of apprentices
shall be included, while three-fifths only of the slaves are to be taken into account. But
the wording of this clause is especially noteworthy.

To avoid mistakes, it was deemed necessary to include apprentices by express specification.
Why this? Every one would have felt it to be absurd, if the words had been, "the whole number
of free persons, including farm-laborers." But why absurd? Because persons engaged in free
labor are, beyond question, free persons. Not so those "bound to service." While so bound,
apprentices may be considered not free; when the "term of years," and with it the bondage to
service, expires, they become free, or, as the common phrase is, "their own masters." It was
necessary and proper, therefore, to specify whether, in the enumeration of inhabitants, they
were to be estimated as free persons or as persons not free.

But would there be any fairness in construing this clause into an admission, by inference or
otherwise, that an apprentice, while "bound to service," is a slave? Clearly not. He is a person
not free for the time, because another has a legal claim to his service or labor. The Constitution
admits this: nothing more.

And so of slaves. "Other persons" they are called, in contradistinction to "free persons";
therefore persons not free: and properly so called, seeing that, like the apprentice before
his term expires, they are "bound to service," and that, unlike him, they remain thus bound
for life.

But unless we admit that the apprentice, bound to service for a season, is a slave during that
season, we cannot justly allege, that, by this provision of the Constitution, the negro, held
to service or labor for life, is recognized as a slave.

A mere technical view of a great political question is usually a contracted one, of little
practical value, and unbecoming a statesman. "The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life."
Yet we must not mistake for technicality a careful interpretation, distinctly warranted by
the terms employed, of a public instrument. Every public instrument, by which the governed
delegate powers to those who govern, should be strictly construed.

I am not arguing, that the men who framed the Constitution did not regard negroes held to service
or labor as slaves. I am not arguing that temporary claims, to the number (let us suppose)
of forty or fifty thousand, may, for a moment, compare in importance with life-long claims,
to the number of four millions; or that it is safe or proper to legislate in regard to the
latter, involving as they do vast industrial interests, with as light consideration as might
suffice in enacting regulations for the former. I am not arguing that a political element,
which has gradually assumed proportions so gigantic as has American Slavery, can, with any
safety or propriety, be dealt with, except after the gravest deliberation and the most sedulous
examination, in advance, of every step we propose to take. I allege nothing of all this.

What I assert is, that neither the number of slaves nor the magnitude of the interests involved
can properly influence the judgment in determining the just construction of a clause in the
Constitution, or properly set aside a fair deduction from the wording of that clause as to
its true spirit and intent. What I assert is, that the framers of the Constitution, in studiously
avoiding the employment of the word slave, undeniably abstained from admitting into that instrument
anything which the use of that word might have implied. Therefore the Constitution does not
recognize the ownership of one human being by another. In it we seek in vain any foundation
for the doctrine declared by Chief-Justice Taney, that persons held to service or labor for
life are articles of property or merchandise.

In one restricted sense, and only in one, is slavery recognized by the Constitution of the
United States: as a system under which one man may have a legal claim to the involuntary labor
of another.

Therefore the question, whether Congress has the constitutional right to emancipate slaves,
resolves itself into this:--Can Congress constitutionally take private property for public
use and destroy it, making just compensation therefor? And is there anything in the nature
of the claim which a master has to the service or labor of an apprentice, or of a slave, which
legally exempts that species of property from the general rule, if important considerations
of public utility demand that such claims should be appropriated and cancelled by the Government?

This is the sole issue. Let us not complicate it by mixing it up with others. When we are discussing
the expediency of emancipation and of measures proposed to effect it, it is proper to take
into account not only State constitutions and State legislation, but also the popular conception
of slavery under the loose phraseology of the day, and public sentiment, South as well as North,
in connection with it. But when we are examining the purely legal question, whether, under
the Constitution as it is and under the state of public affairs now existing, Congress has
the power to enact emancipation, we must dismiss popular fallacies and prejudices, and confine
ourselves to one task: namely, to decide, without reference to subordinate constitutions or
legislative action, what the supreme law of the land--the Constitution of the United States--permits
or forbids in the premises.

It will be admitted that Congress has the right (Amendments to Constitution, Article 5) to
take private property, with just compensation made, for public use. And it will not be argued
that a claim of one inhabitant of the United States to the service of another, whether for
a term of years or for life, is property which has been constitutionally exempted from such
appropriation. It is evident, that, if a claim to the service of a slave cannot constitutionally
be so taken and cancelled, neither can the claim to the service of an apprentice.

On the other hand, it is to be conceded, as a feature of the utmost importance in this case,
that, when property of any kind to a vast amount is thus appropriated, the considerations which
influence its appropriation should correspond in magnitude to the extent of the interests at
stake. When the taking and cancelling of certain claims practically involves the social condition
of four millions of the inhabitants of the United States and the industrial and financial interests
of six millions more, it is desirable that the considerations to justify so radical and far-reaching
a change should be in the nature of imperative official duty rather than of speculative opinion
or philosophical choice.

Let us proceed a step farther, and inquire if there be circumstances, and if so, what circumstances,
under which it becomes the right and the duty of Congress to take and cancel the claims in
question.

The controlling circumstances which bear upon this case may be thus briefly stated.

1. The Constitution (section 8) confers on Congress certain essential powers: as, to collect
taxes, without which no government can be supported.

2. The Constitution (same section) authorizes Congress to "make all laws that shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution" these powers.

3. If Congress fail to carry into execution these powers, the Government is set at nought,
and anarchy ensues.

4. An insurrection, extending over eleven of the States comprising the Union, now prevails.

5. Because of that insurrection, the essential powers granted to Congress by the Constitution
cannot be carried into execution in these eleven States.

6. Because of the resistance offered by these insurrectionary States to constitutional powers,
it becomes the duty of Congress to pass all laws that are necessary and proper to enforce these
powers.

All this will be conceded; but a question remains. Who is to judge what laws are necessary
and proper to carry into execution the powers, expressly granted by the Constitution, which
are thus obstructed and defeated?

This question has been determined by the highest legal tribunal of the United States, speaking
by the mouth of one who will be acknowledged to have been her most distinguished presiding officer.

In the well-known case of McCulloch against the State of Maryland,[8] Chief-Justice Marshall
delivered the decision of the Supreme Court; and by that decision the following principles
were established:--

    [Footnote 8: February term, 1819. 4 "Wheaton's Rep., 316.
    Unwilling here to multiply words, I pray reference to the decision
    itself.]

1. The construction of the words "necessary and proper" in the above connection. The Chief-Justice
says,--

    "The term 'necessary' does not import an absolute physical
    necessity, so strong that one thing to which another may be termed
    necessary cannot exist without that other."

2.

3. But still more explicitly is the question answered, who is to be the judge of the appropriateness
and necessity of the means to be employed, thus:--

    "The Government which has a right to do an act, and has imposed
    upon it the duty of performing that act, must, according to the
    dictates of reason, be allowed to select the means."

Thus, then, the matter stands. The powers to lay and collect taxes, to exercise authority over
forts and arsenals of the United States, to suppress insurrection, and various others equally
essential, are expressly given by the Constitution to Congress. It is the right and duty of
Congress to carry these powers into effect. In case of obstruction or defeat of existing laws
framed to that intent, it is the right and duty of Congress to select such means and pass such
additional laws as may be necessary and proper to overcome such obstruction and enforce obedience
to such laws. In the selection of the means to effect this constitutional object, Congress
is the sole judge of their propriety or necessity. These means must not be prohibited by the
Constitution; but whether they are the most prudent or the most effectual means, or in what
degree they are necessary, are matters over which the Supreme Court has no jurisdiction. As
Chief-Justice Marshall has elsewhere in this decision expressed it, for the Supreme Court to
undertake to inquire into the degree of their necessity "would be to pass the line which circumscribes
the judicial department and to tread on legislative ground."

There must, of course, be congruity or relevancy between the power to be enforced and the means
proposed to enforce it. While Congress is to judge the degree of necessity or propriety of
these means, they must not be such as to be devoid of obvious connection with the object to
be attained.

In this case, the object to be attained is the enforcement, in the insurrectionary States,
of laws without which no government can exist, and the suppression in these States of an insurrection
of which the object is the dismemberment of the Union.

But these laws are resisted, and this insurrection prevails, in those States, and in those
States only, in which the life-long claims to the service or labor of persons of African descent
are held under State laws. In States where slaves are comparatively few, as in Delaware, Maryland,
Missouri, disaffection only prevails; while in States where the number of slaves approaches
or exceeds that of whites, as in South Carolina, Alabama, Georgia, insurrection against lawful
authority is flagrant and outspoken: the insurrectionary acts of these States being avowedly
based on the allegation that Slavery is not safe under the present constitutionally elected
President, and that its permanent preservation can be insured by the disruption of the national
unity alone.[9]

    [Footnote 9: The Secession Ordinance passed the Convention of
    South Carolina December 20, 1860. The next day, December 21, the
    Convention adopted the "Declaration of Causes" which led to that
    Secession. This document declares, as to the non-slaveholding
    States, that they have "denounced as sinful the institution of
    Slavery"; that they have "united in the election of a man to the
    high office of President of the United States whose opinions and
    purposes are hostile to Slavery," and who declares that "the
    public mind must rest in the belief that Slavery is in the course
    of ultimate extinction."

    These, first put forth by South Carolina, afterwards indorsed by
    each seceding State, are the causes officially declared to have
    produced, and which are held to justify, the present
    insurrection.]

All this is matter of history. And there would be as much propriety in denying the connection
between the sun and the light of day, as that between Slavery and the Rebellion.

There is a question upon which men differ: namely, whether emancipation is the most prudent
or the most effectual means to enforce violated law and suppress the insurrectionary movement.

It is my opinion that a majority of the people of the loyal States believe, at this moment,
that emancipation is the necessary and proper means to effect the above objects. But whether
this opinion be well founded or not is immaterial to the present question. According to Chief-Justice
Marshall's decision, when it is the right and duty of the Government to perform an act, (as
here to enforce law and suppress insurrection,) it "must, according to the dictates of reason,
be allowed to select the means." If Congress believes, that, in order to enforce law and suppress
insurrection, it is necessary and proper to take and cancel all claims to life-long service
or labor held in the Slave States, and if claims to service or labor, whether for years or
for life, held by one inhabitant of the United States against another, be a species of property
not specially exempted by the Constitution from seizure for public use, then an Act of Emancipation
is strictly constitutional.

Congress is to be allowed to select the means; Congress is to be the judge of the necessity
and propriety of these means: Congress, not the Supreme Court; not even the People in their
primary meetings; but the People constitutionally represented in their National Legislature;
the People, speaking by the voice of those whom their votes have elected to that Legislature,
there to act for them.

If Congress believes that Emancipation is no longer a question of sectional interference, but
of national preservation, it has the right to judge, and the constitutional right to act upon
that judgment. And if Congress can properly allege, as motive for taking and cancelling a multitude
of life-long claims to service, the preservation of the national existence, can a consideration
of greater magnitude be imagined for any legislative act?

In proceeding, however, to consummate such a measure, it is evidently most fitting and proper,
that, in the preamble to an Act of Emancipation, there should be set forth, lucidly and succinctly,
the causes and considerations which impelled to so solemn and momentous an act.

As to the just compensation provided by the Constitution to be paid, when private property
is taken for public use, it is here to be remarked,--

1. If, when a minor is drafted, a father or an apprentice-master has no claim against the Government
for service lost, it may be argued with some plausibility, that, under similar circumstances
of public exigency, a slave-owner has no claim when his slave is freed. But the argument fairly
applies only in cases in which a slave is drafted for military service, and returned to slavery
when that service terminates. In case of wholesale taking and cancelling of life-long claims
to service, a fair construction of the Constitution may be held to require, as a general rule,
that just compensation should be made to the claimants.

2. But to Congress, by the Constitution, is expressly given the power to declare the punishment
of treason, without any limitation as to the confiscation of personal property, including,
of course, claims in the nature of choses in action. Congress may, therefore, take and cancel
claims to service owned by Rebel slave-owners without any compensation whatever. Under the
feudal law, a serf, owing service to a noble guilty of treason, became, because of his master's
guilt, released from such service.

3. If, because of the present insurrection, set on foot by claimants of service or labor, such
claims, from precariousness of tenure or otherwise, have diminished in market-value, that diminution
may be properly taken into account in estimating just compensation.

These various considerations converge to this,--that a Preamble and Act of Emancipation, somewhat
in the terms following, may be constitutionally enacted.

    A Bill to emancipate Persons of African Descent held to Service
    or Labor in certain of the United States.

    Whereas there is now flagrant, in certain of the United States, an
    insurrection of proportions so gigantic that there has been
    required, to hold it in check, an increase of the army and navy of
    the United States to an extent seldom paralleled in the history of
    the world;

    And whereas, because of the said insurrection, the execution of
    the laws for collecting taxes, and of various other laws of the
    United States, heretofore enacted by the Congress in the just
    exercise of their constitutional powers, has been, for more than
    two years past, and still is, obstructed and defeated throughout
    the insurrectionary States;

    And whereas it is the right and duty of the Congress to make all
    laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into
    execution the said constitutional powers;

    And whereas the said insurrectionary portions of the Union consist
    exclusively of States wherein persons of African descent are held
    in large numbers to involuntary service or labor,--the white
    inhabitants thereof basing their insurrectionary acts upon the
    assumption that the security and perpetuation of such involuntary
    servitude require the disruption of the national unity, and the
    establishment, on a portion of the domain of the United States, of
    a separate and independent government;

    And whereas a large portion of the said persons of African
    descent, so held in servitude, contribute greatly, so long as such
    involuntary services are thus exacted from them, to the aid and
    comfort of the said insurrectionists, laboring for their behoof on
    their fortifications, and for the supply of their commissariat,
    and otherwise giving strength and support to various
    insurrectionary acts;

    And whereas, in an emergency so urgent as that which is now patent
    to the world, it is the duty of the Congress to place at the
    disposal of the Executive branch of the Government, for the common
    defence, the utmost power, civil and military, of the country, and
    to employ every means not forbidden by the usages of civilized
    warfare, and not in violation of the Constitution, that is placed
    within their reach, in order to repress and to bring to a speedy
    termination the present protracted and desolating insurrection;

    And whereas it appears from the above recitals, that the
    existence, throughout certain of the United States, of a
    labor-system which recognizes the claims of one race of men to the
    involuntary services of another race (always a moral wrong) has
    now shown itself to be destructive of the supremacy of the laws,
    and a constant menace to the Government, and that the continuance
    of such labor-system imminently jeopardizes the integrity of the
    Union, and has become incompatible with the domestic tranquillity
    of the country;

    And whereas it has thus become evident that claims to the
    involuntary service or labor of persons of African descent ought
    not to be possessed by any inhabitant of the United States, but
    should, in the just exercise of the power which inheres in every
    independent government to protect itself from destruction by
    seizing and destroying any private property of its citizens or
    subjects which imperils its own existence, be taken, as for public
    use, from their present possessors, and abrogated and
    annulled,--just compensation being made to so many of the said
    possessors of such claims as may demand it, and as may by their
    loyalty be entitled thereto, for the claims so abrogated and
    annulled; therefore,

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in
    Congress assembled, that from and after the ---- day of ---- next
    all claims to the services or labor of persons of African descent,
    who shall then be held to involuntary service or labor in any of
    the States of the Union under the laws thereof, be and the same
    are hereby taken by the Government of the United States. And the
    said claims are hereby abrogated and annulled. And all persons of
    African descent within the United States, who shall, on the
    said ---- day of ---- next, be held to involuntary service or
    labor, except for crime of which the party shall have been legally
    convicted, shall be released and emancipated from such claims in
    as full and complete a manner as if the same had never existed;
    the said release and emancipation to take effect from and after
    the said ---- day of ----, thenceforth and forevermore.

    And be it further enacted, that the faith of the United States be
    and the same is hereby pledged for the payment of just
    compensation to all persons who shall, on the said ---- day
    of ----, hold such claims to service or labor; provided, that such
    persons shall make application for such compensation in the form
    and manner hereinafter prescribed, and provided further, that said
    persons shall have been, throughout the present insurrection, and
    shall continue to the close of the same, true and loyal to the
    Government of the United States, and shall not, directly or
    indirectly, have incited to insurrectionary acts, or given aid or
    comfort to any persons engaged in the insurrection aforesaid.

    [Here should follow provisions in regard to the manner of
    application, the mode and rate of compensation, etc.]

It will probably be found that the number of slaves for the remuneration of whose lost services
applications will be made by loyal claimants, under such an act, will scarcely reach the number
emancipated in 1834 by Great Britain, which was about seven hundred and seventy thousand; and
that the sum paid by England to colonial slave-owners, namely about a hundred millions of dollars,
(the probable cost of eight weeks war,) will suffice as just compensation for all the services
due to loyal claimants thus taken and cancelled.[10]

    [Footnote 10: The exact number of slaves emancipated in the British
    colonies was 770,390; and the total amount of indemnity was
    £19,950,066 sterling.]

An act couched in the terms here proposed could not be declared unconstitutional by the Supreme
Court, without a shameless encroachment on legislative ground, nor without a reckless reversal
of principles as well established, and of as high authority, as any which form the basis of
constitutional law.

Those who demur to the passage of an act which meets the great difficulty before us broadly,
effectually, honestly, and in accordance with the dictates of Christianity and civilization,
would do well to consider whether, in the progress of this insurrectionary upheaval, we have
not reached a point at which there is no prudent alternative left. By the President's Proclamation
some three millions of slaves have been already declared free. Sundry laws of Congress have
emancipated several hundred thousands more. There remain legally enslaved probably less than
three quarters of a million,--chiefly scattered along a narrow border-strip that is coterminous,
North and South, with Freedom or Emancipation,--partly dotted in isolated parishes or counties,
surrounded by enfranchised slaves. Can we maintain in perpetuity so anomalous a condition of
things? Clearly not. At every step embarrassments innumerable obstruct our progress. No industry,
no human sagacity, would suffice to determine the ten thousand conflicting questions that must
arise out of such a chaos. Must the history of each negro be followed back, so as to determine
his status, whether slave or free? If negroes emancipated in insurrectionary States are sold
as slaves into Border States, or into excepted parishes or counties, can we expect to trace
the transaction? If slaves owned in Border States, or in excepted parishes or counties, are
sold to loyal men in insurrectionary States, are they still slaves? or do they become free?
Are we to admit, or to deny, the constitutionality of Border-State laws, which arrest, and
imprison as vagrants, and sell into slavery to pay expenses of arrest and imprisonment, free
negro emigrants from insurrectionary States?[11] But why multiply instances? The longer this
twilight of groping transition lasts, it will be only confusion the worse confounded.

    [Footnote 11: If, hereafter, Attorney-General Bates's decision,
    that a free negro is a citizen, be sustained by the Supreme Court,
    then, should the question come up before it, the State laws above
    referred to will be declared unconstitutional. But meanwhile they
    have not been so declared, and are in force.

    The negro-excluding laws of Indiana and Illinois are in the same
    category.]

We cannot stand still. Shall we recede? We break faith solemnly plighted; we submit, before
the world, to base humiliation; we bow down to a system which the voice of all Christendom
condemns; we abandon the struggle for nationality, and consent, for ages, perhaps, to a dismembered
country. Shall we advance? There is but one path--the plain, truth-lighted, onward path--to
victory and to peace.

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES. By HENRY JAMES. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.

Any one tolerably conversant with either the religion or the philosophy of the last twenty-five
years, as displayed in the current literature, must have been convinced that both had left
their ancient moorings, never again to find them, and were floating about perilously in quest
of a new anchorage. We read the "Essays and Reviews" and "The Pentateuch and the Book of Joshua
critically Examined," and the replications long-drawn-out from High Church and Low, with a
decided impression that the combatants are skirmishing on an immense ice-field, which is drifting
them all together into other and unknown seas. What cares any man profoundly conscious of the
wants both of the intellect and the heart whether Moses wrote the Pentateuch or not, and if
so, whether he was as accomplished a geologist as Professors Buckland and Lyell? Admit that
the whole letter of Scripture comes from God, even to the vowel-points, by what laws and methods
shall we expound it so as to put an end to the internecine war between Faith and Reason, between
Religion and Philosophy?

We say without reserve, that this book of Mr. James's, if we except a small and unpretending
treatise by the same author, published a few years since, on the "Nature of Evil," is the first
we have met with, in the range of modern religious controversy, which goes to the heart and
marrow of the subject.

To see into what straits we had been brought, call to mind the essentials of the Kantian and
Scotch philosophies, which have dominated the German and English mind, and partially the French
mind, for the last quarter of a century. Kant resolves all our knowledge into the science of
phenomena. Our faculties give us nothing but the phenomena of consciousness; and the phenomena
of consciousness are not noumenal existence, or existence in se. Nor have we any right to reason
from phenomena to noumena, or to say that the former authenticate the latter. We know only
the Ego. The Non-Ego lies on the other side of a yawning chasm,--if, indeed, there is anything
on the other side, which is doubtful. The Ego becomes the centre of the Universe, and God,
who comes under the Non-Ego, lies somewhere on the circumference, and is only yielded to us
as the product of our moral instinct. Sir William Hamilton, following Reid, asserts a natural
Realism, or noumenal existence within the phenomenal; but he utterly denies that either of
these authenticates the Infinite and Absolute. He and his disciple, Dr. Mansel, labor immensely
to prove that there can be no such thing as a philosophy of the Infinite, and that to attempt
such a philosophy leads us into inextricable confusion and self-contradiction.

In thus degrading Philosophy, unchurching her ignominiously, as fit only to deal with the Finite,--in
other words, making her the lackey of mere Science,--they fancy they are doing famous service
to Revelation. Very well,--we are ready to say,--having scourged Philosophy out of the temple,
will you please, Gentlemen, to conduct us yourselves towards its hallowed shrine? If Philosophy
cannot yield us a knowledge of the Infinite, we take it that Revelation, as you apprehend it,
can. We, poor prodigals, have been feeding long enough upon husks that the swine do eat, and
crave a little nourishing food.--The answer we get is, that Revelation does not propose to
give us any such fare. Not any more than Philosophy does Revelation disclose to us the Infinite.
It only gives us finite conceptions and formulas about the Infinite. The gulf between us and
God yawns wide as ever, and is eternal. We must worship still an unknown God, as the heathen
did. But we have this consolation,--that we have creed-articles which we can get by heart,
though ignorant of what they mean, and under what these philosophers call a "regulative" religion
repeat our paternosters to the end of time.

"These be thy gods, O Philosophy!" exclaims Dr. Mansel to the German Pantheists, pointing to
the bloodless spectres which they have evoked in place of Christianity. "These be thy gods,
O Scotch Metaphysics!" the Pantheists might reply, when called upon to worship the wooden images
in which avowedly no pulse of the Infinite and Absolute ever beats or ever can beat.

Mr. James's whole argument, as he deals with the German and Scotch philosophies, is profound
and masterly. He uses two sets of weapons, both of them with admirable skill. One set is awfully
destructive. He clears off the rubbish of the pseudo-metaphysics with a logic so remorseless
that we are tempted sometimes to cry for mercy. But, on the whole, Mr. James is right here.
If men pretending to add to the stock of human knowledge treacherously knock away its foundations,
and bring down the whole structure into a heap of rubbish, leaving us, if not killed outright,
unhoused in a limbo of Atheism,--or if men pretending to hold the keys of knowledge will not
go in themselves, and shut the doors in our faces when we seek to enter, no matter how sharply
their treachery and charlatanry are exposed, however famous are the names they bear.

But Mr. James is quite as much constructive as destructive. He shows not only that there must
be a philosophy of the Infinite, but that herein is its high office and glory. Sense deals
only with facts,--science deals with relations, or groups phenomena; and when these usurp the
place of philosophy, they turn things exactly upside down, or mistake the centre for the circumference.
This is the glaring fault both of the German and the Scotch metaphysicians, that they swamp
philosophy in mere science; and hence they grovel in the Finite, and muddle everything they
touch even there. Revelation, on the other hand, does unfold to us a true philosophy of the
Infinite. It shows how the Infinite is contained in the Finite, the Absolute in the Relative,
not spatially or by continuation, but by exact correspondency, as the soul is contained in
the body. Mr. James demonstrates the supreme absurdity of the notion of noumenal existence,
or of any created existence which has life in se. God alone has life in Himself. All things
else are only forms and receptacles of life, sheerly phenomenal, except so far forth as He
is their substance. The notion of Creation as something made out of nothing, having life afterwards
in se, and so holding an external relation to Deity, falsifies all the theologies, and degrades
them into mere natural religions." It is the mother-fallacy," says Mr. James, "which breeds
all these petty fallacies in the popular understanding." Those familiar with Dr. Mansel's argument
will see that he has not the remotest conception of Creation, except as an exploit of God in
time and space, or of the Infinite, except as an unbounded aggregation of finites. That God
reposed alone through all the past eternities, but roused some day and sent forth a shout,
or six successive shouts, and spoke things out of nothing into "noumenal" existence, were absurd
enough, to use Mr. James's nervous English, "to nourish a standing army of Tom Paines into
annual fatness." The utter childishness of the theological quarrels over the first chapter
of Genesis is obvious enough, so long as both parties swamp the spirit in the letter, or deny
that the Finite can reveal the Infinite.

Following out his favorite postulate, that God alone has life in Himself, and all things else
are only phenomena of life, Mr. James evolves the doctrine of Creation, of Man and Nature,
and of Redemption, steering clear alike of the shoals of Atheism and the devouring jaws of
Pantheism. In his constructive argument he draws upon the vast wealth of Swedenborg, and herein,
as we conceive, he has done a rare service to our literature. Both the popular and ecclesiastical
conception of Swedenborg would be ludicrously, if they were not shamefully inadequate. He has
been known but little, except as a ghost-seer, or as a Samson grinding painfully in sectarian
mills. Mr. James has done something like justice to his broad humanity, and his incomparably
profound and exhaustive philosophy. It was Kant who first called him a ghost-seer; but while
Kant was doing his best to turn all realities into the ghastliest of spectres, and remove all
the underpinning of faith, till the heavens themselves should tumble through, Swedenborg was
laying the foundation of all knowledge on the solid floors of Nature, subordinating sense to
science, science to philosophy, philosophy to revelation, each serving as the impregnable support
of its superior, and all filled and quickened with the life of God, and lighted up with those
divine illuminations in whose illustrious morning the first and faintest cock-crowing would
scare the ghosts of the Kantian philosophy out of the universe.

We have regarded Mr. James for some time as among the first of American essayists. There are
few writers whose thought is more worthy to be spoken, or whose grand and nervous English displays
it in finer shades and nobler proportions. The present volume is his crowning work, and he
has coined his life-blood into it. But as honest critics we have some grounds of quarrel with
him. A man has no right to be obscure who can make words so flexible and luminous as he can.
In the present volume, his readers who here make his first acquaintance will inevitably misconstrue
him, simply because he alters the fundamental nomenclature of religion and chiefly Ritualism,
and we find only by the most wide-awake searching that he means anything else. Morality means
the Selfhood, not social justice, not that which binds the individual in his relations to society
and to humanity. Very true, religion has operated mainly with precatory rites for the purpose
of deflecting God's wrath, or, as Mr. James would say, with some sneaking design upon His bounty.
And morality has been the starched buckram in which men walk and strut for distinguished consideration.
But religion in its true and native meaning is that which binds man to God in loving unison,
and morality covers all the relations which bind a man to his neighbor, not assumed as decorations
of the selfhood, but with all divine charities flowing through them. So Swedenborg uses the
word morality. See his noble chapter on Charity in the "True Christian Religion." And for ourselves,
we have not the least idea of abandoning these honored words either to superstitious formalists
or handsome scoundrels.

We have no such respect for the Devil as Mr. James has expressed for him, even when transformed
into the gentleman and utilized for beneficent purposes. Nor do we see how the gap in Mr. James's
argument is to be closed up, while he avows his belief in the eternity of the hells, and yet
holds that we are ab intra the unqualified creations of God. Again, we should take exception
to his favorite position, or, rather, the batteries he opens from it, that saints and scoundrels
are not different in the sight of God, allowing the sense which alone, of course, he intends,
different in se.

But the merits of the book, as one of the noblest and profoundest contributions to philosophy
which have been produced, are undeniable. Mr. James possesses two qualities in very rare combination,
the power of subtile metaphysical analysis and the power of picturesque representation, so
that, while he tasks the thinking faculty of his readers to the utmost, he chains their attention
by the fascination of his rhetoric. His sturdy honesty is everywhere apparent, and his success
the most complete which we have yet witnessed in rescuing Philosophy from her degrading bondage
to Sense, and restoring her to the divine service of Revelation. By SIR CHARLES LYELL, F.R.S.,
Author of "The Principles of Geology," "Elements of Geology," etc., etc. Illustrated by Wood-Cuts.
8vo. Philadelphia: George W. Childs.

Human bones from time to time have been discovered associated with those of extinct hyenas
and cavern-bears, and specimens of them were in the Museum of the Garden of Plants in Paris
as long ago as 1829; but there was then a doubt among geologists as to the human bones being
coeval with the bones with which they were associated, it being supposed that they might have
been washed into crevices of the rocks in which the bone-breccias are found, and there, being
incrusted with carbonate of lime, had the false appearance of being as ancient as the fossil
bones of extinct animals.

The indefatigable labors of Prestwich, in the basin of the Somme and among the gravel-beds
of Picardy, first called the attention of geologists to the fact that works of men's hands
were also found in undisturbed alluvial deposits of high antiquity, and he had the honor of
bringing to light proofs of the existence of man in Europe in more remote times than had been
previously admitted, and of demonstrating the stone age of France. Goss, Hébert, and Lartet
followed in the same track, and added many valuable facts, and a host of other laborers in
the same field have since appeared. So extensive have been the discoveries of the works of
man buried with the bones of the Elephas primigenius and of cavern-bears and extinct hyenas,
that we are forced to recognize the fact of the coexistence of man with those ancient animals,
for the occurrence of deposits containing the bones of the two cannot any longer be regarded
as doubtful; and certainly stone tools fashioned by man have been found so widely spread in
the ancient alluviums and deposits of the post-Pliocene age, as to remove all doubt of the
fact, and to destroy the objection that they might be local accidents of an equivocal character.

More recently,--namely, within four or five years,--the discovery of the habitations of lost
races of men on the borders of the Swiss lakes, and of remains of various articles which those
people once used,--tools, weapons, ornaments, bones of animals they fed upon, seeds of plants
they cultivated and consumed,--has given a new impetus to these researches into the antiquity
of the human race. Borings into the alluvial deposits of the Nile have proved the existence
of man in that valley more than thirty thousand years ago, as estimated by the known rate of
deposit of the alluvium of the Nile. Considerations as to the origin and spread of languages
also seem to require a much greater antiquity for the human race than has been popularly allowed;
and geologists have always claimed myriads of years as required for the sedimentary formations
of the globe. Sir Charles Lyell, ever an active collector of geological facts, and an excellent
writer on the science of Geology, has engaged with his usual zeal in verifying the researches
of the French, Swiss, and German geologists, and has written a very readable book on these
new revelations concerning the ancient history of the human race. It is the best English presentation
of the subject, and is written in a style that every one can read and understand.

We regret, however, that he has abandoned his former views as to the persistency of species,
and has adopted Darwin's theory of transmutation and development by variation and natural relation,
and must say, after carefully reading his book, that he has not given any geological proofs
of the correctness of Darwin's opinions, but, like that distinguished writer, he is obliged
to take refuge behind the deficiency of the geological record, and to suppose facts and proofs
may hereafter be discovered, when few are now known to favor the new hypothesis. We can see
no more reason why a giraffe should have had a long neck, because he wished to crop the leaves
of tall trees, than that mankind should have become winged, because in all times both children
and men have wished to fly. Nor do we think Mr. Wallace's opinion any better founded, that,
owing to a dearth of leaves on the lower branches of trees, all the short-necked giraffes died
out, and left the long-necked ones to continue the species. This theory reminds us of the "astronomical
expirimint" proposed by Father Tom to his "Howliness" the Pope, of the goose and the turkey-cock
picking the stars from the sky. As to the ape-like skull of Engis Cave, and the human skeleton
found near Dusseldorf in a cavern, we think it would not be difficult to find full as bad skulls
on living shoulders, and equally bad forms in skeletons now walking about. To us they are no
evidence that the first man was a gorilla or a chimpanzee, nor does his or Darwin's argument
convince us that all vertebrates were once fishes. This question, however, is still mooted;
and we have no objections that people should amuse themselves in thus tracing back their ancestry.

To this class of inquirers Sir Charles Lyell's book will furnish food for reflection; and they
will see that even so enthusiastic a writer as this new convert to the Darwinian doctrine can
furnish but very slender support to it from his geologic lore.

There is much interesting matter in the book besides the generalizations we object to, and
enough to render it welcome to the library of any one interested in the study of Geology and
of the antiquity of the animal creation.

Spurgeon's Sermons. Preached and revised by the Rev. C.H. SPURGEON. Seventh Series. New York:
Sheldon and Co.

Spurgeon is emphatically of the earth, earthy. This we say, not as anything against him intellectually
or spiritually, but simply as indicating the material ballast, which in this man is grosser
and heavier than in most men, pulling forever against his sails, and absolutely forbidding
that freer movement of the imagination which usually belongs to minds of a power equal in degree
to his. Not that this freedom flows necessarily out of a great degree of mental power, or by
any organic law is associated with what we term genius. Every one would admit that Luther was
a man of genius; yet Luther was in this respect no better off than Spurgeon,--he was as totally
destitute of wings, of the possibility of aërial flight. His power we consider to be far higher
than that of Spurgeon; but this we argue from the fact, that, although equally with Spurgeon
he was excluded from the sovereignty of the air, although he was equally denied both the faculty
to create and the capacity to receive subtile speculation, he had what Spurgeon has not, an
almighty, irresistible impetus in his movements,--movements which, though centripetal, forever
seeking the earth, and forever trailing their mountain-weight of glory along the line of and
through the midst of flesh-and-blood realities, yet never found any impediment in all their
course, but swept the ground like a whirlwind. This distinction between Spurgeon and Luther
in the matter of strength is an important one; and it is, moreover, a distinction which may
easily be derived--even if no other source lay open to us--from a palpable difference between
their faces. But the resemblance between these two men as to tendencies and modes of operation
is still more important, and especially as helping us to draw the line between two distinct
orders of human genius. Upon this resemblance we desire to dwell at some length.

Luther and Spurgeon are both grossly realistic. They are both groundlings. In their art, they
build after the simple, but grand style of the Cyclops; they have no upward reach; with no
delicate steppings do they haunt the clouds; because they will not soar, they draw the sky
down low about them, and, wrapping themselves about with its thunders and its sunlights, play
with these mysteries as with magnificent toys. In them there is no subtilizing of human affections,
of human fears, or of human faith. All these maintain their alliance magnetically, by channels
seen or unseen, but forever felt, with the earth, and, Antæus-like, from the earth they derive
all their peculiar strength as sentiments of the human heart.

How widely different are these men from Bacon, Kant, or Fichte,--or, to compare them more directly
with the artists of literature, by what chasms of space are they removed from Milton, Shakspeare,
and even from Homer, who, although he was a realist, yet had eagles' wings, and was at home
on the earth and in the clouds, amongst heroes, amongst the light-footed nymphs, and amongst
the Olympian gods! In these latter the movement of imagination is centrifugal, it sustains
itself in the loftiest altitudes, and in the most evanescent and fleecy shapes of thought it
finds the materials from which it wreathes its climbing, "cloud-capped" citadels. The opposite
order of genius is, as we have previously called it, centripetal, gravitating earthward.

Both orders are to be found among those celebrated as pulpit orators,--all, indeed, who have
ranked as powers in this department of human effort belonging eminently, nay, we may almost
say exclusively, to one or the other. If we take Spurgeon, Whitefield, Bunyan, and Luther as
representatives of one order, we shall have also representatives of the other in such orators
as Jeremy Taylor,--the Shakspeare of the pulpit,--and, though in a very different sort, Henry
Ward Beecher. That in which these two classes of orators differ is mainly the plane of their
movements,--the one hardly lifted above the earth's surface or above the level of sensibility,
while the other rises into the sphere of the ideal and impalpable. In the latter class there
are vast differences, but uniformly intellect is prominent above sensibility; human faith and
love are exhalant, aspirant, and rendered of a vapory subtilty by the interpenetration with
them of the Olympian sunlight of thought and imagination. In Beecher this ideality is of a
philosophic sort. Thought in him is forever dividing and illustrating truth; and that which
is his great peculiarity is that he is at the same time so strictly philosophical, even to
a metaphysical nicety, and so very popular. We have heard him, in a single discourse, give
utterance to so much philosophic truth relating to theology, as, if it were spread out over
a dozen sermons by doctors in divinity whom we have also heard, would be capital sufficient
to secure a professor's chair in any theological seminary in the country. Yet he is never abundant
in analytic statements of truth: these in any one of his sermons are "few"--as they should
be--"and far between": the greater portion of his time and the most mighty efforts of his dramatic
power being devoted to the irradiation and illustration of these truths. This is the fertility
of his genius, that, out of the roots which philosophy furnishes, it can, through its mysterious
broodings, bring forth into the breathing warmth of life organisms so delicate and perfect.
Here is the secret of his popularity. Jeremy Taylor, without being at all metaphysical, without
ever diving down to examine the beginnings of things in Nature or in men's hearts, had an infinitely
more fertile imagination, and the result was therefore more various and multiplex; it reached
a higher point in the graduated scale of ideality, it was the afflatus of a diviner inspiration,
and was more akin to the effects of the most exalted poetry: yet it was of far less value as
something which was to operate on men's minds than the result of Beecher's more pointed, more
scintillating discourse of reason. The fact is, that both Henry Ward Beecher and Jeremy Taylor
must of necessity depend, for any beneficial effects which they may seek to bring about in
the lives of their hearers, upon certain intellectual qualities already existing in their audience.
Even in order to be appreciated, they must have at least partially educated audiences. Give
either of them Whitefield's auditory, and these effects become impossible. Here we come upon
the inert masses, which cannot by any possibility be induced to ascend one single stair in
any upward movement, but must be swayed this way or that way upon a thoroughly dead level.

It is just here that the realistic preaching of the Spurgeon school is available, and nothing
else is. Here things must be taken just as they are found,--must be taken and presented in
their natural coloring, in their roughest shape. Polish the thought here, or let it be anything
save the strictest rescript from Nature, and you make it useless for your purposes. Here it
is not the crystal that is wanted, but the unshapely boulder. And provided you wield your weapons
after a masterly fashion, it matters very little what your manner or style may be as regards
the graces of composition; if only a giant, you may be the most unseemly and awkward one of
all Jötunheim.

Now these elements of success Spurgeon has in an eminent degree. He deals not simply with realities
of the grossest sort, but with those which are forever present to common humanity; he seeks
to move men to religious feelings through precisely the same means that they are daily moved
by, the same things which daily excite whatever of thought is transacted in their cramped-up
world of mind. This is particularly evident in the material structure upon which his sermons
proceed. This is just that kind of illustration which his audience craves. It matters not whether
he meets this audience through a vague or a transparent medium, provided the vagueness or the
transparency be common both to the speaker and his hearers. Nothing, for instance, could have
better accomplished the end designed, yet nothing could be more vague, than such an appeal
as the following:--"Have ye never on your bed dreamed a dream, when your thoughts roamed at
large and a bit was taken from your imagination, when, stretching all your wings, your soul
floated through the Infinite, grouping strange and marvellous things together, so that the
dream rolled on in something like supernatural splendor? But, on a sudden, you were awakened,
and you have regretted hours afterwards that the dream was never concluded. And what is a Christian,
if he does not arrive at perfection, but an unfinished dream?" Now there is nothing more universal
among the most unintellectual of the children of earth than just this sort of mystical reverie,
thus grand and thus inconclusive, where the mind, moved, perhaps, to this enthusiastic rapture
by that infusion of animal force which comes from a hearty dinner, remaining always just in
the same place, seems to wheel away, it knows not whither, but seemingly, and as it flatters
itself, into the regions of the Infinite. Really there is no mental movement at all,--nothing
but an outgoing through the myriad channels of animal sensibility; yet there is always associated,
in such minds, with reveries like these a spiritual elevation approaching to inspiration. "Oh,"
think they, "if the dream might only be completed, that would be the consummation of a divinely
spiritual being!" On this association Spurgeon founds a comparison, which, though utterly false
when analyzed, is yet no less effective as illustrating the particular idea which he wishes
to convey. Such associations, where he cannot correct them, it is the business of the popular
preacher to inherit as if they were his own, and to build upon as if they were gospel truths.

Spurgeon, again, is continually indulging in the most startling suppositions, and just those
which are most commonly entertained by vulgar minds,--as, for instance, the supposition of
some one, himself or some unfortunate hearer, dropping down dead in his chamber. And, in general,
he makes abundant use of that apprehension of death, which is far stronger in the uneducated
than in the more refined, as a source from which he may gather thunderbolt after thunderbolt
with which to startle the indifferent and hardened heart. What matter though the sentiment
to which he appeals be a perverted sentiment? what matter how severely wrenched out of its
normal channel? if through this tortuous channel something of the divine truth reaches the
awakened conscience, then is there hope, that, through divine grace entering with the truth,
all these perversions and anomalies of sinful nature may be set right, and the soul again arrive
at celestial harmony with the universe.

The method of such preaching is as organic, considering the circumstances, as that of Beecher's
preaching. The only difference is, that the latter finds an audience that through intellectual
facility is able to follow him in any path; while Spurgeon, on the other hand, finds his audience
destitute of any such facilities, yet finds them facile in every direction where he can bring
into alliance with his power their emotions or their peculiar modes of mental action.

Nor do the grosser realities of the world, as present ever with the hearer, and as present
ever with the preacher, at all disturb the efficiency of human faith: indeed, they form the
most beautiful relief upon which faith is ever to be discovered, for thus is that which in
its supernatural alliance is entirely heavenly seen shining through the lowest bases of our
nature, which in their alliance are everlastingly associated with earth.

A Treatise on the American Law of Easements and Servitudes. By EMORY WASHBURN, LL.D. Philadelphia:
George W. Childs. pp. 640.

"Easements" is no easy subject for a law-writer. In its development he will be thrown, to a
great extent, upon his own resources in collating and unfolding the topics, for the literature
upon the subject existing in our own language is so meagre that the form of its presentation
has not been cast in any conventional mould. We have heretofore had no American treatise whatever
upon the general subject, and the English bar has furnished us only with that of Gale and Whately,
which almost wholly ignores the American cases. It is evident, therefore, that it required
an original and fresh intellectual effort to gather together the hundreds of adjudications
scattered through our various State reports, classify them, compare them, study them, and construct
a homogeneous and extensive analysis of their doctrine. This sort of distillation, if we may
so speak, from the crude mass, has been most thoroughly performed by the author of the work
before us; and the result is, that, instead of merely making a book, he has indeed written
one. In reading it, we recall the great authoritative treatises of the profession, such as
Abbott on Shipping, or Sugden on Vendors, and we are also the more disgusted with the hotchpots
of the "United States Digest," called law-books.

Professor Washburn is fairly before the public as the author of the "Treatise on the American
Law of Real Property," and his merits as a writer have thus become so well known as to render
any new commendation superfluous. His style is plain, clear, and compact. He addresses himself
directly to the subject of which he is treating, spinning no curious refinements, and admitting
no irrelevant digressions. Nor does he keep the reader oscillating between text and notes,
in a state of dizzying, unstable equilibrium which would task an acrobate. There be books we
have seen printed, and heard others praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely, in
which the text was so shingled over with layers of notes, or the notes were so underpinned
by a slight propping of text, that it was difficult to say, in the language of Easements, which
was the servient and which the dominant tenement. Our author's volume, we are happy to say,
is not thus bifurcated. His law is in his text, and his sources are in his notes.

There is another feature which we dare not overlook, and that is, the hearty conscientiousness
with which the writer does his work. He takes nothing at secondhand, but goes straightway to
the authorities. It begets confidence in a writer, when he is enabled to say for himself, as
the Professor apologetically does in his Preface, "It has been my aim to examine for myself
every reported case which bore sufficiently upon the topic under consideration to warrant a
reference to it as an authority"; and when we are further told that "the cases thus examined
considerably exceed a thousand in number," we may form some conception of the great industry
as well as the rare literary honesty of the writer.

The arrangement of the book is admirable. At the commencement of each chapter we have the titles
of the various sections, and each successive section is introduced by a statement of the contents
of each clause. This facilitates search, though it necessitates the cumbrous mode of reference
adopted in the foot-notes to chapter, section, and placitum.

It would be easy for us to prolong this notice, but we must content ourselves with an earnest
commendation of the work to the profession. It is literally indispensable to the general practitioner,
not merely because it is the only book which contains the collected law on the subject as administered
in this country, but also because, if it had a dozen competitors, its intrinsic value would
be all the more fully developed by the comparison.

The Astronomy of the Bible. By O.M. MITCHELL, LL.D. 12mo. New York Blakeman & Mason.

This work contains seven Lectures, in which the distinguished and lamented author has undertaken
to prove not only that the science of Astronomy does not discredit the inspiration of the Sacred
Scriptures, but that it affords many clear evidences that they are a Divine Revelation. The
first demonstrates, against the Atheist, the being of God. The second adduces evidence that
the God of the universe is the Jehovah of the Bible. The third considers the cosmogony revealed
by the present state of astronomy; and the fourth compares the Mosaic account of creation with
the theory advanced in the preceding lecture. The fifth is devoted to the ancient and venerable
Book of Job with reference to the astronomical allusions it contains. The sixth is on the astronomical
miracles of the Bible; and the seventh is on the language of the Bible with reference to astronomy.

This brief statement of the subjects discussed is sufficient to show that the work is one of
no ordinary character. The interest the publication of these lectures will awaken will be intensified
by the considerations, that they contain the matured views of one of the first astronomers
of the age, on a subject of transcendent importance,--and that they are the last contributions
to the cause of science and religion from his gifted pen. They were delivered within the last
few years, in our principal cities, to very large and deeply interested audiences; and their
appearance in print just now is most timely. The question respecting the relations of Christianity
and Science to each other is now exciting a very general and intense interest. The Bible was
written during a period in the history of the world when true science was almost unknown. The
writers of the several books which compose the sacred volume, with scarcely an exception, made
no pretensions to scientific investigation; and they did not so much reason out as announce
great truths and principles intimately related to almost every department of human knowledge.
These venerable writings have been and now are subjected to a test which no other professed
revelation has been able to bear. If, then, it shall be found that their direct teachings and
their numerous references to the works of Nature harmonize with the averments of science in
this age of its greatest achievements--still more, if it shall appear that the different sciences,
unknown when they were written, strongly corroborate their teachings, direct and indirect,--it
will be difficult for candid minds to resist the conviction that their origin is Divine.

No one of the sciences was less understood, in those remote ages, than Astronomy; and yet to
no part of the works of Nature does the Bible make more frequent references than to the heavenly
bodies. In this department, therefore, if anywhere, we might expect to find discrepancy between
the teachings of science and revelation. But the impartial reader will rise from the perusal
of this volume, not only with his faith in the inspiration of the Scriptures confirmed, but
with the conviction that the sublime science of Astronomy affords a far more just conception
of the pregnant meaning of the eloquent language of Job, David, and Isaiah, than without it
we could attain.

These lectures will be regarded as the more valuable, because they are the voluntary contribution
of a Christian layman, as well as of a man of eminent scientific attainments, to the great
argument on which depends the religious faith of mankind. Possessing a mind of extraordinary
powers, trained under the promptings of an intense thirst for knowledge to patient and thorough
investigation, he made for himself a reputation which secures the strongest confidence in his
ability to treat the momentous and difficult questions he undertook to discuss in these lectures;
whilst the remarkable clearness of his views, his brilliant imagination, and an extraordinary
affluence of language and felicity of expression, both enlighten the understanding and gratify
the most cultivated taste. Professor Mitchell did more than any other man to popularize the
science of Astronomy; and the use he has made of it in defence of Christianity seems a fitting
termination of his noble labors.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

Country Seats: containing Lithographic Designs for Cottages, Villas, Mansions, etc., with their
Accompanying Outbuildings; also, Country Churches, City Buildings, Railway-Stations, etc.,
etc. By Henry Hudson Holly, Architect. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 4to. pp. xiv., 171. $3.50.

A Tangled Skein. By Albany Fonblanque, Jr. Boston. T.O.H.P. Bunmam. 8vo. paper, pp. 217. 50 cts.

Political Fallacies: An Examination of the False Assumptions, and Refutation of the Sophistical
Reasonings, which have brought on this Civil War. By George Junkin, D.D., LL.D. New York. C.
Scribner. 12mo. pp. 332. $1.25.

The Resources of California, comprising Agriculture, Mining, Geography, Climate, Commerce,
etc., etc., and the Past and Future Development of the State. By John S. Hittel. San Francisco.
A. Roman & Co. 12mo; pp. xvi., 464. $1.50.

Wild Scenes in South America; or, Life in the Llanos of Venezuela. By Don Ramon Paez. New York.
C. Scribner. 12mo. pp. x., 502. $1.50.

The Song of Iron and the Song of Slaves; with other Poems. By Kane O'Donnell. Philadelphia.
King & Baird. 18mo. pp. 72. 50 cts.

Recollections of Venice. By Charles Henry Jones. Reading, Pa. B.F. Owen. 18mo. pp. 81. 25 cts.

Miscellanies. By James B. Everhart. West Chester. Edward F. James, pp. viii., 300. $1.00.

The Foggy Night at Offord. By Mrs. Henry Wood. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers. 8vo.
paper, pp. 57. 25 cts.

The Sleeping Sentinel. By Francis de Haes Janvier. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers.
16mo. paper, pp. 19. 10 cts.

Inside Out. A Curious Book. By a Singular Man. New York. Miller, Mathews, & Clasback. 16mo.
pp. viii., 364. $1.25.

Arbitrary Arrests in the South; or, Scenes from the Experience of an Alabama Unionist. By R.S.
Tharin, A.M. New York. John Bradburn. 16mo. pp. 245. $1.00.

Three Years in Chili. New York. Follett, Foster, & Co. 16mo. pp. viii, 153. 75 cts.

A History of the Law, the Courts, and the Lawyers of Maine, from its Colonization to the Early
Part of the Present Century. By William Willis. Portland. Bailey & Noyes. 8vo. pp. 712. $3.00.

Lectures on the History of the Jewish Church. Part I. Abraham to Samuel. By Arthur Penrhyn
Stanley, D.D., Regius Professor of Ecclesiastical History in the University of Oxford, and
Canon of Christ Church. With Maps and Plans. New York. C. Scribner. 8vo. pp. xi., 572. $3.00.

Tenth Annual Report of the Secretary of the Massachusetts Board of Agriculture, together with
Reports of Committees appointed to visit the County Societies. With an Appendix, containing
an Abstract of the Finances of the County Societies for 1862. Boston. Wright & Potter, State
Printers. 8vo. pp. 424.

Abstract of Returns of the Agricultural Societies of Massachusetts, 1862. Edited by Charles
L. Flint, Secretary of the State Board of Agriculture. Boston. Wright & Potter, State Printers.
8vo. pp. 260.

Man's Cry, and God's Gracious Answer. A Contribution toward the Defence of the Faith. By the
Rev. B. Franklin. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 18mo. pp. 94. 25 cts.

The Trapper's Daughter. A Story of the Rocky Mountains. By Gustavo Aimard. Philadelphia. T.B.
Peterson & Brothers. Volume XVI. V-Zwirner. With a Supplement. New York. D. Appleton & Co.
8vo. pp. 850, x., 8. $3.00.

Wanderings of a Beauty. A Tale of the Real and the Ideal. By Mrs. Edwin James. New York. G.W.
Carleton. 12mo. paper. pp. 243. 75 cts.

Observations on China and the Chinese. By W.L.G. Smith, late U.S. Consul at Shanghai. New York.
G.W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 216. $1.00. 75 cts.

The National Tax-Law, as amended; embodying all the Official Decisions, Official List of Assessors
and Collectors, Alphabetical Schedule of Taxable Articles, Copious Indexes, etc., with a Complete
Compendium of Stamp-Duties, and an Explanatory Preface. Compiled and Arranged by Edward H.
Hall, Washington, D.C. New York. G.W. Carleton. 12mo. paper. pp. 136. 50 cts.

Pre-Adamite Man: The Story of the Human Race, from Thirty-Five Thousand to One Hundred Thousand
Years ago. By Griffin Lee, of Texas. New York. Sinclair Tousey. 12mo. pp. 408. $1.25.

On the Origin of Species: or, The Causes of the Phenomena of Organic Nature. A Course of Six
Lectures to Working-Men. 75 cts.

The Results of Slavery. By Augustus Cochin, Ex-Maire and Municipal Councillor of Paris. Translated
by Mary L. Booth. Boston. Walker, Wise, & Co. 12mo. pp. x., 413. $1.50.

A Text-Book on Penmanship; containing all the Established Rules and Principles of the Art,
with Rules for Punctuation, Directions and Forms for Letter-Writing, to which are added a Brief
History of Writing, and Hints on Writing-Materials, etc., etc. For Teachers and Pupils. Adapted
for Use in Schools, Academies, and Commercial Colleges, in Connection with any Well-Arranged
Series of Copy-Books. By H.W. Ellsworth, Teacher of Penmanship in the Public Schools of New
York City, etc. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. xviii., 232. $1.50.

The Gentle Skeptic; or, Essays and Conversations of a Country Justice on the Authenticity and
Truth of the Old Testament Records. Edited by the Rev. C. Walworth. New York. D. Appleton &
Co. 12mo. pp. 368. $1.50. Part II. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 303. $1.25.

Annette; or, The Lady of the Pearls. By Alexander Dumas the Younger. Translated by Mrs. W.R.A.
Johnson. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers. 8vo. paper, pp. 173. 50 cts.

My Southern Friends. By Edmund Kirke, Author of "Among the Pines." New York. G.W. Carleton.
16mo. paper, pp. 308. 50 cts.

Letters on the Ministry of the Gospel. By Francis Wayland. Boston. Gould & Lincoln. 16mo. pp.
210. 60 cts.

Cavalry; its History, Management, and Uses in War. By J. Roemer, LL.D., late an Officer in
the Service of the Netherlands. With Illustrations. New York. D. Van Nostrand. 8vo. pp. 515, $5.00.

Mysteries of Life, Death, and Futurity. Illustrated from the Best and Latest Authorities. By
Horace Welby, Author of "Signs before Death," etc. New York. J.G. Gregory. 12mo. pp. 356. $1.50.
Gould & Lincoln. 12mo. pp. 343. $1.50.

The United States Bank Law. Approved February 25, 1863. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. paper,
pp. xii., 28. 25 cts.

Harper's Pictorial History of the Great Rebellion in the United States. New York. Harper &
Brothers. 4to. paper. Nos. 1-4. pp. 24, each. 25 cts.

Around the Pyramids: being a Tour In the Holy Land, and, incidentally, through Several European
Countries, and Portions of Africa, during the Years 1859-60. By Aaron Ward. New York. G.W.
Carleton. 12mo. pp. 309. $1.00.

Marked for Life. Edited by Marlay. New York. G.W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 216. $1.00.

A Book of Nonsense. By Edward Lear. From the Tenth London Edition. With Many New Pictures and
Verses. Philadelphia. Willis P. Hazard, long 8vo. pp. 112. $1.00.

German Lyric Poetry. A Collection of Songs and Ballads. Translated from the Best German Lyric
Poets. With Notes. By Charles T. Brooks. Philadelphia. Willis P. Hazard. 16mo. pp. xx., 400. $1.25.

The Roman Catholic Principle: A "Price Lecture," delivered in Trinity Church, Boston. By F.D.
Huntington, D.D., Rector of Emmanuel Church, Boston. E.P. Dutton & Co 16mo. paper, pp. 40. 10 cts.

Incidents in My Life. By D.D. Howe. With an Introduction by Judge Edmonds. New York. G.W. Carleton.
16mo. pp. 315. $1.25.

Chaplain Fuller: being a Life-Sketch of a New-England Clergyman and Army Chaplain. By Richard
F. Fuller. Boston. Walker, Wise, &Co. 12mo. pp. vi., 342. $1.50.

The Conscript. A Tale of War. By Alexander Dumas. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers. 12mo.
pp. 400. $1.50.

Moses Right, and Bishop Colenso Wrong; being Popular Lectures on the Pentateuch. By the Rev.
John Cumming, D.D., F.R.S.E. New York. John Bradburn. 12mo. pp. 271. $1.00.

