And imperfectly as we may apprehend all this, there is an obscure sense, or instinct I might
call it, in every one of us, of this truth. We all, whether we have given a distinct account
of the matter to ourselves or not, believe that words which we use are not arbitrary and capricious
signs, affixed at random to the things which they designate, for which any other might have
been substituted as well, but that they stand in a real relation to these. And this sense of
the significance of names, that they are, or ought to be,--that in a world of absolute truth
they ever would be,--the expression of the innermost character and qualities of the things
or persons that bear them, speaks out in various ways, It is reported of Boiardo, author of
a poem without which we should probably have never seen the Orlando Furioso of Ariosto, that
he was out hunting, when the name Rodomonte presented itself to him as exactly fitting a foremost
person of the epic he was composing; and that instantly returning home, he caused all the joy-bells
of the village to be rung, to celebrate the happy invention. This story may remind us of another
which is told of the greatest French novelist of modern times. A friend of Balzac's, who has
written some Recollections of him, tells us that he would sometimes wander for days through
the streets of Paris, studying the names over the shops, as being sure that there was a name
more appropriate than any other to some character which he had conceived, and hoping to light
on it there.

You must all have remarked the amusement and interest which children find in any notable agreement
between a name and the person who owns that name, as, for instance, if Mr. Long is tall--or,
which naturally takes a still stronger hold upon them, in any manifest contradiction between
the name and the name-bearer; if Mr. Strongitharm is a weakling, or Mr. Black an albino: the
former striking from a sense of fitness, the latter from one of incongruity. Nor is this a
mere childish entertainment. It continues with us through life; and that its roots lie deep
is attested by the earnest use which is often made, and that at the most earnest moments of
men's lives, of such agreements or disagreements as these. Such use is not un-frequent in Scripture,
though it is seldom possible to reproduce it in English, as for instance in the comment of
Abigail on her husband Nabal's name: 'As his name is, so is he; Nabal is his name, and folly
is with him' (i Sam. xxv. 25). And again, 'Call me not Naomi,' exclaims the desolate widow--
'call me not Naomi [or pleasantness]; call me Marah [or bitterness], for the Almighty hath
dealt very bitterly with me.' She cannot endure that the name she bears should so strangely
contradict the thing she is. Shakespeare, in like manner, reveals his own profound knowledge
of the human heart, when he makes old John of Gaunt, worn with long sickness, and now ready
to depart, play with his name, and dwell upon the consent between it and his condition; so
that when his royal nephew asks him, 'How is it with aged Gaunt?' he answers,

     'Oh, how that name befits my composition,
     Old Gaunt indeed, and gaunt in being old--
     Gaunt am I for the grave, gaunt as the grave--' [Footnote:
Ajax, or [Greek: Aias], in the play of Sophocles, which bears his name,
does the same with the [Greek: aiai] which lies in that name (422,
423); just as in the Bacchae of Euripides, not Pentheus himself, but
others for him, indicate the prophecy of a mighty [Greek: penthos] or
grief, which is shut up in his name (367). A tragic writer, less known
than Euripides, does the same: [Greek: Pentheus, esomenes sumphoras
eponymos]. Eteocles in the Phoenissae of Euripides makes a play of
the same kind on the name of Polynices.] with much more in the same
fashion; while it is into the mouth of the slight and frivolous king
that Shakespeare puts the exclamation of wonder,

'Can sick men play so nicely with their names?' [Footnote: 'Hus' is Bohemian for 'goose' [the
two words being in fact cognate forms]; and here we have the explanation of the prophetic utterance
of Hus, namely, that in place of one goose, tame and weak of wing, God would send falcons and
eagles before long.]

Mark too how, if one is engaged in a controversy or quarrel, and his name imports something
good, his adversary will lay hold of the name, will seek to bring out a real contradiction
between the name and the bearer of the name, so that he shall appear as one presenting himself
under false colours, affecting a merit which he does not really possess. Examples of this abound.
There was one Vigilantius in the early Church;--his name might be interpreted 'The Watchful.'
He was at issue with St. Jerome about certain vigils; these he thought perilous to Christian
morality, while Jerome was a very eager promoter of them; who instantly gave a turn to his
name, and proclaimed that he, the enemy of these watches, the partisan of slumber and sloth,
should have been not Vigilantius or The Watcher, but 'Dormitantius' or The Sleeper rather.
Felix, Bishop of Urgel, a chief champion in the eighth century of the Adoptianist heresy, is
constantly 'Infelix' in the writings of his adversary Alcuin. The Spanish peasantry during
the Peninsular War would not hear of Bonaparte, but changed the name to 'Malaparte,' as designating
far better the perfidious kidnapper of their king and enemy of their independence. It will
be seen then that Aeschylus is most true to nature, when in his Prometheus Bound he makes Strength
tauntingly to remind Prometheus, or The Prudent, how ill his name and the lot which he has
made for himself agreed, bound as he is with adamantine chains to his rock, and bound, as it
might seem, for ever. When Napoleon said of Count Lobau, whose proper name was Mouton, 'Mon
mouton c'est un lion,' it was the same instinct at work, though working from an opposite point.
It made itself felt no less in the bitter irony which gave to the second of the Ptolemies,
the brother-murdering king, the title of Philadelphus.

But more frequent still is this hostile use of names, this attempt to place them and their
owners in the most intimate connexion, to make, so to speak, the man answerable for his name,
where the name does not thus need to be reversed; but may be made as it now is, or with very
slightest change, to contain a confession of the ignorance, worthlessness, or futility of the
bearer. If it implies, or can be made to imply, anything bad, it is instantly laid hold of
as expressing the very truth about him. You know the story of Helen of Greece, whom in two
of his 'mighty lines' Marlowe's Faust so magnificently apostrophizes:

     'Is this the face that launched a thousand ships,
      And burned the topless towers of Ilium?'

It is no frigid conceit of the Greek poet, when one passionately denouncing the ruin which
she wrought, finds that ruin couched and fore-announced in her name; [Footnote: [Greek: Helenas
[=helenaos], helandros, heleptolis], Aeschylus, Agamemnon, 636.] as in English it might be,
and has been, reproduced--

     'Hell in her name, and heaven in her looks.'

Or take other illustrations. Pope Hildebrand in one of our Homilies is styled 'Brand of Hell,'
as setting the world in a blaze; as 'Hoellenbrand' he appears constantly in German. Tott and
Teuffel were two officers of high rank in the army which Gustavus Adolphus brought with him
into Germany. You may imagine how soon those of the other side declared that he had brought
'death' and 'hell' in his train. There were two not inconsiderable persons in the time of our
Civil Wars, Vane (not the 'young Vane' of Milton's and Wordsworth's sonnets), and Sterry; and
one of these, Sterry, was chaplain to the other. Baxter, having occasion to mention them in
his profoundly instructive Narrative of his Life and Times, and liking neither, cannot forbear
to observe, that 'vanity and sterility were never more fitly joined together;' and speaks elsewhere
of 'the vanity of Vane, and the sterility of Sterry.' This last, let me observe, is an eminently
unjust charge, as Baxter himself in a later volume [Footnote: Catholic Theology, pt, 3, p.
107.] has very handsomely acknowledged. [Footnote: A few more examples, in a note, of this
contumely of names. Antiochus Epiphanes, or 'the Illustrious,' is for the Jews, whom he so
madly attempted to hellenize, Antiochus Epimanes, or 'the Insane.' Cicero, denouncing Verres,
the infamous praetor of Sicily, is too skilful a master of the passions to allow the name of
the arch-criminal to escape unused. He was indeed Verres, for he swept the province; he was
a sweep-net for it (everriculum in provincia); and then presently, giving altogether another
turn to his name, Others, he says, might be partial to 'jus verrinum' (which might mean either
Verrine law or boar- sauce), but not he. Tiberius Claudius Nero, charged with being a drunkard,
becomes in the popular language 'Biberius Caldius Mero.' The controversies of the Church with
heretics yield only too abundant a supply, and that upon both sides, of examples of this kind.
The 'royal- hearted' Athanasius is 'Satanasius' for the Arians; and some of St. Cyprian's adversaries
did not shrink from so foul a perversion of his name as to call him Koprianos, or 'the Dungy.'
But then how often is Pelagius declared by the Church Fathers to be a pelagus, a very ocean
of wickedness. It was in vain that the Manichaeans changed their master's name from Manes to
Manichaeus, that so it might not so nearly resemble the word signifying madness in the Greek
(devitantes nomen insaniae, Augustine, De Haer. 46); it did not thereby escape. The Waldenses,
or Wallenses, were declared by Roman controversialists to be justly so called, as dwelling
'in valle densa,' in the thick valley of darkness and ignorance. Cardinal Clesel was active
in setting forward the Roman Catholic reaction in Bohemia with which the dismal tragedy of
the Thirty Years' War began. It was a far-fetched and not very happy piece of revenge, when
they of the other side took pleasure in spelling his name 'CLesel,' as much as to say, He of
the 150 ass-power. Berengar of Tours calls a Pope who had taken sides against him not pontifex,
but 'pompifex.' Metrophanes, Patriarch of Constantinople, being counted to have betrayed the
interests of the Greek Church, his spiritual mother, at the Council of Florence, saw his name
changed by popular hate into 'Metrophonos,' or the 'Matricide.' In the same way of more than
one Pope Urbanus it was declared that he would have been better named 'Turbanus' (quasi turbans
Ecclesiam). Mahomet appears as 'Bafomet,' influenced perhaps by 'bafa,' a lie, in Provencal.
Shechem, a chief city of the heretical Samaritans, becomes 'Sychar,' or city of lies (see John
iv. 5), so at least some will have it, on the lips of the hostile Jews; while Toulouse, a very
seedplot of heresies, Albigensian and other, in the Middle Ages, is declared by writers of
those times to have prophesied no less by its name (Tolosa = tota dolosa). In the same way
adversaries of Wiclif traced in his name an abridgement of 'wicked- belief.' Metternich was
'Mitternacht,' or Midnight, for the political reformers of Germany in the last generation.
It would be curious to know how often the Sorbonne has been likened to a 'Serbonian' bog; some
'privilegium' declared to be not such indeed, but a 'pravilegium' rather. Baxter complains
that the Independents called presbyters 'priestbiters,' Presbyterian ministers not 'divines'
but 'dry vines,' and their Assembly men 'Dissembly men.']

Where, on the other hand, it is desired to do a man honour, how gladly, in like manner, is
his name seized on, if it in any way bears an honourable significance, or is capable of an
honourable interpretation --men finding in that name a presage and prophecy of that which was
actually in its bearer. A multitude of examples, many of them very beautiful, might be brought
together in this kind. How often, for instance, and with what effect, the name of Stephen,
the proto-martyr, that name signifying in Greek 'the Crown,' was taken as a prophetic intimation
of the martyr-crown, which it should be given to him, the first in that noble army, to wear.
[Footnote: Thus in a sublime Latin hymn by Adam of St. Victor:

     Nomen habes Coronati;
     Te tormenta decet pati
     Pro corona gloriae.

Elsewhere the same illustrious hymnologist plays in like manner on the name of St. Vincentius:

     Qui vincentis habet nomen
     Ex re probat dignum omen
     Sui fore nominis;
     Vincens terra, vincens mari
     Quidquid potest irrogari
     Poenae vel formidinis.

In the Bull for the canonization of Sta. Clara, the canonizing Pope does not disdain a similar
play upon her name: Clara Claris praeclara meritis, magnae in caelo claritate gloriae, ac in
terra miraculorum sublimium, clare claret. On these 'prophetic' names in the heathen world
see Pott, Wurzel-Woerterbuch, vol. ii. part 2, p. 522.]

Irenaeus means in Greek 'the Peaceable'; and early Church writers love to remark how fitly
the illustrious Bishop of Lyons bore this name, setting forward as he so earnestly did the
peace of the Church, resolved as he was, so far as in him lay, to preserve the unity of the
Spirit in the bond of peace. [Footnote: We cannot adduce St. Columba as another example in
the same kind, seeing that this name was not his birthright, but one given to him by his scholars
for the dove-like gentleness of his character. So indeed we are told; though it must be owned
that some of the traits recorded of him in The Monks of the West are not columbine at all.]
The Dominicans were well pleased when their name was resolved into 'Domini canes'--the Lord's
watchdogs; who, as such, allowed no heresy to appear without at once giving the alarm, and
seeking to chase it away. When Ben Jonson praises Shakespeare's 'well-filed lines'--

     'In each of which he seems to shake a lance
      As brandished in the eyes of ignorance'

--he is manifestly playing with his name. Fuller, too, our own Church historian, who played
so often upon the names of others, has a play made upon his own in some commendatory verses
prefixed to one of his books:

     'Thy style is clear and white; thy very name
      Speaks pureness, and adds lustre to the frame.'

He plays himself upon it in an epigram which takes the form of a prayer:

     'My soul is stained with a dusky colour:
      Let thy Son be the soap; I'll be the fuller.'

John Careless, whose letters are among the most beautiful in Foxe's Book of Martyrs, writing
to Philpot, exclaims, 'Oh good master Philpot, which art a principal pot indeed, filled with
much precious liquor,--oh pot most happy! of the High Potter ordained to honour.'

Herein, in this faith that men's names were true and would come true, in this, and not in any
altogether unreasoning superstition, lay the root of the carefulness of the Romans that in
the enlisting of soldiers names of good omen, such as Valerius, Salvius, Secundus, should be
the first called. Scipio Africanus, reproaching his soldiers after a mutiny, finds an aggravation
of their crime in the fact that one with so ill- omened a name as Atrius Umber should have
seduced them, and persuaded them to take him for their leader. So strong is the conviction
of men that names are powers. Nay, it must have been sometimes thought that the good name might
so react on the evil nature that it should not remain evil altogether, but might be induced,
in part at least, to conform itself to the designation which it bore. Here we have an explanation
of the title Eumenides, or the Well-minded, given to the Furies; of Euxine, or the kind to
strangers, to the inhospitable Black Sea, 'stepmother of ships,' as the Greek poet called it;
the explanation too of other similar transformations, of the Greek Egesta transformed by the
Romans into 'Segesta,' that it might not suggest 'egestas' or penury; [Footnote: [But the form
Segesta is probably older than Egesta, the Romans here, as in other cases, retaining the original
initial s, which in Greek is represented generally by the rough, sometimes by the smooth breathing.]]
of Epidamnus, which, in like manner seeming too suggestive of 'damnum,' or loss, was changed
into 'Dyrrachium'; of Maleventum, which became 'Beneventum'; of Cape Tormentoso, or Stormy
Cape, changed into 'Cape of Good Hope'; of the fairies being always respectfully spoken of
as 'the good people' in Ireland, even while they are accredited with any amount of mischief;
of the dead spoken of alike in Greek and in Latin simply as 'the majority'; of the dying, in
Greek liturgies remembered as 'those about to set forward upon a journey'[Footnote: [Greek:
oi exodeuontes]]; of the slain in battle designated in German as 'those who remain,' that is,
on the field of battle; of [Greek: eulogia], or 'the blessing,' as a name given in modern Greek
to the smallpox! We may compare as an example of this same euphemism the famous 'Vixerunt'
with which Cicero announced that the conspirators against the Roman State had paid the full
penalty of their treason.

Let me observe, before leaving this subject, that not in one passage only, but in passages
innumerable, Scripture sets its seal to this significance of names, to the fact that the seeking
and the finding of this significance is not a mere play upon the surface of things: it everywhere
recognizes the inner band, which ought to connect, and in a world of truth would connect, together
the name and the person or thing bearing the name. Scripture sets its seal to this by the weight
and solemnity which it everywhere attaches to the imposing of names; this in many instances
not being left to hazard, but assumed by God as his own peculiar care. 'Thou shalt call his
name Jesus' (Matt. i. 21; Luke i. 31) is of course the most illustrious instance of all; but
there is a multitude of other cases in point; names given by God, as that of John to the Baptist;
or changed by Him, as Abram's to Abraham (Gen. xvii. 3), Sarai's to Sarah, Hoshea's to Joshua;
or new names added by Him to the old, when by some mighty act of faith the man had been lifted
out of his old life into a new; as Israel added to Jacob, and Peter to Simon, and Boanerges
or Sons of thunder to the two sons of Zebedee (Mark iii. 17). The same feeling is at work elsewhere.
A Pope on his election always takes a new name. Or when it is intended to make, for good or
for ill, an entire breach with the past, this is one of the means by which it is sought to
effect as much (2 Chr. xxxvi. 4; Dan. i. 7). How far this custom reaches, how deep the roots
which it casts, is exemplified well in the fact that the West Indian buccaneer makes a like
change of name on entering that society of blood. It is in both cases a sort of token that
old things have passed away, that all have become new to him.

But we must draw to a close. Enough has been said to attest and to justify the wide-spread
faith of men that names are significant, and that things and persons correspond, or ought to
correspond, to them. You will not, then, find it a laborious task to persuade your pupils to
admit as much. They are prepared to accept, they will be prompt to believe it. And great indeed
will be our gains, their gains and ours,-- for teacher and taught will for the most part enrich
themselves together,--if, having these treasures of wisdom and knowledge lying round about
us, so far more precious than mines of Californian gold, we determine that we will make what
portion of them we can our own, that we will ask the words which we use to give an account
of themselves, to say whence they are, and whither they tend. Then shall we often rub off the
dust and rust from what seemed to us but a common token, which as such we had taken and given
a thousand times; but which now we shall perceive to be a precious coin, bearing the 'image
and superscription' of the great King: then shall we often stand in surprise and in something
of shame, while we behold the great spiritual realities which underlie our common speech, the
marvellous truths which we have been witnessing for in our words, but, it may be, witnessing
against in our lives. And as you will not find, for so I venture to promise, that this study
of words will be a dull one when you undertake it yourselves, as little need you fear that
it will prove dull and unattractive, when you seek to make your own gains herein the gains
also of those who may be hereafter committed to your charge. Only try your pupils, and mark
the kindling of the eye, the lighting up of the countenance, the revival of the flagging attention,
with which the humblest lecture upon words, and on the words especially which they are daily
using, which are familiar to them in their play or at their church, will be welcomed by them.
There is a sense of reality about children which makes them rejoice to discover that there
is also a reality about words, that they are not merely arbitrary signs, but living powers;
that, to reverse the saying of one of England's 'false prophets,' they may be the fool's counters,
but are the wise man's money; not, like the sands of the sea, innumerable disconnected atoms,
but growing out of roots, clustering in families, connecting and intertwining themselves with
all that men have been doing and thinking and feeling from the beginning of the world till now.

And it is of course our English tongue, out of which mainly we should seek to draw some of
the hid treasures which it contains, from which we should endeavour to remove the veil which
custom and familiarity have thrown over it. We cannot employ ourselves better. There is nothing
that will more help than will this to form an English heart in ourselves and in others. We
could scarcely have a single lesson on the growth of our English tongue, we could scarcely
follow up one of its significant words, without having unawares a lesson in English history
as well, without not merely falling on some curious fact illustrative of our national life,
but learning also how the great heart which is beating at the centre of that life was gradually
shaped and moulded. We should thus grow too in our sense of connexion with the past, of gratitude
and reverence to it; we should rate more highly and thus more truly all which it has bequeathed
to us, all that it has made ready to our hands. It was not a small matter for the children
of Israel, when they came into Canaan, to enter upon wells which they digged not, and vineyards
which they had not planted, and houses which they had not built; but how much vaster a boon,
how much more glorious a prerogative, for any one generation to enter upon the inheritance
of a language which other generations by their truth and toil have made already a receptacle
of choicest treasures, a storehouse of so much unconscious wisdom, a fit organ for expressing
the subtlest distinctions, the tenderest sentiments, the largest thoughts, and the loftiest
imaginations, which the heart of man has at any time conceived. And that those who have preceded
us have gone far to accomplish this for us, I shall rejoice if I am able in any degree to make
you feel in the lectures which will follow the present.

LECTURE II.

ON THE POETRY IN WORDS.

I said in my last lecture, or rather I quoted another who had said, that language is fossil
poetry. It is true that for us very often this poetry which is bound up in words has in great
part or altogether disappeared. We fail to recognize it, partly from long familiarity with
it, partly from insufficient knowledge, partly, it may be, from never having had our attention
called to it. None have pointed it out to us; we may not ourselves have possessed the means
of detecting it; and thus it has come to pass that we have been in close vicinity to this wealth,
which yet has not been ours. Margaret has not been for us 'the Pearl,' nor Esther 'the Star,'
nor Susanna 'the Lily,' [Footnote: See Jacob Grimm, Ueber Frauennamen aus Blumen, in his Kleinere
Schriften, vol. ii. pp. 366-401; and on the subject of this paragraph more generally, Schleicher,
Die Deutsche Sprache, p. 115 sqq.] nor Stephen 'the Crown,' nor Albert 'the illustrious in
birth.' 'In our ordinary language,' as Montaigne has said, 'there are several excellent phrases
and metaphors to be met with, of which the beauty is withered by age, and the colour is sullied
by too common handling; but that takes nothing from the relish to an understanding man, neither
does it derogate from the glory of those ancient authors, who, 'tis likely, first brought those
words into that lustre.' We read in one of Moliere's most famous comedies of one who was surprised
to discover that he had been talking prose all his life without being aware of it. If we knew
all, we might be much more surprised to find that we had been talking poetry, without ever
having so much as suspected this. For indeed poetry and passion seek to insinuate, and do insinuate
themselves everywhere in language; they preside continually at the giving of names; they enshrine
and incarnate themselves in these: for 'poetry is the mother tongue of the human race,' as
a great German writer has said. My present lecture shall contain a few examples and illustrations,
by which I would make the truth of this appear.

'Iliads without a Homer,' some one has called, with a little exaggeration, the beautiful but
anonymous ballad poetry of Spain. One may be permitted, perhaps, to push the exaggeration a
little further in the same direction, and to apply the same language not merely to a ballad
but to a word. For poetry, which is passion and imagination embodying themselves in words,
does not necessarily demand a combination of words for this. Of this passion and imagination
a single word may be the vehicle. As the sun can image itself alike in a tiny dew-drop or in
the mighty ocean, and can do it, though on a different scale, as perfectly in the one as in
the other, so the spirit of poetry can dwell in and glorify alike a word and an Iliad. Nothing
in language is too small, as nothing is too great, for it to fill with its presence. Everywhere
it can find, or, not finding, can make, a shrine for itself, which afterwards it can render
translucent and transparent with its own indwelling glory. On every side we are beset with
poetry. Popular language is full of it, of words used in an imaginative sense, of things called--and
not merely in transient moments of high passion, and in the transfer which at such moments
finds place of the image to the thing imaged, but permanently,--by names having immediate reference
not to what they are, but to what they are like. All language is in some sort, as one has said,
a collection of faded metaphors. [Footnote: Jean Paul: Ist jede Sprache in Ruecksicht geistiger
Beziehungen ein Woerterbuch erblasster Metaphern. We regret this, while yet it is not wholly
matter of regret. Gerber (Sprache als Kunst, vol. i. p. 387) urges that language would be quite
unmanageable, that the words which we use would be continually clashing with and contradicting
one another, if every one of them retained a lively impress of the image on which it originally
rested, and recalled this to our mind. His words, somewhat too strongly put, are these: Fuer
den Usus der Sprache, fuer ihren Verstand und ihre Verstaendlichkeit ist allerdings das Erblassen
ihrer Lautbilder, so dass sie allmaehlig als blosse Zeichen fuer Begriffe fungiren, nothwendig.
Die Ueberzahl der Bilder wuerde, wenn sie alle als solche wirkten, nur verwirren und jede klarere
Auffassung, wie sie die praktischen Zwecke der Gegenwart fordern, unmoeglich machen. Die Bilder
wuerden ausserdem einander zum Theil zerstoeren, indem sie die Farben verschiedener Sphaeren
zusammenfliessenlassen, und damit fuer den Verstand nur Unsinn bedeuten.]

Sometimes, indeed, they have not faded at all. Thus at Naples it is the ordinary language to
call the lesser storm-waves 'pecore,' or sheep; the larger 'cavalloni,' or big horses. Who
that has watched the foaming crests, the white manes, as it were, of the larger billows as
they advance in measured order, and rank on rank, into the bay, but will own not merely the
fitness, but the grandeur, of this last image? Let me illustrate my meaning more at length
by the word 'tribulation.' We all know in a general way that this word, which occurs not seldom
in Scripture and in the Liturgy, means affliction, sorrow, anguish; but it is quite worth our
while to know how it means this, and to question 'tribulation' a little closer. It is derived
from the Latin 'tribulum,' which was the threshing instrument or harrow, whereby the Roman
husbandman separated the corn from the husks; and 'tribulatio' in its primary signification
was the act of this separation. But some Latin writer of the Christian Church appropriated
the word and image for the setting forth of a higher truth; and sorrow, distress, and adversity
being the appointed means for the separating in men of whatever in them was light, trivial,
and poor from the solid and the true, their chaff from their wheat, [Footnote: Triticum itself
may be connected with tero, tritus; [so Curtius, Greek Etym. No. 239].] he therefore called
these sorrows and trials 'tribulations,' threshings, that is, of the inner spiritual man, without
which there could be no fitting him for the heavenly garner. Now in proof of my assertion that
a single word is often a concentrated poem, a little grain of pure gold capable of being beaten
out into a broad extent of gold-leaf, I will quote, in reference to this very word 'tribulation,'
a graceful composition by George Wither, a prolific versifier, and occasionally a poet, of
the seventeenth century. You will at once perceive that it is all wrapped up in this word,
being from first to last only the explicit unfolding of the image and thought which this word
has implicitly given; it is as follows:--

     'Till from the straw the flail the corn doth beat,
      Until the chaff be purged from the wheat,
      Yea, till the mill the grains in pieces tear,
      The richness of the flour will scarce appear.
      So, till men's persons great afflictions touch,
      If worth be found, their worth is not so much,
      Because, like wheat in straw, they have not yet
      That value which in threshing they may get.
      For till the bruising flails of God's corrections
      Have threshed out of us our vain affections;
      Till those corruptions which do misbecome us
      Are by Thy sacred Spirit winnowed from us;
      Until from us the straw of worldly treasures,
      Till all the dusty chaff of empty pleasures,
      Yea, till His flail upon us He doth lay,
      To thresh the husk of this our flesh away;
      And leave the soul uncovered; nay, yet more,
      Till God shall make our very spirit poor,
      We shall not up to highest wealth aspire;
      But then we shall; and that is my desire.'

This deeper religious use of the word 'tribulation' was unknown to classical antiquity, belonging
exclusively to the Christian writers; and the fact that the same deepening and elevating of
the use of words recurs in a multitude of other, and many of them far more signal, instances,
is one well deserving to be followed up. Nothing, I am persuaded, would more mightily convince
us of the new power which Christianity proved in the world than to compare the meaning which
so many words possessed before its rise, and the deeper meaning which they obtained, so soon
as they were assumed as the vehicles of its life, the new thought and feeling enlarging, purifying,
and ennobling the very words which they employed. This is a subject which I shall have occasion
to touch on more than once in these lectures, but is itself well worthy of, as it would afford
ample material for, a volume.

On the suggestion of this word 'tribulation', I will quote two or three words from Coleridge,
bearing on the matter in hand. He has said, 'In order to get the full sense of a word, we should
first present to our minds the visual image that forms its primary meaning.' What admirable
counsel is here! If we would but accustom ourselves to the doing of this, what a vast increase
of precision and force would all the language which we speak, and which others speak to us,
obtain; how often would that which is now obscure at once become clear; how distinct the limits
and boundaries of that which is often now confused and confounded! It is difficult to measure
the amount of food for the imagination, as well as gains for the intellect, which the observing
of this single rule would afford us. Let me illustrate this by one or two examples. We say
of such a man that he is 'desultory.' Do we attach any very distinct meaning to the word? Perhaps
not. But get at the image on which 'desultory' rests; take the word to pieces; learn that it
is from 'desultor,' [Footnote: Lat. desultor is from desult-, the stem of desultus, past part,
of desilire, to leap down.] one who rides two or three horses at once, leaps from one to the
other, being never on the back of any one of them long; take, I say, the word thus to pieces,
and put it together again, and what a firm and vigorous grasp will you have now of its meaning!
A 'desultory' man is one who jumps from one study to another, and never continues for any length
of time in one. Again, you speak of a person as 'capricious,' or as full of 'caprices.' But
what exactly are caprices? 'Caprice' is from capra, a goat. [Footnote: The etymology of caprice
has not been discovered yet; the derivation from capra is unsatisfactory, as it does not account
for the latter part of the word.] If ever you have watched a goat, you will have observed how
sudden, how unexpected, how unaccountable, are the leaps and springs, now forward, now sideward,
now upward, in which it indulges. A 'caprice' then is a movement of the mind as unaccountable,
as little to be calculated on beforehand, as the springs and bounds of a goat. Is not the word
so understood a far more picturesque one than it was before? and is there not some real gain
in the vigour and vividness of impression which is in this way obtained? 'Pavaner' is the French
equivalent for our verb 'to strut,' 'fourmiller' for our verb 'to swarm.' But is it not a real
gain to know further that the one is to strut as the peacock does, the other to swarm as do
ants? There are at the same time, as must be freely owned, investigations, moral no less than
material, in which the nearer the words employed approach to an algebraic notation, and the
less disturbed or coloured they are by any reminiscences of the ultimate grounds on which they
rest, the better they are likely to fulfil the duties assigned to them; but these are exceptions.
[Footnote: A French writer, Adanson, in his Natural History of Senegal complains of the misleading
character which names so often have, and urges that the only safety is to give to things names
which have and can have no meaning at all. His words are worth quoting as a curiosity, if nothing
else: L'experience nous apprend, que la plupart des noms significatifs qu'on a voulu donner
a differens objets d'histoire naturelle, sont devenus faux a mesure qu'on a decouvert des qualites,
des proprietes nouvelles ou contraires a celles qui avaient fait donner ces noms: il faut donc,
pour se mettre a l'abri des contradictions, eviter les termes figures, et meme faire en sorte
qu'on ne puisse les rapporter a quelque etymologie, a fin que ceux, qui ont la fureur des etymologies,
ne soient pas tenus de leur attribuer une idee fausse. II en doit etre des noms, comme des
coups des jeux de hazard, qui n'ont pour l'ordinaire aucune liaison entre eux: ils seraient
d'autant meilleurs qu'ils seraient moins significatifs, moins relatifs a d'autres noms, ou
a des choses connues, par ce que l'idee ne se fixant qu'a un seul objet, le saisit beaucoup
plus nettement, que lorsqu'elle se lie avec d'autres objets qui y ont du rapport. There is
truth in what he says, but the remedy he proposes is worse than the disease.]

The poetry which has been embodied in the names of places, in those names which designate the
leading features of outward nature, promontories, mountains, capes, and the like, is very worthy
of being elicited and evoked anew, latent as it now has oftentimes become. Nowhere do we so
easily forget that names had once a peculiar fitness, which was the occasion of their giving.
Colour has often suggested the name, as in the well-known instance of our own 'Albion,'--'the
silver- coasted isle,' as Tennyson so beautifully has called it,--which had this name from
the white line of cliffs presented by it to those approaching it by the narrow seas. [Footnote:
The derivation of the name Albion has not been discovered yet; it is even uncertain whether
the word is Indo-European; see Rhys, Celtic Britain, p. 200.] 'Himalaya' is 'the abode of snow.'
Often, too, shape and configuiation are incorporated in the name, as in 'Trinacria' or 'the
three- promontoried land,' which was the Greek name of Sicily; in 'Drepanum' or 'the sickle,'
the name which a town on the north-west promontory of the island bore, from the sickle-shaped
tongue of land on which it was built. But more striking, as the embodiment of a poetical feeling,
is the modern name of the great southern peninsula of Greece. We are all aware that it is called
the 'Morea'; but we may not be so well aware from whence that name is derived. It had long
been the fashion among ancient geographers to compare the shape of this region to a platane
leaf; [Footnote: Strabo, viii. 2; Pliny, H.N. iv. 5; Agathemerus, I.i. p. 15; echein de omoion
schaema phullps platanan] and a glance at the map will show that the general outline of that
leaf, with its sharply- incised edges, justified the comparison. This, however, had remained
merely as a comparison; but at the shifting and changing of names, that went with the breaking
up of the old Greek and Roman civilization, the resemblance of this region to a leaf, not now
any longer a platane, but a mulberry leaf, appeared so strong, that it exchanged its classic
name of Peloponnesus for 'Morea' which embodied men's sense of this resemblance, morus being
a mulberry tree in Latin, and morea in Greek. This etymology of 'Morea' has been called in
question; [Footnote: By Fallmerayer, Gesck. der Halbinsel Morea, p. 240, sqq. The island of
Ceylon, known to the Greeks as Taprobane, and to Milton as well (P. L. iv. 75), owed this name
to a resemblance which in outline it bore to the leaf of the betel tree. [This is very doubtful.]]
but, as it seems to me, on no sufficient grounds. Deducing, as one objector does, 'Morea' from
a Slavonic word 'more,' the sea, he finds in this derivation a support for his favourite notion
that the modern population of Greece is not descended from the ancient, but consists in far
the larger proportion of intrusive Slavonic races. Two mountains near Dublin, which we, keeping
in the grocery line, have called the Great and the Little Sugarloaf, are named in Irish 'the
Golden Spears.'

In other ways also the names of places will oftentimes embody some poetical aspect under which
now or at some former period men learned to regard them. Oftentimes when discoverers come upon
a new land they will seize with a firm grasp of the imagination the most striking feature which
it presents to their eyes, and permanently embody this in a word. Thus the island of Madeira
is now, I believe, nearly bare of wood; but its sides were covered with forests at the time
when it was first discovered, and hence the name, 'madeira' in Portuguese having this meaning
of wood. [Footnote: [Port. madeira, 'wood,' is the same word as the Lat. materia.]] Some have
said that the first Spanish discoverers of Florida gave it this name from the rich carpeting
of flowers which, at the time when first their eyes beheld it, everywhere covered the soil.
[Footnote: The Spanish historian Herrera says that Juan Ponce de Leon, the discoverer of Florida,
gave that name to the country for two reasons: first, because it was a land of flowers, secondly,
because it was discovered by him on March 27, 1513, Easter Day, which festival was called by
the Spaniards, 'Pascua Florida,' or 'Pascua de Flores,' see Herrera's History, tr. by Stevens,
ii. p. 33, and the Discovery of Florida by R. Hakluyt, ed. by W. B. Rye for the Hakluyt Soc.,
1851, introd. p. x.; cp. Larousse (s.v.), and Pierer's Conversations Lexicon. It is stated
by some authorities that Florida was so called because it was discovered on Palm Sunday; this
is due to a mistaken inference from the names for that Sunday--Pascha Florum, Pascha Floridum
(Ducange), Pasque Fleurie (Cotgrave); see Dict. Geog. Univ., 1884, and Brockhaus.] Surely Florida,
as the name passes under our eye, or from our lips, is something more than it was before, when
we may thus think of it as the land of flowers. [Footnote: An Italian poet, Fazio degli Uberti,
tells us that Florence has its appellation from the same cause:

      Poiche era posta in un prato di fiori,
      Le denno il nome bello, oude s' ingloria.

It would be instructive to draw together a collection of etymologies which have been woven
into verse. These are so little felt to be alien to the spirit of poetry, that they exist in
large numbers, and often lend to the poem in which they find a place a charm and interest of
their own. Bozrah]; of 'Silvius,' Aen. vi. 763, 765; of 'Argiletum,' where he is certainly
wrong (Aen. viii. 345); of 'Latium,' with reference to Saturn having remained latent there
(Aen. viii. 322; of. Ovid, Fasti, i. 238); of 'Laurens' (Aen. vii. 63):

                   Latiumque vocari
     Maluit, his quoniam latuisset tutus in oris:

and again of 'Avernus' (=[Greek: aornos], Aen. vi. 243); being indeed in this anticipated by
Lucretius (vi. 741):

     quia sunt avibus contraria cunctis.

Ovid's taste is far from faultless, and his example cannot go for much;
but he is always a graceful versifier, and his Fasti swarms with
etymologies, correct and incorrect; as of 'Agonalis' (i. 322), of
'Aprilis' (iv. 89), of 'Augustus' (i. 609-614), of 'Februarius' (ii.
19-22), of 'hostia' (i. 336), of 'Janus' (i. 120-127), of 'Junius' (vi.
26), of 'Lemures' (v. 479-484), of 'Lucina' (ii. 449), of 'majestas' (v.
26), of 'Orion' (v. 535), of 'pecunia' (v. 280, 281), of 'senatus' (v.
64), of 'Sulmo'(iv. 79; cf. Silius Italicus, ix. 70); of 'Vesta' (vi.
299), of 'victima' (i. 335); of 'Trinacris' (iv. 420). He has them also
elsewhere, as of 'Tomi' (Trist. iii. 9, 33). Lucilius, in like manner,
gives us the etymology of 'iners':
     Ut perhibetur iners, ars in quo non erit ulla; Propertius (iv. 2,
3) of 'Vertumnus'; and Lucretius of 'Magnes' (vi. 909).]

The name of Port Natal also embodies a fact which must be of interest to its inhabitants, namely,
that this port was discovered on Christmas Day, the dies natalis of our Lord.

Then again what poetry is there, as indeed there ought to be, in the
names of flowers! I do not speak of those, the exquisite grace and
beauty of whose names is so forced on us that we cannot miss it, such
as 'Aaron's rod,' 'angel's eyes,' 'bloody warrior,' 'blue-bell, 'crown
imperial,' 'cuckoo-flower,' blossoming as this orchis does when the
cuckoo is first heard, [Footnote: In a catalogue of English Plant
Names I count thirty in which 'cuckoo' formed a component part.] 'eye-
bright,' 'forget-me-not,' 'gilt-cup' (a local name for the butter-cup,
drawn from the golden gloss of its petals), 'hearts-ease,' 'herb-of-
grace,' 'Jacob's ladder,' 'king-cup,' 'lady's fingers,' 'Lady's smock,'
'Lady's tresses,' 'larkspur,' 'Lent lily,' 'loose-strife,' 'love-in-
idleness,' 'Love lies bleeding,' 'maiden-blush,' 'maiden-hair,'
'meadow-sweet,' 'Our Lady's mantle,' 'Our Lady's slipper,' 'queen-of-
the-meadows,' 'reine-marguerite,' 'rosemary,' 'snow-flake,' 'Solomon's
seal,' 'star of Bethlehem,' 'sun-dew,' 'sweet Alison,' 'sweet Cicely,'
'sweet William,' 'Traveller's joy,' 'Venus' looking-glass,' 'Virgin's
bower,' and the like; but take 'daisy'; surely this charming little
English flower, which has stirred the peculiar affection of English
poets from Chaucer to Wordsworth, and received the tribute of their
song, [Footnote:
     'Fair fall that gentle flower,
      A golden tuft set in a silver crown,' as Brown exclaims, whose
singularly graceful Pastorals should not be suffered to fall
altogether to oblivion. In Ward's recent English Poets, vol. ii. p.
65, justice has been done to them, and to their rare beauty.] becomes
more charming yet, when we know, as Chaucer long ago has told us, that
'daisy' is day's eye, or in its early spelling 'daieseighe,' the eye of
day; these are his words:

     'That men by reson well it calle may
      The daisie, or elles the ye of day.'
            Chaucer, ed. Morris, vol. v. p. 281.

For only consider how much is implied here. To the sun in the heavens this name, eye of day,
was naturally first given, and those who transferred the title to our little field flower meant
no doubt to liken its inner yellow disk, or shield, to the great golden orb of the sun, and
the white florets which encircle this disk to the rays which the sun spreads on all sides around
him. What imagination was here, to suggest a comparison such as this, binding together as this
does the smallest and the greatest! what a travelling of the poet's eye, with the power which
is the privilege of that eye, from earth to heaven, and from heaven to earth, and of linking
both together. So too, call up before your mind's eye the 'lavish gold' of the drooping laburnum
when in flower, and you will recognize the poetry of the title, 'the golden rain,' which in
German it bears. 'Celandine' does not so clearly tell its own tale; and it is only when you
have followed up the [Greek: chelidonion], (swallow-wort), of which 'celandin' is the English
representative, that the word will yield up the poetry which is concealed in it.

And then again, what poetry is there often in the names of birds and beasts and fishes, and
indeed of all the animated world around us; how marvellously are these names adapted often
to bring out the most striking and characteristic features of the objects to which they are
given. Thus when the Romans became acquainted with the stately giraffe, long concealed from
them in the interior deserts of Africa, (which we learn from Pliny they first did in the shows
exhibited by Julius Caesar,) it was happily imagined to designate a creature combining, though
with infinitely more grace, something of the height and even the proportions of the camel with
the spotted skin of the pard, by a name which should incorporate both these its most prominent
features, [Footnote: Varro: Quod erat figura ut camelus, maculis ut panthera; and Horace (Ep.
ii. I, 196): Diversum confusa genus panthera camelo.] calling it the 'camelopard.' Nor can
we, I think, hesitate to accept that account as the true one, which describes the word as no
artificial creation of scientific naturalists, but as bursting extempore from the lips of the
common people, who after all are the truest namers, at the first moment when the novel creature
was presented to their gaze. 'Cerf-volant,' a name which the French have so happily given to
the horned scarabeus, the same which we somewhat less poetically call the 'stag-beetle,' is
another example of what may be effected with the old materials, by merely bringing them into
new and happy combinations.

You know the appearance of the lizard, and the star-like shape of the spots which are sown
over its back. Well, in Latin it is called 'stellio,' from stella, a star; just as the basilisk
had in Greek this name of 'little king' because of the shape as of a kingly crown which the
spots on its head might be made by the fancy to assume. Follow up the etymology of 'squirrel,'
and you will find that the graceful creature which bears this name has obtained it as being
wont to sit under the shadow of its own tail. [Footnote: [The word squirrel is a diminutive
of the Greek word for squirrel, [Greek: skiouros], literally 'shadow-tail.']] Need I remind
you of our 'goldfinch,' evidently so called from that bright patch of yellow on its wing; our
'kingfisher,' having its name from the royal beauty, the kingly splendour of the plumage with
which it is adorned? Some might ask why the stormy petrel, a bird which just skims and floats
on the topmost wave, should bear this name? No doubt we have here the French 'petrel,' or little
Peter, and the bird has in its name an allusion to the Apostle Peter, who at his Master's bidding
walked for a while on the unquiet surface of an agitated sea. The 'lady-bird' or 'lady-cow'
is prettily named, as indeed the whole legend about it is full of grace and fancy [Footnote:
[For other names for the 'lady-bird,' and the reference in many of them to God and the Virgin
Mary, see Grimm, Teutonic Mythology, p. 694.]]; but a common name which in many of our country
parts this creature bears, the 'golden knob,' is prettier still. And indeed in our country
dialects there is a wide poetical nomenclature which is well worthy of recognition; thus the
shooting lights of the Aurora Borealis are in Lancashire 'the Merry Dancers'; clouds piled
up in a particular fashion are in many parts of England styled 'Noah's Ark'; the puff-ball
is 'the Devil's snuff-box'; the dragon-fly 'the Devil's darning-needle'; a large black beetle
'the Devil's coach-horse.' Any one who has watched the kestrel hanging poised in the air, before
it swoops upon its prey, will acknowledge the felicity of the name 'windhover,' or sometimes
'windfanner,' which it popularly bears. [Footnote: In Wallace's Tropical Nature there is a
beautiful chapter on humming birds, and the names which in various languages these exquisite
little creatures bear.] The amount is very large of curious legendary lore which is everywhere
bound up in words, and which they, if duly solicited, will give back to us again. For example,
the Greek 'halcyon,' which we have adopted without change, has reference, and wraps up in itself
an allusion, to one of the most beautiful and significant legends of heathen antiquity; according
to which the sea preserved a perfect calmness for all the period, the fourteen 'halcyon days,'
during which this bird was brooding over her nest. The poetry of the name survives, whether
the name suggested the legend, or the legend the name. Take again the names of some of our
precious stones, as of the topaz, so called, as some said, because men were only able to conjecture
([Greek: topazein]) the position of the cloud-concealed island from which it was brought. [Footnote:
Pliny, H. N. xxxvii. 32. [But this is only popular etymology: the word can hardly be of Greek
origin; see A. S. Palmer, Folk-Etymology, p. 589.]]

Very curious is the determination which some words, indeed many, seem to manifest, that their
poetry shall not die; or, if it dies in one form, that it shall revive in another. Thus if
there is danger that, transferred from one language to another, they shall no longer speak
to the imagination of men as they did of old, they will make to themselves a new life, they
will acquire a new soul in the room of that which has ceased to quicken and inform them any
more. Let me make clear what I mean by two or three examples. The Germans, knowing nothing
of carbuncles, had naturally no word of their own for them; and when they first found it necessary
to name them, as naturally borrowed the Latin 'carbunculus,' which originally had meant 'a
little live coal,' to designate these precious stones of a fiery red. But 'carbunculus,' word
full of poetry and life for Latin-speaking men, would have been only an arbitrary sign for
as many as were ignorant of that language. What then did these, or what, rather, did the working
genius of the language, do? It adopted, but, in adopting, modified slightly yet effectually
the word, changing it into 'Karfunkel,' thus retaining the framework of the original, yet at
the same time, inasmuch as 'funkeln' signifies 'to sparkle,' reproducing now in an entirely
novel manner the image of the bright sparkling of the stone, for every knower of the German
tongue. 'Margarita,' or pearl, belongs to the earliest group of Latin words adopted into English.
The word, however, told nothing about itself to those who adopted it. But the pearl might be
poetically contemplated as the sea-stone; and so our fathers presently transformed 'margarita'
into 'mere-grot,' which means nothing less. [Footnote: Such is the A.S. form of margarita in
three versions of the parable of the Pearl of Great Price, St. Matt. xiii. 45; see Anglo-Saxon
Gospels, ed. Skeat, 1887.] Take another illustration of this from another quarter. The French
'rossignol,' a nightingale, is undoubtedly the Latin 'lusciniola,' the diminutive of 'luscinia,'
with the alteration, so frequent in the Romance languages, of the commencing 'l' into 'r.'
Whatever may be the etymology of 'luscinia,' it is plain that for Frenchmen in general the
word would no longer suggest any meaning at all, hardly even for French scholars, after the
serious transformations which it had undergone; while yet, at the same time, in the exquisitely
musical 'rossignol,' and still more perhaps in the Italian 'usignuolo,' there is an evident
intention and endeavour to express something of the music of the bird's song in the liquid
melody of the imitative name which it bears; and thus to put a new soul into the word, in lieu
of that other which had escaped. Or again--whatever may be the meaning of Senlac, the name
of that field where the ever-memorable battle, now better known as the Battle of Hastings,
was fought, it certainly was not 'Sanglac,' or Lake of Blood; the word only shaping itself
into this significant form subsequently to the battle, and in consequence of it.

One or two examples more of the perishing of the old life in a word, and the birth of a new
in its stead, may be added. The old name of Athens, 'Athaevai,' was closely linked with the
fact that the goddess Pallas Athene was the guardian deity of the city. The reason of the name,
with other facts of the old mythology, faded away from the memory of the peasantry of modern
Greece; but Athens is a name which must still mean something for them. Accordingly it is not
'Athaevai now, but 'Avthaevai, or the Blooming, on the lips of the peasantry round about; so
Mr. Sayce assures us. The same process everywhere meets us. Thus no one who has visited Lucerne
can fail to remember the rugged mountain called 'Pilatus' or 'Mont Pilate,' which stands opposite
to him; while if he has been among the few who have cared to climb it, he will have been shown
by his guide the lake at its summit in which Pontius Pilate in his despair drowned himself,
with an assurance that from this suicide of his the mountain obtained its name. Nothing of
the kind. 'Mont Pilate' stands for 'Mons Pileatus,' the 'capped hill'; the clouds, as one so
often sees, gathering round its summit, and forming the shape or appearance of a cap or hat.
When this true derivation was forgotten or misunderstood, the other explanation was invented
and imposed. [Footnote: [The old name of Pilatus was Fractus Mons, 'broken mountain' from its
rugged cliffs and precipices. Pilatus did not become general till the close of the last century.]]
An instructive example this, let me observe by the way, of that which has happened continually
in the case of far older legends; I mean that the name has suggested the legend, and not the
legend the name. We have an apt illustration of this in the old notion that the crocodile ([Greek:
krokodeilos]) could not endure saffron.

I have said that poetry and imagination seek to penetrate everywhere; and this is literally
true; for even the hardest, austerest studies cannot escape their influence; they will put
something of their own life into the dry bones of a nomenclature which seems the remotest from
them, the most opposed to them. Thus in Danish the male and female lines of descent and inheritance
are called respectively the sword-side and the spindle-side. [Footnote: [In the same way the
Germans used to employ schwert and kunkel; compare the use of the phrases on etha sperehealfe,
and on etha spinlhealfe in King Alfred's will; see Kemble, Codex Diplomaticus, No. 314 (ii.
116), Pauli's Life of Alfred, p. 225, Lappenberg's Anglo-Saxon Kings, ii. 99 (1881).]] He who
in prosody called a metrical foot consisting of one long syllable followed by two short (-..)
a 'dactyle' or a finger, with allusion to the long first joint of the finger, and the two shorter
which follow, whoever he may have been, and some one was the first to do it, must be allowed
to have brought a certain amount of imagination into a study so alien to it as prosody very
well might appear.

He did the same in another not very poetical region who invented the Latin law-term, 'stellionatus.'
The word includes all such legally punishable acts of swindling or injurious fraud committed
on the property of another as are not specified in any more precise enactment; being drawn
and derived from a practice attributed, I suppose without any foundation, to the lizard or
'stellio' we spoke of just now. Having cast its winter skin, it is reported to swallow it at
once, and this out of a malignant grudge lest any should profit by that which, if not now,
was of old accounted a specific in certain diseases. The term was then transferred to any malicious
wrong whatever done by one person to another.

In other regions it was only to be expected that we should find poetry. Thus it is nothing
strange that architecture, which has been called frozen music, and which is poetry embodied
in material forms, should have a language of its own, not dry nor hard, not of the mere intellect
alone, but one in the forming of which it is evident that the imaginative faculties were at
work. To take only one example--this, however, from Gothic art, which naturally yields the
most remarkable-- what exquisite poetry in the name of 'the rose window' or better still, 'the
rose,' given to the rich circular aperture of stained glass, with its leaf-like compartments,
in the transepts of a Gothic cathedral! Here indeed we may note an exception from that which
usually finds place; for usually art borrows beauty from nature, and very faintly, if at all,
reflects back beauty upon her. In this present instance, however, art is so beautiful, has
reached so glorious and perfect a development, that if the associations which the rose supplies
lend to that window some hues of beauty and a glory which otherwise it would not have, the
latter abundantly repays the obligation; and even the rose itself may become lovelier still,
associated with those shapes of grace, those rich gorgeous tints, and all the religious symbolism
of that in art which has borrowed and bears its name. After this it were little to note the
imagination, although that was most real, which dictated the term 'flamboyant' to express the
wavy flame-like outline, which, at a particular period of art, the tracery in the Gothic window
assumed.

'Godsacre' or 'Godsfield,' is the German name for a burial-ground, and once was our own, though
we unfortunately have nearly, if not quite, let it go. What a hope full of immortality does
this little word proclaim! how rich is it in all the highest elements of poetry, and of poetry
in its noblest alliance, that is, in its alliance with faith-- able as it is to cause all loathsome
images of death and decay to disappear, not denying them, but suspending, losing, absorbing
them in the sublimer thought of the victory over death, of that harvest of life which God shall
one day so gloriously reap even there where now seems the very triumphing place of death. Many
will not need to be reminded how fine a poem in Longfellow's hands unfolds itself out of this word.

Lastly let me note the pathos of poetry which lies often in the mere tracing of the succession
of changes in meaning which certain words have undergone. Thus 'elend' in German, a beautiful
word, now signifies wretchedness, but at first it signified exile or banishment. [Footnote:
On this word there is an interesting discussion in Weigand's Etym. Dict., and compare Pott,
Etym. Forsch. i. 302. Ellinge, an English provincial word of infinite pathos, still common
in the south of England, and signifying at once lonely and sad, is not connected, as has been
sometimes supposed, with the German elend, but represents Anglo-Saxon ae-lenge, protracted,
tedious; see the New English Dictionary (s.v. alange)] The sense of this separation from the
native land and from all home delights, as being the woe of all woes, the crown of all sorrows,
little by little so penetrated the word, that what at first expressed only one form of misery,
has ended by signifying all. It is not a little notable, as showing the same feeling elsewhere
at work, that 'essil' (= exilium) in old French signified, not only banishment, but ruin, destruction,
misery. In the same manner [Greek: nostimos] meaning at first no more than having to do with
a return, comes in the end to signify almost anything which is favourable and auspicious.

Let us then acknowledge man a born poet; if not every man himself a 'maker' yet every one able
to rejoice in what others have made, adopting it freely, moving gladly in it as his own most
congenial element and sphere. For indeed, as man does not live by bread alone, as little is
he content to find in language merely the instrument which shall enable him to buy and sell
and get gain, or otherwise make provision for the lower necessities of his animal life. He
demands to find in it as well what shall stand in a real relation and correspondence to the
higher faculties of his being, shall feed, nourish, and sustain these, shall stir him with
images of beauty and suggestions of greatness. Neither here nor anywhere else could he become
the mere utilitarian, even if he would. Despite his utmost efforts, were he so far at enmity
with his own good as to put them forth, he could not succeed in exhausting his language of
the poetical element with which it is penetrated through and through; he could not succeed
in stripping it of blossom, flower, and fruit, and leaving it nothing but a bare and naked
stem. He may fancy for a moment that he has succeeded in doing this; but it will only need
for him to become a little better philologer, to go a little deeper into the story of the words
which he is using, and he will discover that he is as remote as ever from such an unhappy consummation,
from so disastrous a success.

For ourselves, let us desire and attempt nothing of the kind. Our life is not in other ways
so full of imagination and poetry that we need give any diligence to empty it of that which
it may possess of these. It will always have for us all enough of dull and prosaic and commonplace.
What profit can there be in seeking to extend the region of these? Profit there will be none,
but on the contrary infinite loss. It is stagnant waters which corrupt themselves; not those
in agitation and on which the winds are freely blowing. Words of passion and imagination are,
as one so grandly called them of old, 'winds of the soul' ([Greek: psyches anemoi]), to keep
it in healthful motion and agitation, to lift it upward and to drive it onward, to preserve
it from that unwholesome stagnation which constitutes the fatal preparedness for so many other
and worse evils.

LECTURE III.

ON THE MORALITY IN WORDS.

Is man of a divine birth and of the stock of heaven? coming from God, and, when he fulfils
the law of his being, and the intention of his creation, returning to Him again? We need no
more than the words he speaks to prove it; so much is there in them which could never have
existed on any other supposition. How else could all those words which testify of his relation
to God, and of his consciousness of this relation, and which ground themselves thereon, have
found their way into his language, being as that is the veritable transcript of his innermost
life, the genuine utterance of the faith and hope which is in him? In what other way can we
explain that vast and preponderating weight thrown into the scale of goodness and truth, which,
despite of all in the other scale, we must thankfully acknowledge that his language never is
without? How else shall we account for that sympathy with the right, that testimony against
the wrong, which, despite of all aberrations and perversions, is yet the prevailing ground-tone
of all?

But has man fallen, and deeply fallen, from the heights of his original creation? We need no
more than his language to prove it. Like everything else about him, it bears at once the stamp
of his greatness and of his degradation, of his glory and of his shame. What dark and sombre
threads he must have woven into the tissue of his life, before we could trace those threads
of darkness which run through the tissue of his language! What facts of wickedness and woe
must have existed in the one, ere such words could exist to designate these as are found in
the other! There have never wanted those who would make light of the moral hurts which man
has inflicted on himself, of the sickness with which he is sick; who would persuade themselves
and others that moralists and divines, if they have not quite invented, have yet enormously
exaggerated, these. But are statements of the depth of his fall, the malignity of the disease
with which he is sick, found only in Scripture and in sermons? Are those who bring forward
these statements libellers of human nature? Or are not mournful corroborations of the truth
of these assertions imprinted deeply upon every province of man's natural and spiritual life,
and on none more deeply than on his language? It needs but to open a dictionary, and to cast
our eye thoughtfully down a few columns, and we shall find abundant confirmation of this sadder
and sterner estimate of man's moral and spiritual condition. How else shall we explain this
long catalogue of words, having all to do with sin or with sorrow, or with both? How came they
there? We may be quite sure that they were not invented without being needed, and they have
each a correlative in the world of realities. I open the first letter of the alphabet; what
means this 'Ah,' this 'Alas,' these deep and long-drawn sighs of humanity, which at once encounter
me there? And then presently there meet me such words as these, 'Affliction,' 'Agony,' 'Anguish,'
'Assassin,' 'Atheist,' 'Avarice,' and a hundred more--words, you will observe, not laid up
in the recesses of the language, to be drawn forth on rare occasions, but many of them such
as must be continually on the lips of men. And indeed, in the matter of abundance, it is sad
to note how much richer our vocabularies are in words that set forth sins, than in those that
set forth graces. When St. Paul (Gal. v. 19-23) would range these over against those, 'the
works of the flesh' against 'the fruit of the Spirit,' those are seventeen, these only nine;
and where do we find in Scripture such lists of graces, as we do at 2 Tim. iii. 2, Rom. i.
29- 31, of their contraries? [Footnote: Of these last the most exhaustive collection which
I know is in Philo, De Merced. Meret. Section 4. There are here one hundred and forty-six epithets
brought together, each of them indicating a sinful moral habit of mind. It was not without
reason that Aristotle wrote: 'It is possible to err in many ways, for evil belongs to the infinite;
but to do right is possible only in one way' (Ethic. Nic. ii. 6. 14).] Nor can I help noting,
in the oversight and muster from this point of view of the words which constitute a language,
the manner in which its utmost resources have been taxed to express the infinite varieties,
now of human suffering, now of human sin. Thus, what a fearful thing is it that any language
should possess a word to express the pleasure which men feel at the calamities of others; for
the existence of the word bears testimony to the existence of the thing. And yet such in more
languages than one may be found. [Footnote: In the Greek, [Greek: epichairekakia], in the German,
'schadenfreude.' Cicero so strongly feels the want of such a word, that he gives to 'malevolentia'
the significance, 'voluptas ex malo alterius,' which lies not of necessity in it.] Nor are
there wanting, I suppose, in any language, words which are the mournful record of the strange
wickednesses which the genius of man, so fertile in evil, has invented. What whole processes
of cruelty are sometimes wrapped up in a single word! Thus I have not travelled down the first
column of an Italian dictionary before I light upon the verb 'abbacinare' meaning to deprive
of sight by holding a red-hot metal basin close to the eyeballs. Travelling a little further
in a Greek lexicon, I should reach [Greek: akroteriazein] mutilate by cutting off all the extremities,
as hands, feet, nose, ears; or take our English 'to ganch.' And our dictionaries, while they
tell us much, cannot tell us all. How shamefully rich is everywhere the language of the vulgar
in words and phrases which, seldom allowed to find their way into books, yet live as a sinful
oral tradition on the lips of men, for the setting forth of things unholy and impure. And of
these words, as no less of those dealing with the kindred sins of revelling and excess, how
many set the evil forth with an evident sympathy and approbation of it, and as themselves taking
part with the sin against Him who has forbidden it under pain of his highest displeasure. How
much ability, how much wit, yes, and how much imagination must have stood in the service of
sin, before it could possess a nomenclature so rich, so varied, and often so heaven-defying,
as that which it actually owns.

Then further I would bid you to note the many words which men have dragged downward with themselves,
and made more or less partakers of their own fall. Having once an honourable meaning, they
have yet with the deterioration and degeneration of those that used them, or of those about
whom they were used, deteriorated and degenerated too. How many, harmless once, have assumed
a harmful as their secondary meaning; how many worthy have acquired an unworthy. Thus 'knave'
meant once no more than lad (nor does 'knabe' now in German mean more); 'villain' than peasant;
a 'boor' was a farmer, a 'varlet' a serving-man, which meaning still survives in 'valet,' the
other form of this word; [Footnote: Yet this itself was an immense fall for the word (see Ampere,
La Langue Francaise, p. 219, and Littre, Dict. de la Langue Francaise, preface, p. xxv.).]
a 'menial' was one of the household; a 'paramour' was a lover, an honourable one it might be;
a 'leman' in like manner might be a lover, and be used of either sex in a good sense; a 'beldam'
was a fair lady, and is used in this sense by Spenser; [Footnote: F. Q. iii. 2. 43.] a 'minion'
was a favourite (man in Sylvester is 'God's dearest minion'); a 'pedant' in the Italian from
which we borrowed the word, and for a while too with ourselves, was simply a tutor; a 'proser'
was one who wrote in prose; an 'adventurer' one who set before himself perilous, but very often
noble ventures, what the Germans call a gluecksritter; a 'swindler,' in the German from which
we got it, one who entered into dangerous mercantile speculations, without implying that this
was done with any intention to defraud others. Christ, according to Bishop Hall, was the 'ringleader'
of our salvation. 'Time-server' two hundred years ago quite as often designated one in an honourable
as in a dishonourable sense 'serving the time.' [Footnote: See in proof Fuller, Holy State,
b. iii. c. 19.] 'Conceits' had once nothing conceited in them. An 'officious' man was one prompt
in offices of kindness, and not, as now, an uninvited meddler in things that concern him not;
something indeed of the older meaning still survives in the diplomatic use of the word.

'Demure' conveyed no hint, as it does now, of an overdoing of the outward demonstrations of
modesty; a 'leer' was once a look with nothing amiss in it (Piers Plowman). 'Daft' was modest
or retiring; 'orgies' were religious ceremonies; the Blessed Virgin speaks of herself in an
early poem as 'God's wench.' In 'crafty' and 'cunning' no crooked wisdom was implied, but only
knowledge and skill; 'craft,' indeed, still retains very often its more honourable use, a man's
'craft' being his skill, and then the trade in which he is skilled. 'Artful' was skilful, and
not tricky as now. [Footnote: Not otherwise 'leichtsinnig' in German meant cheerful once; it
is frivolous now; while in French a 'rapporteur' is now a bringer back of malicious reports,
the malicious having little by little found its way into the word.] Could the Magdalen have
ever bequeathed us 'maudlin' in its present contemptuous application, if the tears of penitential
sorrow had been held in due honour by the world? 'Tinsel,' the French 'etincelle,' meant once
anything that sparkled or glistened; thus, 'cloth of tinsel' would be cloth inwrought with
silver and gold; but the sad experience that 'all is not gold that glitters, that much showing
fair to the eye is worthless in reality, has caused that by 'tinsel,' literal or figurative,
we ever mean now that which has no realities of sterling worth underlying the specious shows
which it makes. 'Specious' itself, let me note, meant beautiful at one time, and not, as now,
presenting a deceitful appearance of beauty. 'Tawdry,' an epithet applied once to lace or other
finery bought at the fair of St. Awdrey or St. Etheldreda, has run through the same course:
it at one time conveyed no suggestion of mean finery or shabby splendour, as now it does. 'Voluble'
was an epithet which had nothing of slight in it, but meant what 'fluent' means now; 'dapper'
was what in German 'tapfer' is; not so much neat and spruce as brave and bold; 'plausible'
was worthy of applause; 'pert' is now brisk and lively, but with a very distinct subaudition,
which once it had not, of sauciness as well; 'lewd' meant no more than unlearned, as the lay
or common people might be supposed to be. [Footnote: Having in mind what 'dirne,' connected
with 'dienen,' 'dienst,' commonly means now in German, one almost shrinks from mentioning that
it was once a name of honour which could be and was used of the Blessed Virgin Mary (see Grimm,
Woerterbuch, s. v.). 'Schalk' in like manner had no evil subaudition in it at the first; nor
did it ever obtain such during the time that it survived in English; thus in Sir Gawayne and
the Green Knight, the peerless Gawayne is himself on more than one a 'schalk' (424, 1776).
The word survives in the last syllable of 'seneschal,' and indeed of 'marshal' as well.] 'To
carp' is in Chaucer's language no more than to converse; 'to mouth' in Piers Plowman is simply
to speak; 'to garble' was once to sift and pick out the best; it is now to select and put forward
as a fair specimen the worst.

This same deterioration through use may be traced in the verb 'to resent.' Barrow could speak
of the good man as a faithful 'resenter' and requiter of benefits, of the duty of testifying
an affectionate 'resentment' of our obligations to God. But the memory of benefits fades from
us so much more quickly than that of injuries; we remember and revolve in our minds so much
more predominantly the wrongs, real or imaginary, men have done us, than the favours we owe
them, that 'resentment' has come in our modern English to be confined exclusively to that deep
reflective displeasure which men entertain against those that have done, or whom they fancy
to have done, them a wrong. And this explains how it comes to pass that we do not speak of
the 'retaliation' of benefits at all so often as the 'retaliation' of injuries. 'To retaliate'
signifies no more than to render again as much as we have received; but this is so much seldomer
practised in the matter of benefits than of wrongs, that 'retaliation' though not wholly strange
in this worthier sense, has yet, when so employed, an unusual sound in our ears. 'To retaliate'
kindnesses is a language which would not now be intelligible to all. 'Animosity' as originally
employed in that later Latin which gave it birth, was spiritedness; men would speak of the
'animosity' or fiery courage of a horse. In our early English it meant nothing more; a divine
of the seventeenth century speaks of 'due Christian animosity.' Activity and vigour are still
implied in the word; but now only as displayed in enmity and hate. There is a Spanish proverb
which says, 'One foe is too many; a hundred friends are too few.' The proverb and the course
which this word 'animosity' has travelled may be made mutually to illustrate one another. [Footnote:
For quotations from our earlier authors in proof of many of the assertions made in the few
last pages, see my Select Glossary of English Words used formerly in senses different from
their present, 5th edit. 1879.]

How mournful a witness for the hard and unrighteous judgments we habitually form of one another
lies in the word 'prejudice.' It is itself absolutely neutral, meaning no more than a judgment
formed beforehand; which judgment may be favourable, or may be otherwise. Yet so predominantly
do we form harsh unfavourable judgments of others before knowledge and experience, that a 'prejudice'
or judgment before knowledge and not grounded on evidence, is almost always taken in an ill
sense; 'prejudicial' having actually acquired mischievous or injurious for its secondary meaning.

As these words bear testimony to the sin of man, so others to his infirmity, to the limitation
of human faculties and human knowledge, to the truth of the proverb, that 'to err is human.'
Thus 'to retract' means properly no more than to handle again, to reconsider. And yet, so certain
are we to find in a subject which we reconsider, or handle a second time, that which was at
first rashly, imperfectly, inaccurately, stated, which needs therefore to be amended, modified,
or withdrawn, that 'to retract' could not tarry long in its primary meaning of reconsidering;
but has come to signify to withdraw. Thus the greatest Father of the Latin Church, wishing
toward the close of his life to amend whatever he might then perceive in his various published
works incautiously or incorrectly stated, gave to the book in which he carried out this intention
(for authors had then no such opportunities as later editions afford us now), this very name
of 'Retractations', being literally 'rehandlings,' but in fact, as will be plain to any one
turning to the work, withdrawings of various statements by which he was no longer prepared
to abide.

But urging, as I just now did, the degeneration of words, I should seriously err, if I failed
to remind you that a parallel process of purifying and ennobling has also been going forward,
most of all through the influences of a Divine faith working in the world. This, as it has
turned men from evil to good, or has lifted them from a lower earthly goodness to a higher
heavenly, so has it in like manner elevated, purified, and ennobled a multitude of the words
which they employ, until these, which once expressed only an earthly good, express now a heavenly.
The Gospel of Christ, as it is the redemption of man, so is it in a multitude of instances
the redemption of his word, freeing it from the bondage of corruption, that it should no longer
be subject to vanity, nor stand any more in the service of sin or of the world, but in the
service of God and of his truth. Thus the Greek had a word for 'humility'; but for him this
humility meant--that is, with rare exceptions--meanness of spirit. He who brought in the Christian
grace of humility, did in so doing rescue the term which expressed it for nobler uses and a
far higher dignity than hitherto it had attained. There were 'angels' before heaven had been
opened, but these only earthly messengers; 'martyrs' also, or witnesses, but these not unto
blood, nor yet for God's highest truth; 'apostles,' but sent of men; 'evangels,' but these
good tidings of this world, and not of the kingdom of heaven; 'advocates,' but not 'with the
Father.' 'Paradise' was a word common in slightly different forms to almost all the nations
of the East; but it was for them only some royal park or garden of delights; till for the Jew
it was exalted to signify the mysterious abode of our first parents; while higher honours awaited
it still, when on the lips of the Lord, it signified the blissful waiting-place of faithful
departed souls (Luke xxiii. 43); yea, the heavenly blessedness itself (Rev. ii. 7). A 'regeneration'
or palingenesy, was not unknown to the Greeks; they could speak of the earth's 'regeneration'
in spring-time, of recollection as the 'regeneration' of knowledge; the Jewish historian could
describe the return of his countrymen from the Babylonian Captivity, and their re-establishment
in their own land, as the 'regeneration' of the Jewish State. But still the word, whether as
employed by Jew or Greek, was a long way off from that honour reserved for it in the Christian
dispensation--namely, that it should be the vehicle of one of the most blessed mysteries of
the faith. [Footnote: See my Synonyms of the N.T. Section 18.] And many other words in like
manner there are, 'fetched from the very dregs of paganism,' as Sanderson has it (he instances
the Latin 'sacrament,' the Greek 'mystery'), which the Holy Spirit has not refused to employ
for the setting forth of the glorious facts of our redemption; and, reversing the impious deed
of Belshazzar, who profaned the sacred vessels of God's house to sinful and idolatrous uses
(Dan. v. 2), has consecrated the very idol-vessels of Babylon to the service of the sanctuary.
And first, the attestations to God's truth, the fallings in of our words with his unchangeable
Word; for these, as the true uses of the word, while the other are only its abuses, have a
prior claim to be considered.

Thus, some modern 'false prophets,' willing to explain away all such phenomena of the world
around us as declare man to be a sinner, and lying under the consequences of sin, would fain
have them to believe that pain is only a subordinate kind of pleasure, or, at worst, a sort
of needful hedge and guardian of pleasure. But a deeper feeling in the universal heart of man
bears witness to quite another explanation of the existence of pain in the present economy
of the world--namely, that it is the correlative of sin, that it is punishment; and to this
the word 'pain,' so closely connected with 'poena,' bears witness. [Footnote: Our word pain
is actually the same word as the Latin poena, coming to us through the French peine.] Pain
is punishment; for so the word, and so the conscience of every one that is suffering it, declares.
Some will not hear of great pestilences being scourges of the sins of men; and if only they
can find out the immediate, imagine that they have found out the ultimate, causes of these;
while yet they have only to speak of a 'plague' and they implicitly avouch the very truth which
they have set themselves to deny; for a 'plague,' what is it but a stroke; so called, because
that universal conscience of men which is never at fault, has felt and in this way confessed
it to be such? For here, as in so many other cases, that proverb stands fast, 'Vox populi,
vox Dei'; and may be admitted to the full; that is, if only we keep in mind that this 'people'
is not the populace either in high place or in low; and this 'voice of the people' no momentary
outcry, but the consenting testimony of the good and wise, of those neither brutalized by ignorance,
nor corrupted by a false cultivation, in many places and in various times.

To one who admits the truth of this proverb it will be nothing strange that men should have
agreed to call him a 'miser' or miserable, who eagerly scrapes together and painfully hoards
the mammon of this world. Here too the moral instinct lying deep in all hearts has borne testimony
to the tormenting nature of this vice, to the gnawing pains with which even in this present
time it punishes its votaries, to the enmity which there is between it and all joy; and the
man who enslaves himself to his money is proclaimed in our very language to be a 'miser,' or
miserable man. [Footnote: 'Misery' does not any longer signify avarice, nor 'miserable' avaricious;
but these meanings they once possessed (see my Select Glossary, s. vv.). In them men said,
and in 'miser' we still say, in one word what Seneca when he wrote,-- 'Nulla avaritia sine
poena est, quamvis satis sit ipsa poenarum'-- took a sentence to say.] Other words bear testimony
to great moral truths. St. James has, I doubt not, been often charged with exaggeration for
saying, 'Whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all'
(ii. 10). The charge is an unjust one. The Romans with their 'integritas' said as much; we
too say the same who have adopted 'integrity' as a part of our ethical language. For what is
'integrity' but entireness; the 'integrity' of the body being, as Cicero explains it, the full
possession and the perfect soundness of all its members; and moral 'integrity' though it cannot
be predicated so absolutely of any sinful child of Adam, is this same entireness or completeness
transferred to things higher. 'Integrity' was exactly that which Herod had not attained, when
at the Baptist's bidding he 'did many things gladly' (Mark vi. 20), but did not put away his
brother's wife; whose partial obedience therefore profited nothing; he had dropped one link
in the golden chain of obedience, and as a consequence the whole chain fell to the ground.

It is very noticeable, and many have noticed, that the Greek word signifying wickedness (ponaeria)
comes of another signifying labour (ponos). How well does this agree with those passages in
Scripture which describe sinners as 'wearying themselves to commit iniquity,' as 'labouring
in the very fire'; 'the martyrs of the devil,' as South calls them, being at more pains to
go to hell than the martyrs of God to go to heaven. 'St. Chrysostom's eloquence,' as Bishop
Sanderson has observed, 'enlarges itself and triumphs in this argument more frequently than
in almost any other; and he clears it often and beyond all exception, both by Scripture and
reason, that the life of a wicked or worldly man is a very drudgery, infinitely more toilsome,
vexatious, and unpleasant than a godly life is.' [Footnote: Sermons, London, 1671, vol. ii.
p. 244.]

How deep an insight into the failings of the human heart lies at the root of many words; and
if only we would attend to them, what valuable warnings many contain against subtle temptations
and sins! Thus, all of us have felt the temptation of seeking to please others by an unmanly
assenting to their opinion, even when our own independent convictions did not agree with theirs.
The existence of such a temptation, and the fact that too many yield to it, are both declared
in the Latin for a flatterer--'assentator'--that is, 'an assenter'; one who has not courage
to say No, when a Yes is expected from him; and quite independently of the Latin, the German,
in its contemptuous and precisely equivalent use of 'Jaherr,' a 'yea-Lord,' warns us in like
manner against all such unmanly compliances. Let me note that we also once possessed 'assentation'
in the sense of unworthy flattering lip- assent; the last example of it in our dictionaries
is from Bishop Hall: 'It is a fearful presage of ruin when the prophets conspire in assentation;'
but it lived on to a far later day, being found and exactly in the same sense in Lord Chesterfield's
Letters to his son; he there speaks of 'abject flattery and indiscriminate assentation.' [Footnote:
August 10, 1749. [In the New English Dictionary a quotation for the word is given as late as
1859. I. Taylor, in his Logic in Theology, p. 265, says: 'A safer anchorage may be found than
the shoal of mindless assentation']] The word is well worthy to be revived.

Again, how well it is to have that spirit of depreciation, that eagerness to find spots and
stains in the characters of the noblest and the best, who would otherwise oppress and rebuke
us with a goodness and a greatness so immensely superior to our own,--met and checked by a
word at once so expressive, and so little pleasant to take home to ourselves, as the French
'denigreur,' a 'blackener.' This also has fallen out of use; which is a pity, seeing that the
race which it designates is so far from being extinct. Full too of instruction and warning
is our present employment of 'libertine.' A 'libertine,' in earlier use, was a speculative
free-thinker in matters of religion and in the theory of morals. But as by a process which
is seldom missed free-thinking does and will end in free-acting, he who has cast off one yoke
also casting off the other, so a 'libertine' came in two or three generations to signify a
profligate, especially in relation to women, a licentious and debauched person. [Footnote:
See the author's Select Glossary (s.v.)]

Look a little closely at the word 'passion,' We sometimes regard a 'passionate' man as a man
of strong will, and of real, though ungoverned, energy. But 'passion' teaches us quite another
lesson; for it, as a very solemn use of it declares, means properly 'suffering'; and a 'passionate'
man is not one who is doing something, but one suffering something to be done to him. When
then a man or child is 'in a passion,' this is no outcoming in him of a strong will, of a real
energy, but the proof rather that, for the time at least, he is altogether wanting in these;
he is suffering, not doing; suffering his anger, or whatever evil temper it may be, to lord
over him without control. Let no one then think of 'passion' as a sign of strength. One might
with as much justice conclude a man strong because he was often well beaten; this would prove
that a strong man was putting forth his strength on him, but certainly not that he was himself
strong. The same sense of 'passion' and feebleness going together, of the first as the outcome
of the second, lies, I may remark by the way, in the twofold use of 'impotens' in the Latin,
which meaning first weak, means then violent, and then weak and violent together. For a long
time 'impotent' and 'impotence' in English embodied the same twofold meaning.

Or meditate on the use of 'humanitas,' and the use (in Scotland at least) of the 'humanities,'
to designate those studies which are esteemed the fittest for training the true humanity in
every man. [Footnote: [Compare the use of the term Litterae Humaniores in the University of
Oxford to designate the oldest and most characteristic of her examinations or 'Schools.']]
We have happily overlived in England the time when it was still in debate among us whether
education is a good thing for every living soul or not; the only question which now seriously
divides Englishmen being, in what manner that mental and moral training, which is society's
debt to each one of its members, may be most effectually imparted to him. Were it not so, were
there any still found to affirm that it was good for any man to be left with powers not called
out and faculties untrained, we might appeal to this word 'humanitas,' and the use to which
the Roman put it, in proof that he at least was not of this mind. By 'humanitas' he intended
the fullest and most harmonious development of all the truly human faculties and powers. Then,
and then only, man was truly man, when he received this; in so far as he did not receive this,
his 'humanity' was maimed and imperfect; he fell short of his ideal, of that which he was created
to be.

In our use of 'talents,' as when we say 'a man of talents,' there is a clear recognition of
the responsibilities which go along with the possession of intellectual gifts and endowments,
whatever these may be. We owe our later use of 'talent' to the parable (Matt. xxv. 14), in
which more or fewer of these are committed to the several servants, that they may trade with
them in their master's absence, and give account of their employment at his return. Men may
choose to forget the ends for which their 'talents' were given them; they may count them merely
something which they have gotten; [Footnote: An [Greek: hexis], as the heathen did, not a [Greek:
dorema], as the Christian does; see a remarkable passage in Bishop Andrewes' Sermons, vol.
iii. p. 384.] they may turn them to selfish ends; they may glorify themselves in them, instead
of glorifying the Giver; they may practically deny that they were given at all; yet in this
word, till they can rid their vocabulary of it, abides a continual memento that they were so
given, or rather lent, and that each man shall have to render an account of their use.

Again, in 'oblige' and 'obligation,' as when we speak of 'being obliged,' or of having 'received
an obligation,' a moral truth is asserted--this namely, that having received a benefit or a
favour at the hands of another, we are thereby morally bound to show ourselves grateful for
the same. We cannot be ungrateful without denying not merely a moral truth, but one incorporated
in the very language which we employ. Thus South, in a sermon, Of the odious Sin of Ingratitude,
has well asked, 'If the conferring of a kindness did not bind the person upon whom it was conferred
to the returns of gratitude, why, in the universal dialect of the world, are kindnesses called
obligations?' [Footnote: Sermons, London, 1737, vol. i. p. 407.]

Once more--the habit of calling a woman's chastity her 'virtue' is significant. I will not
deny that it may spring in part from a tendency which often meets us in language, to narrow
the whole circle of virtues to some one upon which peculiar stress is laid; [Footnote: Thus
in Jewish Greek [Greek: eleaemosnuae] stands often for [Greek: dikaosnuae] (Deut. vi. 25; Ps.
cii. 6, LXX), or almsgiving for righteousness.] but still, in selecting this peculiar one as
the 'virtue' of woman, there speaks out a true sense that this is indeed for her the citadel
of the whole moral being, the overthrow of which is the overthrow of all; that it is the keystone
of the arch, which being withdrawn, the whole collapses and falls.

Or consider all which is witnessed for us in 'kind.' We speak of a 'kind' person, and we speak
of man-'kind,' and perhaps, if we think about the matter at all, fancy that we are using quite
different words, or the same words in senses quite unconnected. But they are connected, and
by closest bonds; a 'kind' person is one who acknowledges his kinship with other men, and acts
upon it; confesses that he owes to them, as of one blood with himself, the debt of love. [Footnote:
Thus Hamlet does much more than merely play on words when he calls his father's brother, who
had married his mother, 'A little more than kin, and less than kind.' [For the relation between
kind (the adj.) and kind ('nature,' the sb.) see Skeat's Dict.]] Beautiful before, how much
more beautiful do 'kind' and 'kindness' appear, when we apprehend the root out of which they
grow, and the truth which they embody; that they are the acknowledgment in loving deeds of
our kinship with our brethren; of the relationship which exists between all the members of
the human family, and of the obligations growing out of the same.

But I observed just now that there are also words bearing on them the slime of the serpent's
trail; uses, too, of words which imply moral perversity--not upon their parts who employ them
now in their acquired senses, but on theirs from whom little by little they received their
deflection, and were warped from their original rectitude. A 'prude' is now a woman with an
over-done affectation of a modesty which she does not really feel, and betraying the absence
of the substance by this over-preciseness and niceness about the shadow. Goodness must have
gone strangely out of fashion, the corruption of manners must have been profound, before matters
could have come to this point. 'Prude,' a French word, means properly virtuous or prudent.
[Footnote: [Compare French prude, on the etymology of which see Schelar's French Dict., ed.
3 (1888)].] But where morals are greatly and generally relaxed, virtue is treated as hypocrisy;
and thus, in a dissolute age, and one incredulous of any inward purity, by the 'prude' or virtuous
woman is intended a sort of female Tartuffe, affecting a virtue which it is taken for granted
none can really possess; and the word abides, a proof of the world's disbelief in the realities
of goodness, of its resolution to treat them as hypocrisies and deceits.

Again, why should 'simple' be used slightingly, and 'simpleton' more slightingly still? The
'simple' is one properly of a single fold; [Footnote: [Latin simplicem; for Lat. sim-, sin-=
Greek [Greek: ha] in [Greek: ha-pax], see Brugmann, Grundriss, Section 238, Curtius, Greek
Etym. No. 599.]] a Nathanael, whom as such Christ honoured to the highest (John i. 47); and,
indeed, what honour can be higher than to have nothing double about us, to be without duplicities
or folds? Even the world, which despises 'simplicity,' does not profess to admire 'duplicity,'
or double-foldedness. But inasmuch as it is felt that a man without these folds will in a world
like ours make himself a prey, and as most men, if obliged to choose between deceiving and
being deceived, would choose the former, it has come to pass that 'simple' which in a kingdom
of righteousness would be a world of highest honour, carries with it in this world of ours
something of contempt. [Footnote: 'Schlecht,' which in modern German means bad, good for nothing,
once meant good,--good, that is, in the sense of right or straight, but has passed through
the same stages to the meaning which it now possesses, 'albern' has done the same (Max Mueller,
Science of Language, 2nd series, p. 274).] Nor can we help noting another involuntary testimony
borne by human language to human sin. I mean this,--that an idiot, or one otherwise deficient
in intellect, is called an 'innocent' or one who does no hurt; this use of 'innocent' assuming
that to do hurt and harm is the chief employment to which men turn their intellectual powers,
that, where they are wise, they are oftenest wise to do evil.

Nor are these isolated examples of the contemptuous use which words expressive of goodness
gradually acquire. Such meet us on every side. Our 'silly' is the Old-English 'saelig' or blessed.
We see it in a transition state in our early poets, with whom 'silly' is an affectionate epithet
which sheep obtain for their harmlessness. One among our earliest calls the newborn Lord of
Glory Himself, 'this harmless silly babe,' But 'silly' has travelled on the same lines as 'simple,'
'innocent,' and so many other words. The same moral phenomenon repeats itself continually.
Thus 'sheepish' in the Ormulum is an epithet of honour: it is used of one who has the mind
of Him who was led as a sheep to the slaughter. At the first promulgation of the Christian
faith, while the name of its Divine Founder was still strange to the ears of the heathen, they
were wont, some in ignorance, but more of malice, slightly to mispronounce this name, turning
'Christus' into 'Chrestus'--that is, the benevolent or benign. That these last meant no honour
thereby to the Lord of Life, but the contrary, is certain; this word, like 'silly,' 'innocent,'
'simple,' having already contracted a slight tinge of contempt, without which there would have
been no inducement to fasten it on the Saviour. The French have their 'bonhomie' with the same
undertone of contempt, the Greeks their [Greek: eyetheia]. Lady Shiel tells us of the modern
Persians, 'They have odd names for describing the moral qualities; "Sedakat" means sincerity,
honesty, candour; but when a man is said to be possessed of "sedakat," the meaning is that
he is a credulous, contemptible simpleton.' [Footnote: Life and Manners in Persia, p. 247.]
It is to the honour of the Latin tongue, and very characteristic of the best aspects of Roman
life, that 'simplex' and 'simplicitas' never acquired this abusive signification.

Again, how prone are we all to ascribe to chance or fortune those gifts and blessings which
indeed come directly from God--to build altars to Fortune rather than to Him who is the author
of every good thing which we have gotten. And this faith of men, that their blessings, even
their highest, come to them by a blind chance, they have incorporated in a word; for 'happy'
and 'happiness' are connected with 'hap,' which is chance;--how unworthy, then, to express
any true felicity, whose very essence is that it excludes hap or chance, that the world neither
gave nor can take it away. [Footnote: The heathen with their [Greek: eudaimonia], inadequate
as this word must be allowed to be, put us here to shame.] Against a similar misuse of 'fortunate,'
'unfortunate,' Wordsworth very nobly protests, when, of one who, having lost everything else,
had yet kept the truth, he exclaims:

     'Call not the royal Swede unfortunate,
      Who never did to Fortune bend the knee.'

There are words which reveal a wrong or insufficient estimate that men take of their duties,
or that at all events others have taken before them; for it is possible that the mischief may
have been done long ago, and those who now use the words may only have inherited it from others,
not helped to bring it about themselves. An employer of labour advertises that he wants so
many 'hands'; but this language never could have become current, a man could never have thus
shrunk into a 'hand' in the eyes of his fellow-man, unless this latter had in good part forgotten
that, annexed to those hands which he would purchase to toil for him, were also heads and hearts
[Footnote: A similar use of [Greek: somata] for slaves in Greek rested originally on the same
forgetfulness of the moral worth of every man. It has found its way into the Septuagint and
Apocrypha (Gen. xxxvi. 6; 2 Macc. viii. 11; Tob. x. 10); and occurs once in the New Testament
(Rev. xviii. 13). [In Gen. xxxvi. 6 the [Greek: somata] of the Septuagint is a rendering of
the Hebrew nafshoth, souls, so Luther translates 'Seelen.']]--a fact, by the way, of which,
if he persists in forgetting it, he may be reminded in very unwelcome ways at the last. In
Scripture there is another not unfrequent putting of a part for the whole, as when it is said,
'The same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls' (Acts ii. 41). 'Hands'
here, 'souls' there--the contrast may suggest some profitable reflections.

There is another way in which the immorality of words mainly displays itself, and in which
they work their worst mischief; that is, when honourable names are given to dishonourable things,
when sin is made plausible; arrayed, it may be, in the very colours of goodness, or, if not
so, yet in such as go far to conceal its own native deformity. 'The tongue,' as St. James has
said, 'is a world of iniquity' (iii. 7); or, as some would render his words, and they are then
still more to our purpose, 'the ornament of iniquity,' that which sets it out in fair and attractive
colours. On this text, and with reference to this scheme, South has written four of his grandest
sermons, bearing this striking title, Of the fatal Imposture and Force of Words. [Footnote:
Sermons, 1737, vol. ii. pp. 313-351; vol. vi. pp. 3-120. Thus on those who pleaded that their
'honour' was engaged, and that therefore they could not go back from this or that sinful act:--'Honour
is indeed a noble thing, and therefore the word which signifies it must needs be very plausible.
But as a rich and glistening garment may be cast over a rotten body, so an illustrious commanding
word may be put upon a vile and an ugly thing--for words are but the garments, the loose garments
of things, and so may easily be put off and on according to the humour of him who bestows them.
But the body changes not, though the garments do.'] How awful, yea how fearful, is this 'imposture
and force' of theirs, leading men captive at will. There is an atmosphere about them which
they are evermore diffusing, a savour of life or of death, which we insensibly inhale at each
moral breath we draw. [Footnote: Bacon's words have often been quoted, but they will bear being
quoted once more: Credunt enim homines rationem suam verbis imperare. Sed fit etiam ut verba
vim suam super intellectum retorqueant et reflectant.] 'Winds of the soul,' as we have already
heard them called, they fill its sails, and are continually impelling it upon its course, to
heaven or to hell.

Thus how different the light in which we shall have learned to regard a sin, according as we
have been wont to designate it, and to hear it designated, by a word which brings out its loathsomeness
and deformity; or by one which palliates this and conceals; men, as one said of old, being
wont for the most part to be ashamed not of base deeds but of base names affixed to those deeds.
In the murder trials at Dublin, 1883, those destined to the assassin's knife were spoken of
by approvers as persons to be removed, and their death constantly described as their 'removal.'
In Sussex it is never said of a man that he is drunk. He may be 'tight,' or 'primed,' or 'crank,'
or 'concerned in liquor,' nay, it may even be admitted that he had taken as much liquor as
was good for him; but that he was drunk, oh never. [Footnote: 'Pransus' and 'potus,' in like
manner, as every Latin scholar knows, mean much more than they say.] Fair words for foul things
are everywhere only too frequent; thus in 'drug-damned Italy,' when poisoning was the rifest,
nobody was said to be poisoned; it was only that the death of this one or of that had been
'assisted' (aiutata). Worse still are words which seek to turn the edge of the divine threatenings
against some sin by a jest; as when in France a subtle poison, by whose aid impatient heirs
delivered themselves from those who stood between them and the inheritance which they coveted,
was called 'poudre de succession.' We might suppose beforehand that such cloaks for sin would
be only found among people in an advanced state of artificial cultivation. But it is not so.
Captain Erskine, who visited the Fiji Islands before England had taken them into her keeping,
and who gives some extraordinary details of the extent to which cannibalism then prevailed
among their inhabitants, pork and human flesh being their two staple articles of food, relates
in his deeply interesting record of his voyage that natural pig they called 'short pig,' and
man dressed and prepared for food, 'long pig.' There was doubtless an attempt here to carry
off with a jest the revolting character of the practice in which they indulged. For that they
were themselves aware of this, that their consciences did bear witness against it, was attested
by their uniform desire to conceal, if possible, all traces of the practice from European eyes.

But worst, perhaps, of all are names which throw a flimsy veil of sentiment over some sin.
What a source, for example, of mischief without end in our country parishes is the one practice
of calling a child born out of wedlock a 'love-child,' instead of a bastard. It would be hard
to estimate how much it has lowered the tone and standard of morality among us; or for how
many young women it may have helped to make the downward way more sloping still. How vigorously
ought we to oppose ourselves to all such immoralities of language. This opposition, it is true,
will never be easy or pleasant; for many who will endure to commit a sin, will profoundly resent
having that sin called by its right name. Pirates, as Aristotle tells us, in his time called
themselves 'purveyors.' [Footnote: Rhet. iii. 2: [Greek: oi laestai autous poriotas kalousi
nun.]] Buccaneers, men of the same bloody trade, were by their own account 'brethren of the
coast.' Shakespeare's thieves are only true to human nature, when they name themselves 'St.
Nicholas' clerks,' 'michers,' 'nuthooks,' 'minions of the moon,' anything in short but thieves;
when they claim for their stealing that it shall not be so named, but only conveying ('convey
the wise it call'); the same dislike to look an ugly fact in the face reappearing among the
voters in some of our corrupter boroughs, who receive, not bribes--they are hugely indignant
if this is imputed to them--but 'head-money' for their votes. Shakespeare indeed has said that
a rose by any other name would smell as sweet; but there are some things which are not roses,
and which are counted to smell a great deal sweeter being called by any other name than their
own. Thus, to deal again with bribes, call a bribe 'palm oil,' or a 'pot de vin,' and how much
of its ugliness disappears. Far more moral words are the English 'sharper' and 'blackleg' than
the French 'chevalier d'industrie': [Footnote: For the rise of this phrase, see Lemontey, Louis
XIV. p. 43.] and the same holds good of the English equivalent, coarse as it is, for the Latin
'conciliatrix.' In this last word we have a notable example of the putting of sweet for bitter,
of the attempt to present a disgraceful occupation on an amiable, almost a sentimental side,
rather than in its own proper deformity. [Footnote: This tendency of men to throw the mantle
of an honourable word over a dishonourable thing, or, vice versa, to degrade an honourable
thing, when they do not love it, by a dishonourable appellation, has in Greek a word to describe
it, [Greek: hypokorizesthai], itself a word with an interesting history; while the great ethical
teachers of Greece frequently occupy themselves in detecting and denouncing this most mischievous
among all the impostures of words. Thus, when Thucydides (iii. 82) would paint the fearful
moral ruin which her great Civil War had wrought, he adduces this alteration of the received
value of words, this fitting of false names to everything--names of honour to the base, and
of baseness to the honourable--as one of the most remarkable tokens of this, even as it again
set forward the evil, of which it had been first the result.] Use and custom soon dim our eyes
in such matters as these; else we should be deeply struck by a familiar instance of this falsehood
in names, one which perhaps has never struck us at all--I mean the profane appropriation of
'eau de vie' (water of life), a name borrowed from some of the Saviour's most precious promises
(John iv. 14; Rev. xxii. 17), to a drink which the untutored savage with a truer instinct has
named 'fire-water'; which, sad to say, is known in Tahiti as 'British water'; and which has
proved for thousands and tens of thousands, in every clime, not 'water of life,' but the fruitful
source of disease, crime, and madness, bringing forth first these, and when these are finished,
bringing forth death. There is a blasphemous irony in this appropriation of the language of
heaven to that which, not indeed in its use, but too frequent abuse, is the instrument of hell,
that is almost without a parallel. [Footnote: Milton in a profoundly instructive letter, addressed
by him to one of the friends whom he made during his Italian tour, encourages him in those
philological studies to which he had devoted his life by such words as these: Neque enim qui
sermo, purusne an corruptus, quaeve loquendi proprietas quotidiana populo sit, parvi interesse
arbitrandum est, quae res Athenis non semel saluti fuit; immo vero, quod Platonis sententia
est, immutato vestiendi more habituque graves in Republica motus mutationesque portendi, equidem
potius collabente in vitium atque errorem loquendi usu occasum ejus urbis remque humilem et
obscuram subsequi crediderim: verba enim partim inscita et putida, partim mendosa et perperam
prolata, quid si ignavos et oscitantes et ad servile quidvis jam olim paratos incolarum animos
haud levi indicio declarant? Contra nullum unquam audivimus imperium, nullam civitatem non
mediocriter saltern floruisse, quamdiu linguae sua gratia, suusque cultus constitit. Thus when
at the breaking out of our Civil War the Parliamentary party styled themselves 'The Godly,'
while to the Royalists they gave the title of 'The Malignants,' it is certain that, wherever
they could procure entrance and allowance for these terms, the question upon whose side the
right lay was already decided. The Royalists, it is true, made exactly the same employment
of what Bentham used to call question-begging words, of words steeped quite as deeply in the
passions which animated them. It was much when at Florence the 'Bad Boys,' as they defiantly
called themselves, were able to affix on the followers of Savonarola the title of Piagnoni
or The Snivellers. So, too, the Franciscans, when they nicknamed the Dominicans 'Maculists,'
as denying, or at all events refusing to affirm as a matter of faith, that the Blessed Virgin
was conceived without stain (sine macula), perfectly knew that this title would do much to
put their rivals in an odious light. The copperhead in America is a peculiarly venomous snake.
Something effectual was done when this name was fastened, as it lately was, by one party in
America on its political opponents. Not otherwise, in some of our northern towns, the workmen
who refuse to join a trade union are styled 'knobsticks,' 'crawlers,' 'scabs,' 'blacklegs.'
Nor can there be any question of the potent influence which these nicknames of contempt and
scorn exert. [Footnote: [See interesting chapter on Political Nicknames in D'Israeli's Curiosities
of Literature.]]

Seeing, then, that language contains so faithful a record of the good and of the evil which
in time past have been working in the minds and hearts of men, we shall not err, if we regard
it as a moral barometer indicating and permanently marking the rise or fall of a nation's life.
To study a people's language will be to study them, and to study them at best advantage; there,
where they present themselves to us under fewest disguises, most nearly as they are. Too many
have had a hand in the language as it now is, and in bringing it to the shape in which we find
it, it is too entirely the collective work of a whole people, the result of the united contributions
of all, it obeys too immutable laws, to allow any successful tampering with it, any making
of it to witness to any other than the actual facts of the case. [Footnote: Terrien Poncel,
Du Langage, p. 231: Les langues sont faites a l'usage des peuples qui les parlent; elles sont
animees chacune d'un esprit different, et suivent un mode particulier d'action, conforme a
leur principe. 'L'esprit d'une nation et le caractere de sa langue, a ecrit G. de Humboldt,
'sont si intimement lies ensemble, que si l'un etait donne, l'autre devrait pouvoir s'en deduire
exactement.' La langue n'est autre chose que la manifestation exterieure de l'esprit des peuples;
leur langue est leur esprit, et leur esprit est leur langue, de telle sorte qu'en developpant
et perfectionnant l'un, ils developpent et perfectionnent necessairement l'autre. And a recent
German writer has well said, Die Sprache, das selbstgewebte Kleid der Vorstellung, in welchem
jeder Faden wieder eine Vorstellung ist, kann uns, richtig betrachtet, offenbaren, welche Vorstellungen
die Grundfaden bildeten (Gerber, Die Sprache als Kunst).] Thus the frivolity of an age or nation,
its mockery of itself, its inability to comprehend the true dignity and meaning of life, the
feebleness of its moral indignation against evil, all this will find an utterance in the employment
of solemn and earnest words in senses comparatively trivial or even ridiculous. 'Gehenna,'
that word of such terrible significance on the lips of our Lord, has in French issued in 'gene,'
and in this shape expresses no more than a slight and petty annoyance. 'Ennui' meant once something
very different from what now it means. [Footnote: Ennui is derived from the Late Latin phrase
in odio esse.] Littre gives as its original signification, 'anguish of soul, caused by the
death of persons beloved, by their absence, by the shipwreck of hopes, by any misfortunes whatever.'
'Honnetete,' which should mean that virtue of all virtues, honesty, and which did mean it once,
standing as it does now for external civility and for nothing more, marks a willingness to
accept the slighter observances and pleasant courtesies of society in the room of deeper moral
qualities. 'Verite' is at this day so worn out, has been used so often where another and very
different word would have been more appropriate, that not seldom a Frenchman at this present
who would fain convince us of the truth of his communication finds it convenient to assure
us that it is 'la vraie verite.' Neither is it well that words, which ought to have been reserved
for the highest mysteries of the spiritual life, should be squandered on slight and secular
objects,--'spirituel' itself is an example in point,--or that words implying once the deepest
moral guilt, as is the case with 'perfide,' 'malice,' 'malin,' in French, should be employed
now almost in honour, applied in jest and in play.

Often a people's use of some single word will afford us a deeper insight into their real condition,
their habits of thought and feeling, than whole volumes written expressly with the intention
of imparting this insight. Thus 'idiot,' a Greek word, is abundantly characteristic of Greek
life. The 'idiot,' or [Greek: idiotas], was originally the private man, as contradistinguished
from one clothed with office, and taking his share in the management of public affairs. In
this its primary sense it was often used in the English of the seventeenth century; as when
Jeremy Taylor says, 'Humility is a duty in great ones, as well as in idiots.' It came then
to signify a rude, ignorant, unskilled, intellectually unexercised person, a boor; this derived
or secondary sense bearing witness to a conviction woven deep into the Greek mind that contact
with public life, and more or less of participation in it, was indispensable even to the right
development of the intellect, [Footnote: Hare, Mission of the Comforter, p. 552.] a conviction
which would scarcely have uttered itself with greater clearness than it does in this secondary
use of 'idiot.' Our tertiary, in which the 'idiot' is one deficient in intellect, not merely
with intellectual powers unexercised, is only this secondary pushed a little farther. Once
more, how wonderfully characteristic of the Greek mind it is that the language should have
one and the same word ([Greek: kalos]), to express the beautiful and the good--goodness being
thus contemplated as the highest beauty; while over against this stands another word ([Greek:
aischros]) used alike for the ugly to look at and for the morally bad. Again, the innermost
differences between the Greek and the Hebrew reveal themselves in the several salutations of
each, in the 'Rejoice' of the first, as contrasted with the 'Peace' of the second. The clear,
cheerful, world-enjoying temper of the Greek embodies itself in the first; he could desire
nothing better or higher for himself, nor wish it for his friend, than to have joy in his life.
But the Hebrew had a deeper longing within him, and one which finds utterance in his 'Peace.'
It is not hard to perceive why this latter people should have been chosen as the first bearers
of that truth which indeed enables truly to rejoice, but only through first bringing peace;
nor why from them the word of life should first go forth. It may be urged, indeed, that these
were only forms, and such they may have at length become; as in our 'good-by' or 'adieu' we
can hardly be said now to commit our friend to the Divine protection; yet still they were not
forms at the beginning, nor would they have held their ground, if ever they had become such
altogether.

How much, again, will be sometimes involved in the gradual disuse of one name, and the coming
up of another in its room. Thus, little as the fact, and the moral significance of the fact,
may have been noticed at the time, what an epoch was it in the history of the Papacy, and with
what distinctness marking a more thorough secularizing of its whole tone and spirit, when 'Ecclesia
Romana,' the official title by which it was wont at an earlier day to designate itself, gave
place to the later title, 'Curia Romana,' the Roman Church making room for the Roman Court.
[Footnote: See on this matter The Pope and the Council, by Janus, p. 215.] The modifications
of meaning which a word has undergone as it had been transplanted from one soil to another,
so that one nation borrowing it from another, has brought into it some force foreign to it
before, has deepened, or extenuated, or otherwise modified its meaning,--this may reveal to
us, as perhaps nothing else would, fundamental diversities of character existing between them.
The word in Greek exactly corresponding to our 'self-sufficient' is one of honour, and was
applied to men in their praise. And indeed it was the glory of the heathen philosophy to teach
man to find his resources in his own bosom, to be thus sufficient for himself; and seeing that
a true centre without him and above him, a centre in God, had not been revealed to him, it
was no shame for him to seek it there; far better this than to have no centre at all. But the
Gospel has taught us another lesson, to find our sufficiency in God: and thus 'self- sufficient,'
to the Greek suggesting no lack of modesty, of humility, or of any good thing, at once suggests
such to us. 'Self-sufficiency' no man desires now to be attributed to him. The word carries
for us its own condemnation; and its different uses, for honour once, for reproach now, do
in fact ground themselves on the innermost differences between the religious condition of the
world before Christ and after.

It was not well with Italy, she might fill the world with exquisite specimens of her skill
in the arts, with pictures and statues of rarest loveliness, but all higher national life was
wanting to her during those centuries in which she degraded 'virtuoso,' or the virtuous man,
to signify one skilled in the appreciation of painting, music, and sculpture; for these, the
ornamental fringe of a people's life, can never, without loss of all manliness of character,
be its main texture and woof--not to say that excellence in them has been too often dissociated
from all true virtue and moral worth. The opposite exaggeration of the Romans, for whom 'virtus'
meant predominantly warlike courage, the truest 'manliness' of men, was more tolerable than
this; for there is a sense in which a man's 'valour' is his value, is the measure of his worth;
seeing that no virtue can exist among men who have not learned, in Milton's glorious phrase,'
to hate the cowardice of doing wrong.' [Footnote: It did not escape Plutarch, imperfect Latin
scholar as he was, that 'virtus' far more nearly corresponded to [Greek: andreia] than to [Greek:
arete] (Coriol. I)] It could not but be morally ill with a people among whom 'morbidezza' was
used as an epithet of praise, expressive of a beauty which on the score of its sickly softness
demanded to be admired. There was too sure a witness here for the decay of moral strength and
health, when these could not merely be dissevered from beauty, but implicitly put in opposition
to it. Nor less must it have fared ill with Italians, there was little joy and little pride
which they could have felt in their country, at a time when 'pellegrino,' meaning properly
the strange or the foreign, came to be of itself a word of praise, and equivalent to beautiful.
[Footnote: Compare Florio's Ital. Diet.: 'pelegrino, excellent, noble, rare, pregnant, singular
and choice.'] Far better the pride and assumption of that ancient people who called all things
and persons beyond their own pale barbarous and barbarians; far better our own 'outlandish,'
used with something of the same contempt. There may be a certain intolerance in our use of
these; yet this how much healthier than so far to have fallen out of conceit with one's own
country, so far to affect things foreign, that these last, merely on the strength of being
foreign, commend themselves as beautiful in our sight. How little, again, the Italians, until
quite later years, can have lived in the spirit of their ancient worthies, or reverenced the
most illustrious among these, we may argue from the fact that they should have endured so far
to degrade the name of one among their noblest, that every glib and loquacious hireling who
shows strangers about their picture- galleries, palaces, and ruins, is called 'cicerone,' or
a Cicero! It is unfortunate that terms like these, having once sprung up, are not again, or
are not easily again, got rid of. They remain, testifying to an ignoble past, and in some sort
helping to maintain it, long after the temper and tone of mind that produced them has passed
away. [Footnote: See on this matter Marsh, On the English Language, New York, 1860, p. 224.]

Happily it is nearly impossible for us in England to understand the mingled scorn, hatred,
fear, suspicion, contempt, which in time past were associated with the word 'sbirri' in Italian.
[Footnote: [Compare V. Hugo's allusion to Louis Napoleon in the Chatiments:

     'Qui pour la mettre en croix livra,
     Sbire cruel!
     Rome republicaine a Rome catholique!']]

These 'sbirri' were the humble, but with all this the acknowledged, ministers of justice; while
yet everything which is mean and false and oppressive, which can make the name of justice hateful,
was implied in this title of theirs, was associated with their name. There is no surer sign
of a bad oppressive rule, than when the titles of the administrators of law, titles which should
be in themselves so honourable, thus acquire a hateful undermeaning. What a world of concussions,
chicane and fraud, must have found place, before tax- gatherer, or exciseman, 'publican,' as
in our English Bible, could become a word steeped in hatred and scorn, as alike for Greek and
Jew it was; while, on the other hand, however unwelcome the visits of the one or the interference
of the other may be to us, yet the sense of the entire fairness and justice with which their
exactions are made, acquits these names for us of the slightest sense of dishonour. 'Policeman'
has no evil subaudition with us; though in the last century, when a Jonathan Wild was possible,
'catchpole,' a word in Wiclif's time of no dishonour at all, was abundantly tinged with this
scorn and contempt. So too, if at this day any accidental profits fall or 'escheat' to the
Crown, they are levied with so much fairness and more than fairness to the subject, that, were
not the thing already accomplished, 'escheat' would never yield 'cheat,' nor 'escheator' 'cheater,'
as through the extortions and injustices for which these dues were formerly a pretext, they
actually have done.

It is worse, as marking that a still holier sanctuary than that of civil government has become
profane in men's sight, when words which express sacred functions and offices become redolent
of scorn. How thankful we may be that in England we have no equivalent to the German 'Pfaffe,'
which, identical with 'papa' and 'pope,' and a name given at first to any priest, now carries
with it the insinuation of almost every unworthiness in the forms of meanness, servility, and
avarice which can render the priest's office and person base and contemptible.

Much may be learned by noting the words which nations have been obliged to borrow from other
nations, as not having the same of home-growth-- this in most cases, if not in all, testifying
that the thing itself was not native, but an exotic, transplanted, like the word that indicated
it, from a foreign soil. Thus it is singularly characteristic of the social and political life
of England, as distinguished from that of the other European nations, that to it alone the
word 'club' belongs; France and Germany, having been alike unable to grow a word of their own,
have borrowed ours. That England should have been the birthplace of 'club' is nothing wonderful;
for these voluntary associations of men for the furthering of such social or political ends
as are near to the hearts of the associates could have only had their rise under such favourable
circumstances as ours. In no country where there was not extreme personal freedom could they
have sprung up; and as little in any where men did not know how to use this freedom with moderation
and self-restraint, could they long have been endured. It was comparatively easy to adopt the
word; but the ill success of the 'club' itself everywhere save here where it is native, has
shown that it was not so easy to transplant or, having transplanted, to acclimatize the thing.
While we have lent this and other words, political and industrial for the most part, to the
French and Germans, it would not be less instructive, if time allowed, to trace our corresponding
obligations to them.

And scarcely less significant and instructive than the presence of a word in a language, will
be occasionally its absence. Thus Fronto, a Greek orator in Roman times, finds evidence of
an absence of strong family affection on the part of the Romans in the absence of any word
in the Latin language corresponding to the Greek [Greek: philostorgos] How curious, from the
same point of view, are the conclusions which Cicero in his high Roman fashion draws from the
absence of any word in the Greek answering to the Latin 'ineptus'; not from this concluding,
as we might have anticipated, that the character designated by the word was wanting, but rather
that the fault was so common, so universal with the Greeks, that they failed to recognize it
as a fault at all. [Footnote: De Orat. ii. 4: Quem enim nos ineptum vocamus, is mihi videtur
ab hoc nomen habere ductum, quod non sit aptus. Idque in sermonis nostri consuetudine perlate
patet. Nam qui aut tempus quid postulet, non videt, aut plura loquitur, aut se ostentat, aut
eorum quibuscum est vel dignitatis vel commodi rationem non habet, aut denique in aliquo genere
aut inconcinnus aut multus est, is ineptus esse dicitur. Hoc vitio cumulata est eruditissima
illa Graecorum natio. Itaque quod vim hujus mali Graeci non vident, ne nomen quidem ei vitio
imposuerunt. Ut enim quasras omnia, quomodo Graeci ineptum appellent, non invenies.] Very instructive
you may find it to note these words, which one people possess, but to which others have nothing
to correspond, so that they have no choice but to borrow these, or else to go without altogether.
Here are some French words for which it would not be easy, nay, in most cases it would be impossible,
to find exact equivalents in English or in German, or probably in any language: 'aplomb,' 'badinage,'
'borne,' 'chic,' 'chicane,' 'cossu,' 'coterie,' 'egarement,' 'elan,' 'espieglerie,' 'etourderie,'
'friponnerie,' 'gentil,' 'ingenue,' 'liaison,' 'malice,' 'parvenu,' 'persiflage,' 'prevenant,'
'ruse,' 'tournure,' 'tracasserie,' 'verve.' It is evident that the words just named have to
do with shades of thought which are to a great extent unfamiliar to us; for which, at any rate,
we have not found a name, have hardly felt that they needed one. But fine and subtle as in
many instances are the thoughts which these words embody, there are deeper thoughts struggling
in the bosom of a people, who have devised for themselves such words as the following: 'gemueth,'
'heimweh,' 'innigkeit,' 'sehnsucht,' 'tiefsinn,' 'sittsamkeit,' 'verhaengniss,' 'weltschmerz,'
'zucht'; all these being German words which, in a similar manner, partially or wholly fail
to find their equivalents in French.

The petty spite which unhappily so often reigns between nations dwelling side by side with
one another, as it embodies itself in many shapes, so it finds vent in the words which they
borrow from one another, and the use to which they put them. Thus the French, borrowing 'hablar'
from the Spaniards, with whom it means simply to speak, give it in 'habler' the sense of to
brag; the Spaniards paying them off in exactly their own coin, for of 'parler' which in like
manner is but to speak in French, they make 'parlar,' which means to prate, to chat. [Footnote:
See Darmesteter, The Life of Words, Eng. ed. p. 100.]

But it is time to bring this lecture to an end. These illustrations, to which it would be easy
to add more, justify all that has been asserted of a moral element existing in words; so that
they do not hold themselves neutral in that great conflict between good and evil, light and
darkness, which is dividing the world; that they are not satisfied to be passionless vehicles,
now of the truth, and now of lies. We see, on the contrary, that they continually take their
side, are some of them children of light, others children of this world, or even of darkness;
they beat with the pulses of our life; they stir with our passions; we clothe them with light;
we steep them in scorn; they receive from us the impressions of our good and of our evil, which
again they are most active still further to propagate and diffuse. [Footnote: Two or three
examples of what we have been affirming, drawn from the Latin, may fitly here find place. Thus
Cicero (Tusc. iii. 7) laments of 'confidens' that it should have acquired an evil signification,
and come to mean bold, over-confident in oneself, unduly pushing (compare Virgil,Georg. iv.
444), a meaning which little by little had been superinduced on the word, but etymologically
was not inherent in it at all. In the same way 'latro,' having left two earlier meanings behind,
one of these current so late as in Virgil (Aen. xii. 7), settles down at last in the meaning
of robber. Not otherwise 'facinus' begins with being simply a fact or act, something done;
but ends with being some act of outrageous wickedness. 'Pronuba' starts with meaning a bridesmaid
it ignobly ends with suggesting a procuress.] Must we not own then that there is a wondrous
and mysterious world, of which we may hitherto have taken too little account, around us and
about us?

LECTURE IV.

ON THE HISTORY IN WORDS.

Language, being ever in flux and flow, and, for nations to which letters are still strange,
existing only for the ear and as a sound, we might beforehand expect would prove the least
trustworthy of all vehicles whereby the knowledge of the past has reached our present; that
one which would most certainly betray its charge. In actual fact it has not proved so at all.
It is the main, oftentimes the only, connecting link between the two, an ark riding above the
water-floods that have swept away or submerged every other landmark and memorial of bygone
ages and vanished generations of men. Far beyond all written records in a language, the language
itself stretches back, and offers itself for our investigation--'the pedigree of nations,'
as Johnson calls it [Footnote: This statement of his must be taken with a certain amount of
qualification. It is not always that races are true to the end to their language; external
forces are sometimes too strong. Thus Celtic disappeared before Latin in Gaul and Spain. Slavonic
became extinct in Prussia two centuries ago, German taking its room; the negroes of Hayti speak
French, and various American tribes have exchanged their own idioms for Spanish and Portuguese.
See upon this matter Sayce's Principles of Comparative Philology, pp. 175-181.]-- itself in
its own independent existence a far older and at the same time a far more instructive document
than any book, inscription, or other writing which employs it. The written records may have
been falsified by carelessness, by vanity, by fraud, by a multitude of causes; but language
never deceives, if only we know how to question it aright.

Such investigations as these, it is true, lie plainly out of your sphere. Not so, however,
those humbler yet not less interesting inquiries, which by the aid of any tolerable dictionary
you may carry on into the past history of your own land, as attested by the present language
of its people. You know how the geologist is able from the different strata and deposits, primary,
secondary, or tertiary, succeeding one another, which he meets, to arrive at a knowledge of
the successive physical changes through which a region has passed; is, so to say, in a condition
to preside at those past changes, to measure the forces that were at work to produce them,
and almost to indicate their date. Now with such a language as the English before us, bearing
as it does the marks and footprints of great revolutions profoundly impressed upon it, we may
carry on moral and historical researches precisely analogous to his. Here too are strata and
deposits, not of gravel and chalk, sandstone and limestone, but of Celtic, Latin, Low German,
Danish, Norman words, and then once more Latin and French, with slighter intrusions from many
other quarters: and any one with skill to analyse the language might, up to a certain point,
re-create for himself the history of the people speaking that language, might with tolerable
accuracy appreciate the diverse elements out of which that people was made up, in what proportion
these were mingled, and in what succession they followed, one upon the other.

Would he trace, for example, the relation in which the English and Norman occupants of this
land stood to one another? An account of this, in the main as accurate as it would be certainly
instructive, might be drawn from an intelligent study of the contributions which they have
severally made to the English language, as bequeathed to us jointly by them both. Supposing
all other records to have perished, we might still work out and almost reconstruct the history
by these aids; even as now, when so many documents, so many institutions survive, this must
still be accounted the most important, and that of which the study will introduce us, as no
other can, into the innermost heart and life of large periods of our history.

Nor, indeed, is it hard to see why the language must contain such instruction as this, when
we a little realize to ourselves the stages by which it has reached us in its present shape.
There was a time when the languages which the English and the Norman severally spoke, existed
each by the side of, but un-mingled with, the other; one, that of the small dominant class,
the other that of the great body of the people. By degrees, however, with the reconciliation
and partial fusion of the two races, the two languages effected a transaction; one indeed prevailed
over the other, but at the same time received a multitude of the words of that other into its
own bosom. At once there would exist duplicates for many things. But as in popular speech two
words will not long exist side by side to designate the same thing, it became a question how
the relative claims of the English and Norman word should adjust themselves, which should remain,
which should be dropped; or, if not dropped, should be transferred to some other object, or
express some other relation. It is not of course meant that this was ever formally proposed,
or as something to be settled by agreement; but practically one was to be taken and one left.
Which was it that should maintain its ground? Evidently, where a word was often on the lips
of one race, its equivalent seldom on those of the other, where it intimately cohered with
the whole manner of life of one, was only remotely in contact with that of the other, where
it laid strong hold on one, and only slight on the other, the issue could not be doubtful.
In several cases the matter was simpler still: it was not that one word expelled the other,
or that rival claims had to be adjusted; but that there never had existed more than one word,
the thing which that word noted having been quite strange to the other section of the nation.

Here is the explanation of the assertion made just now--namely, that we might almost reconstruct
our history, so far as it turns upon the Norman Conquest, by an analysis of our present language,
a mustering of its words in groups, and a close observation of the nature and character of
those which the two races have severally contributed to it. Thus we should confidently conclude
that the Norman was the ruling race, from the noticeable fact that all the words of dignity,
state, honour, and pre-eminence, with one remarkable exception (to be adduced presently), descend
to us from them--'sovereign,' 'sceptre,' 'throne,' 'realm,' 'royalty,' 'homage,' 'prince,'
'duke,' 'count,' ('earl' indeed is Scandinavian, though he must borrow his 'countess' from
the Norman), 'chancellor,' 'treasurer,' 'palace,' 'castle,' 'dome,' and a multitude more. At
the same time the one remarkable exception of 'king' would make us, even did we know nothing
of the actual facts, suspect that the chieftain of this ruling race came in not upon a new
title, not as overthrowing a former dynasty, but claiming to be in the rightful line of its
succession; that the true continuity of the nation had not, in fact any more than in word,
been entirely broken, but survived, in due time to assert itself anew.

And yet, while the statelier superstructure of the language, almost all articles of luxury,
all having to do with the chase, with chivalry, with personal adornment, are Norman throughout;
with the broad basis of the language, and therefore of the life, it is otherwise. 'Palace'
and 'castle' may have reached us from the Norman, but to the Saxon we owe far dearer names,
the 'house,' the 'roof,' the 'home,' the 'hearth.' His 'board' too, and often probably it was
no more, has a more hospitable sound than the 'table' of his lord. His sturdy arms turn the
soil; he is the 'boor,' the 'hind,' the 'churl'; or if his Norman master has a name for him,
it is one which on his lips becomes more and more a title of opprobrium and contempt, the 'villain.'
The instruments used in cultivating the earth, the 'plough,' the 'share,' the 'rake,' the 'scythe,'
the 'harrow,' the 'wain,' the 'sickle,' the 'spade,' the 'sheaf,' the 'barn,' are expressed
in his language; so too the main products of the earth, as wheat, rye, oats, bere, grass, flax,
hay, straw, weeds; and no less the names of domestic animals. Putting all this together, with
much more of the same kind, which has only been indicated here, we should certainly gather,
that while there are manifest tokens preserved in our language of the Saxon having been for
a season an inferior and even an oppressed race, the stable elements of English life, however
overlaid for a while, had still made good their claim to be the solid groundwork of the after
nation as of the after language; and to the justice of this conclusion all other historic records,
and the present social condition of England, consent in bearing witness.

Then again, who could doubt, even if the fact were not historically attested, that the Arabs
were the arithmeticians, the astronomers, the chemists, the merchants of the Middle Ages, when
he had once noted that from them we have gotten these words and so many others like them- 'alchemy,'
'alcohol,' 'alembic,' 'algebra,' 'alkali,' 'almanack,' 'azimuth,' 'cypher,' 'elixir,' 'magazine,'
'nadir,' 'tariff,' 'zenith,' 'zero '?--for if one or two of these were originally Greek, they
reached us through the Arabic, and with tokens of their transit cleaving to them. In like manner,
even though history were silent on the matter, we might conclude, and we know that we should
rightly conclude, that the origins of the monastic system are to be sought in the Greek and
not in the Latin branch of the Church, seeing that with hardly an exception the words expressing
the constituent elements of the system, as 'anchorite,' 'archimandrite,' 'ascetic,' 'cenobite,'
'hermit,' 'monastery,' 'monk,' are Greek and not Latin.

But the study of words will throw rays of light upon a past infinitely more remote than any
which I have suggested here, will reveal to us secrets of the past, which else must have been
lost to us for ever. Thus it must be a question of profound interest for as many as count the
study of man to be far above every other study, to ascertain what point of culture that Indo-European
race of which we come, the stirps generosa et historica of the world, as Coleridge has called
it, had attained, while it was dwelling still as one family in its common home. No voices of
history, the very faintest voices of tradition, reach us from ages so far removed from our
own. But in the silence of all other voices there is one voice which makes itself heard, and
which can tell us much. Where Indian, and Greek, and Latin, and Teutonic designate some object
by the same word, and where it can be clearly shown that they did not, at a later day, borrow
that word one from the other, the object, we may confidently conclude, must have been familiar
to the Indo-European race, while yet these several groups of it dwelt as one undivided family
together. Now they have such common words for the chief domestic animals--for ox, for sheep,
for horse, for dog, for goose, and for many more. From this we have a right to gather that
before the migrations began, they had overlived and outgrown the fishing and hunting stages
of existence, and entered on the pastoral. They have not all the same words for the main products
of the earth, as for corn, wheat, barley, wine; it is tolerably evident therefore that they
had not entered on the agricultural stage. So too from the absence of names in common for the
principal metals, we have a right to argue that they had not arrived at a knowledge of the
working of these.

On the other hand, identical names for dress, for house, for door, for garden, for numbers
as far as a hundred, for the primary relations of the family, as father, mother, brother, sister,
son, daughter, for the Godhead, testify that the common stock, intellectual and moral, was
not small which they severally took with them when they went their way, each to set up for
itself and work out its own destinies in its own appointed region of the earth. Larger it may
very well, but poorer it cannot, have been. [Footnote: Ozanam (Les Germains avant le Christianisme,
p. 155): Dans le vocabulaire d'une langue on a tout le spectacle d'une civilisation. On y voit
ce qu'un peuple sait des choses invisibles, si les notions de Dieu, de l'ame, du devoir, sont
assez pures chez lui pour ne souffrir que des termes exacts. On mesure la puissance de ses
institutions par le nombre et la propriete des termes qu'elles veulent pour leur service; la
liturgie a ses paroles sacramentelles, la procedure a ses formules. Enfin, si ce peuple a etudie
la nature, il faut voir a quel point il en a penetre les secrets, par quelle variete d'expressions,
par quels sons flatteurs ou energiques, il a cherche a decrire les divers aspects du ciel et
de la terre, a faire, pour ainsi dire, l'inventaire des richesses temporelles dont il dispose.]

This is one way in which words, by their presence or their absence, may teach us history which
else we now can never know. I pass to other ways.

There are vast harvests of historic lore garnered often in single words; important facts which
they at once proclaim and preserve; these too such as sometimes have survived nowhere else
but in them. How much history lies in the word 'church.' I see no sufficient reason to dissent
from those who derive it from the Greek [Greek: kyriakae], 'that which pertains to the Lord,'
or 'the house which is the Lord's.' It is true that a difficulty meets us at the threshold
here. How explain the presence of a Greek word in the vocabulary of our Teutonic forefathers?
for that we do not derive it immediately from the Greek, is certain. What contact, direct or
indirect, between the languages will account for this? The explanation is curious. While Angles,
Saxons, and other tribes of the Teutonic stock were almost universally converted through contact
with the Latin Church in the western provinces of the Roman Empire, or by its missionaries,
some Goths on the Lower Danube had been brought at an earlier date to the knowledge of Christ
by Greek missionaries from Constantinople; and this [Greek: kyriakae] or 'church,' did, with
certain other words, pass over from the Greek to the Gothic tongue; these Goths, the first
converted and the first therefore with a Christian vocabulary, lending the word in their turn
to the other German tribes, to our Anglo-Saxon forefathers among the rest; and by this circuit
it has come round from Constantinople to us. [Footnote: The passage most illustrative of the
parentage of the word is from Walafrid Strabo (about A.D. 840): Ab ipsis autem Graecis Kyrch
a Kyrios, et alia multa accepimus. Sicut domus Dei Basilica, i.e. Regia a Rege, sic etiam Kyrica,
i.e. Dominica a Domino, nuncupatur. Si autem quaeritur, qua occasione ad nos vestigia haec
graecitatis advenerint, dicendum praecipue a Gothis, qui et Getae, cum eo tempore, quo ad fidem
Christi perducti sunt, in Graecorum provinciis commorantes, nostrum, i.e. theotiscum sermonem
habuerint. Cf. Rudolf von Raumer, Einwirkung des Christenthums auf die Althochdeutsche Sprache,
p. 288; Niedner, Kirch. Geschichte, p. 2. [It may, however, be as well to remark that no trace
of the Greek [Greek: kyriakae] occurs in the literary remains of the Gothic language which
have come down to us; the Gothic Christians borrowed [Greek: ekklaesia], as the Latin and Celtic
Christians did.]]

Or again, interrogate 'pagan' and 'paganism,' and you will find important history in them.
You are aware that 'pagani,' derived from 'pagus,' a village, had at first no religious significance,
but designated the dwellers in hamlets and villages as distinguished from the inhabitants of
towns and cities. It was, indeed, often applied to all civilians as contradistinguished from
the military caste; and this fact may have had a certain influence, when the idea of the faithful
as soldiers of Christ was strongly realized in the minds of men. But it was mainly in the following
way that it grew to be a name for those alien from the faith of Christ. The Church fixed itself
first in the seats and centres of intelligence, in the towns and cities of the Roman Empire;
in them its earliest triumphs were won; while, long after these had accepted the truth, heathen
superstitions and idolatries lingered on in the obscure hamlets and villages; so that 'pagans'
or villagers, came to be applied to all the remaining votaries of the old and decayed superstitions,
although not all, but only most of them, were such. In an edict of the Emperor Valentinian,
of date A.D. 368, 'pagan' first assumes this secondary meaning. 'Heathen' has run a course
curiously similar. When the Christian faith first found its way into Germany, it was the wild
dwellers on the heaths who were the slowest to accept it, the last probably whom it reached.
One hardly expects an etymology in Piers Plowman; but this is there:

     'Hethene is to mene after heth,
      And untiled erthe.'
          B. 15, 451, Skeat's ed. (Clarendon Press).

Here, then, are two instructive notices--one, the historic fact that the Church of Christ planted
itself first in the haunts of learning and intelligence; another, morally more significant,
that it did not shun discussion, feared not to encounter the wit and wisdom of this world,
or to expose its claims to the searching examination of educated men; but, on the contrary,
had its claims first recognized by them, and in the great cities of the world won first a complete
triumph over all opposing powers. [Footnote: There is a good note on 'pagan' in Gibbon's Decline
and Fall, c. 21, at the end; and in Grimm's Deutsche Mythol. p. 1198; and the history of the
changes in the word's use is well traced in another interest by Mill, Logic, vol. ii. p. 271.]

I quoted in my first lecture the saying of one who, magnifying the advantage to be derived
from such studies as ours, did not fear to affirm that oftentimes more might be learned from
the history of a word than from the history of a campaign. Thus follow some Latin word,. 'imperator'
for example; as Dean Merivale has followed it in his History of the Romans, [Footnote: Vol.
iii. pp. 441-452.] and you will own as much. But there is no need to look abroad. Words of
our own out of number, such as 'barbarous,' 'benefice,' 'clerk,' 'common-sense,' 'romance,'
'sacrament,' 'sophist,' [Footnote: For a history of 'sophist' see Sir Alexander Grant's Ethics
of Aristotle, 2nd ed. vol. i. p. 106, sqq.] would prove the truth of the assertion. Let us
take 'sacrament'; its history, while it carries us far, will yet carry us by ways full of instruction;
and these not the less instructive, while we restrict our inquiries to the external history
of the word. We find ourselves first among the forms of Roman law. The 'sacramentum' appears
there as the deposit or pledge, which in certain suits plaintiff and defendant were alike bound
to make, and whereby they engaged themselves to one another; the loser of the suit forfeiting
his pledge to sacred temple uses, from which fact the name 'sacramentum,' or thing consecrated,
was first derived. The word, as next employed, plants us amidst the military affairs of Rome,
designating the military oath by which the Roman soldiers mutually engaged themselves at the
first enlisting never to desert their standards, or turn their backs upon the enemy, or abandon
their general,--this employment teaching us the sacredness which the Romans attached to their
military engagements, and going far to account for their victories. The word was then transferred
from this military oath to any solemn oath whatsoever. These three stages 'sacramentum' had
already passed through, before the Church claimed it for her own, or indeed herself existed
at all. Her early writers, out of a sense of the sacredness and solemnity of the oath, transferred
this name to almost any act of special solemnity or sanctity, above all to such mysteries as
intended more than met eye or ear. For them the Incarnation was a 'sacrament,' the lifting
up of the brazen serpent was a 'sacrament,' the giving of the manna, and many things more.
It is well to be acquainted with this phase of the word's history, depriving as it does of
all convincing power those passages quoted by Roman Catholic controversialists from early church-writers
in proof of their seven sacraments. It is quite true that these may have called marriage a
'sacrament' and confirmation a 'sacrament,' and we may reach the Roman seven without difficulty;
but then they called many things more, which even the theologians of Rome do not include in
the 'sacraments' properly so called, by the same name; and this evidence, proving too much,
in fact proves nothing at all. One other stage in the word's history remains; its limitation,
namely, to the two 'sacraments,' properly so called, of the Christian Church. A reminiscence
of the employment of 'sacrament,' an employment which still survived, to signify the plighted
troth of the Roman soldier to his captain and commander, was that which had most to do with
the transfer of the word to Baptism; wherein we, with more than one allusion to this oath of
theirs, pledge ourselves to fight manfully under Christ's banner, and to continue his faithful
soldiers and servants to our life's end; while the mysterious character of the Holy Eucharist
was mainly that which earned for it this name.

We have already found history imbedded in the word 'frank'; but I must bring forward the Franks
again, to account for the fact with which we are all familiar, that in the East not Frenchmen
alone, but all Europeans, are so called. Why, it may be asked, should this be? This wide use
of 'Frank' dates from the Crusades; Michaud, the chief French historian of these, finding evidence
here that his countrymen took a decided lead, as their gallantry well fitted them to do, in
these romantic enterprises of the Middle Ages; impressed themselves so strongly on the imagination
of the East as the crusading nation of Europe, that their name was extended to all the warriors
of Christendom. He is not here snatching for them more than the honour which is justly theirs.
A very large proportion of the noblest Crusaders, from Godfrey of Bouillon to St. Lewis, as
of others who did most to bring these enterprises about, as Pope Urban II., as St. Bernard,
were French, and thus gave, in a way sufficiently easy to explain, an appellation to all. [Footnote:
See Fuller, Holy War, b. i. c. 13.]

To the Crusades also, and to the intense hatred which they roused throughout Christendom against
the Mahomedan infidels, we owe 'miscreant,' as designating one to whom the vilest principles
and practices are ascribed. A 'miscreant,' at the first, meant simply a misbeliever. The name
would have been applied as freely, and with as little sense of injustice, to the royal-hearted
Saladin as to the vilest wretch that fought in his armies. By degrees, however, those who employed
it tinged it more and more with their feeling and passion, more and more lost sight of its
primary use, until they used it of any whom they regarded with feelings of abhorrence, such
as those which they entertained for an infidel; just as 'Samaritan' was employed by the Jews
simply as a term of reproach, and with no thought whether he on whom it was fastened was in
fact one of that detested race or not; where indeed they were quite sure that he was not (John
viii. 48). 'Assassin' also, an Arabic word whose story you will find no difficulty in obtaining,--you
may read it in Gibbon, [Footnote: Decline and Fall, c. 64.]--connects itself with a romantic
chapter in the history of the Crusades.

Various explanations of 'cardinal' have been proposed, which should account for the appropriation
of this name to the parochial clergy of the city of Rome with the subordinate bishops of that
diocese. This appropriation is an outgrowth, and a standing testimony, of the measureless assumptions
of the Roman See. One of the favourite comparisons by which that See was wont to set out its
relation of superiority to all other Churches of Christendom was this; it was the hinge, or
'cardo,' on which all the rest of the Church, as the door, at once depended and turned. It
followed presently upon this that the clergy of Rome were 'cardinales,' as nearest to, and
most closely connected with, him who was thus the hinge, or 'cardo,' of all. [Footnote: Thus
a letter professing to be of Pope Anacletus the First in the first century, but really belonging
to the ninth: Apostolica Sedes cardo et caput omnium Ecclesiarum a Domino est constituta; et
sicut cardine ostium regitur, sic hujus S. Sedis auctoritate omnes Ecclesiae reguntur. And
we have 'cardinal' put in relation with this 'cardo' in a genuine letter of Pope Leo IX.: Clerici
summae Sedis Cardinales dicuntur, cardini utique illi quo cetera moventur, vicinius adhaerentes.]

'Legend' is a word with an instructive history. We all have some notion of what at this day
a 'legend' means. It is a tale which is not true, which, however historic in form, is not historic
in fact, claims no serious belief for itself. It was quite otherwise once. By this name of
'legends' the annual commemorations of the faith and patience of God's saints in persecution
and death were originally called; these legends in this title which they bore proclaiming that
they were worthy to be read, and from this worthiness deriving their name. At a later day,
as corruptions spread through the Church, these 'legends' grew, in Hooker's words, 'to be nothing
else but heaps of frivolous and scandalous vanities,' having been 'even with disdain thrown
out, the very nests which bred them abhorring them.' How steeped in falsehood, and to what
an extent, according to Luther's indignant turn of the word, the 'legends' (legende) must have
become 'lyings' (luegende), we can best guess, when we measure the moral forces which must
have been at work, before that which was accepted at the first as 'worthy to be read,' should
have been felt by this very name to announce itself as most unworthy, as belonging at best
to the region of fable, if not to that of actual untruth.

An inquiry into the pedigree of 'dunce' lays open to us an important page in the intellectual
history of Europe. Certain theologians in the Middle Ages were termed Schoolmen; having been
formed and trained in the cloister and cathedral schools which Charlemagne and his immediate
successors had founded. These were men not to be lightly spoken of, as they often are by those
who never read a line of their works, and have not a thousandth part of their wit; who moreover
little guess how many of the most familiar words which they employ, or misemploy, have descended
to them from these. 'Real,' 'virtual,' 'entity,' 'nonentity,' 'equivocation,' 'objective,'
'subjective,' with many more unknown to classical Latin, but now almost necessities to us,
were first coined by the Schoolmen; and, passing over from them into the speech of others more
or less interested in their speculations, have gradually filtered through the successive strata
of society, till now some of them have reached to quite the lowest. At the Revival of Learning,
however, their works fell out of favour: they were not written in classical Latin: the forms
into which their speculations were thrown were often unattractive; it was mainly in their authority
that the Roman Church found support for her perilled dogmas. On all these accounts it was esteemed
a mark of intellectual progress to have broken with them, and thrown off their yoke. Some,
however, still clung to these Schoolmen, and to one in particular, John Duns Scotus, the most
illustrious teacher of the Franciscan Order. Thus it came to pass that many times an adherent
of the old learning would seek to strengthen his position by an appeal to its famous doctor,
familiarly called Duns; while those of the new learning would contemptuously rejoin, 'Oh, you
are a Dunsman' or more briefly, 'You are a Duns,' --or, 'This is a piece of duncery'; and inasmuch
as the new learning was ever enlisting more and more of the genius and scholarship of the age
on its side, the title became more and more a term of scorn. 'Remember ye not,' says Tyndal,
'how within this thirty years and far less, the old barking curs, Dunce's disciples, and like
draff called Scotists, the children of darkness, raged in every pulpit against Greek, Latin,
and Hebrew?' And thus from that conflict long ago extinct between the old and the new learning,
that strife between the medieval and the modern theology, we inherit 'dunce' and 'duncery.'
The lot of Duns, it must be confessed, has been a hard one, who, whatever his merits as a teacher
of Christian truth, was assuredly one of the keenest and most subtle-witted of men. He, the
'subtle Doctor' by pre- eminence, for so his admirers called him, 'the wittiest of the school-
divines,' as Hooker does not scruple to style him, could scarcely have anticipated, and did
not at all deserve, that his name should be turned into a by-word for invincible stupidity.

This is but one example of the singular fortune waiting upon words. We have another of a parallel
injustice, in the use which 'mammetry,' a contraction of 'Mahometry,' obtained in our early
English. Mahomedanism being the most prominent form of false religion with which our ancestors
came in contact, 'mammetry' was used, up to and beyond the Reformation, to designate first
any false religion, and then the worship of idols; idolatry being proper to, and a leading
feature of, most of the false religions of the world. Men did not pause to remember that Mahomedanism
is the great exception, being as it is a protest against all idol-worship whatsoever; so that
it was a signal injustice to call an idol a 'mawmet' or a Mahomet, and idolatry 'mammetry.'

A misnomer such as this may remind us of the immense importance of possessing such names for
things as shall not involve or suggest an error. We have already seen this in the province
of the moral life; but in other regions also it nearly concerns us. Resuming, as words do,
the past, shaping the future, how important it is that significant facts or tendencies in the
world's history should receive their right names. It is a corrupting of the very springs and
sources of knowledge, when we bind up not a truth, but an error, in the very nomenclature which
we use. It is the putting of an obstacle in the way, which, however imperceptibly, is yet ever
at work, hindering any right apprehension of the thing which has been thus erroneously noted.

Out of a sense of this, an eminent German scholar of the last century, writing On the Influence
of Opinions on Language, did not stop here, nor make this the entire title of his book, but
added another and further clause--and on the Influence of Language on Opinions; [Footnote:
Von dem Einfluss der Meinungen in die Sprache, und der Sprache in die Meinungen, von J, D.
Michaelis, Berlin, 1760.] the matter which fulfils the promise of this latter clause constituting
by far the most interesting and original portion of his work: for while the influence of opinions
on words is so little called in question, that the assertion of it sounds almost like a truism,
this, on the contrary, of words on opinions, would doubtless present itself as a novelty to
many. And yet it is an influence which has been powerfully felt in every region of human knowledge,
in science, in art, in morals, in theology. The reactive energy of words, not merely on the
passions of men (for that of course), but on their opinions calmly and deliberately formed,
would furnish a very curious chapter in the history of human knowledge and human ignorance.

Sometimes words with no fault of theirs, for they did not originally involve any error, will
yet draw some error in their train; and of that error will afterwards prove the most effectual
bulwark and shield. Let me instance--the author just referred to supplies the example--the
word 'crystal.' The strange notion concerning the origin of the thing, current among the natural
philosophers of antiquity, and which only two centuries ago Sir Thomas Browne thought it worth
while to place first and foremost among the Vulgar Errors that he undertook to refute, was
plainly traceable to a confusion occasioned by the name. Crystal, as men supposed, was ice
or snow which had undergone such a process of induration as wholly and for ever to have lost
its fluidity: [Footnote: Augustine: Quid est crystallum? Nix est glacie durata per multos annos,
ita ut a sole vel igne facile dissolvi non possit. So too in Beaumont and Fletcher's tragedy
of Valentinian, a chaste matron is said to be 'cold as crystal never to be thawed again.']
and Pliny, backing up one mistake by another, affirmed that it was only found in regions of
extreme cold. The fact is, that the Greek word for crystal originally signified ice; but after
a while was also imparted to that diaphanous quartz which has so much the look of ice, and
which alone we call by this name; and then in a little while it was taken for granted that
the two, having the same name, were in fact the same substance; and this mistake it took ages
to correct.

Natural history abounds in legends. In the word 'leopard' one of these has been permanently
bound up; the error, having first given birth to the name, being afterwards itself maintained
and propagated by it. The leopard, as is well known, was not for the Greek and Latin zoologists
a species by itself, but a mongrel birth of the male panther or pard and the lioness; and in
'leopard' or 'lion-pard' this fabled double descent is expressed. [Footnote: This error lasted
into modern times; thus Fuller (A Pisgah Sight of Palestine, vol. i. p. 195): 'Leopards and
mules are properly no creatures.'] 'Cockatrice' embodies a somewhat similar fable; the fable
however in this case having been invented to account for the name. [Footnote: See Wright, The
Bible Word Book, s. v. [The word cockatrice is a corrupt form of Late Latin cocodrillus, which
again is a corruption of Latin crocodilus, Gr. [Greek: krokodeilos], a crocodile.]]

It was Eichhorn who first suggested the calling of a certain group of languages, which stand
in a marked contradistinction to the Indo- European or Aryan family, by the common name of
'Semitic.' A word which should include all these was wanting, and this one was handy and has
made its fortune; at the same time implying, as 'Semitic' does, that these are all languages
spoken by races which are descended from Shem, it is eminently calculated to mislead. There
are non-Semitic races, the Phoenicians for example, which have spoken a Semitic language; there
are Semitic races which have not spoken one. Against 'Indo-European' the same objection may
be urged; seeing that several languages are European, that is, spoken within the limits of
Europe, as the Maltese, the Finnish, the Hungarian, the Basque, the Turkish, which lie altogether
outside of this group.

'Gothic' is plainly a misnomer, and has often proved a misleader as well, when applied to a
style of architecture which belongs not to one, but to all the Germanic tribes; which, moreover,
did not come into existence till many centuries after any people called Goths had ceased from
the earth. Those, indeed, who first called this medieval architecture 'Gothic,' had no intention
of ascribing to the Goths the first invention of it, however this language may seem now to
bind up in itself an assertion of the kind. 'Gothic' was at first a mere random name of contempt.
The Goths, with the Vandals, being the standing representatives of the rude in manners and
barbarous in taste, the critics who would fain throw scorn on this architecture as compared
with that classical Italian which alone seemed worthy of their admiration, [Footnote: The name,
as the designation of a style of architecture, came to us from Italy. Thus Fuller in his Worthies:
'Let the Italians deride our English and condemn them for Gothish buildings.' See too a very
curious expression of men's sentiments about Gothic architecture as simply equivalent to barbarous,
in Phillips's New World of Words, 1706, s.v. 'Gothick.'] called it 'Gothic,' meaning rude and
barbarous thereby. We who recognize in this Gothic architecture the most wondrous and consummate
birth of genius in one region of art, find it hard to believe that this was once a mere title
of slight and scorn, and sometimes wrongly assume a reference in the word to the people among
whom first it arose.

'Classical' and 'romantic,' names given to opposing schools of literature and art, contain
an absurd antithesis; and either say nothing at all, or say something erroneous. 'Revival of
Learning' is a phrase only partially true when applied to that mighty intellectual movement
in Western Europe which marked the fifteenth century and the beginning of the sixteenth. A
revival there might be, and indeed there was, of Greek learning at that time; but there could
not be properly affirmed a revival of Latin, inasmuch as it had never been dead; or, even as
those who dissent from this statement must own, had revived nearly two centuries before. 'Renaissance,'
applied in France to the new direction which art took about the age of Francis the First, is
another question-begging word. Very many would entirely deny that the bringing back of an antique
pagan spirit, and of pagan forms as the utterance of this, into Christian art was a 'renaissance'
or new birth of it at all.

But inaccuracy in naming may draw after it more serious mischief in regions more important.
Nowhere is accuracy more vital than in words having to do with the chief facts and objects
of our faith; for such words, as Coleridge has observed, are never inert, but constantly exercise
an immense reactive influence, whether men know it or not, on such as use them, or often hear
them used by others. The so-called 'Unitarians,' claiming by this name of theirs to be asserters
of the unity of the Godhead, claim that which belongs to us by far better right than to them;
which, indeed, belonging of fullest right to us, does not properly belong to them at all. I
should, therefore, without any intention of offence, refuse the name to them; just as I should
decline, by calling those of the Roman Obedience 'Catholics,' to give up the whole question
at issue between them and us. So, also, were I one of them, I should never, however convenient
it might sometimes prove, consent to call the great religious movement of Europe in the sixteenth
century the 'Reformation.' Such in our esteem it was, and in the deepest, truest sense; a shaping
anew of things that were amiss in the Church. But how any who esteem it a disastrous, and,
on their parts who brought it about, a most guilty schism, can consent to call it by this name,
has always surprised me.

Let me urge on you here the importance of seeking in every case to acquaint yourselves with
the circumstances under which any body of men who have played an important part in history,
above all in the history of your own land, obtained the name by which they were afterwards
themselves willing to be known, or which was used for their designation by others. This you
may do as a matter of historical inquiry, and keeping entirely aloof in spirit from the bitterness,
the contempt, the calumny, out of which very frequently these names were first imposed. Whatever
of scorn or wrong may have been at work in them who coined or gave currency to the name, the
name itself can never without serious loss be neglected by any who would truly understand the
moral significance of the thing; for always something, oftentimes much, may be learned from
it. Learn, then, about each one of these names which you meet in your studies, whether it was
one that men gave to themselves; or one imposed on them by others, but never recognized by
them; or one that, first imposed by others, was yet in course of time admitted and allowed
by themselves. We have examples in all these kinds. Thus the 'Gnostics' call themselves such;
the name was of their own devising, and declared that whereof they made their boast; it was
the same with the 'Cavaliers' of our Civil War. 'Quaker,' 'Puritan,' 'Roundhead,' were all,
on the contrary, names devised by others, and never accepted by those to whom they were attached.
To the third class 'Whig' and 'Tory' belong. These were nicknames originally of bitterest party
hate, withdrawn from their earlier use, and fastened by two political bodies in England each
on the other, [Footnote: In North's Examen. p. 321, is a very lively, though not a very impartial,
account of the rise of these names.] the 'Whig' being properly a Scottish covenanter, [Footnote:
[For a full account of the name see Nares, and Todd's Johnson.]] the 'Tory' an Irish bog-trotting
freebooter; while yet these nicknames in tract of time so lost and let go what was offensive
about them, that in the end they were adopted by the very parties themselves. Not otherwise
the German 'Lutherans' were originally so called by their antagonists. [Footnote: Dr. Eck,
one of the earliest who wrote against the Reformation, first called the Reformed 'Lutherani.']
'Methodist,' in like manner, was a title not first taken by the followers of Wesley, but fastened
on them by others, while yet they have been subsequently willing, though with a certain reserve,
to accept and to be known by it. 'Momiers' or 'Mummers,' a name in itself of far greater offence,
has obtained in Switzerland something of the same allowance. Exactly in the same way 'Capuchin'
was at first a jesting nickname, given by the gamins in the streets to that reformed branch
of the Franciscans which afterwards accepted it as their proper designation. It was provoked
by the peaked and pointed hood ('cappuccio,' 'cappucino') which they wore. The story of the
'Gueux,' or 'Beggars,' of Holland, and how they appropriated their name, is familiar, as I
doubt not, to many. [Footnote: [See chapter on Political Nicknames in D'Israeli's Curiosities
of Literature.]]

A 'Premier' or 'Prime Minister,' though unknown to the law of England, is at present one of
the institutions of the country. The acknowledged leadership of one member in the Government
is a fact of only gradual growth in our constitutional history, but one in which the nation
has entirely acquiesced,--nor is there anything invidious now in the title. But in what spirit
the Parliamentary Opposition, having coined the term, applied it first to Sir Robert Walpole,
is plain from some words of his spoken in the House of Commons, Feb. 11, 1742: 'Having invested
me with a kind of mock dignity, and styled me a Prime Minister, they [the Opposition] impute
to me an unpardonable abuse of the chimerical authority which they only created and conferred.'

Now of these titles some undoubtedly, like 'Capuchin' instanced just now, stand in no very
intimate connexion with those who bear them; and such names, though seldom without their instruction,
yet plainly are not so instructive as others, in which the innermost heart of the thing named
so utters itself, that, having mastered the name, we have placed ourselves at the central point,
from whence best to master everything besides. It is thus with 'Gnostic' and 'Gnosticism';
in the prominence given to gnosis or knowledge, as opposed to faith, lies the key to the whole
system. The Greek Church has loved ever to style itself the Holy 'Orthodox' Church, the Latin,
the Holy 'Catholic' Church. Follow up the thoughts which these words suggest. What a world
of teaching they contain; above all when brought into direct comparison and opposition one
with the other. How does all which is innermost in the Greek and Roman mind unconsciously reveal
itself here; the Greek Church regarding as its chief blazon that its speculation is right,
the Latin that its empire is universal. Nor indeed is it merely the Greek and Latin Churches
which utter themselves here, but Greece and Rome in their deepest distinctions, as these existed
from their earliest times. The key to the whole history, Pagan as well as Christian, of each
is in these words. We can understand how the one established a dominion in the region of the
mind which shall never be overthrown, the other founded an empire in the world whose visible
effects shall never be done away. This is an illustrious example; but I am bold to affirm that,
in their degree, all parties, religious and political, are known by names that will repay study;
by names, to understand which will bring us far to an understanding of their strength and their
weakness, their truth and their error, the idea and intention according to which they wrought.
Thus run over in thought a few of those which have risen up in England. 'Puritans,' 'Fifth-Monarchy
men,' 'Seekers,' 'Levellers,' 'Independents,' 'Friends,' 'Rationalists,' 'Latitudnarians,'
'Freethinkers,' these titles, with many more, have each its significance; and would you get
to the heart of things, and thoroughly understand what any of these schools and parties intended,
you must first understand what they were called. From this as from a central point you must
start; even as you must bring back to this whatever further knowledge you may acquire; putting
your later gains, if possible, in subordination to the name; at all events in connexion and
relation with it.

You will often be able to glean information from names, such as, if not always important, will
yet rarely fail to be interesting and instructive in its way. Thus what a record of inventions,
how much of the past history of commerce do they embody and preserve. The 'magnet' has its
name from Magnesia, a district of Thessaly; this same Magnesia, or else another like-named
district in Asia Minor, yielding the medicinal earth so called. 'Artesian' wells are from the
province of Artois in France, where they were long in use before introduced elsewhere. The
'baldachin' or 'baudekin' is from Baldacco, the Italian form of the name of the city of Bagdad,
from whence the costly silk of this canopy originally came. [Footnote: [See Devic's Supplement
to Littre; the Italian l is an attempt to pronounce the Arabic guttural Ghain. In the Middle
Ages Baldacco was often supposed to be the same as 'Babylon'; see Florio's Ital. Dict. (s.v.
baldacca).]] The' bayonet' suggests concerning itself, though perhaps wrongly, that it was
first made at Bayonne--the 'bilbo,' a finely tempered Spanish blade, at Bilbao--the 'carronade'
at the Carron Ironworks in Scotland-- 'worsted' that it was spun at a village not far from
Norwich-- 'sarcenet' that it is a Saracen manufacture--'cambric' that it reached us from Cambray--'copper'
that it drew its name from Cyprus, so richly furnished with mines of this metal--'fustian'
from Fostat, a suburb of Cairo--'frieze' from Friesland--'silk' or 'sericum' from the land
of the Seres or Chinese--'damask' from Damascus--'cassimere' or 'kersemere' from Cashmere--'arras'
from a town like-named--'duffel,' too, from a town near Antwerp so called, which Wordsworth
has immortalized--'shalloon' from Chalons--'jane' from Genoa--'gauze' from Gaza. The fashion
of the 'cravat' was borrowed from the Croats, or Crabats, as this wild irregular soldiery of
the Thirty Years' War used to be called. The 'biggen,' a plain cap often mentioned by our early
writers, was first worn by the Beguines, communities of pietist women in the Low Countries
in the twelfth century. The 'dalmatic' was a garment whose fashion was taken to be borrowed
from Dalmatia. (See Marriott.) England now sends her calicoes and muslins to India and the
East; yet these words give standing witness that we once imported them from thence; for 'calico'
is from Calicut, a town on the coast of Malabar, and 'muslin' from Mossul, a city in Asiatic
Turkey. 'Cordwain' or 'cordovan' is from Cordova--'delf' from Delft--'indigo' (indicum) from
India--'gamboge' from Cambodia--the 'agate' from a Sicilian river, Achates--the 'turquoise'
from Turkey--the 'chalcedony' or onyx from Chalcedon--'jet' from the river Gages in Lycia,
where this black stone is found. [Footnote: In Holland's Pliny, the Greek form 'gagates' is
still retained, though he oftener calls it 'jeat' or 'geat.'] 'Rhubarb' is a corruption of
Rha barbarum, the root from the savage banks of the Rha or Volga--'jalap' is from Jalapa, a
town in Mexico--'tobacco' from the island Tobago--'malmsey' from Malvasia, for long a flourishing
city in the Morea--'sherry,' or 'sherris' as Shakespeare wrote it, is from Xeres--'macassar'
oil from a small Malay kingdom so named in the Eastern Archipelago--'dittany' from the mountain
Dicte, in Crete-- 'parchment' from Pergamum--'majolica' from Majorca--'faience' from the town
named in Italian Faenza. A little town in Essex gave its name to the 'tilbury'; another, in
Bavaria, to the 'landau.' The 'bezant' is a coin of Byzantium; the 'guinea' was originally
coined (in 1663) of gold brought from the African coast so called; the pound 'sterling' was
a certain weight of bullion according to the standard of the Easterlings, or Eastern merchants
from the Hanse Towns on the Baltic. The 'spaniel' is from Spain; the 'barb' is a steed from
Barbary; the pony called a 'galloway' from the county of Galloway in Scotland; the 'tarantula'
is a poisonous spider, common in the neighbourhood of Tarentum. The 'pheasant' reached us from
the banks of the Phasis; the 'bantam' from a Dutch settlement in Java so called; the 'canary'
bird and wine, both from the island so named; the 'peach' (persica) declares itself a Persian
fruit; 'currants' derived their name from Corinth, whence they were mostly shipped; the 'damson'
is the 'damascene' or plum of Damascus; the 'bergamot' pear is named from Bergamo in Italy;
the 'quince' has undergone so many changes in its progress through Italian and French to us,
that it hardly retains any trace of Cydon (malum Cydonium), a town of Crete, from which it
was supposed to proceed. 'Solecisms,' if I may find room for them here, are from Soloe, an
Athenian colony in Cilicia, whose members soon forgot the Attic refinement of speech, and became
notorious for the ungrammatical Greek which they talked.

And as things thus keep record in the names which they bear of the quarters from which they
reached us, so also will they often do of the persons who, as authors, inventors, or discoverers,
or in some other way, stood in near connexion with them. A collection in any language of all
the names of persons which have since become names of things--from nomina apellativa have become
nomina realia--would be very curious and interesting, I will enumerate a few. Where the matter
is not familiar to you, it will not be unprofitable to work back from the word or thing to
the person, and to learn more accurately the connexion between them. The demi-god Atlas figures
with a world upon his shoulders in the title-page of some early works on geography; and has
probably in this way lent to our map-books their name. The 'daric,' a Persian gold coin, very
much of the same value as our own rose noble, had its name from Darius. [Footnote: Pliny, H.
N. xxv. 34.] Glaubers, who has bequeathed his salts to us, was a Dutch chemist of the seventeenth
century. A grammar used to be called a 'donat' or 'donet' (Chaucer), from Donatus, a Roman
grammarian of the fourth century, whose Latin grammar held its place as a school-book during
a large part of the Middle Ages. Othman, more than any other the grounder of the Turkish dominion
in Europe, reappears in our 'Ottoman'; and Tertullian, strangely enough, in the Spanish 'tertulia.'
The beggar Lazarus has given us 'lazar' and 'lazaretto'; Veronica and the legend connected
with her name, a 'vernicle,' being a napkin with the Saviour's face impressed upon it. Simon
Magus gave us 'simony'; this, however, as we understand it now, is not a precise reproduction
of his sin as recorded in Scripture. A common fossil shell is called an 'ammonite' from the
fanciful resemblance to the twisted horns of Jupiter Ammon which was traced in it; Ammon again
appearing in 'ammonia.' Our 'pantaloons' are from St. Pantaleone; he was the patron saint of
the Venetians, who therefore very commonly received Pantaleon as their Christian name; it was
from them transferred to a garment which they much affected. 'Dunce,' as we have seen, is derived
from Duns Scotus. [Footnote: [But derick in the sense of 'gallows' occurs as early as 1606
in Dekker's Seven Deadly Sins of London, ed. Arber, p. 17; see Skeat's Etym. Dict., ed. Dahl,
a Swede, introduced from Mexico the cultivation of the 'dahlia'; the 'fuchsia' is named after
Fuchs, a German botanist of the sixteenth century; the 'magnolia' after Magnol, a distinguished
French botanist of the beginning of the eighteenth; while the 'camelia' was introduced into
Europe from Japan in 1731 by Camel, a member of the Society of Jesus; the 'shaddock' by Captain
Shaddock, who first transplanted this fruit from the West Indies. In 'quassia' we have the
name of a negro sorcerer of Surinam, who in 1730 discovered its properties, and after whom
it was called. An unsavoury jest of Vespasian has attached his name in French to an unsavoury
spot. 'Nicotine,' the poison recently drawn from tobacco, goes back for its designation to
Nicot, a physician, who first introduced the tobacco-plant to the general notice of Europe.
The Gobelins were a family so highly esteemed in France that the manufactory of tapestry which
they had established in Paris did not drop their name, even after it had been purchased and
was conducted by the State. A French Protestant refugee, Tabinet, first made 'tabinet' in Dublin;
another Frenchman, Goulard, a physician of Montpellier, gave his to the soothing lotion, not
unknown in our nurseries. The 'tontine' was conceived by Tonti, an Italian; another Italian,
Galvani, first noted the phenomena of animal electricity or 'galvanism'; while a third, Volta,
lent a title to the 'voltaic' battery. Dolomieu, a French geologist, first called attention
to a peculiar formation of rocks in Eastern Tyrol, called 'dolomites' after him. Colonel Martinet
was a French officer appointed by Louvois as an army inspector; one who did his work excellently
well, but has left a name bestowed often since on mere military pedants. 'Macintosh,' 'doyly,'
'brougham,' 'hansom,' 'to mesmerize,' 'to macadamize,' 'to burke,' 'to boycott,' are all names
of persons or words formed from their names, and then transferred to things or actions, on
the ground of some sort of connexion between the one and the other. A pale green colour is
in French called 'celadon' from a personage of this name, of a feeble and fade tenderness,
who figures in Astree, a popular romance of the seventeenth century. In the 'mansarde' roof
we are reminded of Mansart, the architect who introduced it. In 'marivaudage' the name of Marivaux
is bound up, who was noted for the affected euphuism which goes by this name; very much as
the sophist Gorgias gave [Greek: gorgiazein] to the Greek. The point of contact between the
'fiacre' and St. Fiacre is well known: hackney carriages, when first established in Paris,
waited for their hiring in the court of an hotel which was adorned with an image of the Scottish
saint.] To these I may add 'guillotine,' though Dr. Guillotin did not invent this instrument
of death, even as it is a baseless legend that he died by it. Some improvements in it he made,
and it thus happened that it was called after him.

Nor less shall we find history, at all events literary history, in the noting of the popular
characters in books, who have supplied words that have passed into common speech. 'Chanticleer'
is the name of the cock, and 'Bruin' of the bear in the same poem. [Footnote: See Genin, Des
Variations du Langage Francais, p.12] These have not made fortune to the same extent of actually
putting out of use names which before existed, but contest the right of existence with them.

Occasionally a name will embody and give permanence to an error; as when in 'America' the discovery
of the New World, which belonged to Columbus, is ascribed to another eminent discoverer, but
one who had no title to this honour, even as he was entirely guiltless of any attempt to usurp
it for himself. [Footnote: Humboldt has abundantly shown this (Kosmos, vol. ii. note 457).
He ascribes its general reception to its introduction into a popular work on geography, published
in 1507. The subject has also been very carefully treated by Major, Life of Prince Henry the
Navigator, 1868. pp. 382-388] Our 'turkeys' are not from Turkey, as was assumed by those who
so called them, but from that New World where alone they are native. This error the French
in another shape repeat with their 'dinde' originally 'poulet d'Inde,' or Indian fowl. There
lies in 'gipsy' or Egyptian, the assumption that Egypt was the original home of this strange
people; as was widely believed when they made their first appearance in Europe early in the
fifteenth century. That this, however, was a mistake, their language leaves no doubt; proclaiming
as it does that they are wanderers from a more distant East, an outcast tribe from Hindostan.
'Bohemians' as they are called by the French, testifies to a similar error, to the fact that
at their first apparition in Western Europe they were supposed by the common people in France
to be the expelled Hussites of Bohemia.

Where words have not embodied an error, it will yet sometimes happen that the sound or spelling
will to us suggest one. Against such in these studies it will be well to be on our guard. Thus
many of us have been tempted to put 'domus' and 'dominus' into a connexion which really does
not exist. There has been a stage in most boys' geographical knowledge, when they have taken
for granted that 'Jutland' was so called, not because it was the land of the Jutes, but on
account of its jutting out into the sea in so remarkable a manner. At a much later period of
their education, 'Aborigines,' being the proper name of an Italian tribe, might very easily
lead astray. [Footnote: See Pauly, Encyclop. s. v. Latium.] Who is there that has not mentally
put the Gulf of Lyons in some connexion with the city of the same name? We may be surprised
that the Gulf should have drawn its title from a city so remote and so far inland, but we accept
the fact notwithstanding: the river Rhone, flowing by the one, and disemboguing in the other,
seems to offer to us a certain link of connexion. There is indeed no true connexion at all
between the two. In old texts this Gulf is generally called Sinus Gallicus; in the fourteenth
century a few writers began to call it Sinus Leonis, the Gulf of the Lion, possibly from the
fierceness of its winds and waves, but at any rate by a name having nothing to do with Lyons
on the Rhone. The oak, in Greek [Greek: drys], plays no inconsiderable part in the Ritual of
the Druids; it is not therefore wonderful if most students at one time of their lives have
put the two in etymological relation. The Greeks, who with so characteristic a vanity assumed
that the key to the meaning of words in all languages was to be found in their own, did this
of course. So, too, there have not been wanting those who have traced in the name 'Jove' a
heathen reminiscence of the awful name of Jehovah; while yet, however specious this may seem,
on closer scrutiny the words declare that they have no connexion with one another, any more
than 'Iapetus' and 'Japheth,' or, I may add, than 'God' and 'good,' which yet by an honourable
moral instinct men can hardly refrain from putting into an etymological relation with each other.

Sometimes a falsely-assumed derivation of a word has reacted upon and modified its spelling.
Thus it may have been with 'hurricane.' In the tearing up and hurrying away of the canes in
the sugar plantations by this West-Indian tornado, many have seen an explanation of the name;
just in the same way as the Latin 'calamitas' has been derived from 'calamus,' the stalk of
the corn. In both cases the etymology is faulty; 'hurricane,' originally a Carib word, is only
a transplanting into our tongue of the Spanish 'huracan.'

It is a signal evidence of the conservative powers of language, that we may continually trace
in speech the record of customs and states of society which have now passed so entirely away
as to survive in these words alone. For example, a 'stipulation' or agreement is so called,
as many affirm, from 'stipula,' a straw; and tells of a Roman custom, that when two persons
would make a mutual engagement with one another, [Footnote: See on this disputed point, and
on the relation between the Latin 'stipulatio' and the old German custom not altogether dissimilar,
J. Grimm, Deutsche Rechtsalterthuemer, pp. 121, sqq. [This account of the derivation of 'stipulatio'
is generally given up now; for Greek cognates of the word see Curtius, Greek Etymology, No.
224.]] they would break a straw between them. We all know what fact of English history is laid
up in 'curfew,' or 'couvre-feu.' The 'limner,' or 'illuminer,' for so we find the word in Fuller,
throws us back on a time when the illumination of manuscripts was a leading occupation of the
painter. By 'lumber,' we are reminded that Lombards were the first pawnbrokers, even as they
were the first bankers, in England: a 'lumber'-room being a 'lombard'-room, or a room where
the pawnbroker stored his pledges. [Footnote: See my Select Glossary, s. v. Lumber.] Nor need
I do more than remind you that in our common phrase of 'signing our name,' we preserve a record
of a time when such first rudiments of education as the power of writing, were the portion
of so few, that it was not as now an exception, but the custom, of most persons to make their
mark or 'sign'; great barons and kings themselves not being ashamed to set this sign or cross
to the weightiest documents. To 'subscribe' the name would more accurately express what now
we do. As often as we term arithmetic the science of calculation, we implicitly allude to that
rudimental stage in this science, when pebbles (calculi) were used, as now among savage tribes
they often are, to help the practice of counting; the Greeks made the same use of one word
of theirs ([Greek: psephizein]); while in another ([Greek: pempazein]) they kept record of
a period when the five fingers were so employed. 'Expend,' 'expense,' tell us that money was
once weighed out (Gen. xxiii. 16), not counted out as now; 'pecunia,' 'peculatus,' 'fee' (vieh)
keep record all of a time when cattle were the main circulating medium. In 'library' we preserve
the fact that books were once written on the bark (liber) of trees; in 'volume' that they were
mostly rolls; in 'paper,' that the Egyptian papyrus, 'the paper-reeds by the brooks,' furnished
at one time the ordinary material on which they were written.

Names thus so often surviving things, we have no right to turn an etymology into an argument.
There was a notable attempt to do this in the controversy so earnestly carried on between the
Greek and Latin Churches, concerning the bread, whether it should be leavened or unleavened,
that was used at the Table of the Lord. Those of the Eastern Church constantly urged that the
Greek word for bread (and in Greek was the authoritative record of the first institution of
this sacrament), implied, according to its root, that which was raised or lifted up; not, therefore,
to use a modern term, 'sad' or set, or, in other words, unleavened bread; such rather as had
undergone the process of fermentation. But even if the etymology on which they relied (artos
from airo, to raise) had been as certain as it is questionable, they could draw no argument
of the slightest worth from so remote an etymology, and one which had so long fallen out of
the consciousness of those who employed the word.

Theories too, which long since were utterly renounced, have yet left their traces behind them.
Thus 'good humour.' 'bad humour.' 'humours,' and, strangest contradiction of all, 'dry humour,'
rest altogether on a now exploded, but a very old and widely accepted, theory of medicine;
according to which there were four principal moistures or 'humours' in the natural body, on
the due proportion and combination of which the disposition alike of body and mind depended.
[Footnote: See the Prologue to Ben Jonson's Every Man out of His Humour.] Our present use of
'temper' has its origin in the same theory; the due admixture, or right tempering, of these
humours gave what was called the happy temper, or mixture, which, thus existing inwardly, manifested
itself also outwardly; while 'distemper,' which we still employ in the sense of sickness, was
that evil frame either of a man's body or his mind (for it was used of both), which had its
rise in an unsuitable mingling of these humours. In these instances, as in many more, the great
streams of thought and feeling have changed their course, flowing now in quite other channels
from those which once they filled, but have left these words as abiding memorials of the channels
wherein once they ran. Thus 'extremes,' 'golden mean,' 'category,' 'predicament,' 'axiom,'
'habit'--what are these but a deposit in our ethical terminology which Aristotle has left behind
him?

But we have not exhausted our examples of the way in which the record of old errors, themselves
dismissed long ago, will yet survive in language--being bound up in words that grew into use
when those errors found credit, and that maintain their currency still. The mythology which
Saxon or Dane brought with them from their German or Scandinavian homes is as much extinct
for us as are the Lares, Larvae, and Lemures of heathen Rome; yet the deposit it has permanently
left behind it in the English language is not inconsiderable. 'Lubber,' 'dwarf,' 'oaf,' 'droll,'
'wight,' 'puck,' 'urchin,' 'hag,' 'night-mare,' 'gramary,' 'Old Nick,' 'changeling' (wechselkind),
suggest themselves, as all bequeathed to us by that old Teutonic demonology. [Footnote: [But
the words puck, urchin, gramary, are not of Teutonic origin. The etymology of puck is unknown;
urchin means properly 'a hedgehog,' being the old French ericon (in modern French herisson),
a derivative from the Latin ericius, 'a hedgehog'; gramary is simply Old French gramaire, 'grammar'
= Lat. grammatica (ars), just as Old French mire, 'a medical man' = Lat. medicum.]] Few now
have any faith in astrology, or count that the planet under which a man is born will affect
his temperament, make him for life of a disposition grave or gay, lively or severe. Yet our
language affirms as much; for we speak of men as 'jovial' or 'saturnine,' or 'mercurial'--'jovial,'
as being born under the planet Jupiter or Jove, which was the joyfullest star, and of happiest
augury of all: [Footnote: 'Jovial' in Shakespeare's time (see Cymbeline, act 5, sc. 4) had
not forgotten its connexion with Jove.] a gloomy severe person is said to be 'saturnine,' born,
that is, under the planet Saturn, who makes those that own his influence, having been born
when he was in the ascendant, grave and stern as himself: another we call 'mercurial,' or light-
hearted, as those born under the planet Mercury were accounted to be. The same faith in the
influence of the stars survives in 'disastrous,' 'ill-starred,' 'ascendancy,' 'lord of the
ascendant,' and, indeed, in 'influence' itself. What a record of old speculations, old certainly
as Aristotle, and not yet exploded in the time of Milton, [Footnote: See Paradise Lost, iii.
714-719.] does the word 'quintessence' contain; and 'arsenic' the same; no other namely than
this that metals are of different sexes, some male ([Greek: arsenika]), and some female. Again,
what curious legends belong to the 'sardonic' [Footnote: See an excellent history of this word,
in Rost and Palm's Greek Lexicon, s. v. [Greek: sardonios].] or Sardinian, laugh; a laugh caused,
as was supposed, by a plant growing in Sardinia, of which they who ate, died laughing; to the
'barnacle' goose, [Footnote: For a full and most interesting study on this very curious legend,
see Max Mueller's Lectures on Language, vol. ii. pp. 533-551; [for the etymology of the word
barnacle in this connexion see the New English Dictionary (s. v.).]] to the 'amethyst' esteemed,
as the word implies, a preventive or antidote of drunkenness; and to other words not a few,
which are employed by us still.

A question presents itself here, and one not merely speculative; for it has before now become
a veritable case of conscience with some whether they ought to use words which originally rested
on, and so seem still to affirm, some superstition or untruth. This question has practically
settled itself; the words will keep their ground: but further, they have a right to do this;
for no word need be considered so to root itself in its etymology, and to draw its sap and
strength from thence, that it cannot detach itself from this, and acquire the rights of an
independent existence. And thus our weekly newspapers commit no absurdity in calling themselves
'journals,' or 'diurnals'; and we as little when we name that a 'journey' which occupies not
one, but several days. We involve ourselves in no real contradiction, speaking of a 'quarantine'
of five, ten, or any number of days more or fewer than forty; or of a population 'decimated'
by a plague, though exactly a tenth of it has not perished. A stone coffin may be still a 'sarcophagus,'
without thereby implying that it has any special property of consuming the flesh of bodies
which are laid within it. [Footnote: See Pliny, H. N. ii. 96; xxxvi. 17.] In like manner the
wax of our 'candles' ('candela,' from 'candeo') is not necessarily white; our 'rubrics' retain
their name, though seldom printed in red ink; neither need our 'miniatures' abandon theirs,
though no longer painted with minium or carmine; our 'surplice' is not usually worn over an
undergarment of skins; our 'stirrups' are not ropes by whose aid we climb upon our horses;
nor are 'haversacks' sacks for the carrying of oats; it is not barley or bere only which we
store up in our 'barns,' nor hogs' fat in our 'larders'; a monody need not be sung by a single
voice; and our lucubrations are not always by candlelight; a 'costermonger' or 'costardmonger'
does not of necessity sell costards or apples; there are 'palaces' which are not built on the
Palatine Hill; and 'nausea' [Footnote: [From nausea through the French comes our English noise;
see Bartsch and Horning, Section 90.]] which is not sea-sickness. I remember once asking a
class of school-children, whether an announcement which during one very hard winter appeared
in the papers, of a 'white blackbird' having been shot, might be possibly correct, or was on
the face of it self-contradictory and absurd. The less thoughtful members of the class instantly
pronounced against it; while after a little consideration, two or three made answer that it
might very well be, that, while without doubt the bird had originally obtained this name from
its blackness, yet 'blackbird' was now the name of a species, and a name so cleaving to it,
as not to be forfeited, even when the blackness had quite disappeared. We do not question the
right of the 'New Forest' to retain this title of New, though it has now stood for eight hundred
years; nor of 'Naples' to be New City (Neapolis) still, after an existence three or four times
as long.

It must, then, be esteemed a piece of ethical prudery, and an ignorance of the laws which languages
obey, when the early Quakers refused to employ the names commonly given to the days of the
week, and substituted for these, 'first day,' 'second day,' and so on. This they did, as is
well known, on the ground that it became not Christian men to give that sanction to idolatry
which was involved in the ordinary style--as though every time they spoke of Wednesday they
were rendering homage to Woden, of Thursday to Thor, of Friday to Friga, and thus with the
rest; [ Footnote: It is curious to find Fuller prophesying, a very few years before, that at
some future day such a protest as theirs might actually be raised (Church History, b. ii. cent.
6): 'Thus we see the whole week bescattered with Saxon idols, whose pagan gods were the godfathers
of the days, and gave them their names. This some zealot may behold as the object of a necessary
reformation, desiring to have the days of the week new dipt, and called after other names.
Though, indeed, this supposed scandal will not offend the wise, as beneath their notice; and
cannot offend the ignorant, as above their knowledge.'] or at all events recognizing their
existence. Now it is quite intelligible that the early Christians, living in the midst of a
still rampant heathenism, should have objected, as we know they did, to 'dies Solis,' or Sunday,
to express the first day of the week, their Lord's-Day. But when the later Friends raised their
protest, the case was altogether different. The false gods whose names were bound up in these
words had ceased to be worshipped in England for about a thousand years; the words had wholly
disengaged themselves from their etymologies, of which probably not one in a thousand had the
slightest suspicion. Moreover, had these precisians in speech been consistent, they could not
have stopped where they did. Every new acquaintance with the etymology or primary use of words
would have entangled them in some new embarrassment, would have required a new purging of their
vocabulary. 'To charm,' 'to bewitch,' 'to fascinate,' 'to enchant,' would have been no longer
lawful words for those who had outlived the belief in magic, and in the power of the evil eye;
nor 'lunacy,' nor 'lunatic,' for such as did not count the moon to have anything to do with
mental unsoundness; nor 'panic' fear, for those who believed that the great god Pan was indeed
dead; nor 'auguries,' nor 'auspices,' for those to whom divination was nothing; while to speak
of 'initiating' a person into the 'mysteries' of an art, would have been utterly heathenish
language. Nay, they must have found fault with the language of Holy Scripture itself; for a
word of honourable use in the New Testament expressing the function of an interpreter, and
reappearing in our 'hermeneutics,' is directly derived from and embodies the name of Hermes,
a heathen deity, and one who did not, like Woden, Thor, and Friga, pertain to a long extinct
mythology, but to one existing in its strength at the very time when he wrote. And how was
it, as might have been fairly asked, that St. Paul did not protest against a Christian woman
retaining the name of Phoebe (Rom. xvi. I), a goddess of the same mythology?

The rise and fall of words, the honour which in tract of time they exchanged for dishonour,
and the dishonour for honour--all which in my last lecture I contemplated mainly from an ethical
point of view--is in a merely historic aspect scarcely less remarkable. Very curious is it
to watch the varying fortune of words--the extent to which it has fared with them, as with
persons and families; some having improved their position in the world, and attained to far
higher dignity than seemed destined for them at the beginning, while others in a manner quite
as notable have lost caste, have descended from their high estate to common and even ignoble
uses. Titles of dignity and honour have naturally a peculiar liability to be some lifted up,
and some cast down. Of words which have risen in the world, the French 'marechal' affords us
an excellent example. 'Marechal,' as Howell has said, 'at first was the name of a smith-farrier,
or one that dressed horses'--which indeed it is still--'but it climbed by degrees to that height
that the chiefest commanders of the gendarmery are come to be called marshals.' But if this
has risen, our 'alderman' has fallen. Whatever the civic dignity of an alderman may now be,
still it must be owned that the word has lost much since the time that the 'alderman' was only
second in rank and position to the king. Sometimes a word will keep or even improve its place
in one language, while at the same time it declines from it in another. Thus 'demoiselle' (dominicella)
cannot be said to have lost ground in French, however 'donzelle' may; while 'damhele,' being
the same word, designates in Walloon the farm-girl who minds the cows. [Footnote: See Littre,
Etudes et Glanures, p. 16; compare p. 30. Elsewhere he says: Les mots ont leurs decheances
comme les families.] 'Pope' is the highest ecclesiastical dignitary in the Latin Church; every
parish priest is a 'pope' in the Greek. 'Queen' (gunae) has had a double fortune. Spelt as
above it has more than kept the dignity with which it started, being the title given to the
lady of the kingdom; while spelt as 'quean' it is a designation not untinged with contempt.
[Footnote: [Queen and quean are not merely different spellings of the same Old English word;
for queen represents Anglo- Saxon cwe:n, Gothic qens, whereas quean is the phonetic equivalent
of Anglo-Saxon cwene Gothic qino]] 'Squatter' remains for us in England very much where it
always was; in Australia it is now the name by which the landed aristocracy are willing to
be known. [Footnote: Dilke, Greater Britain, vol. ii. p. 40]

After all which has thus been adduced, you will scarcely deny that we have a right to speak
of a history in words. Now suppose that the pieces of money which in the intercourse and traffic
of daily life are passing through our hands continually, had each one something of its own
that made it more or less worthy of note; if on one was stamped some striking maxim, on another
some important fact, on the third a memorable date; if others were works of finest art, graven
with rare and beautiful devices, or bearing the head of some ancient sage or hero king; while
others, again, were the sole surviving monuments of mighty nations that once filled the world
with their fame; what a careless indifference to our own improvement--to all which men hitherto
had felt or wrought--would it argue in us, if we were content that these should come and go,
should stay by us or pass from us, without our vouchsafing to them so much as one serious regard.
Such a currency there is, a currency intellectual and spiritual of no meaner worth, and one
with which we have to transact so much of the higher business of our lives. Let us take care
that we come not in this matter under the condemnation of any such incurious indifference as
that which I have imagined.

LECTURE V.

ON THE RISE OF NEW WORDS.

If I do not much mistake, you will find it not a little interesting to follow great and significant
words to the time and place of their birth. And not these alone. The same interest, though
perhaps not in so high a degree, will cleave to the upcoming of words not a few that have never
played a part so important in the world's story. A volume might be written such as few would
rival in curious interest, which should do no more than indicate the occasion upon which new
words, or old words employed in a new sense--being such words as the world subsequently heard
much of--first appeared; with quotation, where advisable, of the passages in proof. A great
English poet, too early lost, 'the young Marcellus of our tongue,' as Dryden so finely calls
him, has very grandly described the emotion of

     'some watcher of the skies,
      When a new planet swims into his ken.'

Not very different will be our feeling, as we watch, at the moment of its rising above the
horizon, some word destined, it may be, to play its part in the world's story, to take its
place for ever among the luminaries in the moral and intellectual firmament above us.

But a caution is necessary here. We must not regard as certain in every case, or indeed in
most cases, that the first rise of a word will have exactly consented in time with its first
appearance within the range of our vision. Such identity will sometimes exist; and we may watch
i the actual birth of some word, and may affirm with confidence that at such a time and on
such an occasion it first saw the light--in this book, or from the lips of that man. Of another
we can only say, About this time and near about this spot it first came into being, for we
first meet it in such an author and under such and such conditions. So mere a fragment of ancient
literature has come down to us, that, while the earliest appearance there of a word is still
most instructive to note, it cannot in all or in nearly all cases be affirmed to mark the exact
moment of its nativity. And even in the modern world we must in most instances be content to
fix a period, we may perhaps add a local habitation, within the limits of which the term must
have been born, either in legitimate scientific travail, or the child of some flash of genius,
or the product of some generatio aequivoca, the necessary result of exciting predisposing causes;
at the same time seeking by further research ever to narrow more and more the limits within
which this must have happened.

To speak first of words religious and ecclesiastical. Very noteworthy,
and in some sort epoch-making, must be regarded the first appearance of
the following:--'Christian'; [Footnote: Acts xi. 26.] 'Trinity';
[Footnote: Tertullian, Adv. Prax. 3.] 'Catholic,' as applied to the
Church; [Footnote: Ignatius, Ad Smyrn. 8.] 'canonical,' as a
distinctive title of the received Scriptures; [Footnote: Origen, Opp.
vol. iii. p. 36 (ed. De la Rue).] 'New Testament,' as describing the
complex of the sacred books of the New Covenant; [Footnote: Tertullian,
Adv. Marc. iv. I; Adv. Prax. xv. 20.] 'Gospels,' as applied to the
four inspired records of the life and ministry of our Lord. [Footnote:
Justin Martyr, Apol. i. 66.] We notice, too, with interest, the
first coming up of 'monk' and 'nun,' [Footnote: 'Nun' (nonna) first
appears in Jerome (Ad Eustoch. Ep. 22); 'monk' (monachus) a little
earlier: Rutilius, a Latin versifier of the fifth century, who still
clung to the old Paganism, gives the derivation:
     Ipsi se monachos Graio cognomine dicunt,
     Quod soli nullo vivere teste volunt.] marking as they do the
beginnings of the monastic system;--of 'transubstantiation,' [Footnote:
Hildebert, Archbishop of Tours (d. 1134), is the first to use it
(Serm. 93).] of 'concomitance,' [Footnote: Thomas Aquinas is
reported to have been the first to use this word.] expressing as does
this word the grounds on which the medieval Church defended communion
in one kind only for the laity; of 'limbo' in its theological
sense; [Footnote: Thomas Aquinas first employs 'limbus' in this sense.]
witnessing as these do to the consolidation of errors which had long
been floating in the Church.

Not of so profound an interest, but still very instructive to note, is the earliest apparition
of names historical and geographical, above all of such as have since been often on the lips
of men; as the first mention in books of 'Asia'; [Footnote: Aeschylus, Prometheus Vinctus,
412.] of 'India'; [Footnote: Id. Suppl. 282.] of 'Europe'; [Footnote: Herodotus, iv. 36.] of
'Macedonia'; [Footnote: Id. v. 17.] of 'Greeks'; [Footnote: Aristotle, Meteor, i. 14. But his
Graikoi are only an insignificant tribe, near Dodona. How it came to pass that Graeci, or Graii,
was the Latin name by which all the Hellenes were known, must always remain a mystery.] of
'Germans' and 'Germany'; [Footnote: Probably first in the Commentaries of Caesar; see Grimm,
Gesch. d. Deutschen Sprache, p. 773.] of 'Alemanni'; [Footnote: Spartian, Caracalla, c. 9.]
of 'Franks'; [Footnote: Vopiscus, Aurel. 7; about A.D. 240.] of 'Prussia' and 'Prussians';
[Footnote: 'Pruzia' and 'Pruzzi' first appear in the Life of S. Adalbert, written by his fellow-labourer
Gaudentius, between 997-1006.] of 'Normans'; [Footnote: The Geographer of Ravenna.] the earliest
notice by any Greek author of Rome; [Footnote: Probably in Hellanicus, a contemporary of Herodotus.]
the first use of 'Italy' as comprehending the entire Hesperian peninsula; [Footnote: In the
time of Augustus Caesar; see Niebuhr, History of Rome, Engl. Translation, vol. i. p. 12.] of
'Asia Minor' to designate Asia on this side Taurus. [Footnote: Orosius, i. 2: in the fifth
century of our era.] 'Madagascar' may hereafter have a history, which will make it interesting
to know that this name was first given, so far as we can trace, by Marco Polo to the huge African
island. Neither can we regard with indifference the first giving to the newly-discovered continent
in the West the name of 'America'; and still less should we Englishmen fail to take note of
the date when this island exchanged its earlier name of Britain for 'England'; or again, when
it resumed 'Great Britain' as its official designation. So also, to confirm our assertion by
examples from another quarter, it cannot be unprofitable to mark the exact moment at which
'tyrant' and 'tyranny,' forming so distinct an epoch as this did in the political history of
Greece, first appeared; [Footnote: In the writings of Archilochus, about 700 B.C. A 'tyrant'
was not for Greeks a bad king, who abused a rightful position to purposes of lust or cruelty
or other wrong. It was of the essence of a 'tyrant' that he had attained supreme dominion through
a violation of the laws and liberties of the state; having done which, whatever the moderation
of his after-rule, he would not escape the name. Thus the mild and bounteous Pisistratus was
'tyrant' of Athens, while a Christian II. of Denmark, 'the Nero of the North,' would not in
Greek eyes have been one. It was to their honour that they did not allow the course of the
word to be arrested or turned aside by occasional or partial exceptions in the manner of the
exercise of this ill-gotten dominion; but in the hateful secondary sense which 'tyrant' with
them acquired, and which has passed over to us, the moral conviction, justified by all experience,
spake out, that the ill-gotten would be ill-kept; that the 'tyrant' in the earlier sense of
the word, dogged by suspicion, fear, and an evil conscience, must, by an almost inevitable
law, become a 'tyrant' in our later sense of the word.] or again, when, and from whom, the
fabric of the external universe first received the title of 'cosmos,' or beautiful order; [
Footnote: Pythagoras, born B.C. 570, is said to have been the first who made this application
of the word. For much of interest on its history see Humboldt, Kosmos, 1846, English edit.,
vol. i. p. 371.] a name not new in itself, but new in this application of it; with much more
of the same kind.

Let us go back to one of the words just named, and inquire what may be learned from acquaintance
with the time and place of its first appearance. It is one the coming up of which has found
special record in the Book of life: 'The disciples,' as St. Luke expressly tells us, 'were
called Christians first in Antioch' (Acts xi. 26). That we have here a notice which we would
not willingly have missed all will acknowledge, even as nothing can be otherwise than curious
which relates to the infancy of the Church. But there is here much more than an interesting
notice. Question it a little closer, and how much it will be found to contain, how much which
it is waiting to yield up. What light it throws on the whole story of the apostolic Church
to know where and when this name of 'Christians' was first imposed on the faithful; for imposed
by adversaries it certainly was, not devised by themselves, however afterwards they may have
learned to glory in it as the name of highest dignity and honour. They did not call themselves,
but, as is expressly recorded, they 'were called,' Christians first at Antioch; in agreement
with which statement, the name occurs nowhere in Scripture, except on the lips of those alien
from, or opposed to, the faith (Acts xxvi. 28; I Pet. iv. 16). And as it was a name imposed
by adversaries, so among these adversaries it was plainly heathens, and not Jews, who were
its authors; for Jews would never have called the followers of Jesus of Nazareth, 'Christians,'
or those of Christ, the very point of their opposition to Him being, that He was not the Christ,
but a false pretender to the name. [Footnote: Compare Tacitus (Annal, xv. 24): Quos vulgus
... Christianos appellabat. It is curious too that, although a Greek word and coined in a Greek
city, the termination is Latin. Christianos is formed on the model of Romanus, Albanus, Pompeianus,
and the like.]

Starting then from this point, that 'Christians' was a title given to the disciples by the
heathen, what may we deduce from it further? At Antioch they first obtained this name--at the
city, that is, which was the head-quarters of the Church's missions to the heathen, in the
same sense as Jerusalem had been the head-quarters of the mission to the seed of Abraham. It
was there, and among the faithful there, that a conviction of the world-wide destination of
the Gospel arose; there it was first plainly seen as intended for all kindreds of the earth.
Hitherto the faithful in Christ had been called by their adversaries, and indeed often were
still called, 'Galileans,' or 'Nazarenes,'--both names which indicated the Jewish cradle wherein
the Church had been nursed, and that the world saw in the new Society no more than a Jewish
sect. But it was plain that the Church had now, even in the world's eyes, chipped its Jewish
shell. The name 'Christians,' or those of Christ, while it told that Christ and the confession
of Him was felt even by the heathen to be the sum and centre of this new faith, showed also
that they comprehended now, not all which the Church would be, but something of this; saw this
much, namely, that it was no mere sect and variety of Judaism, but a Society with a mission
and a destiny of its own. Nor will the thoughtful reader fail to observe that the coming up
of this name is by closest juxtaposition connected in the sacred narrative, and still more
closely in the Greek than in the English, with the arrival at Antioch, and with the preaching
there, of that Apostle, who was God's appointed instrument for bringing the Church to a full
sense that the message which it had, was not for some men only, but for all. As so often happens
with the rise of new names, the rise of this one marked a new epoch in the Church's life, and
that it was entering upon a new stage of its development. [Footnote: Renan (Les Apotres pp.
233-236) has much instruction on this matter. I quote a few words; though even in them the
spirit in which the whole book is conceived does not fail to make itself felt: L'heure ou une
creation nouvelle recoit son nom est solennelle; car le nom est le signe definitif de l'existence.
C'est par le nom qu'un etre individuel ou collectif devient lui-meme, et sort d'un autre. La
formation du mot 'chretien' marque ainsi la date precise ou l'Eglise de Jesus se separa du
judaisme.... Le christianisme est completement detache du sein de sa mere; la vraie pensee
de Jesus a triomphe de l'indecision de ses premiers disciples; l'Eglise de Jerusalem est depassee;
l'Arameen, la langue de Jesus, est inconnue a une partie de son ecole; le christianisme parle
grec; il est lance definitivement dans le grand tourbillon du monde grec et romain; d'ou il
ne sortira plus.] It is a small matter, yet not without its own significance, that the invention
of this name is laid by St. Luke,--for so, I think, we may confidently say,--to the credit
of the Antiochenes. Now the idle, frivolous, and witty inhabitants of the Syrian capital were
noted in all antiquity for the invention of nicknames; it was a manufacture for which their
city was famous. And thus it was exactly the place where beforehand we might have expected
that such a title, being a nickname or little better in their mouths who devised it should
first come into being.

This one example is sufficient to show that new words will often repay any amount of attention
which we may bestow upon them, and upon the conditions under which they were born. I proceed
to consider the causes which suggest or necessitate their birth, the periods when a language
is most fruitful in them, the sources from which they usually proceed, with some other interesting
phenomena about them.

And first of the causes which give them birth. Now of all these causes the noblest is this--namely,
that in the appointments of highest Wisdom there are epochs in the world's history, in which,
more than at other times, new moral and spiritual forces are at work, stirring to their central
depths the hearts of men. When it thus fares with a people, they make claims on their language
which were never made on it before. It is required to utter truths, to express ideas, remote
from it hitherto; for which therefore the adequate expression will naturally not be forthcoming
at once, these new thoughts and feelings being larger and deeper than any wherewith hitherto
the speakers of that tongue had been familiar. It fares with a language then, as it would fare
with a river bed, suddenly required to deliver a far larger volume of waters than had hitherto
been its wont. It would in such a case be nothing strange, if the waters surmounted their banks,
broke forth on the right hand and on the left, forced new channels with a certain violence
for themselves. Something of the kind they must do. Now it was exactly thus that it fared--for
there could be no more illustrious examples--with the languages of Greece and Rome, when it
was demanded of them that they should be vehicles of the truths of revelation.

These languages, as they already existed, might have sufficed, and did suffice, for heathenism,
sensuous and finite; but they did not suffice for the spiritual and infinite, for the truths
at once so new and so mighty which claimed now to find utterance in the language of men. And
thus it continually befell, that the new thought must weave a new garment for itself, those
which it found ready made being narrower than that it could wrap itself in them; that the new
wine must fashion new vessels for itself, if both should be preserved, the old being neither
strong enough, nor expansive enough, to hold it. [ Footnote: Renan, speaking on this matter,
says of the early Christians: La langue leur faisait defaut. Le Grec et le Semitique les trahissaient
egalement. De la cette enorme violence que le Christianisme naissant fit au langage (Les Apotres,
p. 71)] Thus, not to speak of mere technical matters, which would claim an utterance, how could
the Greek language possess a word for 'idolatry,' so long as the sense of the awful contrast
between the worship of the living God and of dead things had not risen up in their minds that
spoke it? But when Greek began to be the native language of men, to whom this distinction between
the Creator and the creature was the most earnest and deepest conviction of their souls, words
such as 'idolatry,' 'idolater,' of necessity appeared. The heathen did not claim for their
deities to be 'searchers of hearts,' did not disclaim for them the being 'accepters of persons';
such attributes of power and righteousness entered not into their minds as pertaining to the
objects of their worship. The Greek language, therefore, so long as they only employed it,
had not the words corresponding. [Footnote: [Greek: Prosopolaeptaes, kardiognostaes.]] It,
indeed, could not have had them, as the Jewish Hellenistic Greek could not be without them.
How useful a word is 'theocracy'; what good service it has rendered in presenting a certain
idea clearly and distinctly to the mind; yet where, except in the bosom of the same Jewish
Greek, could it have been born? [Footnote: We preside at its birth in a passage of Josephus,
Con. Apion. ii. 16.]

These difficulties, which were felt the most strongly when the thought and feeling that had
been at home in the Hebrew, the original language of inspiration, needed to be transferred
into Greek, reappeared, though not in quite so aggravated a form, when that which had gradually
woven for itself in the Greek an adequate clothing, again demanded to find a suitable garment
in the Latin. An example of the difficulty, and of the way in which the difficulty was ultimately
overcome, will illustrate this far better than long disquisitions. The classical language of
Greece had a word for 'saviour' which, though often degraded to unworthy uses, bestowed as
a title of honour not merely on the false gods of heathendom, but sometimes on men, such as
better deserved to be styled 'destroyers' than 'saviours' of their fellows, was yet in itself
not unequal to the setting forth the central office and dignity of Him, who came into the world
to save it. The word might be likened to some profaned temple, which needed a new consecration,
but not to be abolished, and another built in its room. With the Latin it was otherwise. The
language seemed to lack a word, which on one account or another Christians needed continually
to utter: indeed Cicero, than whom none could know better the resources of his own tongue,
remarkably enough had noted its want of any single equivalent to the Greek 'saviour.' [Footnote:
Hoc [Greek: soter] quantum est? ita magnum ut Latine uno verbo exprimi non possit.] 'Salvator'
would have been the natural word; but the classical Latin of the best times, though it had
'salus' and 'salvus,' had neither this, nor the verb 'salvare'; some, indeed, have thought
that 'salvare' had always existed in the common speech. 'Servator' was instinctively felt to
be insufficient, even as 'Preserver' would for us fall very short of uttering all which 'Saviour'
does now. The seeking of the strayed, the recovery of the lost, the healing of the sick, would
all be but feebly and faintly suggested by it, if suggested at all. God 'preserveth man and
beast,' but He is the 'Saviour' of his own in a more inward and far more endearing sense. It
was long before the Latin Christian writers extricated themselves from this embarrassment,
for the 'Salutificator' of Tertullian, the 'Sospitator' of another, assuredly did not satisfy
the need. The strong good sense of Augustine finally disposed of the difficulty. He made no
scruple about using 'Salvator'; observing with a true insight into the conditions under which
new words should be admitted, that however 'Salvator' might not have been good Latin before
the Saviour came, He by his coming and by the work had made it such; for, as shadows wait upon
substances, so words wait upon things. [Footnote: Serm. 299. 6: Christus Jesus, id est Christus
Salvator: hoc est enim Latine Jesus. Nec quaerant grammatici quam sit Latinum, sed Christiani,
quam verum. Salus enim Latinum nomen est; salvare et salvator non fuerunt haec Latina, antequam
veniret Salvator: quando ad Latinos venit, et haec Latina fecit. Cf. De Trin. 13. 10: Quod
verbum [salvator] Latina lingua antea non habebat, sed habere poterat; sicut potuit quando
voluit. Other words which we owe to Christian Latin, probably to the Vulgate or to the earlier
Latin translations, are these--'carnalis,' 'clarifico,' 'compassio,' 'deitas' (Augustine, Civ.
Dei, 7. i), 'glorifico,' 'idololatria,' 'incarnatio,' 'justifico,' 'justificatio,' 'longanimitas,'
'mortifico,' 'magnalia,' 'mundicors,' 'passio,' 'praedestinatio,' 'refrigerium' (Ronsch, Vulgata,
p. 321), 'regeneratio,' 'resipiscentia,' 'revelatio,' 'sanctificatio,' 'soliloquium,' 'sufficientia,'
'supererogatio,' 'tribulatio.' Many of these may seem barbarous to the Latin scholar, but there
is hardly one of them which does not imply a new thought, or a new feeling, or the sense of
a new relation of man to God or to his fellow-man. Strange too and significant that heathen
Latin could get as far as 'peccare' and 'peccatum,' but stopped short of 'peccator' and 'peccatrix.']
Take another example. It seemed so natural a thing, in the old heathen world, to expose infants,
where it was not found convenient to rear them, the crime excited so little remark, was so
little regarded as a crime at all, that it seemed not worth the while to find a name for it;
and thus it came to pass that the word 'infanticidium' was first born in the bosom of the Christian
Church, Tertullian being the earliest in whose writings it appears.

Yet it is not only when new truth, moral or spiritual, has thus to fit itself to the lips of
men, that such enlargements of speech become necessary: but in each further unfolding of those
seminal truths implanted in man at the first, in each new enlargement of his sphere of knowledge,
outward or inward, the same necessities make themselves felt. The beginnings and progressive
advances of moral philosophy in Greece, [Footnote: See Lobeck, Phrynichus, p. 350.] the transplantation
of the same to Rome, the rise of the scholastic, and then of the mystic, theology in the Middle
Ages, the discoveries of modern science and natural philosophy, these each and all have been
accompanied with corresponding extensions in the domain of language. Of the words to which
each of these has in turn given birth, many, it is true, have never travelled beyond their
own peculiar sphere, having remained purely technical, or scientific, or theological to the
last; but many, too, have passed over from the laboratory and the school, from the cloister
and the pulpit, into everyday use, and have, with the ideas which they incorporate, become
the common heritage of all. For however hard and repulsive a front any study or science may
present to the great body of those who are as laymen in regard of it, there is yet inevitably
such a detrition as this continually going forward, and one which it would be well worth while
to trace in detail.

Where the movement is a popular one, stirring the heart and mind of a people to its depths,
there these new words will for the most part spring out of their bosom, a free spontaneous
birth, seldom or never capable of being referred to one man more than another, because in a
manner they belong to all. Where, on the contrary, the movement is more strictly theological,
or has for its sphere those regions of science and philosophy, where, as first pioneers and
discoverers, only a few can bear their part, there the additions to the language and extensions
of it will lack something of the freedom, the unconscious boldness, which mark the others.
Their character will be more artificial, less spontaneous, although here also the creative
genius of a single man, as there of a nation, will oftentimes set its mark; and many a single
word will come forth, which will be the result of profound meditation, or of intuitive genius,
or of both in happiest combination--many a word, which shall as a torch illuminate vast regions
comparatively obscure before, and, it may be, cast its rays far into the yet unexplored darkness
beyond; or which, summing up into itself all the acquisitions in a particular direction of
the past, shall furnish a mighty vantage- ground from which to advance to new conquests in
those realms of mind or of nature, not as yet subdued to the intellect and uses of man.

'Cosmopolite' has often now a shallow or even a mischievous use; and he who calls himself 'cosmopolite'
may mean no more than that he is not a patriot, that his native country does not possess his
love. Yet, as all must admit, he could have been no common man who, before the preaching of
the Gospel, launched this word upon the world, and claimed this name for himself. Nor was he
a common man; for Diogenes the Cynic, whose sayings are among quite the most notable in antiquity,
was its author. Being demanded of what city or country he was, Diogenes answered that he was
a 'cosmopolite'; in this word widening the range of men's thoughts, bringing in not merely
a word new to Greek ears, but a thought which, however commonplace and familiar to us now,
must have been most novel and startling to those whom he addressed. I am far from asserting
that contempt for his citizenship in its narrower sense may not have mingled with this his
challenge for himself of a citizenship wide as the world; but there was not the less a very
remarkable reaching out here after truths which were not fully born into the world until He
came, in whom and in whose Church all national differences and distinctions are done away.

As occupying somewhat of a middle place between those more deliberate word-makers and the multitude
whose words rather grow of themselves than are made, we must not omit him who is a maker by
the very right of his name--I mean, the poet. That creative energy with which he is endowed,
'the high-flying liberty of conceit proper to the poet,' will not fail to manifest itself in
this region as in others. Extending the domain of thought and feeling, he will scarcely fail
to extend that also of language, which does not willingly lag behind. And the loftier his moods,
the more of this maker he will be. The passion of such times, the all-fusing imagination, will
at once suggest and justify audacities in speech, upon which in calmer moods he would not have
ventured, or, venturing, would have failed to carry others with him: for it is only the fluent
metal that runs easily into novel shapes and moulds. Nor is it merely that the old and the
familiar will often become new in the poet's hands; that he will give the stamp of allowance,
as to him will be free to do, to words which hitherto have lived only on the lips of the people,
or been confined to some single dialect and province; but he will enrich his native tongue
with words unknown and non-existent before--non-existent, that is, save in their elements;
for in the historic period of a language it is not permitted to any man to do more than work
on pre-existent materials; to evolve what is latent therein, to combine what is apart, to recall
what has fallen out of sight.

But to return to the more deliberate coining of words. New necessities have within the last
few years called out several of these deliberate creations in our own language. The almost
simultaneous discovery of such large abundance of gold in so many quarters of the world led
some nations so much to dread an enormous depreciation of this metal, that they ceased to make
it the standard of value--Holland for instance did so for a while, though she has since changed
her mind; and it has been found convenient to invent a word, 'to demonetize' to express this
process of turning a precious metal from being the legal standard into a mere article of commerce.
So, too, diplomacy has recently added more than one new word to our vocabulary. I suppose nobody
ever heard of 'extradition' till within the last few years; nor of 'neutralization' except,
it might be, in some treatise upon chemistry, till in the treaty of peace which followed the
Crimean War the 'neutralization' of the Black Sea was made one of the stipulations. 'Secularization,'
in like manner, owes its birth to the long and weary negotiations which preceded the Treaty
of Westphalia (1648). Whenever it proved difficult to find anywhere else compensation for some
powerful claimant, there was always some abbey or bishopric which with its revenues might be
seized, stripped of its ecclesiastical character, and turned into a secular possession. Our
manifold points of contact with the East, the necessity that has thus arisen of representing
oriental words to the western world by means of an alphabet not its own, with the manifold
discussions on the fittest equivalents, all this has brought with it the need of a word which
should describe the process, and 'transliteration' is the result.

We have long had 'assimilation' in our dictionaries; 'dissimilation' has as yet scarcely found
its way into them, but it speedily will. [It has already appeared in our books on language.
[Footnote: See Skeat's Etym. Dict. (s. v. truffle). Pott (Etym. Forsch. vol. ii. p. 65) introduced
the word 'dissimilation' into German.]] Advances in philology have rendered it a matter of
necessity that we should possess a term to designate a certain process which words unconsciously
undergo, and no other would designate it at all so well. In the same way the Italians prefer
'veleno' to 'veneno'; the Germans 'kartoffel' to 'tartueffel,' from Italian 'tartufola' = Latin
terrae tuber, an old name of the potato; and we 'cinnamon' to 'cinnamom' (the earlier form).

But it is not merely new things which will require new names. It will
often be discovered that old things have not got a name at all, or,
having one, are compelled to share it with something else, often to the
serious embarrassment of both. The manner in which men become aware of
such deficiencies, is commonly this. Comparing their own language with
another, and in some aspects a richer, compelled, it may be, to such
comparison through having undertaken to transfer treasures of that
language into their own, they become conscious of much worthy to be
uttered in human speech, and plainly utterable therein, since another
language has found utterance for it; but which hitherto has found no
voice in their own. Hereupon with more or less success they proceed to
supply the deficiency. Hardly in any other way would the wants in this
way revealed make themselves felt even by the most thoughtful; for
language is to so large an extent the condition and limit of thought,
men are so little accustomed, indeed so little able, to contemplate
things, except through the intervention, and by the machinery, of words,
that the absence of words from a language almost necessarily brings
with it the absence of any sense of that absence. Here is one advantage
of acquaintance with other languages besides our own, and of the
institution that will follow, if we have learned those other to any
profit, of such comparisons, namely, that we thus become aware that
names are not, and least of all the names in any one language, co-
extensive with things (and by 'things' I mean subjects as well as
objects of thought, whatever one can think about), that innumerable
things and aspects of things exist, which, though capable of being
resumed and connoted in a word, are yet without one, unnamed and
unregistered; and thus, vast as may be the world of names, that the
world of realities, and of realities which are nameable, is vaster
still. Such discoveries the Romans made, when they sought to transplant
the moral philosophy of Greece to an Italian soil. They discovered that
many of its terms had no equivalents with them; which equivalents
thereupon they proceeded to devise for themselves, appealing for this
to the latent capabilities of their own tongue. For example, the Greek
schools had a word, and one playing no unimportant part in some of
their philosophical systems, to express 'apathy' or the absence of all
passion and pain. As it was absolutely necessary to possess a
corresponding word, Cicero invented 'indolentia,' as that 'if I may so
speak' with which he paves the way to his first introduction of it,
sufficiently declares. [Footnote: Fin. ii. 4; and for 'qualitas' see
Acad. i. 6.] Sometimes, indeed, such a skilful mint-master of words,
such a subtle watcher and weigher of their force as was Cicero,
[Footnote: Ille verborum vigilantissimus appensor ac mensor, as
Augustine happily terms him.] will have noticed even apart from this
comparison with other languages, an omission in his own, which
thereupon he will endeavour to supply. Thus the Latin had two
adjectives which, though not kept apart as strictly as they might have
been, possessed each its peculiar meaning, 'invidus' one who is envious,
'invidiosus' one who excites envy in others; [Footnote: Thus the
monkish line:
     Invidiosus ego, non invidus esse laboro.] at the same time
there was only one substantive, 'invidia' the correlative of them both;
with the disadvantage, therefore, of being employed now in an active,
now in a passive sense, now for the envy which men feel, and now for
the envy which they excite. The word he saw was made to do double duty;
under a seeming unity there lurked a real dualism, from which manifold
confusions might follow. He therefore devised 'invidentia,' to express
the active envy, or the envying, no doubt desiring that 'invidia'
should be restrained to the passive, the being envied. 'Invidentia' to
all appearance supplied a real want; yet Cicero himself did not succeed
in giving it currency; does not seem himself to have much cared to
employ it again. [Footnote: Tusc. iii. 9; iv. 8; cf. Doederlein,
Synon. vol. iii, p. 68.] We see by this example that not every word,
which even an expert in language proposes, finds acceptance; [Footnote:
Quintilian's advice, based on this fact, is good (i. 6. 42): Etiamsi
potest nihil peccare, qui utitur iis verbis quae summi auctores
tradiderunt, multum tamen refert non solum quid dixerint, sed etiam
quid persuaserint. He himself, as he informs us, invented 'vocalitas'
to correspond with the Greek [Greek: euphonia] (Instit. i. 5. 24),
but I am not conscious that he found any imitators here.] for, as
Dryden, treating on this subject, has well observed, 'It is one thing
to draw a bill, and another to have it accepted.' Provided some words
live, he must be content that others should fall to the ground and die.