The fame of Bernini extended to other lands, and he was invited to France, where he went when
sixty-eight years old, accompanied by one of his sons and a numerous retinue. He was loaded
with favors, and received large sums of money and many valuable presents. In Rome, too, he
was much favored; he held several church benefices, and his son was made a Canon of Santa Maria
Maggiore; and it was in this church that Bernini was buried with great magnificence, as became
his position and his wealth, for he left the immense fortune of four hundred thousand Roman crowns.

Bernini had great versatility of talent, a remarkable imagination and power of conceiving his
subjects clearly, and, more than all, he had marvellous power of execution and compelling his
marble to show forth his thought. It has been said that marble was like wax or clay beneath
his hand. He was subject to no rules; indeed, he believed that an artist must set aside all
rules if he would excel. This sounds very fascinating, but a study of Bernini's works will
show that it is a deceitful maxim. A man of small talent could do nothing in this way, and
even Bernini, who without doubt had great gifts, often failed to make up in any way for the
sins against rules of which he was guilty. Westmacott, in his writing upon sculpture, says
it would have been better for art if Bernini had never lived; and it is true that in his struggle
for effect he was an injury rather than a benefit to the art of his own day and the succeeding
years.

The worst defect in the sculpture of Bernini is his treatment of the human body. At times he
exaggerates the muscular power beyond all resemblance to nature, and again he seems to leave
out all anatomy and soften the body to a point that far exceeds possibility. This softness
is seen in his Apollo and Daphne, which shows the moment when she is suddenly changed into
a laurel-tree in order to escape the pursuit of the young god. This group is in the Villa Borghese,
at Rome; it was executed when Bernini was but eighteen years old, and near the close of his
life he declared that he had made little progress after its production.

But he reached the height of this objectionable manner in his representation of the Rape of
Proserpine, which is in the Villa Ludovisi. The Pluto is a rough, repulsive man, with whom
no association of a god can be made, and the Proserpine is made a soulless, sensual figure,
so far from attractive in a pure sense that we are almost willing that Pluto should carry her
to some region from which she is not likely to come back. At the same time we are sorry not
to provide her with an ointment for the blue marks which the big hands of Pluto are making
on her soft flesh. The plain truth is, that this work makes a low and common thing of a subject
which could be so treated as to be a "thing of beauty" in a charming sense. (Fig. 111.)

Bernini executed a statue of St. Bibiana for the church of that saint at Rome, and one of St.
Longinus in one of the niches to the dome of St. Peter's; he also made the designs for the
one hundred and sixty-two statues in the colonnades of St. Peter's, and for the decorations
of the bridge of St. Angelo; in such works, almost without exception, he chose some moment
in the lives of the persons represented that called for a striking attitude and gave an opportunity
for an effect that is often theatrical. As a mere decoration such statues have a certain value
of an inferior sort; but as works of art, as intellectual efforts, they are worthless. However,
this decorative effect, as it is seen on the façade of the Lateran, where the figures stand
out against the sky, or on the bridge of St. Angelo, is not by any means to be despised; only
we cannot call a sculptor a great artist when he can do nothing finer than this.

Some of Bernini's works in which he shows intense suffering have more genuine feeling, and
are finer in artistic qualities. One of these is Pietà, in the chapel of St. Andreas Corsini
in the Lateran. But he frequently goes beyond the bounds of good taste, as, for example, on
the monument to Pope Urban VIII., in St. Peter's, where he represents Death with his bony hand
writing the inscription on the panel; this is truly terrible, and not less so is another Death
upon the monument of Alexander VII., raising the marble curtain before the entrance to the
vault, as if he were inviting one to walk in. Many objections can be made to his draperies.
He exaggerated the small curtains seen on some ancient tombs until they were huge objects of
ugliness; the drapery upon his figures is so prominently treated that instead of being a minor
object it sometimes seems like the principal one; it no longer serves to conceal forms, and
at the same time show their grace and motion, but it is inflated, fluttering, grotesque in
form and quite absurd when compared with statues in which it answers its true purpose.

Charles I. of England heard so much of Bernini that he desired to have a statue of himself
executed by this sculptor; three of Vandyck's portraits of the king were sent to him, and the
likeness of the statue was so satisfactory to the monarch that he sent the artist six thousand
crowns and a ring worth as much more.

Bernini executed a colossal equestrian statue of Constantine for the portico of St. Peter's;
he made another of Louis XIV., which was changed into a Marcus Curtius, and sent to Versailles.
He also executed the fountain in the Piazza Navona, at Rome, which is one of his exaggerated works.

FRANÇOIS DUQUESNOY (1594-1646) was born at Brussels, and was known in Rome as Il Fiammingo.
The Archduke Albert sent him to Rome to study, and he was a contemporary of Bernini. When his
patron died Duquesnoy was left without means, and was forced to carve small figures in ivory
for his support. His figures of children, which were full of life and child-like expression,
became quite famous. An important work of his in this way is the fountain of the Manneken-Pis,
at Brussels.

His masterpiece is a colossal statue of St. Andrew in the Church of St. Peter's; it occupied
him five years, and is one of the best works of modern art. His statue of St. Susanna in the
Church of Santa Maria di Loreto, in Rome, is simple and noble, and is much admired. Little
is known of this artist's life, and it is said that he was poisoned by his brother when on
his way to France.

There was a goodly company of sculptors following Bernini, but none whose works or life was
of sufficient importance or interest to demand our attention here, and we will pass to the
sculpture of France, where the arts were less devoted to the service of the Church and more
to the uses of kings, princes, and noblemen. The court of France was devoted to pomp and pleasure,
and sculpture was used for the glorification of the leaders in all its follies. In one sense
this is more agreeable than the art in Italy which we have been considering, for nothing can
be more disagreeable than a false religious sentiment in art; it is only when the artist is
filled with true devotion and feels deeply in his own soul all that he tries to express in
his work that religious representations can appeal to us agreeably or benefit us by their influence.

SIMON GUILLAIN (1581-1658) is especially interesting as the sculptor of the statue of Louis
XIV. as a boy, which is in the Louvre; those of his parents are also there; formerly they decorated
the Pont au Change. Other works by this master are in the same museum.

JACQUES SARRAZIN (1588-1660) is only known by his works, which are now in the Louvre, of which
a bronze bust of the Chancellor Pierre Séguier is worthy of notice.

FRANÇOIS ANGUIER (1604-1669) was born at Eu, in Normandy, and was the son of a carpenter, who
taught his son to carve in wood at an early age. When still quite young François went to Paris
to study, and later to Rome. He became one of the first artists of his time in France, and
was a favorite of the king, Louis XIII., who made him keeper of the gallery of antiquities,
and gave him apartments in the Louvre. Most of his important works were monuments to illustrious
men. His copies of antique sculptures were very fine.

MICHEL ANGUIER (1612-1686) was a brother of the preceding, with whom he studied until they
both went to Rome. Michel remained there ten years, and was employed with other artists in
St. Peter's and in some palaces. In 1651 he returned to Paris, and assisted François in the
great work of the tomb of the Duke de Montmorenci at Moulins.

Michel executed a statue of Louis XIII., which was cast in bronze. He adorned the apartments
of Queen Anne of Austria in the Louvre, and for her executed the principal sculptures in the
Church of Val de Grace; a Nativity in this church is his best work. His sculptures are seen
in various churches, and he also executed statues of ancient gods and vases for garden ornaments.
He was a professor in the Academy of Arts in Paris, and wrote lectures on sculpture.

FRANÇOIS GIRARDON (1630-1715), born at Troyes, was a protégé of the Chancellor Séguier. Louis
XIV. gave him a pension, by which he was enabled to study in Rome, and after his return to
France the king gave him many commissions. The monument to Cardinal Richelieu in the Church
of the Sorbonne is from the hand of this sculptor. Perhaps his best-known work is the Rape
of Proserpine at Versailles. He made an equestrian statue of Louis XIV., which was destroyed
in the Revolution; a model of it in bronze is in the Louvre. His bust of Boileau is a strong,
fine work. Many of his sculptures were destroyed by the revolutionists.

A devoted follower of Bernini was PIERRE PUGET (1622-1694). His works are seen at the Louvre
and at Versailles. His group of Milo of Crotona endeavoring to free himself from the claws
of the lion is full of life and is natural, but the subject is too repulsive to be long examined;
his Perseus liberating Andromeda is more agreeable, and is noble in its forms and animated
in expression. His Alexander and Diogenes is in relief, and is effective and picturesque.

ANTOINE COYSEVOX (1640-1720) was born at Lyons, and manifested his artistic talent very early
in life. Before he was seventeen years old he had distinguished himself by a statue of the
Virgin, and progressed rapidly in his studies, which he made in Paris. In 1667 he was engaged
by Cardinal Furstenburg to go to Alsace to decorate his palace; this occupied him four years.
When he again went to Paris he became a very eminent artist. He executed a statue of Louis
XIV., and received a commission from the province of Bretagne for an equestrian statue of the
same monarch.

Among his best works are the tomb of Cardinal Mazarin; the tomb of the great Colbert in the
Church of St. Eustache; the monument of Charles le Brun in the Church of St. Nicolas; the statue
of the great Condé; the marble statue of Louis XIV., in the Church of Notre Dame, and others.
In the tomb of Mazarin he showed fine powers of construction and excellence of design. The
kneeling figure of the minister is a dignified statue and well executed; the statues in bronze
of Prudence, Peace, and Fidelity, and the marble figures of Charity and Religion are each and
all noble works, and free to a remarkable degree from the mannerisms and faults of his time.

NICOLAS COUSTOU (1658-1733) was a nephew and pupil of Coysevox. He took the grand prize at
Paris, and went to Rome to study when he was twenty-three years old. He made many copies of
the antique. After his return to France he was much employed. His chief work was a colossal
representation of the Junction of the Seine and the Marne. He also made for the city of Lyons
a bronze statue representing the river Saone. Some of his sculptures are in the Church of Notre
Dame.

GUILLAUME COUSTOU (1678-1746), brother of Nicolas, also gained the grand prize and went to
Rome, and on his return made a fine reputation. Much of his best work was for the gardens of
Marly; he executed a bronze statue of the Rhone at Lyons; a bas-relief of Christ with the Doctors,
at Versailles, and statues of Louis XIV. and Cardinal Dubois, in the Museum of French Monuments.

JEAN BAPTISTE PIGALLE (1714-1785) is the last French sculptor of whom I shall speak here. He
was born in Paris, and gained his first fame by a statue of Mercury; but his masterpiece was
the tomb of Marshal Moritz of Saxony, in the Church of St. Thomas, at Strasburg. The soldier
is represented in his own costume, just as he wore it in life, about to enter a tomb, on one
side of which stands a skeleton Death, and on the other a mourning Hercules. A statue representing
France tries to hold him back, and a Genius attends on him with an inverted torch. There are
many accessories of military emblems and trophies. There have been several engravings made
from this tomb, the best part of which is the figure of the Marshal.

Pigalle was a favorite with Mme. Pompadour, of whom he made a portrait statue. She employed
him to do many works for her. His best monument in Paris is that of the Comte d'Harcourt, in
the Church of Notre Dame.

In the Netherlands, as in Italy, the painting of the time had a great effect upon sculpture,
and it was full of energy, like the pictures of the Rubens school; at the same time there remained
traces of the traditions of former days, and while a great change had come since the days of
Vischer, there was still a firm adherence to nature, and no such affectations and mannerisms
existed here as were seen in the works of Bernini and his followers in Italy and France.

One of the ablest sculptors of his day was ARTHUR QUELLINUS, who was born at Antwerp in 1607.
He studied under Duquesnoy, and was especially happy in his manner of imagining his subjects,
and of avoiding the imitation of others or a commonplace treatment of his own. The magnificent
Town Hall of Antwerp was commenced in 1648, and Quellinus received the commission to decorate
it with plastic works. His sculptures are numerous, both on the interior and exterior of the
edifice. In the two pediments he introduced allegorical representations of the power of the
city of Antwerp, especially in her commerce. These compositions are picturesque in their arrangement,
but the treatment is such as belongs to sculpture; in one of these a figure which represents
the city is enthroned like a queen, and is surrounded by fantastic sea-gods, who offer their
homage to her. (Fig. 112.)

We cannot give a list of many detached works by Quellinus, but one of the best of the old monuments
in Berlin is attributed to him. It is the tomb of Count Sparr in the Marienkirche.

At the present day Berlin is a city of much artistic importance, and the beginning of its present
architectural and sculptural prominence may be dated at about the end of the seventeenth century,
not quite two hundred years ago. One of the most influential artists of that time was ANDREAS
SCHLÜTER (1662-1714), who was born in Hamburg. His father was a sculptor of no prominence,
but he took his son with him to Dantzig, where many Netherlandish artists were employed upon
the buildings being constructed there. Andreas Schlüter was naturally gifted, and he devoted
himself to the study of both architecture and sculpture, at home and later in Italy. Before
he was thirty years old he was employed in important affairs in Warsaw, and in 1694 he was
summoned to Berlin, where he executed the plastic ornaments of the Arsenal; the heads of the
Dying Warriors above the windows in the court-yard are remarkable works. They are very fine
when regarded only as excellent examples of good sculpture, and they are very effective placed
as they are, for they seem to tell the whole tragic story of what a soldier's life and fate
must often be (Fig. 113).

However, the masterpiece of this sculptor is the equestrian statue of the Great Elector for
the long bridge at Berlin, which was completed in 1703 (Fig. 114). Lübke says of this: "Although
biassed as regards form by the age which prescribed the Roman costume to ideal portraits of
this kind, the horseman on his mighty charger is conceived with so much energy, he is filled
with such power of will, he is so noble in bearing and so steady in his course, that no other
equestrian statue can be compared with this in fiery majesty. Equally masterly is the arrangement
of the whole, especially the four chained slaves on the base, in whom we gladly pardon a certain
crowding of movements and forms."

Schlüter also made a statue of the Elector Frederic III., which is now in Königsberg. Besides
his works in sculpture he was the architect of the royal palaces at Potsdam, Charlottenburg,
and Berlin, and there are many sculptures by him at these places. When he was thus in an important
position and at the height of professional prosperity he met with a sad misfortune, from the
effects of which he never recovered. A chime of bells had been purchased in Holland, and Schlüter
was commissioned to arrange an old tower for their reception. He carried it higher than it
had been, and was proceeding to finish it, when it threatened to fall, and had to be pulled
down. On account of this Schlüter was dismissed from his position as court architect; and though
his office of sculptor was left to him his power was gone, and he was broken down in spirit.
He was called to St. Petersburg by Peter the Great, and died soon after. Now, the verdict of
judges is that he was one of the greatest artists of his age, and that his works, both in sculpture
and architecture, belong to the noblest productions of his century.

CHAPTER IX.

CANOVA, THORWALDSEN, AND OTHER RECENT SCULPTORS.

In the middle of the eighteenth century the arts had fallen into such a feeble state that a
true artistic work--one conceived and executed in an artist spirit--was not to be looked for.
As in the Middle Ages, too, thought seemed to be sleeping. Both art and letters were largely
prostrated to the service of those in high places; they were scarcely used except for the pleasure
or praise of men whose earthly power made them to be feared, and because they were feared they
were flattered openly and despised secretly.

But about the end of the century another spirit arose; a second Renaissance took place, which
may be traced in literature and in art, as it may be in the movement of political events and
an independence of thought everywhere.

Naturally the question as to where artists could turn for their models was an important one,
and as before in various epochs in art the antique had been the "only help in time of trouble,"
so it proved again. In 1764 Winckelmann published his "History of Ancient Art," in which the
rich significance of classic art was clearly placed before the student. The service which this
author rendered to art can scarcely be over-estimated, coming, as it did, at a time when the
genius of art seemed to have turned his back upon the world, and all true inspiration was lost.
At about the same time the monuments of Athens were recalled to the European world by Stuart
and Revett in their architectural designs, and by the end of the century the study of the antique
had done its transforming work, and artists were striving for more worthy ends than the favor
of kings and powerful patrons. This new study of classic art did not show its full and best
results until the Danish sculptor Thorwaldsen executed his works; but before his time others
were striving for that which it was his privilege to perfect.

Among the earliest and most famous of these eighteenth-century reformers was the Venetian,
ANTONIO CANOVA (1757-1822). He was born in Possagno, and was the son and grandson of stone-cutters.
His father died when he was very young, and he was thus left to the care and instruction of
his grandfather, the old Pasino Canova, who lost no time in accustoming the boy to the use
of the chisel, for there are cuttings in existence which were executed by Canova in his ninth
year. Signor Giovanni Faliero dwelt near Possagno, and was in the habit of employing Pasino
Canova frequently; he entertained such respect for the old stone-cutter that he sometimes asked
him to spend a few days at his villa. On these visits the old man was accompanied by Antonio,
who soon became a favorite with all the family of Faliero, and a friend of the young Giuseppe.

On one occasion when Pasino and the boy attended a festival at Villa Faliero, the ornament
for the dessert was forgotten. When the servants remembered it at the last moment they went
to the old Pasino in distress, and begged him to save them from the displeasure of the master.
The old man could do nothing for them, but the young Tonin, as he was called, asked for some
butter, and from it quickly carved a lion. At table this strange ornament attracted the attention
of all the guests, and Tonin was called in to receive their praises; from this time the Senator
Faliero became his patron, and he placed the boy under the instruction of Giuseppe Bernardi,
called Toretto, a Venetian sculptor who had settled at Pagnano.

At this time Canova was twelve years old; he studied two years under Toretto, and made many
statues and models, which are still preserved by the Faliero family, or in other collections.
His first really original work was the modelling of two angels in clay; he did these during
an absence of his master's; he placed them in a prominent place, and then awaited Toretto's
opinion with great anxiety. When the master saw them he was filled with surprise, and exclaimed
that they were truly marvellous; from these models the grandfather cut two angels in pietra
dura for the high-altar at Monfumo. At this same period Canova made his first representations
of the human form; he was accustomed to make small statues and give them to his friends.

When he was fifteen years old Faliero sent for him, and received him into his own family. Canova
wished to earn something for himself, and engaged to work half of the day for Giuseppe Ferrari,
who was a nephew of his former master, Toretto. This circumstance proves how remarkable he
must have been; it is unusual for a boy of fifteen to be paid for work instead of paying for
instruction. In Venice he was able to learn much from observation. He divided his time systematically,
spending his mornings in the Academy or some gallery, his afternoons in the shop where he was
employed, and his evenings in studies for which he had had no opportunity as a child.

The first commission which was given to Canova was from the Commendatore Farsetti for a pair
of baskets filled with fruit and flowers, to be sculptured in marble, and placed on a staircase
which led to the picture gallery in the Farsetti Palace, where Canova spent much time in study.
These works have no special excellence.

After a year in Venice he went to Asolo with the Faliero family. Some time before this his
patron had asked Canova to make for him a group of Orpheus and Eurydice, taking the moment
when Eurydice beholds her lover torn away from her forever. Canova had been busy with this
in his leisure hours in Venice, and he took with him to Asolo everything necessary to the work.
He completed the Eurydice in his sixteenth year; it was life-size, and cut from pietra di Costosa.

With this first attempt Canova became convinced that the small models such as were in use by
sculptors were quite insufficient to good work, and he determined that his models should be
of the size which the finished work would have, even when colossal.

After this time he had his studio in a cell of the monastery of the Augustine friars attached
to the Church of San Stefano, in Venice. During the next three years he was occupied with his
Orpheus and a bust of the Doge Renier. At this time he studied entirely from nature; he devoted
himself to the pursuit of anatomy, and after a time was accustomed to make dissections in order
to sketch or model from important parts or some conformations that he desired in particular
instances.

In 1776 his Orpheus was finished and exhibited, and it chanced to be at the annual festival
of the Ascension, when the opera of Orpheus was brought out in Venice. Canova was accustomed
to say that the praise he then received was "that which made him a sculptor;" and so grateful
was he for it that later, when he became Marquis of Ischia, he chose for his armorial ensigns
the lyre and serpent which are the mythological symbols of Orpheus and Eurydice. The Senator
Grimani ordered a copy of the Orpheus, and this was the first work of Canova in Carrara marble.

He soon found his workshop too small, and removed to one in the street of San Maurizio, where
he remained until he left his native country. His next work was a statue of Æsculapius, larger
than life; a short time before his death, when he saw this statue, he sorrowfully declared
that "his progress had by no means corresponded with the indications of excellence in this
performance of his youth." About this time he executed an Apollo and Daphne which was never
entirely finished, and when twenty-two years old he completed a group of Dædalus and Icarus
for the Senator Pisani. This was intended for an exterior decoration of his palace; but when
it was done Pisani considered it worthy of a place in his gallery, already famous on account
of the painting of Darius and his Family, by Paul Veronese, and other fine works. This may
be called Canova's last work in Venice, as he went to Rome soon after his twenty-third birthday.

The Cavaliere Zuliani was then the representative of Venice in Rome, and Faliero gave Canova
letters to him. Zuliani was an enlightened patron of art, and he received the young sculptor
with great kindness, and soon arranged to have his model of Dædalus and Icarus exhibited to
the best artists and judges of art in Rome. We can fancy the anxiety with which Canova went
to this exhibition; but the praise which he there received secured for him a place among the
artists then in Rome.

Canova had a great desire to undertake a group of some important subject, and Zuliani was his
friend in this; for he gave him the marble, and promised if no other purchaser appeared to
give him the full value of the work when completed. He also gave him a workshop in the Venetian
Palace, to which no one had access, where he could be entirely free and undisturbed. The subject
chosen for the group was Theseus vanquishing the Minotaur, and the size was to be colossal.
Canova now worked with untiring devotion; he was often seen before the statues on Monte Cavallo,
with sketch-book in hand, as soon as it was light enough for him to see, and he studied faithfully
in the museums and galleries of Rome. His friends in Venice had secured for him a pension of
three hundred ducats, which placed him above want, and he was free to devote himself to his
Theseus, although while at work on that he made a statue of Apollo, which was exhibited with
Angelini's Minerva, and received much praise.

Meantime no one knew of the Theseus save the ambassador. When it was finished Zuliani prepared
it for exhibition, and invited all the most distinguished men in Rome to an entertainment.
A model of the head of Theseus was put in a prominent place, and the guests were busy in discussing
it; they asked questions and expressed opinions, and when their interest was well awakened
Zuliani said: "Come, let us end this discussion by seeing the original," and the statue was
unveiled before their eyes. Canova often declared that death itself could not have been more
terrible to him than were those moments. But he and all else were forgotten in the surprise
and admiration which the group excited; in that hour the artists who afterward hated him gave
him their sincere praise. From that day the fame of Canova was established.

Very soon he was selected to erect a monument to Clement XIV. This pope was a famous man; he
was the collector of the Clementine Museum, the author of the elegant letters known by his
family name of Ganganelli, and, above all, he was the suppressor of the Jesuits. While Canova
felt the honor that was thus offered him he also thought himself bound to consult those who
had conferred his pension upon him, and thus helped him to become the artist that he was. He
went, therefore, to Venice and sought direction from the Senate; he was told to employ his
time as should be most profitable to himself. He therefore gave up his studio in Venice, and
as his patron, Zuliani, had now left Rome, he fitted up the studio in the Strada Babbuino,
which became so well known to lovers of art of all nations who visited Rome. In 1787 the above
monument was exhibited, and was much admired. An engraving was made from it and dedicated to
Zuliani; but Canova desired to do something more worthy for his patron, and made a statue of
Psyche as a gift to him; Zuliani hesitated to accept it, but finally consented to do so if
Canova would in turn accept a number of silver medals with the Psyche on one side and a head
of Canova on the other, which he could give to his friends. In the midst of all this Zuliani
died, and his heirs were so angry because he had left works of art to the Public Library that
they refused to carry out his plans. In the end the Psyche was bought by Napoleon and presented
to the Queen of Bavaria.

Canova executed a second papal monument to Pope Clement XIII. It was erected in St. Peter's
by his nephews. The mourning genius upon it is frequently mentioned as one of Canova's happiest
figures. The execution of these two monuments occupied almost ten years of the best part of
this sculptor's life.

Canova's fame had extended over all Europe, and he was asked to go to St. Petersburg, and offered
most advantageous terms if he would do so; but he declined, and executed the monument of Admiral
Emo, on a commission from the Venetian Senate. For this work he received a gold medal and an
annuity for life.

In 1798, during the revolutionary excitement at Rome, Canova went to Possagno, his native town.
Here, in his retirement, he painted more than twenty pictures, which were by no means to be
despised. His masterpiece represented the Saviour just taken from the cross, and surrounded
by the Marys, St. John, Nicodemus, and Joseph of Arimathea. This was the first of the many
gifts which he made to this little church, by which it became a splendid temple and the expression
of Canova's love for his birthplace and early home.

After he returned to Rome his health was not sufficient to allow of his usual close application
to work, and he went to Berlin and Vienna in company with Prince Rezzonico, and this so benefited
him that he was able to resume his labors with new energy. He soon achieved a proud triumph,
for his Perseus was placed in one of the Stanze of the Vatican by a public decree; this was
the first modern work which had been thus honored.

In 1802-1803 Napoleon requested Canova to go to Paris to model a portrait bust for a colossal
statue; the work was finished six years later. In 1805 the artist went again to Vienna, where
he modelled a bust of the Emperor of Austria; in 1810 again to Paris to prepare a model for
the statue of Maria Louisa. With the exception of these short journeys he was constantly at
work in his Roman studio until 1815, when he was sent in an official capacity to France by
the pope, for the purpose of reclaiming the works of art which had been carried from Italy
in times of war, and which really belonged to the patrimony of the Church. Canova executed
his commission with rare judgment, and then continued his journey to England. In London he
received many honors; the king gave him an order for a group, held several conversations with
him, made him valuable gifts, and intrusted him with a private letter to the pope.

Canova returned to Rome on January 5th, 1816. His entry might almost be called a triumphal
one, for the people of Rome were so grateful for the restoration of their treasures that they
expressed their joy in demonstrations to Canova. He had been President of St. Luke's Academy
before; he was now made President of the Commission to purchase works of art, and of the Academy
of Archæology. In full consistory of all the high officers of the Church, the pope caused his
name to be inscribed upon the "golden volume of the Capitol," and conferred upon him the title
of Marquis of Ischia, with a pension of three thousand crowns a year.

Canova now determined to execute a colossal statue of Religion, which should commemorate the
return of the pope from banishment. He endeavored to persuade the authorities to decide where
it should be placed; this was not done, and he was much grieved at his failure to carry out
the idea. But he determined that from this time he would devote his life and fortune to religion,
and resolved to erect a church at Possagno, to adorn it with works of art, and to make it his
own burial-place.

On July 8th, 1819, Canova assembled his workmen in his native town, and gave them a fête; many
peasant girls joined in the festivities and assisted in the breaking of the ground; at evening,
as they all passed before Canova to bid him farewell, each one received a gift from him. Three
days later the religious ceremony of laying the corner-stone of the future church took place.
An immense number of people from the surrounding country and from Venice were present; Canova,
in his robes as a Knight of Christ, and wearing the insignia of other orders, led the procession;
all who had seen Canova when a poor boy in their midst were much impressed by this occasion.
Here, in a public manner, he consecrated his life and fortune to the service of God and the
benefit of his birthplace. Every autumn Canova went to Possagno to encourage the workmen and
to give directions as to how the whole should be done. Between these visits he worked devotedly,
for he was forced to earn all he could in order to pay for his great undertaking.

At this time he executed a statue of Washington, and was making an equestrian statue of Ferdinand
of Naples, and in the month of May, 1822, went to that city, where he fell ill; he returned
to Rome, and revived somewhat, and resumed his work. On September 17th he went to Possagno,
in October to Villa Faliero, where, fifty years before, he had spent such happy days. From
here he went to Venice, and on the 13th of the same month he died.

Solemn services were held in the cathedral, and his remains were then intrusted to the priests
of Possagno, who bore them to their temple, where he was buried on the 25th of the month; the
crowd was so great that the oration was delivered in the open air. Canova's heart was given
to the Academy of Venice, and an elegant little monument was erected in the Palace of Arts
to contain this relic of the sculptor. The Venetian artists arranged to erect to him a monument,
and chose the design which he himself had made for the tomb of Titian; it is in the Church
of Santa Maria de' Frari. In Rome a statue was decreed to him, and he was declared the perpetual
President of her chief academy.

In personal appearance Canova was not grand or very attractive. His head was remarkably well
placed upon his shoulders, and the loose manner in which he dressed his neck allowed this to
be seen; his forehead was a noble one, his hair black, and his whole manner and dress was modest
and simple. His habits were very orderly and quiet; he rose early to work, and went little
into public society; but he welcomed a few friends to dinner almost daily. He entertained them
cordially, but without display, and led the conversation to light, cheerful topics that did
not touch upon art, or demand mental exertion. At eleven o'clock he retired to his own room
and amused himself with a book or pencil before sleeping. Some of his best drawings were made
at this hour, and have been published with the title of "Pensieri," or thoughts. To describe
one day was to give a picture of all, so regular were his habits of life.

In his professional life he was just and generous to others, and though he would have no pupils,
he would leave everything to advise an artist or visit his works. He was also a patron of art,
and had executed, at his own expense, the numerous busts of distinguished persons in the Capitoline
Museum.

There is a story of a romance in his life. It is said that when he first arrived in Venice
he fell in love with a beautiful girl who was older than himself, who went to draw in the Farsetti
Gallery. Day by day he watched her until she came no more; at length her attendant returned,
and Canova inquired for her mistress; she burst into tears and answered, "La Signora Julia
is dead." He asked no more, and never knew who Julia was or any circumstances of her history;
but all his life he treasured her image, and when he endeavored to unite the purity of an angel
with the earthly beauty of a woman, the remembrance of Julia was always in his mind.

Canova was one of the few artists who received their full merit of praise and the benefits
of their labors while alive. Without doubt he was a great sculptor, and coming as he did, at
a time when art was at its worst, he seemed all the more remarkable to the men around him.
But the verdict of to-day would not exalt him as highly as did his friends and patrons. His
statues lack the repose which makes the grandest feature of the best sculpture; his female
figures have a sentimental sort of air that is not all we could wish, and does not elevate
them above what we may call pleasing art. His male figures are better, more natural and simple,
though some of his subjects bordered on the coarse and brutal, as in the two fencers, Kreugas
and Damoxenes, or Hercules and Lichas. But in his religious subjects he is much finer, and
in some of his monuments he shows dignity and earnestness, while his composition is in the
true artistic spirit. Taken on the whole, he was a wonderful artist and a man of whom his century
might well be proud.

