Transcriber's Note:
| | This text uses UTF-8 (unicode) file encoding. If the apostrophes   | | and quotation marks
in this paragraph appear as garbage, you may   | | have an incompatible browser or unavailable
fonts. First, make sure| | that your browser’s “character set” or “file encoding” is set to
| | Unicode (UTF-8). You may also need to change the default font.     | +--------------------------------------------------------------------+

TYPOGRAPHIC TECHNICAL SERIES FOR APPRENTICES—PART I, No. 3.

TYPE CASES AND COMPOSING-ROOM FURNITURE

A PRIMER OF INFORMATION ABOUT TYPE CASES, WORK STANDS, CABINETS, CASE RACKS, GALLEY RACKS,
STANDING GALLEYS, &c.

COMPILED BY

A. A. STEWART

PUBLISHED BY THE COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION UNITED TYPOTHETAE OF AMERICA

1918

COPYRIGHT, 1918 UNITED TYPOTHETAE OF AMERICA CHICAGO, ILL.

Composition and Electrotypes contributed by The Blanchard Press New York

CONTENTS

                                                        PAGE

INTRODUCTORY                                               5

EARLY TYPE CASES                                           9

SIZES OF TYPE CASES                                       11

STRUCTURE OF TYPE CASES                                   12

CASES FOR VARIOUS PURPOSES                                14

COMPOSITOR'S WORK STANDS                                  16

CASE STANDS AND RACKS                                     18

THE MODERN TYPE CABINET                                   20

IRON CASE BRACKETS                                        22

WOOD RUNS AND STEEL RUNS                                  24

EXTENSION FRONTS AND BACKS                                25

FURNITURE RACKS                                           26

SPECIAL CABINETS                                          28

REVIEW QUESTIONS                                          30

GLOSSARY                                                  32

INTRODUCTORY

The essential articles of furniture in a modern composing room may be classified broadly, omitting
obvious details for the present, under the following heads:

     1. CASES for type for general composition; for borders, type
     ornaments, accented letters, fractions, extra sorts, etc., and for
     engraved plates, and electrotypes; for spaces and quads, brass
     rules, leads, slugs, metal furniture and large spacing material,
     and for wood type. Also cases in special cabinets for printed
     specimens, paper samples, etc.

     2. WORK STANDS AND CABINETS—Open wooden frames with or without
     racks, to hold cases on top; made single or double; with working
     top. Cabinets, with working top, holding cases, enclosed on sides
     and back; made single, double, or triple size. Cabinets are made of
     pressed steel as well as of hard wood.

     3. CABINETS AND STORAGE RACKS FOR CASES—In addition to the racks
     in working stands and cabinets, there are standing racks, cabinets
     (flat top for holding miscellaneous articles or material, and
     galley top for temporary storage of live or dead matter), etc.

     4. GALLEY CABINETS AND RACKS—These are to hold galley matter
     waiting return of proofs, or for pages made up and waiting to be
     locked up for electro foundry or for the pressroom. They may be
     placed in any convenient place, or are sometimes in movable form to
     be taken from composing or correcting stands to the make-up stand
     or imposing table.

     5. FURNITURE RACKS AND CABINETS—For labor-saving fonts of reglet,
     wood furniture, soft metal or steel furniture, etc.

     6. STANDING GALLEYS—These are stands with inclined tops divided
     sometimes horizontally and sometimes perpendicularly into narrow
     columns, for holding live or dead standing matter—usually the
     latter awaiting distribution. The lower part of the frame is
     usually provided with racks for cases, letter-boards, galleys, or
     other storage facilities.

     7. IMPOSING TABLES—Large flat surfaces upon which pages and forms
     are imposed and locked up for electrotype molding or prepared for
     the press. These consist of polished marble slabs on strong frames
     or tables, with drawer for quoins, etc., and also furnished below
     with galley racks, receptacles for wood or metal furniture,
     letter-boards, chase racks, etc. The more common modern imposing
     tables are made of steel, on iron frames, with the lower parts
     fitted for the storage of material used in locking up forms.

     8. PROOFING APPARATUS—Proof planer and mallet, galley press, hand
     press, modern curved-surface machines, automatic proofing machines,
     self-feeding and self-inking. These also include proof rollers, ink
     tables, shelves for proof paper, and receptacles for benzine or
     other type-washing liquids.

In addition to the foregoing brief summary there are numerous other items of composing-room
equipment, large and small, provided for the particular needs of the work carried on in the
place. Many of these items, however, are not in extensive use, as in many places the needs
they would serve might not warrant the expense of their installation. The specialties of the
printing industry nowadays affect the composing-room as well as the other departments.

A particular article which is useful and profitable in one place may be quite superfluous and
an unnecessary expense in another. The kind and quantity of the work done in any workroom usually
governs the kind and the extent of the equipment provided—making allowance always for the customary
variation in individual judgment and the proprietor's ability to purchase.

There is a wide range of choice from a plain wooden double stand with two pairs of cases, at
which two persons may work, costing six to ten dollars, to a latest pattern steel working cabinet,
also providing for only two workers, costing one hundred dollars, or even more.

There are, however, certain articles and facilities fundamentally necessary to carry on the
work of a composing room. The particular form of these—whether simple and inexpensive or elaborate
and costly—is a question for the proprietor or manager to consider.

The articles of furniture classified under items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, in the foregoing list,
are those treated in this book; those referred to in item 7, Imposing Tables and Lock-Up Appliances,
being considered in a separate volume (No. 4). Proof Presses, item 8, are also treated in a
separate book (No. 5).

COMPOSING-ROOM FURNITURE

Early Type Cases

Probably the first article which Gutenberg and his co-workers provided, after their types were
cast, was a tray with small compartments for holding the various letters of the font, so that
each letter, as it was required for composing, could be readily selected. There may not have
been a composing stick used at first, it is reasonable to suppose, as it was quite feasible
for the types to be assembled in lines directly into the frames in which they were held during
the printing. A case in which to hold the type, however, was a first and obvious necessity.

The early type cases are shown in pictures of the time as made of a single tray containing
all the characters of the font and resting in a slanting position on a rude frame or “horse,”
at which the compositor is usually seated. All the boxes of the case are represented as of
the same size, which probably was not the fact even in early practice any more than it is today.
Early designers and artists no doubt overlooked or ignored what they considered an unimportant
detail, just as today they often persist in misrepresenting the true outline of the printer's
lower-case. One does not need to take much thought or to have much experience to understand
that in all printed languages some characters are used more than others and therefore more
types of these letters and larger boxes to hold them should be provided.

For a long time the large single case with boxes for the entire list of characters was used,
and these are still common in many European composing rooms. In English and American workshops,
however, the pair of cases, one above the other, for many years has been the rule for large
fonts in book and news work. These cases, being smaller and holding but a part of the font,
are more convenient for storing and for moving from place to place about the room as they are
needed for use.

The cases described by Moxon in 1683 are in pairs, and the arrangement of the letters in the
lower case, as shown in his illustrations, bear a close similarity to the plan of English cases
of today.

Early American cases came from England and naturally they conformed to the customs of the time
and place of origin. Probably in no other important particular has the tendency of printers
to hold to past methods been more strongly emphasized than in their refusal to adopt any important
change in the style of the most used type cases and the arrangement of the types in the boxes.
Force of habit and dislike for innovation have kept practically unchanged for two and a half
centuries the relative positions of the chief characters in the case. At the same time there
has been universal acknowledgment that the adoption of some of the suggested improvements would
add greatly to convenience and economy; and further, that many of these improvements could
be adopted with an effort and expense so small as to be out of all proportion to the advantages
obtained.

Sizes of Type Cases

The standard type case of today is 32¼ inches wide, as it lies on the work-stand, and 16⅝ inches—or
slightly more than one half of the width—from the front to the back or upper edge. The usual
depth of the outside frame is 1⅜ inches, the minor inside partitions being slightly lower than
the outside frame and middle crossbar, thus making the normal depth of the boxes approximately
1 inch. These dimensions vary only by fractions of an inch from those given by Moxon, and they
seem to have been quite uniformly adhered to as an acceptable size for printers' cases.

Other sizes of cases, however, have been made and quite commonly used during the last half
century. Those now listed in the dealers' catalogs are known as three-quarter size (26½ inches
wide by 16⅝ inches front to back) and two-third size (21¾ by 16⅝ inches). There is also another
size known as the Rooker case, used to some extent in newspaper composing rooms, the dimensions
being 28½ x 14 inches, which is about one-fifth smaller than the standard case. It holds nearly
the same quantity of the smaller sizes of type and has the advantage of occupying less room.

]

When printing offices employed but few workmen and there was small equipment, the need for
economizing space did not seem a pressing one. Large cases with small fonts, and open-frame
working stands with few or no racks or shelves for storage of extra material, were not considered
extravagant so long as the original cost was small. The employment of larger numbers of workmen,
however, and the consequent additional equipment of cases, with racks, cabinets, imposing tables,
and other facilities concentrated in city buildings where the cost of rent, light, heat, etc.,
is high and constantly increasing, have made the utilization of waste space a matter of urgent
necessity. The three-quarter, two-third cases, and even smaller sizes, which can be kept in
smaller racks and cabinets, have therefore been found convenient in many places, but these
must be provided with suitable racks or cabinets of the proper size. The smaller cases are
sufficient to hold many of the usual small fonts, as well as the ordinary auxiliary material,
like type borders, ornaments, small electros, etc. Small cases, with their lesser weight of
contents in type metal, often give distinct advantage in the ease with which they may be handled.

[A] In many composing-rooms the fractions and commercial signs are not now kept in the regular
cases, but in special cases apart from the font.

Structure of Type Cases

Type cases are made of wood thoroughly seasoned to prevent as much as possible any shrinking
after they are finished and have remained for some time in the usually dry air of a composing
room. It is not so common a custom now, as it was formerly, to sponge type on the galley before
distributing and to allow the surplus water to flow into the case, thus subjecting parts of
the case to excessive dampness. The old type cases, under such careless usage, were quickly
warped and cracked. The splitting of the bottom and the separation of the partitions allowed
small types to drop out and to shift under the partitions. These defects were partially overcome
by papering the bottoms of the boxes, the proper accomplishment of which was at one time considered
a part of the compositor's duty.

The modern American type case is better made than its predecessors, being so far superior in
several essential particulars as to be a distinct achievement in factory woodwork. A type case,
with 49 to 100 or more small boxes, is not a simple thing to make by hand labor. While the
making of the outside frame and the bottom involve no special difficulties, the box partitions
and their proper fastening to each other and to the bottom of the case require patience and
skill. Only a highly developed system of specialization could provide the cases of today at
the prevailing cost.

The bottom of the old-time case warped and split easily because it was made of a single thin
board. The modern case has a bottom made of three-ply wood, the middle layer having the grain
across that of the other two. (Fig. 3.) These three layers are thoroughly glued together and
the upper side is smoothly covered with a strong paper before the partitions are fastened to
the bottom. The common styles of case have a strong bar of the same thickness as the outside
frame across the middle. In several styles there are two or even more crossbars. These crossbars
serve not only to divide the main sections of boxes, but they also act as strong braces to
which the bottoms are fastened, giving greater rigidity to the entire case.

The bottom of the case is fitted into a groove made in the outside frame, so that it cannot
be easily separated. This groove being slightly higher than the lower face of the side frame,
upon which the case slides back and forth in the rack, keeps the bottom up far enough to allow
it to pass clear of the runs, or of any case or shelf below. The partitions are made by strips
across the full width of each section of the case from outer frame to outer frame or to crossbar.
The strips are crossed at the corners of the boxes by mortising each piece one half of its
depth at the proper place—one from above and the other from below—and dovetailing the cross
pieces together. (Fig. 4.) The corners of the boxes are then re-enforced by brass clasps made
to fit over the top of the partitions and held by a long pin driven down through the dovetailed
partitions and clinched at the bottom of the case. (See Fig. 5.).

Cases for Various Purposes

While wooden cases are used by printers chiefly for holding type fonts, they are now also used
for a large variety of auxiliary material which it is necessary to keep more or less carefully
classified in convenient containers. The increasing quantities and varieties of this material
now needed in an average composing-room make convenient receptacles and orderly, systematic
arrangement a necessity if the work is to be carried on without excessive waste. In no other
trade is there a greater multiplicity of details to be considered in order to obtain a finished
product, and a thoughtless, unnecessary waste of time, effort, or material in attending to
these details adds enormously to the expense of the product. And so it is becoming the practice
of good managers to use cases more abundantly than formerly and to store them in convenient
racks and cabinets, so that this large mass of material may be kept classified and may be obtained
quickly when needed.

Besides the ordinary pair of upper case and lower case, many styles of single cases are made
to hold a complete font of capitals, lower case, figures, points, etc., and others are planned
to hold small capitals in addition. Some are made for fonts of capitals, figures, and points
only; some for figures only (especially for time-tables and tabular work), for fractions, accented
letters, special characters and sorts, for leaders, type borders and ornaments, etc. A large
variety of cases are planned for labor-saving fonts of brass rule. Others are made especially
for spaces and quads, for leads and slugs, and for metal furniture. These are made in many
sizes, from the small space-and-rule case, 5 inches by 6¼ inches, which can be placed beside
the compositor's galley, up to the mammoth metal furniture case, 18 inches by 72 inches, covering
a space equal to the top of a double stand. Dealers' catalogs now show from seventy-five to
a hundred or more different kinds of cases for printers' use.

Compositor's Work Stands

Primarily a working case-stand for a compositor serves two purposes. It should hold the cases
in a position where he can work with reasonable comfort, and it should be fitted to contain
the necessary material for his immediate use. For the first purpose the height of the case,
working top, or shelf, should conform approximately to a level that will be comfortable for
the individual workman. A tall man may work easily at a case which would be too high for the
comfort of an apprentice, and a case at the right elevation for one below the average height
would cause a habit of tiresome, if not unhealthful, stooping in a tall person. It often happens
in some places that such conditions may not be adjusted without some bother, and an uncomfortable
temporary position may not be a serious matter for very brief periods. The tendency in well-managed
workrooms, however, is to remedy such improper situations and not to permit workmen to work
habitually under conditions which may be easily improved. “The height of a compositor and his
frame,” said an early authority among printers, “should be so adjusted that his right elbow
may just clear the front of the lower case by the a box, without the smallest elevation of
the shoulder”; and this seems a wise general rule to observe.

When the type case is placed at a height at which the compositor may stand erect before it,
the boxes are more readily reached by the hand if the back of the case is at a slight elevation.
A case lying perfectly flat must be somewhat lower, in relation to the compositor's arms, than
when it is resting at an inclination, in order to take types from it with the same facility.
Consequently the custom is to place working cases and working tops or shelves at an inclination
upward from the front to the back.

This inclination serves also as the most convenient kind of a rest for galleys upon which loose
lines of composed matter are handled. Lines of small type will not stand upright without support
of some kind, even on a perfectly level, smooth, rigid surface. The universal custom, therefore,
is to place galleys of type matter in a slanting position, so that the ends of the lines will
be higher and all the matter will rest firmly against the lower rim of the galley. A galley
in this slanting position, with the first letter in the line resting against the lower rim
and the words reading upward, is the safest and most practicable manner in which to make corrections,
lift out or insert whole lines singly or in groups, or to handle types generally in certain
difficult composition, making-up pages, etc. After the pages are tied up or surrounded by side
supports in some manner they may be conveniently handled on a level surface. Ordinary linotyped
matter, which consists of a single piece for each line of words, and consequently is not liable
to pi, may be, and usually is, handled throughout on level tables; but types are easily and
safely handled only when they may be placed against the lower rim of an inclined galley.

Case Stands and Racks

A simple and inexpensive working stand to hold type cases for composing is that shown in Fig.
18. This is made of wood and has a rack in the lower part for holding extra cases. It will
be noticed that because the rack is wide enough to take the full-size case, the top of the
stand is several inches wider than the case, and the side frames are therefore too far apart
to support the ends of the case. To enable the cases to be held safely, an extra arm is placed
inside near the side frame to hold one end of the case. The surplus space beside the working
cases is usually furnished with a sloping shelf or narrow galley rest convenient for holding
a galley, leads, or other articles, thus allowing the case to be kept clear for composing.
(See Fig. 19.)

A rack used to hold cases that are not often used is shown in Fig. 22. Racks of this kind are
made in different sizes to hold ten to thirty cases, and in double tiers to hold forty to sixty
cases.

Tall racks which hold cases too high to be reached comfortably by a person standing on the
floor are not to be commended. While they may occupy less floor space and because of this seem
to be an advantage where there are a great many cases that are seldom used, this advantage
is usually more than offset by their disadvantages. The upper cases are difficult to handle
and are liable to be pied. If the tall racks are near a window they obstruct the light.

A double stand of similar character to Fig. 18 is shown in Fig. 21, in which the space below
is fully utilized for two racks, one for full-size cases and the other for two-third cases.

Many foremen do not approve the small size cases for type in common use, preferring to have
all the cases of a standard size, so that they may fit the regular racks and stands and be
interchangeable throughout the department. To provide for this, double stands are made which
have a double tier of racks for full size cases, as shown in Fig. 20. This double stand has
the extra space on the top utilized by a narrow galley shelf in the middle between the inclined
case supports.

Another class of wooden case-stands is made with the frame having a flat top or table upon
which is fastened a set of iron brackets to hold the working cases in an inclined position.
These styles are illustrated in Fig. 23.

The Modern Type Cabinet

The closed-in cabinet is the modern plan for a compositor's working stand and for holding cases
of type in common use. This is a frame or stand enclosed at the sides and back to exclude dust
and debris from the cases. The case runs are thin (often of steel) and close together and the
fronts of the cases are made with extra high rims, so that when all are pushed into place they
present a closed front also.

The printer's cabinet is now made in a multiplicity of styles and in several sizes. The frames
are usually of hard wood, but during the past few years they have been made of pressed steel.
Usually they provide for one or more tiers of standard wooden cases for type, etc. Some of
the latest patterns combine in one structure racks for type cases and facilities for holding
assortments of the various kinds of material which a compositor ordinarily uses, with provision
for some special material, as well as ample working space for galleys, etc. They are planned
to concentrate the frequently used material near to the compositor's hands, to enable him to
save the time occupied in going from place to place about the room.

The old-style working stand or cabinet as illustrated in Figs. 20, 21, usually made it necessary
for a workman to stand directly in front of a number of cases which he rarely used but which
might be frequently used by other compositors. In small workshops this arrangement offers no
inconvenience and there need be little loss of time or patience among courteous fellow workmen.
In large departments, however, especially where floor space is pretty fully occupied and the
working spaces are narrow, a permanent workstand directly over a group of cases that are frequently
used by several persons has been found to be an annoying and time-wasting arrangement.

About thirty years ago a radical change of this practice was proposed, and is now being gradually
adopted for modern equipments. This plan places the working stand on one side of the cabinet
and the case rack on the other side, so that there is freer access to cases by all workmen.
The original styles of these stands and cabinets were called “Polhemus,” after a New York printer,
John Polhemus, who arranged his composing-room in this manner.

The case-front side of the cabinet is provided with a galley top for holding standing matter,
etc., while the opposite side (the closed-in back of the case rack) is surmounted with brackets
for type cases, galley shelf, etc., and is used as the working stand.

Polhemus cabinets (Figs. 26 and 27) and others embodying this plan have been made in a variety
of sizes—single, double, and triple cabinets, the larger sizes providing for galley racks and
sorts drawers, as well as the three tiers of type cases.

Iron Case Brackets

The cast-iron case brackets used on flat-top wooden cabinets and case racks are made in a variety
of styles. They have advantages over the case supports formed by the top of side frames of
the old style wooden stands shown in Fig. 21, in that they allow use of the space below the
cases, and provide a more convenient placing of the upper case. The style of bracket shown
on the stands illustrated in Figs. 23 and 30 allows the upper case to be brought nearer to
the front, making it easier to reach all the boxes and yet leave ample room to get at the upper
boxes of the lower case. The stand or cabinet may be placed close against a wall or other frame,
as the upper case does not overhang at the back. The position of the inclined working cases
on top may be fixed at any desired place on the top of the cabinet by changing the position
of the brackets. One style of bracket (Fig. 29) is made to fasten to the extreme fore edge
of the shelf, this bringing the front of the lower case out beyond the front line of the cabinet.

A number of years ago a tilting bracket (shown in Figs. 27 and 28) for the lower case was introduced
and this has been used to some extent. The ostensible advantage of this is to allow the lower
case to be tilted up from the front so that easier access is given to a galley shelf or other
space under the case. This is a convenience in some instances, but the unstable nature of the
case support is liable to be a disadvantage; a full case suddenly tilted is likely to cause
types to be thrown into adjoining boxes; or a galley, leads, or other material on top of the
case may slide down back when the case is tipped forward. A style of bracket which has proved
serviceable is that shown on the case stand in Fig. 30.

Brackets for holding galleys are furnished in several varieties, one of which is illustrated
in Fig. 31, etc. These are temporary rests for galleys, while the matter on them is waiting
for return of proofs, for making up, etc. They are fastened to a wall or strong frame in some
out-of-the-way place, or they may be fitted on special standards near the type cases or the
make-up table. The galley cabinet, similar to that illustrated in Fig. 32, is a more expensive
article of furniture for this purpose, but it is usually more satisfactory.

Wood Runs and Steel Runs

Early wooden case racks were fitted with strips of thin wood upon which the cases were moved
in and out. These slender strips were not always of perfect grain and were difficult to attach
firmly to the side frame. They warped and split easily, and the nails and screws with which
they were fastened would work loose. In order to have them strong they had to be thick, and
this thickness gave a wide space between the cases so that fewer cases could be kept in a given
space.

To avoid these disadvantages case runs are now made of flat strips of steel fastened to the
side frames of the rack or cabinet. In some cabinets they are fitted between side slats of
wood, and a couple of perpendicular iron rods are run through holes in the slats and the steel
strips from top to bottom of the rack, binding the pieces together and to the side frame, making
a particularly substantial rack. Another style of steel run is made of a wider strip of iron
bent the entire length into a right-angle shape. Screw holes on one side of this angle strip
enable it to be fastened to the side frame, the other angle of the strip being used to support
the case.

Extension Fronts and Backs

In all composing-rooms there are many cases at which it is necessary to work for only a few
moments at a time, to set a single line, or to make a correction, etc. In order that cases
kept in racks or cabinets may be used quickly it is necessary that each one may be pulled out
clear of the case above, so that all the boxes at the rear are accessible. In the old-style
racks this was attained by having the runs several inches longer than the width of the case,
and placing an upright strip or stop at the rear to allow the cases to be pushed back far enough
to leave three or more inches of the run exposed in front. This front space is sufficient to
support the case temporarily while it is pulled out from those above in full view. (Fig. 33.)

In many type cabinets, however, the practice is to keep the front of all cases flush with the
front of the cabinet frame. This allows no front support for a case that is pulled out far
enough to expose all the boxes, and so the side frames or rims of the cases are extended three
or four inches back beyond the case itself. These extensions serve as stout arms at the rear
of the case to hold it in the front of the rack when the case is pulled forward. When the case
is carefully handled this plan serves the purpose if the extensions themselves are not drawn
entirely clear of the case above. Its security depends somewhat upon the style of the runs
and how carefully the cases fit their places. A disadvantage of this plan is that the cases
having these long rear extensions are awkward to place when they are taken from their racks
to be used on top of ordinary working stands.

The later method of providing for this is to place the cases further back in the rack, as in
the old-style stand, and have the runs on the cabinet extended entirely to the front. This
is the extension front, and in modern cabinets the rims are of thin steel, as already described.
(Fig. 34.) With this arrangement the cases have no protruding arms and can be conveniently
placed anywhere; standard cabinet cases can be placed on working stands or temporarily in any
convenient case rack.

Furniture Racks

In the composing-room of a generation ago—and unfortunately in some unprogressive places today—the
strips of blank material known as reglet and wood furniture were usually kept in disorderly
manner in a large box or drawer under or near the imposing stone. The material was usually
obtained in lengths of one yard and a small hand-saw was at hand to cut any lengths required.
In time there was an accumulation of all sorts jumbled together in the drawer in a manner to
make it difficult to find needed pieces without loss of time. Often the quickest way to obtain
the right piece was to cut off a longer one.

This wasteful method was the universal custom before the era of the labor-saving assortment
stored in orderly fashion in a cabinet and placed within instant reach of the workman. The
common-sense modern method is the well-stocked rack or cabinet with a compartment for each
size of the series, with the compartments numbered and the larger pieces of the material numbered
to correspond. An arrangement like this invites an orderly habit in persons who would otherwise
be careless.

The usual style of furniture rack is shown in Fig. 35. This is made in several sizes to hold
quantities large or small according to the requirements of the room. The position of a rack
like this should be near the stone at a level near the height of the working surface.

Another style of furniture and reglet rack is that fitted into the frame of the imposing table
or into an adjoining stand or cabinet. This is illustrated in Fig. 36. It will be noticed that
all the different lengths present a surface flush with the outside of the frame. This is because
the depth of the compartments is varied to accommodate the several lengths of furniture at
the back, instead of at the front as shown in Fig. 35.

Special Cabinets

Among the new articles supplied for the compositor's use are cabinets for holding assortments
of metal furniture, brass rules, leads, slugs, and small cases or drawers for special material.
The tops of some of these cabinets hold the lead and rule cutter and the rule-mitering machine,
with a small inclined shelf above, as shown in Fig. 38. These cabinets will hold a large amount
of material in small space. When conveniently situated and properly supplied with material
they save time and effort on the part of the compositor.

Another cabinet that is useful is the script type cabinet. This holds the cases inclined upward
from the left. The compartments are narrow, running horizontally with the front. In these the
types are held face up, so that they may not be injured by rattling about when the case is
moved back and forth. The cases may be used for borders, special characters, or any small items
which it is desired to keep standing face upward. The compartments of the cases may be made
wide or narrow to accommodate the size of the types they are to hold.

The apprentice who wants to learn about the latest and best feature of composing room equipment
should make a special point to examine the catalogues of manufacturers and dealers in printers'
supplies. These catalogues continually show new and improved articles that are finely illustrated
and specifically described as to their particular advantages.

REVIEW QUESTIONS

SUGGESTIONS TO STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTORS

The following questions, based on the contents of this pamphlet, are intended to serve (1)
as a guide to the study of the text, (2) as an aid to the student in putting the information
contained into definite statements without actually memorizing the text, (3) as a means of
securing from the student a reproduction of the information in his own words.

A careful following of the questions by the reader will insure full acquaintance with every
part of the text, avoiding the accidental omission of what might be of value. These primers
are so condensed that nothing should be omitted.

