Lalta Sing, of the Nikomee Rajpoot tribe, whom I had lately an opportunity of assisting, for
his good services in arresting outlays [outlaws ?] from our territories, has just been to pay
his respects. Our next encamping ground is to be on his estate of Kurheya and Para. He tells
me that very few families of his tribe now destroy their female infants; that tradition ascribes
the origin of this evil to the practice of the Mahommedan emperors of Delhi of demanding daughters
in marriage from the Rajpoot princes of the country; that some of them were too proud to comply
with the demand, and too weak to resist it in any other way than that of putting all their
female infants to death. This is not impossible. He says that he believes the Dhankuries, whom
I have described above to be really the only tribe of Rajpoots among whom no family destroys
its infant daughters in Oude; that all tribes of Rajpoots get money with the daughters they
take from tribes a shade lower in caste, to whom they cannot give theirs in return; and pay
money with the daughters they give in marriage to tribes a shade higher, who will not give
their daughters to them in return. The native collector of Shahabad, a gentlemanly Mahommedan,
came out two miles to pay his respects on my approach, and we met on a large space of land,
lying waste, while all around was covered with rich crops. I asked, "Pray why is this land
left waste?" "It is, sir, altogether unproductive." "Why is this? It seems to me to be just
as good as the rest around, which produces such fine crops." "It is called khubtee--slimy,
and is said to be altogether barren." "I assure you, sir," said Rajah Bukhtawar Sing, "that
it is good land, and capable of yielding good crops, under good tillage, or it would not produce
the fine grass you see upon it. You must not ask men like this about the kinds and qualities
of soils for they really know nothing whatever about them: they are city gentlemen's sons,
who get into high places, and pass their lives in them without learning anything but how to
screw money out of such as we are, who are born upon the soil, and depend upon its produce
all our lives for subsistence. Ask him, sir, whether either he or any of his ancestors ever
knew anything of the difference between one soil and another."

The collector acknowledged the truth of what the old man said, and told me that he really knew
nothing about the matter, and had merely repeated what the people told him. This is true with
regard to the greater part of the local revenue officers employed in Oude. "One of these city
gentlemen, sir," said. Bukhtawar Sing, "when sent out as a revenue collector, in Saadut Allee's
time, was asked by his assistants what they were to do with a crop of sugar-cane which had
been attached for balances, and was becoming too ripe, replied, 'Cut it down, to be sure, and
have it stacked!' He did not know that sugar-cane must, as soon as cut, be taken to the mill,
or it spoils." "I have heard of another," said the old Rusaldar Nubbee Buksh, "who, after he
entered upon his charge, asked the people about him to show him the tree on which grew the
fine istamalee* rice which they used at Lucknow." "There is no question, sir," said Bukhtawar
Sing, "that is too absurd, for these cockney gentlemen to ask when they enter upon such revenue
charges as these. They are the aristocracy of towns and cities, who are learned enough in books
and court ceremonies and intrigues, but utterly ignorant of country life, rural economy, and
agricultural industry."

[* The istamalee rice is rice of fine quality, which has been kept for some years before used.
To be good, rice must be kept for some years before used, and that only which has been so kept
is called istamalee or useable.]

For a cantonment or civil station, the ground to the north of Shahabad, on the left-hand side
of the road leading to Mahomdee, seems the best. It is a level plain, of a stiff soil formed
of clay and sand, and not very productive.

The country, from Sandee and Shahabad to the rivers Ganges and Ramgunga, is one rich sheet
of spring cultivation; and the estate of Kuteearee, above described, is among the richest portions
of this sheet. The portions on which the richest crops now stand became waste during the disorders
which followed the expulsion of Runjeet Sing, in the usual way, in 1837, and derived the usual
benefit from the salutary fallow. A stranger passing through such a sheet of rich cultivation,
without communing with the people, would little suspect the fearful crimes that are every year
committed upon it, from the weakness and apathy of the Government, and the bad faith and bad
character of its officers and chief landholders. The land is tilled in spite of all obstacles,
because all depend upon its produce for subsistence; but there is no indication of the beneficial
interference of the Government for the protection of life, property, and character, and for
the encouragement of industry and the display of its fruits. The land is ploughed, and the
seed sown, often by stealth at night, in the immediate vicinity of a sanguinary contest between
the Government officers and the landholders. It is only when the latter are defeated, and take
to the jungles, or the Honourable Company's districts, and commence their indiscriminate plunder,
that the cultivator ceases from his labours, and the lands are left waste.

Runjeet Sing two or three years ago seized upon the village of Mulatoo, in his vicinity, to
which he had no claim whatever, and he has forcibly retained it. It had long paid Government
ten thousand a- year, but he has consented to pay only one thousand. Lands yielding above nine
thousand he has cut off from its rent-roll, and added to those of his hereditary villages on
the borders. Last year he seized upon the village of Nudua, with a rent-roll of fourteen hundred
rupees, and he holds it with a party of soldiers and two guns. The Amil lately sent out a person
with a small force to demand the Government dues; but they were driven back, as he pretends
that he got it in mortgage from Dumber Sing, who had taken a short lease of that and other
khalsa villages, and absconded as a defaulter; and that he has purchased the lands from the
cultivating proprietors, and is, therefore, bound to pay no revenue whatever for them-to the
King. All defaulters and offenders who take refuge on his estate he instigates to plunder,
and provides with gangs, on condition of getting the greater part of the booty. He thinks that
he is sure of shelter in the British territory, should he be driven from Oude; he feels also
sure of aid from other large landholders of the same class in the neighbourhood.

January 30, 1850.--Kurheya Para, twelve miles, over a plain of excellent muteear soil, a good
deal of which-is covered with jungle. Para is a short distance from Kurheya, and our camp is
midway between the two villages. The boundary of the Sandee Palee and Mahomdee districts we
crossed about four miles from our present encampment. This district, of Mahomdee was taken
in contract by Hakeem Mehndee, at three lacs and eleven thousand rupees a-year, in 1804 A.D.,
and in a few years he brought it into full tillage, and made it yield above seven lacs. It
has been falling off ever since it was taken from him, and now yields only between three and
four lacs. The jungle is studded with large peepul-trees, which are all shorn of their small
branches and leaves. The landholders and cultivators told me that they were taken off by the
cowherds who grazed their buffaloes, bullocks, and cows in these jungles; that they formed
their chief and, in the cold season, their best food, as the leaves of the peepul-tree were
supposed to give warmth to the stomach, and to increase the quantity of the milk; that the
cowherds were required to pay nothing for the privilege of grazing their cattle in these jungles,
by the person to whom the lands belonged, because they enriched the soil with their manure,
and all held small portions of land under tillage, for which they paid rent; that they had
the free use of the peepul-trees in the jungles, but were not permitted to touch those on the
cultivated lands and in villages.

White ants are so numerous in the argillaceous muteear soil, in which their food abounds, that
it is really dangerous to travel on an elephant, or swiftly on horseback, over a new road cut
or enlarged through any portion of it that has remained long untilled. The two fore legs of
my elephant went down yesterday morning into a deep pit made by them, but concealed by the
new road, which has been made over it for the occasion of my visit near Shahabad, and it was
with some difficulty that he extricated them. We have had several accidents of the same kind
since we came out. In cutting a new road they cut through large ant-hills, and leave no trace
of the edifices or the gulf below them, which the little insects have made in gathering their
food and raising their lofty habitation. They are not found in the bhoor or oosur soils, and
in comparatively small numbers in the doomuteea or lighter soil, but they abound In the muteear
soil in proportion to its richness. Cultivation, where the crops are irrigated, destroys them,
and the only danger is in passing over new roads cut through jungle, or lands that have remained
long untilled, or along the sides of old pathways, from which these land-marks have been removed
in hastily widening them for wheeled carriages.

A Brahmin cultivator, whose cart we had been obliged to press into our own service for this
stage, came along with me almost all the way. He said, "The spring crops of this season, sir,
are no doubt very fine; but in days of yore, before the curse of Bhurt Jee (the brother of
Ram) came upon the landholders and cultivators of Oude, they were much finer; when he set out
from his capital of Ajoodheea for the conquest of Cylone, he left the administration to his
brother, Bhurt Jee, who made a liberal settlement of the land tax. He put a ghurra or pitcher,
with a round bottom, turned upside down, into every half acre (beegha) of the cultivated land,
and required the landholder or cultivator to leave upon it, as much of the grain produced as
the rounded bottom would retain, which could not be one ten-thousandth part of the produce;
he lived economically, and collected at this rate during the many years that his brother was
absent. But when his brother returned and approached the boundary of his dominions, he met
hosts of landholders and cultivators clamouring against the rapacity and oppression of his
brother's administration. The humanity of Ram's disposition was shocked, sir, at all this,
and he became angry with his brother before he heard what he had to say. When Bhurt had satisfied
his brother that he had not taken from them the thousandth part of what he had a right to take,
and Ram had, indeed, taken from them himself, he sighed at the wickedness and ingratitude of
the agricultural classes of Oude; and the baneful effects of this sad sigh has been upon us
ever since, sir, in spite of all we can do to avert them. In order to have the blessing of
God upon our labours, it is necessary for us to fulfil strictly all the responsibilities under
which we hold and till the land; first, to pay punctually the just demands of Government; second,
all the wages of the labour employed; third, all the charities to the poor; fourth, all the
offerings to our respective tutelary gods; fifth, a special offering to Mahabeer, alias Hunooman.
These payments and offerings, sir, must all be made before the cultivator can safely take the
surplus produce to his store-room for sale and consumption."

Old Bukhtawar Sing, who was riding by my side, said, "A conscientious farmer or cultivator,
sir, when he finds that his field yields a great deal more than the usual returns, that is
when it yields twenty instead of the usual return of ten, gives the whole in charity, lest
evil overtake him from his unusual good luck and inordinate exultation."

I asked the Brahmin cultivator why all these offerings were required to be made by cultivators
in particular? He replied, "There is, sir, no species of tillage in which the lives of numerous
insects are not sacrificed, and it is to atone for these numerous murders, and the ingratitude
to Bhurt, that cultivators, in particular, are required to make so many offerings;" and, he
added, "much sin, sir, is no doubt brought upon the land by the murder of so many female infants.
I believe, sir, that all the tribes of Rajpoots murder them; and I do not think than one in
ten is suffered to live. If the family or village priest did not consent to eat with the parents
after the murder, no such murders could take place, sir; for none, even of their nearest relatives,
will ever eat with them till the Brahmin has done so."

The bearers of the tonjohn in which I sat, said, "We do not believe, sir, that one girl in
twenty among the Rajpoots is preserved. Davey Buksh, the Gonda Rajah, is, we believe, the only
one of the Biseyn Rajpoot tribe who preserves his daughters;* his father did the same, and
his sister, who was married to the Bhudoreea Rajah of Mynpooree, came to see him lately on
the occasion of a pilgrimage to Ajoodheea, on the death of her husband; of the six Kulhuns
families of Chehdwara, two only preserve their daughters--Surnam Sing of Arta, and Jeskurn
of Kumeear; but whether their sons or successors in the estates will do the same is uncertain."
These bearers are residents of that district.

[* There are a great many families of the Biseyn Rajpoots who never destroy their infant daughters.]

I may here remark, that oak-trees in the hills of the Himmelah chain are disfigured in the
same manner, and for the same purpose, as the peepul and banyan trees are here; their small
branches and leaves are torn off to supply fodder for bullocks and other animals. The ilex
of the hills has not, however, in its nakedness the majesty of the peepul and banyan of the
plains, though neither of them can be said to be "when unadorn'd, adorn'd the most."

January 31, 1850.--Puchgowa, north-east, twelve miles over a plain of doomuteea soil, a good
deal of which is out of tillage at present. On the road we came through several neat villages,
the best of which was occupied exclusively by the families of the Kunojeea Brahmin proprietors,
and the few persons of inferior caste who ploughed their lands for them, as they are a shade
too high in caste to admit of their holding their own ploughs. They are, however, very worthy
people, and seemed very much pleased at being put so much at their ease in a talk with the
great man about their own domestic and rural economy. They told me, that they did not permit
Rajpoots to reside in or have anything to do with their village.

"Why?" I asked.--"Because, sir, if they once get a footing among us, they are, sooner or later,
sure to turn us all out." "How?"--"They get lands by little and little at lease, soon refuse
to pay rent, declare the lands to be their own, collect bad characters for plunder, join the
Rajpoots of their own clan in all the villages around in their enterprises, take to the jungles
on the first occasion, of a dispute, attack, plunder, and burn the village, murder us and our
families, and soon get the estate for themselves, on their own terms from the local authorities,
who are wearied out by the loss of revenue arising from their depredations; our safety, sir,
depends upon our keeping entirely aloof from them."

Under a government so weak, the only men who prosper seem to be these landholders of the military
classes who are strong in their union, clan feeling, courage, and ferocity. The villages here
are numerous though not large, and by far the greater part are occupied by Rajpoots of the
Nikomee tribe.

The Amil of the Mahomdee district, Krishun Sahae, had come out so far as Para to meet me, and
have my camp supplied. He had earned a good reputation as a native collector of long standing
in the Shajehanpore district, under Mr. Buller; but being ambitious to rise more rapidly than
he could hope to do, under our settled government, he came to Lucknow with a letter of introduction
from Mr. Buller to the Resident, Colonel Richmond, paid his court to the Durbur, got appointed
Amil of the Mahomdee district, under the amanee system, paid his nazuranas on his investiture,
in October last, and entered upon his charge. A few days ago it pleased the minister to appoint
to his place Aboo Toorab Khan, the nephew and son-in-law of Moonowur-ood Dowla; and orders
were sent out immediately, by a camel-messenger, to the commandants of the corps on duty, with
Krishun Sahae, to seize and send him, his family, and all his relations and dependents, with
all his property to be found upon them, to Lucknow. The wakeel, whom he kept at Court for such
occasions, heard of the order for the supercession and arrest, and forthwith sent off a note
to his master by the fastest foot-messenger he could get. The camel-messenger found that the
Amil had left Mahomdee, and gone out two stages to Para, to meet the Resident. He waited to
deliver his message to the commandants and subordinate civil officers of the district, and
see that they secured all the relatives, dependents, and property of the Amil that could be
found. The foot-messenger, more wise, went on, and delivered his letter to Krishun Sahae; at
Para, on the evening of Tuesday the 29th. He ordered his elephant very quietly, and mounting,
told the driver to take him to a village on the road to Shajehanpoor.

On reaching the village about midnight, the driver asked him whither he was going--"I am flying
from my enemies," said Krishun Sahae; "and we must make all haste, or we shall be overtaken
before we reach the boundary." "But," said the driver, "my house and family are at Lucknow,
and the one will be pulled to the ground and the other put into gaol if I fly with you." Krishun
Sahae drew out a pistol and threatened to shoot him if he did not drive on as told. They were
near a field of sugar-cane, and the driver hedged away towards it, without the Amil's perceiving
his intention. When they got near the field the elephant dashed in among the cane to have a
feast; and the driver in his seeming effort to bring him out, fell off and disappeared under
the high cane. The Amil did all he could to get out his elephant, but the animal felt that
he was no longer in danger of severe treatment from above, and had a very comfortable meal
before him in the fine ripe cane, and would not move. The poor Amil was obliged to descend,
and make all possible haste on foot across the border, attended by one servant who had accompanied
him in his flight. The driver ran to the village and got the people to join him in the pursuit
of his master, saying that he was making off with a good deal of the King's money. With an
elephant load of the King's money in prospect, they made all the haste they could; but the
poor Amil got safely over the border into British territory. They found the elephant dining
very comfortably on the sugar-cane. After abusing the driver and all his female relations for
deluding them with the hope of a rich booty, they permitted him to take the empty elephant
to the new Amil at Mahomdee. News of all this reached my camp last night.

I omitted to mention that, at Busora on the 27th, a Rajpoot landholder of the Sombunsie tribe,
came to my camp with a petition regarding a mortgage, and mentioned that he had a daughter,
now two years of age; that when she was born he was out in his fields, and the females of the
family put her into an earthen pot, buried her in the floor of the apartment, where the mother
lay, and lit a fire over the grave; that he made all haste home as soon as he heard of the
birth of a daughter, removed the fire and earth from the pot, and took out his child. She was
still living, but two of her fingers which had not been sufficiently covered were a good deal
burnt. He had all possible care taken of her, and she still lives, and both he and his wife
are very fond of her. Finding that his tale interested me, he went home for the child; but
his village was far off, and he has not been able to overtake me. He had given no orders to
have her preserved, as his wife was confined sooner than he expected; but the family took it
for granted that she was to be destroyed, and in running home to preserve her he acted on the
impulse of the moment. The practice of destroying female infants is so general among this tribe,
that a family commonly destroys the daughter as soon as born, when the father is from home,
and has given no special orders about it, taking it to be his wish as a matter of course.

Several respectable landholders of the Chouhan, Nikomee, and other tribe of Rajpoots, were
talking to me yesterday evening, and as they were connected by marriage with Rajpoot families
of the same and higher clans in the British territories, I asked them whether some plan could
not be devised to suppress the evil in Oude, as it had been suppressed there; for the disorders
which prevailed seemed to me to be only a visitation from above for such an all-pervading sin.
They told me that there would be little difficulty in putting down this system under an honest
and strong Government that would secure rights, enforce duties, and protect life and property,
as in the British territories. Atrocious and cruel as this crime is in Oude, it is hardly more
so than that which not long ago prevailed in France and other nations of Europe, of burying
their daughters alive in nunneries in order to gratify the same family pride.

It is painful to me to walk out of my tent of an evening, for I have every day large crowds
seeking redress for grievous wrongs, for which I see no hope of redress: men and women, who
have had their dearest relatives murdered, their houses burnt down, their whole property taken
away, their lands seized upon, their crops destroyed by ruffians residing in the same or neighbouring
villages, and actually in the camp of the Amil, without the slightest fear of being punished
or made to surrender any portion of what they have taken. The Government authorities are too
weak, even to enforce the payment of the Government demand, and have not the means to seize
or punish offenders of any kind, if they have the inclination. In some districts they not only
acquiesce in the depredations of these gangs of robbers, but act in collusion with their leaders,
in order to get their aid in punishing defaulters or pretended defaulters, among the landholders.
They murder the landholders, and as many as possible of their families, and as a reward for
their services the local authorities make over their lands to them at reduced rates.

The Nazim of Sandee Palee told me on taking leave, that he had only two wings of Nujeeb Regiments
with him, one of which was fit for some service, and in consequence, spread over the district
on detached duties. The other was with him, but out of the five hundred, for which he had to
issue monthly pay, he should not be able to get ten men to follow him on any emergency. They
are obliged to court and conciliate the strong and reckless who prey upon the weak and industrious;
and in consequence become despised and detested by the people. I feel like one moving among
a people afflicted with incurable diseases, who crowd around him in hope, and are sent away
in despair. I try to make the local authorities exert themselves in behalf of the sufferers;
but am told that they have already done their utmost in vain; that if they seize robbers and
murderers and send them to Lucknow, they are sure to purchase their enlargement and return
to wreak their vengeance on them and on all who have aided them in their arrest and conviction;
that if they attempt to seize one of the larger landholders, who refuses to pay the Government
demand, seizes upon the lands of his weaker neighbours, and murders and robs them indiscriminately,
he removes across the Ganges, into one of the Honourable Company's districts, and thence sends
his myrmidons to plunder and lay waste the whole country, till he is invited back by a weak
and helpless Government upon his own terms; that formerly British troops were employed in support
of the local authorities against offenders of this class; but that of late years all such aid
and support have been withdrawn from the Oude Government, while the offenders find all they
require from the subjects and police authorities of the bordering British districts.

The country we passed over to-day, between Para and Puchgowa, is a plain, beautifully studded
with groves and fine solitary trees, in great perfection. The bandha or mistletoe, upon the
mhowa and mango trees, is in full blossom, and adds much to their beauty; the soil is good,
and the surface everywhere capable of tillage, with little labour or outlay; for the jungle
where it prevails the most is of grass, and the small palas-trees (butea-frondosa) which may
be-easily uprooted. The whole surface of Oude is, indeed, like a gentleman's park of the most
beautiful description, as far as the surface of the ground and the foliage go. Five years of
good Government would make it one of the most beautiful parterres in nature. To plant a large
grove, as it ought to be, a Hindoo thinks it necessary to have the following trees:--

The banyan, or burgut; peepul, ficus religiosa; mango; tamarind; jamun, eugenia jambolana;
bele, cratoeva marmelos; pakur, ficus venosa; mhowa, bassia latifolia; oula, phyllanthus emblica;
goolur, figus glomerata; kytha, feronia elephantum; kuthal, or jack; moulsaree, mimusops elengi;
kuchnar, bauhinea variegata; neem, melia azadirachta; bere, fizyphus jujuba; horseradish, sahjuna;
sheeshum, dalbergia sisa; toon, adrela toona; and chundun, or sandal.

Where he can get or afford to plant only a small space, he must confine himself to the more
sacred and generally useful of these trees; and they are the handsomest in appearance. Nothing
can be more beautiful than one of those groves surrounded by fields teeming with rich spring
crops, as they are at present; and studded here and there with fine single banyan, peepul,
tamarind, mhowa, and cotton trees, which, in such positions, attain their highest perfection,
as if anxious to display their greatest beauties, where they can be seen to the most advantage.
Each tree has there free space for its roots, which have the advantage of the water supplied
to the fields around in irrigation, and a free current of air, whose moisture is condensed
upon its leaves and stems by their cooler temperature, while its carbonic acid and ammonia
are absorbed and appropriated to their exclusive use. Its branches, unincommoded by the proximity
of other trees, spread out freely, and attain their utmost size and beauty.

I may here mention what are the spring crops which now in a luxuriance not known for many years,
from fine falls of rain in due season, embellish the surface over which we are passing :--

Spring Crops.--Wheat; barley; gram; arahur, of two kinds (pulse); musoor (pulse); alsee (linseed);
surson (a species of fine mustard); moong (pulse); peas, of three kinds; mustard; sugar-cane,
of six kinds; koosum (safflower); opium; and palma christi.

February 1, 1850.--Mahomdee, eleven miles, over a level plain of muteear soil of the best quality,
well supplied with groves and single trees of the finest kind; but a good deal of the land
is out of tillage, and covered with the rank grass, called garur, the roots of which form the
fragrant khus, for tatties, in the hot winds; and dhak (butea frondosa) jungle. Several villages,
through and near which we passed, belong to Brahmin zumeendars, who were driven away last year
by the rapacity of the contractor, Mahomed Hoseyn, a senseless oppressor, who was this year
superseded by a very good officer and worthy man, who was driven out with disgrace, as described
yesterday, while engaged in inviting back the absconded cultivators to these deserted villages,
and providing them with the means of bringing their lands again into tillage. Hoseyn Allee
had seized and sold all their plough-bullocks, and other agricultural stock, between the autumn
and spring harvests, together with all the spring crops, as they became ripe, to make good
the increased rate of revenue demanded; and they were all turned out beggars, to seek subsistence
among their relatives and friends, in our bordering district of Shajehanpoor. The rank grass
and jungle are full of neelgae and deer of all kinds; and the cowherds, who remain to graze
their cattle on the wide plains, left waste, find it very difficult to preserve their small
fields of corn from their trespass. They are said to come in herds of hundreds around these
fields during the night, and to be frequently followed by tigers, several of which were killed
last year, by Captain Hearsey, of the Frontier Police. Waste lands, more distant from the great
Tarae forest, are free from tigers.

I had a long talk with the Brahmin communities of two of these villages, who had been lately
invited back from the Shajehanpoor district, by Krishun Sahae, and resettled on their lands.
They are a mild, sensible, and most respectable body, whom a sensible ruler would do all in
his power to protect and encourage; but these are the class; of landholders and cultivators
whom the reckless governors of districts, under the Oude Government, most grievously oppress.
They told me--"that nothing could be better than the administration of the Shajehanpoor district
by the present collector and magistrate, Mr. Buller, whom all classes loved and respected;
that the whole surface of the country was under tillage, and the poorest had as much protection
as the highest in the land; that the whole district was, indeed, a garden." "But the returns,
are they equal to those from your lands in Oude?"--"Nothing like it, sir; they are not half
as good; nor can the cultivator afford to pay half the rate that we pay when left to till our
lands in peace." "And why is this?"--"Because, sir, ours is sometimes left waste to recover
its powers, as you now see all the land around you, while theirs has no rest" "But do they
not alternate their crops, to relieve the soil?"--"Yes, sir, but this is not enough: ours receive
manure from the herds of cattle and deer that graze upon it while fallow: and we have greater
stores of manure than they have, to throw over it when we return and resume our labours. We
alternate our crops, at the same time, as much as they do; and plough and cross-plough our
lands more." "And where would you rather live--there, protected as the people are from all
violence, or here, exposed as you are to all manner of outrage and extortion."-- "We would
rather live here, sir, if we could; and we were glad to come back." "And why? There the landholders
and cultivators are sure that no man will be permitted to exact a higher rate of rent or revenue
than that which they voluntarily bind themselves to pay during the period of a long lease;
while here you are never sure that the terms of your lease will be respected for a single season."--
"That is all true, sir, but we cannot understand the 'aen and kanoon' (the rules and regulations),
nor should we ever do so; for we found that our relations, who had been settled there for many
generations, were just as ignorant of them as ourselves. Your Courts of justice (adawluts)
are the things we most dread, sir; and we are glad to escape from them as soon as we can, in
spite of all the evils we are exposed to on our return to the place of our birth. It is not
the fault of the European gentlemen who preside over them, for they are anxious to do, and
have justice done, to all; but, in spite of all their efforts, the wrong-doer often escapes,
and the sufferer is as often punished."

"The truth, sir, is seldom told in these Courts. There they think of nothing but the number
of witnesses, as if all were alike; here, sir, we look to the quality. When a man suffers wrong,
the wrong-doer is summoned before the elders, or most respectable men of his village or clan;
and if he denies the charge and refuses redress, he is told to bathe, put his hand upon the
peepul-tree, and declare aloud his innocence. If he refuses, he is commanded to restore what
he has taken, or make suitable reparation for the injury he has done; and if he refuses to
do this, he is punished by the odium of all, and his life becomes miserable. A man dares not,
sir, put his hand upon that sacred tree and deny the truth--the gods sit in it and know all
things; and the offender dreads their vengeance. In your adawluts, sir, men do not tell the
truth so often as they do among their own tribes, or village communities--they perjure themselves
in all manner of ways, without shame or dread; and there are so many men about these Courts,
who understand the 'rules and regulations,' and are so much interested in making truth appear
to be falsehood, and falsehood truth, that no man feels sure that right will prevail in them
in any case. The guilty think they have just as good a chance of escape as the innocent. Our
relations and friends told us, that all this confusion of right and wrong, which bewildered
them, arose from the multiplicity of the 'rules and regulations,' which threw all the power
into the hands of bad men, and left the European gentlemen helpless!"

"But you know that the crime of murdering female infants, which pervades the whole territory
of Oude, and brings the curse of God upon it, has been suppressed in the British territory,
in spite of these 'aens and kanoons?'"--"True, sir, it has been put down in your bordering
districts; but the Rajpoot families who reside in them manage to escape your vigilance, and
keep up the evil practice. They intermarry with Rajpoot families in Oude, and the female infants,
born of the daughters they give in marriage to Oude families, are destroyed in Oude without
fear or concealment; while the daughters they receive in marriage, from Oude families, are
sent over the border into Oude, when near their confinement, on the pretence of visiting their
relations. If they give birth to boys, they bring them back with them into your districts;
but if they give birth to girls, they are destroyed in the same manner, and no questions are
ever asked about them." "Do you ever eat or drink with Rajpoot parents who destroy their female
infants?"--"Never, sir! we are Brahmins, but we can take water in a brass vessel from the hands
of a Rajpoot, and we do so when his family is unstained with this crime; but nothing would
ever tempt us to drink water from the hands of one who permitted his daughters to be murdered."
"Do you ever eat with the village or family priest who has given absolution to parents who
have permitted their daughters to be murdered, by eating in the room where the murder has been
perpetrated?"--"Never, sir; we abhor him as a participator in the crime; and nothing would
ever induce one of us to eat or associate with him: he takes all the sin upon his own head
by doing so, and is considered by us as an outcast from the tribe, and accursed! It is they
who keep up this fearful usage. Tigers and wolves cherish their offspring, and are better than
these Rajpoots, who out of family or clan pride, destroy theirs. As soon as their wives give
birth to sons, they fire off guns, give largely in charity, make offerings to shrines, and
rejoice in all manner of ways; but when they give birth to poor girls, they bury them alive
without pity, and a dead silence prevails in the house; it is no wonder, sir, that you say
that the curse of God is upon the land in which such sins prevail!"

The quality of testimony, no doubt, like that of every other commodity, deteriorates under
a system, which renders the good of no more value in exchange than the bad. The formality of
our Courts here, as everywhere else, tends to impair, more or less, the quality of what they
receive. The simplicity of Courts, composed of little village communities and elders, tends,
on the contrary, to improve the quality of the testimony they get; and in India, it is found
to be best in the isolated hamlets of hills and forests, where men may be made to do almost
anything rather than tell a lie. A Marhatta pandit, in the valley of the Nerbudda, once told
me, that it was almost impossible to teach a wild Gond of the hills and jungles the occasional
value of a lie! It is the same with the Tharoos and Booksas, who are, almost exclusively the
cultivators of the Oude Tarae forest, and with the peasantry of the Himmalaya chain of mountains,
before they have come much in contact with people of the plains, and become subject to the
jurisdiction of our Courts. These Courts are, everywhere, our weak point in the estimation
of our subjects; and they should be, everywhere, simplified to meet the wants and wishes of
so simple a people.

That the lands, under the settled Government of the Honourable East India Company, are becoming
more and more deteriorated by overcropping is certain; and an Indian statesman will naturally
inquire, what will be the probable consequence to the people and the Government? To the people,
the consequence must be, a rise in the price of land produce, proportioned to the increased
cost of producing and bringing to market what is required for consumption. The price in the
market must always be sufficient to cover the cost of producing, and bringing what is required
from the poorest and most distant lands to which that market is at any time obliged to have
recourse for supply; and as these lands deteriorate in their powers of fertility, recourse
must be had to lands more distant, or more cost must be incurred in manure, irrigation, &c.,
to make these, already had recourse to, to produce the same quantity, or both. The price in
the market must rise to meet the increased outlay required, or that outlay will not be made;
and the market cannot be supplied.

As men have to pay more for the Land produce they require, they will have less to lay out in
other things; and as they cannot do without the land produce, they must be satisfied with less
of other things, till their incomes increase to meet the necessity for increased outlay. People
will get this increase in proportion as their labour, services, talents, or acquirements are
more or less indispensable to the society; and the price of other things will diminish, as
the cost of producing and bringing them to market diminishes, with improvements in manufactures,
and in the facilities of transport. No very serious injury to the people of our territories
is, therefore, to be apprehended from the inevitable deterioration in the natural powers of
the soil, under our settled Government, which gives so much security to life, property, and
character, and so much encouragement to industry.

The consequence to the Government will be less serious than might at first appear. Under a
system of limited settlements of the land- revenue, such as prevail over all our dominions,
except in Bengal, the Government is in reality the landlord; and our land-revenue is in reality
land-rent.* We alienate a portion of that rent for limited periods in favour of those with
whom we make such settlements, and take all the rest ourselves. On an average, perhaps, our
Government takes one-sixth of the gross produce of the land; and the persons, with whom the
settlements are made, take another sixth. The net rent, which the Government and they divide
equally between them, may be taken, on an average, at one-third of the gross produce of the
land. The cultivator would, I believe, always be glad to take and cultivate land, on an average,
on condition of giving one-third of the gross produce, or the value of one-third, to be divided
between the Government and its lessee; and the lessee will always consider himself fortunate
if he gets one-half of this third, to cover the risk and cost of management.

* I believe our Government committed a great political and social error, when it declared all
the land to be the property of the lessees: and all questions regarding it to be cognizable
by Judicial Courts. It would have been better for the people, as well as the Government, had
all such questions been left to the Fiscal and Revenue Courts. There is the same regular series
of these Courts, from the Tuhseeldar to the Revenue Sudder Board, as of the Judicial Courts,
from the Moonsiff to the Judicial Sudder Board; and they are all composed of the same class
of persons, with the same character and motives to honest exertion. Why force men to run the
gauntlet through both series? It tends to make the Government to be considered as a rapacious
tax-gatherer, instead of a liberal landlord, which it really is; and to foster the growth of
a host of native pettifogging attorneys, to devour, like white ants, the substance of the landholders
of all classes and grades.

Where the soil of a particular village in a district deteriorates, an immediate reduction in
the assessment must be given, or the lands will be deserted. If the Government does not consent
to such a reduction, the lessee must sustain the whole burthen, for he cannot shift it off
upon the cultivators, without driving them from the lands. The lessee may sustain the whole
burthen for one or two years; but if the officers of Government attempt to make him sustain
it longer, they drive him after his cultivators, and the land is left waste. I have seen numerous
estates of villages and some districts made waste by such attempts in India. I have seen land
in such estates, which, when unexhausted, yielded, on an average, twelve returns of the seed,
without either manure or irrigation, and paid a rent of twenty shillings an acre, become so
exhausted by overcropping in a few years as to yield only three or four returns, and unable
to pay four shillings an acre--indeed, unable to pay any rent at all. The cultivator, by degrees,
ceases to sow the more exhausting and profitable crops, and is at last obliged to have recourse
to manure, or desert his land altogether; but no manure will enable him to get the same quantity
of produce as he got before, while what he gets sells at the same rate in the market. He can,
therefore, no longer pay the same rate of rent to Government and its lessee. He has got a less
quantity of produce, and it has cost him much more to raise it, while it continues to sell
at the same price in the market.

But when the lands of a whole country, or a large extent of country, deteriorate in the same
manner, and all cultivators are obliged to do the same thing, the price of land produce must
rise in the markets, so as to pay the additional costs of supply. All but the poorest and most
distant to which these markets must have recourse for supply, at any particular time, will
pay rent, and pay it at a rate proportioned to their greater fertility or nearer proximity
to the markets. Such Markets must pay for land produce a price sufficient to cover the costs
of producing and bringing it from the poorest and most distant lands, to which they are obliged
at any particular time to have recourse for supply. All land produce of the same quality must,
at the same time and place, sell in the market at the same price; and all that is over and
above the cost of producing and bringing it to market will go to the proprietors of the land,
that is, to the Government and its lessees. The poorest and most distant land, to which any
market may have recourse at any particular time, may pay no rent, because the price is no more
than sufficient to pay the cost of producing and bringing their supply to that market; but
all that is less poor and distant will pay rent, because the price which their produce brings
in that market will be more than sufficient to pay the cost of producing and bringing their
supply to that market.

The increase in the price of land produce which must take place, as the lands become generally
exhausted by overcropping, will, probably, prevent any great falling off in the money rate
of rents and revenues, from the land in our Indian possessions; and with the improvements in
manufactures, and in the facilities of transport, which must tend to reduce the price of other
articles, that money will purchase more of them in the market; and the establishments which
have to be maintained out of these rents and revenues may not become more costly. Government
and its lessees may have the same incomes in money, and the greater price, they and their establishments
are obliged to pay for land produce may be compensated by the lesser price they will have to
pay for other things.

As facilities for irrigation are extended and improved in wells and canals, new elements of
fertility will be supplied to the surface, in the soluble salts contained in their waters.
The well-waters will bring these salts from great depths, and the canal-waters will collect
them as they flow along, or percolate through, the earth; and as they rise, by capillary attraction,
they will convey them to the surface, where they are required for tillage. The atmosphere,
in water, ammonia, and carbonic-acid gas will continue to supply plants with the oxygen, hydrogen,
nitrogen, and carbon which they require from it; and judicious selection and supply of manure
will provide the soil with those elements in which it happens to be deficient. Peace, security,
instruction, and a due encouragement to industry, will, it may be hoped, secure to the people
all that they require from our Government, and to our Government all that it can fairly require
from the people.

The soil of Mahomdee is as fine as that of any part of Oude that I have seen; and the soil
of Oude, generally, is equal to the best that I have seen in any part of India. It is all of
the kinds above described--muteear (argillaceous), doomuteea (light), bhoor (sandy), and oosur
(barren), as far as I have seen. In some parts, the muteear is more productive than in others,
and the same may be said of all the other denominations of soil. In the poorer parts of the
muteear, the stiff clay, devoid of decayed vegetable and animal matter, seems to superabound,
as the sand does in the lightest or poorer portions of the soil, called doomuteea, which runs
into bhoor. The oosur, or soil rendered unproductive by a superabundance of substances not
suitable to the growth of plants, seems to be common to both kinds. In all soils, except the
oosur, fine trees grow, and good crops are produced under good tillage; but in the muteear,
the outlay to produce them is the least. It is an error to suppose that a soil, even of pure
sand, must be absolutely barren. Quartz-sand commonly contains some of the inorganic substances
necessary to plants-- silica, lime, potash, alumina, oxide of iron, magnesia, &c.--and they
are rendered soluble, and fit for the use of plants by atmospheric air and water, impregnated
with carbonic-acid gas, as all water is more or less. The only thing required from the hand
of man, besides water, to render them cultivable, is vegetable or animal substances, to supply
them, as they decay or decompose, with organic acids.

The late Hakeem Mehndee, took the contract of the Mahomdee district, as already stated, in
the year A.D. 1804, when it was in its present bad state, at 3,11,000 rupees a-year; and he
held it till the year 1819, or for sixteen years. He had been employed in the Azimgurh district,
under Boo Allee Hakeem, the contractor; and during the negotiations for the transfer of that
district, with the other territories to the British Government, which took place in 1801; he
lost his place, and returned to Lucknow, where he paid his court to the then Dewan, or Chancellor
of the Exchequer, who offered him the contract of the Mahomdee district, at three lacs and
eleven thousand rupees a-year, on condition of his depositing in the Treasury a security bond
for thirty-two thousand rupees. There had been a liaison between him and a beautiful dancing-girl,
named Peeajoo, who had saved a good deal of money. She advanced the money, and Hakeem Mehndee
deposited the bond, and got the contract. The greater part of the district was then, as now,
a waste; and did not yield more than enough to cover the Government demand, gratuities to courtiers,
and cost of management. The Hakeem remained to support his influence at Court, while his brother,
Hadee Allee Khan, resided at Mahomdee, and managed the district. The Hakeem and his fair friend
were married, and lived happily together till her death, which took place before that of her
husband, while she was on a pilgrimage to Mecca. While she lived, he married no other woman;
but on her death he took to himself another, who survived him; but he had no child by either.
His vast property was left to Monowur-od Dowlah, the only son of his brother, Hadee Allee Khan,
and to his widow and dependents. The district improved rapidly under the care of the two brothers;
and, in a few years, yielded them about seven lacs of rupees a-year. The Government demand
increased with the rent-roll to the extent of four lacs of rupees a-year. This left a large
income for Hakeem Mehndee and his family, who had made the district a garden, and gained the
universal respect and affection of the people.

In the year 1807, Hakeem Mehndee added, to the contract of Mahomdee, that of the adjoining
district of Khyrabad, at five lacs of rupees a- year, making his contract nine lacs. In 1816,
he added the contract for the Bahraetch district, at seven lacs and seventy-five thousand;
but he resigned this in 1819, after having held it for two years, with no great credit to himself.
In 1819, he lost the contract for Mahomdee and Khyrabad, from the jealousy of the prime minister,
Aga Meer. In April 1818, the Governor-General the Marquess of Hastings passed through his district
of Khyrabad, on his way to the Tarae forest, on a sporting excursion, after the Marhatta war.
Hakeem Mehndee attended him during this excursion, and the Governor-General was so much pleased
with his attentions, courteous manners, and sporting propensities, and treated him with so
much consideration and kindness, that the minister took the alarm, and determined to get rid
of so formidable a rival. He in consequence made the most of the charge preferred against him,
of the murder of Amur Sing; and demanded an increase of five lacs of rupees a-year, or fourteen
lacs of rupees a-year, instead of nine. This Hakeem Mehndee would not consent to give; and
Shekh Imam Buksh was, in 1819, sent to supersede him, as a temporary arrangement.

In 1820, Poorun Dhun, and Govurdhun Dass, merchants of Lucknow, took the contract of the two
districts at twelve lacs of rupees a-year, or an increase of three lacs; and from that time,
under a system of rack-renting, these districts have been falling off. Mahomdee is now in a
worse state than Khyrabad, because it has had the bad luck to get a worse set of contractors.
Hakeem Mehndee retired with his family, first to Shajehanpoor, and then to Futtehgurh, on the
Ganges, and resided there, with his family, till June 1830, when he was invited back by Nusseer-do
Deen Hyder, to assume the office of prime minister. He held the office till August 1832, when
he was removed by the intrigues of the Kumboos, Taj-od Deen Hoseyn, and Sobhan Allee Khan,
who persuaded the King that he was trying to get him removed from the throne, by reporting
to the British Government the murder of some females, which had, it is said, actually taken
place in the palace. Hakeem Mehndee was invited from his retirement by Mahomed Allee Shah,
and again appointed minister in 1837; but he died three months after, on the 24th of December,
1837.

During the thirty years which have elapsed since Hakeem Mehndee lost the contract of Mahomdee,
there have been no less than seventeen governors, fifteen of whom have been contractors; and
the district has gradually declined from what it was, when he left it, to what it was when
he took it--that is from a rent-roll of seven lacs of rupees a-year, under which all the people
were happy and prosperous, to one of three, under which all the people are wretched. The manager,
Krishun Sahae, who has been treated as already described, would, in a few years, have made
it what it was when the Hakeem left it, had he been made to feel secure in his tenure of office,
and properly encouraged and supported. He had, in the three months he had charge, invited back
from our bordering districts hundreds of the best classes of landholders and cultivators, who
had been driven off by the rapacity of his predecessor, re-established them in their villages
and set them to work in good spirit, to restore the lands which had lain waste from the time
they deserted them; and induced hundreds to convert to sugar-cane cultivation the lands which
they had destined for humbler crops, in the assurance, of the security which they were to enjoy
under his rule. The one class tells me, they must suspend all labours upon the waste lands
till they can learn the character of his successor; and the other, that they must content themselves
with the humbler crops till they can see whether the richer and more costly ones will be safe
from his grasp, or that of the agents, whom he may employ to manage the district for him. No
man is safe for a moment under such a Government, either in his person, his character, his
office, or his possession; and with such a feeling of insecurity among all classes, it is impossible
for a country to prosper.*

[* Krishun Sahae has been restored, but does not feel secure in his tenure of office.]

I may here mention one among the numerous causes of the decline of the district. The contract
for it was held for a year and half, in A.D. 1847-48, by Ahmed Allee. Feeling insecure in his
tenure of office, he wanted to make as much as possible out of things as they were, and resumed
Guhooa, a small rent-free village, yielding four hundred rupees a-year, held by Bahadur Sing,
the tallookdar of Peepareea, who resides at Pursur. He had recourse to the usual mode of indiscriminate
murder and plunder, to reduce Ahmed Allee to terms. At the same time, he resumed the small
village of Kombee, yielding three hundred rupees a-year, held rent-free by Bhoder Sing, tallookdar
of Magdapoor, who resided in Koombee; and, in consequence, he united his band of marauders
to that of Bahadur Sing; and together they plundered and burnt to the ground some dozen villages,
and laid waste the purgunnah of Peepareea, which had yielded to Government twenty-five thousand
rupees a-year, and contained the sites of one hundred and eight villages, of which, however,
only twenty-five were occupied.

During the greater part of the time that these depredations were going on, the two rebels resided
in our bordering district of Shajehanpoor, whence they directed the whole. Urgent remonstrances
were addressed to the magistrate of that district, but he required judicial proof of their
participation in the crimes, that were committed by their followers, upon the innocent and
unoffending peasantry; and no proof that the contractor could furnish being deemed sufficient,
he was obliged to consent to restore the rent-free villages. The lands they made waste, still
remain so, and pay no revenue to Government.

Saadut Allee Khan (who died in 1814), when sovereign of Oude, was fond of this place, and used
to reside here for many months every year. He made a garden, about a mile to the east of the
town, upon a fine open plain of good soil, and planted an avenue of fine trees all the way.
The trees are now in perfection, but the garden has been neglected; and the bungalow in the
centre, in which he resided, is an entire ruin. He kept a large establishment of men and cattle,
for which sixty thousand rupees a-year were regularly charged in the accounts of the manager
of the district, through his reign and those of Ghazee-od Deen, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, Mahomed
Allee Shah, and Amjud Allee Shah, and the first year of the reign of his present Majesty, Wajid
Allee Shah; though, with the exception of two bullocks and two gardeners, the cattle had all
disappeared, and the servants been all discharged some thirty years before.

In October last, when six guns were required from the great park of artillery at Lucknow, to
be sent out on detached duty with the Gungoor Regiment, an inspection of the draft-bullocks
took place, and it was found, that the Court favourite who had charge of the park had made
away with no less than one thousand seven hundred and thirty of them, and only twenty could
be found to take the guns. He had been charging for the food of these one thousand seven hundred
and thirty for a long series of years. On mentioning this fact to a late minister, he told
me of two facts within his own knowledge, illustrative of these sort of charges. This same
Court favourite, in the reign of Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, in 1835, received charge of sixteen
bullocks, of surpassing beauty, which had been presented to the King, and he was allowed to
draw, from the Treasury, a rupee a- day, for the food of each bullock.

In the reign of Mahomed Allee Shah, his prudent successor, a muster of all the bullocks was
called for, and Ghalib Jung, to whom the muster was intrusted, to spite the favourite, called
for these sixteen bullocks. The favourite had disposed of them, though, he continued to draw
the allowance; and, to supply their place, he sent to the bazaar and seized sixteen of the
bullocks which had that day brought corn to market. They were presented to Ghalib Jung for
muster. He pretended to be very angry, declared that it was disgraceful to keep such poor creatures
on the King's establishment, and still more so to charge a rupee a-day for the food of each,
and ordered them to be sold forthwith by auction. Soon after they had been sold, the poor men
to whom they belonged came up to claim them, but could never get either the bullocks or their
price, nor could the favourite ever be persuaded to refund any portion of the money he had
drawn for the sixteen he had sold.*

[* The favourite, in both these cases, was Anjum-od Dowlah.]

In the early part of the reign of Ghazee-od Deen Hyder, a fine dog from the Himmalaya Hills
was presented to him, and made over to the charge of one of the favourites, who drew a rupee
a-day for his food. Soon after his Majesty became ill and very irritable, and one day complained
much of this dog's barking. He was told that the only way to silence a dog of this description
was to give him a seer of conserve of roses to eat every day, and a bottle of rose-water to
drink. His Majesty ordered them to be given forthwith, and his repose was never after disturbed
by the dog's barking. A rupee a-day continued to be drawn for these things for the dog for
the rest of the long reign of Ghazee-od Deen Hyder, and through that of his successor, Nuseer-od
Deen, which lasted for ten years, and ended in 1837, though the animal had died soon after
the order for these things was given, or in 1816, and he believed it continued to be drawn
up to the present day.

The cantonment at Mahomdee stands between this garden of Saadut Allee's and the town, and this
is the best site for any civil or military establishments that may be required at Mahomdee.
The Nazims usually reside in the fort in the town.

February 2, 1850.--Halted at Mahomdee. The spring crops around the town are very fine, and
the place is considered to be very healthy. There is, however, some peculiarity in the soil,
opposed to the growth of the poppy. The cultivators tell me that they have often tried it;
that it is stunted in growth, whatever care be taken of it, and yields but little juice, and
that of bad quality, though it attains perfection in the Shahabad and other districts around.
The doomuteea soil is here esteemed better than the muteear, though it requires more labour
in the tillage. It is said that mote and mash, two pulses, do not thrive in the muteear soil
so well as in the doomuteea.

February 3, 1850.--Poknapoor, eight miles. We crossed the Goomtee about midway, over a bridge
of boats that had been prepared for us. The boats came up the river thus far for timber, and
were detained for the occasion. The stream is here narrow, and said to flow from a basin (the
phoola talao) in the Tarae forest, some fifty miles to the north, at Madhoo Tanda. There is
some tillage on the verge of the stream on the other side; but from the river to our tents,
four miles, there is none. The country is level and well studded with groves and fine single
trees, bur, peepul, mhowa, mango, &c., but covered with rank grass.

Near the river is a belt of the sakhoo and other forest trees, with underwood, in which tigers
lodge and prey upon the deer, which cover the grass plain, and frequently upon the bullocks,
which are grazed upon it in great numbers. Several bullocks have been killed and eaten by them
within the last few days; and an old fakeer, who has for some months taken up his lodging on
this side the river under a peepul- tree, in a straw hut just big enough to hold him, told
us that he frequently saw them come down to drink in the stream near his lodging. We saw a
great many deer in passing, but no tigers. The soil near the river is sandy, and the ground
uneven, but still cultivable; and on this side of the sandy belt it is all level and of the
best kind of doomuteea. Our tents are in a fine grove of mango-trees, in the midst of a waste,
but level and extensive, plain of this soil, not a rood of which is unfit for the plough or
incapable of yielding crops of the finest quality. It is capable of being made, in two or three
years, a beautiful garden.

The single trees, which are scattered all over it, have been shorn of their leaves and small
branches by the cowherds for their cattle, but they would all soon clothe themselves again
under protection. The groves are sufficiently numerous to furnish sites for the villages and
hamlets required. All the large sakhoo-trees have been cut down and taken away on the ground
we have come over, which is too near the river for them to be permitted to attain full size.
Not an acre or a foot of the land is oosur, or unfit for tillage. Poknapoor is in the estate
of Etowa, which forms part of the pergunnah of Peepareea, to which Bahadur Sing, the person
above described, lays claim. He holds a few villages round his residence at Pursur; but the
pergunnah is under the management of a Government officer, under the Amil of Mahomdee. The
Rajah, Syud Ashruf Allee Khan, of Mahomdee, claims a kind of suzerainty over all the district,
and over this pergunnah of Peepareea among the rest. From all the villages tilled and peopled
he is permitted to levy an income for himself at the rate of two rupees a-village. This the
people pay with some reluctance, though they recognise his right.

The zumeendars of Poknapoor are Kunojee Brahmins, who tell me that they can do almost everything
in husbandry save holding their own ploughs: they can drive their own harrows and carts, reap
their own crops, and winnow and tread out their own corn; but if they once condescend to hold
their own ploughs they sink in grade, and have to pay twice as much as they now pay for wives
for their sons from the same families, and take half of what they now take for their daughters
from the same families, into which they now marry them. They have, they say, been settled in
these pergunnahs, north-east of the Goomtee River, for fifty-two generations as farmers and
cultivators; and their relatives, who still remain at Aslamabad, a village one koss south-east
of Mahomdee, which was the first abode of the tribe in Oude, have been settled there for no
less than eighty- four generations. They form village communities, dividing the lands among
the several members, and paying over and above the Government demand a liberal allowance to
the head of the village and of the family settled in it, to maintain his respectability and
to cover the risk and cost of management, either in kind, in money, or in an extra share of
the land.

The lands of Poknapoor are all divided into two equal shares, one held by Dewan and the other
by Ramnath, who were both among the people with whom I conversed. Teekaram, who has a share
in Dewan's half, mentioned that about thirteen years ago the Amil, Khwaja Mahmood, wanted to
increase the rate of the Government demand on the village from the four hundred, which they
had long paid, to four hundred and fifty; that they refused to pay, and Hindoo Sing, the Rajpoot
tallookdar of Rehreea, one koss east of Poknapoor, offered to take the lease at four hundred
and fifty, and got it. They refused to pay, and he, at the head of his gang of armed followers,
attacked, plundered, and burnt down the village, and killed his, Teekaram's, brother Girdharee,
with his two sons, and inflicted three severe cuts of a sabre on the right arm of his wife,
who is now a widow among them. Hindoo Sing's object was to make this village a permanent addition
to his estate; but, to his surprise, the Durbar took serious notice of the outrage, and he
fled into the Shajehanpoor district, where he was seized by the magistrate, Mr. Buller, and
made over to the Oude authorities for trial. He purchased his escape from them in the usual
way; but soon after offered to surrender to the collector, Aboo Torab Khan, on condition of
pardon for all past offences.

The collector begged the Brahmins to consent to pardon him for the murders, on condition of
getting from Hindoo Sing some fifty beeghas of land, out of his share in Rehreea. They said
they would not consent to take five times the quantity of the land among such a turbulent set;
but should be glad to get a smaller quantity, rent- free, in their own village, for the widow
of Girdharee. The collector gave them twenty-five beeghas, or ten acres, in Poknapoor; and
this land Teekaram still holds, and out of the produce supports the poor widow. A razenamah,
or pardon, was given by the family, and Hindoo Sing has ever since lived in peace upon his
estate, The lease of the village was restored to the Brahmin family, at the reduced rate of
two hundred and fifty, but soon after raised to four hundred, and again reduced to two hundred
and fifty, after the devastation of Bahadur Sing and Bhoder Sing.

These industrious and unoffending Brahmins say that since these Rajpoot landholders came among
them, many generations ago, there has never been any peace in the district, except during the
time that Hakeem Mehndee held the contract, when the whole plain that now lies waste became
a beautiful chummun (parterre); that since his removal, as before his appointment, all has
been confusion; that the Rajpoot landholders are always quarrelling either among themselves
or with the local Government authorities; and, whatever be the nature or the cause of quarrel,
they always plunder and murder, indiscriminately, the unoffending communities of the villages
around, in order to reduce these authorities to their terms; that when these Rajpoot landholders
leave them in peace, the contractors seize the opportunity to increase the Government demand,
and bring among them the King's troops, who plunder them just as much as the rebel landholders,
though they do not often murder them in the same reckless manner. They told me that the hundreds
of their relatives who had gone off during the disorders and taken lands, or found employment
in our bordering districts, would be glad to return to their own lands, groves, and trees,
in Oude, if they saw the slightest chance of protection, and the country would soon become
again the beautiful parterre which Hakeem Mehndee left it thirty years ago, instead of the
wilderness in which they were now so wretched; that they ventured to cultivate small patches
here and there, not far from each other, but were obliged to raise small platforms, upon high
poles, in every field, and sit upon them all night, calling out to each other, in a loud voice,
to keep up their spirits, and frighten off the deer which swarmed upon the grass plain, and
would destroy the whole of the crops in one night, if left unprotected; that they were obliged
to collect large piles of wood around each platform, and keep them burning all night, to prevent
the tigers from carrying off the men who sat upon them; that their lives were wretched amidst
this continual dread of man and beast, but the soil and climate were good, and the trees and
groves planted by their forefathers were still standing and dear to them; and they hoped, now
that the Resident had come among them, to receive, at no distant day, the protection they required.
This alone is required to render this the most beautiful portion of Oude, and Oude the most
beautiful portion of India.

February 4, 1850.--Gokurnath, thirteen miles, north-east, over a level plain of the same fine
muteear soil, here and there running into doomuteea and bhoor, but in no case into oosur. The
first two miles over the grass plain, and the next four through a belt of forest trees, with
rank grass and underwood, abounding in game of all kinds, and infested by tigers. Bullocks
are often taken by them, but men seldom. The sal (alias sakhoo) trees are here stunted, gnarled,
and ugly, while in the Tarae forest they are straight, lofty, and beautiful. The reason is,
that beyond the forest their leaves are stripped off and sold for plates. They are carried
to distant towns, and stored up for long periods, to form breakfast and dinner plates, and
the people in the country use hardly anything else. Plates are formed of them by sewing them
together, when required; and they become as pliable as leather, even after being kept for a
year or more, by having a little water sprinkled over them. They are long, wide, and tough,
and well suited to the purpose. All kinds of food are put upon them, and served up to the family
and guests. The cattle do not eat them, as they do leaves of the peepul, bur, neem, &c. The
sakhoo, when not preserved, is cut down, when young, for beams, rafters, &c., required in building.
In the Tarae forest, the proprietors of the lands on which they stand preserve them till they
attain maturity, for sale to the people of the plains; and they are taken down the Ghagra and
other rivers that flow through the forest to the Ganges, and vast numbers are sold in the Calcutta
market. The fine tall sakhoos in the Tarae forest are called "sayer"; the knotted, stunted,
and crooked shakoos, beyond the forest, are called "khohurs." There are but few teak (or sagwun)
trees in this part of the Tarae forest. The country is everywhere studded with the same fine
groves and single trees, and requires only tillage to become a garden. From the belt of jungle
to our camp at Gokurnath, seven miles, the road runs over an open grass plain, with here and
there a field of corn. The sites of villages are numerous, but few of them are occupied at
present. All are said to have been in a flourishing state, and filled by a happy peasantry,
when Hakeem Mehndee lost the government. Since that time these villages and hamlets have diminished
by degrees, in proportion as the rapacity of the contractors and the turbulence of the Rajpoot
landholders have increased.

The first village we passed through, after emerging from the belt of jungle, was Pureylee,
which is held and occupied by a large family of cultivating proprietors of the Koormee caste.
Up to the year 1847, it had for many years been in a good condition, and paid a revenue of
two thousand rupees a-year to Government. In that year Ahmud Allee, the collector, demanded
a thousand more. They could not pay this, and he sold all their bullocks and other stock to
make up the demand; the lands became waste as usual; and Lonee Sing, of Mitholee, offered the
next contractor one thousand rupees a-year for the lease, and got it. The village has now been
permanently absorbed in his estate, in the usual way; and, as the Koormees are a peaceful body,
they have quietly acquiesced in the arrangement, and get all the aid they require from their
new landlord. Before this time they had held their lands, as proprietors, directly under Government.
From allodial* proprietors they are become feudal tenants under a powerful Rajpoot chief.

Lonee Sing, who visited me yesterday afternoon with a respectable train, has, in this and other
ways less creditable, increased his estate of Mitholee from a rent-roll of forty to one of
one hundred and fifty thousand rupees a-year, out of which he pays fifty thousand to Government,
and he is considered one of its best subjects. He is, as above stated, of the Ahbun Rajpoot
clan, and a shrewd and energetic man. The estate was divided into six shares. It had formed
one under Rajah Davey Sing, whose only brother, Bhujun Sing, lived united with him, and took
what he chose to give him for his own subsistence and that of his family. Davey Sing died without
issue, leaving the whole estate to his brother, Bhujun Sing, who had two sons, Dul Sing and
Maun Sing, among whom he divided the estate.* Dul Sing had six sons, but Maun Sing had none.
He, however, adopted Bhowanee Sing, to whom he left his portion of the estate. Dul Sing's share
became subdivided among his six sons; but Khunjun Sing, the son of his eldest son, when he
became head of the family, got together a large force, with some guns, and made use of it in
the usual way by seizing upon the lands of his weaker neighbours. He attacked his nephew, Bhowanee
Sing, and took all his lands; and got, on one pretence or another, the greater part of those
of his other relatives.

[* Mitholee contains the sites of one thousand four hundred and eighty-six villages, only one-third
of which are now occupied.]

He died without issue, leaving his possessions and military force to Lonee Sing, his brother,
who continued to pursue the same course. In 1847 he, with one thousand armed men and five guns,
attacked his cousin, Monnoo Sing, of Mohlee, the head of the family of the fourth son of Dul
Sing, killed four and wounded two persons; and, in collusion with the local governor, seized
upon all his estate. Redress was sought for in vain; and as I was passing near, Monnoo Sing
and his brother Chotee Sing came to me at Mahomdee to complain. Monnoo Sing remained behind
sick at Mahomdee; but Chotee Sing followed me on. He rode on horseback behind my elephant,
and I made him give me the history of his family as I went along, and told him to prepare for
me a genealogical table, and an account of the mode in which Lonee Sing had usurped the different
estates of the other members of the family. This he gave to me on the road between Poknapoor
and Gokurnath by one of his belted attendants, who, after handing it up to me on the elephant,
ran along under the nose of Rajah Bukhtawur Sing's fine chestnut horse without saying a word.

I asked the Rajah whether he knew Lonee Sing? "Yes," said he; "everybody knows him: he is one
of the ablest, best, and most substantial men in Oude; and he keeps his estate in excellent
order, and is respected by all people."--"Except his own relations," said the belted attendant;
"these he robs of all they have, and nobody interposes to protect them, because he has become
wealthy, and they have become poor!" "My good fellow," said the Rajah, "he has only taken what
they knew not how to hold, and with the sanction of the King's servants."--"Yes," replied the
man, "he has got the sanction of the King's servants, no doubt, and any one who can pay for
it may get that now-a-days to rob others of the King's subjects. Has not Lonee Sing robbed
all his cousins of their estates, and added them to his own, and thereby got the means of bribing
the King's servants to let him do what he likes?" "What," said the Rajah, with some asperity,
"should you, a mere soldier, know about State affairs? Do you suppose that all the members
of any family can be equal? Must there not be a head to all families to keep the rest in order?
Nothing goes on well in families or governments where all are equal, and there is no head to
guide; and the head must have the means to guide the rest."--"True," said the belted attendant,
"all can't be equal in the rule of States; but in questions of private right, between individuals
and subjects, the case is different; and the ruler should give to every one his due, and prevent
the strong from robbing the weak. I have five fingers in my hand: they serve me, and I treat
them all alike. I do not let one destroy or molest the other." "I tell you," said the Rajah,
with increasing asperity, "that there must be heads of families as well as heads of States,
or all would be confusion; and Lonee Sing is right in all that he has done. Don't you see what
a state his district is in, now that he has taken the management of the whole upon himself?
I dare say all the waste that we see around us has arisen from the want of such heads of families."--"You
know," said the man, "that this waste has been caused by the oppression of the King's officers,
and their disorderly and useless troops, and the strong striving to deprive the weak of their
rights."

"You know nothing about these matters," said the Rajah, still more angrily. "The wise and strong
are everywhere striving to subdue the weak and ignorant, in order that they may manage what
they hold better than they can. Don't you see how the British Government are going on, taking
country after country year after year, in order to manage them better than they were managed
under others? and don't you see how these countries thrive under their strong and just Government?
Do you think that God would permit them to go on as they do unless he thought that it was for
the good of the people who come under their rule?" Turning to me, the Rajah continued: "When
I was one day riding over the country with Colonel Low, the then Resident, as I now ride with
you, sir, he said, with a sigh, 'In this country of Oude what darkness prevails! No one seems
to respect the right of another; and every one appears to be grasping at the possessions of
his neighbour, without any fear of God or the King'--'True, sir,' said I; 'but do you not see
that it is the necessary order of things, and must be ordained by Providence? Is not your Government
going on taking country after country, and benefiting all it takes? And will not Providence
prosper their undertakings as long as they do so? The moment they come to a stand, all will
be confusion. Sovereigns cannot stand still, sir; the moment their bellies are full (their
ambition ceases), they and the countries they govern retrograde. No sovereign in India, sir,
that has any regard for himself or his country, can with safety sit down and say that his belly
is full (that he has no further ambition of conquest): he must go on to the last.'"*

[* The Rajah's reasoning was drawn from the practice in Oude, of seizing upon the possessions
of weaker neighbours, by means of gangs of robbers. The man who does this, becomes the slave
of his gangs, as the imperial robber, who seizes upon smaller states by means of his victorious
armies, becomes their slave, and, ultimately, their victim, The history of India is nothing
more than the biography of such men, and the Rajah has read no other.]

The poor belted attendant of Chotee Sing was confounded with the logic and eloquence of the
old Rajah, and said nothing more; and Chotee Sing himself kept quietly behind on his horse,
with his ears well wrapped up in warm cloth, as the morning was very cold, and he was not well.
He looked very grave, and evidently thought the Rajah had outlived his understanding. But the
fact is that the Rajah has, by his influence at Court, taken all the lands held by his two
elder nephews, Rughbur Sing and Ramadeen, and made them over to their youngest brother, Maun
Sing, whom he has adopted, made his heir, and the head of the family. He has, in consequence,
for the present a strong fellow-feeling with Lonee Sing; and, in all this oration at least,
"his wishes were father to his thoughts."

The sharpest retort that I remember ever having had myself was given to me by a sturdy and
honest old landholder of the middle class, whom I had known for a quarter of a century on the
bank of the Nerbudda, in 1843. During the insurrection in the Saugor and Nerbudda territories,
which commenced in 1842, I was sent down by the Governor-General Lord Ellenborough to ascertain
if possible the causes which had led to it. I conversed freely with the landholders, and people
of all classes in the valley, who had been plundered by the landed aristocracy of the jungles
on the borders, and had one afternoon some fifty in my tent seated on the carpet. After a good
deal of talk about the depredations of the jungle barons upon the people of the cultivated
plains, and remonstrance at the want of support on their part to the Government officers, I
said to Umrao Sing, one of the most sturdy and honest among them, "Why did you withhold from
the local officers the information which you must have had of the movements and positions of
the rebels and their followers, who were laying the country waste? In no part of India have
the farmers and cultivators been more favoured in light assessments and protection to life
and property; but there are some men who never can be satisfied; give them what you will, they
will always be craving after more."--"True, sir," said Umrao Sing, looking me steadily in the
face, and with the greatest possible gravity, "there are some people who never can be satisfied,
give them what you will. Give them the whole of Hindoostan, and they will go off to Kabul to
take more!"

There was a pause, during which all looked very grave, for they thought that the old man had
exceeded the bounds of the privilege he had long enjoyed of expressing his thoughts freely
to European gentlemen; and Umrao Sing continued: "The fact is, sir, that after you had, by
good government, made us all happy and prosperous, and proud to display the wealth we had acquired
on our persons, and in our houses and villages, you withdrew all your troops from among us,
and left us a prey to the wild barons of the hills and jungles on our borders, whose families
had risen to wealth, distinction, and large landed possessions under former misrule and disorder,
and who are always longing for the return of such disorders, that they may have some chance
of recovering the consequence and influence which they have lost under a settled and strong
Government: they saw that your troops had been taken off for distant conquests, and heard of
nothing but defeats and disasters, and readily persuaded themselves that your rule was at an
end; for what could men, born and bred in the jungles, know of your resources to retrieve such
disasters?

"After the Mahratta war, in 1817, you prohibited the people of your newly-acquired districts
from carrying arms, not dreaming that the only persons who would obey or regard your order
were the peaceful landholders and peasantry of the plains, who were satisfied with your Government,
and anxious for its duration, but exposed to the envy and hatred of the Gond and Lodhee chiefs,
who occupied the hills and jungles on their borders.

"When they came down upon us, you had no means left to protect us; and having no longer any
arms or any experience of the use of them, after a quarter of a century of peace, we were unable
to defend our villages, our houses, or our families; if we attempted to defend them, we and
our families were killed; if we did not, we were robbed and threatened with death, if we gave
you information to their prejudice. We saw that they could carry their threats into execution,
for your local officers had not the means to protect us from their vengeance, and we suffered
in silence; but you must not infer from this that we were tired of your rule, or pleased with
their depredations; all here can testify that we longed for the return of your strength and
their downfal. It is true, however," added he, "that the new European officers placed over
us did not treat us with the same courtesy and consideration as the old ones, or seem to entertain
the same kindly feeling towards us; and our communion with them was less free and cordial."

All approved of my old friend's speech, and declared that he had given expression to the thoughts
and feelings of all present, and of all the people of the plains, who lived happily under our
rule, and prayed earnestly for its duration. The portion of the estate of Mitholee, held by
Lonee Sing, now contains the sites of six hundred and four villages, about one-half of which
are occupied; four hundred and eighty-four of these lie in the Mahomdee district, and one hundred
and twenty in that of Khyrabad. The number and names of the villages are still kept up in the
accounts.

February 5, 1850.--Kurrunpoor Mirtaha, ten miles over a plain of fine muteear soil, scantily
cultivated, but bearing excellent spring crops where it is so. Not far from our last camp at
Gokurnath, we entered a belt of jungle three miles wide, consisting chiefly of stunted, knotty,
and crooked sakhoo trees, with underwood and rank chopper grass. This belt of jungle is the
same we passed through, as above described, between Poknapoor and Gokurnath. It runs from the
great forest to the north, a long way down south-east, into the Khyrabad district. From this
belt to our present ground, six miles, the road passes over a fine plain, nine-tenths of which
is covered with this grass, but studded with mango-groves and fine single trees. The forest
runs along to the north of our road--which lay east--from one to three miles distant, and looked
very like a continued mango- grove. The level plain of rich soil extends up through the forest
to the foot of the hills, and is all the way capable of the finest cultivation. Here and there
the soil runs into light doomuteea; and in some few parts even into bhoor, in proportion as
the sand abounds; but generally the soil is the fine muteear, and very fertile. The whole plain
is said to have been in cultivation thirty years ago, when Hakeem Mehndee held the contract;
but the tillage has been falling off ever since, under the bad or oppressive management of
successive contractors.

The estate through which we have been passing is called Bharwara, and contains the sites of
nine hundred and eighty-nine villages, about one-tenth of which are now occupied. The landholders
are all of the Ahbun Rajpoot tribe; but a great part of them have become Musulmans. They live
together, however, though of different creeds, in tolerable harmony; and eat together on occasions
of ceremony, though not from the same dishes. No member of the tribe ever forfeited his inheritance
by changing his creed. Nor did any one of them, I believe, ever change his creed, except to
retain his inheritance, liberty, or life, threatened by despotic and unscrupulous rulers. They
dine on the same floor, but there is a line marked off to separate those of the party who are
Hindoos from those who are Musulmans. The Musulmans have Mahommedan names, and the Hindoos
Hindoo names; but both still go by the common patronymic name of Ahbuns. The Musulmans marry
into Musulman families, and the Hindoos into Hindoo families of the highest castes, Chouhans,
Rathores, Rykwars, Janwars, &c. Of course all the children are of the same religion and caste
as their parents. They tell me that the conversion of their ancestors was effected by force,
under a prince or chief called "Kala Pahar." This must have been Mahommed Firmally, alias Kala
Pahar--to whom his uncle Bheilole, King of Delhi, left the district of Bahraetch as a separate
inheritance a short time before his death, which took place A.D. 1488. This conversion seems
to have had the effect of doing away with the murder of female infants in the Ahbun families
who are still Hindoos; for they could not get the Musulman portion of the tribe to associate
with them if they continued it.

The estate of Bharwara is divided into four parts, Hydrabad, Hurunpoor, Aleegunge, and Sekunderabad.
Each division is subdivided into parts, each held by a separate branch of the family; and the
subdivision of these parts is still going on, as the heads of the several branches of the family
die, and leave more than one son. The present head of the Ahbun family is Mahommed Hussan Khan,
a Musulman, who resides in his fort in the village of Julalpoor, near the road over which we
passed. The small fort is concealed within, and protected by a nice bamboo-fence that grows
round it. He holds twelve villages rent free, as nankar, and pays revenue for all the rest
that compose his share of the great estate. The heads of families who hold the other shares
enjoy in the same manner one or more villages rent free, as nankar. These are all well cultivated,
and contain a great many cultivators of the best classes, such as Koormees, Lodhies, and Kachies.

We passed through one of them, Kamole, and I had a good deal of talk with the people, who were
engaged in pressing out the juice of sugar- cane. They told me that the juice was excellent,
and that the syrup made from it was carried to the district of Shajehanpoor, in the British
territory, to be made into sugar. Mahommed Hussan Khan came up, as I was talking with the people,
and joined in the conversation. All seemed to be delighted with the opportunity of entering
so freely into conversation with a British Resident who understood farming, and seemed to take
so much interest in their pursuits. I congratulated the people on being able to keep so many
of their houses well covered with grass-choppers; but they told me, "that it was with infinite
difficulty they could keep them, or anything else they had, from the grasp of the local authorities
and the troops and camp-followers who attended them, and desolated the country like a flock
of locusts; that they are not only plundered but taxed by them--first, the sipahees take their
choppers, beams, and rafters off their houses-- then the people in charge of artillery bullocks
and other cattle take all their stores of bhoosa, straw, &c., and threaten to turn the cattle
loose on their fields, if not paid a gratuity--the people who have to collect fuel for the
camp (bildars) take all their stores of wood, and doors and windows also, if not paid for their
redemption-- then the people in charge of elephants and camels threaten to denude of their
leaves and small branches all the peepul, burgut, and other trees most sacred and dear to them,
near their homes, unless paid for their forbearance; and--though last, not least--men, women,
and children are seized, not only to carry the plunder and other burthens gratis for sipahees
and servants of all kinds and grades, and camp- followers, but to be robbed of their clothes,
and made to pay ransoms to get back, while all the plough-bullocks are put in requisition to
draw the guns which the King's bullocks are unable to draw themselves. In short, that the approach
of King's servants is dreaded as one of the greatest calamities that can befal them."

I should here mention, that all the Telinga regiments, fourteen in number, are allowed tents
and hackeries to carry them. The way in which the bullocks of such carts are provided with
fodder has been already mentioned; but no tents or conveyance of any kind are allowed for the
Nujeeb corps, thirty-two in number. Whenever they move (and they are almost always moving),
they seize whatever conveyance and shelter they require from the people of the country around.
Each battalion, even in its ordinary incomplete state, requires four hundred or five hundred
porters, besides carts, bullocks, horses, ponies, &c. Men, women, and children, of all classes,
are seized, and made to carry the baggage, arms, accoutrements, and cages of pet birds, belonging
to the officers and sipahees of these corps. They are stripped of their clothes, confined,
and starved from the time they are seized; and as it is difficult to catch people to relieve
them along the road, they are commonly taken on two or three stages. If they run away, they
forfeit all their clothes which remain in the hands of the sipahees; and a great many die along
the road of fatigue, hunger, and exposure to the sun. Numerous cruel instances of this have
been urged by me on the notice of the King, but without any good effect. The line of march
of one of these corps is like the road to the temple of Juggurnaut! When the corps is about
to move, detachments are sent out to seize conveyance of all kinds; and for one cart required
and taken, fifty are seized, and released for a donation in proportion to their value, the
respectability of the proprietors, and the necessity for their employment at home at the time.
The sums thus extorted by detachments they share with their officers, or they would never be
again sent on such lucrative service.

It appears that in this part of Oude the people have not for many years suffered so much from
the depredations of the refractory landholders as in other parts; and that the desolate state
of the district arises chiefly from the other three great evils that afflict Oude--the rack-renting
of the contractors; the divisions they create and foster among landholders; and the depredations
of the troops and camp-followers who attend them. But the estate has become much subdivided,
and the shareholders from this cause, and the oppression of the contractors, have become poor
and weak; and the neighbouring landholders of the Janwar and other Rajpoot tribes have taken
advantage of their weakness to seize upon a great many of their best villages. Out of Kurumpoor,
within the last nine years, Anorud Sing, of Oel, a Janwar Rajpoot, in collusion with local
authorities, has taken twelve; and Umrao Sing, of Mahewa, of the same tribe, has taken eighteen,
making twenty villages from the Kurumpoor division. These landholders reside in the Khyrabad
district, which adjoins that of Mahomdee, near our present camp.

The people everywhere praise the climate--they appear robust and energetic, and no sickness
prevails, though many of the villages are very near the forest. The land on which the forest
stands contains, in the ruins of well-built towns and fortresses, unquestionable signs of having
once been well cultivated and thickly peopled: and it would soon become so again under good
government. There is nothing in the soil to produce sickness; and, I believe, the same soil
prevails up through the forest to the hills. Sickness would, no doubt, prevail for some years,
till the underwood and all the putrid leaves should be removed. The water that stagnates over
them, and percolates through the soil into the wells, from which the people drink, and the
exhalations which arise from them and taint the air, confined by the dense mass of forest trees,
underwood, and high grass, are, I believe, the chief cause of the diseases which prevail in
this belt of jungle.

It is however remarkable, that there are two unhealthy seasons in the year in this forest--one
at the latter end of the rains in August, September, and October, and the other before the
rains begin to fall in the latter part of April, the whole of May, and part of June. The diseases
in the latter are, I believe, more commonly fatal than they are in the former; and are considered
by the people to arise solely from the poisonous quality of the water, which is often found
in wells to be covered with a thin crust of petrolium. Diseases of the same character prevail
at the same two seasons in the jungles, above the sources of the Nerbudda and Sohun rivers,
and are ascribed by the people to the same causes--those which take place after the rains,
to bad air; and those which take place immediately before the rains, after the cold and dry
seasons, to bad water. The same petrolium, or liquid bitumen, is found floating on the spring
waters in the hot season, when the most fatal diseases break out in the jungles, about the
sources of the Nerbudda and Sohun, as in the Oude Tarae; and, in both places, the natives appear
to me to be right in attributing them to the water; but whether the poisonous quality of the
water be imparted to it by bitumen from below, or by the putrid leaves of the forest trees
from above, is uncertain; the people drink from the bituminous spring waters at this season,
as well as from stagnant pools in the beds of small rivers, which have ceased to flow during
part of the Cold, and the whole of the hot, season. These pools become filled with the leaves
of the forest trees which hang over them.

The bitumen, in all the jungles to which I refer, arises, I believe, from the coal measures,
pressed down by the overlying masses of sandstone strata, common to both the Himmalaya chain
of mountains over the Tarae forest, and the Vendeya and Sathpoor ranges of hills at the sources
of the Nerbudda and Sohun rivers. It is, however, possible that the water of these stagnant
pools, tainted by the putrid leaves, may impart its poison through the medium of the air in
exhalations; and I have known European officers, who were never conscious of having drunk either
of the waters above described, take the fever (owl) in the month of May in the Tarae, and in
a few hours become raving mad. These tainted waters may possibly act in both ways--directly,
and through the medium of the air.

While on the subject of the causes or sources of disease, I may mention two which do not appear
to me to have been sufficiently considered and provided against in India. First, when a new
cantonment is formed and occupied in haste, during or after a campaign, terraces are formed
of the new earth dug up on the spot to elevate the dwellings of officers and soldiers from
the ground, which may possibly become flooded in the rains; and over the piles of fresh earth
officers commonly form wooden floors for their rooms to secure them from the damp, new earth.
Between this earth and the wooden floor a small space of a foot or two is commonly left. The
new earth, thus thrown up from places that may not have been dug or ploughed for ages, absorbs
rapidly the oxygen from the air above, and gives out carbonic acid, nitrogen and hydrogen gases,
which render the air above unfit for men to breathe. This noxious air accumulates in the space
below the wooden floor, and, passing through the crevices, is breathed by the officers and
soldiers as they sleep.

Between the two campaigns against Nepal in 1814 and 1815, the brigade in which my regiment
served formed such a cantonment at Nathpoor, on the right bank of the river Coosee. The land
which these cantonments occupied had been covered with a fine sward on which cattle grazed
for ages, and was exceedingly rich in decayed vegetable and animal matter. The place had been
long remarked for its salubrity by the indigo-planters and merchants of all kinds who resided
there; and on the ground which my regiment occupied there was a fine pucka-house, which the
officer commanding the brigade and some of his staff occupied. In the rains the whole plain,
being very flat, was often covered with water, and thousands of cattle grazed upon it during
the cold and hot seasons. The officers all built small bungalows for themselves on the plan
above described; and the medical officers all thought that they had, in doing so, taken all
possible precautions. The men were provided with huts, as much as possible on the same plan.
These dwellings were all ready before the rains set in, and officers and soldiers were in the
finest state of health and spirits.

Of the medical officers of the brigade, the only one, I believe, who escaped the fever was
Adam Napier, who, with his wife and children, occupied apartments in the brigadier's large
pucka-house. Not a person who resided in that house was attacked by the fever. There was another
pucka-house a little way from the cantonments, close to the bank of the river, occupied by
an indigo-planter, a Mr. Ross. No one in that house suffered. The fever was confined to those
who occupied the houses and huts which I have described. All the brigade suffered much, but
my regiment, then the first battalion of the 12th Regiment, and now the 12th Regiment, suffered
most; and it was stationed on the soil which had remained longest unturned and untilled on
what had been considered a park round the pucka-house, in which the brigadier resided. I believe
that I am right in attributing this sickness exclusively to the circumstances which I have
mentioned; and I am afraid that, during the thirty-five years that have since elapsed, similar
circumstances have continued to produce similar results. I am myself persuaded, that had the
sward remained unbroken, and the houses and huts been raised upon it, over wooden platforms
placed upon it, to secure officers and men from the damp ground, there would have been little
or no sickness in that brigade.

The second of the two causes or sources of disease, to which I refer, is the insufficient room
which is allowed for the accommodation of our European troops in India. Within the room assigned
for the non- commissioned officers and soldiers, they soon exhaust the atmosphere around of
its oxygen or vital air, while they expire or exhale carbonic acid, nitrogen and hydrogen gases,
which render it altogether unfit to sustain animal life; and death or disease must soon overtake
those who inhale or inspire it.

I may illustrate this by a fact within my own observation. In 1817, a flank battalion of six
hundred European soldiers was formed at Allahabad, where I then was with my regiment to escort
the Governor- General the Marquess of Hastings. With these six hundred soldiers there were
thirty-two European officers. The soldiers and non- commissioned officers were put into the
barracks in the fort, where they had not sufficient room. The commissioned officers resided
in bungalows in the cantonments, or in tents on the open plain. The men were effectually prevented
from exposing themselves to the sun, and from indulging in any kind of intemperance, and every
possible care was taken of them. The commissioned officers lived as they liked, denied themselves
no indulgence, and were driving about all day, and every day, in sun and rain, to visit each
other and their friends. A fever, similar to that above described, broke out among the soldiers
and non-commissioned officers in the fort, and great numbers died. Of the six hundred, only
sixteen escaped the fever. When too late, they were removed from the fort into tents on the
plain. From that day the deaths diminished, and the sick began to recover. Of the thirty-two
commissioned officers, only one, I think, was ever sick at all, and his sickness was of a kind
altogether different; and, it is impossible to resist the conclusion, that the non-commissioned
officers and soldiers got their disease from want of sufficient room, and, consequently, of
sufficient pure air to breathe. Subsequent experience has, I believe, tended to confirm the
conclusion; and, I may safely say, that more European soldiers have died from a disregard of
it, than from all the wars that we have had within the thirty-three years that have since elapsed.
The cause is still in operation, and continues to produce the same fatal results, and will
continue to do so till we change the system of accommodating our European troops in India.

The buildings in which they are lodged should all have thatched or tiled roofs, through which
the hot and impure air, which has been already breathed, may pass, and be replaced within by
the pure air of the atmosphere around, instead of roofs of pucka-masonry which confine this
air to be breathed over again by the people within; and double or quadruple the space now allowed
to each man should be given. At the cost now incurred in providing them with this insufficient
room, under roofs of pucka-masonry, they could be provided with four times the space, under
roofs of thatch and tiles, which would be so much more safe and suitable.

The state of the Bharwara district may be illustrated by that of one of its four divisions
or mahals, Alleegunge. In the last year of Hakeem Mehudee's role (1818), this division was
assessed at one hundred and thirty-eight thousand rupees, with the full consent of the people,
who were all thriving and happy. The assessment was, indeed, made by the heads of the principal
Ahbun families of the district, with Mahommed Hussan Khan as chief assessor. One hundred and
thirty-two thousand were collected, and six thousand were remitted in consequence of a partial
failure of the crops. Last year, by force and violence, the landholders of this division were
made to agree to an assessment upon the lands in tillage of ten thousand and five hundred rupees,
of which not six thousand can be collected. The other three divisions are in the same state.
Not one-tenth of the land is in tillage, nor are one-tenth of the villages peopled. The soil
is really the finest that I have seen in India; and I have seen no part of India in which so
small a portion of the surface is unfit for tillage. The moisture rises to the surface just
as it is required; and a tolerable crop is got by a poor man who cannot afford to keep a plough,
and merely burns down the grass and digs the surface with his spade, or pickaxe, before he
sows the seed. Generally, however, the tillage, in the portion cultivated, is very good. The
surface is ploughed and cross-ploughed from six to twenty, or even thirty, times in the season;
and the harrow and roller are often applied till every clod is pulverized to dust.

The test of first-rate preparation for the seed is that a ghurra, or earthen pitcher, full
of water, let fall upon the field from a man's head, shall not break. The clods in the muteear
soil are so pulverised only in the fields that are to be irrigated, or to the surface of which
moisture rises from below as the weather becomes warm. The people say that it does so rise
when required in land even a good way from the forest, and that the clods are, in consequence,
not necessary to retain it. This is the only part of India in which I have known the people
take ratoon, or second crops of sugar-cane from the same roots; and the farmers and cultivators
tell me that the second crop is almost as good as the first. The fields in tillage are well
supplied with manure, which is very abundant where so large a portion of the surface is waste;
and affords such fine pasture. They are also well watered, for the water is near the surface,
and in the tight muteear soil a kutcha well, or well without masonry, will stand good for twenty
seasons. To make pucka-wells, or wells lined with burnt bricks and cement, would be costly.
Each well of this kind costs about one hundred rupees. The kutcha-wells, which are lined with
nothing, or with thick ropes of twigs and straw, cost only from five to ten rupees. The people
tell me that oppression and poverty have made them less fastidious than they were formerly;
that formerly it was considered disgraceful to plough with buffaloes, or to use them in carts,
but they are now in common use for both purposes; that vast numbers of the Kunojee Brahmins
and others, who could not formerly drive their own ploughs, drive them now; and that all will
in time condescend to do so, as the penalties of higher payments with and for daughters in
marriage cease to be exacted from men whose necessities have become so pressing.

March 6, 1850. **--Halted at Kurunpoor, where the gentlemen of my camp shot some floricans,
hares, partridges, and a porcupine along the bank of the small river Ole, which flows along
from north-west to south-east within three miles of Kurunpoor.

[** Transcriber's Note: The diary date jumps from the previous entry of February 5, 1850, at
Kurrunpoor. This is a mistake in the date, as at the start of Chapter V the diary jumps back
to February 14, 1850.]

March 7, 1850.--Teekur, twelve miles. The road, for three miles, lay through grass jungle to
the border of the Khyrabad district, whence the plain is covered with cultivation, well studded
with trees, clusters of bamboos, and well peopled with villages, all indicating better management.
A great many fields are reduced to the fine dust above described to receive the sugar-cane,
which is planted in February. The soil is muteear, but has in many parts become impaired by
over-cropping. The people told me that the crops were not so rich as they ought to be, from
the want of manure, which is much felt here, where there is so little pasture for cattle. The
wheat has almost everywhere received an orange tint from the geerwa, or blight, which covers
the leaves, but, happily, has not as yet settled upon the stalks to feed on the sap. This blight,
the cultivators say, arises from the late and heavy rain they have had, and the easterly wind
that prevailed for a few days. The geerwa is a red fungus, which, when it adheres to the stems,
thrusts its roots through the pores of the epidermis and robs the grain of the sap as it ascends.
When easterly winds and sultry weather prevail, the pores of the epidermis appear to be more
opened and exposed to the inroads of these fungi than at other times. If the wind continue
westerly for a fortnight more, little injury may be sustained; but should easterly winds and
sultry weather prevail, the greater part may be lost. "We cultivators and landholders," said
Bukhtawur Sing, "are always in dread of something, and can never feel quite easy: if little
rain falls, we complain of the want of more; if a good deal comes down, we are in dread of
this blight, and never dare to congratulate ourselves on the prospect of good returns." To
the justice and wisdom of this observation all assented.*

[* Westerly winds and cold weather prevailed and the blight did little apparent injury to the
crops; but the wheat crops, generally, over Oude and the adjoining districts, was shrivelled
and deficient in substance. It had "run to stalk" from the excess of rain.]

The landholders of this purgunnah are chiefly Janwar Rajpoots. Kymara, a fine village, through
which we passed, about five miles from Kurunpoor, is the residence of the present head of this
family, Rajah Ajeet Sing. He has a small fort close by, in which he is now preparing to defend
himself against the King's forces. The poor old man came out with all his village community
to meet and talk with me, in the hope that I might interpose to protect him. He is weak in
mind and body, has no son, and, having lately lost his only brother and declared heir to the
estate, his cousins and more distant relations are scrambling for the inheritance. The usual
means of violence, collusion, and intrigue have been had recourse to. The estate is in the
Huzoor Tuhseel, and not under the jurisdiction of the contractor of Khyrabad. The old man seemed
care-worn and very wretched, and told me that the contractor, whom I should meet at Teekur,
had only yesterday received orders from Court to use all his means to oust him from possession,
and make over the estate to his cousin, Jodha Sing, who had lately left him in consequence
of a dispute, after having, since the death of his brother, aided him in the management of
the estate; that he had always paid his revenues to the King punctually, and last year he owed
a balance of only one hundred and sixty rupees, when Anrod Sing, his distant relative, wanted
him to declare his younger brother, Dirj Bijee Sing, his heir to the estate, in lieu of Jodha Sing.

This he refused to do, and Anrod Sing came, with a force of two thousand armed men, supported
by a detachment from Captain Barlow's regiment, and laid siege to his fort, on the pretence
that he was required to give security for the more punctual payment of the revenue. To defend
himself, he was obliged to call in the aid of his clan and neighbours, and expend all that
he had or could borrow, and, at last, constrained to accept Anrod Sing's security, for no merchants
would lend money to a poor man in a state of siege. Anrod Sing had now gone off to Lucknow,
and bribed the person in charge of the Huzoor Tuhseel, Gholam Ruza Khan, one of the most corrupt
men in the corrupt Court of Lucknow, to get an order issued by the Minister to have him turned
out, and the estate made over to Jhoda Sing, from whom he would soon get it on pretence of
accumulated balances, and make it over, in perpetuity, to his brother, Dirj Bijee Sing. In
this attempt, the old man said, a good many lives must be lost and crops destroyed, for his
friends would not let him fall without a struggle.*

[* The old man has been attacked and turned out with the loss of some lives, in spite of the
Resident's remonstrance, and the estate has been made over to Jodha Sing, on the security for
the payment of the revenue of Anrod Sing. Jodha Sing is, naturally, of weak intellect; and
Anrod Sing will soon have him turned out as an incompetent defaulter, and get the estate for
himself, or for his younger brother. Luckily Anrod Sing and Lonee Sing, of Mitholee, are at
daggers-drawn about some villages, which Anrod Sing has seized, and to which Lonee Sing thinks
he has a better right. Their dread of each other will be useful to the Government and the people.]

As soon as we left the poor old man, Bukhtawur Sing said, "This, sir, is the way in which Government
officers manage to control and subdue these sturdy Rajpoot landholders. While they remain united,
as in the Bangur district, they can do nothing with them, and let them keep their estates on
their own terms; but the moment a quarrel takes place between them they take advantage of it:
they adopt the cause of the strongest, and support him in his aggressions upon the other members
of his family or clan till all become weak by division and disorder, and submit. Forty or fifty
years ago, sir, when I used to move about the country on circuit with Saadut Allee Khan, the
then sovereign, as I now move with you, there were many Rajpoot landholders in Oude stronger
than any that defy the Government now; but they dared not then hold their heads so high as
they do now. The local officers employed by him were men of ability, experience, and character,
totally unlike those now employed. Each had a wing of one of the Honourable Company's regiments
and some good guns with him, and was ready and able to enforce his master's orders and the
payment of his just demands; but, since his death, the local officers have been falling off
in character and strength, while the Rajpoot landholders have risen in pride and power. The
aid of the British troops has, by degrees, been altogether withdrawn, and the landholders of
this class despise the Oude Government, and many of them resist its troops whenever they attempt
to enforce the payment of even its most moderate demands. The revenues of the State fall off
as the armed bands of these landholders increase, and families who, in his time, kept up only
fifty armed men, have now five hundred, or even a thousand or two thousand, and spend what
they owe to Government in maintaining them. To pay such bands they withhold the just demands
of the State, rob their weaker neighbours of their possessions, and plunder travellers on the
highway, and men of substance, wherever they can find them.

"When Saadut Allee made over one-half of his dominions to the British Government in 1801, he
was bound to reduce his military force and rely altogether upon the support of your Government.
He did so; but the force he retained, though small, was good; and while that support was afforded
things went on well--he was a wise man, and made the most of the means he had. Since that time,
sir, the Oude force has been increased four-fold, as your aid has been withdrawn; but the whole
is not equal to the fourth part which served under Saadut Allee. You see how insignificant
it everywhere is, and how much it is despised even by the third-class Rajpoot landholders.
You see, also, how they everywhere prey upon the people, and are dreaded and detested by them:
the only estates free from their inroads are those under the 'Huzoor Tuhseel,' into which the
Amils and their disorderly hosts dare not enter. If the landholders could be made to feel that
they would not be permitted to seize other men's possessions, nor other men to seize theirs,
as long as they obeyed the Government and paid its just dues, they would disband these armed
followers, and the King might soon reduce his. He will never make them worth anything; there
are too many worthless, but influential persons about the Court, interested in keeping up all
kinds of abuses, to permit this. These abuses are the chief source of their incomes: they rob
the officers and sipahees, and even the draft-bullocks; and you everywhere see how the poor
animals are starved by them."

Within a mile of the camp I met the Nazim, Hoseyn Allee Khan, who told me that Rajah Goorbuksh
Sing, of Ramnuggur Dhumeree, had fulfilled all the engagements entered into before me at Byramghat,
on the Ghagra, on the 6th of December, and was no longer opposed to the Government; and that
the only large landholder in his district who remained so at present was Seobuksh Sing, of
Kateysura, a strong fort, mounted with seven guns, near the road over which I am to pass the
day after tomorrow, between Oel and Lahurpoor. As he came up on his little elephant along the
road, I saw half-a-dozen of his men, mounted on camels, trotting along through a fine field
of wheat, now in ear, with as much unconcern as if they had been upon a fine sward to which
they could do no harm. I saw one of my people in advance make a sign to them, on which they
made for the road as fast as they could. I asked the Nazim how he could permit such trespass.
He told me, "That he did not see them, and unless his eye was always upon them he could not
prevent their doing mischief, for they were the King's servants, who never seemed happy unless
they were trespassing upon some of his Majesty's subjects." Nothing, certainly, seems to delight
them so much as the trespasses of all kinds which they do commit upon them.

March 8, 1850.--Oel, five miles, over a plain of the same fine muteear soil, beautifully cultivated
and studded with trees, intermixed with numerous clusters of the graceful bamboo. A great-
grandson of the monster Nadir Shah, of Persia, Ruza Kolee Khan, who commands a battalion in
the King of Oude's service, rode by me, and I asked him whether he ever saw such a cultivated
country in Persia. "Never," said he: "Persia is a hilly country, and there is no tillage like
this in any part of it. I left Persia, with my father, twenty- two years ago, when I was twenty-two
years of age, and I have still a very distinct recollection of what it was then. There is no
country in the world, sir," said the Nazim, "like Hindoostan, when it enjoys the blessings
of a good government. The purgunnah of Kheree, in which we now are, is all held by the heads
of three families of Janwar Rajpoots: Rajah Ajub Sing, of Kymara; Anrod Sing, of Oel; and Umrao
Sing, of Mahewa. There are only sixty-six villages of Khalsa, or Crown lands left, yielding
twenty-one thousand rupees a-year. The rest have been all absorbed by the heads of these Rajpoot
families.

                        Villages.           Jumma.
    Kymara   .   .   .     82   .   .    13,486  0  0
    Oel  .   .   .   .    170   .   .    54,790  0  0
    Mahewa   .   .   .     70   .   .    20,835  0  0

                          322   .   .    89,111  0  0
    Khalsa   .   .   .     66   .   .    21,881  0  0

                          388   .   .  1,10,992  0  0

"These heads of families have each a fort, surrounded by a strong fence of bamboos, and mounted
with good guns; and the King cannot get so large a revenue from them as he did thirty years
ago, in the time of Hakeem Mehndee, though their lands are as well tilled now as they were
then, and yield more rent to their holders. They spend it all in keeping up large armed bands
to resist the Government; but they certainly take care of their cultivators and tenants of
all kinds, and no man dares molest them.

"But," said Bukhtawur Sing, "this beautiful scene would all be changed were they encouraged
or permitted to contend with each other for the possession of the lands. I yesterday saw a
great number of the merchants of Kymara following the Resident's camp; and, on asking them
why, they told me that the order from Court obtained by Gholam Ruza for you (the Nazim) to
assist the Oel chief, Anrod Sing, in despoiling Rajah Ajub Sing of his estate, had driven out
all who had no fields of corn or other local ties to detain them, and had anything to lose
by remaining. The chief and his retainers were repairing their fort, and preparing to fight
for their possessions to the last; and if you take your disorderly force against them according
to orders, the crops now in the ground will be all destroyed, and the numerous fields now prepared
to receive sugar-cane and the autumn seed will be left waste: they will make reprisals upon
Oel; others of their clan will join in the strife; and this district will be what that of Bharwara,
which we have just left, now is. The merchants are in the right, sir, to make off: no property
in such a scene is ever safe. There is no property, sir, like that in the Honourable Company's
paper: it is the only property that we can enjoy in peace. You feel no anxiety about it. It
doubles itself in fifteen or sixteen years; and you go on from generation to generation enjoying
your five per cent., and neither fearing nor annoying anybody."

The two villages of Oel and Dhukwa adjoin each other, and form a large town; but the dwelling-houses
have a wretched appearance, consisting of naked mud walls, with but a few more grass-choppers
than are usually found upon them in Oude towns. There is a good- looking temple, dedicated
to Mahadeo, in the centre of the town, and the houses are close upon the ditch of the fort,
which has its bamboo-fence inside its ditch and outer mud walls. I have written to the Durbar
to recommend that the order for the attack upon Rajah Ajub Sing be countermanded, and more
pacific measures adopted for the settlement of the claims of the Exchequer and Anrod Sing upon
poor old Ajub Sing.

The Kanoongoes of this place tell me that the dispute has arisen from a desire, on the part
of the old man's wife, to set aside the just claim of Jodha Sing, the old man's nephew, to
the inheritance, in favour of a lad whom she has adopted and brought up, by name Teeka Sing,
in whose name the estate is now managed by a servant; that Jodha Sing is the rightful heir,
and managed the estate well for his uncle, after the death of his brother, till lately, when
his aunt persuaded his uncle to break with him, which he did with reluctance; that Jodha Sing
now lives in retirement at his village of Barkerwa; that Anrod Sing's design upon the inheritance
for his younger brother, Dirj Bijee Sing, is unjust; and that he is, in consequence, obliged
to prosecute it on the pretence of recovering money due, and supporting the claim of Jodha
Sing, and in collusion with the officers of Government; that Gholam Ruza, who has charge of
the Huzoor Tuhseel, is ready to adopt the cause of any one who will pay him; and that Anrod
Sing is now at Lucknow paying his court to him, and getting these iniquitous orders issued.

Oel was transferred to the Huzoor Tuhseel in 1834, Kymara in 1836, and Mahewa in 1839. These
Rajpoot landholders do not often seize upon the lands of a relative at once, but get them by
degrees by fraud and collusion with Government officers, so that they may share the odium with
them. They instigate these officers to demand more than the lands can pay; offer the enhanced
rate, and get the lands at once; or get a mortgage, run up the account, and foreclose by their
aid. They no sooner get the estate than they reduce the Government demand, by collusion or
violence, to less than what the former proprietor had paid.

March 9, 1850.--Lahurpoor, twelve miles, over a plain of doomuteea soil, well studded with
groves and single trees, but not so fully cultivated the last half way as the first. For the
first halfway the road lies through the estate of Anrod Sing, of Oel; but for the last it runs
through that of Seobuksh Sing, a Gour Rajpoot, who has a fort near the town of Kuteysura, five
miles from Lahurpoor, and seven from Oel. It is of mud, and has a ditch all round, and a bamboo-fence
inside the outer walls. It is of great extent, but not formidable against well-provided troops.
The greater part of the houses in the town are in ruins, and Seobuksh has the reputation of
being a reckless and improvident landholder. He is said not only to take from his tenants higher
rates of rent than he ought, but to extort from them very often a property tax, highly and
capriciously rated. This is what the people call the bhalmansae, of which they have a very
great abhorrence. "You are a bhala manus" (a gentleman, or man of substance), he says to his
tenant, "and must have property worth at least a thousand rupees. I want money sadly, and must
have one-fifth: give me two hundred rupees." This is what the people call "bhalmansae," or
rating a man according to his substance; and to say that a landlord or governor does this,
is to say that he is a reckless oppressor, who has no regard to obligations or to consequences.

There are manifest signs of the present landholder, Seobuksh Sing, being of this character;
but others, not less manifest, of his grandfather having been a better man, in the fine groves
which surround Lahurpoor, and the villages between this place and Kuteysura, all of which are
included in his estate. These groves were, for the most part, planted during the life of his
grandfather by men of substance, who were left free to-dispose of their property as they thought
best.

All the native gentlemen who rode with me remarked on the beauty of the approach to Lahurpoor,
in which a rich carpet of spring crops covers the surface up to the groves, and extends along
under the trees which have been recently planted. There are many young groves about the place,
planted by men who have acquired property by trade, and by the savings out of the salaries
and perquisites of office at Lahurpoor, which is the residence of the Nazim, or local governor,
during several months in the year; and the landlord, Seobuksh, cannot venture to exact his
property-tax from them. The air and water are much praised, and the general good health of
the troops, civil establishments, and residents of all classes, show that the climate must
be good. The position, too, is well chosen with reference to the districts, and the character
of the people under the control of the governor of the Khyrabad district.

The estate of Seobuksh is very extensive. The soil is all good and the plain level, so that
every part of it is capable of tillage. Rutun Sing, the father of Seobuksh, is said to have
been a greater rack-renter, rebel, and robber than his son is, and together they have injured
the estate a good deal, and reduced it from a rent-roll of one hundred thousand to one of forty.
Its rent-roll is now estimated in the public accounts at 54,640, out of which is deducted a
nankar of 17,587, leaving a Government demand of only 37,053. This he can't pay; and he has
shut himself up sullenly in his mud fort, where the Nazim dares not attack him. He is levying
contributions from the surrounding villages, but has not yet plundered or burnt down any. He
was lately in prison, for two years; but released on the security of Rajah Lonee Sing, of Mitholee,
whose wife is his wife's sister. He, however, says that he was pledged to produce him when
required, not before the present Nazim, but his predecessor; and that he is no longer bound
by this pledge. This reasoning would, of course, have no weight with the Government authorities,
nor would it be had recourse to were Lonee Sing less strong. Each has a strong fort and a band
of steady men. The Nazim has not the means to attack Seobuksh, and dares not attack Lonee Sing,
as his estate of Pyla is in the "Huzoor Tuhseel," and under the protection of Court favourites,
who are well paid by him.

Lonee Sing's estate of Mitholee is in the Mahomdee district, and under the jurisdiction of
the Amil; and it is only the portion, consisting of one hundred and four recently-acquired
villages, which he holds in the Pyla estate, in the Khyrabad district, that has been made over
to the Huzoor Tuhseel.* He offered an increased rate for these villages to the then Amil, Bhowood
Dowlah, in the year A.D. 1840. It was accepted, and he attacked, plundered, and murdered a
good many of the old proprietors, and established such a dread among them, that he now manages
them with little difficulty. Basdeo held fourteen of these villages under mortgage, and sixteen
more under lease. He had his brother, maternal uncle, and a servant killed by Lonee Sing, and
is now reduced to beggary. Lonee Sing took the lease in March, 1840, and commenced this attack
in May.

[* Anrod Sing holds twenty-eight villages in the Pyla estate, acquired in the same way as those
held by Lonee Sing.]

The Nazim had with him, of infantry, 1. Futteh Aesh Nujeebs. 2. Wuzeree, ditto. 3. Zuffur,
Mobaruk Telinga. 4. Futteh Jung ditto; Ruza Kolee Khan. 5. Captain Barlow's ditto. Eleven guns.
But, being unable to get any duty from the three regiments first named, he offered to dispense
with the two first, on condition that the command of the third should be placed at his disposal
for his son or nephew.

This request was complied with; and, on paying a fee of five thousand rupees, he got the dress
of investiture, and offered it to Lieutenant Orr, a very gallant officer, the second in command
of Captain Barlow's corps, as the only way to render the corps so efficient as he required
it to be. The Durbar took away the two regiments; but, as soon as they heard that Lieutenant
Orr was to command the third, they appointed Fidda Hoseyn, brother of the ruffian Mahommed
Hoseyn, who had held the district of Mahomdee, and done so much mischief to it. Fidda Hoseyn,
of course, paid a high sum for the command to be exacted from his subordinates, or the people
of the district in which it might be employed; and the regiment has remained worse than useless.
Of the eleven guns, five are useless on the ground, and without bullocks. The bullocks for
the other six are present, but too weak to draw anything. They had had no grain for many years;
but within the last month they have had one-half seer each per day out of the one seer and
half paid for by Government. There is no ammunition, stores, or anything else for the guns,
and the best of the carriages are liable to fall to pieces with the first discharge. They are
not allowed to repair them, but must send them in to get them changed for others when useless.
The Durbar knows that if they allow the local officers to charge for the repair of guns, heavy
charges will be made, and no gun ever repaired; and the local officers know that if they send
in a gun to be repaired at Lucknow, they will get in exchange one painted to look well, but
so flimsily done up that it will go to pieces the first or second time it is fired.

Captain Barlow's corps is a good one, and the men are finer than any that I have seen in our
own infantry regiments, though they get only five rupees a-month each, while ours get seven.
They prefer this rate under European officers in the Oude service, to the seven rupees a- month
which sipahees get in ours, though they have no pension establishment or extra allowance while
marching. They feel sure that their European commandants will secure them their pay sooner
or later; they escape many of the harassing duties to which our sipahees are liable; they have
leave to visit their homes one month in twelve; they never have to march out of Oude to distant
stations, situated in bad climates; they get fuel and fodder, and often food, for nothing;
their baggage is always carried for them at the public cost. But to secure them their pay,
arms, accoutrements, clothing, &c., the commandant must be always about the Court himself,
or have an ambassador of some influence there at great cost. Captain Barlow is almost all his
time at Court, as much from choice as expediency, drawing all his allowances and emoluments
of all kinds, while his second in command performs his regimental duties for him. The other
officers like this, because they know that the corps could not possibly be kept in the state
it is without it. Captain Barlow has lately obtained three thousand rupees for the repair of
his six gun- carriages, tumbrils, &c., that is, five hundred for each. They had not been repaired
for ten years; hardly any of the others have been repaired for the last twenty or thirty years.

The Nazim of this district of Khyrabad has taken the farm of it for one year at nine lacs of
rupees, that is one lac and a half less than the rate at which it was taken by his predecessor
last year. He tells me, that he was obliged, to enter into engagements to pay in gratuities
fifty thousand to the minister, of which he has as yet paid only five thousand; twenty-five
thousand to the Dewan, Balkishun, and seven thousand to Gholam Ruza, who has charge of the
Huzoor Tuhseel--that he was obliged to engage to pay four hundred rupees a-month, in salaries,
to men named by the Dewan, who do no duty, and never show their faces to him; and similar sums
to the creatures of the minister and others--that he was obliged to pay gratuities to a vast
number of understrappers at Court--that he was not made aware of the amount of these gratuities,
&c., till he had received his dress of investiture, and had merely promised to pay what his
predecessor had paid--that when about to set out, the memorandum of what his predecessor had
paid was put into his hand, and it was then too late to remonstrate or draw back. There may
be some exaggeration in the rate of the gratuities demanded; but that he has to pay them to
the persons named I have no doubt whatever, because; all men in charge of districts have to
pay them to those persons, whether they hold the districts in contract, or in trust.

The Zuffer Mobaruk regiment, with its commandant, Fidda Hoseyn, is now across the Ghagra in
charge of Dhorehra, an estate in the forest belonging to Rajah Arjun Sing, who has absconded
in consequence of having been ruined by the rapacity of a native collector last year; and they
are diligently employed in plundering all the people who remain. The estate paid 2,75,000 a-year
till these outrages began; and it cannot now pay fifty thousand. Arjun Sing and Seobuksh Sing,
of Kuteysura, are the only refractory landholders in the Khyrabad district at present.

March 10, 1850.--Halted at Lahurpoor. There is good ground for large civil and military establishments
to the south of the town, about a mile out, on the left of the road leading to Khyrabad. It
is a fine open plain of light soil. New pucka-wells would be required; and some low ground,
near the south and north, would also require to be drained, as water lies in it during the
rains. There is excellent ground nearer the town on the same side, but the mango-groves are
thick and numerous, and would impede the circulation of air. The owners would, moreover be
soon robbed of them were a cantonment, or civil station, established among or very near to
them. The town and site of any cantonment, or civil station, should be taken from the Kuteysura
estate, and due compensation made to the holder, Seobuksh. The town is a poor one; and the
people are keeping their houses uncovered, and removing their property under the apprehension
that Seobuksh will attack and plunder the place. All the merchants and respectable landholders,
over the districts bordering on the Tarae forest, through which we have passed, declare, that
all the colonies of Budukh dacoits, who had, for many generations, up to 1842, been located
in this forest, have entirely disappeared. Not a family of them can now be found anywhere in
Oude. Six or eight hundred of their brave and active men used to sally forth every year, and
carry their depredations into Bengal, Bebar and all the districts of the north- west provinces.
Their suppression has been a great benefit conferred upon the people of India by the British
Government.

March 11, 1850.--Kusreyla, ten miles, over a plain of excellent muteear soil scantily cultivated,
but studded with fine trees, single and in groves. Kusreyla is among the three hundred villages
which have been lately taken in mortgage from the proprietors, and in lease from Government,
by Monowur-od Dowlah, the nephew and heir of the late Hakeem Mehndee. He is inviting and locating
in these villages many cultivators of the best classes; and they will all soon be in a fine
state of tillage. No soil can be finer, and no acre of it is incapable of bearing fine crops.
The old proprietors and lessees, to whom he had lent money on mortgage, have persuaded him
to foreclose, that they may come under so substantial and kind a landholder. They prefer holding
the sub-lease under such a man, to holding the lease directly under Government, subject to
the jurisdiction of the Nazim. Monowur-od Dowlah pays forty thousand rupees a-year for the
whole to Government, and has had the whole transferred to the Huzoor Tuhseel.

The Nazim of Khyrabad rode by my side during this morning's march, and at my request he described
the mutiny which took place in two of the regiments that attended him in the siege of Bhitolee,
just before I crossed the Ghagra at Byramghat. These were the Futteh Aesh, and the Wuzeeree.
Their commandants are Allee Hoseyn, a creature of one of the singers, Kootab Allee; and Mahommed
Akhbur, a creature of the minister's. They were earnestly urged by the minister and Nazim to
join their regiments for the short time they would be on this important service, but in vain;
nothing could induce them to quit the Court. All the corps mentioned above, as attending the
Nazim, were present, and the siege had begun when, on the 17th of November, some shopkeepers
in camp, having been robbed during the night by some thieves, shut up their shops, and prepared
to leave the camp in a body. The siege could not go on if the traders all left the place; and
he sent a messenger to call the principal men that he might talk to them. They refused to move,
and the messenger, finding that they were ready to set out, seized one of them by the waist-hand,
and when he resisted, struck him on the head with a stick, and said he would make him go to
his master. The man called out to some sipahees of the Wuzeeree regiment, who were near, to
rescue him. They did so: the messenger struggled to hold his grasp, but was dragged off and
beaten. He returned the blows; the sipahees drew their swords: he seized one of the swords
and ran off towards his master's tent, waiving it over his head, to defend himself, followed
by some of the sipahees. The others ran back to the grove in which their regiment and the Futteh
Aesh were bivouaced; both regiments seized their arms and ran towards the Nazim's tents; and
when they got within two hundred yards, commenced firing upon them.

The Nazim had with him only a few of his own armed servants. They seized their arms, and begged
permission to return the fire, but were restrained till the regiment came near, and two tomandars,
or officers, who stood by the Nazim, were shot down, one dead; and the other disabled. His
men could be restrained no longer, and they shot down two of the foremost of the assailants.
The Nazim then sent off to Lieutenant Orr, who was exercising his corps with blank cartridge
on the parade; and, supposing that one of these regiments was doing the same thing near the
Nazim's tents, he paid no attention to them. He and his brother, the Adjutant, ran forward,
and entreated the two regiments to cease firing; and the Nazim sent out Syud Seoraj-od Deen
(the commandant of the Bhurmar regiment, stationed in the adjoining district of Ramnugger Dhumeree,
who had just come to him on a visit), with the Koran in his hand, to do the same. The remonstrances
of both were in vain. They continued to fire upon the Nazim, and Lieutenant Orr went off to
bring up his regiment, which stood ready to move on the parade. Alarmed at this, the two regiments
ran off to their grove, and the firing ceased.

During all this time, the other two regiments, the Zuffer Mobaruk and Futteh Jung, stood looking
on as indifferent spectators; and afterwards took great credit to themselves for not joining
in this attempt to blow up the viceroy, who was obliged, the next day, to go to their camp
and apologize humbly for his men having presumed to return their fire, which he declared that
they had done without his orders! On his doing this, they consented to forego their claim to
have the unhappy messenger sent to their camp to be executed; and to remain with him during
the siege. As to taking any part in the siege and assault on the fort, that was altogether
out of their line. Ruza Kolee Khan, the commandant of the Futteh Jung, was at Lucknow during
this mutiny, but he joined a few days after. Lieutenant Orr gave me the same narrative of the
affair at the dinner-table last night; and said, that he and his brother had a very narrow
escape-- that his regiment would have destroyed all the mutineers had they been present; and
he left them on the parade lest he might not be able to restrain them in such a scene. Even
this mutiny of the two regiments could not tempt their commandants to leave Court, where they
are still enjoying the favour of their patrons, the minister and the singers, and a large share
of the pay and perquisites of their officers and sipahees, though the regiments have been sent
off to the two disturbed districts of Sundela and Salone.

They dare not face the most contemptible enemy, but they spare not the weak and inoffensive
of any class, age, or sex. A respectable landholder, in presenting a petition, complaining
of the outrages committed upon his village and peasantry, said a few days ago--"The oppression
of these revenue collectors, and their disorderly troops, is intolerable, sir--they plunder
all who cannot resist them, but cannot lift their arms, or draw their breath freely in the
presence of armed robbers and rebels--it is a proverb, sir, that insects prey upon soft wood;
and these men prey only upon the peaceful and industrious, who are unable to defend themselves."
The Nazim tells me, that the lamentations of the poor people, plundered and maltreated, were
incessant and distressing during the whole time these two corps were with him; and that he
could exercise no control whatever over them, protected as they were, in all their iniquities,
by the Court favour their two commandants enjoyed at Lucknow.*

[* Kootab Allee was one of the singers who were soon after banished from Oude in disgrace.
But all the influence they exercised over the King has been concentrated in the hands of the
two singers who remained, Mosahib Allee and Anees-od Dowla. All are despicable domes; but the
two, who now govern the King, are much worse characters than any of those who were banished.]

I asked Bukhtawur Sing, before the Nazim overtook us this morning, why it was, that these governors
always took so many troops with them when they moved from place to place, merely to settle
accounts and inspect the crops. "Some of them," said he, "take all the troops they can muster,
to show that they are great men; but, for the most part, they are afraid to move without them.
They, and the greater part of the landholders, consider each other as natural and irreconcilable
enemies; and a good many of those, who hold the largest estates, are at all times in open resistance
against the Government. They have their Vakeels with the contractors when they are not so,
and spies when they are. They know all his movements, and would waylay and carry him off if
not surrounded with a strong body of soldiers, for he is always moving over the country, with
every part of which they are well acquainted. Besides, under the present system of allowing
them to forage or plunder for themselves, it is ruinous to any place to leave them in it for
even a few days--no man, within several miles, would preserve shelter for his family, or food
for his cattle, during the hot and rainy months--he is obliged to take them about with him
to distribute, as equally as he can, the terrible burthen of maintaining them. Now that the
sugar-cane is ripe, not one cane would be preserved in any field within five miles of any place
where the Nazim kept his troops for ten days."

March 12, 1850.--Seetapoor, nine miles over a plain of muteear soil, the greater part of which
is light, and yields but scanty crops without manure, which is very scarce. Immediately about
the station and villages, where manure is available, the crops are good. The wind continues
westerly, the sky is clear, and the blight does not seem to increase.

The 2nd Regiment of Oude Local Infantry is stationed at Seetapoor, but it has no guns or cavalry
of any kind. Formerly there was a corps of the Honourable Company's Native Infantry here, with
two guns and a detail of artillery. The sipahees of this corps, and of the 1st Oude Local Infantry,
at Sultanpoor, are somewhat inferior in appearance to those of our own native infantry regiments,
and still more so to the Oude corps under Captains Barlow, Magness, and Bunbury. They receive
five rupees eight annas a-month pay, and batta, or extra allowance, when marching; and the
same pay as our own sipahees of the line (seven rupees a-month) when serving with them. But
the commandants cannot get recruits equal to those that enlist in our regiments of the line,
or those that enlist in the corps of the officers above named. They have not the rest and the
licence of the one, while they have the same drill and discipline, without the same rate of
pay as the other. They have now the privilege of petitioning through the Resident like our
sipahees of the line, and that of the pension establishment, while Barlow's, Bunbury's, and
Magness's corps have neither. They have none but internal duties--they are hardly ever sent
out to aid the King's local authorities, and do not escort treasure even for their own pay.
It is sent to them by drafts from Lucknow on the local collectors of the district in which
they are cantoned; and the money required for the Resident's Treasury--a great portion of which
passes through the Seetapoor cantonments--is escorted by our infantry regiments of the line,
stationed at Lucknow, merely because a General Order exists that no irregular corps shall be
employed on such duties while any regular corps near has a relief of guards present. The corps
of regular infantry at Shajehanpoor escorts the treasure six marches to Seetapoor, where it
is relieved by a detachment from one of the regular corps at Lucknow, six marches distant.

The native officers and sipahees of these two corps have leave of absence to visit their families
just as often and for just as long periods as those of the corps under the three above-named
officers-- that is, for one month out of twelve. The native officers and sipahees of these
three corps are not, however, so much drilled or restrained as those of the two Oude local
corps, in which no man dares to help himself occasionally to the roofs of houses and the produce
of fields or gardens; nor to take presents from local authorities, as they are hardly ever
sent out to assist them. The native officers and sipahees of the very best of the King of Oude's
corps do all this more or less; and they become, in consequence, more attached to their officers
and the service. Moreover, the commandants of the two corps of Oude local infantry never become
mediators between large landholders and local governors as those of the King of Oude's corps
so often do; nor are any landed estates ever assigned to them for the liquidation of their
arrears of pay, and confided to their management. So highly do the native officers of these
three Oude Komukee corps appreciate all the privileges and perquisites they enjoy, when out
on duty under district officers, that they consider short periods of guard duty in the city,
where they have none of them, as serious punishments.

The drainage about Seetapoor is into the small river Surain, which flows along on the west
boundary, and is excellent; and the lands in and about the station are at all times dry. The
soil, too, is good; and the place, on the whole, is well adapted for the cantonment of a much
larger force.

March 13, 1850.--Khyrabad, east nine miles, over a plain of doomuteea soil with much oosur.
A little outlay and labour seem, however, to make this oosur produce good crops. On entering
the town on the west side, we passed over a good stone bridge over this little stream, the
Surain; and to the east of the town is another over the still smaller stream of the Gond. Khyrabad
is not so well drained as Seetapoor, nor would it be so well adapted for a large cantonment.
It is considered to be less healthy. There is an avenue of good trees all the way from Seetapoor
to Khyrabad, a distance of six miles, planted by Hakeem Mehndee. Our camp being to the eastern
extremity of the town, renders the distance nine miles.

Yesterday at Seetapoor I had a visit from Monowur-od Dowla, late prime minister, and Moomtaz-od
Dowla, grandson to the late King, Mahommed Allee Shah, on their way out to the Tarae forest
to join Kindoo Rao, the brother of the Byza Bae, of Gwalior, in pursuit of tigers. This morning
on the road, old Bukhtawur Sing, after a sigh, said: "I presented a nazur to the prince, Moomtaz-od
Dowla, sir; he is the grandson of a King, and the victim of the folly and crime of shooting
a monkey! His father, Asgur Allee Khan, was the eldest son of Mahommed Allee Shah, and elder
brother of Amjud Allee Shah, the father of the present King. He was fond of his gun, and one
day a monkey, of the red and short-tailed kind, came and sat upon one of his out-offices. He
sent for his gun, and shot it dead with a ball. The very next day, sir, he had a severe attack
of fever, which carried him off in three days. During this time he frequently called out in
terror, 'Save me from that monkey! save me from that monkey!' --pointing to the part of the
room in which he saw him. The monkey killed Asgur Allee Khan, sir; and no man ever escapes
death or misery who wilfully kills one. Moomtaz-od Dowla might, sir, have been now King of
Oude had his father not shot that monkey."

"But I thought," said I, "it was the hanoomaun, or long-tailed monkey, that was held sacred
by the Hindoos?"--"Sir," said Bukhtawur Sing, "both are alike sacred.* Nuseer-od Deen Hyder,
the predecessor of Mahommed Allee Shah, went one day shooting in the dilkhoosha park. Several
of the long-tailed monkeys came and sat upon a mango-tree near him. He could not resist the
temptation, and shot several of them, one after another, with ball. He returned to the palace;
but had not been home more than three hours, when he and his favourite wife, the Kooduseea
Begum,** had a fierce quarrel, in which both became insane; she was so enraged that she took
poison forthwith, and, in her agony, actually spit up her liver, which had been torn to pieces
by the force of the poison! The King could not stand the horrible sight, and ran off and hid
himself in the race-stand, near which you fell and broke your thigh-bone in April last; there
he remained shut up till she died. He had had warning, sir, for a few months after his accession
to the throne; I attended him and his minister, Aga Meer, on a visit to the garden, called
padshah baag, on the opposite side of the river: he had a gun with him, and, seeing a monkey
on a tree, he ordered the prime minister to try his hand at it. I told Aga Meer that evil would
certainly befall him or his house if he shot the animal, and begged his Majesty not to assist
upon the minister's doing it. Both laughed at what they thought my folly; the minister shot
the monkey; and in a few days he was out of office and in a prison. One way or other, sir,
a man who wilfully destroys a monkey is sure to be punished."

[* That Asgur Allee Khan, the eldest son of the King, Mahommed Allee Shah, did shoot the monkey,
got a fever a few days after, and died of it, are facts well known at Lucknow. That he often
mentioned the monkey during his delirium, is generally believed; and that his death was the
consequence of his shooting that animal is the opinion of all the Hindoo, and a great part
of the Musulman, population. His death, while his father lived, deprived his son, Moomtaz-od
Dowla, of the throne.]

[** The Kooduseea Begum had been introduced into the palace as waiting-woman to Mulika Zumanee,
whom she soon superseded in the King's affections, which she retained till her death. She was
married to the King on the 17th December, 1831, and died on the 21st of August 1834.]

At Khyrabad there is a handsome set of buildings, consisting of a mausoleum over his father,
a mosque, an imambara, and a kudum rusool, or shrine with the print of the prophet's foot,
erected by Mucka Durzee, a tailor in the service of the King, who made a large fortune out
of his master's favours, and who still lives, and provides for their repair and suitable endowment.
These buildings are, like all others of the same kind, infested by a host of professional religious
mendicants of both sexes and all ages, who make the air resound with their clamours for alms.
Not only are such buildings so infested, but all the towns around them. I could not help observing
to the native gentlemen who attended me, "that when men planted groves and avenues, and built
reservoirs, bridges, caravansaries, and wells, they did not give rise to any such sources of
annoyance to travellers; that they enjoyed the water, shade, and accommodation, without cost
or vexation, and went on their way blessing the donor." "That," said an old Rusaldar, "is certainly
taking a new and just view of the case; but still it is a surprising thing to see a man in
this humble sphere of life raising and maintaining so splendid a pile of buildings."*

[* Mucka the tailor, to whom these buildings belong, is the person mentioned in the account
of the death of the King, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, and the confinement of Ghalib Jung.]

The town of Khyrabad has still a good many inhabitants; but the number is fast decreasing.
It was the residence of the families of a good many public officers in our service and that
of Oude; and the local authorities of the district used to reside here. They do so no longer;
and the families of public officers have almost all gone to reside at other places. Life and
property have become exceedingly insecure, and attacks by gang-robbers so frequent that no
man thinks his house and family safe for a single night. Government officers are entirely occupied
in the collection of revenue, and they disregard altogether the sufferings and risks to which
the people of towns are exposed. The ground around the place is low, and the climate is inferior
to that of Seetapoor. Salt and saltpetre are 'made from the soil immediately round the town.

I have mentioned that Moomtaz-od Dowla might now have been King of Oude had his father not
died before his father. The Mohammedan law excludes for ever the children of any person who
dies before the person to whom he or she is the next heir from all right in the inheritance.
Under the operation of this law, the sons of the eldest son of the reigning King are excluded
from the succession if he dies before his father, and the crown devolves on the second son,
or on the brother of the King, if he leaves no other son. The sons of all the sons who die,
while their father lives, are mahjoob-ol-irs, that is, excluded from inheritance. In the same
manner, if the next brother of the King dies before him, his sons are excluded from the succession,
which devolves on the third brother, and so on through all the brothers. For instance, on the
death, without any recognised issue, of Nuseer-od Been Hyder, son of Ghazee-od Deen, he was
succeeded on the throne by Mahommed Allee Shah, the third brother of Ghazee-od Deen, though
four sons of the second brother, Shums-od Dowla, still lived. On the death of Mahommed Allee
Shah, he was succeeded by his second son, Amjud Allee Shah, though Moomtaz-od Dowla, the son
of his eldest son, Asgur Allee Khan, still lived. Shums-od Dowla died before his elder brother,
Ghazee-od Deen; and Asgur Allee Khan before his father, Mahommed Allee Shah: and the sons of
both became, in consequence, mahjoob-ol-irs, excluded from succession. The same rule guides
the succession among the Delhi sovereigns. This exclusion extends to all kinds of property,
as well as to sovereignty.

Moomtaz-od Dowla is married to Zeenut-on Nissa, the daughter of Mulika Zumanee, one of the
consorts of Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, late King of Oude; and he has, I fear, more cause to regret
his union with her than his exclusion from the throne. Zeenut-on Nissa enjoys a pension of
ten thousand rupees a-month, in her own right, under the guarantee of the British Government.
I may here, as an episode not devoid of interest, give a brief account of her mother, who,
for some years, during the reign of Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, presided over the palace at Lucknow.
Before I do so I may mention that the King, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, had been married to a grand-daughter
of the Emperor of Delhi, a very beautiful young woman, of exemplary character, who still survives,
and retains the respect of the royal family and people of Lucknow. Finding the Court too profligate
for her, she retired into private life soon after the marriage, and has remained there ever
since upon a small stipend from the King.

Mulika Zumanee, queen of the age, was a daughter of a Hindoo of the Koormee caste, who borrowed
from his neighbour, Futteh Morad, the sum of sixty rupees, to purchase cloth. He soon after
died, leaving a widow, and a daughter named Dolaree, then five years of age. They were both
seized and confined for the debt by Futteh Morad; but, on the mother's consenting to leave
her daughter in bondage for the debt, she was released. Futteh Morad's sister, Kuramut-on Nissa,
adopted Dolaree, who was a prepossessing child, and brought her up as her daughter; but finding,
as she grew up, that she was too intimate with Roostum, the son by a former husband of her
brother's second wife, she insisted on their being married, and they were so. Futteh Morad
soon after died, and his first wife turned the second, with her first son, Roostum, and his
wife, Dolaree, and the two sons which she had borne to Futteh Morad--Futteh Allee Khan and
Warus Allee Khân-- out of her house. They went to Futteh Morad's aunt, Bebee Mulatee, a learned
woman, who resided as governess in the house of Nawab Mohubbet Khan, at Roostumnugger, near
Lucknow, and taught his daughters to read the Koran. Finding Dolaree to be not the most faithful
of wives to Roostum, she would not admit them into the Nawab's house, but she assisted them
with food and raiment; and Roostum entered the service--as a groom--of a trooper in the King's
cavalry, called Abas Kolee Beg. Dolaree had given birth to a boy, who was named Mahommed Allee;
and she now gave birth to a daughter; but she had cohabited with a blacksmith and an elephant-driver
in the neighbourhood, and it became a much "vexed question" whether the son and daughter resembled
most Roostum, the blacksmith, or the elephant- driver; all, however, were agreed upon the point
of Dolaree's backslidings. Mahommed Allee, alias Kywan Ja, was three years of age, and the
daughter, Zeenut-on Nissa, one year and half, when some belted attendants from the palace came
to Roostumnugger in search of a wet-nurse for the young prince, Moona Jan, who had been born
the night before; and Bebee Mulatee, whose reputation for learning had readied the royal family,
sent off Dolaree as one of the candidates for employment. Her appearance pleased the queen,
the Padshah Begum, the quality of her milk was pronounced by the royal physicians to be first
rate, and she was chosen, as wet-nurse for the new-born prince.

Moona Jan's father (then heir-apparent to the throne of Oude) no sooner saw Dolaree than, to
the astonishment of the Queen and her Court, he fell desperately in love with her, though she
seemed very plain and very vulgar to all other eyes; and he could neither repose himself, nor
permit anybody else in the palace to repose, till he obtained the King's and Queen's consent
to his making her his wife, which he did in 1826. She soon acquired an entire ascendancy over
his weak mind, and, anxious to surround herself in her exalted station by people on whom she
could entirely rely, she invited the learned Bebee Mulatee and her daughter, Jumeel-on Nissa,
and her son, Kasim Beg, to the palace, and placed them in high and confidential posts. She
invited at the same time Futteh Allee and Warus Allee, the sons of Futteh Morad by his second
wife; and persuaded the King that they were all people of high lineage, who had been reduced,
by unmerited misfortunes, to accept employments so humble. All were raised to the rank of Nawabs,
and placed in situations of high trust and emoluments. Kuramut-on Nissa, too, the sister of
Futteh Morad, was invited; but when Dolaree's husband--the humble Roostum--ventured to approach
the Court, he was seized and imprisoned in a fort in the Bangur district till the death of
Nuseer-od Deen, when he was released. He came to Lucknow, but died soon after.

Soon after the death of Ghazee-od Deen had placed the heir-apparent, her husband, on the throne,
20th of October, 1827, she fortified herself still further by high alliances: and her son,
Mahommed Allee, was affianced to the daughter of Rokun-od Dowla, brother of the late King;
and her daughter, Zeenut-on Nissa, to Moomtaz-od Dowla, the prince of whom I am writing. These
two marriages were celebrated at a cost of about thirty lacs of rupees; Dolaree was declared
the first consort of the King, under the title of "Mulika Zamanee," queen of the age, and received
an estate in land yielding six lacs of rupees a-year for pin-money. Not satisfied with this,
she prevailed upon the King to declare her son, Mahommed Allee, alias Kywan Ja, to be his own
and eldest son, and heir-apparent to the throne; and to demand his recognition as such from
the British Government, through its representative, the Resident. His Majesty, with great solemnity,
assured the Resident, on many occasions during November and December, 1827, that Kywan Ja was
his eldest son; and told him that had he not been so, his uncle would never have consented
to bestow his daughter upon him in marriage, nor should he himself have consented to expend
twenty lacs of rupees in the ceremonies. The Resident told him that the universal impression
at Lucknow was, that the boy was three years of age when his mother was first introduced to
his Majesty. But this had no effect; and, to remove all further doubts and discussions on the
subject, he wrote a letter himself to the Governor-General, earnestly protesting that Kywan
Ja was his eldest son and heir-apparent to the throne; and as such he was sent from Lucknow
to Cawnpoor to meet and escort over Lord Combermere in December, 1827.

On the birth of Moonna Jan, the then King, Ghazee-od Deen Hyder, declared to the Resident that
the boy was not his grandson, and that his son, Nuseer-od Deen, pretended that he was his son
merely to please his imperious mother, the Padshah Begum, and to annoy his father, with whom
they were both on bad terms. Ghazee-od Deen had, however, before his death declared that he
believed Moonna Jan to be his grandson.* In February, 1832, the King, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder,
first through the minister, and then in person, assured the Resident that neither of the boys
was his son, and requested that he would report the same to his Government, and assure the
Governor-General "that both reports, as to these boys being sons of his, were false, and arose
from the same cause, bribery and ambition, that Mulika Zumanee had paid many lacs of rupees
to influential people about him to persuade him to call her son his, and declare him heir-apparent
to the throne; and that Fazl Allee and Sookcheyn had done the same to induce others to persuade
him to acknowledge Moonna Jan to be his son. But, said his Majesty, I know positively that
he is not my son, and my father knew the same."

[* I believe that Ghazee-od Deen's first repudiation of Moonna Jan arose entirely from a desire
to revenge himself upon his termagant wife, whose furious temper left him no peace. She was,
from his birth, very fond of the boy; and to question his legitimacy was to wound her in her
tenderest point. This was the "raw" which her husband established, and which his son and successor
afterwards worked upon.]

The wary minister then, to clench the matter, remarked that his Majesty had mentioned to him
that he had ceased to cohabit with Moonna Jan's mother for twenty-four months before the boy
was born; and the King assured the Resident that this was quite true. Hakeem Mehndee was as
anxious as Aga Meer had been to keep the King estranged from his imperious mother, and the
only sure way was to make him persist in repudiating the boy or postponing his claim to the
succession.

Mulika Zumanee's influence over the king had, however, been eclipsed, first, by Miss Walters,
Mokuddera Ouleea, whose history has already been given; secondly, by the beautiful Taj Mahal;
and, thirdly, by the Kuduseea Begum. She entered the palace as a waiting-woman to Mulika Zumanee,
and, on the 17th of December, 1831, the King married her; and from that day till her death,
on the 21st of August, 1834, she reigned supreme in the palace and in the King's affections.

On the King's paying a visit of ceremony to Mulika Zumanee one evening, he asked for water,
and it was brought to him in a gold cup, on a silver tray, by the Kuduseea Begum, then one
of the women in waiting. Her face was partially unveiled; and the King, after drinking, threw
the last few drops from the cup over her veil in play. In return, she threw the few drops that
had been spilled on the salver upon the King's robe, or vest. He pretended to be angry, and
asked her, with a frown, how she could dare to besprinkle her sovereign; she replied--"When
children play together there is no distinction between the prince and the peasant." The King
was charmed with her half-veiled beauty and spirit, and he paid a second visit the next day,
and again asked for water. He did the same as the first day, and she returned the compliment
in the same way. He came a third time and asked for water, but Mulika Zumanee had become alarmed,
and it was presented by another and less dangerous person. A few days after, however, the Queen
was constrained to allow her fair attendant to attend the King, and receive from him formal
proposals of marriage, which she accepted.

She was handsome and generous; but there was no discrimination in her bounty, and she is said
to have received from the King nearly two millions of money out of the reserved treasury for
pin-money alone. Of this she saved forty-four lacs of rupees. The King never touched this money,
and it formed, in a separate apartment, the greater part of the seventy lacs found in his reserved
treasury on his death, out of the ten krores or ten millions sterling, which he found there
when he ascended the throne in 1827.

She is said to have been the only one of his wives who ever had any real affection for the
King. She was haughty and imperious in her temper; and the only female, who had any influence
over her, was a Mogulanee, who taught her to read and write. She assisted her mistress very
diligently in spending her pin-money, and made the fortunes of sundry of her relations. Altercations
between the Kuduseea Begum and the King were not uncommon; but, on the 21st of August, 1834,
the King became unusually excited, and told her that he had raised her from bondage to the
throne, and could as easily cast her back into the same vile condition. Her proud spirit could
not brook this, and she instantly swallowed arsenic. The King relented, and every remedy was
tried, but in vain. The King watched over her agonies till she was about to expire, when he
fled in a frantic state and took refuge in the apartments of the race-stand, about three miles
from the palace, till the funeral ceremonies were over. It is said, that in her anxiety to
give birth to an heir to the throne, she got the husband, from whom she had been divorced,
smuggled into her apartments in the palace in a female dress more than once; and that this
was reported to the King, and became the real cause of the dispute.

The Mogulanee attendant, who had accumulated twenty lacs of rupees, was seized and commanded
to disgorge. She offered five lacs to Court favourites on condition that they saw her safely
over the river Ganges into British territory. The most grave of them were commissioned to wait
upon his Majesty, and entreat him most earnestly to banish her forthwith from his territories,
as she was known, in the first place, to be one of the most potent sorceresses in India; and,
in the next, to have been exceedingly attached to her late mistress: that they had strong grounds
to believe that it was her intention to send his Majesty's spirit after hers, that they might
be united in the next world us they had been in this. The King got angry, and said, that he
had no dread of sorceresses, and would make the old lady disgorge her twenty lacs. That very
night, however, in his sleep, he saw the Kuduseea Begum enter his room, approach his bed, look
upon him with a countenance still more kind and bright than in life, and then return slowly
with her face still towards him, and beckoning him with her hand to follow! As soon as he awoke
he became greatly agitated and alarmed, and ordered the old sorceress to be sent forthwith
across the Ganges to Cawnpoor. She paid her five lacs, and took off about fifteen; but what
became of her afterwards I have not heard.

One of the first cases that I had to decide, after taking charge of my office, was that of
a claim to five Government notes of twenty thousand rupees each, left by Sultan Mahal, one
of the late King, Amjud Allee Shah's, widows. The claimants were the reigning King, and the
mother, brother, and sister of the deceased widow. She was the daughter of a greengrocer, and,
in February 1846, at the age of sixteen, she went to the palace with vegetables. The King saw
and fell in love with her; and she forthwith became one of his wives, under the name of "Sultan
Mahal." In November, 1846, the King invested eighteen lacs and thirty thousand rupees in Government
notes as a provision for his wives and other female relations. The notes were to be made out
in their names respectively; and the interest was to be paid to them and their heirs. Of this
sum, Sultan Mahal was to have one hundred thousand; and, on the 21st of November, she drew
the interest, in anticipation, up to the 30th of December of that year. The five notes for
twenty thousand each, in her name, were received in the Resident's Treasury on the 20th of
April, 1847. On the 28th of August, she sent an application for the Notes to the Resident,
but died the next day. The King, her husband, had died on the 18th February, 1847.

Nine days after, on the 6th of September, the new King, Wajid Allee Shah, sent an application
to have these five notes transferred to one of his own wives; urging, that, as his father and
the Sultan Mahal had both died, he alone ought to be considered as the heir. It was decided,
that the mother, sister, and brother were the rightful heirs to the Sultan Mahal; and the amount
was distributed among them according to Mahommedan law. The question was, however, submitted
to Government at his Majesty's request; and the decision of the Resident was upheld on the
ground that the notes were in the lady's name, and she had actually drawn interest on them;
and, as she died intestate, they became the property of her heirs. To Mulika Zumanee, ten thousand
a-month; to her daughter, Zeenut-on Nissa, four thousand; to Mokuddera Ouleea (Miss Walters),
six thousand; and to Taj Mahal, six thousand: total, twenty-six thousand rupees a-month. On
the death of Mulika Zamanee, which took place on the 22nd December, 1843, her daughter succeeded
to her pension of six thousand a-month.

The other portion of her pension--four thousand rupees a-month--went to her grandson, Wuzeer
Mirza, the son of Kywan Ja, who had died on the 16th of May, 1838, before his mother.* Of this
four thousand a- month, one thousand are given to Zeenut-on Nissa for the boy's subsistence
and education, and three thousand a-month are invested in Government securities, to be paid
to him when he comes of age. But, besides the six thousand rupees a-month which she inherits
from her mother, Zeenut-on Nissa enjoys the pension of four thousand rupees a- month, which
was assigned to her by the King in the same deed; so that she now draws eleven thousand rupees
a-month, independent of her husband's income.** By this deed the stipends are to descend to
the heirs of the pensioners, if they have any; and if they have none, they can bequeath their
pensions to whom they please. Should they have no heirs, and leave no will, the stipends are
to go to the moojtahids and moojawurs, or presiding priests of the shrine of kurbala, in Turkish
Arabia, for distribution among the needy pilgrims.

[* Wuzeer Mirza is not the son of Rokun-od Dowla's daughter. Kywan Ja's marriage with that
lady was never consummated.]

[** She takes after her mother, and makes her worthy husband very miserable. She is ill-tempered,
haughty, and profligate.]

An European lady, who visited the zunana of the King, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, on the anniversary
of his coronation, on the 18th of October, 1828, writes thus to a female friend:--"But the
present King's wives were superbly dressed, and looked like creatures of the Arabian Tales.
Indeed, one (Taj Mahal) was so beautiful, that I could think of nothing but Lalla Rookh in
her bridal attire. I never saw any one so lovely, either black or white. Her features were
perfect, and such eyes and eye-lashes I never, beheld before. She is the favourite Queen at
present, and has only been married a month or two, her age, about fourteen; and such a little
creature, with the smallest hands and feet, and the most timid, modest look imaginable. You
would have been charmed with her, she was so graceful and fawn-like. Her dress was of gold
and scarlet brocade, and her hair was literally strewed with pearls, which hung down upon her
neck in long single strings, terminating in large pearls, which mixed with and hung as low
as her hair, which was curled on each side her head in long ringlets, like Charles the Second's
beauties. On her forehead she wore a small gold circlet, from which depended and hung, half
way down, large pearls interspersed with emeralds. Above this was a paradise plume, from which
strings of pearls were carried over the head, as we turn our hair. Her earrings were immense
gold rings, with pearls and emeralds suspended all round in large strings, the pearls increasing
in size. She had a nose ring also with large round pearls and emeralds; and her necklaces,
&c., were too numerous to be described. She wore long sleeves, open at the elbow; and her dress
was a full petticoat with a tight body attached, and open only at the throat. She had several
persons to bear her train when she walked; and her women stood behind her couch to arrange
her head-dress, when, in moving, her pearls got entangled in the immense robe of scarlet and
gold she had thrown around her. This beautiful creature is the envy of all the other wives,
and the favourite at present of both the King and his mother, both of whom have given her titles--See
Mrs. Park's Wandering, vol. i., page 87. Taj Mahal still lives and enjoys a pension of six
thousand rupees a-month, under the guarantee of the British Government. She became very profligate
after the King's death; and after she had given birth to one child, it was deemed necessary
to place a guard over her to prevent her dishonouring the memory of the King, her husband,
any further by giving birth to more."

Of Miss Walters, alias Mokuddera Ouleea, the same lady writes:--"The other newly-made Queen
is nearly European, but not a whit fairer than Taj Mahal. She is, in my opinion, plain; but
she is considered by the native ladies very handsome, and she was the King's favourite before
he saw Taj Mahal. She was more splendidly dressed than even Taj Mahal. Her head-dress was a
coronet of diamonds, with a fine crescent and plume of the same. She is the daughter of a European
merchant, and is accomplished for an inhabitant of a zunana, as she writes and speaks Persian
fluently, as well as Hindoostanee; and it is said that she is teaching the King English, though
when we spoke to her in English, she said she had forgotten it, and could not reply. She was,
I fancy, afraid of the Queen Dowager, as she evidently understood us; and when asked if she
liked being in the zunana, she shook her head and looked quite melancholy. Jealousy of the
new favourite, however, appeared to be the cause of her discontent, as, though they sat on
the same couch, they never addressed each other."

Of Mulika Zumanee, the same lady says:--"The mother of the King's children, Mulika Zumanee,
did not visit us at the Queen Dowager's; but we went to see her at her own palace. She is,
after all, the person of the most political consequence, being the mother of the heir-apparent;
and she has great power over her royal husband, whose ears she boxes occasionally."

When in February, 1832, the King, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, assured the Resident that Moonna Jan
was not his son. Lord William Bentinck was Governor-General of India. A more thoroughly honest
man never, I believe, presided over the government of any country. The question of right to
succession was long maturely and most anxiously considered, after these repeated and formal
repudiations on the part of the King, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder; and Government would willingly
have deferred a final decision on so important a question longer, but it was deemed unsafe
any longer from the debauched habits of the King, the chance of his sudden death, and the risk
of a tumult in such a city, to leave the representative of the paramount power unprepared to
proclaim its will in favour of the rightful heir, the moment that a demise took place. Under
these considerations, instructions were sent to the Resident, on the 15th of December, 1833,
in case of the King's death without a son, or pregnant consort, to declare the eldest surviving
brother of the late King, Ghazee-od Deen Hyder, heir to the throne, and have him placed upon
it. According to the law already noticed (which applies as well to sovereignty as to property)
the sons of Shums-od Dowlah, the second son of Saadut Allee Khan, who had died shortly before
his eldest and reigning brother, Ghazee-od Deen, were excluded from all claims to the succession,
and the right devolved upon the third son of Saadut Allee, Nuseer-od Dowlah. Ghazee-od Deen
had only one son, the reigning sovereign, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder.

This prince had impaired his constitution by drinking and other vicious indulgences, in which
he had been encouraged in early life by his designing or inconsiderate adoptive mother, the
Padshah Begum; but for some time before his death, he used frequently to declare to his most
intimate companions that he felt sure he should die of poison, and that at no distant period.
He for some time before his death had a small well in the palace, over which he kept his own
lock and key; and he kept the same over the jar, in which he drew the water from it for his
own drinking. The keys were suspended by a gold chain around his neck. The persons who gave
him his drink, except when taking it out of English sealed bottles, were two sisters, Dhuneea
and Dulwee. The latter and youngest is now the wife of Wasee Allee Khan. The eldest, Dhuneea,
still resides at Lucknow. The general impression at Lucknow and over all Oude was, that the
British Government would, take upon itself the management of the country on the death, without
issue, of Nuseer-od Deen Hyder; and the King himself latterly seemed rather pleased than otherwise
at the thought that he should be the last of the Oude kings. He had repudiated his own son,
and was unwilling that any other member of the family should fill his place. The minister and
the other public officers and Court favourites, who had made large fortunes, wished it, as
it was understood by some, that by such a measure they would be secured from all scrutiny into
their accounts, and enabled to keep securely all that they had accumulated.

About half-past eleven, on the night of the 7th July, 1837, the Durbar Wakeel, Gholam Yaheea,*
came to the Resident and reported that the King had been taken suddenly ill, and appeared to
be either dead or in a dying state, from the symptoms described to him by his Majesty's attendants.
The Resident, Colonel Low, ordered his two Assistants, Captains Paton and Shakespear, the Head
Moonshee and Head Clerk, to be in attendance, and wrote to request the Brigadier, commanding
the troops in Oude, to hold one thousand men in readiness to march to the Residency at a moment's
notice. The Residency is situated in the city near the Furra Buksh Palace, in which the King
resided. The Resident intended that five companies of this force should be sent in advance
of the main body and guns, for the purpose of placing, sentries over the palace gates, treasuries,
and other places containing valuables within the walls. But this intention was not unfortunately
made known to the Brigadier. Captain Magness, who commanded a corps of infantry with six guns,
and a squadron of horse, had been ordered by the minister at half-past eight o'clock, to proceed
with them to a place near the southern entrance of the palace, and there to wait for further
instructions, and he did so. This was three hours before the minister made any report to the
Resident of the King's illness, and Captain Magness was told by the people in attendance that
the King was either dead or dying.

[* Gholam Yaheea Khan was the maternal uncle of Shurf-od Dowlah, who was, afterwards, some
time minister under Mahommed Allee Shah.]

Having given these orders, the Resident proceeded to the palace, attended by Captain Paton,
the first Assistant, and Dr. Stevenson, the Residency Surgeon. They found the King lying dead
upon his bed, but his body was still warm, and Dr. Stevenson opened a vein in one arm. Blood
flowed freely from it, but no other sign of life could be discovered. His features were placid
and betrayed no sign of his having suffered any pain; and the servants in attendance declared
that the only sign of suffering they had heard or seen was a slight shriek, to which the King
gave utterance before he expired; that after that shriek he neither moved, spoke, nor showed
any sign whatever of life. His Majesty had been unwell for three weeks, but no one had any
apprehension of danger from his symptoms. He had called for some sherbet a short time before
his death, and it was given to him by Dhuneea, the eldest of the two sisters.

The Resident took with him a guard of sipahees from his escort, and Captain Paton distributed
them as double sentries at the inner doors of the palace, and outside the chief buildings and
store-rooms, with orders to allow no one but the ministers and treasurers to pass. Captain
Madness had placed one sentry before at each of these places, and he now added a second, making
a party of four sipahees at each post. Captain Paton at the same time, in conjunction with
the officers of the Court, placed seals on all the jewels and other valuables belonging to
the King and his establishments; and as the night was very dark, placed torch-bearers at all
places where they appeared to be required.

Having made these arrangements the Resident returned with Dr. Stevenson to the Residency, leaving
Captain Paton at the palace; and wrote to the Brigadier to request that he would send off the
five companies in advance to the palace direct, and bring down all his disposable troops, including
artillery, to the city. The distance from the palace to the cantonments, round by the old stone
bridge, was about four miles and half. The iron bridge, which shortens the distance by a mile
and half, had not then been thrown over the Goomtee river, which flows between them. The Resident
then had drawn up, for the consent of the new king, a Persian paper, declaring that he was
prepared to sign any new treaty for the better government of the country that the British Government
might think proper to propose to him.

It was now one o'clock in the morning of the 8th of July, and Captain Shakespear, attended
by the Meer Moonshee, Iltufat Hoseyn, and the Durbar Wakeel, proceeded to the house of the
new sovereign, Nuseer-od Dowlah, who then resided where the present King now resides, a distance
of about a mile from the Residency. The visit was altogether unexpected; and, as the new sovereign
had been for some time ill, some delay took place in arranging for the reception of the mission.
After explaining the object of his visit. Captain Shakespear presented the paper, which the
King perused with great attention, and then signed without hesitation. Captain Shakespear returned
with it to the Resident, who repaired again to the palace, and sent Captain Paton, the first
Assistant, to the Residency, to proceed thence with Captain Shakespear and the Durbar Wakeel,
to the house of the new sovereign, and escort him to the palace, where he would be in readiness
to receive him. He arrived about three o'clock in the morning, and being infirm from age, and
exceedingly reduced from recent illness, he was, after a short conversation with the Resident,
left in a small adjoining room, to repose for a few hours preparatory to his being placed on
the throne and crowned in due form. His eldest surviving son, afterwards Amjud Allee Shah,
his sons, the present King, Wajid Allee Shah, and Mirza Jawad Khan, the King's foster brother,
Hummeed-od Dowlah, and his confidential servant, Rufeek-od Dowla, were left in the room with
him; and the Resident and his Assistants sat in the verandah facing the river Goomtee, which
flows under the walls, conversing on the ceremonies to be observed at the approaching coronation,
and the persons to be invited to assist at it, when they were suddenly interrupted by the intelligence
that the Padshah Begum, the adoptive mother of the late King, with a large armed force, and
the young pretender, Moonna Jan, were coming on to seize upon the throne, and might soon be
expected at the principal entrance to the palace to the north-west.

When the Resident was about to proceed to the palace, the first time about midnight, he was
assured by the minister, Roshun-od Dowla, that every possible precaution had been taken by
him to prevent the Padshah Begum from attempting any such enterprise, or from leaving her residence
with the young pretender; that he had placed strong bodies of troops in every street or road
by which she could come. But, to make more sure, and prevent her leaving her residence at the
Almas gardens, five miles from the palace, the Resident sent off one of his chobdars, Khoda
Buksh, with two troopers and a verbal message, enjoining her to remain quietly at her palace.
These men found her with her equipage in the midst of a large mass of armed followers, ready
to set out for the palace. They delivered their message from the Resident, but were sent back
with her Wakeel, Mirza Allee, to request that she might be permitted to look upon the dead
body of the late King, since she had not been permitted to see him for so long a period before
his death. But they reached the Resident with this message, only ten minutes before the Begum's
troops were thundering for admittance at the gate. The Resident gave the chobdar a note for
the officer in command of the five companies, supposed to be in advance on their way down from
cantonments; but before he could get with this note five hundred yards from the palace, he
met the Begum and her disorderly band filling the road and pressing on as fast as they could.
Unable to proceed, he returned to the palace with all haste, and gave the Resident the first
notice of their near approach. Captain Magness had placed two of his six guns at each of the
three entrances to the south and west, but was now ordered to collect all, and proceed to the
north-western entrance, towards which the Begum was advancing. Before he could get to that
entrance she had passed in, and he returned to the south-western entrance for further orders.

On passing the mausoleum of Asuf-od Dowlah, where the Kotwal or head police officer of the
city resided, she summoned him, with all his available police, to attend his sovereign to the
throne of his ancestors. He promised obedience, but, with all his police, stood aloof, thinking
that her side might not be the safe one to take in such an emergency. A little further on she
passed Hussun Bagh, the residence of the chief consort of the late King and niece of the emperor
of Delhi, and summoned and brought her on, to give some countenance to her audacious enterprise.
The Resident admonished the minister for his negligence and falsehood in the assurance he had
given him; and directed Rajah Bukhtawur Sing, with his squadron of one hundred and fifty horse,
and Mozuffer-od Dowlah, the father of Ajum-od Dowlah, and Khadim Hoseyn, the son-in-law of
Sobhan Allee Khan, the deputy minister, with all the armed men they could muster, to arrest
the progress of the pretender; but nothing whatever was done, and the excited mass came on,
and augmented as it came in noise and numbers. All whom the Resident sent to check them, out
of fear or favour, avoided collision, and sought safety either in their homes or among the
pretender's bands.

Captain Paton, as soon as he heard the pretender's' men approach, rushed to the gate to the
north-west, towards which the throng was approaching rapidly. He had only four belted attendants
with him, and the gate was guarded only by a small party of useless sipahees, under the control
of three or four black slaves. By the time he had roused the sleepy guard and closed the gates,
the pretender's armed mass came up, and with foul abuse, imprecations, and with threats of
instant death to all who opposed them, demanded admittance. Captain Paton told them, that the
Resident had been directed by the British Government to place Nuseer-od Dowlah, the uncle of
the late King, on the throne as the rightful heir; that he was now in the palace, and all who
opposed him would be treated as rebels; that the gates were all closed by order of the Resident,
and all who attempted to force them would be put to death. All was in vain. They told him with
fury that the Padshah Begum, and the son of the late King, and rightful heir to the throne,
were among them, and must be instantly admitted. Captain Paton despatched a messenger to the
Resident to say, that he could hold the gate no longer without troops: but before he could
get a reply, the insurgents brought up an elephant to force in the gate with his head. The
first failed in the attempt, and drew back with a frightful roar. A second, urged on by a furious
driver, broke in the gate, one-half fell with a crash to the ground, and the elephant plunged
in after it. Captain Paton was standing with his back against this half, and must have been
killed; but Mukun, one of his chuprassies, seeing the gate giving way, caught him by the arm
and dragged him behind the other half. The other three chuprassies ran off in a fright and
hid themselves. Two of them were Surubdawun Sing and Juggurnath, two brothers, who will be
mentioned elsewhere in this diary.*

[* See Juggurnath chuprassie in Chapter V., Vol. II.]

The furious and confused mass rushed in through the half-opened gate, and beat Captain Paton
to the ground with their bludgeons, the hilts of their swords, and the butt-ends of their muskets.
Mukun, chuprassie, his only remaining attendant, was beaten down at the same time and severely
bruised, but he soon got up, covered with blood, made his way out through the crowd, and ran
to meet the five companies of the 35th Regiment, then not far distant, under Colonel Monteath.
As soon as he heard from Mukun the state in which he had left his master, he sent on a party
of thirty sipahees under Captain Cowley, with orders to make all possible haste to the rescue.
They arrived in time to save his life from the fury of the assailants, but found him insensible
from his wounds.

In a few minutes every court-yard within the palace walls was filled with the armed and disorderly
mass. The Resident, Captain Shakespear, and their few attendants, tried to stop them by every
impediment they could throw in their way, but in vain. The assailants rushed past or over them,
brandishing their swords and firelocks, with loud shoutings and flaming torches, and soon filled
all the apartments of the palace, save those occupied by the ladies and their female attendants,
and the dead body of the late King. The Resident and his Assistant, and the Meer Moonshee,
were soon separated from the new sovereign and his small party, who lay for some time concealed
in the small room in which he had been left to repose, while they were confined to the northern
verandah overlooking the river, and the long room leading into it. The armed and furious throng
filled all the other rooms of the palace, the court-yard, eighty yards long, leading to the
baraduree (or summer-house) and all the four great halls of that building, in one of which
the throne stood.

The Resident felt that he was helpless in his present position, and unable to do anything whatever
to prevent the temporary triumph of the insurgents, and the consequent tumult, pillage, and
loss of life that must follow; and that it would be better to try any change than to remain
in that helpless state. He thought that he might, if he could once reach the Begum, be able
to persuade her of the impossibility of her ultimately succeeding in her attempt to keep the
pretender on the throne; and if not, that it would be of advantage to get so much nearer to
the place where the British troops most soon arrive, and be drawn up in a garden to the south
of the baraduree, and to gain time for their arrival by a personal and open conference with
the Begum, during which he thought her followers would not be likely to proceed to violence
against his person, and those of his attendants. He therefore persuaded one of the rebel sentries
placed over him to apprize the Begum that he wished to speak to her. She sent to him Mirza
Allee, one of her Wakeels; and with him Captain Shakespear, and the Meer Moonshee, he forced
his way through the dense crowd, and got safely into the baraduree.

They found all the four halls, small apartments, and verandahs, leading into them, filled with
armed men in a state of great excitement, and in the act of placing the pretender, Moonna Jan,
on the throne. The Begum sat in a covered palankeen at the foot of the throne; and as the Resident
entered, the band struck up "God save the King," answered by a salute of blunderbusses within,
and a double royal salute from the guns in the "jullooknana," or northern court-yard of the
palace through which the Begun had passed in. Other guns, which had been collected in the confusion
to salute somebody (though those who commanded and served them knew not whom), continued the
salute through the streets without. A party of dancing-girls, belonging to the late King, or
brought up by the Begum, began to dance and sing as loud as they could at the end of the long
hall in front of the throne, at the same time that the crowd within and without shouted their
congratulations at the top of their voices, and every man who had a sword, spear, musket, or
matchlock, flourished it in the air amidst a thousand torches. A scene more strange and wild
it would be difficult to conceive.

In the midst of all this the Resident and his Assistants remained cool under all kinds of foul
abuse and threats from a multitude so excited, that they seemed more like demons than human
beings, and resolved to force them to commit some act or make use of some expression that might
seem to justify their murder. They fired muskets close to their ears, pointed others loaded
and cocked close to their breasts and faces, flourished swords close to their noses, called
them all kinds of opprobrious names, but all in vain. The Resident, in the midst of all this
confusion, pointed out to the Begum the impossibility of her ultimately succeeding in her attempt
to secure the throne for the pretender, since he was acting under the orders of his Government,
who had declared the right to be another's; and if he and all his Assistants were killed, his
Government would soon send others to carry out their orders. "I am," she said, "in my right
place, and so is the young King, my grandson, and so are you. Why do you talk to me or to anybody
else of leaving the throne and the baraduree?" But some of her furious followers, afraid that
she might yield, seized him by his neckcloth, dragged him towards the throne, on which the
boy sat, and commanded him to present his offerings of congratulation on the threat of instant
death. They had, they said, placed him on the throne of his ancestors by order of the Begum,
and would maintain him there. Had he or either of his Assistants lost their temper or presence
of mind, and attempted to resent any of the affronts offered to them, they must have been all
instantly put to death, and a general massacre of all their supposed adherents, and the pillage
of the palace and city, would have followed.

The Begum's Wakeel, Mirza Allee, seeing the life of the Resident and those of his Assistants
and attendants in such imminent peril, since he so resolutely refused to give any sign whatever
of recognition to the pretender, and aware of the consequences that would inevitably follow
their murder, seized him by the arm, and in a loud voice shouted out that it was the Begum's
order that he should conduct him out into the garden to the south. He pushed on with him through
the crowd, followed by all his small party, and with great difficulty and danger they at last
reached the garden, where Colonel Monteath had just brought in and drawn up his five companies
in a line facing the baraduree. Finding the entrance to the north-west occupied by the Begum's
party. Colonel Monteath marched along the street to the west of the palace, and entered the
baraduree garden by the south-west gate. As the Resident went out. Colonel Roberts, who commanded
a brigade in the Oude service, went in, and presented to the pretender his offering of gold
mohurs, and then went off and hid himself, to wait the result of the contest. Captain Magness
drew up his men and guns on the left of Colonel Monteath's, and was told to prepare for action.
He told the Resident that he did not feel quite sure of his men in such a crisis, and the line
of British sipahees was made to cover his rear, to secure them. The King and minister had commanded
him to act precisely as directed by the Resident, and he himself knew this to be his only safe
course, but the hearts of his men were with Moonna Jan and the Begum.

The Begum, as soon as the Resident left her, deeming all safe, went over to the female apartments,
where her adopted son, the late king, lay dead; and after gazing for a minute upon his corpse,
returned to the foot of the throne, on which the pretender had now been seated for more than
three hours. It was manifest that nothing but force could now remove the boy and his supporters,
but the Begum tried to gain more time in the hope of support from a popular insurrection from
without, which might take off the British troops from the garden; and she sent evasive messages
to the Resident by her wakeels, urging him to come once more to her, since it was impossible
for her to make her way to him without danger of collision between the troops of the two States.
He refused to put himself again in her power, and commanded her to come down with the boy to
him and surrender; and promised that if she did so, and directed all her armed followers to
quit the palace and city of Lucknow, all that had passed should be forgiven, and the large
pension of fifteen thousand rupees a-month, promised by the late King, secured to her for life.
All was in vain, and the Begum was gaining her object. Robberies of State property in the eastern
and more retired parts of the palace-buildings had commenced. Gold, jewels, shawls, &c., to
a large amount were being carried off. Much of such property lay about in places not guarded
by Captain Paton in the morning, or known to the minister, or other respectable servants of
the State, all holding out temptation to pillage. Acts of plunder and ill-treatment to unoffending
and respectable persons in the city were every moment reported, and six or eight houses had
been already pillaged, and attempts had been made on others by small parties, who were every
moment increasing in numbers and ferocity.

Several parties of the King's troops had openly deserted their posts and joined the pretender's
followers in the baraduree, and dense masses of armed men were crowding in upon the British
troops, whose officer became anxious, and urged the Resident to action, lest they should no
longer have room to use their arms. At one time these armed crowds got within two yards of
the British front; and on Colonel Monteath's telling them to retire a few paces and leave him
a clear front, they did so in a sullen and insolent manner, and one of them actually attempted
to seize one of the sipahees by his whiskers, and an affray was with difficulty prevented.

Mostufa Khan, Kundaharee, who had command of a regiment of a thousand horse in the late King's
service, was with many others commanded by the Begum to attend the young King on the throne;
and he did so some time after Brigadier Johnstone reached the garden, in front of the baraduree,
though he knew that Nuseer-od Dowlah had been declared the rightful heir to the throne, and
was actually in the palace. He said that "he was the servant of the throne; that the young
King was actually seated upon it, and that he would support him there, happen what might."
He presented his offerings of gold to the young King, and was forthwith appointed to supersede
all the other wakeels in the Begum's negotiations with the Resident. He merely repeated what
the other wakeels had said, urging the Resident to go up to the Begum, since she could not
come down to him. The Resident repeated to him what he had told the Begum herself, and taking
out his watch, told him that unless his orders were obeyed in less than one-quarter of an hour,
the guns should open upon the throne-room; that when once they opened, neither she nor her
followers could expect favour, or even mercy; and unless he, Mostapha Khan, separated himself
from her party, he should be hung as a traitor if taken alive.

Owing to the height of some houses and walls about the left part of the position of the British
troops, the guns could not be conveniently brought to bear upon the south-western corner of
the baraduree and throne-room, and two of the guns had to be taken round by a road one-third
of a mile, to be placed in a better position. On seeing this the crowd shouted out, "The cravens
are already running away!" and became more insolent and furious than ever.

The minister and Durbar Wakeel had been swept away by the crowd, who rushed into the palace,
and separated from the Resident and his party, and as they passed through the balcony overlooking
the river, the wakeel threw off his turban, and leaped over from a height of about twenty feet.
The ground was soft, but he sprained both his ankles. He was taken up by some boatmen, who
had put-to near the bank, and concealed in their boat till the affair was over. The new sovereign
remained still unnoticed, and apparently unknown, having long led a secluded life; but his
son, grandsons, and the rest of his attendants were at last discovered, very roughly treated
by the insurgents, and would, it is said, have been put to death, had not Rajah Bukhtawur Sing
and some others, who thought it safe to be on friendly terms with the ruffians, persuaded them
that they would be useful hostages in case of a reverse. The minister had had all his clothes,
save his trousers, torn from him, and his arms and legs pinioned preparatory to execution,
and the princes had been treated with little more ceremony. All had given themselves up for lost.

The Begum remained firm to her purpose, her hopes from without increasing with the increasing
noise, tumult, and reports of pillage in the city. The quarter of an hour had passed, and the
Resident, turning to the Brigadier, told him, that the work was now in his hands, just an hour
and twenty minutes after he had brought his troops into the garden. The guns from the British,
and Captain Magness' parks opened at the same instant upon the throne-room and the other halls
of the baraduree with grape; and after six or seven rounds, a party of the 35th Regiment, under
Major Marshall, was ordered to storm the halls. With muskets loaded and bayonets fixed they
rushed first through a narrow covered passage; then up a steep flight of steps, and then into
the throne-room, firing upon the affrighted crowd as they advanced, and following them up with
the bayonet as they rushed out over the two flights of steps on the north side, and through
the courtyard which separates the baraduree from the palace. Other parties of sipahees ascended
at the same time over ladders collected at the suggestion of Doctor Stevenson, and placed on
the southern front of the baraduree; and the halls were soon cleared of the insurgents, who
left from forty to fifty men killed and wounded on the floors of the four halls.* In this assault
Mostufa Khan, Kundaharee, was killed. Moonna Jan was found concealed in a small recess under
the throne, and the Begum in a small adjoining room, to which she had been carried as soon
as the guns opened. They were taken into custody, and sent to the Residency, with Imam Buksh,
a bihishtee, or water-carrier, a notorious villain, who had been her chief instigator in all
this affair, and appointed Commander-in-Chief to the young King. Many who had been wounded
got out of the halls, and some even reached their homes, but the killed and wounded are supposed
to have amounted altogether to about one hundred and twenty. The Begum and the boy were accommodated
in the Residency, and their Commander-in-Chief was made over to the King's Courts for trial.
He is still in prison at Lucknow. No one was killed on our side, but three or four of our sipahees
were wounded in the assault.

[* As they entered the hall at the end opposite the throne, they saw their own figures reflected
in the large mirror, which stands behind the throne; and, taking them to be their enemy preparing
to charge, they poured their first volley into the mirror, by which many lives were saved at
the expense of the glass.]

The Delhi princess, the chief consort of the deceased King, a modest, beautiful, and amiable
young woman, who had been forced to join the Begum, in order to give some countenance to the
daring enterprise, was, as soon as the guns opened, carried by her two female attendants in
her litter to a small side-room, facing the palace at the east end of the throne-room. One
of these females had her arm shattered by grape shot, but the other tied some clothes together,
and let the princess and her wounded attendant down from a height of about twenty-four feet
into a court-yard, whence they were conveyed to her palace by some of her attendants, and all
three escaped. The sipahees occupied both of the flights of steps in the northern face of the
baraduree. She was afraid, to trust herself to them, and saw no other way of escape than that
described.

It was nine o'clock before the palace could be cleared of the insurgents; and the Resident
was very anxious that the new Sovereign should be crowned, as soon and as publicly as possible,
in order to restore tranquillity to the city, which had become greatly disturbed from the number
of loose and desperate characters that always abound in it, and are at all times ready to make
the most of any tumult that may arise from whatever cause. The new Sovereign had become greatly
agitated and alarmed at the danger to which he and his family had been so long exposed, and
at the fearful scene which they witnessed at the close; and the Resident exerted himself to
soothe and prepare him for the long and tedious ceremonies of the coronation, while the killed
and wounded were being removed and the throne-room and the other halls of the baraduree cleaned
out and properly arranged and furnished. When all was ready the Resident conducted him from
the palace through the court-yard to the baraduree, accompanied by the brigadier and all the
principal officers of the British force and the Court, seated him on the throne, placed the
crown on his head, under a royal salute, repeated from every battery in the city, and proclaimed
him King of Oude, in presence of all the aristocracy and principal persons of Lucknow, who
had flocked to the place on hearing that the danger had passed away.

From the time that the Resident discovered that the King was dead, till the arrival of the
five companies under Colonel Monteath, the whole of the British force in this vast city, containing
a population of nearly a million persons, amounted to only two companies and a half of sipahees
under native officers. One of the companies guarded the Resident's Treasury, one constituted
the honorary guard of the Resident, and the half company guarded the gaol. A part of the honorary
guard, with as many sipahees as could be safely spared from the Treasury and gaol, were taken
by Captain Paton to the palace, and distributed as already mentioned. They all stood nobly
to their posts during the long and trying scene, and no attempt was made to concentrate them
for the purpose of arresting the tumultuous advance of the Begum's forces. Collectively they
would have been too few for the purpose, and it was deemed unsafe to remove them from their
respective charges at such a time. The Resident relied upon the minister's repeated assurances
that he had taken all necessary precautions to prevent her approach; upon the two companies,
called the Khas companies, under the command of Mujd-od Dowlah; and the squadron of one hundred
and fifty horse, under Rajah Bukhtawur Sing, whom he had himself ordered to guard the passage
by which they entered. Of all these men not one was employed for the purpose. They and their
Commanders all stood aloof, and left the British soldiers to their fate.

The minister was a fool, under the tutelage of his deputy, Sobhan Allee Khan, a great knave,
who disappeared as soon as he heard that the Begum was approaching with his son-in-law, Khadim
Hoseyn. Mozuffer Allee Khan, a person in high office and confidence under the late King, did
the same. The minister and the Durbar Wakeel were the only officers of the State of Oude who
stood by the new King and the British Resident. The minister afterwards declared that a strong
detachment of troops had been placed outside the gate through which the Begum ultimately forced
her way, as well as at the other passages leading to the palace and baraduree; and Captain
Shakespear, on his way to the new Sovereign, ascertained that guards had actually been posted
outside all the other gates leading to the palace and baraduree. From this, the supineness
and seeming apathy of many of the palace guards and servants, and the perversion of the orders
sent by him before and during the tumult, the minister concluded that there must have been
many about him interested in promoting the enterprise of the Begum; and that the approach to
the gate through which she forced her way must have been purposely left unguarded. There is
now little doubt, that from the time that it became known, that the contest was between Moonna
Jan and Nuseer-od Dowlah, a person but little known except as a prudent and parsimonious old
man, a large portion not only of the civil and military establishments, but of the population
of the city, felt anxious for the success of the Begum's enterprise; for both had, under the
harsh treatment of the last two sovereigns, become objects of sympathy.

A good many of the members of the royal family, who were brought up from childhood with the
deceased King, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, and near his person to the last, declare that Moonna Jan
was his son; but that the King was ashamed and afraid to acknowledge him after he had so frequently
and so formally declared to the British Government that he was not his son, and that he had
ceased to cohabit with the boy's mother for two years before his birth. But all such persons
admit that Moonna Jan was a boy of ungovernable temper, and the worst possible dispositions;
and that he must soon have forfeited the crown by his cruelty, bigotry, and injustice, had
he been placed upon it by the British Government. I saw him in January 1838, at Chunar, and
a more unpromising boy I have rarely seen.

The ministry dreaded being called to account for their malversations as much from the Begum,
on account of their successful efforts to keep the King alienated from her and his son, as
from Nuseer-od Dowlah, on account of his parsimony, prudence, and great experience in business
during the reign of his able father, Saadut Allee Khan. But they would have a better chance
of escape from the Begum and the boy than from the vigilant old man, who afterwards made them
all disgorge their ill-gotten wealth; and, in consequence, they made no effort to obstruct
her enterprise. The military and civil establishments were all in favour of the boy, who would
probably be as regardless of their number and discipline as his father had been, while the
old man would assuredly reduce the one, and endeavour, by rigorous measures, to improve the
other. Hardly any one at Lucknow at present doubts that the minister and his associates caused
the King to be poisoned, and employed Duljeet and the two sisters; Dhunneea and Dulwee, for
the purpose, in expectation that the British Government would take upon itself the Oude administration,
as the only possible means of improving it.

The respectable and peaceable portion of the city, though their sympathies were with the boy,
had too much in property, and the honour of their families, at stake to aid in any movement
in his favour, since it would involve a tumult, and for a time, at least, insure the supremacy
of the mob. Their security and that of their families depended upon the success of the British
troops; and they were all prepared to acquiesce in any cause which the British Government might
adopt for the sake of order. They would rather that it should adopt that of the Begum and the
boy than that of Nuseer-od Dowlah; but in either case were resolved to remain neuter, and let
the representative of the British Government take his own course.

It is a fact not unworthy of remark, that more than three millions sterling, or three crores
of rupees, in our Government securities, are held by persons who reside and spend the interest
arising from them in the city of Lucknow; and that the fall in their value in exchange during
the times that we have been engaged in our most serious wars has been less in Lucknow than
in Calcutta, the capital of British India; so much greater assurance do the people feel of
our resources being always equal to our exigencies. At such times the merchants of Lucknow
commission their agents in Calcutta to purchase up Government securities at the rate to which
they fall in Calcutta, for sale at Lucknow, where they seldom fall at all. About three crores
and half of rupees, or three millions and half sterling, have been at different times contributed
to our loans by the sovereigns of Oude as a provision for the different members of their respective
families and dependents; and the interest is now paid to them and their descendants, at the
rates which prevailed at the time of the several loans (four, five, and six per cent.) to the
amount of fourteen lacs thirty-five thousand and four hundred and ten rupees a- year.

The Begum's haughty and violent temper, and inveterate disposition to meddle in public affairs,
were the real cause of her continual disquietude and ultimate disgrace and ruin. The minister
of the day dreaded the ascendancy of so imperious and furious a character, should she ever
become reconciled to the King. During the whole reign of Ghazee-od Deen, her husband, from
the 12th of July 1814, to the 20th of October 1827, her own frequent ebullitions, which often
disfigured the King's robes and vests, and left even the hair on his head and chin unsafe,
and Aga Meer's sagacious suggestions, satisfied him that his own personal safety and peace
of mind, and the welfare of the State, depended upon his keeping as much as possible aloof
from her. He was fond of his son, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, but during his minority he always took
the part of his adoptive mother, the Padshah Begum; and, in consequence, remained almost as
much as she was alienated from the King, his father. His natural mother died soon after his
birth; and people suspected that the Padshah Begum had her put to death that she might have
no rival in his affections; and she had an entire ascendancy over him, acquired by every species
of enervating indulgences; and he remained all his life utterly without character, ignorant
of the rudiments of public affairs, and altogether incapable of taking any useful part in them.

She retained this ascendancy over him for some time after he became King, first from habit
and affection, and latterly from the fears with which she continued to inspire him, that she
could, by her disclosures, whenever she pleased, prevail upon the British Government to set
him aside in favour of some other member of the royal family, as the Buhoo Begum of Fyzabad
had set aside Wuzeer Allee. She made him dismiss his father's minister, Aga Meer, with disgrace,
and confer the seals on Fuzl Allee, the nephew of her favourite waiting-woman, Fyzon Nissa;
but when the shrewd and sagacious Hakeem Mehndee became minister three years after, he soon
persuaded the young King, that all fears of his adoptive mother's disclosures or wishes were
idle, and that nothing which she could do or say would induce the British Government to disturb
his possession of the sovereignty of Oude. He is said to have been the first person who ventured
to hint to him the murder of his natural mother by the Padshah Begum; and he was, or pretended
to be, violently shocked and grieved. He then built a splendid tomb or cenotaph for her; and
endowed it with the means for maintaining pious men to read the Koran in it, and attendants
of all kinds to keep it in a condition suitable for the mother of a King. He shuddered, or
pretended to shudder, at the mention of the name of the Padshah Begum, as the most atrocious
of murderesses. The minister of the day always made it a point to bring the reigning favourite
of the seraglio over to his views, by giving her a due share of the profits and patronage of
his office; and it was for this reason, that the high-born chief consort, whose influence over
the King could not be so purchased, was soon made to retire from the palace, and, ever after,
to live separated from her husband.

The Padshah Begum had only one child, a daughter, who was united in marriage to Mehndee Allee
Khan, by whom she had three children, Mohsen-od Dowlah, who was married to the daughter of
Nuseer-od Dowlah, the new King; and two daughters who were married to Mirza Abool Kasim, and
Mirza Aboo Torab. They lost their mother while yet children, and the Padshah Begum brought
them up and became much attached to them. They had all from childhood been brought up with
Nuseer-od Deen, and were all much attached to him and to each other. The ministers, fearing
that this attachment might possibly lead to a reconciliation between the King and his adoptive
mother, and to their ruin, left him and her no peace till, to save them, she forbade them her
house, and sent the girls to their husbands, and the boy to his father-in-law, Nuseer-od Dowlah,
whose succession to the throne of Oude has been here described. All objects of mutual interest
and affection were in this manner carefully excluded from attendance on either, till they showed
themselves to be entirely subservient to the minister of the day.*

[* The mother always declared, and her two daughters and son all declare, Moonna Jan to have
been the son of Nuseer-od Deen, and exactly like him in person, voice, and temper. But he was
indulged by the Padshah Begum in each habits of atrocious cruelties to other children, that
he soon became detested by all around him but herself and the boy's natural mother, Afzul-mahal.]

Thus alienated from her son, all her affections were transferred to her grandson, Moonna Jan,
and there is too much reason to believe, that in both cases she purposely did her best to prevent
their ever becoming men of business, in order that she might have the guidance of public affairs
in her own hands when they should be called to the throne.

The Resident accommodated the Begum, the boy, and her two female attendants in apartments at
the Residency, and had a guard placed over them. The new King told him, "that the Begum was
the most wicked and unscrupulous woman he had ever known, and that he could expect no peace
at Lucknow while she remained." He promised to consult his Government as to her disposal, and
on returning to the Residency he increased that guard to two companies of Native Infantry,
and all remained quiet when he made his report to Government on the 9th. But towards the close
of that day, the city became again agitated. Reports prevailed, that Government was to be consulted
as to whether they preferred the rights of Moonna Jan to the throne or those of Nuseer-od Dowlah;
that the Begum's adherents were ready at her call to fall upon the Resident and his party,
and put them all to death, or to attack the apartments in which she was confined, rescue her
and the boy from prison, and place him again on the throne. The Court favourites of the late
King, and all the public military and civil establishments in the city, dreaded the rigid economy
and strict supervision of the new King, who had conducted the duties of the ministry for some
time, under his able and vigilant father, Saadut Allee Khan; and all that numerous class who
benefit by the lavish expenditure of a thoughtless and profligate Court were equally anxious
to have the Government in the hands of an extravagant woman and thoughtless boy, and ready
to join and incur some risk in supporting their cause.

Under all these circumstances the Resident determined to send the Begum and her boy out of
Oude as soon as possible. At midnight on the 11th, a detachment of three companies of Infantry,
under Major Lane of the 2nd Regiment, marched from Cawnpore and arrived at Newulgunge, midway
to Lucknow, a distance of twenty-two miles, in the morning of the 12th, with one troop of cavalry.
Another troop proceeded to Onow, the first stage from Cawnpore, and a third to Rahmutgunge,
the second stage, to relieve the first on their return. At each of these stages, relays of
sixty palankeen-bearers and six torch-bearers were placed by the Post-Master at Cawnpore. As
the bridge over the Ganges at Cawnpore had been washed away by the flood, a company of Native
Infantry was placed on the Oude side of that river, to hold boats in readiness, and assist
in escorting over the party when they came. About the same time, at midnight, the Begum, her
boy, and two of her female attendants were placed in palankeens and sent off from the Residency
under the escort of a regiment of Infantry, and a detail of artillery, attended by the Second
Assistant, Captain Shakespear.

They marched without resting through one of the hottest days of the year, and the party reached
Cawnpore in safety about half-past nine o'clock in the evening of the 12th, and were securely
lodged in apartments prepared for them at the custom-house. So well had things been arranged
between the Resident and Brigadier commanding the troops in Oude, and the Major-General commanding
the Division at Cawnpore, that very few persons at Lucknow knew that the Begum and her party
had left the Residency when she passed the Ganges at Cawnpore. The three companies under Major
Lane, who had marched twenty-two miles in the morning, kept pace with the palankeens all the
way back, making a march of forty-four miles, between midnight of the 11th, and half-past nine
in the evening of the 12th, in so hot a day.

The Begum and Moonna Jan were sent off with their attendants to the fort of Chunar, where they
were lodged as state prisoners. As it became safe, the restrictions to which they were at first
subjected became by degrees relaxed, and they were permitted to enjoy all the freedom and comforts
compatible with their safe keeping. Both died at Chunar, Moonna Jan some time before the Begum.
He left three sons by two slave-girls at Chunar, and they still reside there, supported by
a small stipend of three hundred rupees a-month from the Oude Government, under the protection
of the commandant of the garrison, and the guardianship of Afzul mahal, the mother of the late
Moonna Jan.

All these circumstances, as they occurred, were reported by the Resident to the Government
of India, who took time to deliberate, and did not reply till the 19th of July 1837, when they
signified their approval of all that the Resident had done, with the exception of the written
declaration to which he had obtained the consent and signature of the new King. They did not
think that it would be considered dignified or becoming the paramount power, to exact such
a declaration, binding himself to absolute submission, from the sovereign of a country so much
under their control, on ascending a throne to which he was called as of right; and were of
opinion that his character as a prudent man of business, well trained to public affairs, during
the time he acted as minister under his father, rendered such a declaration unnecessary. It
was therefore annulled; and the Governor-General, Lord Auckland, addressed a letter to his
Majesty expressing, in kind terms, his congratulations on his accession to the throne, and
his hopes of a better administration of the Government of Oude under his auspicious guidance.
This letter, despatched by express, the Resident received on the 25th of July.

The Resident concluded, on good grounds, that the Government deemed a new and more stringent
treaty indispensable for the better government of the country, and that advantage should be
taken of the occasion to prepare the new King for it. Government desired, that the negotiations
for a new treaty should be based "upon reason and right, and not upon demand and submission."
Had the declaration been allowed to stand good, there would have been right as well as reason
in the treaty of 1837, which was soon after concluded.

The Resident intimated the receipt of these letters to the King, and on the 28th, he waited
on his Majesty, to present the Governor- General's letter. He found him sitting up in his bed
in a small apartment in the baraduree, in his dishabille, having spent a restless night from
rheumatic pains; but he was cheerful and in good spirits, and requested the Resident to present
his respectful compliments to the Governor-General, and grateful thanks for his consideration
and congratulations. All his relations, the chief officers of the Government, and other persons
of distinction about the Court, were assembled to hear the letters read, and make their offerings
on this recognition of his authority by the paramount power. "The King assured the Resident,
that the arrival of this recognition, and its public announcement, would greatly strengthen
his hands in the exercise of public duties, for during the last few days bad reports had been
industriously circulated by evil-disposed persons to the effect, that the delay in the recognition
of his succession to the throne by the paramount power in India, had arisen from discussions
between the members of the Government in Calcutta, as to the amount of money to be taken on
the occasion from the new King, as the price of his sudden elevation; and that no letter was
to be presented by the Resident until the money was paid, or security given for its punctual
payment; that the Governor-General himself wanted two crores of rupees, but some members of
the Government would be satisfied with a crore and half each, and others even with one crore
each, provided that these sums were paid forthwith." In relating this story, which the Resident
had heard from many others within the last few days, the King observed, "that he was too well
acquainted with the character for honour and justice of the Honourable Company's Government,
to give the slightest credit to such scandal, the more especially since no demand of the kind
had been made on the accession of either of the last two Kings, who were known to be rich,
while he was equally well known to be poor; but that nothing but the arrival of this despatch
confirming him on the throne, could convince many, even well-disposed persons, of the utter
groundlessness of such wicked rumours; that many poor but respectable persons, who had been
weak enough to believe such rumours, would feel much relieved when they heard the salutes which
were now being fired, for they had apprehended, that they might be severe sufferers by being
compelled to contribute their own property, in order to enable him to make up the peshkush,
or tribute, required by the British Government, since the late King had squandered the ten
crores, which he found in the treasury on the death of his father."

It is certain, that a great portion of the population of Lucknow expected that some such demand
would be made by the British Government from the new sovereign, since his right to the throne
could be disputed, not only by Moonna Jan, the supposed son of the late King, but by the undoubted
sons of Shums-od Dowlah, the elder brother of the present King, whose rights were barred only
by that peculiar feature of the Mahommedan law elsewhere adverted to in this Diary. Every day
of delay, in promulgating the final orders of the Supreme Government, tended to add to this
number; and by the time that these final orders came, by far the greater portion of the city
were of the same opinion. The fears of the people tended to add to their numbers, and give
strength to the opinion, for all knew, that there was but little left in the reserved treasury,
that the expenses greatly exceeded the annual revenue, and that the troops and establishments
were all greatly in arrear; and all believed that a general contribution would have to be levied
to meet the demand when it came.*

[* Nuseer-od Dowlah reigned under the title of Mahommed Allee Shah, from the 8th of July, 1837,
to the 16th of May, 1842. Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, his predecessor, had reigned from the 20th
of October, 1827, to the 7th of July, 1837. He, Nuseer-od Deen, found in the treasury, when
he ascended the throne, ten crores of rupees, or ten millions sterling. He left in the treasury,
when he died, only seventy lacs of rupees, including the fifty-three lacs left by the Koduseea
Begum. His son, Wajid Allee Shah, has reigned from the 13th of February, 1847.]

The assertion, on the part of the late King, that he had ceased to cohabit with Afzul mahal,
the mother of Moonna Jan, for two years, or even for six months before his birth, is now known
to have been utterly false, and known at the time to be so by his mother, the Padshah Begum;
with whom they both lived. Afzul-mahal, though of humble birth and pretensions, maintained
a fair reputation among those who knew her best in a profligate palace, and has continued to
maintain the same up to the present day in adversity. In prison and up to the hour of her death,
which took place some time after that of Moonna Jan himself, the old Begum declared that she
had seen the boy born, and had never lost sight of him; and that the story of his not being
the son of Nuseer-od Deen, was got up to prevent her ever becoming reconciled to the King through
the means of his son; and her extraordinary affection for him never diminished while he lived.
When she retired from the palace of Nuseer-od Deen to her new residence of Almas Bagh, she
kept fast hold of the boy, and would never let him out of her sight till they entered the prison
at Chunar, when they were obliged to occupy separate apartments. Up to his death she watched
over him with the tenderest care; and always declared to the European officers placed over
her, that the boy's father and mother always resided with her up to the time of his birth.
The boy was remarkably like Nuseer-od Deen in form and features, as well as in temper and disposition.

Afzul-mahal was a person of great good sense and prudence, and in all things trusted by the
old Begum, who before her death executed a formal will, leaving to her the charge of Moonna
Jan's three children, and all the establishments; and since the death of the old lady she has
executed the trust conscientiously, and with great economy; and with much difficulty managed
to maintain all in respectability upon the small stipend of three hundred rupees a- month,
allowed for their support by the King of Oude. In this, she has been very much impeded and
annoyed by the two slave-girls, the mothers of Moonna Jan's children, who have been always
striving to get this stipend into their own hands, that they may share it with their paramours.
At the death of the old lady most of her female companions and attendants refused to return
to Lucknow, and remained at Chunar with Afzul-mahal and the children; and all have to be subsisted
out of this small stipend. The slave-girls urge, that they might have had separate pensions,
had they obeyed the orders to return to Lucknow on the death of the Begum, and that they ought
not now to share in the stipend of the children. Five or six of the females were ladies of
rank, and one of them, who died lately, was a widow of Saadut Allee Khan.

This pension may be discontinued when the boys become of age, or appropriated by them and their
mothers for their own exclusive use, and the Government of Oude should be required to assign
pensions for life to Afzul mahal, and the other females who are now supported from it.

The salary of the prime minister, during the five years that Roshun- od Dowlah held the office,
was twenty-five thousand rupees a-month, or three lacs a-year, and over and above this, he
had five per cent. upon the actual revenue, which made above six lacs a-year. His son, as Commander-in-Chief,
drew five thousand rupees a-month, though he did no duty--his first wife drew five thousand
rupees a-month, and his second wife drew three thousand rupees a-month, total eighty- eight
thousand rupees a-month, or ten lacs and fifty-six thousand rupees a-year. These were the avowed
allowances which the family received from the public treasury. The perquisites of office gave
them some five lacs of rupees a-year more, making full fifteen lacs a-year.

Roshun-od Dowlah held office for only three months, under the new sovereign, Mahommed Allee
Shah. He was then superseded by Hakeem Mahndee, thrown into prison, and made to pay twenty
lacs to the treasury, and two lacs in gratuities to Court favourites. After paying these sums,
he was permitted to go and reside at Cawnpore; but his houses in the city, valued at three
lacs, were afterwards confiscated by the present King, on the ground of unpaid balances. He
took into keeping Dulwee, the younger of the two sisters; but she was afterwards seduced away
from him by one of his creatures, a consummate knave, Wasee Allee, whose wife she now is. Dhunneea,
the eldest sister, is still residing at Lucknow. Roshun-od Dowlah's first wife took off with
her more than three lacs of rupees in our Government securities, and his son, the Commander-in-Chief,
took off eight lacs of rupees in the same securities. Roshun-od Dowlah carried off a large
sum himself. She and his son afterwards left him, and now reside in comfort upon the interest
of these securities at Futtehgur, while he lives at Cawnpore in poor circumstances.

Sobhan Allee, his deputy, was made to pay to the treasury seven lacs of rupees, and in gratuities
to court favourites five lacs more. Roshun-od Dowlah was one of the principal members of the
old aristocracy of Lucknow, and connected remotely with the royal family; and he got off more
easily in consequence, compared with his means, than his deputy, who had no such advantages,
and was known to have been the minister's guide in all things, though he would never consent
to hold any ostensible and responsible office.

Duljeet, a creature of Roshun-od Dowlah's, and prime favourite of the late King, carried off,
while the King lay dead, money and jewels to the value of one lac of rupees, and concealed
them in a vault at Constantia. His associates, not satisfied with what he gave them, betrayed
him. The money and jewels were discovered and brought back, and he was made to pay another
lac of rupees to the treasury as a fine. Dhunneea, the eldest of the two sisters, was made
to disgorge two lacs of rupees. Many other favourites of the late King were fined in the same way.

The King had, in the case of Ghalib Jung, already described in this Diary, declared his resolution
of looking more closely into his accounts in future, and punishing all transgressors in the
same way; and Roshun-od Dowlah often expressed to the Resident his apprehensions that his turn
to suffer must soon come. Sobhan Allee Khan had much stronger grounds to fear, since he had
made himself utterly detested by the people generally, and had neither friends nor connexions
in the royal family or aristocracy of Lucknow. Under the strong and general impression that
the British Government was determined to interpose, and take upon itself the administration
of the country, and that the King himself wished the independent sovereignty of Oude to terminate
with his reign, they most earnestly desired his early death as their only chance of escape.
The British Government would not, they knew, make them refund any of their ill- gotten wealth
without full judicial proof of their peculations, and this proof they knew could never be obtained.
Indeed they were satisfied that our Government, aware of the difficulty of finding such proof,
and occupied in forming and working a new system, would not trouble themselves to seek for
it; and that they should all be left to reside where they chose, and enjoy freely the fruits
of their malversation.

The Resident had kept the instructions of the 15th of December, 1832, from the supreme Government,
a profound secret, lest they might lead to intrigue and disturbance, and, above all, to the
poisoning of many innocent persons who might be considered to have a claim of right to the
throne; and all were surprised and confounded when it was announced that the paramount power
had already decided in favour of Nuseer-od Dowlah, whose claims had never been thought of by
the people, or apprehended by the ministers. The instant they heard this decision, they dreaded
the scrutiny of the sagacious and parsimonious old man, and the enmity of the favourites by
whom he had been surrounded in private life. These men, whom they had, in their pride and power,
despised and insulted, would now have their revenge; and they wished for the success of the
old woman and the boy, from whom they might have a better chance of escape, till they could
get their wealth and their families out of the country.

I may here mention a similar repudiation of a supposed eldest son by the late King. Mostafa
Allee was brought up in the palace as his eldest son, and on all occasions treated as such.
Mahommed Allee Shah, the late King's father, was always very fond of him, but shortly before
his death he became angry with him for some outrages committed in the palace, and put him under
restraint. The young man requested the late King, his supposed father, to mediate with his
grandfather for his release. He refused to do so, and the young man drew his sword, and threatened
to kill him. He was kept under more strict restraint till the grandfather died, and his father
ascended the throne, on the 16th of May, 1842. The King then requested the Resident to assure
the Governor-General that Mostafa Allee was not his son--that he was a year and a-half old
when his mother entered the palace. The Resident reported accordingly on the 26th of that month.
The Governor-General required the statement to be made under the King's own sign and seal,
and it was transmitted on the 6th of June, 1842. The present King was then declared heir-apparent
to the throne, and Mostafa Allee has ever since been in strict confinement under him. The general
impression, however, is that he was the eldest son of the late King, and repudiated solely
on account of his violent temper and turbulent conduct. That he was treated as such during
the life of Mahommed Allee Shah, and that the late King dared not repudiate him while his father
lived, is certain.

By the treaty of 1801 we bound ourselves to defend the territories of the sovereign of Oude
from all foreign and domestic enemies; and to defray the cost of maintaining the troops required
for this purpose, and paying some pensions at Furruckabad and Benares, the sovereign of Oude
ceded to our Government the under-mentioned districts, then yielding the revenues specified
opposite their respective names.*

* Districts ceded by Oude to the British Government by the treaty of 1801.

Etawa, Korah, Kurra -    -    -    -    -   55,48,577  11  9
Rehur and others    -    -    -    -    -    5,33,374   0  6
Furruckabad    -    -    -    -    -    -    4,50,001   0  6
Khyreegurh, and Kunchunpore   -    -    -    2,10,001   0  0
Azimgurh, Mounal, and Benjun  -    -    -    6,95,624   7  6
Goruckpore     -    -    -  5,09,853   8  0
Botwul    -    -    -    -    40,001   0  0  5,49,854   8  0
Allahabad and others-    -    -    -    -    9,34,963   1  3
Bareilly, Moradabad, Bijnore, Budown,
    Pilibheet, and Shahjehanpore  -    -    43,13,457  11  3
Nawabgunge, Rehlee, &c. -    -    -    -     1,19,242  12  0
Mohowl and others, with exception of
    Jaulluk Arwu   -    -    -    -    -     1,68,378   4  0

                           Total  -    -  1,35,23,474   8  3

                           Deduct

Nawabgunge    -    -    - 1,19,242  12  0 Khyreegurh    -    -    - 2,10,001   0  0    3,29,243
12  0

                           Total  -    -  1,31,94,230  12  3

                           Add

Handeea or Kewae   -    -    -    -    -     1,52,905   0  0

                           Total  -    -  1,33,47,135  12  3

Present Revenues of the Territories we hold from Oude under the treaty of 1801, according to
the Revised Statistical Return of the Districts of the North-West Provinces for 1846-47, prepared
in 1848, A.D.

                    |Land Revenue | Abkaree  |Stamp for | Total for
              |  1846-47.   |   for    | 1846-47. |  1846-47.
                    |             | 1846-47. |          |
 ||||
                    |             |          |          |
Rohilcund ..  .. .. |  64,44,341  | 2,47,854 | 2,04,576 |   68,96,771
Allahabad, including|             |          |          |
  Handeea alias   |  21,29,551  | 1,41,409 |   61,802 |   23,32,762
     Kewae          |             |          |          |
Furruckabad   .. .. |  13,57,544  |   88,061 |   49,698 |   14,95,303
Mynpooree ..  .. .. |  12,33,901  |   24,822 |   20,484 |   12,79,207
Etawa ..  ..  .. .. |  12,80,596  |   19,647 |   10,355 |   13,10,598
Goruckpore..  .. .. |  20,80,296  | 2,10,045 |   96,549 |   23,86,890
Azimgurh, including |             |          |          |
  Mahoul  ..  .. .. |  14,89,887  |   81,257 |   53,925 |   16,25,069
Cawnpore  ..  .. .. |  21,51,155  | 1,26,155 |   57,406 |   23,34,700
Futtehpore..  .. .. |  14,25,431  |   60,370 |   21,063 |   15,06,864
                    ||||
       Total  .. .. |1,95,92,686  | 9,99,620 | 5,75,858 | 2,11,68,164
||||

** The lands are the same with the exception of Khyreegurh, Nawabgunge ceded since, and Handeea
received; but the names are altered.

Khyreegurh and Kunchunpore were re-ceded to the Oude sovereign in the treaty of the 11th of
May, 1816, with the Turae lands, taken from Nepaul, between Khyreegurh and Goruckpore, in liquidation
of the loan of one crore of rupees. In the same treaty, Handeea (alias Kewae) was ceded by
Oude to the British Government, in lieu of Nawabgunge, which was made over to the Oude sovereign
by the British Government. Handeea, or Kewae, now in the Allahabad district, yielded land revenue,
for 1846-47, rupees one lac, fifty-two thousand, and nine hundred and five.

The British Government retained the power to station the British troops in such parts of the
Oude territories as might appear to it most expedient; and the Oude sovereign bound himself
to dismiss all his troops, save four battalions of infantry, one battalion of Nujeebs and Mewaties,
two thousand horsemen, and three hundred golundages, or artillerymen, with such numbers of
armed peons as might be deemed necessary for the purpose of collecting the revenue, and a few
horsemen and nujeebs to attend the persons of the amils. It is declared that the territories
ceded, being in lieu of all former subsidies and of all expenses on account of the Honourable
Company's defensive establishments with his Excellency the sovereign of Oude, no demand whatever
shall be made upon his territory on account of expenses which the Honourable Company may incur
by assembling forces to repel the attack, or menaced attack, of a foreign enemy; on account
of the detachment attached to his person; on account of troops which may be occasionally furnished
for suppressing rebellions or disorders in his territories; on account of any future charge
of military stations; or on account of failures in the resources of the ceded districts, arising
from unfavourable seasons, the calamities of war, or any other cause whatever.

The Honourable Company guarantees to him and to his heirs and successors, the possession of
the territories which remain to him after the above cessions, together with the exercise of
his and their authority within the said dominions; and the sovereign of Oude engages to establish,
in his reserved dominions, such a system of administration, to be carried into effect by his
own officers, as shall be conducive to the prosperity of his subjects, and calculated to secure
the lives and property of the inhabitants; and to advise with, and act in conformity to the
counsel of, the officers of the British Government.

In the time of Asuf-od Dowlah, who died on the 21st September, 1797, the military force of
Oude amounted to eighty thousand men of all arms, and in the direct pay of Government. Saadut
Allee Khan, his brother and successor, on the conclusion of the above treaty, and the transfer
of half his territory, reduced the number to thirty thousand.

Relying entirely upon the efficiency of British troops to defend him against external and internal
enemies, and to suppress rebellion and disorder, he laboured assiduously to reduce his expenditure
within the income arising from the reserved half of his dominions. He resumed almost all the
rent-free lands which had been granted with a lavish hand by his predecessor, and paid off
and discharged all superfluous civil and military establishments, and, by his prudence and
economy, he so reduced his expenditure within the income, that on his death on the 12th of
July, 1814, he left fourteen millions sterling, or fourteen crores of rupees, in a treasury
which he found empty when he entered upon the government in 1797. In this sum were included
the confiscations of the estates of some favourites of his predecessors, Asuf-od Dowlah and
Wuzeer Allee, who had grown rich upon bribery and frauds of all kinds. He never confiscated
the estates of any good and faithful servants, who left lawful heirs to their property.

He had been freely aided by British troops, according to the stipulations of the treaty of
1801; but the British Government had been made sensible, on several occasions, of the difficulty
of fulfilling its engagements with the sovereign with a due regard to the rights and interests
of his subjects. Saadnt Allee Khan was a man of great general ability, had mixed much in the
society of British officers in different parts of India, had been well trained to habits of
business, understood thoroughly the character, institutions, and requirements of his people,
and, above all, was a sound judge of the relative merits and capacities of the men from whom
he had to select his officers, and a vigilant supervisor of their actions. This discernment
and discrimination of character, and vigilant supervision, served him through life; and the
men who served him ably and honestly always felt confident in his protection and support. He
had a thorough knowledge of the rights and duties of his officers and subjects, and a strong
will to secure the one and enforce the other. To do so he knew that he must, with a strong
hand, keep down the large landed aristocracy, who were then, as they are now, very prone to
grasp at the possessions of their weaker neighbours, either by force or in collusion with local
authorities. In attempting this with the aid of British troops, some acts of oppression were,
no doubt, committed; and, as the sympathies of British officers were more with the landed aristocracy,
while his were more with the humbler classes of landholders and cultivators who required to
be protected from them, frequent misunderstandings arose, acts of just severity were made to
appear to be acts of wanton oppression, and such as were really oppressive were exaggerated
into unheard-of atrocities.

Our relations with the state of Oude, from the treaty of 1801 to the death of Saadut Allee,
were conducted by able men; but they had a very difficult task to perform in conducting them
to the satisfaction of both parties to that treaty; and when the Government devolved upon less
able and well-disposed sovereigns, ministers, and public officers, our Government and its representative
became less and less willing to comply with their requisitions for the aid of British troops
in the collection of the revenue, and the suppression of rebellion and disorder. Our Government
demanded, that the British Resident should be fully informed of the cause which led to the
resistance complained of to legitimate authority; and be fully satisfied of the justice and
necessity of such aid before he afforded it; and the sovereigns of Oude admitted the justice
of this demand on the part of the paramount power. But the Resident could never hear fully
and fairly both sides of the question, and the officers commanding the troops were seldom disposed
to do so; and neither was competent to pass a sound judgment upon the justice and necessity
of complying with the requisitions made for the aid of the British troops.

But when, under an imbecile and debauched sovereign, like Ghazee-od Deen, and an unscrupulous
minister, creatures and favourites began to share so largely in the revenues of the country,
this sort of scrutiny on the part of the Resident and officers commanding troops, employed
in aid of the King's officers, became exceedingly distasteful; and the minister gradually increased
the military force of Oude at his disposal, that he might do without it. During the last few
years of Ghazee-od Deen's reign, the Oude forces of all arms amounted to about sixty thousand
men. During the first few years of his successor's, Nuseer-od Deen's, reign, these forces were
augmented by the ministers for the sake of the profit and patronage they gave them; and in
the year 1837, the forces of all arms, paid from the treasury, amounted to more than sixty
thousand men. A memorandum given to the British Resident by the minister on the 8th of April
1837, showed the men of all descriptions, belonging to the Oude army, to amount to sixty-seven
thousand nine hundred and fifty-six. The artillery, cavalry, and infantry, composing what they
call the regular army, amounted to twenty thousand, all badly paid, clothed, armed, accoutred,
and disciplined; and for the most part placed under idle, incompetent, and corrupt commanders.
The rest were nujeebs employed in the provinces under local officers of the revenue and police,
and obliged to provide their own clothes, arms, accoutrements, and ammunition. They were altogether
without discipline.

Government, on the 26th November, 1824, informs the Resident, "that our troops are to be actively
and energetically employed in the Oude territory in cases of real internal commotion and disorder."
And again on the 22nd of July, 1825; Government condemns the Resident for his disregard of
the orders of the 26th of November, 1824, regarding the employment of British troops in Oude,
and states, "that it is sincerely disposed to maintain the rights of the King of Oude to the
fullest extent, as guaranteed to him by the treaty with his father, on the 20th of November,
1801; but observes, that upon the maturest consideration of articles 3rd, 5th, and 6th of that
treaty, and of Lord Wellesley's memorandum in 1802, of the final results of discussions between
him and Saadut Allee, whilst Government admits that, according to article the 3rd of the treaty,
we were bound to defend his Majesty's present territories 'against all foreign and domestic
enemies,' and that, in pursuance of the 4th article, the Company's troops are to be employed,
without expense to his Majesty, not only 'to repel the attack, or menaced attack, of a foreign
enemy,' but also for suppressing rebellion and disorder in his Majesty's territories; and that,
in a strict adherence to the 6th article, the King of Oude is entitled to exercise complete
sovereign authority within his own dominions, by a system of administration conducive to the
prosperity of his subjects, to be carried into effect by his own officers, with the advice
and counsel of the officers of the British Government (in conformity to which his Majesty is
expressly engaged to act); yet the Governor-General in council considered it to be indispensable
and inherent in the nature of our obligations, under the treaty referred to, that whenever
the King of Oude requires the aid of British troops, to quell any disturbance, or to enforce
any demand for revenue or otherwise, the British Government is clearly entitled, as well as
morally obliged, to satisfy itself by whatever means it may deem necessary, that the aid of
its troops is required in support of right and justice, and not to effectuate injustice and
extortion.

"This principle, which has often been declared and acted upon daring successive Governments,
must still be firmly asserted, and resolutely adhered to; and the Resident must consider it
to be a positive and indispensable obligation of his public duty, to refuse the aid of British
troops until he shall have satisfied himself, on good and sufficient grounds (to be reported
in each case as soon as practicable, and when the exigency of the case may admit of it, before
the troops are actually employed), that they are not to be employed but in support of just
and legitimate demands."

On the 13th of July, 1827, Government, in reply to the Resident's letter of the 30th May idem,
expresses "its surprise that, under the circumstances therein stated, he should have suffered
so long a period to elapse without adopting the most active and decided measures against a
subject of Oude, whose conduct is that of a public robber and rebel against the authority of
his Government; and whom the King has plainly stated that he is unable to reduce to subjection
without the aid of British troops."

On the 20th of January, 1831, the Governor-General, Lord William Bentinck, held a conference
with the King of Oude, and told his Majesty, in presence of his minister, that the state of
things in Oude, and maladministration in all departments, were such as to warrant and require
the authoritative interference of the British Government for their correction; that he declined
to make himself a party to the nomination of the minister, or to have it understood that the
measure was a joint resolution of the two governments, so that both should be responsible for
its success in effecting reformation; that the act was his Majesty's own, and the responsibility
must be his; that his Lordship hoped that a better system would be established by his minister's
agency, but if he failed, and the same abuses and misrule continued, the King must be prepared
to abide the consequences; that the Governor-General intended to make a strong representation
to the authorities in England on the state of misrule prevailing, and to solicit their sanction
to the adoption of specific measures, even to the length of assuming the direct administration
of the country, if the evils were not corrected in the interim.

In the letter from Government dated the 25th of August, 1831, referring to this advice, the
Resident is told that by treaty we are bound to give the aid of troops to quell internal resistance,
as well as to keep off external enemies, but by the same treaty the Oude Government is bound
to establish a good system of administration, and to conform to our advice in this respect;
that, finding it impossible to procure the establishment of such an improved system, and seeing
that our troops were liable to be made the instruments of violence, and vindictive and party
proceedings, it was determined to withhold the aid of troops except after investigation into
the cause which might lead to the application for them; that, by recent orders from the Court
of Directors, the Government would be authorised in withholding them altogether, in the hope
that the necessities of the Oude Government might compel a reform such as we might deem satisfactory;
that matters had not, however, been brought to such an issue, for the Oude Government having
been deprived of the services of British troops to execute its purposes, has entertained a
body stated at sixty thousand men, cavalry, infantry, and artillery, whereof forty-five thousand
are stationed in the interior for the special purpose of reducing refractory zumeendars without
British aid.

On the 15th of August, 1832, the Governor-General addressed a letter to his Majesty, the King
of Oude, in the last sentence of which he says, "I do not use this strong language of remonstrance
without manifest necessity. On former occasions the language of expostulation has been frequently
used towards you with reference to the abuses of your Government, and as yet nothing serious
has befallen you. I beseech you, however, not to suffer yourself to be deceived into a false
security. I might adduce sufficient proof that such security would be fallacious, but I am
unwilling to wound your Majesty's feelings, while the sincere friendship which I entertain
for you prevents my withholding from you that advice which I deem essential to the preservation
of your own dignity, and the prosperity of your kingdom."

The Resident is told that the allusion in the concluding sentence of his Lordship's letter
refers to Mysore; that the King had probably heard of our actual assumption of the government
of that country, and the Resident must avail himself of this topic to impress upon-his mind
the consequences which a similar state of things may entail upon himself.

On the 11th of September, 1837, a subsidiary-treaty was concluded with the new sovereign, Mahommed
Allee Shah, on the ground that though a larger force was kept up by the King of Oude than was
authorised by the treaty of 1801, still it was found inadequate to the duties that devolved
upon it, and it was therefore expedient to relax the restrictions as to the amount of military
force to be maintained by the King of Oude, on condition that an adequate portion of the increased
forces should be placed under British discipline and control. It was stipulated accordingly
that the King might employ such a military establishment as he might deem necessary for the
government of his dominion: that it should consist of not less than two regiments of cavalry,
five of infantry, and two companies of artillery; that the Government of Oude should fix the
sum of sixteen lacs of rupees a-year for the expenses of the force, including their pay, arms,
equipments, public buildings, &c.; that the expenditure on account of this force of all descriptions
should never exceed sixteen lacs; that the organization of this force should not commence till
eighteen months after the 1st of September, 1837; that the King should take into his service
an efficient number of British officers for the due discipline and efficiency of this force;
that this force should be fixed at such stations in Oude as might seem to both Governments,
from time to time, to be best, and employed on all occasions on which its services might be
deemed necessary by the King of Oude, with the concurrence of the Resident, but not in the
ordinary collections of the revenue; that the King should exert himself, in concert with the
Resident, to remedy the existing defects in his administration; and should he neglect to attend
to the advice and counsel of the British Government, or its representative, and should gross
and systematic oppression, anarchy, and misrule, at any time hereafter prevail within the Oude
territories, such as seriously to endanger the public tranquillity, the British Government
would have the right to appoint its own officers to the management of all portions of the Oude
territory in which such misrule might have occurred for so long a period as it might deem necessary,
the surplus receipts in such case, after defraying all charges, to be paid into the King's
treasury, and a true and faithful account rendered to his Majesty of the receipts and expenditure
of the territories so assumed; that should the Governor-General of India in Council be compelled
to resort to the exercise of this authority, he would endeavour, as far as possible, to maintain
(with such improvements as they might admit of) the native institutions and forms of administration
within the assumed territories, so as to facilitate the restoration of those territories to
the sovereign of Oude when the proper period of such restoration should arrive.

This treaty was ratified by the Governor-General in Council on the 18th of September, 1837,
but the Honourable the Court of Directors, with that anxious regard for strict justice which,
after long and varied experience, I have always found to characterise their views and orders,
disapproved of that part of the above treaty which imposed on the Oude state the expense of
the auxiliary force; and on the 8th of July, 1839, the King was informed, amidst great rejoicings,
that he was relieved from this burthen of sixteen lacs of rupees a-year, which the British
Government took upon itself. Only part of this auxiliary force had been raised when these orders
came, and only two regiments of infantry out of that part were retained, one stationed at Soltanpore,
and the other at Seetapore.

Up to 1835, the British forces in Oude amounted to two companies of artillery, with fourteen
guns, and six regiments of infantry. Early in that year (1835), four guns, with a proportion
of artillerymen, and one regiment of Native Infantry, were withdrawn, leaving the British force
in Oude one company and a-half of artillery, with ten guns, and five regiments of Native Infantry.
In 1837, when two infantry regiments of the auxiliary force had been raised, four guns more,
with a detail of artillery, and two regiments more of Native Infantry were withdrawn from the
two stations of Soltanpore and Seetapore, leaving the force paid by the British Government
one company of artillery, with six guns, stationed at Lucknow, three regiments of Native Infantry
at Lucknow, one regiment of the Oude auxiliary force stationed at Soltanpore, and the other
at Seetapore. There had been artillery and guns at Pertabgur, Soltanpore, Secrora and Seetapore,
and a regiment of regular cavalry at Pertabgur. In 1815 this regiment of cavalry was withdrawn
for the Nepaul war, and subsequently it was retained for the Mahratta war. It was sent back
to Pertabgur in 1820, but finally withdrawn in 1821. The British Government now maintains no
cavalry in any part of the King of Oude's dominions, and no artillery or guns at any place
but Lucknow.*

[* There is a small detachment of thirty sowars from an irregular corps attached to the Resident.]

In fairness there should be guns at Seetapore and Soltanpore, and a corps of regular or irregular
cavalry at Lucknow, or some other more convenient station. The stations of Secrora and Pertabgur
were done away with by general orders 28th January, 1835, when one regiment of Native Infantry
was withdrawn altogether from Oude, and one added to the two theretofore stationed at Lucknow.
In consequence of these arrangements, the British force in Oude is much less than it was when
the treaty of the 11th of September, 1837, was made, and assuredly less than it should be with
a due regard to our engagements and the Oude requirements. Our Government instead of taking
upon itself the additional burthen of sixteen lacs of rupees a-year to render the Oude Government
more efficient, has relieved itself of a good deal of that which it bore before the new treaty
was entered into, and this is certainly not what the Court of Directors contemplated, or the
Oude Government expected.

Our exigencies became great with the Affghan war, and have continued to be so from those wars
which grew out of it with Gwalior, Scinde, and the Punjab; but they have all now passed away,
and those of our humble ally should be no longer forgotten or disregarded. Though we seldom
give him the use of troops in support of the authority of his local officers, still the prestige
of having them at hand, in support of a just cause, is unquestionably of great advantage to
him and to his people, and this advantage we cannot withhold from him with a due regard to
the obligations of solemn treaties.

But in considering the rights which the sovereign of Oude has acquired by solemn treaties to
our support, we must not forget those which the five millions of people subject to his rule
have acquired by the same treaties to the protection of our Government, and it is a grave question,
that must soon be solved, whether we can any longer support the present sovereign and system
of government in Oude, without subjecting ourselves to the reproach of shamefully neglecting
the duties we owe to these millions.

The present King ascended the throne on the death of his father, on the 13th of February, 1847.
In a letter dated the 24th of July of that year, the Resident is told "that it will be his
Majesty's duty to establish such an administration, to be carried out by his own officers,
as shall insure the prosperity of the people; that any neglect of this essential principle
will be an infringement of treaty; and that the Governor-General must, in the performance of
his duty, require the King to fulfil his obligations to his subjects-- that his Majesty must
understand that, as a sovereign, he has duties to perform to, as well as claims to exact from,
the people committed to his care."

In the month of November in that year, the Governor-General. Lord Hardinge, visited Lucknow;
and in a conference held with the King, he caused a memorandum which he had drawn up for the
occasion to be read and carefully explained to his Majesty. It stated, "that in all our engagements
the utmost care had always been taken, not only to uphold the authority of native rulers, but
also to secure the just rights of the people subject to their rule; that the same principle
is maintained in the treaty of 1801 with Oude, in the sixth paragraph of which the engagement
is entered into 'for the establishment of such a system of government as shall be conducive
to the prosperity of the King's subjects, and calculated to secure to them their lives and
properties;' that in the memorandum of 1802, signed by the Governor- General, the King engages
to establish judicial tribunals for the free and pure administration of justice to all his
subjects; and that it is recorded in the sovereign's own hand in that document, 'let the Company's
officers assist in enforcing obedience to these tribunals;' that it is, therefore, evident
that in all these stipulations the same principle prevailed--namely, that while we engage to
maintain the prince in the full exercise of his powers, we also provide for the protection
of his people.

"That, in the more recent treaty of 1837, it is stated that the solemn and paramount obligation
provided by treaty for the prosperity of his Majesty's subjects, and the security of the lives
and property of the inhabitants, has been notoriously neglected by several successive rulers
in Oude, thereby exposing the British Government to the reproach of having imperfectly fulfilled
its obligations towards the Oude people; that his Lordship alludes to the treaty of 1837, as
confirming the original treaty of 1801, and not only giving the British Government the right
to interfere, but declaring it to be the intention of the Government to interfere, if necessary,
for the purpose of securing good government in Oude; that the King can, therefore, have no
doubt that the Governor-General is not only justified, but bound by his duty, to take care
that the stipulations provided by treaty shall be fairly and substantially carried into effect;
that if the Governor-General permits the continuation of any flagrant system of mismanagement
which by treaty he is empowered to correct, he becomes the participator in abuses which it
is his duty to redress; and in this case no ruler of Oude can expect the Governor-General to
incur a responsibility so repugnant to the principles of the British Government, and so odious
to the feelings of the British people.

"That, in the discussion of this important subject, advice and remonstrance have been frequently
tried, and have failed; that the Governor-General hopes that the King will exercise a sounder
judgment than those who have preceded him, and that he will not be compelled to exchange friendly
advice for imperative and absolute interference; that when the Governor-General, Lord William
Bentinck, had a conference with the former King, Nuseer-od Deen Hyder, on this subject, on
the 20th of January, 1831, he deemed it right frankly to inform him that if the warning which
he then gave was disregarded by his Majesty, it was his intention to submit to the home authorities
his advice that the British Government should assume the direct management of the Oude dominions;
that the Honourable the Court of Directors coincided in his Lordship's views and, in order
that no doubt may remain on the King's mind as to the sentiments of the home authorities on
this point, he, Lord Hardinge, here inserts an extract from the despatch of that Court, for
his information; that it is as follows:-- 'We have, after the most serious consideration, come
to the determination of granting to you the discretionary power which you have requested, from
us for placing the Oude territories under the direct management of officers of the British
Government; and you are hereby empowered, if no real and satisfactory improvement shall have
taken place in the administration of that country, and if your Government shall still adhere
to the opinion expressed in the minute of the Governor-General, to carry the proposed measure
into effect, at such period and in such manner as shall appear to you most desirable;' that
this resolution was communicated to the Resident and to the King, and advantage was taken of
it to press upon his Majesty the necessity of an immediate reform of his administration; that
the above extract will enable the King to form a clear judgment of the position in which the
sovereigns of Oude are placed by treaty; that the Governor-General is required, when gross
and systematic abuses prevail, to apply such a remedy as the exigency of the case may appear
to require--that he has no option in the performance of that duty.

"That by wisely taking timely measures for the reformation of abuses, as one of the first acts
of his reign, his Majesty will, with honour to his own character, rescue his people from their
present miserable condition; but if he procrastinates he will incur the risk of forcing the
British Government to interfere, by assuming the government of Oude; that the former course
would redound to his Majesty's credit and dignity, while the latter would give the British
Government concern in the case of a prince whom, as our ally, we sincerely desire to honour
and uphold; that for these reasons, and on account of the King's inexperience, the Governor-General
is not disposed to act immediately on the power vested in him by the Honourable Court's despatch
above quoted, still less is he disposed to hold him responsible for the misrule of his predecessors,
nor does he expect that so inveterate a system of misgovernment can suddenly be eradicated;
that the resolution, and the preliminary measures 'to effect this purpose,' can and ought at
once to be adopted by the King; that if his Majesty cordially enters into the plan suggested
by the Governor-General for the improvement of his administration, he may have the satisfaction,
within the period specified of two years, of checking and eradicating the worst abuses, and,
at the same time, of maintaining his own sovereignty and the native institutions of his kingdom
unimpaired; but if he does not, if he takes a vacillating course, and fail by refusing to act
on the Governor-General's advice, he is aware of the other alternative and of the consequences.
It must, then, be manifest to the whole world that, whatever may happen, the King has received
a friendly and timely warning."

On the 24th of December in that year, 1847, Government, in reply to the Resident's letter of
the 30th November, states that it does not consider the King's reply in any respect satisfactory;
that the Resident is to remind his Majesty that under paragraph the 23rd of the memorandum
read out to him by the Governor-General's direction, the Resident has been required to submit
periodical reports of the state of his dominions, and that his Majesty must be fully aware
of the responsibility he incurs if he neglects, during the interval allowed him, to introduce
the requisite reforms in his administration.

More than two years have elapsed since this caution was given, and the King has done nothing
to improve his administration, abstained from no personal indulgence, given no attention whatever
to public affairs. He had before that time tried to imitate his father, attend a little to
public affairs, and see occasionally the members of the royal family and aristocracy, at least
of the city, and heads of departments; but the effort was painful, and soon ceased altogether
to be made. He had from boyhood mixed in no other society than that in which he now mixes exclusively,
and he will never submit to the restraints of any other. The King has utterly disregarded alike
the Governor-General's advice and admonitions, the duties and responsibilities of his high
office, and the sufferings of the many millions subject to his rule. His time and attention
are devoted entirely to the pursuit of personal gratifications; he associates with none but
such as those who contribute to such gratifications-- women, singers, and eunuchs; and he never,
I believe, reads or hears read any petition from his suffering subjects, any report from his
local officers civil or military, or presidents of his fiscal and judicial courts, or functionaries
of any hind. He seems to take no interest whatever in public affairs, and to care nothing whatever
about them.

The King had natural capacity equal to that of any of those who have preceded him in the sovereignty
of Oude since the death of Saadut Allee in 1814, but he is the only one who has systematically
declined to devote any of that capacity, or any of his time, to the conduct of public affairs;
to see and occasionally commune with the heads of departments, the members of the royal family,
and native gentlemen of the capital; to read or have read to him the reports of his local functionaries,
and petitions or redress of wrongs from his suffering subjects.*

[*This systematic disregard of his high duties and responsibilities still continues to be manifested
by the King of Oude; and is observed, with feelings of indignation and abhorrence, by his well-
disposed subjects of all classes and grades, who are thereby left to the mercy of men without
any feeling of security in their tenure of office, any scruples of conscience, or feelings
of humanity, or of honour. So inveterate is the system of misgovernment--so deeply are all
those, now employed in the administration, interested in maintaining its worst abuses--and
so fruitless is it to expect the King to remove them, or employ better men, or to be ever able
to inspire any men, whom he may appoint, with a disposition to serve him more honestly, and
to respect the rights of others, or consider the reputation and permanent interests of their
own master, that the impression has become strong and general, that our Government can no longer
support the present Government of Oude, without seriously neglecting its duty towards the people.--1851,
W. H. S.]

In the reports of the Resident on the state of affairs in Oude, and the replies of Government,
much importance has been always attached to the change from the contract, or ijara system,
to that of the amanee, or trust management system; and since the time of Lord Hardinge's visit
many more districts have been put under the latter system; but this has not tended, in the
smallest degree, to the benefit of the people of these districts. The same abuses prevail under
the one system as under the other. The troops employed in the districts under the one are the
same as those employed in the districts under the other, and they prey just as much upon the
people. There is the same system of rack-rent in the one as in the other, and the same uncertainty
in the rate of the Government demand. The manager under the amanut system demands the same
secret gratuities and nuzuranas for himself and his patrons at Court from the landholders,
as the contractor; and if they refuse to pay them they are besieged, attacked, and cut up,
and their estates desolated in the same manner. The amanut manager knows that his tenure of
office depends as much upon the amount which he pays to his sovereign, and to his patrons at
Court, as that of the contractor, and he exacts and extorts as much as he can in the same manner.
Unless he pays his patrons the same he knows that he shall soon be removed, or driven to resign
by the want of means to enforce the payment of the revenues justly due.

The objections which are urged against the employment of British troops in support of the authority
of revenue contractors, are equally applicable to their employment in support of that of amanee
managers. Their employment is just as liable to abuse under the one as under the other. It
is not a whit easier to ascertain whether a demand for balance of revenue from, or a charge
of contumacy against, a landholder is just or unjust in the one than in the other. In neither
is the demand set forth in public documents understood by either party to be the real demand.
Both parties are equally interested in preventing a portion of the real demand from appearing
in the public accounts; and the quarrel is almost always about the rate of this concealed portion--the
collector trying to augment, and the landlord trying to reduce it.

In a letter to the Resident, dated the 29th of March, 1823, Government observes: "As some palliation
of the mischief of our forces being constantly employed in what might be too often termed the
cause of injustice and extortion, the Government in 1811 distinctly declared our right of previously
investigating, and of arbitrating the demands which its troops might be called upon to support
as also its resolution to exercise that right on all future occasions. The execution of the
important duty in question seems to be almost invariably delegated by the Resident to the officers
commanding at the different stations, who, after receiving general powers to attend to the
requisitions of the amils, become the sole judges of the individual cases, in which aid is
to be afforded or withheld; and the discretion again unavoidably descends from them, in many
instances, to the officers commanding parties detached from the main body. It is obvious that
an inquiry of this description can afford but a partial check to, and a feeble security against,
injustice and oppression where specific engagements rarely exist, and where the point at issue
is frequently the demand for augmenting rates of revenue, founded on alleged assets sufficient
to meet that increase.

"Neither is the aid thus afforded at all effectual for the purposes of the Government of Oude,
whether present or future, as is clear from the annual repetition of the same scenes of resistance
and compulsion. As fast as disorders are suppressed in one quarter they spring up in another.
Forts that are this year dismantled are restored again the next; the compulsion exercised upon
particular individuals in one season has no effect in producing more regularity on their parts,
or on that of others in the ensuing season, until the same process has been again gone through;
whilst the contempt and odium attaching to a system of collecting the revenues, by the habitual
intervention of the troops of another State, infallibly tend to aggravate the evil, by destroying
all remains of confidence in his Majesty, or respect for his authority."

The aid of British troops in the collection of the revenues of Oude has long ceased to be afforded;
but when they have been afforded for the suppression of leaders of atrocious bands of robbers,
who preyed upon the people, and seized upon the lands of their weaker neighbours, and they
have been driven from their forts and strongholds, the privilege of building them up again,
or re-occupying and garrisoning them with the same bands of robbers, to be employed in the
same way, is purchased from the local authorities, or the patrons of these leaders at Court,
during the same or the succeeding season. The same things continue to be done every season
where no British troops are employed. Such privileges are purchased with as much facility as
those for the supply of essence or spices in the palace; unless the Resident should interpose
authoritatively to prevent it, which he very rarely does. Indeed it is seldom that a Resident
knows or cares anything about the matter.

I may say generally, that in Oude the larger landholders do not pay more than one-third of
their net rents to the Government, while some of them do not pay one-fifth or one-tenth. In
the half of the territory made over to us in 1801, the great landholders who still retain their
estates pay to our Government at least two-thirds of their net rents. In Oude these great landholders
have, at present, about two hundred and fifty mud forts, mounting about five hundred guns,
and containing on an average four hundred armed men, or a total of one hundred thousand, trained
and maintained to fight against other, or against the Government authorities; and to pillage
the peaceful and industrious around whenever so employed. In the half of the territory ceded
to us in 1801, this class of armed retainers has disappeared altogether. Hence from the Oude
half we have some fifty thousand native officers and sipahees in our native army, while from
our half we have not perhaps five thousand.

One thing is clear, that we cannot restore to the Oude Government the territory we acquired
from it by the treaty of 1801, and the people who occupy it; and that we cannot withdraw our
support from that Government altogether without doing so. It is no less clear that all our
efforts to make the Government of Oude, under the support which we are bound by that treaty
to give it, fulfil the duties to its people to which it was pledged by that treaty, have failed
during the fifty years that have elapsed since it was made.

The only alternative left, appears to be for the paramount power to take upon itself the administration,
and give to the sovereign, the royal family, and its stipendiary dependents, all the surplus
revenues in pensions, opening as much as possible all employments in the civil administration
to the educated classes of Oude. The military and police establishments would consist almost
exclusively of Oude men. Under such a system more of these classes would be employed than at
present, for few of the officers employed in the administration are of these classes--the greater
part of them are adventurers from all parts of India, without character or education. The number
of such officers would be multiplied fourfold, and the means of paying them would be taken
from the favourites and parasites of the Court who now do nothing but mischief.

Such a change would be popular among the members of the royal family itself, who now get their
pensions after long intervals--often after two and even three years, and with shameful reductions
in behalf of those favourites and parasites whom they detest and despise, but whom the minister,
for his own personal purposes, is obliged to conciliate by such perquisites. It would be popular
among the educated classes, as opening to them offices now filled by knaves and vagabonds from
all parts of India, It would be no less so to the well-disposed portion of the agricultural
classes, who would be sure of protection to life, property, and character, without the expensive
trains of armed followers which they now keep up. But to secure this, we should require to
provide them with a more simple system of civil judicature than that which we have at work
in our old territories.

The change would be popular, with few exceptions, among all the mercantile and manufacturing
classes. It would give vast employment to all the labouring classes throughout the country,
in the construction of good roads, bridges, wells, tanks, temples, suraes, military and civil
buildings, and other public works; but above all, in that of private dwellings, and other edifices
for use and ornament, in which all men would be proud to lay out their wealth to perpetuate
their names, when secured in the possession by an honest and efficient Government; but more
especially those who would be no longer able to employ their means in maintaining armed bands,
to resist the local authorities and disturb the peace of the country. On the whole, I think
that at least nine-tenths of the people of Oude would hail the change as a great blessing;
always providing, that our system of administration should be rendered as simple as possible
to meet the wants and wishes of a simple people.

Though the Resident has never been able to secure any substantial and permanent improvement
in the administration, he often interposes successfully in individual cases, to relieve suffering,
and secure redress for wrongs; and the people see that he interferes in no others. Their only
regret is, that he does not interpose more often, and that his efforts, when he does, should
be so often thwarted or disregarded. The British character is, in consequence, respected in
the remotest village and jungle in Oude; and there is, I believe, no part of India where an
European officer is received, among the people of all classes, with more kindness and courtesy
than in Oude. There is, certainly, no city or town in any other native State in India where
he is treated in the crowded streets with more respect. This must of course be accounted for
in great measure from the greater part of the members of the royal family, and the relatives
and dependents of the several persons who have held the highest offices of the State since
1814, either receiving their incomes from the British Government in treaty pensions, or in
interest on our Government securities, or being guaranteed in those which they receive from
the Oude Government by ours. A great many of the families of the middle classes depend entirely
upon the interest which they receive from us on our Government securities. There is, indeed,
hardly a respectable family in Lucknow that is not more or less dependent upon our Government
for protection, and proud to have it considered that they are so. The works and institutions
which would soon be created out of revenues, now absorbed by worthless Court favourites, would
soon embellish the face of the country, improve the character, condition, and habits of the
people, stimulate their industry in agriculture, manufactures, and commerce; and render our
connection with the Oude Government honourable to our name in the estimation of all India.

February 14, 1850.--Peernuggur, ten miles south-east, over a plain of the same soil, but with
more than the usual proportion of oosur. Trees and groves as usual, but not quite so fine or
numerous. The Nazim of Khyrabad took leave of me on his boundary as we crossed it about midway,
and entered the district of "Baree Biswa," which is held in farm by Lal Bahader,* a Hindoo,
who there met us. This fiscal officer has under him the "Jafiree," and "Tagfore" Regiments
of nujeebs, and eight pieces of cannon. The commandants of both corps are in attendance at
Court, and one of them, Imdad Hoseyn, never leaves it. The other does condescend sometimes
to come out to look at his regiment when not on service. The draft-bullocks for the guns have,
the Nazim tells me, had a little grain within the last month, but still not more than a quarter
of the amount for which the King is charged. Peernuggur is now a place of little note upon
the banks of the little river Sae, which here flows under a bridge built by Asuf- od Dowlah
some sixty years ago.

[* This man was in prison at Lucknow as a defaulter, but made his escape in October, 1851,
by drugging the sentry placed over him, and got safe into British territory.]

Gang-robberies are here as frequent as in Khyrabad, and the respectable inhabitants are going
off in the same manner. One which took place in July last year is characteristic of the state
of society in Oude, and may be mentioned here. Twelve sipahees of the 59th Regiment Native
Infantry, then stationed at Bareilly, lodged here for the night, in a surae, on their way home
on furlough. Dal Partuk, a Brahmin by caste, and a man of strength and resolution, resided
here and cultivated a small patch of land. He had two pair of bullocks, which used to be continually
trespassing upon other men's fields and gardens, and embroiling him with the people, till one
night they disappeared. Dal Partuk called upon his neighbours, who had suffered from their
trespasses, to restore them or pay the value, and threatened to rob, plunder, and burn down
the town if they did not.

A great number of pausees reside in and around the town, and he knew that he could collect
a gang of them for any enterprise of this sort at the shortest notice. The people were not
disposed to pay the value of his lost bullocks, and they could not be found. While he was meditating
his revenge, his relation, Dhokul Partuk, was by a trifling accident driven to take the field
as a robber. An oil- vender, a female, from a neighbouring village, had presumed to come to
Peernuggur, and offer oil for sale. The oil-venders of the town, dreading the consequences
of such competition, went forthwith to the little garrison and prayed for protection. One of
the sipahees went off to the silversmith to whom the oil-vender had sold twopence-worth of
oil, and, finding the oil-vender still with him, proceeded at once to seize both, and take
them off to the garrison as criminals. Dhokul Partuk, who lived close by, and had his sword
by his side, went up and remonstrated with the sipahee, who, taking him to be another silversmith,
struck him across the face with his stick. Dhokul drew his sword, and made a cut at the sipahee,
which would have severed his head from his body had he not fallen backwards. As it was, he
got a severe cut in the chest, and ran off to his companions. Dhokul went out of the town with
his drawn sword, and no one dared to pursue him. At night he returned, took off his family
to a distant village, became a leader of a band of pausee bowmen, and invited his kinsman,
Dal Partuk, to follow his example.

Together, they made an attack at night upon the town, and burnt down one quarter of the houses.
Dal Partuk offered to come to terms and live in the town again, if the people would pay the
value of his lost bullocks, and give him a small income of five rupees a-month. This they refused
to do, and the plunder and burning went on. At last they made this attack upon the party in
the surae, which happened to be so full that several of the sipahees and others were cooking
outside the walls. None of the travellers had arms to defend themselves, and those inside closed
the doors as soon as they heard the alarm. The pausees, with their bows and arrows, killed
two of the sipahees who were outside, and while the gang was trying to force open the doors
of the surae, the people of the town, headed by a party of eight pausee bowmen of their own,
attacked and drove them back. These bowmen followed the gang for some distance, and killed
several of them with their arrows. The sipahees who escaped proceeded in all haste to the Resident,
and the Frontier Police has since succeeded in arresting several of the gang; but the two leaders
have hitherto been screened by Goorbuksh Sing and other great landholders in their interest.
The eight pausees who exerted themselves so successfully in defence of the town and surae were
expecting an attack from the pausees of a neighbouring village, and ready for action when the
alarm was given.

These parties of pausee bowmen have each under their charge a certain number of villages, whose
crops and other property they are pledged to defend for the payment of a certain sum, or a
certain portion of land rent-free. In one of these, under the Peernuggur party, three bullocks
had been stolen by the pausees of a neighbouring town. They were traced to them, and, as they
would neither restore them nor pay their value, the Peernuggur party attacked them one night
in their sleep, and killed the leader and four of his followers, to deter others of the tribe
from trespassing on property under their charge. They expect, they told us, to be attacked
in return some night, and are obliged to be always prepared, but have not the slightest apprehension
of ever being called to account for such things by the officers of Government. Nor would Dal
and Dhokul Partuk have any such apprehension, had not the Resident taken up the question of
the murder of the Honourable Company's sipahees as an international one. After plundering and
burning down a dozen villages, and murdering a score or two of people, they would have come
back and reoccupied their houses in the town without any fear of being molested or questioned
by Government officers. Nor would the people of the town object to their residing among them
again, provided they pledged themselves to abstain in future from molesting them. Goorbuksh
Sing, only a few days ago, offered the contractor, Hoseyn Allee, the sum of five thousand,
rupees if he would satisfy the Resident that Dal Partuk had nothing whatever to do with the
Peernuggur dacoitee, and thereby induce him to discontinue the pursuit.*

[* Dhokul Partuk and Dal Partuk were at last secured. Dhokul died in the king's gaol, but Dal
Partuk is still in prison under trial.]

The people of towns and villages, having no protection whatever from the Government, are obliged
to keep up, at their own cost, this police of pausee bowmen, who are bound only to protect
those who pay them. As their families increase beyond the means derived from this, their only
legitimate employment, their members thieve in the neighbouring or distant villages, rob on
the highroads, or join the gangs of those who are robbers by profession, or take the trade
in consequence of disputes and misunderstandings with Government authorities or their neighbours.
In Oude--and indeed in all other parts of India, under a Government so weak and indifferent
to the sufferings of its subjects--all men who consider arms to be their proper profession
think themselves justified in using them to extort the means of subsistence from those who
have property when they have none, and can no longer find what they consider to be suitable
employment. All Rajpoots are of this class, and the greater part of the landholders in Oude
are Rajpoots. But a great part of the Mahommedan rural population are of the same class, and
no small portion of the Brahmin inhabitants, like the two Partuks above named, consider arms
to be their proper profession; and all find the ready means of forming gangs of robbers out
of these pausee bowmen and the many loose characters to whom the disorders of the country give
rise.

A great many of the officers and sipahees of the King's nujeeb and other regiments are every
month discharged for mutiny, insubordination, abuse of authority, or neglect of duty, or merely
to make room for men more subservient to Court favourites, or because they cannot or will not
pay the demanded gratuity to a new and useless commandant appointed by Court favour. The plunder
of villages has been the daily occupation of these men during the whole period of their service,
and they become the worst of this class of loose characters, ready to join any band of freebooters.
Such bands are always sure to find a patron among the landholders ready to receive and protect
them, for a due share of their booty, against any force that the King's officers may send after
them; and, if they prefer it as less costly, they can always find a manager of a district ready
to do the same, on condition that they abstain from plundering within his jurisdiction. The
greater part of the land is, however, cultivated, and well cultivated under all this confusion
and consequent insecurity. Tillage is the one thing needful to all, and the persons from whom
trespasses on the crops are most apprehended are the reckless and disorderly trains of Government
officials.

February 16, 1850.--Biswa, eighteen miles east, over a plain of excellent soil, partly doomut,
but chiefly mutteear, well studded with trees and groves, scantily cultivated for the half
of the way, but fully and beautifully for the second half. The wheat beginning to change colour
as it approaches maturity, and waving in the gentle morning breeze; intervening fields covered
with mixed crops of peas, gram, ulsee, teora, surson, mustard, all in flower, and glittering
like so many rich parterres; patches here and there of the dark-green arahur and yellow sugar-cane
rising in bold relief; mango-groves, majestic single trees, and clusters of the graceful bamboo
studding the whole surface, and closing the distant horizon in one seemingly- continued line
of fence--the eye never tires of such a scene, but would like now and then to rest upon some
architectural work of ornament or utility to aid the imagination in peopling it.

The road for the last six miles passes through the estate of Nawab Allee, a Mahommedan landholder,
who is a strong man and a good manager and paymaster. His rent-roll is about four hundred thousand
rupees a-year, and he pays Government about one hundred and fifty thousand. His hereditary
possession was a small one, and his estate has grown to the present size in the usual way.
He has lent money in mortgage and foreclosed; he has given security for revenue due to Government
by other landholders, who have failed to pay, and had their estates made over to him; he has
given security for the appearance, when called for, of others, and, on their failing to appear
(perchance at his own instigation), had their lands made over to him by the Government authorities,
on condition of making good the Government demand upon them; he has offered a higher rate of
revenue for lands than present holders could make them yield, and, after getting possession,
brought the demand down to a low rate in collusion with Government officers. Some three-fourths
of the magnificent estate which he now holds he has obtained in these and other ways by fraud,
violence, or collusion within the last few years. He is too powerful and wealthy to admit of
any one's getting his lands out of his hands after they have once passed into them, no matter how.

The Chowka river flows from the forest towards the Ghagra, about ten miles to the east from
Biswa, and I am told that the richest sheet of cultivation in Oude is within the delta formed
by these two rivers.* At the apex of this delta stands the fort of Bhitolee, which I have often
mentioned as belonging to Rajah Goorbuksh Sing, and being under siege by the contractor of
the Khyrabad district when we passed the Ghagra in December. Biswa is a large town, well situated
on a good soil and open plain, and its vicinity would be well suited for a cantonment or seat
for civil establishments. Much of the cloth called sullum used to be made here for export to
Europe, but the demand has ceased, and with it the manufacture.

[* This delta contains the following noble estates; 1, Dhorehra; 2, Eesanuggur; 3, Chehlary;
4, Rampore; 5, Bhitolee; 6, Mullahpore; 7, Seonta; 8, Nigaseen; and 9, Bhera Jugdeopore. The
Turae forest forms the base of this delta, and the estates of Dhorehra, Eesanuggur, and Bhera
Jugdeopore lie along its border. They have been much injured by the King's troops within the
last three years. Bhitolee is at the apex.]

February 17 and 18, 1850.--Detained at Biswa by rain.

February 19, 1850.--Yesterday evening came to Kaharpore, ten miles, over a plain of the same
fine soil, mutteear of the best quality, running here and there into doomutteea and even bhoor.
Cultivation good, and the plain covered with rich spring crops, except where the ground is
being prepared to receive the autumn seed in June next. It is considered good husbandry to-plough,
cross-plough, and prepare the lands thus early. The spring crops are considered to be more
promising than they have been at any other season for the last twenty years. The farmers and
cultivators calculate upon an average return of ten and twelve fold, and say that, in other
parts of Oude where the lands are richer, there will be one of fifteen or twenty of wheat,
gram, &c. The pucka-beega, two thousand seven hundred and fifty-six square yards, requires
one maund of seed of forty seers, of eighty rupees of the King's and Company's coinage the
seer.* The country, as usual, studded with trees, single, and in clusters and groves, intermingled
with bamboos, which are, however, for the most part, of the smaller or hill kind.

[* The pucka-beega in Oude is about the same as that which prevails over our North-Western
Provinces, two thousand seven hundred and fifty-six and a quarter square yards, or something
more than one-half of our English statute acre, which is four thousand eight hundred and forty
square yards. This pucka-beega takes of seed-wheat one maund, or eighty pounds; and yields
on an average, under good tillage, eight returns of the seed, or eight maunds, or six hundred
and forty pounds, which, at one rupee the maund, yields eight rupees, or sixteen shillings.
The stock required in Oude in irrigated lands is about twenty rupees the pucka-beega. The rent
on an average two rupees. In England an acre, on an average, requires two and three- quarter
bushels of seed wheat, or one hundred and seventy-six pounds, or two maunds and sixteen seers,
and yields twenty-four bushels, or one thousand five hundred and thirty-six pounds. This at
forty shillings the quarter (512 lbs.) would yield six pounds sterling. The stock required
in England is estimated at ten pounds Sterling per acre, or ten times the annual rent. It is
difficult to estimate the rate of rent on land in England, since the reputed owner is said
to be "only the ninth and last recipient of rent."]

On reaching camp, I met, for the first time, the great landholder, Nawab Allee, of Mahmoodabad.
In appearance, he is a quiet gentlemanly man, of middle age and stature. He keeps his lands
in the finest possible state of tillage, however objectionable the means by which he acquires
them. His family have held the estates of Mahmoodabad and Belehree for many generations as
zumeendars, or proprietors; but they have augmented them greatly, absorbing into them the estates
of their weaker neighbours.*

[* Akram Allee and Muzhur Allee inherited the estate in two divisions. Akram Allee got Mahmoodabad,
and had two sons, Surufraz Allee, who died without issue, before his father; and Mosahib Allee,
who succeeded to the estate, but died without issue. Muzhur Allee got the estate of Belehree,
and had two sons, Abud Allee, and Nawab Allee. Abud Allee succeeded to the estate of Belehree,
and Nawab Allee to that of Mahmoodabad by adoption.]

Akram Allee held Mahmoodabad, and was succeeded in the possession by his son, Mosahib Allee,
who died about forty years ago, leaving the estate to his widow, who held it for twenty-eight
years up to A.D. 1838, when she died. She had, the year before, adopted her nephew, Nawab Allee,
and he succeeded to the estate. The Belehree estate is held by his elder brother, Abud Allee,
who is augmenting it in the same way, but not at the same rate. I may mention a few recent
cases, as illustrative of the manner in which such things are done in Oude.

Mithun Sing, of an ancient Rajpoot family, held the estate of Semree, which had been held by
his ancestors for many centuries. It consisted of twelve fine villages, paid to Government
4000 rupees a year, and yielded him a rent roll of 20,000. Nawab Allee coveted very much this
estate, which bordered on his own. Three years ago, he instigated the Nazim to demand an increase
of 5000 rupees a-year from the estate; and at the same time invited Mithun Sing to his house,
and persuaded him to resist the demand, to the last. He took to the jungles, and in the contest
between him and the Nazim all the crops of the season were destroyed, and all the cultivators
driven from the lands. When the season of tillage returned in June, and Mithun Sing had been
reduced to the last stage of poverty, Nawab Allee consented to become the mediator, got a lease
from the Chuckladar for Mithun Sing at 4500 rupees a-year, and stood surety for the punctual
payment of the demand. Poor Mithun Sing could pay nothing, and Nawab Allee got possession of
the estate in liquidation of the balance due to him; and assigned to Mithun Sing five hundred
pucka-beegas of land for his subsistence. He still resides on the estate, and supports his
family by the tillage of these few beegas.

Amdhun Chowdheree held a share in the estate of Biswa, consisting of sixty-five villages; paying
to Government 12,000 rupees a-year, and yielding a rent-roll of 65,000. His elder brother's
widow resided on the estate, supported by Amdhun, who managed its affairs for the family. Nawab
Allee got up a quarrel between her and her brother-in- law; and she assumed the right to authorize
Nawab Allee to seize upon the whole estate. Amdhun appealed to his clan, but Nawab Allee, in
collusion with the Nazim, was too strong for him, and got possession by taking a strong force,
and driving out all who presumed to resist him. The estate had been held by the family for
many centuries.

Mohun Sing held the estate of Mundhuna, which had been in his family for many generations.
He was, by the usual process, five years ago, constrained to accept the security of Nawab Allee
for the punctual payment of the revenue; and his estate was absorbed in the usual way, the
year after. He is now, like a boa-constrictor, swallowing up Chowdheree Pertab Sing, who holds
a large share in the hereditary estate of Biswa, which has been in the possession of the family
for a great many generations. This share consisted of thirty-six villages, and paid a revenue
to Government of fourteen thousand. Last year, Nawab Allee instigated the Nazim to demand ten
thousand more. The Nazim, to prevent all disputes, assigned the twenty-four thousand to Mirza
Hoseyn Beg, the commandant of a troop of cavalry, employed under him, in liquidation of their
arrears of pay. The commandant gave him a receipt for the amount, which the Nazim sent to the
treasury, and got credit for the amount in his accounts. But poor Pertab Sing could not pay,
and was imprisoned by the cavalry, who kept possession of his person, and took upon them the
collection of his rents. Nawab Allee came in and paid what was due; and gave security for the
punctual payment of the revenue for the ensuing year. The estate was made over to him; and
he put on score after score of dustuk bearers, who soon reduced Pertab Sing to utter beggary.
Ten thousand rupees were due to Nawab Allee, and he had nothing left to sell; and under such
circumstances no man else would lend him anything.

The dustuk bearers are servants of the creditor, who are sent to attend the debtor, extort
from him their wages and subsistence, and see that he does not move, eat, or drink till he
pays them. During this time the creditor saves all the wages of these attendants; and they
commonly exact double wages from the debtor, so that he is soon reduced to terms. In this stage
we found the poor Chowdheree on reaching Biswa. I had him released, and so admonished Nawab
Allee, that he has some little chance of saving his estate.

Bisram Sing held the estate of Kooa Danda, which had been in the possession of his family of
Ahbun Rajpoots for many centuries. It consisted of thirty-five villages, paid a revenue of
six thousand rupees a-year, and yielded a rent-roll of eighteen thousand and five hundred.
Nawab Allee coveted it as being on his border, and in good order. As soon as his friend; Allee
Buksh, was appointed Nazim of the district, he prevailed upon him to report to the Durbar that
Bisram Sing was a refractory subject, and plunderer; and to request permission to put him down
by force of arms. This was in 1844, while Bisram Sing was living quietly on his estate. On
receiving the order, which came as a matter of course, the Nazim united his force with that
of Nawab Allee, and attacked the house of Bisram Sing, which had only twenty-two men to defend
it against two thousand. Six of the twenty-two were killed, eight wounded, and eight only escaped;
and Nawab Allee took possession of the estate.

Bisram Sing was at Lucknow at the time, trying to rebut the false charges of the Nazim; but
his influence was unhappily too strong for him, and he got no redress. Soon after Nirput Sing,
a sipahee in the 9th Regiment Native Infantry, presented a petition to the Resident, stating
that he was the brother of Bisram Sing, and equally interested in the estate; and a special
officer, Busharut Allee, was ordered by the Durbar to investigate and decide the case. He decided
in favour of Nirput, the sipahee, and Bisram Sing. Another special officer was sent out to
restore Bisram to possession. Nawab Allee then pleaded the non-existence of any relationship
between Nirput and Bisram; and a third special officer has been sent out to ascertain this fact.

Belehree, held by Abud Allee, consists of forty villages, pays a revenue of twelve thousand
rupees a-year, and yields a rent-roll of forty thousand. Abud Allee holds also the estate of
Pyntee, in the same district, consisting of eighty villages, paying a revenue of thirty-five
thousand, and yielding a rent-roll of one hundred and forty thousand. It had been held by his
relative Kazim Allee, who was succeeded in the possession by Nizam Allee, the husband of his
only daughter. Nizam Allee was in A.D. 1841 killed by a servant, who was cut down and killed
in return by his attendants. Nizam Allee's widow held till 1843, when she made over the estate
to Abud Allee, by whom she is supported.

Nawab Allee has always money at command to purchase influence at Court when required; and he
has also a brave and well-armed force, with which to aid the governor of the district, when
he makes it worth his while to do so, in crushing a refractory landholder. These are the sources
of his power, and he is not at all scrupulous in the use of it--it is not the fashion to be
so in Oude.

February 20th, 1850.--Came on sixteen miles to Futtehpore, in the estate of Nawab Allee, passing
Mahmoodabad half way. Near that place we passed through a grove of mango and other trees called
the "Lak Peree," or the grove of a hundred thousand trees planted by his ancestors forty years
ago. The soil is the same, the country level, studded with the same rich foliage, and covered
with the same fine crops. As we were passing through his estate, and were to encamp in it again
to-day, Nawab Allee attended me on horseback; and I endeavoured to impress upon him and the
Nazim the necessity of respecting the rights of others, and more particularly those of the
old Chowdheree Pertab Sing. "Why is it," I asked, "that this beautiful scene is not embellished
by any architectural beauties? Sheikh Sadee, the poet, so deservedly beloved by you all, old
and young, Hindoos and Mahommedans, says, 'The man who leaves behind him in any place, a bridge,
a well, a church, or a caravansera, never dies.' Here not even a respectable dwelling-house
is to be seen, much less a bridge, a church, or a caravansera." "Here, sir," said old Bukhtawur,
"men must always be ready for a run to the jungles. Unless they are so, they can preserve nothing
from the grasp of the contractors of the present day, who have no respect for property or person--for
their own character, or for that of their sovereign. The moment that a man runs to save himself,
family, and property, they rob and pull down his house, and those of all connected with him.
When a man has nothing but mud walls, with invisible mud covers, they give him no anxiety;
he knows that he can build them up again in a few days, or even a few hours, when he comes
back from the jungles; and he cares little about what is done to them during his absence. Had
he an expensive house of burnt brick and mortar, he could never feel quite free. He might be
tempted to defend it, and lose some valuable lives; or he might be obliged to submit to unjust
terms. Were he to lay out his money in expensive mosques, temples, and tombs, they would restrain
him in the same way; and he is content to live without them, and have his loins always girded
for fight or flight."

"True," said Nawab Allee, "very true; we can plant groves and make wells, but we cannot venture
to erect costly buildings of any kind. You saw the Nazim of Khyrabad, only a few days ago,
bringing all his troops down upon Rampore, because the landlord, Goman Sing, would not consent
to the increase he demanded of ten thousand, upon seventeen thousand rupees a-year, which he
had hitherto paid. Goman Sing took to the jungles; and in ten days his fine crops would all
have been destroyed, and his houses levelled with the ground, had you not interposed, and admonished
both. The one at last consented to take, and the other to pay an increase of five thousand.
Only three years ago, Goman Sing's father was killed by the Nazim in a similar struggle; and
landholders must always be prepared for them."

February 21st, 1850.--Bureearpore, ten miles south-east, over a plain of the same fine soil,
well cultivated, and carpeted with the same fine crops and rich foliage. Midway we entered
the district of Ramnuggur Dhumeree, held by Rajah Gorbuksh Sing under the security of Seoraj-od
Deen, the person who attempted in vain to arrest the charge of the two regiments upon the Khyrabad
Nazim by holding up the sacred Koran over his head. He met me on his boundary, and Nawab Allee
and the Nazim of Baree Biswa took their leave. Nawab Allee's brother, Abud Allee, came to pay
his respects to me yesterday evening. He is a respectable person in appearance, and a man of
good sense. The landscape was, I think, on the whole richer than any other that I have seen
in Oude; but I am told that it is still richer at a distance from the road, where the poppy
is grown in abundance, and opium of the best quality made.*

[* Opium sells in Oude at from three to eight rupees the seer, according to its quality. In
our neighbouring districts it sells at fourteen rupees the seer, in the shops licensed by Government.
Government, in our districts, get opium from the cultivators and manufacturers at three rupees
and half the seer. The temptation to smuggle is great, but the risk is great also, for the
police in our districts is vigilant in this matter.]

Still lamenting the want of all architectural ornament to the scene, and signs of manufacturing
and commercial industry, to show that people had property, and were able to display and enjoy
it, and gradations of rank, I asked whether people invested their wealth in the loans of our
Government. "Sir," said Bukhtawur Sing, "the people who reside in the country know nothing
about your Government paper; it is only the people of the capital that hold it or understand
its value. The landholders and peasantry would never be able to keep it in safety, or understand
when and how to draw the interest."

"Do they spend more in marriage and other ceremonies than the people of other parts of India,
or do they make greater displays on such occasions?"

"Quite the reverse, sir," said Seoraj-od Deen; "they dare not make any display at all. Only
the other day, Gunga Buksh, the refractory landholder of Kasimgunge, attacked a marriage-procession
in the village of ------, carried off the bridegroom, and imprisoned him till he paid the large
random demanded from him. In February last year Imam Buksh Behraleen, of Oseyree, having quarrelled
with the Amil, attacked and carried off a whole marriage party to the jungles. They gave up
all the property they had, and offered to sign bonds for more, to be paid by their friends
for their ransom; but he told them that money would not do; that their families were people
of influence, and must make the King's officers restore him to his estate upon his own terms,
or he would keep them till they all died. They exerted themselves, and Imam Buksh got back
his estate upon his own terms; but he still continues to rob and plunder. These crimes are
to them diversions from which there is no making them desist."

"There are a dozen gang leaders of this class at present in the belt of jungle which extends
westward from our right up to within fourteen miles of the Lucknow cantonments; and the plunder
of villages, murder of travellers, and carrying off of brides and bridegrooms from marriage
processions, are things of every-day occurrence. There are also in these parts a number of
pansee bowmen, who not only join in the enterprises of such gangs as in other districts, but
form gangs of their own, under leaders of their own caste, to rob travellers and plunder villages.

"Gunga Buksh of Kasimgunge has his fort in this belt of jungle, and he and his friends and
relations take good care that no man cuts any of it down, or cultivates the land. With the
gangs which he and his relatives keep up in this jungle, he has driven out the greater part
of the Syud proprietors of the surrounding villages, and taken possession of their lands. After
driving out the King's troops from the town of Dewa, and exacting ransoms from many of the
inhabitants, whom he seized and carried off in several attacks, he, in October last, brought
down upon it all the ruffians he could collect, killed no less than twenty-nine persons--chiefly
Syuds and land proprietors --and took possession of the town and estate. The chief proprietor,
Bakur Allee, was killed among the rest; and Gunga Buksh burnt his body, and suspended his head
to a post in his own village of Luseya. He dug down his house and those of all his relations
who had been killed with him, and now holds quiet possession of his estate."

This was all true. The Resident, on the application of Haffiz-od Deen, a native judicial officer
of Moradabad district--one of the family which had lost so many members in this atrocious attack--urged
strongly on the Durbar the necessity of punishing Gunga Buksh and his gang. The Ghunghor Regiment
of Infantry, with a squadron of cavalry, and six guns, was sent out in October 1849, for the
purpose, under a native officer. On the force moving out, the friends of Gunga Buksh at Court
caused the commandant to be sent for on some pretext or other; and he has been detained at
the capital ever since. The force has, in consequence, remained idle, and Gunga Buksh has been
left quietly to enjoy the, fruits of his enterprise. The Amil having no troops to support his
authority, or even to defend his person in such a position, has also remained at Court. No
revenue has been collected, and the people are left altogether exposed to the depredations
of these merciless robbers. The belt of jungle is nine miles long and four miles wide; and
the west end of it is within only fourteen miles of the Lucknow cantonments, where we have
three regiments of infantry, and a company of artillery.

February 22nd, 1850.--A brief history of the rise of this family may tend to illustrate the
state of things in Oude. Khumma Rawut, of the pansee tribe, the great-grandfather of this Gunga
Buksh, served Kazee Mahommed, the great-grandfather of this Bakur Allee, as a village watchman,
for many years up to his death. He had some influence over his master, and making the most
of this and of the clan feeling which subsisted among the pansees of the district, he was able
to command the services of a formidable gang when the old Kazee died. He left a young family,
and Khumma got possession of five or six villages out of the estate which the old Kazee left
to his sons. The sons were too weak: to resist the pansees, and when Khumma died he left them
to his five sons:-- 1. Kundee Sing; 2. Bukhta Sing; 3. Alum Sing; 4. Lalsahae; 5. Misree Sing.
As the family increased in numbers it has gone on adding to its possessions in the same manner,
by attacking and plundering villages, murdering or driving off the old proprietors of the lands,
and taking possession of them for themselves. Each branch of the family, as it separates from
the parent stock, builds for itself a fort in one or other of the villages which belong to
its share of the acquired lands. In this fort the head of each branch of the family resides
with his armed followers, and sallies forth to plunder the country and acquire new possessions.
In small enterprises each branch acts by itself; in larger ones two or more branches unite,
and divide the lands and booty they acquire by amicable arrangement.

They seize all the respectable persons whom they find in the villages which they attack and
plunder, keep them in prison, and inflict all manner of tortures upon them, till they have
paid, or pledged themselves to pay, all that they have or can borrow from their friends, as
their ransom. If they refuse to pay, or to pledge themselves to pay the sum demanded, they
murder them. If they pay part, and pledge themselves to pay the rest within a certain time,
they are released; and if they fail to fulfil their engagements, they and their families are
murdered in a second attack. After the last attack above described upon Dewa, Gunga Buksh seized
seven fine villages belonging to the family of Bakur Allee Khan, which they had held for many
generations. He, Gunga Buksh, now holds no less than twenty-seven villages, all seized in the
same manner, after the plunder and murder of their old proprietors. The whole of this family,
descendants of Khumma Rawut, hold no less than two hundred villages and hamlets, all taken
in the same manner from the old proprietors, with the acquiescence or connivance of the local
authorities, who were either too weak or too corrupt to punish them, and restore the villages
to their proper owners.*

[* Kundee Sing had two sons, 1. Cheytun Sing; 2. Ajeet Sing. Cheytun Sing had two sons, 1.
Sophul Sing; 2. Thakurpurshad. Sophul Sing had two sons, 1. Keerut Sing; 2. Jote Sing. Ajeet
Sing had two sons, 1. Bhugwunt Sing; 2. Rutun Sing. Thakur Purshad, Bhugwunt Sing, and Rutun
Sing, reside in a fort which they have built in Bhetae, four miles from Dewa, in the north-west
border of the belt of jungle. They hold forty villages, besides hamlets, which they have taken
from the old proprietors of the Dewa and Korsee estates. Thakur Purshad has another fort called
Buldeogur, near that of Atursae, two coss south of Dewa; and Bhugwunt Sing has the small fort
of Munmutpore, close to Bhetae. Bukta Sing had only one son, Bisram Sing, who had only one
son, Gunga Buksh, who built the fort of Kasimgunge, on the north- eastern border of the same
belt of jungle, two miles south of Dewa, and on the death of his father, he went to reside
in it with his family and gang. He holds twenty-seven fine villages, with hamlets. Twenty of
these he seized upon from six to twelve years ago; and the other seven he got after the attack
upon Dewa, in October last. He has also a fort called Atursae, two coss south from Dewa; a
mile west from Buldeogur. Alum Sing's descendants have remained peaceable cultivators of the
soil in Dewa, and are, consequently, of too little note for a place in the genealogical table
of the family.

Lalsahae had three sons, 1. Dheer Sing; 2. Bustee Sing; 3. Gokul Sing, all dead. Dheer Sing
had two sons, Omed Sing and Jowahir Sing. Omed Sing had three sons, Dirgpaul Sing, Maheput
Sing, and Gungadhur, who was murdered by Thakur Pershad, his cousin. Jowahir Sing had one son,
Priteepaul Sing. Bustee Sing had two sons, Girwur Sing and Soulee Sing. Girwur Sing had two
sons, Dhokul Sing and Shunker Sing. This branch of the family hold the forts of Ramgura and
Paharpore, on the border of the jungle six miles south-west from Dewa, and twelve villages
besides hamlets taken in the same manner from the old proprietors. Gokul Sing had two sons,
Dulloo Sing and Soophul Sing. Dulloo Sing has one son. They reside with the families of Dheer
Sing and Bustee Sing.

Misree Sing, the fifth son of Khumma, had three sons, 1. Boneead Sing; 2. Dureeao Sing; 3.
name forgotten--all three are dead. Bonead Sing had two sons, 1. Anoop Sing; 2. Goorbuksh Sing.
Dureeao Sing had two sons, 1. Anokee Sing; 2. name forgotten. The third son of Misree Sing
had three sons, 1. Mulung Sing; 2. Anunt Sing; 3. name forgotten--all three still live.

This branch of the family resides in Satarpore, one mile west from Kasimgunge, in this belt
of Jungle, and two miles from Dewa, in a fortified house built by them. They have got a small
fort, called Pouree, near this place. They form part of Gunga Buksh's gang, and share with
him in the booty acquired.]

To record all the atrocities committed by the different members of this family in the process
of absorbing the estates of their neighbours, and the property of men of substance in the countries
around, would be a tedious and unprofitable task; and I shall content myself with mentioning
a few that are most prominent in the recollection of the people of the district. About ten
years ago, Gunga Buksh and his gang attacked the house of Lalla Shunker Lal, a respectable
merchant of Dewa, plundered it, killed the tutor of his three sons, and carried them and their
father off to his fort, where he tortured them till they paid him a ransom of nine thousand
rupees. On their release they left Dewa, and have ever since resided in Lucknow. Two years
after they attacked the village of Saleempore, two miles east from Dewa, killed Nyam Allee,
the zumeendar, and seized upon his estate. About six years ago Munnoo, the son of Gunga Buksh,
with a gang of near two thousand men, attacked the King's force in the town of Dewa, killed
four sipahees, two artillery-men, and two troopers, and plundered the place. About six months
ago this gang attacked the house of Ewuz Mahommed, in Dewa, plundered it, levelled it with
the ground, and took off all the timbers to their fort of Kasimgunge. Soon after he made the
attack in which he killed twenty- nine persons in Dewa, as above described.

Thakur Purshad, about fourteen years ago, attacked the village of Molookpore, two miles east
from Dewa, plundered it, took possession of the land, seized and carried off the proprietor,
Sheikh Khoda Buksh, and put him to death in his fort of Bhetae. Three years after he attacked
the house of Gholam Mostafa, in Dewa, killed him, and seized upon all the lands he held. Three
years ago he attacked the house of Janoo, a shopkeeper, plundered it, and confined and tortured
him till he paid a ransom of two hundred and fifty rupees. Three months after he seized and
carried off to his fort Roopun, another shopkeeper, and confined and tortured him till he paid
a ransom of three hundred rupees. Last year he seized and took off Jhow Dhobee from Dewa, and
extorted forty rupees from him. Six months ago he attacked a marriage-procession in Dewa, plundered
it, took off the bridegroom, Omed Allee, and confined and tortured him till he paid eleven
hundred and fifteen rupees. These men all levy black mail from the country around; and it is
those only who cannot or will not pay it, or whose lands they intend to appropriate, that they
attack. They created the jungle above described, of nine miles long by four wide, for their
own evil purposes, and preserve it with so much vigilance, that no man dares to cut a stick,
graze a bullock, or browse a camel in it without their special sanction; indeed, they are so
much dreaded, that no man or woman beyond their own family or followers dares enter the jungle.

Omed Sing, fifteen years ago, invited to his house the four proprietors of the village of Owree,
Gholam Kadir, Allee Buksh, Durvesh Allee, and Moiz-od Deen, residents of Dewa, and put them
to death because they could not, by torture, be made to transfer their lands to him. He then
seized their village, and built the fort of Rumgura Paharpore upon it. Omed Sing, Jowahir Sing,
Dhokul Sing, and Soophul Sing all reside in this fort with the son of Dulloo Sing. This family
of pansees, or, as they call themselves, Rawuts, form at present one of the most formidable
gangs of robbers in Oude, and one of the most difficult to put down from their union and inveterate
habit of plunder. They can always, at short notice and little cost, collect bands of hundreds
of the same tribe and habit to join them in plunder and resistance to lawful authority.

On the 25th of February, 1838, Rajah Dursun Sing, then in charge of the district, wrote to
the Durbar to say, "that Gunga Buksh of Dewa was the worst robber in the district, would pay
no revenue, and instigated others to withhold theirs; that numerous complaints had been made
against him to the Durbar by the people, and that he had been urged by Government to do his
best to punish him; that he had long tried all he could to do so, but had not sufficient troops;
that his evil deeds increased, however, so much, that he at last determined to run all risks,
and on the 27th of that month, on Friday, he left Amaneegunge, and marched forty-eight miles
without resting; and on Saturday, before daybreak, reached the fort of Kasimgunge, and invested
it on all sides; that he found the fort large and strong, and surrounded with dense jungle;
that he had only three guns with him, but, as the enemy were taken by surprise, he took all
their outworks one after another; that the besieged got a crowd of their adherents to attack
his force in the rear on Saturday night, that they might get off in the confusion, but his
troops were ready to intercept them at all points; and, in attempting to cut his way through,
Gunga Baksh was seized with all his followers, but the women and children were permitted to
go their way; that a good many of the enemy had been killed, and he, Dursun Sing, had had one
golundaz and five sipahees killed and ten persons wounded."

The King sent Dursun Sing a dress of honour with the title of Rajah on the 3rd of March, 1838,
and ordered him to have the fort levelled with the ground. Dursun Sing, in reply, states that
he had men employed in pulling down the fort; and, in reply to an order to send in a list of
the property taken from the besieged, he states, on the 12th of March, 1838, that none whatever
had been secured. Gunga Buksh soon bribed his way out of prison at Lucknow, returned to Kasimgunge,
rebuilt his fort, and made it stronger than ever; and continued to plunder the country, and
increase his landed possessions by the murder of the old proprietors. He became enlisted into
the tribe of Rajpoots, and his sister was married to the Powar Rajah of Etonda, seven coss
north from Lucknow. Jode Sing, the present Rajah of that place, is her son; and he is associated
with Gunga Buksh in his depredations. Sahuj Ram, of Pokhura, of the Ametheea tribe of Rajpoots,
in the Hydergurh purgunna, on the right bank of the Goomtee river, married a daughter of Gunga
Buksh's, and has a strong fort, called Raunee, thirty miles east from Lucknow. He is said to
have been present at the murder of the twenty-nine persons at Dewa in October last, and to
have had with him four hundred armed men and two guns. He and all his followers are notorious
and inveterate robbers, like Gunga Buksh himself. The descendants of Khumma, the village watchman,
have already built ten forts upon the lands which they have seized, and there are no less than
seventy of these forts or strongholds within a circuit of ninety miles round Bhetae and Khasimgunge,
the centre being not more than eighteen miles from the Lucknow cantonments.

The Minister having informed the Resident that, without some aid from British troops, it was
impossible for him to put down or punish these atrocious murderers and robbers, who had so
many mud-forts well garrisoned by their gangs, he, on the 26th of March, 1850, ordered a wing
of the 2nd Battalion of Oude Local Infantry under Captain Boileau to join the force, consisting
of, 1. A wing of the 2nd Oude Local Infantry; 2. Captain Barlow's regiment, with two nine-pounders
and one eight-inch howitzer; 3. Nawab Allee's auxiliaries, two thousand men and three small
guns; 4. Sufshikum Khan, the Amil of the district, with one thousand men and five guns; 5.
Seoraj-od Deen, the Amil of Ramnuggur, with one hundred and fifty men and two guns; 6. Ghalib
Jung, with one thousand foot soldiers, forty camel jinjals (tumbooraks), seven guns, and one
hundred troopers, in an attack upon Kasimgunge. The different parts of this force had been
so disposed as to concentrate upon and invest the fort at daybreak on the morning of that day.
The surprise was complete.

Shells were thrown into the fort from Captain Barlow's guns, but Captain Boileau did not consider
the force sufficient to take the fort and secure, the garrison, and wrote to request a reinforcement.
The distance from Kasimgunge to the cantonments was twenty miles. A wing of the 10th Regiment
Native Infantry, with two guns, was sent off under Captain Wilson; but the garrison had evacuated
the fort and fled on the night of the 26th, and the wing was ordered to proceed direct to the
fort of Bhetae, four miles nearer to the cantonments, which was to be invested by the same
force on the morning of the 28th.

Captain Wilson had with him Lieutenant Elderton, as adjutant of the wing, and Ensigns Trenchard
and Wish, with a native officer in charge of the two guns. They reached Bhetae at 7 A.M., were
joined by the Bhetae force at 8 A.M., and the two forts of Bhetae and Munmutpore were forthwith
invested. Munmutpore stood about three hundred yards to the west of Bhetae; and both forts
were held by Thakur Purshad and Bhugwunt Sing, members of the same family of pansee robbers,
and their gangs. Captain Wilson was the chief in command; and he, with his own and Captain
Boileau's wing, took up his position on the north side of Bhetae, and placed Captain Barlow
on the west side of Munmutpore. There was a deep dry ditch all round outside the outer wall,
and a thick fence of bamboos inside. Between this fence and the citadel in both forts was a
still deeper ditch. Between the fence of bamboos and the inner ditch was a small intricate
passage, intersected by huts and trenches.

The wall of the citadel was about twenty feet high, and the upper part formed a parapet eight
feet high, filled with loopholes for matchlocks. Between Bhetae and Munmutpore, midway, was
a large bastion filled with matchlock-men, to keep open the communication and prevent an enemy
from taking up any position between the two forts. The investing force was distributed all
round, with orders to attack the nearest and weakest points as soon as Captain Wilson should
commence his upon the main point, the northern face.

On the afternoon of the 29th, about half-past three, a small party of the garrison came out
of the gate on the northern face, and appeared disposed to attack Captain Wilson's two nine-pounders,
and a third gun, which had all three been advanced on to within a short distance of the gate.
During this time Captain Barlow was throwing shells into both forts from his position to the
west of Munmutpore. The subahdar- major had command of the advanced party in charge of Captain
Wilson's three guns. He charged and drove back into the fort the small party which threatened
his guns, and Captain Wilson hastily assembled all his and Captain Boileau's force, and followed
to support the subahdar-major. Finding his officers and men all excited and anxious to push
on into the fort, Captain Wilson unfortunately yielded to the impulse, and entered the outer
gate with one of his two nine- pounders, in the hope of taking the place by a coup-de-main.

The garrison all retired into the citadel as he entered, and kept up a distressing fire upon
the assailants as they went along the narrow passage between the bamboo fence and the ditch
in search of a way into the citadel. Several rounds were fired from the gun, in the hope of
making a breach in the wall, but the balls penetrated and lodged midway in the wall, without
bringing down any part of it; and musketry was altogether useless against a thick parapet with
loopholes, so slender on the outside and so wide within. The huts, which might have sheltered
officers and men, were set fire to by accident, and tended to increase the confusion. The entrance
to the citadel was over a narrow mud causeway, which the garrison had not had time to remove;
but it was hidden from the assailants by a projection which they could not attain, and the
men began to fall fast before the fire from the loopholes of the parapet.

