Newgate, September 29, 17--.--Got up with the assistance of my valet, and held my customary
levée. The Governor of the place asked my permission to enter my luxuriously furnished apartments,
to show me an amusing set of irons that had been discovered in one of the cells used during
the last two hundred years for the storage of fire-wood. The droll things were called the "Little
Ease," and seemingly, were intended to create merriment. One of the officers was complacent
enough to assume them, and caused great diversion by his eccentric gestures. My levée was not
quite so successful, as is generally the case, as that tedious old gossip, GUIDO FAUX, obtained
admission. As usual he had a grievance. It appears that a report has got abroad that he was
executed in the days of our late lamented Monarch, JAMES THE FIRST of Great Britain, and SIXTH
of Scotland. Says GUIDO, "If this be believed by the multitude there will be a demand for my
expulsion, and what shall I do if I be turned out?" Condoled with him, and escaped his importunities
by joining with Master JOHN SHEPPARD, and Squire TURPIN in a game of "Lorne Ten Hys," a recreation
recently introduced by my good neighbour Monsieur CLAUDE DU VAL. Failed in making a goal, and
put out thereat. However, regained my usual flow of spirits on receiving a polite request from
the Governor to join him and his good Dame in a visit to the Tower of London, to call upon
Lady JANE GREY--once Queen--and now a guest in that admirable institution. Was graciously received
by Her Ladyship, who is now of advanced age. Her Ladyship was vastly amused at the news that
had reached her that some chroniclers do insist that she has lost her head. "I have in good
sooth lost my teeth," laughed the venerable gentlewoman "but my head is as firmly set upon
my shoulders as ever. I do verily believe that it must be some mad piece of waggery of that
Prince of good fellows, Sir WALTER RALEIGH. The aged Knight is always up to some of his nonsense!"
After playing a game of quoits with Lord BALMARINO and the Tower Headsman (whose office is
a well-paid sinecure), I returned to Newgate, greatly pleased with my morning's promenade.
In the afternoon, entertained the Governor at dinner, who declared that he could never get
so good a meal in his own quarters. "Strap me, no!" I exclaimed: "and, were it not that our
food was excellent, who would stay at Newgate?" For I confess that, although there are pleasure-gardens,
and every sort of amusement and comfort, Newgate, at times, is decidedly damp. Then I raised
a glass of punch to my lips, and wished him the same luck that I myself enjoyed. "And that
I had!" quoth he. "Would I were prisoner instead of Governor. But it would not be meet. I am
not a man of sufficient quality!" And now I must bring this entry to a conclusion, for there
is to be a theatrical performance in the dining-hall. Little DAVID GARRICK is to play the principal
male character, while Mistress NELLIE GWYNE, Mistress SIDDONS, and Mistress PEG WOFFINGTON,
are also in the cast. The title of the piece is Hamlet, and I am told it is written by a young
man new to Town. The name of the author is either SHAKSPEARE or SMITH. I am not sure which,
but think SMITH.

       *       *       *       *       *

P.S.--Open my Diary once again. Hamlet a poor piece. It is now said that it was written by
BACON or BUCHANAN. Of the former I know nothing, and posterity must discover the identity of
the latter. For the rest, if again I am pressed to go to the Play--strap me! but, comfortable
as I am, I will pack up my traps, and be off from Newgate--for ever!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REAL GRIEVANCE OFFICE.

(BEFORE MR. COMMISSIONER PUNCH.)

A SHAREHOLDER IN A GAS COMPANY INTRODUCED.

The Commissioner (sharply). Well, Sir, what is it?

Shareholder. I have come to complain about the Gas Companies--

The Com. I am not surprised. They are generally causing some one or other trouble.

Shareh. No, I beg your pardon, Sir, but you misunderstand me. I am interested in the prosperity
of Gas Companies--

The Com. Then I pity you, for they are certain, sooner or later, to be superseded by the Electric
Light.

Shareh. Will you allow me to continue? I am annoyed that some one has been complaining in the
Times that "A Chief of a Rental Department" (invariably a person of the highest respectability)
has a right to the title of "an arbitrary cove!"

The Com. No doubt someone (who showed his wisdom in appealing to so powerful a tribunal) gave
his reasons?

Shareh. Well, yes; he certainly had been served with a demand to pay £1 4s. 10d. within three
days, to "prevent the necessity" of the gas supply to his premises being discontinued at a
time when he and his family were out of Town, and his house was closed for the recess.

The Com. Primâ facie, that seems a strong order! And I suppose the complainant wrote to the
Gas Company, and got no redress?

Shareh. Well, yes. But then, you see, this demand for payment within three days may have been
a final notice.

The Com. (drily). Seems to have been very final indeed! Was there anything on the face of the
notice to distinguish it from an ordinary unstamped circular?

Shareh. No, I believe not. But, then, possibly, the account had been submitted to him before.

The Com. How do you know? Speaking from my own experience, a demand-note is generally left
at the house when the master is away, and the Collector does not take the slightest trouble
to collect the money. He leaves it to chance whether the money is sent or not. Surely you must
know that in your character of a householder?

Shareh. Well, yes; I fancy that the collector does sometimes act in a very perfunctory manner.

The Com. And that servants frequently are unable to distinguish between the open circular of
a Gas Company asking for the settlement of an account, and the open circular of a touting coal
merchant asking for custom? And when this happens, both find a home in the dust-hole. Is not
that so?

Shareh. Well, yes--very likely--but the law is--

The Com. (sternly). The Law and its name should not be lightly taken in vain. I have seen on
a Gas Company's circular the terrors of a statute invoked to secure prompt payment of a few
shillings! After all, the Gas Companies (albeit monopolists) are merely traders, and the Public
are the customers. If a butcher, a baker, or a candle-stick maker invariably attempted to secure
immediate payment by reference on the invoice to the usefulness of the County Court, it is
more than possible that that butcher, that baker, or that candle-stick maker, would speedily
have to retire from business viâ the Bankruptcy column of The London Gazette. Thus Gas Companies,
who adopt a like unpleasant tone, are regarded as the natural enemies of the Public generally.
You have a grievance--as a shareholder of one of these Associations--but this is not the place
to obtain redress. If you want to improve your position, keep your eye upon your employés,
and teach them the meaning of that well-worn phrase, Suaviter in modo, fortiter in re! You may go!

       *       *       *       *       *